CHAPTER I.

HUNTER S LODGE.

"When sorrows come, they come not single spies,
But in battalions."

Shakespeare.

A still night in the end of March, wherein the crisp
air was tempered by the faint perfume which a recent
rainfall had drawn forth from the early spring blossoms
and the newly upturned earth. This shower had not
only freshened the budding trees, but it had effectually
laid low the dust, which for weeks past had
powdered alike every hedgerow and tussock in the
village of Blythe, and taken away for the nonce the
palm for bright delicate spring tints and emerald
green turf, which had been for years past conceded
to this charming nook of East Yorkshire.

The night was wearing on, and it was strange at
this season to see the mistress of Hunter's Lodge pace

VOL. I. A

up and down the gravel walk in front of the house,
and occasionally pass through the broad barred gate
which opened upon the road, and look about her
anxiously in the direction of the county-town of
Yarnee, from whence, it was evident, she was in expectation
for somebody who ought to come. Usually
this lady was of a quiet imperturbable nature, and
seldom demonstrative for either joy or sorrow. Her
experience of life hitherto had been such, that to take
the rough with the smooth was (if not always the
wiser), for her, the more expedient plan.

When much aggravated or disturbed, Mrs Leppell 
ox-eyed as Juno  would open her splendid orbs to
their fullest extent, and fix them with a scintillating
light, which, together with the working of her exquisitely
curved nostrils, served not only to make her look
handsomer than she really was, but also to convince
the beholder that fire did exist beneath, not the
ice, but the india-rubber, so to speak, of her composition.


A hesitation of speech and a certain timidity, which
were inseparable to her, had ever restrained this lady
from overstepping the bounds of conventionalism, and
a natural indolence of disposition sometimes did duty
for long-suffering and forbearance.

A more sensitive woman in Mrs Leppell's position
would have been not only miserable herself, but most
probably would at the same time have been the cause
of much suffering to others ; and a more spirited
woman would have murdered Colonel Leppell (her

husband), or have been herself speedily and violently
extinguished by that irascible gentleman.

Here, then, was the right woman in the right place :
and on this night the March wind had tempered itself
undeniably to this shorn lamb ; for she was wellnigh
overwhelmed with trouble, and her only alleviation
under its burden was to go forth into the silent garden,
and there in the soothing air commune with her
troubled spirit, and think out what was best to be
done, how best to break the news to her husband
when he should come  and such news !

She pulled her warm knitted shawl closely round
her, and then turned and looked up at the windows
of the Lodge. Her nursery children had long been
asleep ; only here and there did a light now shine out
into the darkness. At one particular casement Mrs
Leppell looked intensely.

"Mary ought to be undressed by this time," she
said to herself. " I sent her to her room early : her
father may want to get speech of her at once, but he
will never have the child called out of her bed at this
time of night. Yet, he is so inconsiderate, so regardless
of others "

The sudden extinction of the candle in that particular
room put an end to Mrs Leppell's ruminations,
and a feeling of satisfaction brightened her face.
Mary is safe in bed  that's a comfort," she whispered.
And then she turned her eyes in the direction of a
bow-windowed apartment, on the ground-floor, at the
extreme end of the building,  this was her mother's,

Lady Asher's, room,  and from thence, between the
openings of the window-curtains, Mrs Leppell descried
the glimmer of a lamp, and wondered why the old
lady had not retired to rest.

Another glance, and she interpreted matters aright.
"That is Prothero's lamp: Prothero has seen that
something is amiss, although she has made no remark.
It is as well that she should be up, though I do not
know why I should think so ; but still, it is as well.
Yes ; it is possible that she may be wanted, so I won't
interfere with her now."

Prothero was Lady Asher's maid. Her mistress
and this attendant lived at Hunter's Lodge as part of
its regular household, bearing much for Mrs Leppell's
sake, and enduring much for the dear memory's sake
of honest Gilbert Asher, whose only daughter Adelaide
was the wife of the Honourable Colonel Ralph Leppell.

Satisfying herself that Prothero was at hand, quietly
and unobtrusively on the watch maybe (for there had
been occasions whereon the powerful aid and discreet
bearing of that handmaiden had been of infinite service
to the wife when Colonel Leppell returned "lively "
from a convivial dinner-party or a hunt-supper at
the town of Yarnee, or from some place in the county),
Mrs Leppell betook herself to the garden gate.

She had scarcely leaned over it ten minutes when
she found herself counting the strokes of the great
clock of Yarnee Cathedral, as it tolled out the eleventh
hour of the night. The air was so still that the sound
seemed to carry itself almost in a direct line towards

Blythe ; but the nerves of the watcher were strung to
their utmost tension, and as every sense was in consequence
painfully on the alert, the warning of the
clock fell with unwonted distinctness on her ear.

Eleven o'clock ! " she exclaimed aloud as the chime
ceased ; " he cannot be long now."

Then she fell to wondering if her husband had
stayed in Yarnee to dine at the militia mess, or if he
had been to his office in Eed Lion Square, whereat he
transacted his business as staff-officer of pensioners,
and secured his letters, together with a visiting-card,
which she knew awaited him there ; or had he travelled
straight from London, where he had been for ten
days, and, finding it late, had just got his horse at the
hotel and ridden home ? She hoped he had taken the
latter course, for it was her desire to speak with him,
before stern accurate correspondence should acquaint
him that disgrace, and possibly utter ruin, had befallen
his name.

Sometimes the Colonel takes it into his head to
walk home from Yarnee by the short cut upon the
river bank," thought she ; " but he is not likely to do
this, I should think, for the path by the Yar is not
quite safe even in daylight. No, no ; he will never do
so foolish a thing as that."

A clang of horse-hoofs advancing at a rapid trot
caused Mrs Leppell to pass out into the road and
stand there. A horseman soon appeared in sight. Ashe
approached near enough to be recognised, she
called out 

Ralph !  Colonel Leppell, is that you ? "

Yes. What do you want ? " answered a loud voice.
Why, Adelaide ! what in the name of fortune brings
you out here ? "

"Never mind now; I am so glad you have come
home," she answered. " Don't stop at the stable gates ;
come forward here, where I stand."

Colonel Leppell dismounted in the road, and drawing
the bridle through his arm, walked towards his
wife. "Good gracious, Adelaide!" he said, in an
alarmed tone, " are the grooms all gone ? you can't
take the horse. Why am I not to halt at the stable
gate ? and why the deuce are you waiting in the road
at this time of night ? "

I want to see you, to speak to you before any one
else does," she replied. " I was afraid you would goto
your den at the stables, and lie down on the sofa
there, and fall fast asleep as you so often do. Come
into the house at once ; Ben is sitting up by the
kitchen fire waiting to take the horse. I have news
for you, Ralph, and we must be alone when I tell it."

She had satisfied herself, by his manner, that her
husband had not secured the letters which were awaiting
him at his office : her conjecture was correct,  he
had travelled from London, left his portmanteau at
the station, and had ridden straight home.

Again she spoke. " Knock at the shutter of the
kitchen window, and when Ben comes out, follow me
to the hall door, where I will wait. Bring the horse
through the front gate ; Ben is expecting you."

She spoke with a tone of decision so unusual to her,
that the Colonel looked at her in some perplexity and
wondered what he should do. It was so new to him to
be ordered by her, to find plans for his guidance so
readily arranged, that surprise chained his tongue ;
so they passed through the garden gate in silence. He,
doing as he had been directed, made for the kitchen
window  his wife, meanwhile, wending her way
towards the steps of the hall door.

Her face was very pale, but she was quite calm as she
found herself confronted with the disagreeable, painful
task before her. There was no evading or putting
off this duty : her husband had arrived, and now she
had to tell him strange things of Marmaduke, their
eldest and their favourite son.

A son much treasured, for a fell fever had carried
off two boys who were born to them in the first years
of their married life, and so " Duke," as he was called,
was precious in his parents' sight.

Come in, and please bolt the door," Mrs Leppell
said, as the Colonel joined her. " There is supper laid
for you in the morning-room, and I've had a good fire ;
you must be both hungry and tired, and it is very
chilly now."

I know what you have to tell me," said the Colonel,
savagely, as they entered the little room ; " there's no
use in trying to awe me with these solemn airs of
preparation : I see through it all. That young devil
Dick has been riding the bay mare contrary to my
express orders, and has let her go down,  that's all

about it. I'll thrash the life out of him, the young
scoundrel ! "

You are wrong," his wife answered. " Do not indulge
in your habit of jumping at conclusions : this is
no question of Dick ; now don't bluster,  it is a much
more serious matter, for it is a question of Duke."

Duke ! " cried the father, now thoroughly alarmed,
what of him ? don't look like that. I know : he has
ridden the Bashan steeplechase and has been  no,
no, the boy is too good a rider  say it out, Adelaide ;
the lad  Duke is  is killed."

No, no, Ralph ; listen patiently. Duke is unharmed
and well as far as bodily health is concerned, but he is
in hiding: an officer of the Court of Chancery was
here yesterday making inquiries about him. Oh, I
was so thankful to be able to say with truth that the
lad has not been here for months past."

Chancery ! what has Duke to do with Chancery ?
He has not stolen any of their money, has he ? what
do you mean ? "

He has not stolen any Chancery money," Mrs Lep-
pell replied, " but he has carried off a ward of that
court. In plain English, he ran away last week with
an heiress from a boarding-school at Wisgate, who is
a ward of Chancery. This offence is actionable, and
renders him liable to imprisonment."

Duke is a minor," interposed Colonel Leppell, " and
very likely does not know that he has committed any
offence against the law."

So I said to the officer, but it appears that ignorance

of the law is not admitted as any excuse for the
infringement of it. Duke is turned twenty, and ought
to know what he is about. Just look at the amount
of money which has been spent on his education ! "

Who is the girl ? " inquired the Colonel briskly.

A Miss Lorton, an orphan : her father made a
large fortune as a manufacturer of tin-ware baths, at
a suburb near Dublin, I believe. She was placed, at
his death, under the care of two ladies, distant relatives,
who keep a first-class school at Wisgate, not far
from Dublin. How Duke first came to make her
acquaintance is not known."

"At any rate, Miss Lorton was not carried off by
force," replied the Colonel exultingly ; " of course not.
The girl was, no doubt, a consenting  party, there can
be no doubt of it : a handsome young fellow like
Duke is not to be sneezed at, and his connection is
a great one for mere tradespeople. Did they get
married ? "

The officer was not sure of this ; but he seemed to
entertain the idea that some ceremony might have
been gone through at a registrar office. However,
they were pursued and overtaken at Dieppe, and the
girl was returned to Wisgate, there to await the Chancellor's
pleasure. Duke managed to escape, and the
authorities naturally assumed that he was hiding in
this county."
Is that all ? "

Unfortunately no : Duke is charged with embezzling
money under false pretences by a firm in Liverpool.

Writs are out against him ; the Sheriffs officer
was here yesterday morning, and I had to hear and
bear it all," the poor mother said. "The man was
very good : he had inquired for you at Yarnee, and
finding that you were in London, came straight here
for your address. He said that he would keep the
matter quiet, and intimated that it was possible that
some arrangement might be made ; in fact, he seemed
to say that something might be done out of respect to
my family, and mentioned that the merchant who had
suffered this fraud knew my late father, and held him
in much esteem. It was only at the last moment that
it was discovered by the head partner of the firm that
Duke was the grandson of Gilbert Asher,  too late,
however, to stop the issue of the writ."

Out of respect to your family, madam ! " thundered
Colonel Leppell, his face crimson with indignation ;
this is the first time I have heard that you have any
family to boast of  a set of cotton bags. I should
think the family of Lord Hieover would be nearer the
mark. Duke being the grandson of Viscount Hieover,
and the eldest son of the Honourable Colonel Leppell,
should carry weight, I rather think, eh ? "

In this case not, rather to the contrary," Mrs
Leppell answered, without the least shade of annoyance
at the contemptuous mention made by her husband
with regard to her own antecedents. " The
respect is for good name, and the memory of an upright
man. Knowing that my mother has sacrificed
more than half her income to assist you, I wonder at

your speaking as you do. Let that pass : you have
mentioned Lord Hieover ; an application has already
been made to him from the Court of Chancery to
know if he can supply any information regarding
Duke."

Well, what did he say ? "

His lordship's answer, it appears, was curt enough.
He knew nothing of the young scamp, nor did he
want to know anything, and, moreover, he was resolved
never to know anything about him. Let him dare to
set his foot in Hieover Grange, the Viscount knew how
to make that residence too hot to hold Mr Leppell.
Your father, in fact, entirely disclaimed and disowned
him."

The Colonel looked rather aghast at this news.
What is to be done ? " he inquired at length. " /
can't assist him. I knew he was dipped, but I cannot
think that my father would throw him over in that
fashion. For the sake of keeping the thing quiet  for
this covers the whole family with shame  his lordship
must come forward. I'll go over and see him tomorrow.
It's that sneaking hound Alex, who is in the
way : by Jove ! though, I'm not the man to allow my
brother to oust my son. Not likely ! "

Your brother is from home, at Wurstede ; he had
nothing to do with this : you are always inclined to
judge Alex, harshly," Mrs Leppell made reply.

Well, then, if it were not for Duke, I would cut
the Viscount dead, though he is my own father. What
business had he to insist upon Duke joining the

Royal Goldspinners, if he did not mean to help him
at a pinch ? "

"You know, Ralph, when your father paid all
Duke's expenses, only two years ago, and presented
him with a handsome sum over and above that, he told
us all to understand clearly that he would do nothing
more. I don't suppose that Lord Hieover will even now
withdraw the annual allowance he makes to Duke."

I don't know," replied Colonel Leppell ; " it would
be just like him if he did : he will be only too glad of
an excuse. The idea of his disowning Duke ! it's disgusting
 bad form."

You must remember, though it is sad to say it,
Duke is in disgrace, charged with embezzling money ;
so, if that comes to your father's ears, the chances are
that Lord Hieover will disclaim the whole of us. As
yet, your father is cognisant of the elopement business
only ; and he was naturally very much annoyed
at an officer of the Court of Chancery going to
Hieover to seek Duke. It did transpire there that
our son was deeply in debt, but there was no mention
made, of course, of the more serious charge ; that was
the business of the Sheriff's officer."

Haw ! the writ is the awkward part, and the
accusation of fraudulency : it is dreadful to think of.
Oh, how could he ? how could Duke act in such a
manner ? he has never thought of me ; what could have
bewitched the lad ? But did you not say that this
wretched business might be arranged ? I cannot see
how."

She was silent for a moment : her magnificent
eyes dilated, but not in anger ; the working and
twitching of the lines about her mouth evinced
nervousness not unmixed with dread. The slight
hesitation in her speech was increased to a painful
extent as these words dropped from her pale lips 

There  there is one person in the  the world who
is able and  and quite will  willing to save our
honour, Ralph. Don't be violent  don't, do not be
angry. I could not help it, Ralph."

You are hard hit, Adelaide," said her husband
more kindly,  " very hard hit, and I don't wonder.
Here, take a glass of wine ; " and the Colonel as he
spoke poured out some sherry and carried it round to
where Mrs Leppell sat, and placed the glass in her hand.

He heard her teeth rattle against the edge of the
glass as she swallowed the wine, and marked her
tremble with a cold shiver as she drew her shawl
close around her. As she did not speak, Colonel
Leppell thought to assist her with a leading question.

Who is going to help us, did you say ? not your
mother,  not Lady Asher, surely ? "

No, no ; she has done enough," replied Mrs Leppell,
finding voice ; " she cannot, even if she would. You
have had all till her death, and you are not so wicked
as to wish for that."

Xo ; let the old woman live as long as she likes,"
returned the Colonel, patronisingly ; " she has often
helped me, and I don't want to deny it. But who is
going to come forward now ? "

"One who owes you neither honour nor justice, not
common consideration even. Many years have passed
away since we both agreed never to name, never to
allude to him : time works strange marvels ! Don't 
don't be violent; I must name him now,  Everard
Glascott."

Glascott ! " gasped the Colonel, sinking back on his
chair as if he had been shot.

Yes," she answered resolutely, seeing that for the
moment she had some advantage ; " Everard Glascott,
noble heart, overlooking all, forgiving all, has come
forward, and for my father's sake,  yes, and I dare
to say it, for my sake also,  he will save the honour
of our son."

These words seemed to inspire her with courage, for
now Mrs Leppell looked her husband steadily in the
face, and her speech no longer hesitated ; she was now
calm and resolute.

"Has he written to you?" inquired the Colonel,
rising to his feet and drawing a deep breath. " What
has he to do with all this ? "

He has written to you, and he has seen me this
day in this room. I wonder I did not drop down and
die for shame. He will save Duke, save exposure,
arrange all ; but, Ralph, there is a price to be paid for
all this, and you must consent to pay it. Wait,  I am
breathless,  that price is  is Mary."

Mrs Leppell uttered the last word with a great
effort, and then remained like one who expects a
raging storm to break forth.

Never ! "  and here Colonel Leppell swore an awful
oath,  "never ! What ! give Mary to him  my beautiful
girl  my heavenly Moll ! He, Mr Glascott, forgets that
he is ten years older than you and I ; he is fifty-eight
years of age : it's wicked, it's monstrous. Give her to
him ! does he think that because he was disappointed of
the mother, he is to be repaid with the daughter ? "

Stop ! be quiet and don't run on so," cried Mrs
Leppell, putting up her hand with a deprecatory gesture.
" It is not as you think ; our daughter is not to
be sold to Mr Glascott  nothing of the kind. His
young cousin, Francis Clavering, met Mary at the
Chichester last Christmas, and became desperately
enamoured of her ; since that they have met here and
there in the county."

What brought him into Yarneshire ? "

"Mr Clavering is making some researches in the
neighbourhood for the Geological Society, and so had
brought several letters of introduction to various
people in the town and county," Mrs Leppell replied.

Has he made any proposals ? does Moll allow his
attention ? "

No proposals have been made by Mr Clavering ;
and it is not likely that a girl would speak of a man's
attentions until she is sure that he means something
more than mere acquaintance. The truth is, that Mr
Clavering, knowing of Mr Glascott's strong objection
to you and to your connection, has been cautious in
making advances till he could induce his guardian to
give some kind of countenance to his suit. After

seeing Mary, it appears young Clavering went to
Paris, and vainly, in spite of entreaty and persuasion,
sought to soften Mr Glascott. All he could do
then was to promise to make no proposals until Mr
Glascott should see Mary himself, without her knowing
it."

Has he done so ? " asked the Colonel, with a
lowering aspect.

Yes ; there was a ball at Frodsham,  you took
Mary yourself, you'll remember. Mr Glascott sat in
the gallery which was erected for the spectators ; he
saw the child, and speedily went his way. Like all
the world, he was charmed with her beauty and
her grace ; but he still could not make up his mind
to consent to Mr Clavering seeking an alliance with
her, his hatred towards the Hieover race was so
strong."

Clavering, Clavering,  it strikes me I have met
the man," said Colonel Leppell suddenly. "Yes, he
dined at Hieover Grange just after the New Year.
He is one of the literati, or illuminati, or gnostic, or
something. He goes lecturing about the country, and
somebody said he was going to be made a professor of
I forget what. He does not hunt, though ; I wonder
how he got introduced at Hieover."

I don't know, but his society is sought everywhere.
He is one of the brilliant rising men of the day. He
went to Hieover as a member of the Geological
Society possibly."

Has he any money ? that's the point."

I believe but little of his own at present. He is,
however, Mr Glascott's heir, and the only son of a
first cousin. Xow, listen : for love of this young man
(for Mr Glascott regards him as his son), Everard will
not only forego his enmity against you, but he will
immediately have the writs withdrawn which are out
from the Liverpool Bank against Duke "

Can he do this ? is this in his power ? " interrupted
Colonel Leppell.

It is in his power, seeing that Mr Glascott is a
sleeping partner in the firm, and has the largest interest
in it."

"Curious, by Jove!" exclaimed the Colonel ; "but
what brought Mr Glascott out here ? "

The fact of your being absent from Yarnee. He
called at your office yesterday, and, to save time, finding
that you were in London, he came here in a close
carriage, and asked to see me. His revenge has been
noble."

Yes," answered the Colonel slowly ; " but his aid
is a bitter pill for me to swallow. Oh, Duke, what
have you done ? to have to bend, through you, to the
man I hate, and who must hate me ! "

The injured are ever the first to forgive," returned
Mrs Leppell. " Everard's life since the day we parted
has been devoted to others. Self-sacrifice is a great
softener. This Francis Clavering, and his sister,
Willina, have been for years the objects of his love
and solicitude ; he tells me that a parent's love could
not be stronger than is his for these young people."

VOL. I. B

Are there any more of these Claverings ? "

No ; these two are the eldest and the youngest of
a large family. Miss Clavering is nearly eighteen ;
the brother is twenty-four."

"The man I met looks older than that. I don't
like the whole thing. Mary must have given him
some encouragement ; it cannot be otherwise, or why
should Mr Clavering think it necessary to entreat
Mr Glascott to overcome his scruples, and consent to
his proposing for Mary as a favour. A girl, too, who
might command a coronet : it is absurd."

People view things in a different light," Mrs Lep-
pell said. " You know, you have given out that no
one without money is to come near your daughters :
recollect, too, you withdrew your consent, after giving
it in writing, to Henrietta's engagement to Captain
Asserter ; the consequence was, that they married
without leave. You may not think it, but these
things tell very seriously. No wonder that Mr Clavering
was anxious to obtain his cousin's consent ;
without that, there would be no money wherewith to
dower your daughter."

As the matter stands, is Glascott prepared to pay
down a proper sum in the event of Clavering being
accepted ? "

He told me," answered Mrs Leppell, " that if
Mary becomes the wife of Mr Clavering, by her own
consent, given in writing, he will make over his small
estate in Lancashire immediately, and settle an adequate
sum on his cousin, putting all out of his own

power to retract or disannul. It seems Mr Clavering
is in a fair way to make a good income soon by
his own talents ; he is a man who loves hard work,
and he has had a brilliant education."

It is a handsome offer certainly," said the Colonel
after a pause ; " but it goes against the grain, I tell
you  confoundedly against the grain. If it were not
for Duke "

Mr Glascott proposes to act with more than ordinary
delicacy in the matter' interrupted Mrs Lep-
pell ; " for, being convinced that you would refuse
anything in the shape of a settlement coming from
him, he intends to convey the estate of Tring absolutely
to his cousin ; the money present is, I think, to
take the form of an allowance. The payment of
Duke's liabilities will be made in memory of the
generosity of my father, who, as Mr Glascott reminded
me, was the person through whose influence he was
placed in the position which has led to his making
the ample fortune which he now enjoys."

And he does all this for gratitude, and for nothing-more
? " said the Colonel suspiciously.

He does," the wife answered steadily. " Disappointed
of his own heart's desire, Everard Glascott
will not stand in the way of another man's love, nor
cast a blight upon the prospects of a younger man's
life. Firm in this, and strong in good purpose, he
sought you out ; strong also in his respect for me," 
and here the colour mounted in Mrs Leppell's face, 
with reverence for my position as a wife and mother >

he came under this roof to-day. He greeted me asa
grey-haired old man, ten years my senior  generously
using the age with which you were wont to
taunt him as the halo by virtue of which he could
enter our home and seek speech of me. He came,
moreover, to save our son, and to make reconciliation
with  with you."

Did either your mother or ' Botheroo ' see him ? "
Colonel Leppell always spoke of Prothero as Botheroo ;
it was his weak way of showing how much he disliked
his mother-in-law's maid.

No ; my mother was out in her donkey-chair, and
Prothero was with her, of course. Little Arthur was
the only child with me in the drawing-room, when
Mr Glascott's card was brought in."

You have promised nothing, then ? "

Nothing ; I have waited to see you."

He, Mr Glascott, has written to me, you say ? "
inquired the Colonel, raking the fire.

He was to write to you from the Eed Lion Hotel,
where he is now staying : Mr Clavering joins him
there tomorrow. The latter will either call upon
you, or write to you proposing for Mary, as soon as
possible, on his arrival at Yarnee."

I don't like this  I don't like it at all : there must
be some understanding between Mr Clavering and
Moll, or how could things come to fall into this
arrangement ? It is too late to-night, or I would have
Mary down and question her."

"Do nothing of the kind," enjoined Mrs Leppell;

wait till the letters come, and don't tease Mary. It
would be so unwise, Ralph, to force the child into a
confession of even a preference for Mr Clavering. She
will naturally resent the imputation, and it would set
her against the match. Be careful : as far as I know,
she has no particular liking for any one ; now if you
set her against the Clavering suit, what becomes of
Duke ? "

This little bit of diplomacy had its effect. The
Colonel showed, and tossed and rattled the fire-irons.
He could find no way out of this dilemma ; and so
he easily promised Mrs Leppell to be silent on the
subject with their daughter, till a more convenient
season, at all events. Then the Colonel flung out of
the room, calling back to his wife that she had better
come to bed, for there was no use in sitting up there
all night.

She rose up to follow him, but a shaking of her
limbs, and a tremor that pervaded her whole frame,
caused her to slide down to the floor. Raising herself,
by a strong effort, to her knees, she drew herself
along, and laid her head upon the table. There the
pent-up waters of her grief burst forth, and she wept
and sobbed, as she had never done since her boys lay
dead upon their nursery beds when her married years
were few.

It has all come together, so much at once," she
cried, raising her head, and turning round as the
faithful voice of the waiting-maid fell on her ear. " It
is too much, Prothero ; let me  let me have my cry

out, or my heart will break. Duke ! Duke ! and
Mary  oh! I can tell no more. Prothero, stay by
me ; I shall be the better for weeping, sorrow has
made me numb so long,  so long."

Yes, yes, cry on, dear," said the maid soothingly ;
don't mind me. I understand it all,  Duke and the
debts ; and the Colonel so unreasonable  so very hard
to manage. I saw the Sheriffs officer and guessed
there was some trouble, but I thought it wiser not tolet
on that I suspected anything. I suppose Duke is
more dipped than ever, and the family won't pay."

Yes, yes, that is it," answered the poor lady between
her sobs  in her agony still shielding her
erring child from the graver fact ; " it may be put
right, but this is his greatest difficulty." '

Never dwell upon it," returned the attendant ;
perhaps, after all, Lord Hieover will help for your
sake ; he is fond of you." And so Mrs Leppell was
soothed by degrees, till at length, utterly worn out and
prostrate, she lay on the sofa in deep sleep, and
Prothero watched over her there till the morning
broke.

CHAPTEE II.

Hygeia.

The cold shimmer which precedes the dawn in its
time pervaded the room in which Mrs Leppell was
laid, sleeping the sleep of exhaustion. It warned the
faithful watcher to cover her charge more closely, and
to bethink herself also how best to act for the coming
hours,  for Prothero knew full well that the dwellers
in Hunter's Lodge, stimulated by the presence of its
master, would all be early astir. Certain she also
was that the weighty trouble which had so prostrated
Mrs Leppell would break out in much irritation
and complaint on the part of the Colonel
against everything and everybody that came in his
way.

It was the habit of that officer to throw off his own
annoyances by afflicting the spirits of all with whom
he happened to come in contact, and Prothero's long
experience, added to the little which she had discovered
on the previous night, convinced her that something
more weighty than even debts, duns, or the withdrawal

of Lord Hieover's countenance, was looming over the
family.

Come what may," communed this faithful servitor,
it is my duty to look after the ladies and the dear
children : the Colonel and Duke are a pair, and they
are quite able to fight their own battles."

Thus ruminating, Prothero rose, and having satisfied
herself that her mistress still slept, she crept to
Lady Asher's chamber. Finding all as usual there,
she hurried to a small room on the ground-floor which
was appropriated to chance visitors, lighted a fire, and
arranged the apartment for the immediate occupation
of Mrs Leppell.

This done, Prothero ascended the stair-case, valiantly
opened the door of the dormitory which was dedicated
to the heads of the household, and cautiously
looked within.

The Colonel, to her great satisfaction, was snoring lustily,
with his head buried beneath the bed-coverings.

This was the moment in which to seize some articles
necessary for the toilet of Mrs Leppell ; and her maid
at the same time deftly drew the window-curtains
closer, and moved a folding screen some feet nearer to
the bed.

The longer he sleeps, the better for all of us,"
thought Prothero, as she darted from point to point, in
evident fear lest the sleeper should awake suddenly
and surprise her. None knew better than she how
loudly the Colonel would exult should he find her
overstepping the boundary of her own province ; and

though she had lately nursed him through a dangerous
illness, that service would offer no palliation of the
crime of intruding at this time unauthorised on his
slumbers.

It should be stated, to be accurate, that these two
hated the one the other, and the feeling was intensified
on Colonel Leppell's part, because through years
of annoyance, and at times of positive insult, the maid
steadily held to her place, and eventually had come to
know too much of the ways and works of the Leppell
race to be safely dispensed with. Besides, if Prothero
departed, Lady Asher would depart likewise, and the
meaning of that Hegira would be the withdrawal of
four hundred pounds a-year, this being the amount
which her ladyship paid for the accommodation of
herself and maid at Hunter's Lodge.

In addition to this, Prothero could, if she chose,
supply the place of any domestic in the household
who might chance to be summarily dismissed, or elect
to take that leave which is usually denominated
French " ; and transformation-scenes of this nature
were not unfrequent in Colonel Leppell's house. The
woman was devoted to the ladies and to the children,
and she was remarkable for being the one of the
household who, on her own account, stood the least
in awe of Colonel Leppell. Prothero had always carefully
avoided giving her master direct offence, and had
endured her share of abuse from that officer (when
he, in his impartiality, stormed at the family all round)
with the most exemplary imperturbability. This forbearance

was exercised entirely out of affection for
Mrs Leppell, and as it served, in a measure, to alleviate
some portion of the fault - finding which was
not unfrequently directed towards the mistress of the
house, Prothero was, in consequence, much esteemed
by all the denizens of Hunter's Lodge, and the most
unruly of its sons declared that "he would stand a
good deal from old ' Botheroo,' because she didn't care a
rap for the governor, and always stuck up for ma."

A kind of armed neutrality at this time subsisted
between the Colonel and Prothero, her attention during
his late illness having somewhat mollified the
great dislike which he had constantly borne her.
During many years he had designated her " Botheroo,"
and as his boys took up the cry, she had become accustomed
to accept this as her proper cognomen, strong
in the conviction that, were her place vacant, a very
important factor in the Leppell household would be
with difficulty replaced.

Colonel Leppell also chose to give credence to a
little legend with regard to his mother-in-law's attendant,
which he thought to square with her undisguised
disapprobation of his own conduct and that of his
eldest son, Marmaduke.

Prothero's first introduction to the family had been
as lady's-maid to Mrs Leppell in the first years of her
married life. The growing expenses, which demanded
nurses and under-nurses and school fees, had later on
obliged Mrs Leppell to dispense with a purely personal
attendant, and in consequence Prothero was

transferred to Lady Asher, who, being lame, and also
not being very prolific in mental resource, necessarily
required a person of superior education about her who
could act in the capacity of companion as well as
lady's-maid.

On first entering Mrs Leppell's service, Prothero
had been sad and depressed, and, for a young woman,
strangely reserved. It was remarked also that she
never had any ready money, and that she was always
more silent than usual after receiving letters which
bore an American post-mark.

Nothing, however, could be elicited from her except
that her father's home was uncomfortable owing to
the presence of a step-mother, and that in consequence
of this she and her sisters had sought service early.

Her recommendations as to character and efficiency
were of the first order ; and if any trouble weighed on
her mind, she communicated it to no living soul. At
length it leaked out, through one of those channels of
talk of which there is neither finding the beginning
nor the end, that Prothero had married a vagabond
gipsy, and that she paid him a certain sum yearly on
the understanding that he would never come near her.
Anne Prothero was a fairly good-looking woman ; and,
as she persistently declined all the proposals she had
made to her of changing her name, some colour was
thereby given to the report.

The ladies of the Leppell family had never hinted at
this knowledge ; but the Colonel, in one of his fits of
wrath, had come out with this history, by way of

accusing the woman of living under false pretences.
The look which she gave him as he spoke  long, stern,
and defiant  was one which he had never seen directed
towards him by female 1 face; and the tone in which
she denounced him as a " cowardly spy," was such as
to affect even the Colonel's strong nerves, which were
not to be shaken generally by a trifle.

Prothero's portion, however, would have been instant
dismissal had Colonel Leppell been in a position to
afford such retaliation; but there was Lady Asher's
yearly payment to be considered, and the certain
knowledge also that adieu for ever, maid, would be
inevitably adieu for ever, Lady Asher; and, this step
taken, even Adelaide's persuasions would never suffice
to recall her mother as a permanent resident of
Hunter's Lodge.

Some sort of amende honorable was eventually made
through the medium of Mrs Leppell for her husband's
hasty speech ; and the Colonel argued himself into the
belief that the wrongs which Prothero had suffered at
the hands of mankind were the main reason for the
damsel's want of appreciation of himself and of his
eldest son. He was good enough also to remark that,
if his feeling towards the woman sometimes mounted
to actual hostility, he remembered her services, and
concluded to put up with her.

A knock resounded at the door of Colonel Leppell's
room a little before eight o'clock ; this knock was
repeated with the precision and force of a sledgehammer,
and aroused that warrior into fiercely demanding,

" Alio the devil is there ? " and, " Where,
where on earth has Mrs Leppell got to ? "

These inquiries were answered by the appearance
of his groom, who brought a note written in pencil,
which he stuffed into his master's hand. " Mrs Pro-there
gave me this," the lad said, " and you are to read
it directly."

The note contained a few lines written by Mrs Lep-
pell three hours before, stating that, being disturbed
in the night by illness, she had retired to the spare
room, and that, feeling then disposed to sleep, she
begged him to allow her to remain quiet for a few
hours. Mary would attend to the breakfast.

Meanwhile Ben, the groom, after depositing his
master's boots and shaving-water in their respective
places, made for the door, but not before the stentorian
tones of Colonel Leppell's voice recalled him to
attend to orders.

Take Sally and ride into Yarnee for the letters 
or you may as well drive the dogcart and go straight
to the station for my portmanteau ; you will find it in
the parcels office. If you are too early for the mail
delivery, wait at the office till it comes in. Don't go
skylarking about the town, and tell Miss Mary to get
the household assembled for family prayers at a quarter
to nine. Look sharp ! "

Yes, Colonel." The man departed with a grin on
his face, which the mention of family prayers had called
forth.

The erratic devotions at Hunter's Lodge, which were

dignified by the name of family prayers, were unto Mrs
Leppell even as lions in the path. Old Lady Asher
had been present at them once (the institution was of
recent date), and this was the alpha and omega of her
attendance; and Prothero had denounced the whole
thing, as conducted by the Colonel, as being little
short of rank blasphemy, and a decided tempting of
Providence. The children and servants endured the
orations inflicted on them in a semi-martyr and semi-comic
spirit, the great achievement being to preserve a
becoming gravity, and to be careful not to be caught
in the indulgence of any outward and visible sign of
merriment.

The signal for prayers had become interpreted by
the family in general as something being wrong with
the governor; and thus when he descended to the
breakfast-room, he found an uncommonly clear coast,
owing to the stampede which Ben's news had occasioned
among the children. Testaments, however,
were opened, and set with their faces upturned, each
on a file of chairs, which were drawn up with soldierlike
precision at the end of the room ; and a face from
the garden was looking in at the half-opened window,
ready to give the signal when the commanding officer
should appear.

Such a face ! framed with real golden hair ! hair so
bright and silky that it would seem as if Aurora had
massed the sunbeams in her hand and showered them
down to crown the young, whom the ancient story tells
us she ever favoured and ever loved. The clear dark-grey

eyes, which looked violet in some lights, contrasted
well with the delicate yet healthy colouring of the
skin. The clean-cut nostrils and beautiful curve of
the chin could only be rivalled by the small shell-like
ear and the round pillar-like throat. A graceful figure,
elastic and lissome, which was confined in a simple
dress suitable to her years, testified that Mary Leppell
was in the enjoyment of pure good health.

No wonder, that her admirers had toasted her as
heavenly Moll." She might, as she stood there,
have been sculptured as the goddess Hygeia, watching
and waiting to scatter health and beauty on all
the sons and daughters of the earth.

That's right, Moll," the Colonel said, as he spied
her on his entrance into the breakfast-room ; " have
'em all in  make haste, there's a good girl. Where
are those young scamps of boys ? "

"Dick," said the girl, turning round to a boy of
fourteen, who was riding on a fence, " run quick ; the
governor's down."

A rush, a scuffle on the gravel, and Dick, with a
glowing, rosy face, is in the morning-room in a second
of time.

That's right, my boy," said the father ; " glad to
see you so punctual. There will be a blessing upon
you. You know the sons of Aminadab,  or somebody,
 they had a blessing for ever "

Oh, those were the water-drinking parties, pa,"
explained Master Dick.

"Yes; haw, now I remember. I must have been

thinking of the man who prayed punctually for rain,
and  and  got it."

Yes, pa ; but don't you think he deserved more
credit for sticking to his work ? He prayed three
years" said Dick, in a tone of extreme astonishment,
and never gave in. I'll look up the passage."

Do so, my boy," returned the Colonel, with an air
of extreme wisdom ; " it is always well to be able to
verify one's statements."

Meanwhile the household trooped in by units and
twos, and were greeted with a nod here and there,
supplemented by a pat on the head for the younger
children ; for the Colonel was very fond of the little
ones of the family, and very rarely made his presence
a tangible terror to them.

As he surveyed his congregation he missed two of
its members. "Where is Langton and that stableboy
? " inquired the Colonel, fiercely ; " they ought to
be here. It's no use their thinking that because they
are outdoor servants they are exempt from family worship.
Dick, get the horn and sound a summons in the
direction of the stables."

Dick, nothing loth, darted into the hall, followed by
Fritz, and a short struggle took place between these
young gentlemen for the possession of the instrument.
The contest ended in favour of Dick, and there was
nothing left for Fritz to do but to return to the room
and get his head rapped by his parent for leaving
it without permission. This delicate attention Fritz
received without wincing, but he privately scored a

resolve to have a turn at the horn on the first opportunity.


"Tra-li-ra ! tra-li-ra ! ra-ra-rgr!" re-echoed in space,
vocally accompanied by the Colonel, as he thrust his
head out at the window, and repeated the notes thus
blown with stentorian effect and accuracy.

Tri-lira ! tali-ra ! tali-ra ! la-li-ra-ra ! " again bellowed
the horn, and this last call produced a helper
from the stable-yard, who got himself into a stable-jacket
as he slouched leisurely along.

Behind came Jack, the lad, evidently shirking and
reluctant.

This was too much for Colonel Leppell. Dashing
through the window, he rushed towards the unlucky
groom, and turning sharply round, he drove him before
him as if he had been a horse or a cow. " D  n you,
come to prayers ! didn't you hear the horn, you
rascal ? " and with this and other choice adjurations
the reverse of complimentary, Jack was propelled into
the room, and crushed down on a vacant seat in the
file of chairs.

Now, then," said the Colonel, after recovering
himself a little, " steady ; tenth chapter of the Acts,
eh ? "

Yes, Colonel," from the congregation.

Well, mind now. I read the first verse, and the
whole of you will read the next one together. Keep
the time  not one after the other, but together.
Never mind if any one read badly ; the rest will help
a stumbler along."

vol. i. c

So the master began, and the chapter was read
throughout with a reverence and attention hardly to
be expected under the circumstances.

At the close the Colonel said, " I won't bother with
the Commentary. I don't believe in commentaries asa
rule ; and the one you have placed here, Mary," he
continued, addressing his daughter, " is written by a
woman, a Mrs Biddle,  ought to be Mrs Fiddle. Confound
her ! what business has a woman to write a
commentary ? very unscriptural, and flying in the face
of St Paul  or Timothy. Put that book in the fire,
or anywhere you like, but don't bring commentaries
written by a woman in here." So saying, the unfortunate
Commentary was hurled into Miss Leppell's
lap.

Now," went on the Colonel, " I want you all to
take notice that the man we have been reading about
was a soldier, and that an angel was especially sent to
this soldier, and that soldiers are mentioned with
respect throughout Scripture.

We don't read of angels being sent to patronesses,
though it is the fashion in cathedral towns to glorify
these people a great deal too much. Now mind, when
you hear the military run down, do you think of
Cornelius, and that his alms were had in remembrance
in the Lord's sight. Then there were Abner and
Joshua  the latter a capital general,  both Scripture
soldiers, and highly favoured ; and Jehu  no, I rather
think Jehu was celebrated for his driving  it doesn't
matter ; the fighting men of Israel crop up in all

directions through the Bible. You will remember all
this, won't you ? because being deluged with clergy-women
as we are, it is a Christian duty to stick to our
own profession and be able to give Bible reasons for
honouring the military in every possible way."

The congregation collectively affirmed that they
would remember; and Dick audibly proclaimed his
admiration for General Stonewall Jackson on the
spot, averring "that it was a shame that warrior
could not be put into the Bible with the rest of them."

The Colonel bestowed an approving grin on his son,
and then ordered him to hold his tongue.

Kneel down all of you," said the master of the
house, " and when I pray for all persons in general, I
ask you to pray for my son Marmaduke in particular ;
repeat after me at the proper time."

A short exordium appropriate to the day of the
week was read, and after that the Lord's prayer was
repeated by all. A pause  and then the Colonel proceeded
: " We ask for special guidance for our absent
one, Marmaduke Leppell. May he succeed in all his
undertakings, may his troubles be averted, and may
all his enemies be confounded. Amen."

Now, cook, look sharp and devil the kidneys," was
the next injunction, as the assemblage rose from their
knees. "Moll, make the breakfast; I'll just go and
see after the bull-terrier pup meanwhile.

Dick and Clara can breakfast with us ; all the rest
disperse." So the chamber was cleared and the train
disappeared, and Fritz and the stable-lad conferred

together in a safe corner of the stables, and came to
the conclusion that Mameluke must either be in
quod " for disobedience of orders, or that he had
caught the typhus fever.

Fritz rather inclined to the latter hypothesis, because
his brother had mentioned in his last letter that
this disease was rampant in the town whereat the
Royal Goldspinners were quartered.

Anyhow, we must trust in Providence," remarked
Fritz resignedly ; " it won't do to ask the governor any
questions just now. I know him ; he is in one of his
queer humours."

Be as well if a angel were sent to he, I am
thinking," replied the stable-lad, who had not forgotten
the unceremonious treatment which he had lately
received. " Though the Colonel is your pa, Master
Fritz, I makes bold to say that the way he goes on at
passons is orful ; I do."

Oh, that does not matter much," Fritz replied
soothingly. " The governor thinks that Mr Vane is
going in for Popery, and he hates Mother Braintree
because she is a meddling busybody, and lays down
the law to the Dean and Chapter of Yarnee, through
her old man, you know. I believe she even went sofar
as to tackle the governor because she heard him
rap out an oath one day when he was drilling the
pensioners in the cathedral square, and desired him
to remember that she was in residence. A good
joke ! no wonder the governor has a fling at the
patronesses,' as he calls them."

Mr Yane was clergyman of the parish of Blythe, and
had only lately been inducted into the living. The
value of this piece of preferment was sixty pounds a-
year, and had not Mr Yane possessed some private
means of his own, he could not have accepted the cure.
He was an earnest, kindly man ; and the symptoms of
Popery with which Colonel Leppell accredited him
were, that he had morning prayers every Wednesday
and Friday in Blythe Church, and that he pulled the
bell himself to call the parishioners to these devotions.
Further, Mr Yane had presumed to do his duty, and
impress upon the farmers and others who attended
Blythe Church that a more suitable place must be
found than the communion-table as a receptacle for
greatcoats or umbrellas, wet or dry.

The Hunter's Lodge pew was of the loose horse-box
pattern, and had formerly contained a fireplace for
the especial delectation of the Squire's family, when a
Squire of Blythe was there to occupy it. The present
owner of Blythe was abroad ; and, in consequence,
the tenant of Hunter's Lodge was adjudged the right
of occupying the seat of the Squire in the parish
church.

On the wall, just above the north side of this square,
a tablet was plastered which bore the following remarkable
inscription : 

In Memory of S. P. Q.

He was  words are wanting to say what :
Think of what Father, Husband, Friend should be,
And he was that."

Colonel Leppell, when lie attended the service at
Blythe Church, sat immediately under this tablet,
which, because it was the wonder and amusement of
all strangers, he eulogised as being very plain and
evangelical. "jSTo cross  no carving  no flummery
about it," he would say ; and from this coign of vantage
he narrowly scanned, with an eye like Mars,
what he was pleased to call Mr Vane's "goings onto
the great discomfort of that good and conscientious
minister.

The lady, disrespectfully referred to by Fritz as
Mother Braintree, was the wife of a newly appointed
canon of Yarnee Cathedral, who laboured under the
delusion that the transition, for three months in the
year, from a London parish to a house set especially
apart for the use of the resident canon in Yarnee was
equal to a patent of nobility, and a licence, not only
to associate with, but to be recognised as being one of,
the county families. At this time (twenty years ago)
it was not unusual to meet with the wives of country
clergymen, who, if they chanced to be of good birth,
assumed all the airs of the landed gentry  such as
declining to visit in the county town, and regarding
che haut en has the spouses of clergymen of the
city parishes, especially if their husbands acted as
master of a school, either public or private.

The cathedral clergy  that is, the portion of that
body who were recognised as the " dignified clergy " 
were, of course, exempted from this ostracism, which,

while it went far to form a purely ecclesiastical clique,
was little calculated to produce examples of Christian
courtesy, and that large-hearted charity which is to be
especially required of the holders of spiritual good
things.

The progress of education, and the broader views of
the present time, especially in the matter of political
economy, have in a measure stamped out what, in some
instances, was an absurd anomaly, and in others a
gross abuse. People are beginning to question the
propriety of allowing clergy, holding a living and a
residence in one part of the country, to occupy a
good house for quarter of the year in a cathedral town,
and leave it either untenanted or occupied by their
relations for the other three-quarters of that period.
In Yarnee no less than four houses were thus set aside
for the use of the four cathedral canons : and Colonel
Leppell was not far wrong when he expressed his
opinion that one house should suffice for this quartette
 thus giving more room for charitable institutions
and schools, or for any work (had they so pleased)
which would have been in harmony with the Dean and
Chapter of the Cathedral.

If this were not necessary  as it was then argued 
it were very easy to let the houses, and there were
plenty of poor and suffering to whom the proceeds of
the rent would have been a blessing indeed.

It is but fair to state that the canons themselves
had discussed this subject, and had rather leaned to

the idea of accepting one house, to be occupied in turn
as their several terms of residence fell due. But their
wives took a very different view of the subject, and
were, to a woman, furious at the bare mention of such
a proposition. They were so keenly alive to the
dignity and consequence of the Cathedral Chapter 
to the dignity of the whole Church, in fact,  what
could possess a son of Lord Hieover to put such an
idea into their husbands' heads ? Why, the Bishop
himself had two residences  the palace at Yarnee and
the palace at Wurstede  and the Bishop's wife had
proclaimed herself to be equal to both dioceses.

The idea was preposterous," argued Mrs Canon
Hetherby ; " let Colonel Leppell mind his own business,
and be content to drill his pensioners in the
cathedral square." She said this as if the locality
sufficed to throw the mantle ecclesiastic at once over
the commanding officer and the whole of the body that
there assembled under arms.

Mrs Braintree had arrived in the diocese of Yarnee
in the character of a woman of business, and she had
lost no time in giving ocular demonstration of her
capability to maintain a reputation of being thoroughly
up to work.

As the wife of a rector of a London parish, this lady
had borne her part with sincere zeal ; and being fond
of employment, and loyally and literally magnifying
her husband's office, she had managed the parish so
successfully, and had thereby earned so much respect

and deference, that it was hardly to be wondered at if
she at times demeaned herself as a clerk in feminine
orders  as far as the assumption of authority and the
giving of advice went. It was to her credit also that
she never assumed her husband's position, and that all
her acts were performed as coming with his sanction
and approbation, although it was known, by those behind
the scenes, that Mr Braintree never acted so
wisely as when he was guided in the performance of
his duties by the counsel of his wife ; and also, that a
good portion of her daily task consisted of smoothing
down difficulties, and mollifying the ire of persons,
raised mostly by the utter want of tact which the
reverend gentleman usually displayed in the common
affairs of life. He was a good man, and a kind one to
those whom he liked, but he was given to take unwarrantable
prejudices  and so the best side of his
character was only appreciated by his intimate friends.
In person, Mr Braintree irresistibly reminded the beholder
of the leaning tower of Pisa  so tall, and so out
of the perpendicular, was his build. But he bore the
impress of a gentleman ; and in perfect good faith and
courtesy he resolved, like his wife, to set everybody
and everything to rights when he should enter into
residence as canon of Yarnee.

With their experience it was naturally a matter of
surprise to this couple, on further acquaintance with
the regime with which Mr Braintree's preferment had
amalgamated them, to find that the canons' wives were

as ignorant as the cathedral stones regarding the vice
and misery which reigned rampant under the very
shadow of its towers. True, they subscribed to charities,
and they had some of the goody-goody women
to tea (and how these women toadied them, let those
who then dwelt in Yarnee testify) : but no, they did not
visit the poor personally ; they did not consider that
they belonged to the place ; they were only in residence
three months in the year, &c. Such was the
burden of their song ; and Mrs Canon Leathery,
whose husband was master of a hall at one of the
universities, blandly informed Colonel Leppell, on his
application to her for five shillings for a sick soldier,
that she really only looked upon their stay at Yarnee
as a kind of picnic,  they never, in fact, even brought
down their plate."

The college plate I suppose you refer to, madam ? "
the Colonel had ungallantly replied ; " still, I think, as
your husband draws seven hundred a-year from the
cathedral revenues, you will hardly refuse me a trifle
for my poor soldier."

This shamed the lady into doubling the amount
which he asked for: but she ever afterwards denounced
Colonel Leppell as a man of the most peculiar
ideas ; whilst he, in his turn, sang paeans over the
Catholic clergy, who, however he might differ from
them in theology, he respected for knowing better
than to be hampered with the nuisance of clergy women
in the shape of wives. " Sensible men, very sensible

men!" he would remark. Mrs Braintree, having ventured
to reproach him for swearing at his soldiers in
the cathedral precincts, some time afterwards, rather
strengthened his dislike towards the patronesses, ashe
called them. In his heart of hearts, however, he
respected the lady for having done (in a wrong way)
the right thing ; and he always insisted that, if Mrs
Braintree did interfere in things spiritual, she spent
the income of the canonry in Yarnee  and that was a
precious deal more than could be said for the other
three factors of the quartette which composed the
wives of canons prebendal of Yarnee ; to wit, Lady
Smirk, Mrs Varnish, and Mrs Canon Leathery, 
the latter lady being called Mrs Canon in right of her
husband being the longest appointed canon on the list.

Colonel Leppell, after seeing that the bull-terrier
pup was in a satisfactory condition, returned, with the
little beast on one arm and his youngest daughter
Julia on the other, to the breakfast-room. A fondness
for young things of all kinds was one of the Colonel's
redeeming qualities ; but in this, as in all else, he was
apt to run into inconsistency.

Miss Julia would have been better in the nursery,
and the pup in the stable at this time, seeing that between
them the milk-jug was upset, and the pup
obligingly vandyked a side of the tablecloth, as a
hint to the company that all his teeth were well to
the fore.

At length the little girl, choked by a piece of hot

kidney which had been rammed into her month by
her inconsiderate parent, grew black in the face, and
kicked like a bill of Bashan ; and Dick had to hold
her over the window, and thump and shake her till
the piece was pumped up.

The next thing for Miss Julia to do was to howl
lustily, and inveigh against her family in the most
energetic manner. " I wish I was a clock, I do  nasty
papa ! " cried this infant. " I wish I was a clock,
and I would not go for you  no, I would not go for
you  no ! "

This was particularly hard on the Colonel, for it
was one of his fancies to wind up and otherwise
regulate all the clocks and watches in the house. He
even at times took them to pieces, and of course he
never could, by any chance, set them up again. The
winding and striking and ticking that went on at intervals
was a terror to the household, and as the
nursery clock had persistently stood still for a fortnight
after the master's latest manipulations, it was
very possible that Miss Julia had heard some remarks
on that subject which were not intended to travel
outside the nursery door.

The pup had taken advantage of this diversion to
make short runs at the heels of his owner, incited
probably thereto by the screams of Miss Julia. A
speedy eviction followed ; and the child and the animal
howled in concert on the door-mat in the hall, till
a passing nursemaid rescued the pair.

i: I am going to the ' den,' and shall smoke there,"
said Colonel Leppell to his son, as they rose from the
breakfast-table. " When Ben returns, send him thereto
me. Mary, go and see if your mother is awake :
if she is, tell her I will come to her after the letters
arrive."

CHAPTER III.

SOME RETROSPECTION.

It was a positive relief to Colonel Leppell when, freed
from the presence of his family, he could, unseen and
with his pipe for company, ponder over the unfortunate
position of his son, and make some attempt to
extricate that youth from his difficulties without accepting
the aid which had been offered in so unexpected a
manner. But ponder and pshaw and exclaim as the Colonel
would and did, the stern fact of his utter helplessness
to extricate Mameluke from his embarrassments
still confronted him. There was no way to evade the
difficulty, no solution of the problem but that of accepting
the proposition made to his wife by his quondam
foe, Everard Glascott,  a man whom he had scandalously
ill-used, years ago, in the literal interpretation
of the game of all being fair in love and war. There
was only one comfort in the matter, and that was, that
he more than discharged a quid pro quo by giving
his beautiful daughter to the cousin of the man who had
so generously  so romantically  come forward to aid

him and screen his son. Then the Colonel worked
himself into the belief that he was, on his part, doing
a generous and self-sacrificing thing in even entertaining
an idea of the match with Mr Clavering.
Mr Clavering, indeed ! " he exclaimed aloud. " What
a sinking in poetry ! haw !  I had intended Moll to bea
Viscountess at least. If I had but known, I would
not have allowed her to refuse Lord Duffer. I wonder
what Moll thinks of this man Clavering,  it's all
I can do to keep my wits' soliloquised the poor
Colonel, as he in vain endeavoured to get matters
righted in his mental vision in the course of summing
them up. " Marmaduke charged with obtaining money
under false pretences, writs out against him ; Glascott
a sleeping partner in the firm who are prosecuting
him  there's a special interposition of Providence in
that though  and finally Marmaduke running off with
an heiress, and being caught before the end of the
journey, and the bride taken back by her friends.
The thunders of the Court of Chancery were light
in comparison with this piece of humiliation : besides,
what would or could the Lord Chancellor do ? After
all, it only amounted to contempt of Court, and
he didn't believe they would imprison Marmaduke
for that," argued the father to himself. " In fact, I
don't believe the Court of Chancery would bother
about it ; it's the absurd prejudice people have against
the army which is at the bottom of it. No doubt the
girl's friends are roturiers, and want to keep her for
some vulgarian of their own breed,  that's all about it.

But I do wish, for all that, some news from Marian
himself would turn up."

So musing, Colonel Leppell took down a law-book,
and rummaged among its pages to see if he could glean
any information therefrom regarding the abduction
of wards in Chancery. He was thus busily employed
when he heard the clatter of horse's hoofs.

It would have been in accordance with his usual
habit had he started out hatless to meet the messenger,
for he instinctively felt that Ben had returned.
Now he rose up, and quickly resumed his seat; a
slight pallor overspread his features, and he trembled
perceptibly. Were there any letters ? perhaps, after
all, there were none : he almost wished the latter
might be the case,  it would be better in this instance
to remain in ignorance, than know the worst.

So argued the man ; a woman would rather possess
complete knowledge, and seek to know the worst.
Thus both husband and wife, though apart in the
same house, waited for the tidings which the return
of the groom would bring.

Ben dismounted, and being waylaid by Dick, who
seized the reins and drove to the stables, at once took
his way to the " den " with the letter-bag. He was
allowed to knock twice at the door of that retreat
before permission to enter was accorded. Little given
to dissimulation, generally speaking, the Colonel at
this moment appeared to be deeply absorbed in his
researches, his head being lowered almost between the
pages of his book, and his voice giving utterance to

vague and detached words : thus he received the letter-bag,
without even looking at the bearer.

Put it down there," he said to the groom. " By
the by, did you bring back my portmanteau ? "

Yes, Colonel, it is in the dogcart ; " and thus replying,
the lad turned to go out.

"Wait a moment," cried the master, looking up
suddenly ; " there may be letters here for Mrs Appellant
the others. Ah ! yes  one, two, three  one for
Miss Leppell." This missive the Colonel scanned
narrowly before placing it on the packet with the rest.
The handwriting bore a wonderful resemblance to
that in which an epistle to himself was addressed.
Miss Kate Bubb, Hunter's Lodge, Blythe, forsooth !
who the deuce is Miss Kate Bubb ? "

' The new kitchen-maid, Colonel," answered Ben,
rather reluctantly, for he expected a storm.

Tell Miss Kate Bubb, with my compliments, that
she had better instruct her correspondents to make
some mention of the name of the family whom she
serves when they address letters to her. What is the
world coming to ? Why, that brat was in the village
school only two months ago, wasn't she ? "

I think so, Colonel ; but ye see she's ignorant,
and hasn't had much training in the fine work, sir,"
ventured Ben.

True," returned the Colonel amiably, for Ben
(being a soldier) was rather a favourite. " After all,
it does not do to teach 'em too much fine work, as you
call it  not just at first, I mean. At any rate, just you

VOL. I. L>

show Miss Kate Bubb how her letters are to be addressed
; and if you can't make her understand, send
her to me."

Ben thought he could undertake this office, knowing
full well that Miss Bubb would rather fly the country
than risk a tete-astute with Colonel Leppell in the recesses
of his den. The groom was, however, not sorry
to have the schooling of this young person, as he had
on several previous occasions warned the kitchen-maid
that it would be more becoming were she less
free with the names of the surrounding gentry. He
had even taken the trouble to point out to this audacious
young female that " Wilder's people " was not
the manner by which the family of Sir Morris Wild-mere
should be indicated, any more than the information
that Dr Trimmings, the physician of Yarnee, should
be reported as " Trimmings coming to dinner " ; in the
same breath, too, with Mr Tartar, the travelling tin-smith,
who was coming to scrape the kitchen kettles !
It must be one of the outlets of the doctrine of compensation,
this mania persons of low degree almost
invariably have for mutilating the names and contemptuously
handling the state of persons of position,
and, conversely, liberally glorifying the cognomen and
walk of life of those whom Providence has ordained
to be hewers of wood and drawers of water.

Mr Lumps, the coal-heaver, thinks this ; and old
Carew (Sir Cecil Carew) up there (Mount's Manor),
thinks the other thing." In this respect the mode of
expression of twenty years ago is not improved, and

education has yet to bear upon minds which riot in
the delusion that flippant ignorant impertinence towards
others is a mark of supreme independence.

To do Blythe and its neighbourhood justice, no one
had ever been known to designate Colonel Leppell
otherwise than by his proper title, or as the " Colonel."
In his own family the governor or " he " was equivalent
to some recognition of his position ; but people
were very chary of using the pronoun when the noun
proper was within ear-shot, and thus Miss Bubb's
familiarities alarmed, as much as they scandalised,
Ben Trifles the groom. He now leaves the room on his
mission of reformation to Miss Bubb ; and his master,
as soon as the door is closed, turns and takes up his
letters.

The first is merely a bill. " To bill delivered " is its
announcement, and the sender respectfully bespeaks
Colonel Leppell's attention to the fact that this is the
third time of asking for payment. The account is one
for saddlery, and amounts to 30, 5s. 8d. The Colonel,
as he looks over the document, ponders as to whether
his brother Alexander would like to pay its demands
for him ; he (the Colonel) has given him many a mount
Alex, really ought  he has no wife nor children 
lives on the best at free quarters at Hieover ; it is a
duty for one's unmarried kindred to assist the burdens
of the benedicts : and so in this, as in many other instances,
this officer works himself into the conviction
that by somebody, or by some method, his means of
subsistence must be supplied, and also be supplied ad

UmVJ'-Y Or ILL.

infinitum. However, for the present, the bill is cast
aside, and Colonel Leppell, with a strong grasp,
pounces on an undeniable-looking letter, which is
marked "private," and literally wrenches it open.
The contents were as follows : 

To the Honourable Colonel Leppell,
Staff-officer of Pensioners.

Yarnee, March 2, 186-.

Sir,  The knowledge that I have this day voluntarily
entered beneath your roof cannot be more
surprising to you than it is to myself. True, the
forgetfulness which time in its mercy brings, had
already obliterated the feelings of animosity with
which I formerly, and with justice, regarded you ;
but I frankly own that my object in now seeking
you arises less from a desire of reconciliation than to
promote the interests of one who now holds, in every
respect, the place of a dearly loved son to me.

I allude to my young cousin, Mr Francis Clavering,
who, by this post, asks your consent to his suit for the
hand of your lovely daughter, Miss Leppell. It is
probable that you entertain higher views for that lady
with regard to both rank and fortune. Mr Clavering
is simply the son of a gentleman, and has no claim to
other nobility than that of the genius with which he
is so magnificently gifted by nature.

As to fortune, Mr Clavering amply maintains himself
by his talents and hard work ; but in the event of
his marriage with Miss Leppell, I, as his father by

adoption, undertake to allow him an annual income of
one thousand pounds, and at once convey to him by
deed of gift a small property in the north of England,
which would suffice for a good and permanent home.

For the rest (and I would fain leave this subject
untouched), as a partner of the firm with which your
eldest son has lately held more than unfortunate transactions,
I promise to use my influence in detaining for
the present the writs now out against that young man ;
and further, to arrange to have the same totally withdrawn
in the event of the announcement, within a
reasonable time, of your daughter Mary's engagement
with Mr Francis Clavering.

Should you wish to confer with me, I shall be at
home every morning for ten days, at the subjoined
address.  I have the honour to remain, sir, yours
faithfully, Everard Glascott.

"Red Lion Hotel, Yarnee."

Colonel Leppell read and re-read this epistle, with
mingled feelings of shame and anger. Under the
circumstances of the case, he felt that the conduct of
the writer was more than generous ; it was noble 
nay, it was almost quixotic.

Still there remained the stern fact, that the propositions
contained therein amounted* to little less thana
barter. His Moll  heavenly Moll !  was therein
as actually bid for as if she had been a herd of cattle
or so many acres of land. Almost imperceptibly, also,
there dawned upon the Colonel the recollection that

he had entertained very different views with regard to
the disposal of his daughter Mary. There was Lord
Willows, a young widower of high degree, who would,
Colonel Leppell felt sure, pay the highest compliment
to the memory of his dead wife by choosing a successor
within six months after her demise ! Lady Willows
had already been dead four months, and her spouse
was to be seen disporting himself at county balls, to
one of which he had ridden forty miles in order to
claim the first waltz with Mary Leppell ! And Mar-mature
 Marmaduke was the spoke which thrust
itself into every spar of the Colonel's mental wheel.
Willows, he knew, might kick against the embezzlement
business ; but even if he did, there were other
men of rank who were not so punctilious. And then
then, a cousin of Everard Glascott, of all men in the
world,  what on earth could be the meaning of this
affection, this devotion to a man who was only a
cousin's son ?

After all, there is no love like the love which grows
downwards and outwards  unselfish, unworldly, godlike
: it absorbs all that is disappointing in misplaced
affection ; it supersedes the romantic love of youth,
and the worship of kindred and of race. Pure as the
rain-diamond, it gives all, and neither asks nor expects
return. Few have the power, still fewer have the
capacity to exercise it ; but in all the world's history
there is no richer harvest than the success which men
attribute to their launch in life through the love of
some human being upon whom they had no shadow

of claim  to whom, probably, they were at first unknown.
Nature's one touch of sympathy, in these
cases, opens the sealed and hidden fountain, and the
waters, which might have been called " March " in
their pent-up bitterness, gush forth in a tide of sweetness,
bearing a blessing in their course  for are not
their head-springs in the heart of him who loves his
fellow-men ?

"Write me as one who loves his fellow - men,"
Everard Glascott might well have declared, when,
after the first shock of disappointment, he looked
out upon the great world, if not for consolation, at
least for distraction in the hard work of life, which
leaves no time for sorrow. Reared in a mercantile
house which at that time was in the height of its
prosperity, he bethought himself to go to Lyons, thereto
increase the branch of the silk trade which it was
the object of the English firm to amalgamate with
their business. His cousin, Mr Clavering, was just
dead ; why not take the eldest son among these
orphans as a travelling companion, and thus give
hint the opportunity of acquiring more perfectly a
foreign language, and enlarge the lad's ideas of men
and manners ? His intention was confirmed when
the news of the sudden death of Mr Clavering's eldest
daughter, just one week after her father's demise,
reached him. The poor young girl had succumbed
to heart-complaint, brought on, it was said, by too
much care and anxiety, for hers had been the duties
of a mother, combined with the school life and studies

of early maidenhood. For two years this child had
tilled the post of mother, housekeeper, instructress,
and nurse ; no wonder, then, that after the funeral of
her father she was found dead in the great arm-chair,
close to the bed whereon he had breathed his last.
Thus with a smile on her face this sweet life faded
out, and Francis Clavering and his youngest sister,
verily Benjamin, were left alone.

There had never been much intimacy between these
cousins ; they had met and they had parted much as
ordinary mortals do in the usual walks of life. They
had never required anything one from the other,
consequently their intercourse had been one of unruffled
peace. Everard Glascott had arrived to pay
his visit of condolence the day after the young girl's
burial, and the grief of the little sister had so touched
him, that he there and then made a resolution henceforth
to look upon the orphans as his own children.
The fact that all the portion that each would have
was a bare thousand pounds, rather stimulated than
arrested this intention ; and thus, having placed little
Willina under the care of the mother of one of the
child's playfellows, he took the boy with him to the
Continent, and from the hour that he led his charges
forth from their father's house, he in every way
strictly carried out the obligations he had imposed
upon himself towards them.

It was thus, in his great love for Francis Clavering,
that Mr Glascott gave up the fixed intention of
having done with the Leppell race for evermore.

Lady Asher, whose husband had been made a baronet
from having had the luck to go up to royalty at the
head of an important deputation, was immediately
seized with such a passion for rank, that she threw
the weight of her influence in favouring the addresses
of the Honourable Mr Leppell, then an ensign in a
marching regiment, to the utter exclusion of Mr
Glascott, who was the promised suitor of Adelaide,
the only child of the Ashes. These had married late
in life, and, from their great success as fringe manufacturers,
were able, if not to make their daughter an
heiress, to endow that young lady with a very comfortable
fortune ; and as her personal attractions were
far above the average, it was only in the proper course
of things that Miss Asher should be with the most
sincere intentions sought in marriage, both by the
flower of the youth who entered the manufacturing
town of Mills, and also by those who dwelt within its
boundaries.

A most unhandsome subterfuge employed by Mr
Leppell to affect the honour of his rival, and which
was matured into a specious appearance of substantial
truth by the management of that young gentleman's
cleverer brother Alexander, was the reason given by
Sir Robert Asher for his one day not only formally
rejecting Mr Glascott's suit on behalf of his daughter,
but also for intimating at the same time that it would
be desirable that the acquaintance which had subsisted
between the families should cease.

Young Glascott in vain demanded a full explanation

of this conduct. " I have no direct accusation to
make against you," was the old man's reply; "but
you know that through you business has been lost
to the firm, and there is an impression that two
clerks forfeited their places through your having
borne false witness against them."

''Do you believe this?  sincerely, conscientiously
believe it ? " the young man inquired.

I wish I could answer you that I do not," the
old man replied sadly. " I daresay that there has
been some exaggeration in the matter ; but there
are, as you must know, facts which appear to damage
you."

"Appearance is not reality," the young man answered
with some scorn. " However, the law will
right me sooner or later ; meanwhile let me see
Adelaide,  in your presence if you will  but let me
see her."

She has promised to obey her parents," was Sir
Robert's reply ; " but it will perhaps be more satisfactory
to all parties that you should learn from her
own lips that she acquiesces in our decision."

The young man put the same question to the
daughter that he had done to the father. "In the
presence of your parents, Adelaide," he said very
gently, but with clear defiant eyes, "do you believe
that I am capable  that I have sworn falsely against
two clerks employed in your father's warehouse ? "

No answer ; only a quivering of the hesitating undecided
mouth, and a stolen look at her mother.

Again the young man repeated his question. The
answer came slowly  " I am very sorry,  but I must
believe what my parents believe."

Nothing to him that there were tears in her eyes
and in her voice. He bowed low, and with a look of
supreme contempt directed towards Lady Asher, he
turned to depart. " May you none of you live to
repent of your  your  gullibility' was all he said ;
and then he threw a letter towards Sir Gilbert
Asher.

Head that, and ponder over it at your leisure," he
cried, and the next moment Mr Glascott was out of
the house.

The letter was one written from one of the clerks
who had been discharged from Mr Asher's manufactory.
It contained a declaration that all Mr Glascott
had stated concerning him was true, and further, it
volunteered the information that had it not been for
Mr Glascott's vigilance, a very serious robbery would
have been perpetrated in the warehouse by himself
and his fellow-clerk. The writer asked pardon of Mr
Glascott for his false statements, and added that he
had been induced to make them by parties whom he
would rather not name. This epistle was fully dated
and signed.

That she could be persuaded to think so ill of me
is quite sufficient reason why I will never attempt to
see her again," was the young man's reflection. " I
know the Leppells are at the bottom of all this ; let her
marry Ralph he is better than that sly villain, his

brother. Faugh ! vainly do they seek to rise to the
level of my contempt ! Poor Adelaide ! "

Thus, after seeking the Leppells and giving them the
cut direct in a very public place, and then inserting
the clerk's epistle in the 'Mills Gazette,' Everard
Glascott went his way, and up to this time never
sought the love of womankind. Immediately afterwards,
Adelaide married Ralph Leppell, and her life
subsequently was spent in repenting the bargain she
had made.

Everard Glascott's feelings can be better imagined
than described, when, long years afterwards, Francis
Clavering, a somewhat cold and self-contained young
man, rushed into his rooms at Paris, and besought
his co-operation in bringing about a marriage with
himself and Ralph Leppell's daughter. The young
man was aware of the detestation in which his cousin-father
held the whole house of Hieover ; he remembered
that when he had gone into the county of Yarnee,
in company with the other members of the Geological
Society, Mr Glascott had told him that there were
reasons why he could not furnish him with letters of
introduction to any member of that family; he knew,
though he could not distinctly put into words what it
meant, that some quarrel had estranged Mr Glascott
for years from his oldest friends the Ashes of Mills,
and that on the rare occasions when he did mention
Lady Asher, it was to stigmatise that matron as a
fool filled with folly." Strange world, strange course
of events, which brought Everard Glascott to forget

his wrongs, and, for the deep love he bore to his adopted
son, to place himself almost in the position of a
suppliant to Ralph Leppell !

At the close of Francis Clavering's entreaties, Mr
Glascott took counsel with himself, and the unselfishness
of his nature never shone out more grandly than it
did on this occasion. " It cannot be  it shall not be,"
he mused, " that Francis is to suffer the pangs of misplaced
affection as I have so suffered. No ; his career
in life must neither be embittered nor arrested because
an old man's resentment has stood in the way of his
heart's desire  of his love and of his happiness. This
is no boyish fancy ; it is the deep affection of the man
of one who has never frittered this treasure here
and there in the light measure of the grains of sand :
he gives the whole store, and sinks or swims with the
venture.

This is so rare nowadays, almost strange, that I
dare not refuse my consent to Frank's union with Ralph
Leppell's daughter. There is something due from the
old to the young ; we are mostly too apt to forget this,
wrapt as we often are in the cloud of mental stupor
in which the waters of Lethe have steeped our souls.
I must in justice recognise the fact that Frank has
paid me the respect of asking my sanction to his paying
his addresses to Mary Leppell ; many men would
not have so acted. And more, he  calm, reserved,
and almost rejecting all sentiment as a matter too
trivial to mingle with the work of life  he comes tome
as a girl comes to her mother, and lays bare the

secret of his soul. I will delay no longer,  I will rise
up and seek Ralph Leppell : there is no humiliation in
doing this, and what if there were ? Clavering is the
son of my love  the love which is born out of life's
disappointment."

So he rose up and wended his way into Yarneshire.
It was with no desire to heap coals on the head of his
enemy that further induced Mr Glascott to avail himself
of the opportunity that a curious chance presented
(by being unexpectedly called to Liverpool on business),
to use his influence, and endeavour to shield Armature
Leppell from the consequence of his own acts.
Writs had been issued against that youth, but hitherto
he had managed to evade the Sheriffs officers.

Mr Glascott had, on the part of Francis Clavering,
everything to hope from the desperate situation into
which the force of circumstances had placed his quondam
enemy, Colonel Leppell.

Affairs stood thus at the time when this thoroughly
perplexed gentleman paced up and down in his den
holding Everard Glascott's letter in his hand.

CHAPTEE IV.

MISS FANSHAWE.

The action of pacing to and fro in a manner indicative
of a huge share of muscular Christianity did not,
however, suffice to bring Colonel Leppell to any direct
conclusion as to how he should deal with the communication
which he had for the fifth time perused.

His mind was in so great a state of agitation, that
he could scarcely distinguish whether the contents of
Mr Glascott's letter were acceptable to him or the
reverse ; and so in order to stave off, for a while at
least, further contemplation of the matter, he returned
to the table and seized the next epistle which lay
thereon.

This turned out to be a missive from Mr Francis
Clavering, bespeaking rather than entreating Colonel
Leppell's sanction to his suit for the hand of that
gentleman's daughter, Mary. The writer further intimated
his intention of paying his respects at Hunter's
Lodge on the afternoon of the day on which his
letter would be received.

(" He'll be here before we have time to look round,
confound him ! " exclaimed the reader.) Mr Clavering
ventured to hope that an interview with Miss Lep-
pell might be accorded to him, and he took pleasure
in informing Colonel Leppell that he was indebted to
Lord Hieover for his first acquaintance with that
lady, he having been specially presented to her by his
lordship.

(" What on earth induced my father to invite the
Geological Society to Hieover, giving them champagne
luncheons, and having the place ransacked by a lot
of wandering lecturers : here's what has come of

it.-)

The Colonel took a turn in the den, stamped and
haw-hawed, and then continued the reading of his
letter.

Concerning his position and prospects, Mr Clavering
referred Colonel Leppell to his relative and
guardian, Mr Glascott of Brydone, Island of Jersey,
who was now in Yarnee for the ensuing week. " It
may suffice for the present," the writer continued,
to state that my income is raised by my earnings
both as a scientific lecturer and as a barrister-at-law."


The whole concluded with an assurance that it
would be the object of Mr Clavering's life to promote
the happiness of Miss Leppell, should these his proposals
of marriage arrive at a satisfactory arrangement,
and it was needless, he trusted, to add that he
entertained sentiments of the deepest affection and

respect towards the lady. In the hope that he might,
ere long, be recognised as a member of Colonel Lep-
pell's family, Mr Clavering signed himself that gentleman's
obedient servant, and dated his letter from the
Eed Lion Hotel, Yarnee.

The recipient of this document gave it a turn in the
air, and then dashed it on the table.

There was certainly a cool assured ring about this
composition which convinced the Colonel that the
gentleman with whom he was now to deal was of
the Veni, Villi, Vice order of wooers. It might be
that Clavering had reasons which satisfied him that his
proposals, if not actually accepted, would at least be
no matter of surprise to his daughter. She might
fancy the man  girls are so inexplicable in these
matters. But so little time had been left both by
him and his guardian for consideration, that only one
inference could be drawn from their mode of action 
they believed that Marmaduke's folly insured Clavering's
success.

I won't consent,  I declare I won't consent," the
Colonel at length protested in an audible key. " I'll
go over to Hieover and put the matter before my
father and Alick ; for their own sakes, they will shield
Marmaduke,  they must do it."

Then it occurred to the perplexed father that, even
if his kindred came to the rescue, it could only be the
repayment of the money to the Liverpool firm which
would benefit him, and the safe rejection of Mr
Clavering's suit would evidently not be arrived at by

VOL. I. E

this means. Everard Glascott did not want money ;
he wanted his daughter for the son of his love, and if
she were refused to him, there was nothing but utter
ruin in store for Marmaduke Leppell. There was
another phase of the situation which the Colonel had
not as yet brought into account  nay, it only at this
moment dawned upon his imagination  Moll might
take it into her head, without any prompting from
him, to decline Mr Clavering altogether. She had a
will of her own in a quiet way  it was possible that
she had another preference  goodness only knew ;
so with all this working on his brain, the Colonel
started up, and crumpling his letters together in his
hand, went through the house and straight to the
room wherein his wife was supposed to be taking
rest.

Mrs Leppell was still in bed, her young daughter
humped up, as it were, by her side on the coverlet.
The eyes of the latter were moist with tears ; it was
evident that the mother and daughter had been in
deep conference, and neither seemed particularly delighted
when the head of the family knocked and entered
at the instant his knuckles were off the door.

You are better, aren't you ? " he said, nodding towards
his wife ; " I am sure I hope so, for I want to
talk to you about these letters. I sent one to you,
Moll," he went on to say, looking at Mary, " from
the same quarter, to judge by the handwriting, from
whence this one comes," and he dropped Mr Clavering's
epistle into the girl's lap.

Yell, this swain of yours goes through the ceremony
of asking my consent in a fashion, as you see :
what do you mean to say to it, my queen of beauty ?
Eh?"

My queen of beauty " reddened deeply, and said
that she was not quite sure that she knew.

But you are not in love with this fellow ? " cried
the Colonel attentively.

Deep silence on the part of Miss Leveller

father changed the form of his question and
enlarged the substance of it. " Have you allowed Mr
Clavering to make advances to you ? has he given you
any notion of what he intended to write to-day ? "

jSTo, not exactly ; at least I do not think so. Mr
Clavering is much less given to pay me compliments
than any of the men whom I meet in society."

You met him at Hieover, I believe ? " says the
Colonel.

Yes ; grandpa and uncle Alex, think very
highly of him ; and as for Lillian Fanshawe, you
should hear what Lillian thinks of him." The girl
said this in a tone which implied that a most incontrovertible
authority had been cited in the mention of
Miss Fanshawe.

Lillian Fanshawe ! where did she become acquainted
with him ? "

Mr Fanshawe gave a luncheon to some of the
members of the Geological Society, and Lillian afterwards
walked with Mr Clavering to show him some
curious rocks which exist near Pinnacles. He was

preparing a lecture on geology, and Lillian helped him
very much, he told me."

Hem ; these travelling clubs are a great nuisance.
Did you go with the walking party ? "

No, papa ; I am not clever, and that is one thing
which makes me uncertain with regard to Mr Clavering.
He is so learned and so wise ; it frightens me.
The only comfort is, that he is not too dignified to goto
balls, and he dances fairly well."

I remember something of him somewhere  lectures
on somebody  no  on some 'ology or other,"
returned the Colonel.

Lillian says he knows all the 'ologies, and that he
is the most intellectual man that has ever entered the
county," the girl replies.

Has Lillian seen much of him ? I am glad to hear
that he is an acquaintance of hers ; Miss Fanshawe's
opinion is worth having," continued Colonel Leppell,
rather sententiously.

I think Mr Clavering was only at Pinnacles once.
He has never been here ; you were so much away, and
mamma was ill. I saw most of him when old Lady
Kindred was chaperoning me about. Oh, I have seen
more of him than Lillian has. I don't think she met
Mr Clavering at balls and parties ; besides, she judges
of him from the geological point of view."

Well, he is coming here this afternoon, so you
must know what answer he is to get, and that quickly,
Moll," said her father, with a touch of sorrow in his
voice.

I must have time," the girl answered, suddenly
and very decidedly. " I shall not think he really
cares for me if he will not allow me time to know
my own mind. If it comes to any question of that, I
shall be ready to answer Mr Clavering in the negative
form."

Satisfy us, your parents, on one point, Moll, dear,"
said the mother, rising in her bed and clasping this
pearl of price in her arms,  " tell us one thing  do you
care for, do you love, or have you any decided preference
for, any other man ? Do not fear to answer, my
precious one, for if you have, you shall not, you shall
not marry Mr Clavering." Here she looked at her
husband, and in her look these words were conveyed
to him in the fullest sense of their meaning  " My
daughter shall not be bartered for Marmaduke's sake.
Honour, money, fame may go, but Moll shall not be
sacrificed. I have yielded much in my lifetime, but
this child makes me firm as the granite rock now."

The Colonel evidently understood what his wife
intended that he should understand. His mind had
been so harassed within the last twenty-four hours,
that he was unequal to being astonished.

To the great relief of both parents, Mary answered
simply, and with the most charming candour, " No,
mother dear. Sometimes I fancy one more than
another ; but I have no regard for any one  be sure,
if I had, I would marry that man, or remain single all
my days. No ; Mr Clavering, to my mind, is worth
all my admirers put together."

Thank God ! " said Mrs Leppell, falling back on
her pillow, and giving way to a burst of tears.

She soon recovered herself, and then said, " I want
to talk to papa now, and you have been taken so
much by surprise, that you ought to be alone to think
matters over. Put on your hat and go into the garden ;
the fresh air will do you good. And you may as well
take the little ones out  that is, if you like ; they will
play about, and will not interfere with you. As you
pass through the hall, just knock at grandmamma's
door and see how she is."

Yes." And then kissing both her parents, Mary
Leppell  sweet, innocent young girl  tripped out of
the room, and was away with the little children among
the violets and the daffodils ; and all her perplexities
seemed to vanish in the sound good health which finds
pleasure in the mere fact of moving and being, of loving
and being loved.

No sooner had the sound of her footsteps died away
than Colonel Leppell spoke. " You haven't mentioned
anything about Marmaduke to her, have you ? " said
he to his wife, with an air of suspicion.

Certainly not ; but read this," and she placed a
letter, which she withdrew from beneath her pillow,
in his hand.

The superscription of this epistle bore a different
handwriting from that in which its contents were set
forth.

It is from Duke," said his mother. " He is evidently
afraid of being traced. He has got some one to

address his letter. His news is dreadful ! Oh, what
is to be done ? "

From Duke ! " exclaimed Colonel Leppell, in a
tone of the utmost delight. " He has managed to get
out of the way. I thought he would, dear fellow.
Perhaps, after all, he may get clear off, and be out of
the country, abroad somewhere."

Head for yourself," replied Mrs Leppell. " Duke's
position cannot well be worse."

It was a lamentable communication, without doubt,
and it ran as follows : 

Dearest Mother,  I wonder if you and the governor
have heard anything about me  anything uncomfortable,
to put it mildly  lately ? If you have, I
know that you will not cast me off, nor do I think
papa will either, because he knows how hard the
world is on young fellows, especially if they happen to
be army men. Knowing this, I hope you won't be
very much upset when I tell you I have been very
unfortunate lately  so much so, that I am obliged to
hide with rather a peculiar character, the Birmingham
Pet ! the gentleman who taught me to use the gloves
scientifically, and who is a renowned champion in the
ring.

(" The Birmingham Pet is a prize-fighter, and his
name is Thwacker," interpolated the Colonel in explanation.)
" Luckily I have introduced several pupils
to this man, and, in return, he has taken me into his
place, and is concealing me from pursuit. The word

1 pursuit  will frighten you ; but the truth is, I have
been tempted, under the strong pressure of money and
of duns, to add a cipher to a cheque, which I got
cashed at Liverpool at the private bank of Firelight
& Deare. As you may have some one inquiring
after me, I want to tell you how all this happened, as,
if the affair comes out, the governor will hear accounts
of the matter which, ten to one, won't be true.

I sold a dog to Cracky Winton (he is called Cracky
because he does such queer things), and he gave me a
cheque for eight pounds to pay for it on the bank I
have mentioned, never hinting that old Deare was his
step-father. Well, I know it was a stupid thing to do,
but I was horribly pressed for money just then, and
half mad into the bargain with one thing and another ;
so I altered the cheque to eighty pounds, knowing that
I could repay Cracky after my marriage (which he
knew about), and that he would forgive me when I
should tell him all the circumstances. What should
that meddling old Deare do but trouble his head
about Cracky's affairs, and wrote to him to know
what could be the reason of his paying so large a
cheque to me as that of eighty pounds, which had
been cashed two days before. Fortunately I was with
C. W. when old Deare's letter came : he handed it tome,
and was such a trump about the whole thing.
He forgave me, and promised to help me in getting
off with Peggy Lorton that very night. It seems some
of the bank's people suspected that Cracky's cheque
was not all right, and old Deare wrote with the intention

of getting Cracky to admit that the original had
been altered. I got a hint that the bank would
prosecute, and so that same night I ran off with
Peggy  who will have 40,000 when she comes of
age, and who is nice as well as rich. Well, we got
caught, and Peggy was taken back ; but we had been
married two hours previously at a registrar's office at

G . I could not insist upon going back with

Peggy because of this bank business, which, of course,
she knows nothing about. I shall have to go to
prison for abducting a ward of Chancery, but that I
don't so much mind, though, of course, it is a great
nuisance losing my wife in that way. It is hard about
the bank, as Cracky Clinton would not prosecute me ;
but he is not quite of age, and that malignant old
Deare is his guardian, and he is the prime mover in
the business : the wickedness of elderly men is certainly
increasing everywhere.

I should tell you that it was those two miserable
old Halliards, at whose school Peggy was a parlour
boarder, that communicated with the Court of Chancery,
and set the officers of that Court after us.  It's
all envy, because no one ever wanted to elope with
either of them, or marry them after the conventional
tack. Please talk this over with the governor. Could
you not manage to bring G. P." ("Grandpapa, he
means," said the Colonel) " round ? A viscount might
do something. Please write soon to this address 
T. Thwacker, Esq., The Bruising, 20 Holborn Bars,
London.

Pes.  If you put a small ' o ' over the T., Thwacker
will know that it is intended for me. I am dressed
and blackened as a Kentucky serenader, and play the
banjo after dark, so I am earning my board ; but you
may be sure I am very miserable under my gay attire."

Dreadful, Ralph, is it not," said Mrs Leppell. " I
wish Duke had expressed more regret, but I suppose
he is trying to make light of the matter to spare my
feelings  it must be that," said the poor mother,
searching hopelessly to find some excuse for her eldest
born ; " he must feel his position acutely."

Yes, that he must," answered Duke's father ; " the
bare idea of that exquisite, Duke, being compelled to
figure as a black strolling singer, dressed in striped
pink stuff, like the coverings of the Feathers' 
chairs, is enough to make us repudiate him
altogether. But come, Adelaide," continued the Colonel,
" cheer up. I will give my full consent to Moll's
marrying young Clavering, and I will do it with a
good grace ; so you see that will dispose of the bank
business, if Glascott keeps his word."

He will ! " she retorted with some animation ;
Everard Glascott's word is better than many another
man's bond. If I could only be sure that Mary will
not be a sacrifice. I feel, I do not know why, that
there is too much haste, too much barter, in this
business."

"Barter it is, and no mistake," returned Ralph.
That is Glascott's doing ; but are not daughters bartered

every day of our lives in some fashion or other ?
You ought to be thankful that Moll has no admirer to
reject or to put aside for this man. She half likes
him evidently."

Half likes, yes ; but her mate should be some one
warm, generous-hearted, and frank as herself. This
Mr Clavering seems to have had no youth."

How do you know ? What nonsense women take
into their heads. Why, don't you remember, Moll
said that Lillian Fanshawe  that piece of ice-cream 
was quite taken with him ; and mind you, Miss Lillian
is rather fastidious  her last London campaign has
not been thrown away upon her."

True ; I was rather glad to hear that," Mrs Leppell
answered ; " but how about Duke's affairs ? I think
you are taking this running away with a ward of
Chancery rather too lightly. The officer who called
here told me it was a very grave misdemeanour,
and you see Duke himself speaks of his being imprisoned
for this escapade as a certain thing. He
must have obtained some reliable information on the
subject, for in the way Duke puts it, this seems to be
inevitable. He would not write such news to his
mother if it were not so."

"Can't think why he did not manage that elopement
better," the Colonel replied, pulling at his moustache
; " generally speaking, Duke is a cool hand, 
this cheque business, I daresay, flurried and upset
him."

I hope it did," Mrs Leppell answered, with a look

of indignation. " Oh, Ralph, I do not think you fully
comprehend what a degrading, miserable business
this is!"

What Colonel Leppell would have replied to this it
is quite impossible to say. It may be that he felt more
indignation against his son than he cared to show ;
but it was still more likely that, with the confidence
of a sanguine temperament, he already regarded the
bank affair as being entirely condoned, through the
fortuitous circumstances which tended to conceal that
disgraceful transaction. Moreover, he firmly believed
that he was acting the part of a Eoman father in thus
generously giving up his own plans and intentions
with regard to his daughter's settlement in marriage,
sublimely ignoring the fact that he actually stood in
that position which is vulgarly defined as being " Hobson's
choice."

Many circumstances in his own career had tended to
blunt the Colonel's estimate of what most men regard
as strict honour ; and it is to be feared that he extended
his indulgence towards a sinner against society
very much in proportion to the chances of the delinquent
being astute, or lucky enough not to be found
out.

Flying feet, from the garden into the house, and
then towards the door of the little bedroom, saved
Colonel Leppell from the necessity of attending to his
wife's last remark. This distraction was evidently a
relief to him ; for he rose quickly, and had the door
opened just as a hand from outside was on the lock.

Holloa, Moll ! I thought it was you ; am I wanted ? "
he inquired.

Oh, papa ! is not this fortunate ? " his daughter
exclaimed. " Here is Lillian ; she is staying at the
Braintrees' : they had a dinner-party last night ; and
she has escaped Sarah Braintree, and walked out here.
I am so pleased, for she can tell you all about him 
Mr Clavering, I mean."

Where is she ? " said the Colonel, looking over the
girl's head.

I left her in the garden, talking to the children.
I thought I would run in and see if mamma would
mind my bringing her in here."

Not in the least," Mrs Leppell answered for herself
from the bed ; " wait a little, and tell Prothero to come
and arrange the room. I don't know what can be
wrong with me ; but I feel I cannot rise till later in
the day. Ralph, go and receive Lillian, will you ? and
tell her how unwell I am."

The Colonel very willingly executed his wife's injunction,
and at once went out in search of the guest
announced by the familiar name of Lillian.

This young lady was not only an intimate friend of
the Leppells, from the reason of her family being landholders
and inhabitants of the same county, but the
nearer tie of school-fellowship had strengthened what
had hitherto been but an ordinary pleasant acquaintance
on the part of the two girls, Mary Leppell and
Lillian Fanshawe. The latter, by virtue of one year's
seniority, had made her clout some time earlier than

her friend ; and being a lady of great observation, reticence,
and self-command, she comported herself withall
the ease and savoir faire which is often greatly
lacking in matrons double Miss Fanshawe's age.
These qualifications, combined with a cold manner,
which was marvellously counteracted by the sweetness
of her voice and the speaking expression of a pair of
glorious eyes, served to furnish her with society's passport
of being a very superior young woman.

The position which Lillian Fanshawe held, and the
circumstances of her life perhaps more than her natural
temperament, had, from a very early age, served,
as it were, to force and harden every instinct which
might incline to ensure success in life, and to repress
every tender and gentle feeling which other training
might have encouraged and helped forward. Her
father combined the two dissimilar posts of country
clergyman and county gentleman ; and as the income
arising from both sources was insufficient to maintain
a family of fourteen children in tolerable comfort, the
struggle between the spirituals and the temporal was
a matter of daily occurrence. This arose chiefly from
the fact that, whilst Mr Fanshawe would have been
satisfied to reside at his rectory, and live as a country
clergyman should live, his whole family, including
their mother, were endowed  by Providence possibly
with a much greater zest for the flesh-pots of Egypt
than for the frugal habits and comparatively retired
life which a residence at the rectory of Pinnacles
would have required. ,

Your cousin has died just in the nick of time,"
Mrs Fanshawe remarked, when the letter announcing
the demise of the bachelor relative which made Mr
Fanshawe lord of the manor of Pinnacles Court was
read through ; " the rectory is getting small for our
family, and you would have had to build in another
year. Of course we shall move to the Court at
once."

The rector did not think that move would be necessary.
He reminded his spouse that the lamented deceased
had not lived, unfortunately, long enough to
pay off all the mortgages with which the property
was encumbered, and added, that he feared that there
was very little ready money left to enable them to
keep up Pinnacles Court. He also admonished Mrs
Fanshawe, as delicately as he could, that, in consequence
of some remarks which she had made with
regard to his late relative's personal appearance,
and which were the reverse of complimentary, she
must not be disappointed if neither the one nor the
other of them was named in the special bequests and
legacy portion of the will, and that it would be as well
if she would at once make up her mind to accept pleasantly
the fact that all the articles of female adornment,
in the shape of very valuable jewels, would become the
sole possession of their respected aunt, Susanna Fan-share,
aged sixty-six, to dispose of as might seem good
unto that childless widow of the house.

But surely your cousin Gilbert might have remembered
our girls : he knew how many we have, and

that it is not likely that we could give them valuable
jewelry."

Oh, he knew all that," answered the rector, " but
you are well aware he did not care a button either
for them or for us; consequently, he will not have
left anything more in our direction than what he was
actually obliged to leave. Besides, during the nine
years that Gilbert occupied the Court, he lived up to
every penny of the income. It would be pleasant forme,
certainly, to live in the home of my forefathers,"
continued the rector, thoughtfully ; " but I fear this
step would only hamper us, and render the ordinary
struggle of life more difficult."

Not at all," the rector's wife replied, with all the
readiness of a woman of resource. " To occupy the
Court would give you at once the position which will
be so necessary when the girls are introduced. You
know what the world is. Why not let the rectory ? 
this house, I mean. It is large and commodious enough
for any moderate - sized family, and its being seven
miles from Yarnee gives a county tone to the property.
It would just suit some of the merchants of
Yarnee, who would like to have their country house.
It need not be called Pinnacles Rectory ; change the
name to Beaudesir, or, as you object to foreign names,
why not call it the ' Retreat ' ? "

"Nice retreat for a Yarnee shopkeeper from eight
at night to seven in the morning," growled the rector,
and a mile to get to the railway. Still, your idea

is feasible, and the mercantile class of all degrees can
afford a high rent. Mind, I won't have the house let
to any genteel paupers ; I prefer substantial commercials.
But what about the curate ? I must keep
one, now that the Bishop has decided to amalgamate
Brockenhurst with Pinnacles."

Oh, the curate must be single, and very young  his
first place, in fact. He can live in two rooms down
in the village ; old Mrs Shropshire has the very
thing, and, of course, I will see that the young man
is comfortable, and has all he wants. I think the
sooner we make up our minds about moving the better,
and when you come to reflect on the matter, you
will see that it is due to yourself and to your family
that you should at once occupy the family seat of
the Fanshawes."

So they did make up their minds, and the result
of that effort was an immediate move to Pinnacles
Court as a local habitation. The rectory was also let
satisfactorily and permanently to a merchant, not of
Yarnee but of London town, as a residence for his
invalid imbecile sister and her nurse. In spite of the
rector's objection to foreign nomenclature, he was
obliged to accept his tenant as Mr John La Touche,
and the new name of Pinnacles Rectory as " Esperanza."
The proper kind of curate came to hand, and thus,
from the time that Lillian was twelve years of age,
she had been accustomed to hear all the family plans
and those of others correlative with these discussed

vol. I. F

and turned to account, and was thereby more advanced
in the art of keeping up appearances than many a
grandmother of seventy years.

Added to this, there had never been any sympathy
betwixt Lillian and her mother ; and as the latter
prided herself upon her sincerity, and, under the
mantle of this delusion, permitted herself to say the
most insulting and impertinent things to and about
society, individually and collectively, it was not to be
wondered at that, as the girl grew older, she should
become reserved and cold, and resolutely set herself
against offering any opening for the exercise of Mrs
Fanshawe's satire in regard to herself. Her mind,
naturally logical and reflective, could not balance with
any degree of satisfaction the mixture of the clerical
maxims and worldly practices which, as years and
children progressed, permeated the whole life at
Pinnacles Court, and, as a natural consequence,
everything connected with parish work and the
duties of a clergyman and his family were not
only distasteful, but highly repellent, to Miss Lillian
Fanshawe.

The refining influence of a first-class school had
imparted a charm to this young lady's manners which,
combined with her attractive appearance and self-possession,
caused her to be much appreciated in the
society wherein she moved ; and a curious, indescribable
resemblance which she bore to Mrs Leppell had
early enlisted Mary's warm regard towards her in
the closer intimacy of their school-life. Indeed this

likeness was so strong that, on the younger lady's
visits to Hunter's Lodge, strangers had invariably
greeted her as one of the daughters of the house.

The great difference in this resemblance was, that
in proportion as the lower part of Mrs Leppell's face
was remarkable for a decided weakness of expression,
which was enhanced by a hesitation in her speech
whenever she became hurried or agitated, Lillian's
mouth and chin were conspicuous by an air of resolution,
which dominated every curve of those features.
Her speech, clear and incisive, was modulated to the
tone of a well-tempered bell, each sound falling like
a touch on the ear, distinct and always sweet. Both
of these ladies possessed the same fine cast of head
and throat, and the dignified tread of the Castilian
peasant rather than the hurry - scurry step which
is the usual factor in the locomotive power of the
majority of English women.

That Lillian was a great favourite of the Colonel
was also a recommendation to her in his wife's eyes :
she could say and did say so much in her quiet
polite fashion, and always said her say with unerring
tact and reason, so that more than once a domestic
storm, which rose in blackness and fury, had sailed
right away and burst into space, thanks to the calm
and astute manner in which a diversion in the interests
of peace and common-sense had been effected
by this young visitor in the house.

The great secret of Miss Fanshawe's management
of people lay in the fact that whilst seeing and

hearing and fully understanding all that passed before
her, she never appeared to know what it was intended
that she should not know, or to see what it was
supposed that she had not seen. She accepted every
confidence that came in her way, but she never sought
any, and, above all, Miss Fanshawe had never been
guilty of the weakness of making a confidant on her
own account, or troubling others with regard to her
own affairs.

The peculiar position which this young lady held
in relation to her own home, was perhaps one reason
why she always appeared to better advantage in the
society of strangers, or of friends who were not intimate
with her family. The want of sympathy
between her and her mother had existed almost
from Lillian's birth ; and thus it was that, on arriving
at woman's estate, a tacit arrangement sprung up that
Lillian should visit as much from home as possible,
and that, as she was naturally well able to conduct
her own affairs, no interference would be offered in
the event of her being able to make a settlement in
life.

Mrs Leppell had shown the girl many kindnesses,
and had made Hunter's Lodge so pleasant a refuge
from the indifference and slights which she experienced
at home, that it was but natural Miss Fan-share
should take every opportunity of seeking
the society of those who so admired and appreciated
her.

It was not everybody that Colonel Leppell could

or would endure as an inmate, therefore Miss Fan-share's
visit on this particular morning was singularly
opportune. She was, in fact, the very person that
each one of the family would like to see. So it was
with unfeigned cordiality that the Colonel stepped
forth into the garden to greet this early morning-visitor.


CHAPTER V.

THE WORKING OF THE EAST WIND.

Welcome as flowers in May," called out the master
of Hunter's Lodge, coming forward and taking Miss
Fanshawe's two hands into his enormous grip. " Mrs
Leppell is not at all well ; will see you presently,
though. So you have walked out here from Yarnee.
Dined at the Braintrees' last night, Moll says ? "

Yes ; it was one of the regulation ecclesiastical
feeds which prebends are, I believe, obliged to give
when they come into residence. I was invited with
papa, and to remain the night, for the trains did not
suit our return to Pinnacles after the coffee. But we
go back this afternoon ; and so after breakfast was
over, I escaped Sarah Braintree, and walked here to
see Moll."

See Moll, indeed ! and what about Moll's father ?
You seem to forget that he always delights to welcome
a pretty girl," said the Colonel gallantly.

Of course," returned the lady, with the most
deliberate accent, "you especially ought to think

yourself fortunate to possess a friend who is thought
to resemble Mrs Leppell so strongly. I feel highly
flattered that the likeness is so universally recognised,"
continued Miss Fanshawe, turning up her eyes,
and looking as innocent as the proverbial lamb.

Haw, yes ; I admire my wife, of course  comes
naturally  belongs to me  but we all like a change,
you know. How did the dinner go off? Who was
there ? I suppose it was rather a heavy business,
eh ? "

The dinner was all very well, I suppose," returned
the girl, with the indifference of her age with regard
to this particular. "Everybody ate a good deal, I
observed. Mr Wily, judging by his looks and manner,
seemed disappointed that he could not devour
everything that was on the table."

Had you any music afterwards ? " inquired Mary.
Sarah Braintree sings."

Or fancies she does," returned Miss Fanshawe.
li Xo ; the proceedings after dinner were rather lively.
Some of the goody-goody women came in to tea, and
after that "

They never had a dance ! " interrupted Miss Lep-
pell, with profound amazement.

Dance ? no," answered her friend, with an air of
superiority. " The tea, which was a special feast for
the entertainment of these "

Ecclesiastical jackals," supplemented the Colonel.

Ecclesiastical jackals," continued the girl, gravely,
was rather a long business, for during its progress a

conference went on regarding the establishment of a
Dorcas Society in Yarnee. I was much amused at
hearing some of the experiences of these women when
collecting money for this object."

Dorcas  Dorcas. There was a very good-looking
Quakeress of that name who sold sausages in Worsted
years ago ; are they getting up a fund for her ? "
inquired the Colonel.

Oh no, papa ! " explained Miss Leppell ; " it's the
woman in the Bible "

She's been dead ages ago," answered the parent.
They are not surely going to put up a monument to
her at this time of day ! "

No, no," insisted the visitor ; " let me explain. A
Dorcas Society is the name adopted by any circle of
ladies who meet together to work for the poor. They
supply the materials, and the garments so made are
given to the most needy and deserving. Money is, of
course, required to buy the materials out of which the
clothes are made up, hence the necessity for gathering
subscriptions to establish a fund. The Society takes
its name from the charitable woman we read of in the
Bible. You remember now, don't you ? "

Yes, I think I do," answered the Colonel, hesitatingly.
" Didn't she make a little coat and show it to
somebody, and then give it to Samuel, eh ? "

You are mixing two occurrences together, Colonel.
The woman who made the one little coat was Samuel's
own mother, whereas Dorcas worked for all, whose sole
claim to help was their poverty."

Wish somebody would come and make clothing
for my family," said Colonel Leppell. " Our bills for
drapery are enough to scare a regiment. But still the
ancients were quite justified in being proud of Dorcas.
Why, it was all hand-work her industry."

The sewing-machine certainly did not exist at that
time," returned Miss Fanshawe. "But I advise you to
read up the history of Dorcas, for I fancy you will,
among others, be called upon to support this excellent
and deserving charity, as the prospectus scheme
has it."

Well, then, I won't," replied the officer ; " neither
shall Moll. The whole thing will drift into a female
gossiping club, the pious dodge covering its sins."

I can't agree with you, Colonel," returned his
visitor. " The arrangements preclude everything of
the sort ; and Mrs Braintree has, my father says,
shown great business proclivities in the way she proposes
to carry out the plan. The sewing-party will
meet once a- week only, at the house of one of the subscribers,
where vigorous stitching will go on for three
hours. During that time some interesting book will
be read aloud, the readers taking turns every half-hour."


Do you think the society would invite you to read
to its members, papa ? " inquired Mary, with an arch
look at Lillian.

Don't turn your parent into ridicule," admonished
Colonel Leppell, looking fondly at his daughter. " But
I tell you what, if they will get up a meeting for helping

poor soldiers, I would not mind taking the chair,
and making a speech "

And making a mess of the whole thing," thought
Miss Fanshawe, mentally completing the sentence.
However, she merely said, "Why not consult Mrs
Braintree ? her forte lies in getting up meetings."

Never mind the meetings now, Lillian," interposed
Miss Leppell ; " but tell us what it was that caused
you so much amusement in the proceedings of last
night."

I have already told you that it was decided to raise
money by soliciting subscriptions both in town and
country for the purpose of starting the society. Mrs
Syrop, that obsequious woman who is always talking
about her privileges, undertook, some days ago, in the
character of old inhabitant, to accompany Sarah Brain-tree,
in the character of daughter of Canon in residence,
to make a house-toulouse collection for this purpose."

Most abominable impudence !" shouted the Colonel.
The law ought to put these things down. What
right have people to invade their neighbours' houses
and bully or cajole them into giving money for carrying
on their particular whims, pious or otherwise.
They never come near Hunter's Lodge, though."

Fortunately for them," answered Miss Fanshawe.
"But where do you think these ladies did go, and that
in spite of warning and the expostulation of the
others ? "

Can't imagine : possibly to the lunatic asylum
or to the city jail."

"To neither of these. What do you think of an
invasion of Catalonia ? "

Catalonia ! What ? the residence of old Miss
Elmore ! You don't mean to tell me that they had
the effrontery to intrude upon her," exclaimed the
Colonel.

They must have known," said Mary, " that Miss
Elmore makes it a rule never to set her name down on
any subscription-list, and all begging-letters she invariably
throws into the waste-paper basket."

' Jolly old woman ! " interrupted the Colonel ; " she
gave me five pounds for my sick soldier."

Which you got because you managed to let her
know of the case without asking her for aid ; so contradiction
has its advantages sometimes. However,
our friends, knowing that when Miss Elmore does
give, she gives liberally, determined to provide her
with an opportunity of exercising her benevolence.
They set off early one morning to Catalonia, strong in
the intention of divesting Miss Elmore of five guineas,
the sum which they intended she should contribute."

Deuced cool, I think," remarked Colonel Leppell.

The ladies were admitted, and shown into a dark
oak parlour. They were kept waiting some time, but
employed themselves in inspecting the old china which
decorated that apartment. I gather from their own
admission that they yielded to the temptation of
coveting and desiring their neighbour's crockery."

"Finest collection of china in the county," said
Colonel Leppell. " I don't blame 'em for that."

"At last Miss Elmore presented herself, with the
cards, in her hand and a look of unconcealed amazement
on her face. Making a most elaborate curtsey
to each of her visitors, and waving them to be seated,
although she stood herself, she looked at the cards and
read aloud, ' Mrs Syrop and Miss Braintree,' and then
inquired, ' Pray, who may Mrs Syrop and Miss Brain-tree
be ? I have not the honour of knowing these
names.' "

Fine old lady ! " ejaculated the Colonel. " She
knew the names as well as you and I know them.
Fancy the disgust of Miss Braintree  haw ! "

The ladies seem to have been very much repelled
by this reception," Miss Fanshawe continued ; " but
after a moment's silence, Mrs Syrop, as the elder and
the matron, explained their position and their mission.
She pleaded the cause of the Dorcas Society, and
avowed her conviction that Miss Elmore, both as a
woman and a Christian, could not reject its claims."

That was very well put," said Mary.

"dorcas, Dorcas!' at length answered the old
lady ; ' do you mean to tell me, Mrs Syrop and Miss
Braintree, that you have the presumption to compare
yourselves with that good woman we read of in the
Scriptures ?  a woman who kept at home and minded
her sewing, and never, I am sure, routed up strangers
at unearthly hours in the morning.' "

What did they say ? How very uncomfortable
they must have felt ! " said Mary Leppell.

"They disclaimed, of course, all intention of comparing

themselves with Dorcas, but averred that they
would like in a humble way to imitate her ; and they
ventured to appeal to Miss Elmore to supply the funds
to enable them to carry out their aspirations. Their
humility was of no avail. Miss Elmore waved her
hand and replied, ' I give my alms to whom I please,
and  there's the door.' So saying, she walked out, and
left the couple plants la. You may imagine," continued
Miss Fanshawe, "the indignation with which this
story was received last night, and the comments thereupon.
I assure you, it made the evening quite lively."

Here comes Botheroo ! " exclaimed the Colonel. " I
suppose Mrs Leppell will see Miss Eanshawe now ? "
he continued, turning towards that personage.

mrs Leppell is taking some beef-tea, sir; but she
would be glad if Miss Fanshawe would look in upon
my mistress for a few moments. Lady Asher feels it
quite lonely, for nobody has been to sit with her this
morning."

Of course Miss Fanshawe would be delighted, but
said that she must not remain long ; she had promised
to be back for the Braintrees' luncheon, which was at
half-past one o'clock. Mary accompanied her friend,
but as yet there had been neither time nor opportunity
for the girls to have a chat, only Miss Leppell had
managed to intimate that she had something particular
to say to Lillian. " Walk back part of the way with
me," said Miss Fanshawe, in an undertone, in reply ;
you can have it all out comfortably then : now for
grandmamma."

A visit to Lady Asher was not a very lively entertainment
in itself ; she was one of those women who
never read, never worked, and had very little conversation
of any sort.

Dressed as became her time of life, by the taste and
common-sense of her maid, she often sat for hours in
the same position, with a hand-screen shading her face
in the winter from the fire, in the summer from the
sun ; and if she did contemplate any object in particular,
it must have been the portrait of her late husband,
which hung above the mantelpiece. Perhaps,
also, the old lady felt comfort and security in the
knowledge that her son-in-law seldom entered her
apartments, and that to lie upon her sofa and be still
was a luxury which Mrs Leppell could generally
count upon, when the Colonel was more than usually
overbearing and quarrelsome. Here did Henrietta,
by the favour of Prothero, hold interviews with
her lover, and arrange for her flight and marriage,
after having vainly attempted to induce her father to
bestow the consent which he had at first given and
then withdrawn. Lady Asher had, in her passive
way, however, done much to alleviate the numerous
trials which were the outcome of her daughter's marriage
with Colonel Leppell ; and if this lady had never
actually expressed regret for the manner in which she
had brought about this union, it was evident that
she did her best, in late years especially, to atone to
Adelaide for the great wrong which she had prompted
her to commit. Her ladyship had paid pretty dearly

for the honour of the Hieover alliance, inasmuch as
more than half her fortune had been absorbed in loans
to Colonel Leppell, and the frequent payment of his
debts, all of which was accepted as a matter of course.
At length common prudence, in the person of Prothero
for councillor, and legal restraint, by the action of a
firm of lawyers, who, seizing a moment of exasperation,
opportunely improved that occasion for Lady Asher's
especial benefit, combined to sink the greater part of
what remained of her fortune in the purchase of a large
annuity, leaving what represented about one hundred
a-year for her ladyship to be further cajoled or bullied
out of. But the worm had turned ; and as the legal
advisers had succeeded in convincing their client that
to give or lend one farthing more would be but a preliminary
step to the workhouse and a beggar's grave,
Lady Asher henceforth adopted and played the role of
genteel pauper with great success.

You can tell Ralph, with my compliments," said the
old lady to her daughter, after enduring that gentleman's
reproaches for what he was pleased to term her
underhand conduct for the space of half an hour, " that
as long as he behaves himself he shall enjoy the proceeds
of my annuity in payment for my accommodation,
and so forth, at Hunter's Lodge. He can visit me
now and then during the week, if he likes ; but I will
hear no more of bills and demands for money,  I am
too poor now, and must take to wearing old clothes.
Oh, Adelaide ! just think what your dear father would
say, if he could look up and see me wearing an old

black silk, with its rents covered up by means of
bands of broad velvet, and after leaving all his money
entirely at my disposal too ! "

All that Adelaide could do was to reply that she
was very sorry, and express her thankfulness that her
father had made her own settlement so stringent, 
but you know, mother," she said one day, " I give up
every penny of my income; I only get what Ralph
chooses to let me have : but I will put up with anything
for peace's sake." In these confidences never
had the name of Everard Glascott passed the lips
of either lady : they heard of him indirectly, at long
intervals, and Lady Asher sometimes wondered if
her daughter, in her heart, regretted her early love ;
but this reflection only glimmered on Lady Asher 's
soul after the blazon of the Hieover connection had
become dim, and the pressure of lack of money was
casting a shadow over both their lives. Then the
mother thought of Everard Glascott, and confessed
that she had done the thing which she ought not
to have done. Of this, however, she never spoke, and
even Prothero only knew that Adelaide had not
married her first love, and that Colonel Leppell,
according to both these ladies, had not fulfilled the
promise of his earlier days.

As it generally befalls those persons who give a
great deal of trouble, and are the cause of universal
anxiety, those around Lady Asher were most devoted,
not only in sparing her any inconvenience to
which her infirmity of severe lameness might expose

her, but also in saving her from annoyance and agitation
of every description ; and if it were imperative
that any adverse or uncomfortable communication
must be made to her, Prothero was invariably delegated
to perform this duty. She knew the old lady's
ways, it was urged, and exactly what to say and what
to leave unsaid. Mrs Leppell often made use of Pro-there's
services in the like event, because she thereby
escaped the indignant commentaries which both mistress
and maid were wont to pour forth when Colonel
Leppell's " difficulties " were the subject of consideration.


After all, Ralph is fond of me after his own
fashion," the wife argued to herself, " and those people
in the wing are sometimes too hard on him," 
those people in the wing " having special reference to
Lady Asher and her maid, together with their habitat.

Mrs Leppell had already told Prothero as much as
she thought fit concerning Duke and the unsuccessful
issue of his elopement. She limited her confidence at
this point, and begged the attendant to convey this
piece of news to grand mamma, and to tell the old lady
that she would talk the matter over with her at her
early dinner, at which she would join her at two
o'clock. Mrs Leppell alleged that it was the visit
of the officer of the Chancery Court which had
made her ill, and also the severity of the east wind.
Don't alarm my mother into coining to see me,"
she continued, " but go into the garden and ask Miss
Fanshawe to visit her before she comes to me."

VOL. I. G

Very well, ma'am," Prothero replied, not believing
a word about the east wind, and feeling convinced
that something more than the elopement must figure
in the sum of Duke's iniquities.

The extraordinary clause in the morning prayers
which had been introduced for that young gentleman's
especial benefit had been repeated to Prothero with
wonderful accuracy ; and this, together with his
mother's great distress, convinced her that Mameluke
had stolen or pawned some of the regimental
plate in order to pay the expenses of the wedding-tour.
Like the majority of her sex, Prothero was apt
to jump at conclusions, but she rarely allowed her
conclusions to jump beyond her own brain  a piece of
wisdom which many women would do well to imitate.

Miss Panshawe, accompanied by Mary, paid her
visit to grand mamma, and was cordially welcomed
by that lady, who was always glad to see her, for she
reminded her of what Adelaide had been in her early
years. Lady Asher's infirmity prevented her getting
about at pleasure, and she was always gratified when
youth and freshness came to seek her. The girls had
brought some early spring flowerets in with them 
flowerets so scarce yet, that a whole bunch of one
kind could not be collected together ; but sweet
violets, and here and there a ball of the delicate
hepatica, which had early put forth its head in thankfulness
for being planted under a sunny wall, in company
with their delicate sister primrose, told the sweet

story that the winter was gone, and that colour and
greenness had begun to deck the earth. No wonder
that the breath of Spring incensed the aged lady's
room, as these fair girls brought with them the blessing
of her children, the new-born flowers.

So they talk cheerfully, and G. M. (as she is familiarly
abbreviated by her descendants) hears with
considerable gusto the story of old Miss Elmore and
the Dorcas Society's pioneers. Lady Asher has no
ill-feeling towards the present people who take the
lead in society ; but she thoroughly enjoys, with her
silent laugh, the fact that one of her own generation
is well up to the mark, and is so much better able to
take care of her purse than she herself had been.
There was also a point gained in the suppression of
Sarah Braintree, however short that suppression
might be. The Canon's daughter had once been
taken into the " wing " of Hunter's Lodge, and that
visit resulted in Lady Asher pronouncing Sarah to
be an audacious young female, and a disgrace to the
cloth ; and further, in insisting that under no circumstances
whatever must the said . audacious female be
allowed to again enter that portion of the house. No
wonder, then, that on this particular morning Miss
Fanshawe's advent was especially acceptable.

Prothero soon comes with a message from Mrs
Leppell to the effect that she is sorry to hurry Miss
Fanshawe, but that time is getting on, and she much
wishes to see that young lady alone. Miss Fanshawe

rises to take leave, and Mary says in a low voice,
"Mamma wants to tell you about me, so I'll stay
here. Let me know when you go, as I can walk part
of the way back with you, as I proposed to do  that
is, if you really can't stay ? "

"Impossible, my dear. It was really good of Mrs
Braintree to excuse me, and I promised to return to
luncheon : besides, if I am not punctual, papa would
not take me out with him again, and I enjoy visiting
with him alone, he is always so much nicer without
mamma." This was said in a sweet equable tone,
quite as a matter of course ; and then Miss Fanshawe
took her leave.

 Very superior girl that," remarked the old lady,
looking after her. " Now, my dear, Prothero is busy
getting up my laces and spring things, so I would be
glad if you would arrange the room a little, and put
those flowers in water, and see to the hyacinths ; they
are beginning to sprout, and want a little water added
in their glasses. Your father takes all the newspapers
into that horrid den of his. I wish he would leave
the ' Illustrated ' alone ; that is my own private paper,
and I hate looking at pictures smelling of tobacco 
nasty, low, vulgar habit  I mean smoking in a room ;
but I suppose ' dens ' of all kinds are more or less
objectionable. And, by the way, I wish you would
write to Furnish about my new bonnet ; it must be
made of good material, and to cover my head. / am
not going about with a rosette of lace for crown, and a
lily and a string for finish, as so many old hags nowadays

are so fond of doing. It's wicked, my dear,
and the Government ought to interfere, and shut up
these old women."

Anything more about the bonnet, grand mamma ? "

Only that it is not to be very expensive," returned
the senior lady. " I can't afford fine clothes nowadays,
but I will look respectable and like my time of life.
Here comes Prothero with my glass of wine and biscuit.
I am glad to get it, Prothero," continued Lady
Asher, as the attendant placed the tray on the table ;
but you might have had the sense to bring some hot
water. The wind is in the east, and it pierces me
through. No wonder Mrs Leppell has to remain in
bed. Put some more wood on the fire, and get me a
wrapping-shawl, please. And is there no soup ? I
would rather have soup to-day ; just see if there is
any nearly ready."

Prothero avowed there was none even in progress 
Mrs Leppell had been content with beef-tea. The maid
continued, " But I will go and get some hot water,
and add a little wine to this, my lady. This weather
upsets everybody ; even Miss Mary there is not looking
her best."

The additional comfort being brought, Prothero
speedily vanished, fearful of being detained on other
service ; for, as Dick Leppell remarked on one occasion,
G. M. could find work out of nothing for two
stout niggers, and never think then that she had got
enough waiting out of them.

The ' Illustrated ' being found, happily, in an immaculate

state, its owner sunk back into her chair,
turning over the engravings of that newspaper with
deliberation, and enjoying the refreshments which
were daily brought to her at half-past eleven o'clock.
Mary, feeling convinced that the east wind was the
cause of her grandmother's being so exacting on this
morning, set to work to obey the old lady's behests,
rather pleased than otherwise that occupation had
been supplied her which would in no wise disturb the
current of her thoughts.

It often happens that when the body is fully active,
the spirit acts in unison and works freely ; and as we
none of us can properly reflect or meditate to order,
outside distractions often come in friendly guise, and,
by setting the exterior case in motion, give play to the
machinery which is pent up within. The girl fulfilled
all her relative's injunctions with the greatest
accuracy ; but her mind was concentrated on one sole
subject, and the burden of it was this : " In spite of
all mamma said, I am sure she wishes me to accept
Mr Clavering. What can be the reason ? Everybody
hitherto has always talked as if I were to be a grand-duchess
at least."

Whilst Mary is wondering and weighing her own
inclinations and her duty, and hoping in all her innocence
and truth that the Father in heaven will guide
her aright, Lillian Fanshawe is in deep conference
with Mrs Leppell ; and as the east wind has affected
the Colonel so strongly that he has been obliged to
seek refreshment in the shape of good warm ale in the

privacy of his den, that gentleman leaves his wife's
room as soon as he has seen Miss Fanshawe safely
within that apartment.

It is not often that I am to be found in bed at
this hour, Lillian," said Mrs Leppell, smiling and trying
to look at ease ; " but I have not been well for
some time, and this east wind has, I think, got quite
a hold upon me. I am so glad you have come, for I
want to speak to you about Mary."

Moll gave me a hint that you had something to
say to me about her," Miss Fanshawe replied ; " but
she had no opportunity of giving me a clue to the
subject. However, where Moll is concerned, it is easy
to draw a conclusion, so I will say at once that I shall
be truly, heartily delighted to be taken in to dinner
some day behind Lady Willows."

The girl's eyes, bright with right goodwill and
friendship, arrested Mrs Leppell's attention, and she
involuntarily congratulated herself that Mary had so
staunch a friend  so genuine and so free from envy,
the good lady thought. She even felt regret at having
to tell her visitor how far wide of the mark her conclusions
had fallen.

You are wrong, Lillian," she said, after a moment's
pause. " The Willows event has been predicted and
expected by more than yourself ; but it has turned to
moonshine. Lord Willows has paid Mary a good deal
of attention certainly, but he has never gone further
than that. I think myself that he has been trying to
spin out the time till he could come forward with propriety.

You know he has been hardly seven months
a widower, and it would be scarcely the thing to make
marriage proposals so much within the year. However,
that does not matter, for Moll no more cares for
Lord Willows than she cares for any other Tom, Dick,
or Harry."

I can believe that," Lillian answered ; " but I
had no idea that there was any one else seriously in
the field, and the Colonel evidently favoured Lord
Willows."

Oh, the Colonel," replied his wife ; " one never can
quite depend upon him  these matters go just as the
whim seizes him. He encouraged Lord Willows and
made a fuss about him, more to keep off ineligible
than anything else, and he had taken into his head
that Mary must marry a title, or at least some one
with a handle to his name. Now the man who has
actually proposed for Mary has no handle to his name,
and circumstances oblige us both to be thankful that
she holds this gentleman in some esteem, at any rate.
Now, Lillian dear, you have so much influence with the
child, and she has such faith in your opinion, that I
want you to talk this over and induce her to accept
Mr Clavering at once."

Clavering ! " replied Miss Fanshawe, with a perceptible
start of surprise  " Clavering ; not that gentleman,
surely, who was visiting in the county last
autumn, and who is rather celebrated as a scientific
lecturer ? "

The same. Of course it is not a good match ; but

you will understand, when I tell you all, why it is
imperative that the engagement must take place. Our
reasons are most cogent; and Mr Clavering is to be
here in the afternoon."

Here this afternoon ? " the girl repeated mechanically
 " here this afternoon, did you say ? "

Yes ; he only arrived in Yarnee last night. We
had letters this morning."

It seems  sudden," returned Lillian. " Oh, I am
so cold ; this east wind has chilled me. Let me sit,
please, where that ray of sun is slanting ; it is more
genial than the fire."

Why, Lillian, you are as pale as death. Being, and
order some hot wine and water. I ought to have
thought of it, for you have been a long time walking
and going from place to place. Oh, I hear the Colonel !
he said he would come back, for he wants to speak to
you about Duke. There's trouble about him  Duke,
I mean  and we knew we could tell you, and trust
you about everything."

The Colonel came in, and his first observation was
directed to the face of his visitor. " You have caught
a chill, Lillian," he said. " I will go and fetch you a
glass of sherry."

No, no," the girl answered ; " I would rather you
would mull me some of your elder wine, and let me
have it strong and hot. Lady Asher's room is always
kept so warm, and I think I feel the difference of
temperature from being so much in the air."

The Colonel was an adept at concocting this mixture,

which should be always simmered in a silver
saucepan. This utensil had been used lately for
warming some mess for the bull-terrier pup, and had
to be routed out of the den and cleaned before
it could be made to serve its legitimate purpose.
Bother this east wind ! " the kitchen-maid had exclaimed,
when called upon to furbish the silver
saucepan and bring it to Mrs Leppell's room. " I
can't think what ails the people,  the Colonel must
needs have warm ale, on account of the east wind,
and have it warmed with a red-hot poker stood upright
in the middle of the jug : what next, I am
wondering ? "

11 Never you mind," replied the cook, " but do as
you are told, and be quick about it. East wind is
very bad for us all : my back is splitting with pain, 
I think I shall follow the Colonel's example ; so put
the poker into the fire, and I will have some warm
ale to keep the wind out too."

Time and patience brought the pan and the necessary
ingredients for making mulled elder wine. A
good tumbler of this most excellent and simple restorative
completely revived Miss Fanshawe, and she
was able to receive the confidence of her friends with
becoming interest and attention. Still she was very
silent, and did not express even ordinary astonishment
at the recital of Duke's evil doings.

You are horrified at what I am telling you," Mrs
Leppell said, " but you are too good to say so. Now
you see," she continued, " why I want you to get

Mary to accept Mr Clavering at once ; there must be
no delay about it, you perceive."

Does Mary know anything about this bank business
\ " Lillian inquired, after reflecting a little.

Not a word," the Colonel interrupted. " They
all know there is something amiss with Duke, but, of
course, that I shall put down to the elopement entirely.
If the bank affair could only be hushed up, I
am not so afraid of the other case after all,  that is
only contempt of Court  haw ! "

Yes ; but contempt of the Court of Chancery is
rather more serious than you seem to think. I do
not wish to alarm you unnecessarily," continued Miss
Fanshawe, whose colour had now returned, "but I
must tell you that Duke has committed himself most
egregiously. A circumstance of this kind took place
a few years ago in my mother's family, and as it
was much discussed when I was at home during a
vacation, I am not mistaken in what I now tell you.
The gentleman in the case to which I refer eloped
with a ward of Chancery, and married her in some
church or chapel, somehow and somewhere. The
couple were surprised before they could reach the
Continent, and they were compelled to go through the
marriage ceremony again, with proper witnesses, by
order of the Court. After that, the lady was sent to
the care of some especially appointed guardian, and
the bridegroom was imprisoned for nine months.
Furthermore, the lady's money was so settled that the
husband could never touch it, or make it available for

his own purposes in any way ; and I believe he could
only enjoy as much of the income as his wife chose to
allow him during her life. At the termination of the
imprisonment, the gentleman was required to make an
apology to the Court for his contempt, and he was
lectured and rebuked in the most severe manner
at the same time. In fact, the course of humiliation
which the bridegroom underwent would require
a life of devotion on the part of his wife to
atone for."

But this girl went off with Duke of her own
accord,  of course she did," answered the Colonel,
argumentatively.

Very likely ; but that makes no difference in the
eye of the law. She is not of age, and till then she
cannot marry, I am almost certain, without the Lord
Chancellor's consent."

If Duke could manage to get off abroad somewhere,
and hide till the girl comes of age," inquired
Mrs Leppell, " do you think the Court of Chancery
could touch him ? "

I cannot say ; but would not such a proceeding
oblige him to leave the army ? No ; my humble
advice is, let your son surrender himself at once to
the Court of Chancery and abide the result. His
offence is not a crime, and imprisonment on this
account would not oblige him to lose caste in society.
The more you think of it, the clearer you will perceive
the utter folly of an escape out of the country, even

if it could be effected successfully. His wife would be
prevented from joining him, and until she came of
age, his would be a life of subterfuge without any
compensating result. Depend upon it, the more
politic plan will be for Duke to surrender himself at
once."

CHAPTER VI.

THE BANKS OF THE YAR.

So counselled this young Daniel, and the two grownup
children who listened pondered over and weighed
her words as if a Queen's Counsel was pleading before
them.

During a pause the husband and wife conjointly
avowed their utter ignorance of the law. Mrs Leppell
was sure that her son had no intention of treating the
Lord Chancellor with disrespect ; the Colonel could
answer for Duke that he did not know that dignitary
by sight.

"You had better consult a lawyer immediately,"
Miss Fanshawe urged. "Mind," continued she, "I
have only given you an account of what happened
within my own knowledge ; in some of the details I
may be in error. I am, however, certain of one thing,
and that is, that contempt of the Court of Chancery is
far more serious than any other kind of contempt. It
is sad to hear so dreadful an account of my old playfellow,
Duke ; but exposure may be prevented if

matters are well managed. As to Moll, if she have
no other preference, she will not require much persuasion
to carry out your wishes."

She has no other preference, I feel assured," said
Mrs Leppell ; " and now you understand, Lillian, why
I so much desire your assistance in this matter. It
will never do to allow it even to be hinted afterwards
that we had pressed Mary on account of her brother's
difficulties ; that is the reason that she is ignorant of
all beyond the annoyance of the elopement. Did she
know all, she would accept "

Old Nick himself," interpolated Colonel Leppell.

Not quite so bad as that," the wife replied with a
dreary smile ; " but Moll is proud, and I feel sure that
even if this Mr Clavering were repugnant to her, she
would consent to marry him in order to save the
family honour. You see, Lillian, how we are situated
that we cannot say very much to Mary in the way
of guiding her choice ; we must be thankful to know
that her opinion of this gentleman is very favourable,
and that you, Lillian, dear, have spoken of him in such
high terms of commendation."

Not more than he deserves," the girl replied, flushing
crimson. " I certainly had very little opportunity '
of seeing Mr Clavering, but that little convinced me
that he is a man of very high culture and worth, and
that any lady might be proud of receiving his addresses
; I mean, that he is not of the general admiration
sort,  and that," continued Miss Fanshawe, "is a
quality not to be lightly esteemed. It is too much

the fashion for men to make love all round. This
one, as far as I can judge, would despise such nonsense."


I am glad to hear you say this, Lillian," continued
the mother. "Mary is so tender, so pure, it would
break her heart if the man she married should turnout
unsteady, or be flirting about with any one who
would flirt with him. Ah ! I hope it will all end
well."

Deuced bad match ! " burst out the Colonel,
steady or not steady : cool head, I should imagine,
judging from his epistle. Hang it, Adelaide, I would
not have cared so much if he had not belonged to 
to  you know who. Talk about dispensations of
Providence  haw ! these dispensations come rather
awkwardly sometimes. Well, I, like the rest, must
make the best of this bad business ; but I feel that I
am a regular victim  indeed I do. You may smile,
Lillian ; but I tell you I am a victim to my family,
old and young."

"Well, Colonel, we none of us can have our own
way all the days of our life," replied his guest, slowly.
We must all learn to give up for others ; nothing
comes right in the world, I do believe. Now, I must
be off, for it is half-past twelve, and this just leaves
me bare time to reach the College precincts. Papa
will be so cross if I am not punctual ; the east wind
always tries his temper. Mary will be ready and
waiting by this time."

Which road are you going to take ? " asked Colonel

Leppell, as he walked down the gravel drive and
opened the gate for the girls to pass through.

As I was alone, I came by the highroad," replied
Miss Fanshawe ; " but could not Moll and I walk part
of the way by the river bank ?  we are both so fond of
that route into Yarnee. We might go as far as the
turnstile, and then when we part we can strike off
there, and each regain the highroad."

 Very good ; but mind, you are not to go farther
by the river than the turnstile at  somebody's meadows
 you know ; that portion of the river-side just
into Yarnee is not a nice place for ladies  too near the
town and the shipping," said Colonel Leppell. " Moll,
you had better return home when you reach that
point ; or, if you like to walk farther, do so, but don't
go into the town. Take your time and your chat ; I
will come and meet you."

Thus giving his orders, Colonel Leppell re-entered
the house, and went straight to his den ; and his wife
laid herself back on her pillow, and set herself to consider
what would be best to be done should the event
now in train not come to a satisfactory issue.

Reviewing the confidence which she had reposed in
her young friend, Mrs Leppell regretted that it had
been so ample and so unrestrained ; in fact, she perceived
that she had placed herself and her whole
family very much in Lillian Fanshawe's power, by the
communication she had made concerning Duke's evil
dealing with Cracky Winton's cheque. " You govern
the unspoken word ; the spoken word governs you,"

VOL. I. H

was a wise Arabian proverb which jumped to her
mind, as she reviewed this portion of her confidence,
and it had at the particular juncture the usual effect
of coming with a warning when the mischief was done.

Yet, why associate the idea of mischief and warning
with the conversation that had just taken place ? Lillian
was attached to the family ; " and at one time " 
the mother argued to herself  " at one time I thought
the girl had a very strong liking for Duke " (a most
egregious delusion). " At all events, if it is only
friendship, that would lead her to screen his sins : she
seems willing also to use her influence with Mary."

Still, reason and ponder as she did, Mrs Leppell's
mind was pervaded with the one dominant idea, and
that was, that harm would eventually arise out of all
this secrecy and management. Her own married life
had been little else than a series of troubles and of
keeping up appearances, and she trembled to think
that Mary's wedded life should begin with a disgraceful
secret, hushed up by what looked very like a
barter or positive sale. But why should Mrs Leppell
regret the confidence which she had so fully reposed
in Miss Fanshawe ? Had not her husband cooperated
with her in laying bare the trouble of their
hearts, and to one, too, who had often told them that
her own chief happiness consisted in coming to their
house as to a home ? Why should she regret having
told all ? half confidences are far more dangerous thana
whole revelation. Comforting herself with this last
truism, and putting the subject from her mind as

being derogatory and insulting to her daughter's
friend, the poor lady fell into a sound sleep.

Those who know the world  those whose career has
been mostly through its tangled bowers and thorny
paths  can most thoroughly understand the meaning
of Mrs Leppell's doubts and apprehensions.

When we review our own past experience, does not
the miserable recollection come back to many of us,
that a certain misplaced confidence, wrung out at the
time by the pressure of the soul's agony, has been
more surely the cause of our subsequent undoing than
many of the false steps which we have taken, more or
less deliberately, trusting to chance for deliverance,
but of which we have never made mention by word or
sign, even to our nearest and dearest ?

A social safety-valve is a treasure not to be undervalued,
but the difficulty lies in choosing when and
where we should use the machine. The experience of
life so often shows us that we are prudent in the
wrong direction ; and when this virtue appears to be of
no avail, or to be thoroughly cast out, we rush into
the opposite extreme and pour out our wrongs and
our sufferings, for the exquisite pleasure of obtaining
human sympathy. The mistake consists in assuming
that the sympathy we thus obtain will endure for
life ; we forget that other men and women are but
mortal ; we ignore the frailty of human nature, the
shadows and lights of passing circumstances, and the
general tendency of all of us to inconsistency of
thought and action. The poet tells us that love bears

within itself the very germ of change : much more
does friendship do so, especially when friendship is
not of equal growth.

The young are somewhat apt to regard the confidences
of their elders either as an outcome of senility
or, more frequently perhaps, as a quid pro quo for
some service which, either sooner or later, may be
required of them, or some assistance which it would
be convenient that they should render. Not un-seldom,
in the rashness of the early tide of life, it is
assumed that the elder person confiding has no other
option in the choice of a confidant. And this idea
very much militates against the sacredness and inviolability
of the charge ; and on all sides the wiseman's
axiom is too generally ignored, " He that is of a
faithful spirit concealed the matter." As long as the
world lasts, it will be a point of great nicety to ascertain
in many cases where frankness should end and
where reticence should begin, and vice versa.

The two girls, after receiving their instructions,
walked briskly forward, and only relaxed their pace
as they reached the banks of the Yar. This branch
of the river winds prettily from the town of Yarnee
into the country beyond, and the walk to the village
of Blythe, and to others farther inland, is at all
points thoroughly rural and interesting. At this
season, although the weather was sharp, and the livery
of green very feebly indicated, still the imperceptible
sensation of returning life and freshness permeated
the atmosphere and tinted the scene. A clump of

primroses in a curve of the bank, brown branches and
twigs dotted with tufts of undeveloped leafage, and
here and there a pronounced outburst of the wild
daffodil,  the dear daffodowndilly, which in old simple
belief was the herald of an early Easter-tide,  these,
with the chirp of a bird and the distant wail of a
lamb, told the old-world tale that the winter was gone,
and that spring, with her fresh loveliness and her
gleams of uncertain mood, had placed one foot securely
on this portion of the earth.

Well," said Mary, looking straight into the river,
I suppose mamma has told you all about me : don't
you think this offer is rather sudden ? I have not
seen Mr Clavering for more than a month ; and look
here, Lillian, I do think he might have taken the
trouble to find out how I regard his attentions before
he wrote to the governor, asking for me as if I were a
chattel to be handed over when my parents think
proper : what do you say ? "

I must answer you by a quotation from a copy-book
slip, my dear  ' Circumstances alter cases ; ' and
here the quotation fits in to the case exactly. You
know the Colonel has always given out that he
must have rank and fortune for his daughters, and
Mr Clavering, like a wise man, secured the fortune
before he ventured to propose. Then again, you
know, dear, how your father rages and storms if any
ineligible ventures within his gates, especially during
his absences from home, and how your mother suffers
for it."

Ah yes, poor mother ! but Henrietta's husband
managed differently ; he got my sister's consent first.
I wish I had seen more of Mr Clavering : he is always
very attentive and very pleasant ; but latterly I have
not even met him. All this makes it very difficult
for me to decide."

You know, Moll," returned her friend, " that a
family feud, or something like that, prevented Mr
Clavering from bringing letters of introduction to
your immediate family."

But he was a visitor at Hieover."

True, but Mr Clavering was first introduced there
as a member of the Geological Society : the whole
batch of these wiseacres were invited to the luncheon
which your grandfather gave in their honour. I
conclude Lord Hieover and your uncle Alick were
charmed with Mr Clavering, for he went there again
and dined en ami, and I think stayed a day or so. It
is not probable that Mr Clavering troubled his head
about the family feud, especially as your grandfather
had nothing to do with it, and your uncle had forgotten
it apparently. Besides, the name of Mr
Clavering's guardian (one of the original foes) is different
; he is an old cousin of the name of Glascott."

Glascott !  I have heard that name," said Mary.
Now I think of it, it belongs to somebody whom grand-mamma
dislikes : there was some writing in an old
album, I remember, signed by that name, but the page
has been torn out for a very long time."

I had better tell you, Mary, that this Mr Glascott

was once very fond of your mamma, and your father
was preferred before him."

How do you know that Mr Clavering secured the
fortune before proposing for fine ? " asked Mary, suddenly.


Simply, my dear, because your mother told me so.
There has been some communication with this Mr
Glascott, but as you have not been made aware of it,
you had better remain ignorant of the circumstance.
You know, by Mr Clavering's letter to your father, that
Mr Glascott is in Yarnee at this moment ? "

Of course ; I hardly read the letter to the governor
through, and the np.me is not mentioned in mine. One
thing, if I accept Mr Clavering, it will be the means of
reconciling my parents and Mr Glascott  there's comfort
in that," and the girl brightened like a sun-glint
as she spoke.

He's a first-rate man, Moll, there is not a doubt
about that," Miss Fanshawe said, " and worth a dozen
of the sprigs of nobility and genteel youngsters one
finds scattered on one's path. It is not necessary to
tell you either, that though not handsome, Mr Clavering
is far better bred, both in looks and manners, than
is Lord Willows."

Lord Willows ! little donkey ! "

A man that you can look up to "

For advice  he's tall enough," answered Miss Lep-
pell.

And hold in respect," continued the young mentor.

Yes, and ask his leave if I may or may not waltz.

He quite allows dancing to our sex, that's one comfort ;
but I remember Mr Clavering saying something one
evening  it was at a party of Mrs Frisky's of Matron
to the effect that he very much doubted the propriety
of the waltz for girls. I fancy, Lillian, that he
rather overcomes the ' dignified.' I don't mind a little
of this article ; but when it is combined with great
cleverness, I begin to feel rather alarmed."

I don't think you have anything to fear from that,"
Miss Fanshawe said. " Depend upon it, the dignity is
natural ; men of real science or goodness never affect
shams. What a dreadful spectacle it is to confront a
born fool ' doing the dignified ' ; "  and here the speaker
instanced and illustrated an example of this art with
so much aplomb, that Mary Leppell laughed till the
moisture glistened in her eyes.

Who would believe you were so good an imitator,
or ought I to say, imitates ? we are getting so
grammatical nowadays. I should have recognised our
friend anywhere. By the way, I wonder if Mr Clavering
would approve of this sort of thing. I should say
that he would not," said Miss Leppell.

"That depends upon how, when, and where such
and such things are done. If my opinion be correct,
Mr Clavering is just the man to discriminate in these
cases,  that is to say, between a little harmless fun
and downright vulgar mimicry. He has a great deal
of fun in himself, in a quiet way, I feel sure."

I wish I could be certain that he is nice and reliable
at home," answered Moll ; " these clever learned

people, it is said, are always more pleasant abroad than
in their own houses."

All nonsense,  part and parcel of ignorant prejudice,
 don't believe that, Moll. Mr Clavering, you
must see, is well-bred and agreeable ; why should his
being a scientific man stand in the way of his being
domestic and kind ? I am sure," continued Miss
Fanshawe, with the greatest coolness, " your governor,
as you all call him, is neither learned nor scientific ;
but that does not prevent him from being very tiresome
and rapacious at times, good-hearted as he is."

No ; but papa is horsey, and he never in his life
has had enough money, and the two together are enough
to try the spirit of an angel," replied Colonel Leppell's
illogical fair daughter. " Nevertheless, in spite of all
his storming, the clear old governor is, as you know,
very kind-hearted. You should have seen what a way
he was in when Diamond, the old hunter, died  that
horse was like one of the family. Yes, papa has his
whims, but he is full of good feeling."

That he is," answered Lillian ; " both your father
and mother are so tender and loving for their children.
Just look how Duke has behaved, and they have
scarcely reproached him  doing all they can, in fact,
to make excuses for him and pay his debts. If my
father were in Colonel Leppell's place, I really don't
know what he would do."

Oh, Mr Fanshawe is a clergyman, and, of course,
he would have to think of the example to his flock and
all that, and his Christian duty would make him

severe," replied Mary, with the most charming simplicity.
" But then, you know, all fathers and mothers
are kind to their own children, some in one way and
some in another; but what is so delightful in my
father is, that he never forgets that he has not been
steady himself, and so he makes allowances for other
people. I know your mother is very hard to you,
Lillian dear, but I don't think she means to be unkind."


Perhaps not, but the effects are the same," Lillian
answered. " She has never forgiven me for not being
a boy : it seems it was my duty to be masculine, as
the eldest child, and I failed in doing my duty. Do
you know, Mary, that I cannot recollect my mother
having once embraced me, or showing me once any
loving-kindness ; a cold dab on the forehead, called a
kiss, has now and then been bestowed on me, when
she could not in common decency do otherwise. I am
sure papa is grieved about it, but she quite governs
him, and he thinks it better to let things go their
own way. Men seem to me to be great cowards in
domestic matters, generally speaking, and those with
large families think it best, I suppose, to avoid much
trouble, for peace's sake."

Well, you may soon have your own remedy," said
Mary in reply. " What have I heard about one Percival
La Touche, eh ? "

A great deal that is mere conjecture, Moll," replied
her friend. " It will be quite time enough to
think about him as an admirer when he declares himself

as such. This he has not done ; and since he has
come into his fortune, his self-conceit is something
awful. No, no ; believe that Percival La Touche
comes down from London now and then to see his
aunt, because his father has not time to do so, and
does not care to come in contact with his imbecile
sister. The old gentleman told papa as much when
he paid the rent last Christmas."

I can't say I admire Percival La Touche much,"
returned Mary ; " he seems to think that every girl is
on the look-out for him, and I daresay he is dreadful
now that he has got all that money from his uncle.
Still, I thought he was very agreeable to your mother,
and she was wonderfully gracious to him, when I last
saw them together."

Very likely : my mother, under all her appearance
of independence, is a regular tuft-hunter at heart,  no
one knows better than she how to keep on good terms
with persons of money or position. Her tactics are
different, though, from those of the world in general ;
she is generally most piquant and rude to those she
most wishes to conciliate. As it is, she is civil to the
La Touches, because they have a good London house,
and mix much in society. I see through it all : weare
poor, and my mother would like Percival La
Touche for either Eose, Etta, or myself,  no matter
which, only let one of us be got off. There is one
thing  no son-in-law need dread any interference from
her ; she would only be too thankful to him for relieving
her of a daughter."

Thank goodness my mother is so soft and tender,"
replied Mary. " I know at this moment that she fears
to advise me to marry, in case my happiness may be
endangered. She would not interfere, but she would
love her son-in-law for her daughter's sake, dear
mother ! "

The girls had strayed away from the legitimate
subject of their conversation, and Miss Fanshawe
seemed more than usually inclined to speak of her
home-life. She had already made the resolve that
now, should Percival La Touche come forward as her
suitor, she would not say him nay ; moreover, she
would be generous, and stifle her rising affection for
this stranger, Mr Clavering, and do her best to secure
the desire of his eyes for that fascinating gentleman.
She now resolutely returned to the subject of Mary's
offer of marriage, and very strongly persuaded her
friend that, by accepting it, a great load would
be taken off the minds of both her parents. She
urged Marmaduke's debts as being a great drain
upon them,  "and you know, Mary," she continued,
this elopement business will in its way cause much
expense and annoyance. To see you in a good position,
and married to a man with such a brilliant
name, will, I am sure, be a great comfort to both your
parents. I know your father looked much higher for
you, dear ; but you are a queen in yourself, and you
don't seek wealth and rank for their own sake, I
know."

Not I," returned Mary ; " and I must say I should

like to feel what having quite enough to live
upon is like. It will also be very nice to know that
both Henrietta and I are no longer burdens on papa.
Besides, though I am not what is called very violently
in love with Mr Clavering, still, Lillian, I don't think
that I should like to hear of his being married to
anybody else."

That settles the matter," returned her friend ;
and I don't know that it is wise for the woman
to have too much regard. Better let the great intensity
of feelings come from the man's side, for in
that case one can never be reproached afterwards fora
display of too much affection. You know Willie
Carew  mean little wretch !  is always throwing it upto
his wife that he married her because he saw that
she would fret herself into her grave if he had not
returned her love : fancy a woman having to stand
that : "

It is too dreadful to think of," returned Mary ;
and it should be a warning to us to keep our admirers
in the ice-pail, even when we are sure of them.
Talk of ice, here it comes," and a shower of hail
peppered these young women right and left, and
almost blinded their eyes. They were near the turnstile
leading into the meadows which bordered the
highroad. A broken-down shed, apparently used asa
protection for live stock, stood nearly mid-way : to
this they wended their steps, and they had hardly
reached their shelter when the entrance was darkened
by a figure evidently bent upon the same object

as themselves  viz., protection from the bitter
shaking sleet-storm. Mr Francis Clavering  for it was
he  walked straight towards the ladies, saying, " You
passed through the turnstile so quickly that you did
not see me. I was a little way down on the bank examining
a peculiar looking stone, and saw you coming
along. How ladies can run when they choose," continued
he, " and no wonder ; why, my coat is powdered
with hail as thickly as are your dresses."

The shaking and stamping was just then a peculiarly
opportune diversion, for this meeting was awkward,
and each one of the company felt that it was so,
as they severally wondered what brought the other
to that place.

Naturally, Miss Leppell did not like to appear as if
she were coming to meet Mr Clavering, and it was
impossible to say that this gentleman was expected,
by his own appointment, in the afternoon at Hunter's
Lodge, or to assume that it was towards that residence
that he was now bending his steps. So Miss Leppell
rather iced her salute, and remarked how uncomfortable
the east wind made everybody feel. Miss Fan-share,
flushed with surprise, in which pleasure held
a very considerable place, for a moment lost her usual
calm self-possession, and volunteered the bare information
that she was on her way to lunch with the Brain-trees,
which being apropos of nothing at all, bewildered
Mr Clavering into inquiring if it were not rather
a long way from Pinnacles ; and forthwith supplementing
that remark by saying that he was looking

for a friend who had left him to take a constitutional
walk by the river.

All this was pure fiction on Mr Clavering's part,
who in reality was endeavouring to kill time by feasting
his eyes on the river approach to Blythe. It
failed so signally in being accepted for truth that
Miss Fanshawe, quickly recovering herself, repeated,
with an arch twinkle of her eye, a verse of a hymn
which was the outpouring of a converted negro, a kind
of sable Dr Watts on a Jamaica plantation, in the
year of grace 1837 : 

Auntie Prissie, Auntie Prissie told a wicked story ;
Clap a plaster on her mouth, and take her up to glory."

The chorus of this song was 

Halloo boo, loo, roo roo, Missed Christen,
Remember the fate of Auntie Prissie."

Miss Fanshawe, however, did not supply the refrain,
thinking, perhaps, that under the circumstances she
might lack support.

The effect of this recital produced a desirable diversion
in the situation. Miss Leppell and Mr Clavering
now looked bravely into each other's faces and laughed
heartily, and for a few minutes all three of these young
people talked with very great vigour, each of them,
however, wondering in spirit what was to be done
next  whether to remain together or part company
civilly and with decorum. The position presented a
charming illustration of two being company and three
being none.

The hail, meanwhile, had driven past, and only a few

large drops descended at intervals. Miss Fansliawe
walked out beyond the opening of the shed, and turning
round said, " I must be going now, Mary ; I shall
be late as it is. Will you and Mr Clavering walk as
far as the road with me, and then go your own ways."

Clavering directed a grateful look towards the
young lady  a look which stimulated her into acting
thoroughly in his interests, and which almost repaid
her for the sacrifice of her own predilections towards
him. Perhaps the thought ran through her mind that
if his love could not be hers, he should, at any rate,
be largely her debtor in gratitude for her good offices.
Perhaps, also, a higher and nobler feeling animated
her conduct ; the generous abnegation of self making
her a willing instrument in helping the man she so
highly esteemed to gain the fulfilment of his heart's
desire, and thus perfect his happiness in life.

Who can fathom, who can even discern, the curious
workings of the human heart ? Strange that Lillian
Fanshawe should work so enthusiastically for this
acquaintance of an hour ; that her anxiety that he
should win his love should induce her to discard her
own fancy to the winds, and influence the friend of
her youth to play, as it were, into her hands without
heed of misadventure or probability  intent only on
one point, and that was that Clavering should win the
prize. To say truth, Miss Fanshawe took little heed
of Mary's feelings in this matter. It was sufficient
that, situated as Miss Leppell was, it was a providential
circumstance that a respectable and comfortable

settlement was within reach, and it would be worse
than folly to reject this or cast it aside.

"AVe might all three walk into Yarnee together,"
Mary proposed, shrinking nervously from being left
alone with Mr Clavering.

That will never do," replied Miss Fanshawe with
decision. " Colonel Leppel] said he would come and
meet you on your return : you had better, I think,
keep to his arrangement."

No, no," interrupted Clavering, energetically ; " we
will go so far with you, and return to Blythe by the
river. I will see Miss Leppell safely home."

The best thing you can do," said Miss Fanshawe ;
only, Mary, as your papa desired you to return by
the road, had you not better take that way ? I am
sure Mr Clavering will agree with me."

Mary said it was indifferent to her which way
they took, and Mr Clavering made no reply. He did
not want to encounter Colonel Leppell just then, and
it was only out of respect to that gentleman's daughter
that he did not consign that officer (for the nonce) to
warmer regions. Moreover, he had internally resolved
to walk to Blythe by the river-bank with Miss Appellant
also with the lady's consent to the deviation of
route.

The party set out for the highroad, and reached it
just as the sun shot forward gleams of steely light, so
warm and penetrating withal, that it was evident
the sun meant to predominate finally over wind and
weather. Like a true knight he had taken fair Spring

VOL. I. I

by the hem of her robe, and with his golden lance
upheld her against grim Winter, who, falling back
with his face to the enchantress, covered his retreat
with frosted arrows of sleet and rain, fighting to the
death for the dominions over which he had till lately
ruled with iron sway.

Grand old Winter ; fated now to be awhile a dis-crowned
king in the land wherein Sabrina, released
from her icy fetters, first melts him to tears, and then
turns him to a river-god by the strength and warmth
of her embrace.

Miss Fanshawe, under cover of a shower of hail
which pelted like swan-shot, plunged forward, saying
as she did so, " Good-bye, good-bye ; return to Blythe
as quickly as you can, unless you want the skin to be
torn off your faces ; I have not a moment to spare," 
and thus, fearful of being detained longer, the young
lady walked quickly out of sight.

A waggon was coming along the road, drawn by four
immense cart-horses, the two leaders being decorated
with bells en their collars which sounded cheerily on
the sharp air. Sounds in themselves homely enough,
but the cover of their noise was very grateful to the
two young people left behind, serving as it did to
take off' the edge of an awkward isolation. At length
Clavering spoke, and in a tone betwixt entreaty and
expostulation said : " Let me take you home, Mary ;
shall it be the roadway for your father, or the riverside
for me ? Oh, my sweet queen ! choose the river ;
do choose the river, and call me Frank  just once,

that is all,  I ask no more. Say, then, the river, and
I shall know my fate,"  and he took her hand and
looked beseechingly into her eyes.

His words brought clear meaning enough to her
sense. The river with him,  ah, yes ; after all, that
must be her course : nothing less than the stream of
their lives flowing as one into the stream of time.
Mary Leppell looked up into the face of the man of
science, and read there how love and hope had
banished its workaday aspect, and that tenderness
had routed self-confidence to make way for a respectful,
and even a visibly trembling, expectation.
And so the question that was to be asked in state
at a set time at Hunter's Lodge, was simply asked
and answered on the banks of the Yar, within sight
of its silent flowing waters.

Take me home by the river, Frank, Frank ! " said
the fair young girl, putting her other hand within his,
whilst the soft drop twinkled in her eyes like the dew
in the cup of sweet blue flowers. " I trust  I trust to
you,  we have not seen very much of each other,
certainly  but  but  never mind,  we will go home
to my mother by the river."

A pause ; and then they wandered away from the
highroad and out of the sight of passers-by  and they
were joyous for awhile and silent anon ; and they
looked into the nests of the yellow - hammers, and
pulled the golden tassels of the early budding hazel,
and the events of time and life were blotted from their
memory as they revelled in that hour of pure happiness,

which experience tells us is worth long years of
pain. And they at length arrived at the Lodge gate,
as two travellers who were passing through a country
the name of which is Glamour ; and Glamour, we most
of us know, is a region without time or tide, and neither
can those who live beyond it enter it at will, nor those
return to it who have escaped from out its bounds.

Thus it happened that Colonel Leppell did not meet
his daughter on the highroad towards Blythe, and
that Miss Fanshawe, stimulated by the east wind,
arrived at Yarnee just in time to avoid her father's
rebuke, and that Mr Glascott lunched alone at the
hotel at Yarnee, wondering where on earth Mr Francis
Clavering had betaken himself.

This last happy man on his part lunched very
comfortably in Lady Asher's room in company with
Mrs Leppell and her daughter Mary ; the boy Lep-
tells meantime averring that Moll had brought a
stranger into the house,  the same fellow whom they
had seen months ago loitering about the village with
a green-baize bag on his arm.

Oh, they knew him  and ma and Moll had hidden
him in G. M.'s room to be out of the way of the
governor." " You know," said Dick to Fritz, " that the
governor's orders are that no man that calls here is to
be asked to stay when he is from home. Well, this
one won't go ; but if pa finds him, there will be a jolly
row." So saying, Dick winked hideously at his brother,
and fulfilled his intention of looking out for squalls.

These young gentlemen were on this occasion

doomed to complete disappointment. When the
Colonel returned, Mrs Leppell met him in the hall,
and after a few words had been interchanged he
linked her arm within his own, and marched with
her into Lady Asher's quarters. His sons caught his
words as their parents moved away  "By George!
Adelaide, this is good news. What a weight has been
taken off our minds ! But "  in a whisper  " I don't
like the thing, all the same."

CHAPTEE VII.

SOME MEMBERS OF THE LA TOTTCHE FAMILY.

There was trouble and perplexity in No. 9 Hin-ton
Square, London, West, the house of Lillian Fan-share's
friends. John La Touche, wine - merchant
in the city, and also landed proprietor in the fair
Weald of Sussex, sat in deep conference with Marcia
his sister. The lady was unmarried, and had presided
over her brother's household from the time he had
become a widower, some nine years since ; and she
was at the fat, fair, and forty epoch of her own term
of days.

The personal appearance of Miss La Touche entirely
controverted the opinion which is commonly
held with regard to the outward and visible si<nis
of elderly maidenhood ; in fact Marcia had, on more
than one occasion, been accredited as being the mother
of her brother's eight children, whilst discharging
her legitimate function of aunt and guardian to these
fine wayward specimens of humanity. Both mentally
and physically, Miss La Touche was of a soft creamy

nature, and her beautiful skin and delicate pink
colour were always a pleasant thing in men's sight.
The smoke and dust of the day, together with late
hours and fatigue, which dim the lustre of the young
girl's beauty and drive the more mature amongst
matrons to artificial aids to admiration, never affected
the appearance of Marcia La Touche.

At all times almost redolent of the bath and the
toilette-table, fresh pure water and a hygienic soap
were the only cosmetics that ever had contributed
to the embellishment of the lady's charms. Her
figure, more than inclining towards embonpoint, was
restrained by an adaptation of costume at once sensible
and cunning, and none could define better than
Marcia the distinction which lies betwixt clothing
and dress, as that astute observer, Lady Pre, was
wont to remark, viciously,  the Misses Pre being
remarkable for being always dressed, but seldom
clothed, in the small hours of the morning more
especially.

The common sentiment either expressed or understood
by all who first beheld Marcia, was unmitigated
surprise that she should have managed to escape the
snares of matrimony ; and, following the fashion of
the world, the majority of persons were ready with
good and credible reasons to account for this circumstance.


Those who held no clue, nor were possessed with
any knowledge of the matter, invented false history
and stuck to it. It suffices to say that Marcia had

in her early youth been prevented from marrying the
man whom her soul loved, and in yielding to the
wishes of her parents she had solemnly declared that
none other should call her wife. "I will obey you,"
she said, after her parents had worried and tormented
her to give up her lover, and had found that his
parents were, on their part, making their son's life an
earthly purgatory,  " I will obey you, but remember,
my life will be a single one. Never name matrimony
to me again ; I will never marry  never ! " She kept
her word, in spite of predictions and head-shaking,
and the recorded experiences of those who had witnessed
like protestations, and had lived to see them
vanish, more or less speedily, into the dense atmosphere
of a prosaic comfortable establishment. It is
true that the surroundings in which she had been
reared tended to render Marcia very chary of changing
her home; for among her subsequent admirers
there were none whose possessions rose above the
level of a moderate competence, and she was not the
woman to brave poverty or an insignificant position
merely for the title of a married daughter of her
house, except for a first love. This latter ingredient
being out of the question, the remaining single was
purely the fixed resolution of the lady ; and the trials
and struggles of her eldest sister, who had married
the Reverend Dr M'Taggart, a famous Presbyterian
minister, were rather calculated than otherwise to
strengthen Miss La Touche in her determination to
avoid any chance of a harassed or impecunious life.

Then her sister Arabella, who had dutifully married
a rich man, and was thought by her own family to
have done great things, had for years lived in misery
with a selfish and uncongenial mate, who uniformly
treated her with indifference, and sometimes also with
harshness.

At length Mr Kemble put an end to his existence
by a pistol-shot, in his wife's presence, on hearing
that a race-horse upon which he had staked an enormous
sum had failed signally, coming in a bad fourth
in a contest, whilst the horse of his enemy had come
in first and won by a neck.

The shock of this, combined with previous anxieties,
had effected Mrs Kemble's mind so seriously that
Mr La Touche, by the advice of physicians, placed
his widowed and childless sister in the retirement
of the old rectory house at Pinnacles, in Yarneshire,
some four years ago. A twofold purpose was secured
by this arrangement. The house being large, it served
also as a country retreat for various members and
children of the La Touche family. Thus it was that
an acquaintance had sprung up between the Fan-shades
and La Touches : and as the young people
grew up, visits of some length were exchanged between
London and the country. Aunt Arabella,
meanwhile, kept very much to her own apartments ;
but it was whispered, after a time, that she was becoming
very queer, and that her attendant had now
and then some difficulty in pacifying her. Mrs Fan-share
particularly remarked that after Percival La

Touche's visits (the eldest son of that house), the
patient remained in a quiet half-paralysed state for
days ; also that during the time that Mrs Kemble had
been their tenant, Miss Marcia La Touche had never
but once come to see her sister, and then she seemed
particularly anxious to avoid any mention of her
malady, or to admit that she suffered from anything
beyond a nervous depression. " Surely," Mrs Fan-share
said one day to her spouse,  " surely Miss La
Touche might contrive to come down and stay with
Mrs Kemble. It's disgraceful to think that she has
only been here once in four years."

I don't see how she could very well remain even
for a short time," the rector replied, " with all that
family and a large London house to look after. They
live expensively, and go into a good deal of society.
Then who is to see to the ordering of Percival's
dinners ? He won't be left to servants, and if he
is not made comfortable in his father's house, he
threatens to live elsewhere. I have heard Miss La
Touche say that she is often kept awake at night,
thinking how to vary her nephew's diet, and how
his favourite dishes are to be prepared."

Horrid little gourmand ! " exclaimed Mrs Fan-share.


"Not gourmand, my dear, but gourmet," corrected
the lady's husband ; " gourmet is the proper term
to apply to refined  ahem  refined gluttons."

What's the difference ? " inquired Mrs Fanshawe,
with a snap at Percival in the very tone of her voice.

A gourmand eats for quantity ; a gourmet for
quality," answered the rector. " Both characters
are bad enough ; but I hold the gourmet to be the
more objectionable of the two, because the latter
gives the larger share of trouble and anxiety to other
people. I don't mean to say," continued Mr Fan-share
quickly, "that it is immaterial how a dinner
is cooked ; don't even the cows know good grass from
bad ? but it is the immoderate abuse of the thing in
pampering the appetite that is so reprehensible."

u But Miss La Touche does not cook the dinners."

Certainly not ; but as mistress of the establishment
she has to order them and sit at the head of the
table. It is by no means a sinecure to have to do
with the La Touche men where dining is concerned."

Her own sister ought to be considered before
those nephews at any rate," Mrs Fanshawe replied.
But single women are all alike ; they will only do
what they fancy, even to making martyrs of themselves.
I should have thought that Miss La Touche's
mission in this life would have been to live with
and look after her afflicted sister,  especially now
that her two eldest nieces are grown up, and can at
least help to manage their father's house."

They are only just introduced," replied Mr Fan-share
(who had a liking for Marcia, and was unwilling
to hear her censured, though in his heart he did
think she might have found her way to Pinnacles
long ago) ; " and they require their aunt's presence
and chaperonage more than ever. As to Marcia La

Touche's mission in life, you forget that she was
taking care of her brother's establishment and children
some years before Mrs Kemble became a widow ;
and that she nursed the late Mrs La Touche through
her long illness with the greatest devotion. In
common justice, you must admit that few people
can have done their duty more completely."

I don't dispute that," answered Mrs Fanshawe ;
"but it is a luxurious berth she has got into, plenty
of servants and company, and all the amusements
which fall to the lot of those who belong to a good
London set. This is far more interesting than a
retired life in the country with an ailing and, I
think, more than nervous sister; I had better speak
plainly, more than nervous,  Mrs Kemble is getting
violent now and then, and if we are not careful we
may have a raging lunatic on our hands. I have good
reason for thinking so."

Well, but you need not express your convictions
so strongly," replied the rector, across whose mind
the same impression had more than once floated. " I
think I shall advise Mr La Touche to call in Dr
Williams."

You are right ; and it would be as well to request
the presence of one of the ladies of the family for a
few days. A much better judgment can be arrived at
in this way, for in the flying visits of Mr La Touche
and his son there is little opportunity for them to
judge fairly of Mrs Kemble's state. Besides, it seems
to be Percival's game to ignore that there is anything

very seriously wrong with his aunt Arabella. If you
remark, he always persists in speaking of the nervous
state of his relative, and has even insisted that she
simulates imbecility, and therefore ought to be shaken
up and roused both mentally and physically."

Very improper  very wrong," replied the rector,
who was really a man of deep kind feeling, though
there were occasions on which he shrank to show too
much tenderness before his hard-natured wife. " I
wonder if the eldest sister of the La Touche family,
Mrs M'Taggart, could come for a month : it would bea
great comfort, and be somewhat of a change for
her after her late trouble in losing her husband so
suddenly."

I doubt whether she could leave her family, and
she is very badly off. But I have more hope of seeing
her a visitor at Pinnacles than I have of seeing Miss
La Touche in that character. The latter has been
highly favoured ; her mission has fallen among the
good things of life in every way, and, suffer who will,
Marcia will always live in comfort and luxury."

Mrs Fanshawe was only partially correct when she
made this assertion. True, Marcia's nature was of so
luxurious and soft a mould, that it is questionable
whether she would have acquitted herself with even
ordinary decency had her lines fallen in unpleasant
places, among inferior people, and in close contact
with a scarcity of cash. Feared, too, from her birth
in comfort and independence, it was natural that in
her mature years she should accept luxury as another

step in her wheel of life, and incline rather to the
stalled ox than to the dinner of herbs. But her mission
did exist, although it did not lie in the direction
whereto Mrs Fanshawe had been pleased to allot it.

In a word, the great aim and intent of Marcia's life
was to prevent her brother John La Touche from
marrying a second time, and in this undertaking much
tact and judgment were required in order to carry
matters to a successful issue. Being of a warm and
pleasure-loving nature, with much of the rosy outward
appearance which distinguished his sister, John La
Touche, at sixty-three years of age, was not the man
to wear sad raiment, and decline good dinners, evening
parties, and the delights of his club (gout intervening),
because some of his children were grown up, or to
allow his son Percival to take the lead because a large
landed property had fallen to that eccentric young
gentleman. This latter event had rather the effect of
stimulating the father to assert himself more decidedly
than he had hitherto done ; and as in late years great
commercial success had attended his enterprises, this
gentleman found himself much more at leisure, and
far more youthful in mind and person, than he was at
the period when he became a widower. At that time
he had to work hard to maintain his family, and the
sorrow he had felt at his wife's death, together with a
long illness, had for some years subdued the man's
spirit, and left little time for the alleviations of society
in any shape. Now, with sharp avaricious Percival
as his partner, a first-class managing clerk, and his

good-tempered handsome young son Andrew among
the juniors in the office, Mr La Touche, senior, felt
himself justified in taking more leisure and enjoying
himself after his own fashion. It was this fashion
that alarmed Marcia, for it had of late taken the form
of runs down to Brighton and trips up to Scarborough,
and quiet little dinners in the metropolis, where
widows and unsolved spinsters played the hostess
with great aplomb and vivacity. The worst feature in
the case was, that Mr La Touche always partook of
these distractions alone ; and a legend was circulated
by Percival, that whilst the family in London firmly
believed that their head was drinking the waters and
disporting himself amid the sulphur-baths of Harrogate,
a traveller for the firm had actually beheld him
at the same time dancing Highland reels, and whooping
and snapping his joints with the best of them at
the Caledonian ball in the Assembly Rooms at Scarborough.
And this gay deceiver was writing dreary
letters about his health, and giving accounts of the
missionary meetings he had attended in the north,
at the very time when he was in the very thick of
gay Scarborough society, and enjoying life at the
best hotel."

Another circumstance also tended very materially
to increase Marcia's uneasiness on this head. Sometime
previously Percival had, at the office, come across
a letter addressed to his father, on the envelope of
which the word " private " was marked. This missive
had been inadvertently left on the senior partner's

table; and his son entering the apartment dedicated
to that functionary, for the purpose of asking some
question relating to business, found that he had gone
out without mentioning to any one that it was his
intention to do so, or signifying the time of his return,
which was rather an unusual omission on the part of
Mr La Touche. Casting his eye on the letter, Percival
seized it, and without ceremony and without qualm of
conscience made himself master of its contents.

These were startling even to Percival, who was one of
those men who fancied that nothing could escape him,
and that it was impossible to mislead or hoodwink him
in any matter, especially in those delicate intricacies
of the paths of life which the French designate affaires
du coeur. We have no English equivalent for an expression
which conveys so much meaning, and which
may refer to the honest tenderness of two souls, or to
that yeasty frothy feeling which, born of the fancy of
the hour, treats the heart as if it were a moral calender
pressing up one affection, at the same moment that
another is percolated downwards into nothingness,
diffusing an unsatisfactory flavour of labour lost in its
descent and annihilation.

Percival read the letter through, copied it into his
note-book before returning it to its normal resting-place,
and thanked his stars that he and his family
had made a narrow escape. His father's addresses
might be considered as being safely rejected, inasmuch
as Miss Longview urged the necessity of Marcia, and
one at least of Mr La Touche's daughters, being settled

in life before she could think of entertaining his proposals,
flattering as she felt these to be. The writer
further stated that another insuperable objection existed
to her entering Mr La Touche's house and family
as his wife. This was the presence of his eldest
son as a constant inmate of No. 9 Hinton Square,
and the fact that a large share of the income for
the support of that establishment was contributed by
that gentleman in payment of his expenses. She
meant no offence, but Mr La Touche must be aware
that balls, dinners, and constant company, military
and otherwise, were not congenial to her tastes ; and
the pious leanings of the father being paralysed by
the action of his family, it was not difficult to
perceive that any influence which she might assert
would be entirely set aside by the concentrated opposition
of his sister and his children, &c, &c.

Confounded old cat ! " exclaimed Percival, as he
entered the last clause of this document,  " the governor's
pious leanings, forsooth ! We all know that he
enjoys life as much as any of us, and thinks he squares
accounts by asking a missionary and some of the
serious ' sets to dinner. They never refuse a dinner,
trust them ; but how warily all this has been managed !
I wonder if Marcia has had any suspicion of what my
father has been up to ? We have had our eyes too
much upon Brighton and Scarborough, and his dodge
has been Clapham Else all the time  the locality, by
the way, and stronghold of the rich ' serious.' Miss
Longview must have five hundred a-year of her own.

vol. I. K

I am more ambitious ; a woman with a thousand per
annum is my mark. / have no intention of being
married for my money ! No, no. I'm not such a fool
as that ; but I will go and talk this over with Marcia,
at any rate."

To his aunt, therefore, Percival betook himself ; and
casting to the winds the stupid little mysterious
manner and implied innuendo with which he was
wont to treat his relatives, he placed the copy of the
letter in her hands, and inquired what she thought
of it.

One would have surmised that some word of reproof
would have followed the information which Percival
unblushingly supplied as to how he had come into
possession of this knowledge of the private affairs of
the master of the house ; but if Miss La Touche felt
any disapprobation of the proceeding, she certainly
evinced no sign of it to the offender.

The relation between this pair was more of good
comradeship than of the distinctive position of aunt
and nephew ; and their twelve years' difference in age
had entitled Percival to treat Miss La Touche more as
an elder sister than as a relation belonging to the
previous generation. They generally acted in concert,
although occasionally they abused one another rather
freely. Marcia, however, by strict attention to Percival's
creature comforts, managed in the long-run to
have pretty much her own way ; and as she generally
supported him in most of his whims and works, and
winked at his evil deeds, Percival concluded to think

with great magnanimity that the world contained
worse individuals, taking all in all, than Marcia, as he
always called her.

Only think what we might have been let in for ! "
exclaimed the aunt, as she concluded her perusal of
the letter. " Fancy Miss Longview as your stepmother,
Percival ! and her impudence in refusing
your father on account of the family being objectionable
! Upon my word, she ought to have been glad
of the chance of getting into good society ! " and
Marcia's pink colour deepened to crimson as she
indignantly reviewed the passage which related to
herself and her nephews and nieces collectively.

Then stated Percival, " What a sly old party my
father has proved to be ! I had not the slightest
suspicion of this. I know the governor thinks it
politic to do the good, and come the pious dodge incertain
quarters. It's good for the home trade, and
he never troubles about those who do not give a large
wine order, so I have no objection. Certainly he has
now and then hinted that he sees no reason why
he should not marry again ; but my suspicions have
been excited in another direction. Where and how
this has been carried on is certainly a mystery tome."


Marcia, in reply, said that she could not for the life
of her throw any light on the subject. She admitted
that she had wondered what took her brother to the
May meetings at Exeter Hall last year, but accounted
for this in supposing that he wanted to ingratiate

himself with a certain peer who lectured in that building
during the vernal season, and so thought nothing
of it. She further deponed that she had found some
very highly spiced religious tracts in Mr La Touche's
rooms ; " but you know, Percival," the lady continued,
nothing delights your father so much as to be taken
for a retired bishop, or an ecclesiastical supernumerary
of some kind or other  non Catholic, of course. People
get on his weak point, and induce him to subscribe to
their several charities and societies : the consequence
is, that the house is inundated with tracts, and begging-letters,
and appeals, and voting-papers for every institution
in London, I should think. Now, I have
noticed that some of the heavy reading is addressed
in a feminine hand, very likely that of Miss Long-view."


Such audacity in objecting to me ! " quoth Percival
; " why, the board I pay here is almost as much
as that woman's whole income ! "

Yes ; but don't forget that my brother is most
liberal on his part to every one of us," answered
Marcia, with spirit. " He does not depend upon you ;
and as long as you are single, it is as well that you
should have your rooms and servant in your father's
town house, until you provide an establishment for
yourself. It is quite as much a matter of astonishment
to him as it is to me, that you should let or sell
every brick and stone that belongs to you ; but that is
neither here nor there. About this Miss Longview, I
seem to know her, and yet I don't know her."

"She is a sister of Mrs Wiseman, and she lives
with them. Mr "Wiseman is our manager and agent
at Bordeaux ; he keeps the French trade of the house
together, and does very well, though he is an atrocious
linguist. There are some of his brothers in the
concern as clerks, but they are a canting, stiff-starched
lot, risen from nothing, and always running down
people of better caste."

I remember now," replied Marcia. " A long drab-coloured
woman, with a face like an unbaked platter ;
and she ate her bread and butter at a school-feast in
some unearthly fashion. She may be very excellent,
but why do these good women invariably persist in
having their dresses so badly made at the back ? "

Percival could not say, but he warned Marcia that
if his father could carry on this courtship in so secreta
fashion, there was no knowing what he might do
next. As it was, they were very much obliged to
Miss Longview, but who knows ? some dashing widow
or even a young girl might be brought in over their
heads ; and Percival grinned as he conjured up this
horrid vision, for none knew better than he how
greatly such a proceeding would harass the soul and
vex the spirit of his respected aunt Marcia.

A noise in the hall here arrested this conversation :
some one had entered with a latch-key, and had displaced
some of the appendages of the hat-stand, by
striking against it. Marcia opened the door of the
morning-room, and, looking out, saw to her astonishment
that her brother had returned from the city.

This was a most unusual thing for Mr La Touche todo,
as he invariably lunched at a particular restaurant
at one o'clock sharp. It was now barely twelve o'clock,
and some weighty reason must have caused his return.
Both Marcia and her nephew opined that he had
been taken suddenly ill, and the latter particularly
congratulated himself that his dealings with his
father's letter had been confined to taking a copy
of its contents. It was clear that he could not have
returned home on any business connected with this.
Percival therefore breathed, but for all that he did
not feel quite comfortable, and it is to be hoped that
conscience had something to do with his visible perturbation
of spirit.

Seeing his sister, Mr La Touche merely said, " Come
into the back drawing-room, and don't let anybody be
admitted up there. I have received some annoying
letters, and I want to speak to you about them."

The plural number fell like balm on Marcia's soul,
for she had entertained some misgivings as to the
cause of her brother's return. Making a sign to Percival
to remain in the background, she immediately
followed her brother up-stairs into the sanctum, which
was reserved as the especial private department of
the La Touche household.

It is all out," said the merchant, as the door
closed upon him and his prime minister.

About Arabella," answered Marcia. " I knew it
would come to this : it would have been much better
to put her into a private asylum at first."

Mr La Touche took no notice of this remark, but
pulled a letter out of his pocket, and gave it to
Marcia. It was from the rector of Pinnacles, stating
that, in an access of insanity, Mrs Kemble had
wounded her attendant in the arm with a fork, and
that every article of furniture in her room was more
or less injured. It declared also, that unless some
immediate restraining power were supplied, it would
be impossible for Mr Fanshawe to retain Mrs Kemble
as a tenant, and that the urgency of the case had
obliged Mr Fanshawe to call in Dr Williams, the
head physician of the county lunatic asylum of
Yarneshire. That gentleman had given a very decided
opinion as to the violence of the attack, but
could not state, of course, whether Mrs Kemble's ailment
was in any way due to hereditary disease. The
attendant had said that it was ; but in any case, it
would be advisable that Mr La Touche should come
at once to Pinnacles, and if Miss La Touche would accompany
him, Mrs Fanshawe would be delighted to
accommodate her at Pinnacles Court.

I can't go ! I won't go ! " cried Marcia, raising her
usually low voice in deprecation. " I know what our
mother was. It's too dreadful ; and Arabella would
not have been so bad if it had not been for that horrid
husband of hers : it must be kept quiet for the sake of
your children."

That is not the worst of it," said John La Touche,
with a ghastly pale face. "What do you think of
little Anna ? she has had a terrible attack, but the

people at the school think it is epilepsy. You
know it is more than that."

Little Anna was the youngest daughter of the
house, a child of eleven years. Curious and violent
from her earliest years, and subject, occasionally, to
fits, she had been placed at a quiet home-like school,
about ten miles from London. Judicious care and
training had proved of great benefit to this little girl,
and it had been hoped that as years advanced she
would grow out of all her maladies. Unnaturally
quick in some matters, she was almost idiotic in
others, and the least restraint sufficed to irritate her
to a lamentable degree. That morning, on arriving
at his office, her father had received a letter from the
principal of the school, urging him to go down to
Stowe without delay. This and the communication
from Pinnacles had brought him back to Hinton
Square, in order to consult his sister as to what
was best to be done.

The folding-doors of the great drawing-room opened
at this moment, and gave admission to a tall fine-looking
young man, whose resemblance to his elders
told that he was of the house of La Touche. He had,
however, a great advantage over them in respect to
his aristocratic bearing and highly dignified manners.
This gentleman was Stephen, the third son, who had
been educated at Oxford, and who now had fairly entered
on his career as barrister - at - law. Though
really the flower of his family, strange to say he was
little appreciated by his people ; and had it not been

for his handsome presence, Marcia would have been
as well pleased had he lived elsewhere, for Percival
and Stephen were always at daggers drawn, and the
aunt, right or wrong, invariably inclined to the side of
her elder nephew.

What has brought you in here, sir, at this time of
day ? " said the elder man sharply to his son, as the
latter entered the room in the quiet leisurely manner
which was peculiar to him.

I have returned from Temple Court for some law
papers which are in my charge, and I was looking
them over at this moment in the quiet of the drawing-room
; my aunt's exclamations diverted my attention,
and I have come in to tell you that from what I have
partly heard, I conclude that there has been bad news
from Aunt Arabella."

Mollified by this temperate reply, Mr La Touche
desired his son to sit down, and at once gave him
the undesirable intelligence which had elicited a cry
more of anger than of sorrow from Marcia.

What is to be done ? " said the elder man, after
Stephen had perused the letters ; " do you think they
suspect that we have madness in the family ? "

I won't go to Pinnacles ! " intervened Marcia ; " it
would upset me dreadfully, and I could do no good.
It would be far better to say that little Anna is taken
ill, and that I am called away to her. I don't mind
going to Stowe for a day or so ; but Pinnacles is far
beyond me."

Yes, yes," replied Mr La Touche hastily ; " but

about the family affliction ? What am I to say to
this Dr Williams ? " and he looked appealingly towards
Stephen as he spoke.

Simply tell the truth, and say that hereditary
mania does exist in our family, owing to the frequent
intermarriages between cousins in all its generations,"
the young man replied. " The doctor could
then act with greater certainty, and know better what
course to adopt. Depend upon it, the truth will serve
best. If Aunt Marcia will not go, perhaps you will
let me accompany you," continued the young man.
I think Aunt Arabella would be glad to see me :
she was always fond of me as a boy, and you
know I spent a long time with them at Heidelberg.
She referred to that visit when I went to see her
two years ago."

That's not a bad idea," interrupted Marcia, who
was ready to agree to any proposition that would
obviate the necessity of her own appearance on
the scene. "Aunt Arabella likes you, Stephen, and
people that are, are  queer, can be better managed
by those whom they like. Yes, you had better accompany
your father."

The Fanshawe family, of course, know the full
extent of the malady, don't they ? " said Stephen,
who had been abroad since his return from college,
and was not up in the details of this terrible case.
In fact, circumstances must have forced the knowledge
upon them."

When I placed your aunt there  at Pinnacles, I

mean  I told Mr Fanshawe that she was a very
nervous invalid, and liable at intervals to attacks of
mental aberration ; accrediting all to the sufferings
she had gone through with her husband, and the
shock of his death by his own hand," answered Mr
La Touche.

That was quite enough to account for any woman
going off her head," interrupted Marcia, with a little
triumphant waggle of her own head at Stephen.

Yes," answered the nephew, " especially when
there is the hereditary taint of lunacy to aggravate
and bring out any disposition to excitement."

You see," said Mr La Touche, not heeding his son's
remark, but anxious to vindicate his method of action
" you see Mr Kemble's death was such a fortunate
dispensation, and accounted so satisfactorily for the
state of the widow, that there was no necessity for
making Mr Fanshawe aware of the family tendency
liability  umh  predisposition to excitement. Unfortunately
your aunt has become more peculiar, and
even violent, for you see by the rector's letter that
she has destroyed some of the furniture of her
room."

Poor old lady ! " said Stephen, in a tone of deep
compassion ; u has this last attack come on suddenly ? "

Well, yes, I should say the violent stage is sudden
; but your aunt has become more peculiar for some
months. Did not Lillian Fanshawe tell you something,
when she was last in London ? " inquired Mr La
Touche, turning to his sister.

"Yes ; the Fanshawes were rather alarmed lest Aunt
Arabella should take to walking about the village
dressed in brown paper," Marcia replied. " It was a
fancy for the time, and that wore away ; but she suddenly
clutched the bonnet off a woman's head one
Sunday in church, and of course, as everybody saw
that, it got about that the Fanshawes had a mad
tenant under their charge. Lillian did not like to
tell me this, and would not have done so ; but her
father insisted that he would not be considered as
having Mrs Kemble in his care : we were to understand
that she was his tenant solely, and that it was
the duty of her family to provide her with a responsible
attendant."

Quite right," replied Stephen ; " I honour the man
for his common-sense. Of course she was supplied
with a proper trained nurse after that ? "

I had thought of it," said Mr La Touche,
abashed by the straightforward declaration of his
son,  " I had thought of it, but I waited till I could
see in person what to do. In fact, I don't go there
often ; it annoys me, and Percival manages her better.
Arabella is always quiet when he goes down
to look after her."

Yes ; because he frightens and terrifies her," said
Stephen stoutly. " The attendant told me that after
Percival's visits my aunt suffered acutely from nervous
prostration and sleeplessness ; also that her
aversion to my brother amounts to positive horror.
His very presence seemed to freeze her soul and

body. I was thankful that business kept him so
much at Bordeaux for her sake, poor suffering soul."

You are always hard on Percival," intervened
Marcia. " I am sure you ought not to be jealous
because he is the eldest son."

Nonsense, Aunt Marcia ; you know better than
that, and you know as well as I do that Percival's aim
is to make the Fanshawes and all the world believe
that Aunt Kemble's affliction is purely an accidental
thing. It is sad enough," continued the young man,
that we should suffer from the avarice of the former
generations ; for there is no doubt that the frequent
intermarriages in the family have mostly arisen from
the desire of keeping the money among them. At the
same time, we should accept the fact that as we are
tainted with hereditary insanity, everything ought to
be done, physically and morally, to abate this affliction.
Besides, the fact remains that an affliction of
Providence is no disgrace."

I don't agree with you, sir  in fact, I entertain a
very contrary opinion ! " flared out Mr La Touche.
It is a disgrace to have an insane relative ; and therefore
I think it a duty  a Christian duty I owe my
children  to keep your Aunt Kemble's existence as
much as possible a secret."

But we do accept the fact," said Marcia, in a
mollifying tone,  " indeed we do, Stephen ; we accept
it as a liability to Fits. Some we call apoplectic fits ;
others, when the case is like little Anna's, we call
epileptic fits. You see, they may be mixed up with

lunacy, or they may not ; but it will never do to proclaim
to the world that we are mad. Of course you
see the wisdom of this, but you have got the idea into
your head that Aunt Arabella has been improperly
managed. That's it. Come along both of you ; there
is the luncheon-bell. And, Stephen, go with your
father, and judge for yourself,  I won't go to Pinnacles
! "

CHAPTER VIII.

MR GLASCOTT.
You may tell by the stubble what the grass has been."  Greek Proverb.

The satisfaction which Colonel Leppell evinced at the
manner in which affairs had arranged themselves, was
apparent in his reception of Mr Clavering. This,
though not so cordial as that which he would have
accorded to a suitor of his own choosing, was yet
sufficiently friendly to set the latter quite at his ease,
and make him inwardly congratulate himself on the
success of his wooing.

Lady Asher could not remember the time when a
pleasant party had assembled round the table in her
private apartment, and she much wondered who this
stranger might be who cast an almost magical charm
upon herself and upon all there assembled.

Prothero had barely time to apprise Lady Asher
that Mrs Leppell intended to bring a stranger into her
room to luncheon, and to beg her mistress to ask no
questions, promising that she should hear all about
the visitor afterwards.

She then vested Lady Asher's head in a lace cap,
threw a soft Shetland shawl over her shoulders,
whispering as she did so that the new-comer was a
very learned man  very much thought of in London,
and, she rather fancied, after Miss Mary, but on that
subject it would be as well to hold their peace. Time
would show.

Well might the old lady wonder ! Adelaide looked
brighter than she had seen her for months past;
Ralph spoke quietly, and had asked her to take wine
with him  had actually addressed her as grandmamma,
instead of the habitual G. M. ; and Mary, who was
always lovely in the eyes of this relative, now appeared
to her as an angel crowned with the aureole of happiness.
This young girl, by that intuitive perception
which God often bestows on those whose years preclude
the knowledge which experience brings, felt
that she had done the thing which was right, and that
she in so doing had given satisfaction to both her
parents, and shed around her family the blessings of a
great peace. As Mrs Leppell conversed with Mr
Clavering, she began to like him better than she
imagined that she would have done, and some little
attention he bestowed on the elder lady went far to win
her heart. It was a comfort to her  though a strange
one  to think that this new relative would be quite
equal to maintain his own against the Colonel, should
the occasion present itself, and that there was a chance
of having a man whose opinion and advice would be
reliable, to whom she and her husband could appeal in

the event of any difficulty arising in the management
of their younger sons. Viewing matters in this light,
Mrs Leppell was not so sure that it was a disadvantage
in Mr Francis Clavering being older and wiser than
his years. Henrietta's husband, she reminded herself,
was a hot-headed, impetuous young fellow, much
better away in India ; for Ralph, if they lived to a
hundred, would never be influenced by him. Thus,
quite unconsciously, Mrs Leppell had already established
Mr Clavering more as a mentor and less as a
son-in-law in their future relations, the one with the
others.

Mary was, as has been seen, perfectly unsuspicious
of the cause which compelled her father to consent to
her engagement, and thus ratify it so pleasantly. The
one great object, as far as Colonel Leppell was concerned,
was secured,  the emancipation of Marmaduke
from his disgraceful difficulty. As to the alliance itself,
it might have been better  a deuced deal better. Still,
Providence, and all that, provided for the best. The
fellow, too, is very presentable, and does not come down
upon one with his learning like a load of bricks. Thus
ruminating, the Colonel finally concluded to make the
best of it, and never to forget, that whatever Mr
Glascott might have done to serve him, the bestowal
of his precious Moll was more than an equivalent for
all favours, present and to come.

This conclusion led Colonel Leppell into wondering
how on earth he was to come face to face with Mr
Glascott ; and in this he felt all the reluctance which

VOL. i. l

the injur er usually shows in coming in contact with
the injured person, or even accepting pardon from him.
The position was very galling to Ralph Leppell, who,
though often committing very undignified acts, was
essentially a man of proud spirit, and served as a
strong illustration of a not uncommon paradox. His
case was the more particularly trying, inasmuch as he
was obliged to accept a favour from his quondam
opponent. However, when an unpleasant thing has to
be done, it is well to act promptly, especially as delay
or procrastination would in nowise serve the interests
of Mr Marmaduke Leppell.

Therefore, in an interlude of the general chat, and
quite forgetting that Lady Asher was ignorant of Mr
Glascott's presence in the neighbourhood, the Colonel
proposed to Mr Clavering that he should accompany
him back into Yarnee, and apologise to that gentleman
for Mary's having detained his cousin in his walk,
and for her parents having aided and abetted her by
keeping him to luncheon. The Colonel looked around
for approbation on delivering this speech, for he
fancied he had done a difficult thing rather neatly.

Mr Glascott will only be too glad to accept the
very flattering explanation which I shall give him as
to the cause of my detention," Francis replied. " There
is a saying that happiness comes to us whilst we are
sleeping ; mine came to me whilst I was walking," the
young man continued gallantly. "As to Mr Glas-cost,
I am sure he will be as impatient as myself, or
nearly so, to come and pay his respects to you all as

soon as possible' he went on to say, slightly bowing
to the company.

Glascott ! Glascott ! " exclaimed the old lady, ina
low voice, to her daughter, and peering curiously
into her face ; " not Everard  not your "

Don't take any notice now, mother dear," said Mrs
Leppell, casting a nervous glance towards her husband,
 " don't take any notice now ; I will tell you
presently."

Xow that you can't help yourself," replied the
old lady crossly. a I am never told anything. What
is your friend's name ? "

Fearful of attracting attention, Mrs Leppell merely
replied, " It is quite a different one to that you have
just mentioned. I did not know he was coming till
he entered the house."

This reply mollified the old lady considerably, and
as the visitor at that moment addressed a remark particularly
to her, this piece of good luck had the effect
of distracting her mind for the moment from the subject
of Mr Glascott.

We had better start back at once," said the master
of the house, totally ignoring that it was possible that
Mr Clavering would like to hold some further converse
with his fiancee; and indeed, thinking more of the hail-shower
which was threatening. " I am glad to walk," he
continued, " for I have a lot of things to attend to in
the town. These pensioners give no end of bother,
and now some of the awkward squad belonging to a
regiment quartered at Wurstede are to be sent up tome,

in order that they may drill with my men. It is
absurd ; but, as usual, I am a victim to everything and
everybody. By the way, are you fond of horses ? "

Very," the visitor replied ; " of good ones more
especially."

That's a comfort. I have just had a very handsome
colt presented to me  that is to say, I have got to take
him from a tenant ; there is no other way of getting
some rent he owes me. Would you like to see this
colt ? He is a real beauty, rising three years, and hasa
good many racing points, all first-rate. However,
I will not have him put into training too early ; it is
a bad system this running colts of two and three
years, and will in time, I predict, ruin the breed of
horses. All that is looked for nowadays is speed,
and the training is too severe for two-year old. Weight
and carrying power are all sacrificed in the selection of
blood stock for pure rush, and, of course, there must
be many casualties in training racers of insufficient
stamina. It makes them unsound in wind and limb,
sir."

Mr Clavering replied that he had no doubt the
Colonel was perfectly right ; it stood to common-sense,
he urged.

Where is this colt ? " inquired Mary, whose interest
in the horse department made her a great favourite
with her father. " Dick told me this morning that he
had not arrived, I am so glad to hear that the
creature is to enjoy his life some time longer. Poor
things ! how these racers suffer in training."

He's at Thompson's stable hard by, waiting till I
could send for him. We had better all go down therefor
I desired the lad who brought him to stay at
Thompson's and take a fill of bread and cheese and
beer there. By the way," continued the Colonel,
that colt represents old Ginger's rent ; just wait a
minute till I write a receipt,  or Mary, you may as
well show Mr Clavering the way to Thompson's, and
have the first look at this beast. I'll follow."

Thus arranging the order of progression, the Colonel
strode off, nearly flattening a little Skye terrier, the
colour of the door-mat, and quite as shaggy, as he trod
on it in his exit.

He took up the animal, which shrieked with pain,
patted its head, apologised to it, and then opening the
hall-door, banged the mat into the garden, where it
alighted among some shrubs. " Never get these beastly
shaggy things again for the house doors," the master
vociferated for the benefit of the general public. " The
dogs must be considered ; they are persons and people,
I feel convinced, and a precious sight better than many
a professing Christian." Colonel Leppell was not far
wrong in his estimate. Ah, what a black list there
will be some day against many for wanton cruelty to
the dumb animals of this earth ! It is an open question
whether Christians, professed or otherwise, do
not often sin in this respect quite as deeply as the
pagan and heathen they attempt to convert and civilise.
It would be interesting to know what the cab-horses
of London, and the turned-out household cats

of Edinburgh, would say on this subject, could the
power of speech be allowed them. The Colonel went
to his den, carrying his maimed favourite in his arms,
and Mrs Leppell considerately despatched the lovers
to Thompson's stables. She then took the opportunity
of telling her mother how matters stood in reference to
Mr Glascott, and explained the relationship between
that gentleman and the visitor who had just left the
table. " You see, mother," continued Mrs Leppell,
that I could not very well inform you of these matters
when I only knew a quarter of an hour before
your dinner what Mary had decided to do." She then
made the old lady aware of some of the passages in
Marmaduke's present career, using a wise discretion in
the selection, and managed very fairly to be acquitted
of designedly keeping her parent in the dark concerning
the affairs of the family.

I have thought a good deal about Everard Glas-cost
lately," Lady Asher said after a pause,  " I do not
understand why. But do you know that one day, when
I was taking an airing in my donkey-chair, I thought
I saw him walking near the river-bank."

 Very likely it was he," said Adelaide. " Mr Glas-cost
seems to go about a good deal with his cousin,
and you know he is in Yarnee at this moment." It
did not suit the lady just then to admit that her old
lover had actually been under her roof,  everything
must remain secret, trilling or otherwise, till it was
well with her eldest son.

Meanwhile Mary returned from her visit to the

colt, and the two gentlemen made their way into
Yarnee. Happening to look out of the window of his
room, as they crossed Eed Lion Square, Mr Glascott
was at first surprised, and at the next moment highly
gratified, to behold the arm of his cousin linked within
that of Colonel Ralph Leppell. He even smiled to
himself, for he heard, or fancied he heard, Ralph's
hee-haw voice : it was likely enough, for when that
officer found himself in an embarrassing situation, he
was always particularly loud. The restraining influence
of Mr Clavering's vigorous arm tempered the
Colonel's inclination to swagger, and it also rather
served to reduce his stride. However that may be, the
hotel door was approached with grave decorum, as far
as progression was concerned.

Before they reached the landing-stage, Mr Glascott
was awaiting them at the head of the staircase.
Good morning, Colonel Leppell," he said ; " I am glad
to see you. Ah, Frank ! I can understand now why
I was left to take my luncheon alone." He shook
hands with both comers, and then rang the bell.

Bring some wine-glasses, waiter, and a bottle of
that old madeira with the yellow seal. You know
where I keep it ; I am very anxious that Colonel Lep-
pell should judge of its merits."

Yessir, very good sir,  dry biscuits of course ; " and
so the waiter vanished with the words in his mouth.

Thus began and ended this terrible interview which
the Colonel had so much dreaded  that is to say, the
interview which was to renew their mutual acquaintance,

and despatch the former animosities of these
two gentlemen into the limbo of forgotten memories.
Then the wine was produced, and fair Mary Leppell
was toasted in the fashion of twenty years ago ; and
the naming of this toast by Mr Clavering further informed
Mr Glascott that all was satisfactory in that
quarter. The Colonel pronounced the madeira to be
excellent, and did justice to it, prophesying that in a
few years the very name of this recherche beverage
would be extinct. Then Mr Glascott proposed that
the Colonel should walk round the College precincts
with him. " My time in Yarnee is short," said that gentleman,
" and we had better enter into the ways and
means at once. Frank, if you have any regard for the
underlies, you will let us depart in peace ; but I will be
better than you were,  I won't keep you waiting when
dinner-time comes."

Frank laughed, and the two others went their way.
As soon as they got into the street, Mr Glascott said,
I am very gratified that I am to receive your
daughter as my daughter, and appearances justify
me in supposing that she has accepted my cousin entirely
of her own free will, without pressure : is that
not so ?

Most certainly ; and I think it due to myself
to add, that at this moment my daughter is quite
ignorant of her brother's position. Her mother and I
have purposely kept this from her, in order that her
decision might be perfectly free and uninfluenced.
At the same time, Mr Glascott, both Adelaide and I

feel very grateful to you for your noble, your generous
action in this matter. Let me add, that we both feel
that we do not deserve it."

Say no more about it. Frank is unto me as a
son, and I feared that if he were disappointed of this
attachment,  I believe it is the first and only one he
ever had,  his prospects and success in life would
thereby be seriously imperilled. His disappointment
at hearing the report of your daughter's engagement
to Lord Willows was intense ; in fact, the state of his
mind was the cause that induced me to come forward
as I have done. What I want particularly to say to
you is this : had I found that Miss Leppell entertained
a decided preference for any one else, and
had honestly told Frank of it, much as I should have
regretted the circumstance, I would still have assisted
you to cover your son's disgrace for the sake of his
mother and old times. My cousin is also perfectly
ignorant of this unfortunate occurrence ; he only knows
that, for his sake, I have foregone a lifelong enmity in
order to secure his happiness. But, as I said before,
had your daughter's affections not been hers to bestow,
I would still have helped you. ' An unwilling squaw
makes an unhappy wigwam says the Indian axiom ;
and it is of course a matter of congratulation to us
all that things have turned out as happily as they
have done."

Alas ! for human nature. Ralph was wishing in his
heart of hearts that he had known what would have
happened if Mary had been engaged,  he could have

brought Lord Willows to book in no time, and then
her affections would have been his lordship's, of course.
However, what was done could not be undone, and byway
of distraction, he treated Mr Glascott to an account
of Marrnaduke's elopement, and the failure of
that performance,  " which of course," said the father
ruefully, "was an additional anxiety and trouble to
the delinquent's friends."

Eemember your anxiety about the bank business
is over," said Mr Glascott kindly, "but you should
take immediate steps with regard to this contempt
of Court: mind, the Court of Chancery is an awkward
tribunal to trifle with. I will call at Hunter's
Lodge tomorrow, and we can then talk over the arrangements
for settling our young people finally. It
is past four very much ; still, I think, you had better
consult a lawyer at once. You employ one in Yarnee, I
presume ? "

"Yes, I always stick to Fagan and Winslow,  a
most respectable firm, and their office is close to this.
I shall just have time before dark. The ladies will all
be glad to see you tomorrow. Good-bye till then,"
and the Colonel hied at full speed to consult his legal
adviser.

Master in," inquired Ralph of a young gentleman,
who was sitting on a high stool, conning a severe-looking
document, and wrinkling the skin of his nose very
decidedly over the same. " Look sharp, will you, and
tell Mr Fagan that Colonel Leppell wants to see him
on particular business."

The lad raised his eyes, stared at the officer, and at
length inquired what he meant ?

"What I say," answered the Colonel, in a voice
which made his young friend jump with such alacrity
that the stool rocked again. " I want to know if Mr
Fagan is in ; you are his apprentice, aren't you ? "

I am nothing of the kind," replied the lad loftily,
as he descended from his perch. " I am an articled
clerk, and have paid my premium : the office-boy is out."

Oh, that's it, is it ? Well, never mind, I will call
Mr Fagan myself,"  and going to the foot offa flight of
stairs, the Colonel began to roar, " Fagan, are you at
home ? may I come up to you ? the young prig in your
outer office won't budge ! "

For goodness' sake," cried the prig in question,
allow me to go up-stairs. Mr Fagan is most particular
about noise." And so saying, the lad flew past this
peremptory client with the speed of an arrow, and discovered,
fortunately for himself, that the senior partner
had ascended to an upper room in order to search fora
document that was wanting in his own office.

Colonel Leppell waiting," said Mr Fagan. "Ask
him to go into my room ; I will be down in a moment.
Just poke the fire there, will you ? and see that no one
comes in."

Yes, sir," returned the articled clerk, as meek asa
mouse ; and in a humbled and chastened spirit he
descended to do the honours to the Staff-officer of
Pensioners.

Colonel Leppell eyed the youth with grim amusement

as the latter renovated the fire and cleared away
some papers. " You are young Lilliput," he said at
length.

Ya  as, Colonel, ya  as," was the reply, given in
tremolo key.

Knew every one of you since you were babies.
Hope you attend to your duties, and obey your
mother ; she's put you into a respectable berth. Now
look here, don't you be playing the grand to the
clients who come to this office  it won't do you any
good. I did not mean to hurt your dignity, and if
you like to come out to Hunter's Lodge any day when
my boys are at home, I'll give you a mount, and you
can take pot-luck, if you will. There,  no thanks, be
off,  here's Mr Fagan."

Glad to escape, Mr Lilliput did make off, and the
Colonel, with a heavy heart, confided the difficulty of
Marmaduke's position to that clever lawyer.

They won't imprison him for months, will they ? "
said the Colonel, after he had revealed the case, as far
as he was acquainted with it. " The Lord Chancellor
has been young himself," he urged ; " and of course
the girl was a consenting party."

That makes no difference," said Mr Fagan ; " the
thing to be ascertained is whether the money was the
object of your son's acting in this way. If it turns
out that he was influenced by pecuniary motives, of
course the Court will take a very grave view of his
conduct. Is your son in debt, do you know ? I mean
to any amount ? "

Unfortunately lie is," replied Marmaduke's father,
u and I cannot help him. You know, Fagan, I can
hardly keep ray head above water myself."

Has Mr Leppell been pressed for money ? "

I think so, at least. I am sure he has," answered
Colonel.

That's bad," said Mr Fagan. " Where is he ? "

"Hiding in London,  somewhere in Holborn, disguised
as a nigger ; only fancy ! "

In spite of himself, the lawyer could not repress a
smile. " Well, look here, Colonel," he said at length,
you had better go to London, and get your son to
surrender himself at once to the Court. The sooner
you go the better. I will give you a letter to our
correspondents in the city, who will advise you how
to act. You will want legal assistance on the spot.
As soon as you find Mr Leppell, take him to these
lawyers directly. I will think over the case, and send
the letter and any advice that may occur to me sometime
tomorrow."

I cannot furnish you with more particulars," replied
the Colonel, " my own information is so very meagre ;
at any rate, I will follow your advice, Fagan. You
cannot imagine how much I have to worry me just
now ; I am a regular victim to everybody and -"

Here Mr Fagan laughed outright, and said, " I
think you can manage to keep your own, Colonel,
pretty fairly. However, an affair of this kind always
does bring a good deal of annoyance more or less, and
as far as I can judge, the lady's friends in this case

are more inclined to obstruct your son than to help
him out of his difficulties."

Confound them ! Thank goodness, they are no
acquaintances of mine, nor of Marmaduke's either,
with the exception of the girl. He'll have to make
her cut the whole lot when matters are arranged."

You cannot act too promptly, Colonel," said Mr
Fagan, ignoring his client's asseverations. " If you
cannot start tomorrow, make it the day after."

I can manage to set off by the night mail tomorrow
; it does not leave till eleven, so that will give
me a long day wherein to settle various matters.
Send the letter, please, you intend for your agents to
my office ; any time will do, as I shall look in there
the last thing on my way to the rail. Good-bye  I
must step out, for it is getting dark ; " and Colonel
Leppell strode along at a pace which wellnigh rivalled
the speed of the seven-league boots of the
fairy tales.

On the following day Mr Glascott wended his way
on foot, accompanied by Mr Clavering, to pay his
respects, as he put it, first and foremost to fair
Mary Leppell, the lady of whom he had heard so
much as " heavenly Moll." This was in accordance
with the old-fashioned respect and courtesy which,
even at that time, was being elbowed out by the rush
of life, and the selfish assertiveness of what has now
culminated into " fast manners," as well as fast doings.
Nowadays, persons with the best intentions often
seem to consider that these intentions ought to be

accepted and understood, the rush and hurry of life
doing away with the necessity of any but the scantiest
forms of politeness. There is nothing, perhaps, more
pleasant and gratifying than the deference which a
high-bred elderly man, of what is called the old school,
shows to a young and beautiful girl. It is at once
a tribute to innocence and purity, and sets a good
example to younger men, as regards their manners
towards the softer sex ; and without preaching, it
inculcates the silent lesson of culture and regard for
the feelings of others, which is ever the highest mark
of sincerity and kindliness. It is a delusion with
some, and a delusion that amounts in certain forms
to a superstition, that rudeness and abruptness of
manner is a sign of a good heart, and of sound sterling
worth ; and many of the impertinences that are
dispensed about the world emanate most generally
from those who profess to hold the outward observances
of social life as veils for hypocrisy and false
dealing, whilst they are practising their very vices
under the thick cloak of surliness and insolence.
Good manners, whatever they may conceal, are at
least void of offence ; and it would be as well if a
large majority of those who profess great sanctity
would remember that "Be courteous" is one of the
Scripture's golden rules.

There was, however, some little disappointment
mixed with the great admiration with which Everard
Glascott scanned the fair face of this lovely daughter
of the house of Hieover. It was natural, perhaps,

that he should expect  on a nearer view than that
which he had secured some time previously from the
gallery of a ball-room  to see the girl very much
what the mother had been, or at least some strong
likeness which would at once associate the parent
with the child in her features or expression. In vain
did he seek to discover any lineament which would
in the faintest degree recall the face of Adelaide, nee
Asher, at the age of eighteen. He could only confirm
the fact that Miss Leppell was much more beautiful
than her mother ever had been. The style of both
was essentially different also, and Mary, in every
movement, evinced a grace and elegance which were
totally lacking in Mrs Leppell, that lady being always
more of the handsome and ponderous than of the
light and lithe cast.

After some conversation, Mr Glascott asked to seethe
younger children ; and as many of these as could
be found, intermingled with dogs and kittens, and
even a pigeon held by the scruff of the neck in a baby
hand, were marshalled into the presence of  as it
was represented to them  this very old friend of
mamma, who had come a long way to see them all.
It was only in the chubby unformed faces of the
younger children that the visitor recognised a resemblance
betwixt them and their mother, and this was
confined to the hesitating expression of the mouth,
and the weak moulding of the chin. Looking up
at a picture which hung in the room into which he
had been ushered, Mr Glascott earnestly inspected

a portrait which represented a young man in his
earliest prime, dressed in regimentals. The beautiful
evil face bore a provoking likeness to Mary, and was
none other than that of Marmaduke, painted when he
first joined his regiment.

Long did he gaze upon it, whilst Clavering and
Mary were engaged in their own affairs, and Mrs
Leppell had departed to prepare Lady Asher to receive
his visit. What a wicked face, thought the
honest, pure-minded man, as he looked at it more and
more intently,  yes, wicked, and what is worse, hard,
hard to the heart's core. Whom did it resemble ?
not his father, not Ralph  no ; but it bore a striking
resemblance to Alexander Leppell, Ralph's elder
brother  the man of all others whom Everard Glas-cost
had ever avoided, and finally almost detested.

That is Marmaduke ; he is considered very handsome,"
said the mother, coming up behind her
visitor. " Do you see any likeness to me in the
features ? "

"Not any," Mr Glascott replied; "its resemblance
is strong wherein I would rather not see it, only that
the colouring of the face is beautiful. That portrait is
a flattering, very flattering, refined likeness of your
brother-in-law Alexander."

She gave a low cry, and placed her hand on his
arm. "It is no use attempting to deceive myself,"
she said; "Duke not only resembles his uncle in
person, but he is like  ah, too much like  him indisposition.
Pray God he may not turn out hard

vol. I. m

and cruel  yes, cruel ; he bears it in his face, and the
portrait is a faithful likeness."

A twitching of Mr Glascott's finely cut lip and
nostril alone gave evidence of the emotion which
he felt. Not daring to yield to this, he merely said,
Eemember that you always have a true friend in me,
and it will be my first endeavour to try and influence
your boy for good. He is young yet, and perhaps
his present experiences may tone down his wild folly,
and frighten him at first into more respectable
courses. Come along now and take me to your
mother," and he offered her his arm and led her to
the wing wherein Lady Asher dwelt.

I am lame, quite a cripple, in fact," the old lady
said, as she strove to rise and meet Mr Glascott ;
if I had the power I would go down on my bended
knees and implore your forgiveness for the wrong
I did you. You forgive me ; I am sure you do, or
you would not be here. Ah, me ! your goodness will
heap coals of fire on our heads ; but we have suffered
Adelaide and I  no one but God can tell how
much."

"Believe me, all is forgotten, old friend," said Mr
Glascott, placing her tenderly in her chair. " It's
many years since we parted, but have we not something
to be thankful for ? that through the happiness
of younger people, we are all brought together once
more,  that we live to bless one another, and throw
the mantle of old loving-kindness over the faults of
the past ? "

Yes, yes ; but it is you that have done all this :
you have come to us who so wronged you ; you are
taking my grand-daughter to your heart, and you are
in friendship again with Ralph. I never expected
this  never dreamed that it could be. Oh, Everard
Glascott, what dreary years of self-reproach the
memory of a great wrong brings ! I am thankful,
and Adelaide is thankful, that I shall go to my grave
with your pardon on my heart."

The tears flowed fast down poor Adelaide's face 
her recent trials and bodily weakness had served to
unnerve her. But these were happy tears, drawn from
the source which had been struck by the magic wand
of a fellow-sinner's confession of wrong. Nay, more,
Adelaide Leppell felt assured that her mother would
no longer live an unthankful, fretful woman : she had
been led to admit the sins of her earlier days, and a
good man's forgiveness had brought to them both the
blessing of peace. Come weal, come woe, Everard
Glascott was her mother's friend once more ; and, if
God should will it so, he would lay her head in the
grave as one who had been unto her more than a
son.

They turned with one accord from the past to the
present, and, glad to force conversation into other
channels, they discoursed of the coming nuptials.
Then it was that Mr Glascott spoke of Mr Clavering's
young sister, Willina. " She is a fine girl," he said ;
truthful and frank, and I think she will make a nice
sister-in-law. She is just Miss Leppell's age. I am

going to Belgium to fetch her, and I suppose that
her home will be, eventually, at Brydone, in Jersey ;
but I shall return again to Yarnee with this young
lady in charge."

Bring her here by all means," said Mrs Leppell.

"You are most kind. Now, Mrs Leppell, I am
going to trouble you to give this packet to Mary ;
it contains some fine unset diamonds. I have kept
an equal share for Willina ; but as brides have their
own tastes in these matters, and I am totally ignorant
about jewelry, I have taken the liberty of enclosing
a sum with these stones which will defray the
expense of setting them. Good-bye, Lady Asher ; I am
going to talk with the Colonel now, and you can all
do as you like with Clavering. Good-bye."

Mrs Leppell attended Mr Glascott to the door, and
then spoke to her mother. No reply came, and her
daughter, turning to look, saw that Lady Asher, with
her head bowed on the table, had swooned away.

Chapter IX.

COLONEL LEPPELL IN LONDON.

Only over-excitement and the strain on the nerves
from seeing an old friend rather unexpectedly," was
Colonel Leppell's verdict on being made acquainted
with Lady Asher's condition some little time after Mr
Glascott's departure.

"We thought that at first, Kalph," said poor
Adelaide, "but mother has gone out of one fainting
fit into another, and now I do think we ought
to send for a doctor ; " and placing her hand on her
husband's shoulder, and looking the picture of misery,
she implored him to send into Yarnee for medical
aid.

I think you all frighten yourselves unnecessarily,"
replied the Colonel. "Give her some brandy-and-water
 not weak sweet stuff, but a good stiff tablespoonful
or so  and don't look as if anything were
going to happen,  I mean, as if the old lady were
going to collapse," he continued, rather less asser-actively
; for the loss of the four hundred a-year had

just darted into his mind. "Who is with grand-mamma
? "

Mary and Prothero, of course." As Mrs Leppell
spoke the latter personage stood in the doorway,
and without waiting to be addressed said, "Pray,
go to your mother at once, Mrs Leppell ; Lady Asher
is talking very queerly, and it is not fit that Miss
Mary should be left with her grand mamma alone.
Colonel, will you desire Master Dick to ride into
Yarnee at once for the doctor,  there is no time to
lose."

You don't mean to say that Lady Asher is as bad
as that ? " replied the master of the house, glaring at
Prothero as if she were responsible for her mistress's
attack of illness. "Are you sure that you are not
making too much of it ? Give her some brandy. Old
ladies and babies are much the same, they are up
and down in no time."

Colonel Leppell answered in this wise, not so much
from want of feeling, but from such a dread of serious
illness that he unconsciously determined that no one
of his household should be supposed to be likely to
die, or even to be slightly indisposed, when he was
in the way to quench the like proceedings.

So he urged that surprise and excitement, and
perhaps the east wind, were at the bottom of the
mischief ; and that women, as was usual with them,
always made too great a fuss, and were always ready
to summon a doctor on the slightest provocation,
&c, &c.

"This is more than excitement, sir," answered
Prothero resolutely. " My mistress has been gradually
ailing for some time past, and from what she
has let fall, I feel confident that she does not expect
to live long,  I mean, that her days are numbered, 
she has been so different of late. I am very, very
anxious; oh, my dear mistress,"  and here Prothero
not only burst into tears, but sobbed like one overcome
with grief.

Colonel Leppell looked at the maid in blank amazement:
never had he seen this woman so unnerved.
He had for years regarded her very much as the
owner of the automaton chess-player would regard
the mechanical figure which silently plays its appointed
part and works its way,  the soupgon of a
secret claiming the chief interest in its movements.
Thus Prothero had come to be looked upon by the
Colonel as a mysterious special machine, always
moving on well-oiled wheels, and ignorant of nerves
and feelings, or even of fits and starts, except in the
temperament of those for whose benefit the daily
grinding of the mill went round. Tears and emotion
proceeding from such a source had therefore far
greater weight than the alarm of his wife. And so it
was that Lady Asher's son-in-law was startled, if
not actually frightened, into doing the reasonable
thing.

Lord ! for goodness' sake don't give way like
that, Prothero ; old Prothero, you are a faithful creature,
and I mean what I say. You shall have any horse

you like ; you may have the coach, and I'll drive ; two
of the colts have only been once in harness, but that
don't signify."

"Master Dick shall ride Sally, sir," answered the
maid, almost hysterical between sorrow and the vision
of her master driving her into Yarnee ; " may I go and
send him at once. The idea of me in the coach 
oh !" laugh  sob.

Colonel Leppell rang the bell  nobody ever kept
that officer waiting one instant. " Tell Ben Eifles to
get on Sally and ride into Yarnee for Dr Williams, or
the other man  he knows ; I always forget these
fellows' names," he said to the domestic who had
appeared like lightning to answer the summons.
Bring the doctor whether he is engaged or not ; say
it's a case of  well, something that won't wait  not a
confinement, but old Lady Asher. Look sharp. And
Prothero, if you want any camphor, or cod-liver oil, or
mix vomica, or Cockle's Indices (that homoeopathic
stuff), you had better write it down and send for it
now."

Prothero, who had in some measure recovered her
composure, declined to take advantage of this offer.
"There was a box of homoeopathic globules in the
house," she said, "but it was hidden away, as Dick
had expressed his intention of swallowing the whole
concern at a gulp, to convince the family of the worthlessness
of that kind of medicine.

"Sensible lad," answered the father delighted.
Now Prothero," he continued, actually clapping that

astonished female on the back, "you go into the
dining-room and help yourself to a good glass of port ;
that will, perhaps, be better for you than a drive in
the coach."

The woman almost laughed; for this vehicle was
the astonishment and amusement of the whole countryside.
In it Colonel Leppell was accustomed to
train, as he pleased to term it, young quadrupeds
for work in harness. His family, both boys and
girls, never enjoyed anything better than to go out
on these training expeditions, filling the coach inside
and out, not only with themselves, but also with such
friends as could be induced or seduced into joining
the party, literally going over hedges and ditches.
That no one of them had ever lost their lives or
injured their limbs must be looked upon as the action
of a special Providence, combined with the firm conviction
of the young Leppells that their father could,
if he chose, drive over the tops of the houses and
never bring them to grief.

What the ladies and Prothero suffered when these
expeditions were in full swing was never comprehended,
nor taken into account by any one of the
number composing them ; they had always returned
all right, it was insisted. And what a lark it would be,
Fritz had observed one day, could Ma and G. M. and
old Prothero be placed inside, and be thus driven into
Yarnee by Dick, he (Fritz) intervening !

So Prothero was indeed scared when the Colonel
gravely and sincerely preferred this treat to herself

alone ; and the little surprise, together with her sorrow
and alarm, caused the glass of port wine to be
truly acceptable. Thus refreshed, the faithful servant
was able to present herself in her mistress's apartment
with her wonted imperturbable serenity.

She found Lady Asher literally lying in the arms
of her daughter, in all the prostration of mind and
body in which, with old persons, a long series of ailments
not receiving any very direct medical attention
generally culminates. Though her debility was
great, the patient was by no means insensible to her
condition ; and it was perhaps due to the small portion
of brandy which Mrs Leppell had given her
mother, that the latter retained her senses and did
not relapse into fainting.

Both Mrs Leppell and Prothero were convinced,
from the broken words which occasionally fell from
the patient, that it was the interview with Mr Glas-cost
that had so thoroughly upset her ; and as opportunity,
in later years, had turned Prothero into the
confidante of the female members of Colonel Leppell's
household, it was natural that she should comprehend
the slightest allusion to what was passing in the
mind of her mistress and friend.

It had occurred now and then in the little talks
with Adelaide which took rise out of some trying
behaviour of the Colonel, when the wife took refuge
in her mother's apartments from a domestic storm,
that the old lady had referred sadly to what things
might have been, and had more than once reproached

herself for their joint faithlessness towards Everard
Glascott. This certainly was more by inference than by
actual statement, as it w T as rare indeed to hear Lady
Asher mention that gentleman's name. Perhaps
length of days brings increase of wisdom more surely
when it takes the turn and points downwards, to
indicate the extinction of life ; perhaps at this time
Lady Asher more surely bewailed her own sin, and
recognised its wages in the daily harass and anxiety
which had for long been her daughter's portion in
her married life.

The knowledge, too, had been almost forced upon
her, that a good position without adequate means to
maintain it, is more difficult to bear than downright
actual poverty. The world readily draws the mantle
of obscurity over the latter : and the hard realities
of penury entirely obviate the necessity of keeping up
appearances ; making two ends meet ; fastening on
rich people, time-serving and toadying the same ; or
of any other of those contrivances by which genteel
paupers preserve their " status " in society, exciting
admiration, not unmixed with amazement, in their
compeers.

Mrs Leppell had remarked that # her mother had
become more reflective of late, and also very apprehensive
that she had done wrong in promoting Henrietta's
marriage in the way she had done, with persistent
opposition to Colonel Leppell. That a change
had come over Lady Asher's spirit was evident, for
she had never indulged in any high speculation concerning

the future of her favourite grandchild Mary ;
and when she was informed of the girl's engagement to
Mr Clavering, she was emphatic in her thankfulness
that a comfortable home and a suitable provision had
fallen to the child's lot, rather than rank, even with
a fortune attached to it.

At first, like her son-in-law, Lady Asher thought
she perceived the glow and the seethe of the coals of
fire falling on Mary's young head, through the generosity
of the quondam adversary of her house ; but a
moment's reflection caused the grandmother to cast
this idea aside almost as quickly as it had occurred
to her, strong in the conviction that Providence would
never lead Everard Glascott into so terrible a temptation.
Had she known all, it is probable that the old
lady would have convinced herself that coals of fire
of some kind or another must and ought to descend
upon some of the heads belonging to the house of
Leppell. Fortunately for the peace of her declining
days, Lady Asher was entirely ignorant of the disgrace
which her eldest grandson had brought upon his
name and people ; and with regard to the elopement,
a pitying " poor girl," in reference to the lady, was all
the comment which she thought necessary to bestow
on this matter, warmly supported by Prothero in the
opinion that Duke would make a ten times worse
husband than his father. Lady Asher had in this
instance elected to leave bad alone, and so preserved
a significant silence when that young gentleman's
name was casually mentioned. " Palpi has some

feeling," the old lady would remark to her maid,
and he is fond of his children, and indeed of us all in
his way. Why, if he were to catch anybody insulting
Adelaide, or even me, he would kill them  I do
believe he would ! "

You belong to him," said Prothero grimly.

But," the old lady continued, without heeding this
remark, " Duke is as hard as iron, and as cruel as a
sepoy. Never trust him, in spite of his good looks.
He's of the stuff that the fallen angels are made of,
it's my belief."

It would be as well not to say that to either of
his parents," returned Prothero with wisdom. " Besides,
Duke takes strongly after his uncle Alex., and so it
can't be helped, my lady,  it is in the family."

Mary has more the innocent trusting nature of my
dear husband. Oh, Prothero ! things would have gone
easier for Mrs Leppell if I had been more deferential
to him, and submitted to be led by his advice ; but
my selfishness, and my desire to wed my daughter to
her superior in station, has wrought sad things. Ah,
me!"

It was from such scraps of conversation that in
course of time, and without making any direct inquiry,
Prothero came to absorb much acquaintance with the
family affairs ; and with the reticence and good sense
which formed the strong points of her character,
she was wise enough not to see too much, and thus
managed to steer clear of the domestic solecism of
putting people by the ears, or causing discomfort by

appearing to know those things which she ought not
to know, or hear things which she was not intended
to hear.

Duke, however, in spite of his manifold iniquities,
stood in good stead to his family just now. The
doctor had arrived, and had pronounced Lady Asher
to be ill  seriously ill ; and though he could not positively
assert that any alarming symptoms were present,
still he advised Mrs Leppell to be prepared for the
worst, because there was so little rallying power in the
patient. Lady Asher, he continued, " might linger on
for some weeks, or she might go off at any moment."

Well, I must go off," said the Colonel, to whom
this opinion had been reported whilst smoking in his
den, awaiting the doctor's verdict. " It will be better
for me to start for London at once and see after Duke.
I'm of no use where there is sickness (this was perfectly
true), and I believe the old lady will live on for
some time. Pop her into bed and keep her there.
Why, with care and plenty of nourishment, she may
see us all out."

Prothero, who had been the person to report the
doctor's opinion of the case, here remarked that confinement
to bed would have a very bad effect upon
her ladyship. " Her mistress," Prothero said, " could
not bear to be put aside as an invalid ; it would annoy
her terribly, and lead to bad results."

I don't agree with you," the master answered with
his usual peremptoriness. " The old lady is always
sitting in draughts, and pottering about that garden at

all hours ; and that donkey-chair is like a petrifying
machine in this weather. The doctor says she
requires the greatest care, doesn't he 1 "

Yes, sir ; but when Lady Asher gets a little better,
she will resent being made a regular invalid all of a
sudden,  I feel sure that she will."

Nothing of the sort," returned the Colonel ;
make her bedridden at once, and she will last for
years."

It may be so, sir," returned Prothero, whose knowledge
told her that no good ever had come by contradicting
the Colonel, who perhaps was right in his
opinion. It must be within the experience of many
that to confine an elderly invalid to bed, and especially
to one moderate temperature, at the outset of an illness,
has resulted in preserving life at the cost of a continual
course of ailing health, with just as much alleviation
as prevents the situation from becoming downright
unpleasant, or even wearisome.

The second nature which use is supposed to initiate
and to perfect, claims with the most unfaltering
tenacity every privilege for the invalid ; and thus the
patient, when studiously watched and waited upon,
comes to enjoy the situation, after the first annoyances
attendant upon enforced restraint have worn away,
and in the long-run holds out for a length of years,
often surviving the young and vigorous, whose lives,
may be, they have harassed, and at least made troubled
on their account.

It was perhaps with this idea that Colonel Leppell

insisted that his mother-in-law should be placed in her
bed and be kept therein. In this there was no disposition
to run contrary to Mrs Prothero for contradiction's
sake, as was sometimes the case with that individual.
To keep Lady Asher alive was his sincere hope and
wish, for the very cogent reason that the loss of four
hundred a-year would place him in greater embarrassment
than ever,  all other considerations being set
aside, though, of course, they existed. His former
doubts as to the serious nature of Lady Asher's attack
had vanished completely as soon as the question of
finance had occurred to his mind ; and to be consistent
in what he now elected to believe, the house must
be kept perfectly quiet,  no visitors, little going to
and fro, and, above all things, much control over the
tones of the voice would have to be exercised by the
master of the house.

Hating everything in connection with illness, and
not disposed to sacrifice one iota of his comfort or
convenience, Colonel Leppell found a positive relief in
having Duke's affairs to attend to ; and thus after waiting
a few hours to ascertain that there was no fear of
present danger to his mother-in-law, he announced his
intention of setting off for London on the following day.

This intelligence was hailed with unqualified delight,
as the Colonel was a positive let and hindrance when
illness was in the house ; so it was cautiously impressed
upon him by his wife and Mary that his duty was now
to look after Duke, and that he could depart in peace
with an unruffled conscience.

I really can be of no use here," Ralph said, with a
faint show of reluctance which imposed on nobody.
Every hour, you know, Adelaide, is of the utmost
importance to Duke. Poor fellow ! his state of mind
must be dreadful, for he does not know that the bank
business is arranged by this time. You can telegraph
for me if anything goes wrong, which it won't  I ama
pretty good judge of these matters  and it's only
natural that you should be alarmed. By the way,
Moll had better give me those diamonds. I can
take them up to town and have them set. I have
hardly looked at them. Very handsome of Glascott
to allow her to choose the setting according to her
own taste."

Yes ; and to enclose the amount of the cost in the
case with the stones," returned Mrs Leppell. " There
are bank-notes to the sum of two hundred pounds for
that purpose."

The Colonel gave a low whistle. " The setting won't
cost as much as that," he said.

Perhaps not ; but the child shall retain whatever is
over for her own needs," said the mother resolutely ;
she will want several things for her ' trousseau,' with
which it may be difficult for us to supply her. I have
thought that whatever is over after the setting of the
jewels should be Moll's own money. She has given it
to me to take care of ; but I will let you have the half
of the sum if you like. You can, at all events, pay the
jeweller on account, and whatever is required over can
be easily sent. Mind, Ralph, nothing of this is to be

vol. I. N

spent upon Duke  not a fraction. He is released from
disgrace for my sake ; but the gift to Mary shall not
be used to help him out of his money difficulties."

The Colonel stared at his wife, but made no reply,
whether from amazement at the decision of her manner
or from the consciousness that she was thoroughly in
the right, it is impossible to say. The advantage
gained by what appeared to be passive acquiescence
on her husband's part emboldened Mrs Leppell to proceed,
which she did on this wise.

You are certainly better out of the house now,"
she continued, " and if you can arrange with Captain
Plume to take your work, you had better remain as
long as you can, and thus get everything settled as
regards Duke thoroughly, and be with him as much
as you can ; and, above all things, don't trust to Duke's
representations, but go to the London lawyers first.
Make Duke do what they advise, and if they say he
must surrender himself to the Court of Chancery, make
him do so. You promise me that, Ralph, don't you ? "
and this handsome, innocent woman of forty-eight entreated
her husband with all the caressing newel of
a girl of sixteen.

I can't help myself," was the reply. " I will do
my best, dear ; but mind, I won't have Duke bullied
or sat upon,  in spite of all, he is our son, our eldest
son. I can't help thinking that this Court will take
care that the lad gets little or no benefit from his wife's
fortune,  that's bad enough."

"He must take his chance of that," the mother

replied, "and submit with as good a grace as possible."


One comfort  his wife seems to have married him
from affection, and no doubt she will in the end repay
him for what he will suffer on her account. I daresay
she will make him a handsome allowance, or settle
something upon him at once," said the Colonel, in
magnificent ignorance of the laws of the country in
the matter of the property and marriage of wards of
Court.

We must hope for the best," said Mrs Appellant
do, I beseech you, let the London lawyers act in
the matter. We know nothing, and indeed are perfectly
ignorant of how all this has come about. Be
sure and make Duke respectful and civil if he should
have to appear before a judge,  these men have so
much in their power."

"I don't like the idea of the lad's figuring as a
nigger serenader," said Colonel Leppell, giving himself
a shake. " Must keep that dark with his regiment.
Well, the first thing I'll do will be to go direct to
Holborn and relieve the lad's mind. Glad, though,
that he has not been beholden to Thwacker for board
and lodging : he tells you in his letter that he is earning
his bread, does he not ? "

Yes," said the mother, drearily. She could have
added, " And spending double what he earns : it is the
manner of the race." But she wisely withheld the
expression of this conviction, and proposed, after a
moment's silence, to send Moll to her father to show

him her diamonds. " You know where to take them,"
she said ; " they ought to be mounted in the very best
manner."

You are right. I will take them to Paris."

To Paris ! " she exclaimed in astonishment. " Are
the London jewellers not good enough ? "

Some of them are ; but Dupont is the prince of
jewellers. Besides, he has done a good deal for the
house of Hieover, and I would rather give him the
order."

Oh, if you know a respectable and reliable man,
that makes all the difference," said Mrs Leppell ; " and
I may as well give you two bank-notes of fifty pounds
each, which Moll will bring you, to pay for the setting.
Don't let the cost be much more, Ralph, if you can
possibly help it. You know how short of money we
will be if anything were to happen to grandmamma."

Adelaide, to do her justice, had only just thought of
this contingency. She was now doubly anxious to
expedite her husband's departure. How did she
know that both of them, through the course of events,
might not be tempted to divert this money from its
legitimate use ?

So Colonel Leppell set out for London, and on
arriving at the Paddington Station of the Great
Western Railway, drove straight towards Holborn.
He took the precaution to dismiss his cab at some
little distance from the entrance to Mr Thwacker's
shooting-gallery, and as it was nearly dark, he at once
made his way to that temple of pugilism.

Turning out of Oxford Street, he walked up an
alley which was rather narrow, and paved mercilessly
with those horrible pebble-stones which remind one of
huge potatoes petrified in substance, and extra rounded
in form. "We unconsciously perform an act of penance
whenever we tramp over these ; in fact, it is a
fixed idea in the minds of some sufferers that the
unsoiled peas in the shoon of the early pilgrims and
penitents were but a faint joke in comparison with
this infliction of later civilisation.

Here and there a flat paving-stone laid at the
basement of a door announced that a humble 
gave shelter to some of London's hard
workaday folks.

It was remarkable that the windows of these tenements
were furnished with short muslin-blinds which
were conspicuous for their beautiful cleanliness. The
masonry of these houses was of the solid thick material
of the olden times, when the dwelling-places were
made to stand hard wear and tear, and their walls
were built thick enough to defy alike winter's cold
and summer's sun. Partly denuded of plaster and
spotted with the colour of decay, as some of them
were, they still presented an air of protection, and the
certainty that the occupants had veritably a weather-tight
roof over their heads.

A woman's form sometimes protruded out of one of
these doors as the Colonel tramped up this alley,
giving his opinion of its paving-stones in the most
forcible language, at the same time turning himself

about all ways, after the manner of strangers, in order
to comprehend the geography of the district with
some decree of certitude.

That's a pretty child you have got there," he said
with such suddenness to a woman who was peering at
him through the twilight, that she started and cried
out, " Lor ' ! " " That's a very pretty child ; but
you should not keep it out so late in this air. I am
looking for Thwacker's shooting-gallery ; am I on the
right track ? "

Ye be, my lord," the woman replied, in the conviction
that she was enlightening one of Mr Thwacker's
aristocratic pupils. " It's rather longer to wind about
this passage than the street lower down. Many comes
this way, because it's more private like."

I fancied when I was here last that I came by a
broad crowded street," returned the Colonel, graciously.
I know the place when I get to it. The street lower
down is the general way to Thwacker's, I suppose ? "

Yes, my lord ; but many passes down here on the
quiet. You have only to go straight on to where you
see that light, and turn sharp round ; then you will
find the shooting-gallery right in front of ye," replied
the woman. " Oh, thank you, my lord ; bless you 
bless you a thousand times ! " This for the shilling
that was put into the little child's hand ; but it was
the kindly pat on the curly head of her offspring, and
the gentle pinch on its tender neck which accompanied
the gift, which drew forth the mother's blessing.
Who knows ? In that place and at that time

when all things will be made clear, it may be revealed
how such acts of unostentatious kindness have
been set down by the recording angel in letters of
gold, and have gone far to balance the gross unrefined
metal of the multitude of sins in the sight of
the Father who pities His children.

Thwacker's," as it was briefly called, was being
lighted up and arranged for the reception of those
pupils whose daily avocations only permitted their
attendance at evening and night time. It was yet
too early for those whose engagements or proclivities
led them to frequent this abode of athletic science in
the evening hours, and the pupils of the daytime had
all departed. As the visitor stood before the portals,
he could hear the sounds of sweeping and garnishing ;
and frequent pushing across the floor, accompanied
by violent bumping, seemed to indicate that the implements
of defence were being relegated to their
several places with the most unceremonious despatch
on the part of the propellers thereof ; the fact being
that the attendants all wanted their tea, and were
impatient to be gone.

As if to take precautions that the work must be
finished before any one person could be suffered to
depart, Mr Thwacker walked up and down, now here,
now there, literally pervading his establishment ; and
the Colonel could distinctly recognise his voice somewhere
in the far interior of the building, which ran
back to a great length, and was full of apertures and
windows of every shape and size. At length there

was a lull ; then a good deal of clapping and shutting
together of doors and casements, the whole culminating
in a triumphant bang of an outer gate, which
proclaimed that Mr Thwacker had for the nonce reduced
his establishment into quietness of life, and that
he was now free to enjoy his pipe and a " refresher " in
the shape of an enormous pot of London stout. Looking
through the diamond-panes of the deep-set window
frame of the apartment to the left of the entrance-door,
the Colonel beheld the pugilist resting from his
labours, and also, to his great satisfaction, saw that he
was quite alone, and not at all likely to be engaged
for some little time to come.

As soon as the last drop of the stout had vanished,
and Mr Thwacker had smacked his lips and given
other outward and visible signs of contentment, the
Colonel withdrew from the window and rapped smartly
at the outer door, which of course was partially open,
calling out at the same time, " I am the gentleman
from Yarneshire,  father of one of your pupils, you
understand ; ah, Mr Thwacker, how are you ? "

Mr Thwacker did understand. Indeed his professional
experience was so extensive and so varied,
that there was very little of a certain kind of knowledge
which he could not meet, at least half-way ; and
in this case he was particularly happy, for he was
thoroughly ecu courant with all Mr Marmaduke Leppell's
ways and works, and moreover, so anxious to get rid of
that young gentleman, that there was no risk of his
affecting ignorance, or being reticent concerning the

manner in which the youth was conducting himself,
either in disguise or out of it. So, after answering
the visitor's inquiries respecting his health and prosperity,
the pugilist said, " I'm mortal glad to see you,
sir, for Duke,  you'll excuse me,  Duke is more
anxiety to me than a dozen other men. Just walk
in here, will you ?  this is my ' sanctum,' and we can
talk in private. I was just going to get my clerk to
write and ask you to come up here immediate. Come
in, sir, and I will tell you the reason why."

CHAPTER X.

IN RE MARMADUKE.

The private apartment dignified by the name of Mr
Thwacker's "sanctum" was a retreat devoted to the
purposes of bodily repose, combined with such business
as was confined to the calculation of the current
expenses of his pupils and patrons.

A commodious sofa, mounted on a strong frame and
comfortably padded, filled up nearly one side of the
wall. Here it was that Mr Thwacker afforded repose
to his limbs, after labours that might be more than
herculean in their nature: here also he could give
the powers of his mind to the making up of his
"little bills" against his customers.

A slate of huge dimensions was hung up behind
the door, and furnished evidence of the peculiar
style of arithmetic employed in the " sanctum." A
rough drawing of a billiard cue, and various hieroglyphical
figures, announced that Mr Thwacker had
his own private views, other than those usually accepted
as the signs of computation ; and that he

made use of these with liberality, and regardless of
criticism.

The explanation of this consists in the fact that Mr
Thwacker had never been taught to read and write,
and it was a marvel to many how this man had got on
in the world so well as he did, lacking the three K's
in their entirety, the omission of even one of these
qualifications being generally regarded as a bar to
commercial success in any undertaking.

Seeing Colonel Leppell's eye directed towards this
slate in some bewilderment, Mr Thwacker felt himself
called upon to explain the meaning of the signs there
depicted. The former, however, disclaimed any curiosity
regarding the private accounts of the establishment;
he was only wondering if this were a short
method of going into figures. Arithmetic was not a
strong point with any of the scions of the house of
Hieover.

I thought you might be looking for your son's
little account," said Mr Thwacker. "There's little
again him : he makes his money and he pays it as
far as I am concerned  he do. See that black spot,
like a dab of ink ? that means Duke  beg pardon,
your son."

The Colonel nodded.

Well, that mark, one long and one short, means
that he is one bob short in his billiard account.
Here again, white chalk blot means the Honourable
Mr Lille, five short marks at him ; I see
in a moment he owes five bob. Full moon ; that

means that these gents have paid in full : nice easy

method, ain't it ? "

But you can't always depend upon this, can you ? "
Only as a weekly reckoner, and I never lets these

items run beyond ten days, never  it wouldn't do.

For lame accounts  and the wear and tear here iso



awful  I pays fifteen shillings a - month to a little
clerk near this, to come and settle everything up,
wages and all, once in the week. He wants the
money and a good supper, poor chap, and in addition
I lets him have a turn in the gallery now and
then, so all works fairly well, taking one thing with
another. The great secret, Colonel, is never to let
things get too much ahead. I am not learned myself,
I don't pretend to be, and I don't want to be," continued
Mr Thwacker, candidly ; " but I have the gift
of finding out in a precious short time who suits my
book, and I puts my business into those hands as does
it best, and keeps square themselves, and don't want
to know too much."

 Very sensible," returned Colonel Leppell, approvingly
; " I wish I could always get my business well
carried out by other people. But you know the great
Duke of Wellington's opinion on that subject, eh ? "

Can't say as I do, sir," replied Mr Thwacker.

I need not tell you, though, that the Duke looked
well after his men, and made everybody do their business,
and wouldn't stand any interfering or advising
from other people. One day an inventor called upon
his Grace of Wellington, and begged him to adopt at

Apsley House a peculiar kind of riddle which was to
save a great deal of coal, and separate the dust and
stuff from the same. The Duke listened, and examined
the model of the inventor. After expressing
his approbation of the thing, his Grace said, ' Mr A.,
I will order one of your riddles, as you have not kept
me loner i n talking, and have had the sense to show
the working of your machine by bringing your model ;
but I tell you candidly, unless I riddle the ashes myself,
this thing will be of no use in the household.
Good morning.' Whether this patent riddle was ever
used I can't say, but as it was not the Duke's province
even to give orders about it, I fancy its glory remained
untarnished during the life of its noble owner
at any rate."

Ah ! we can't be here and there and everywhere,
any of us, and perhaps it's just as well  just as well,
for parents and guardians at any rate," said Mr
Thwacker, significantly.

The Colonel caught the meaning, and thought he
would take the bull by the horns at once. " Now,
Thwacker, I want you to tell me about my son : never
mind my feelings,  what has he been up to since he
came here, eh ? "

Well," replied Mr Thwacker slowly, " if I must be
plain-spoken, I may as well say at once, Colonel, that
I shall be jolly well pleased if your son can make
himself scarce here as soon as may be convenient."

Hah ! is he troublesome then ? "

It isn't that so much, but he is so random-like, 

never cares a bit for my orders, or my wish to keep
this house quiet and respectable. The beaks and the
bobbies are always glad enough to run clown a house
like this, let the owner do his very best to keep things
square. Now Duke, he's a handsome lad, as fresh
as paint, and as round as an apple," continued Mr
Thwacker, as his pugilistic proclivities evolved, " and
it's a treat to see him with the gloves,  it is indeed a
noble sight, sir : but he don't stop at that, he don't indeed,
and that's why I mourns over him  that I do."

Has he been sparring in the streets or in public-houses
? " inquired the Colonel, thinking to help Mr
Thwacker out, or at least to meet him half-way in
these revelations.

I won't say that he has or that he hasn't," returned
the pugilist mysteriously. " Unfortunately,
Duke  beg pardon  he do look remarkable well as a
nigger tambourine - player, and so with his lovely
voice he gets no end of a crowd about him when he
goes out singing at nights, and he makes money like
one o'clock ; but the worst of it, he brings all sorts to
the house that ought not to be here, and treats 'em at
the small private bar round the opposite corner there.
I don't keep a public, but my customers patronise
the place over there, and we get mixed sometimes,
with so much going and coming, ye see. To cut it
short, Duke brings people into the gallery that I
won't have there, and that's how it is that me and
him is likely to have a fall out ; so you are just intime,
Colonel, to get him away quietly."

Too bad, too bad," answered the Colonel. " But
the police have not been here after him, have they ? "

Well, no ; I fancy the Court of Chancery don't do
their business in that way (your son told me all his
little trouble, for you see, had it been anything criminal,
I would not have harboured him). But one evening,
Duke,  you'll excuse me, I can't help calling him
Duke "

But he is not known by that name here, is he ? "
inquired the Colonel, in a tone resonant with surprise
and indignation.

Xo, Colonel, by no means ; he goes under the
name of ' Snowball and Duke is supposed to be his
title, because, as I can't help letting the name out, we
agreed to let things slide like that, especially as the
popular idea is that your lad is a young nobleman out
on the spree  for a bet, or something like that  so I
fosters the impression, and it has answered uncommonly
well."

This information so far' tended to calm Colonel
Leppell's excitement, that he proclaimed himself ready
to listen to further communications.

About the policeman that Duke fancied might be
looking out for him," continued Mr Thwacker, taking
up the thread of his narration, " the bobby certainly
roused suspicion by his peering here and there, and
looking at the premises up and down, and as unabashed
as if they were a lady. Well, Duke thinks
to put a stop to this kind of inspection, so what
does he do but dress up as the devil, and hide in

the lower court behind a water-butt. When that
poor deluded officer passed, blest if your son didn't
leap on the chap's back, with a screech and a gleam of
phosphorus which he managed to draw across his eyes
at the same moment. Lor' ! Colonel, that bobby
did run like old boots  that he did ; and though I was
very angry, I could not for the life of me help roaring
with laughing,  it was too much even for a judge to
stand  even for a judge." Here Mr Thwacker shook
with laughter as he told the story.

Then this has got you both into trouble with the
police, I surmise ? " asked the Colonel.

No, sir ; as luck would have it, it was thought to
be a lark from one of the neighbouring puts, which is
always at loggerheads with the bobbies, and the night
was very dark. Now, nobody ever does know anything
about anybody else when the ' police inquiries,'
as they are called, come round ; and the bobbies, as a
rule, keep uncommonly quiet about anything that may
turn a laugh against one of themselves. Duke, too,
had the grace to keep away from the place for some
hours. It was a foolhardy trick, because the black
paint might have given a clue to suspicion. But it
is not that,  it's what he did last night that well-nigh
seared me, and I can stand a pretty lot
too "

What do you mean ? " interrupted the father, with
a frightened look on his face ; " speak at once,  tell
me what you mean ! "

This is what I mean, and no mistake about it. I

can be as lenient to boys and men as anybody, when
they plays their tricks as boys and men; but when
they dresses up as females, and passes in the streets
as females, and goes to the theaters as females, there
I draws the line."

You don't mean to tell me, Thwacker, that my son
has done that ? "

He has ; last night, Colonel, he went to the Hay-market
Theater, dressed as a girl, in company with
one of the worst scamps in London ; he was dressed
as a ' chaperon.' The trick was so well done that
they were not suspected, especially as the scamp had
a friend who escorted them under the guise of an
elderly clergyman. It seems that Duke looked so
beautiful, that he attracted a good deal of attention
"

I wish somebody had punched his head ! " roared
the Colonel. He was terribly annoyed, for Duke's
striking resemblance to his sister Mary at once
rushed to his mind. " The young rascal ! he little
knows what mischief has been done by the like
actions."

True, sir ; well it seems the general admiration
caused the scamp (who, worse luck, belongs to a
respectable family, which I could name) and his
pretended clerical friend to get rather alarmed at so
many people spying and giving their opinion as to
who this beautiful girl might be, and they had the
sense to clear out before the performance was over.
The dressing-up was not done here, or I should have

vol. I. o

stopped it, even if I had been obliged to knock Duke
down and pummel him."

Quite right, Thwacker, quite right," said his visitor
heartily. " Where did they go after they left the
Haymarket ? "

Your son returned here alone, covered with a
military cloak, and with his head tied up in a cape :
fortunately, it was a pouring wet night, and it seems
he stopped the cab short of this, and just put the fare
into the driver's hand, without speaking. So you
see, Colonel, it is high time that he were out of this 
ay, and out of London too. Prison might keep him ;
nothing else will, it is my belief. You'll excuse me."

Is he mixed up in any disreputable affair ? " inquired
Colonel Leppell, with a face like fire.

Not that I know of, neither do I think so. It
was done purely for a lark ; but his companions are
known bad ones, and how they have got hold of him
beats my comprehension. If these rascals were to
offer to enter my gallery, I'd kick 'em out,  don't
think as your son has made this acquaintance here,
Colonel."

You need not assure me of that, Thwacker," said
the poor father, who looked thoroughly crestfallen ;
"this all comes of these concealments. I'll make
Duke deliver himself to the Court of Chancery, and
I'll  I'll tell the Chancellor that he is to imprison
him, just for a warning  to give him a fright, you
know. I'll call on the Chancellor and the judges,
and give them the rights of the thing; and the

barrister who has to defend him, he shall have a
hint."

Better consult your lawyer, sir ; you might get
into trouble if you undertake such work on your own
hook' advised Mr Thwacker, with laudable discretion.
" But you are quite right to put a stop to this
game as soon as you can, sir, as this sort of thing may
lead to dreadful results, and the young fellow runs
a chance of being made a tool on for no end of
crime."

No one knows of this but yourself, I hope ? " said
the Colonel.

"Not a creature, sir. I was waiting up for him,
and as I told you, the bad night favoured everything.
When I saw him after he dropped the cloak, I let out
and no mistake, and I made him tear up every rag
and burn it, under pain of calling in the police there
and then. He declared that he was ignorant that to
frequent a public place dressed as a female was an
offence against the law."

I don't suppose he knew anything about the law
of the case," said Duke's father.

"That's where I see the omissions committed by
this blessed education system. The youngsters is
crammed with a lot of knowledge, good in its way,
but which nine-tenths of them never want, whilst
they are as ignorant as owls about the everyday
matters of ordinary life. You should just hear some
i of them discussing the laws of matrimony, as I did
the other day after the class was over. Lor' ! a

young fellow, who has got a wife already, was asking
some of the others if a marriage called a Morgan
ceremony, or something like that, was valid in England.
One of them declared that it's done by a special
licence, and another of 'em that it is a German
privilege, right in Germany, but immoral everywhere
else ! You would be astonished at the ignorance concerning
the law of different things that I has to correct
every clay of my life almost."

Did Duke take your rebukes in good part,
Thwacker ? I hope he did," said the Colonel.

Your son is as bold as brass, and as unyielding
as iron," replied Mr Thwacker, full of metaphor ; " but
last night I properly alarmed him. Yes," continued
the pugilist, with an air of conviction, " Master Snowball
showed as white as his name last night,  he
did."

Thank you, thank you heartily, Thwacker," said
the Colonel, after a short pause, in which he appeared
to be revolving an idea. " I still think I will get the
Chancellor to give Duke a month in prison : he is
liable to that, you know, for abducting a ward of
Court,  terrible liberty to take. I see that more
clearly than I did. But now, where is the rascal ?
Can I find him ? or, perhaps, you had better send him
here sharp."

You can't see him just at this moment, Colonel,"
said Mr Thwacker, with what he meant to be a smile,
but which really resulted in a defiant grin ; " he will
be having tea with his wife at this time."

His wife ! " cried the Colonel, really startled at the
news ; " what devil's mischief is up now ? "

Well, sir, it's more woman's mischief, as I take it.
You know what they are, women and girls, when they
intend to carry things their own way. Mrs Armature
Leppell got away from her guardian, gave the
lady-keeper some chloroform, travelled night and day,
and was here at seven o'clock this morning as fresh asa
daisy."

How did she know the address ? "

It seems as they were parted he managed to
whisper to her that he would be here. They were
pursued by people sent by the lady's guardians, and
not by the officers of the Court of Chancery. The
young woman declares that some old cousin wanted
her for his son, and being baulked they set on the
Chancery people out of spite."

What is she like ? " said the Colonel, suddenly, 
nice-looking, good feet and ankles ; no accent, I
hope ? "

She's a nice buxom-looking girl  not quite a lady ;
but, Lor' ! a precious sight too good for Duke.
You'll excuse me, after what I know, Colonel."

They shall surrender themselves at once," said that
officer, decidedly ; " so it is just as well Mrs Duke has
arrived. They can go together, and be a mutual support.
Adhere are they ? "

Well, sir, this not being the place for a lady, and
my wife dreading the responsibility, we thought it
best to advise them to go at once to Holloway, and

ft

take a quiet lodging with the mother of one of my
men, who is ill through an accident. Mrs Thwacker
took her first there alone ; but Duke swore he would
follow, so I thought it better he should go out there at
dusk in a cab and chance it. He had only started about
half an hour before you came in."

He did not go in his nigger's disguise, then ? "

No, sir ; I thought it was only due to his young
wife that he should join her in the dress, at least, of a
gentleman," replied the pugilist, without the slightest
intention of beinoj ironical. " He was to return here
tomorrow night at dusk ; but as you have arrived,
perhaps you will make other arrangements."

I will go to Holloway at once, the first thing in the
morning, and insist upon their going with me to the
lawyers. I have the address, and I will write to the
firm to-night, telling them to expect to see us in the
afternoon of tomorrow. To surrender to the Court, and
get a month's imprisonment, will be the best thing
for Duke. The girl can come into the country with
me, to pass away the time with my family ; after that,
I will get Duke sent to some place out of England 
Corfu, or some station not out of reach  and by that
time matrimony will have settled him down."

Mrs Duke told my wife that where her husband
went there she would go ; she only hoped, she said,
that the Chancellor would put them in the same prison.
As to the money, Duke should have every penny of it ;
and she declared she would not sign or promise anything
that he did not approve of. Lor' ! these

women, they are the same all the world over ; they
delight to sacrifice themselves for us without thanks or
reward  that they do," said Mr Thwacker, with energy.

Ay ! " replied the Colonel ; " and the sacrifice inmost
cases is so complete, that they never seem to
understand that it is sacrifice. God bless them ! they
are the best part of the creation after all."

This, perhaps, is the greatest truism that Colonel
Leppell ever uttered, and he was in earnest when he
made the remark.

"Now, before I go, I will note down the address
where these young people are to be found. Hollo way,
you said. "Where ? "

No. 79 Snaggs Eow, Eldon Place. It's a tidy little
house, and they'll rest quiet there ; the name of the
owner is William Tanner."

Thanks," said Colonel Leppell, as he entered these
particulars in his note-book. " Do you know, by the
way, if Mrs Duke had any money with her ? "

Not much, I fancy ; but your son told me that she
had a large amount of jewelry. It seems after she
chloroformed the lady she got the keys and collected
all the things belonging to her that she could lay her
hands on, even some silver-plate which was stowed
away till she should come of age. She bribed a servant
to help her, and thus she managed to bring a
little luggage across. She wanted to change clothes
with the servant and travel disguised like that, but the
maid did not care to do so. Mrs Duke told us she
would have been game if necessary."

Um," said the Colonel ; " a talent for masquerading
is likely to be propagated in the family, eh ? "

Mrs Duke is a woman of resource, I'm thinking,
sir. They can't be without money, for your son has
made a lot of tin by his singing, and he ought to have
several pounds to the good ; he only owes a few shillings
at the outside here. Don't you pay it, Colonel ;
I'll get it out of him. If you settle his bill you will
never see the colour of your money, and the young
scamp ought to learn to pay his own way. Well, perhaps
the Lord Chancellor will settle him if anybody
can ; but ye see, sir, it is high time that he were well
out of this."

Fully agreeing with this opinion, Colonel Lep-
pell took his leave, carrying with him a very sincere
respect for Mr Thwacker. "You have behaved like
a gentleman," he said, as he shook the pugilist by
the hand, "and I thank you very much  will call
again to report proceedings  and understand, please,
that after tomorrow there is no earthly reason for
my son to hide himself, for by this time tomorrow
the lawyers will have arranged for him to surrender
himself to the Court of Chancery. My address is the
Great Western Hotel, Paddington, should you want to
communicate with me. Good night."

Good night, Colonel," said Mr Thwacker, respectfully.
" Mind you see your lawyers afore you trusts
yourself to those young people at Holloway," he added,
as his visitor departed. " There's a load off my mind
anyhow," said the honest man half aloud as he shut

the door; "but the Colonel don't like the look of things,
he don't. He keeps his pecker up to be sure ; but he's
hit, he's very hard hit, I can see. Ton my word, I
believe sons and daughters is more bother than they
are worth," and so Mr Thwacker threw himself on his
couch and meditated, till all his ideas ended, as they
had begun, in smoke.

The following morning found Colonel Leppell, obedient
to the advice to go to his lawyers before trusting
himself at Holloway, and bound in honour by the
promise to his wife, in the office of the firm to
whom he had been recommended by his friendly man
of business at Yarnee. The principal was absent, but
the managing clerk received the new client, and contrived
in a cool matter - of - fact kind of way so to
impress Colonel Leppell with the stupendous powers
of the High Court of Chancery, and its influence
for good and evil,  according to the light in which
its edicts are viewed by those who have dealings
with it,  that the officer declared this tribunal to
be a kind of offshoot of the Inquisition. No actual
barbarity, he allowed, but bother and vexation of spirit
enough to kill a regiment. Ah ! he knew that Chancery
had to answer for the deaths of many persons, old and
young ; and with regard to its wards, it did not look
well, the fact that a minor must be possessed of property
to come under its protection at all. If this were
not a pandering to mammon and the golden calf, he,
Ralph Leppell, would be very much obliged if Mr
Constant would tell him what was.

Mr Constant, however, declined to enter into the
merits of this case, and reminded the client that the
matter of his son and the ward of Court, Miss
Margaret Lorton, commonly called Miss Peggy Lorton,
was now the subject under consideration. Having
secured the Colonel's attention, and elicited some information
regarding Mr Marmaduke's prospects, he
very strongly confirmed the opinion which had
been given by the legal authority of Yarnee in the
matter.

It is an aggravated case of contempt  a very
aggravated case," the lawyer remarked, after possessing
himself of the few particulars which the Colonel
had to give. " Do you mean to say that your son has
nothing at all to settle on the lady ? "

Not a stiver ! " answered the Colonel. " His income
consists of his pay as a cornet of cavalry, and
three hundred a-year which my father allows him to
keep things going ; this might be withdrawn at any
moment. Lord Hieover is peculiar, and if he is displeased,
he always stops the cash."

Um ; do you think that, under the circumstances,
his lordship would make some settlement on his
grandson, for the benefit of his wife ? Is Mr Leppell
Lord Hieover's heir, may I ask ? "

Only in the event of the death of my elder brother,
who is unmarried, and afterwards of my own ; then
my son would succeed to the title and estates. Of
course the Court takes cognisance of rank  and you'll
remark, if you please, that in marrying my son, his

wife has been raised from a very inferior rank of life ;
in that way she receives a full equivalent for her
money," quoth the Colonel, glaring at the lawyer
defiantly.

What is the lady's rank in life ? " inquired Mr
Constant.

She is, I believe, the daughter of a carpet-weaver ;
and I think a tin-bath maker, an uncle, made her his
heiress, but I am not sure. When you see her, she
will be able to enlighten you in these particulars  I
know nothing of the girl."

Some further conversation transpired, in which it
was suggested by the Colonel that perhaps it would be
well to apply to the Honourable Alexander Leppell
for assistance to enable Mr Duke to make some settlement.
The lawyer, however, quenched this proposal
summarily.

Your brother may marry and have a son of his
own," Mr Constant said. " He might, however, be persuaded,
perhaps, to bind himself to make an allowance
out of his personal estate ; or Lord Hieover might
be induced to come forward. Both contingencies are
feasible, as far as I know of this case."

The Colonel replied that these relatives had " come
forward " more than once to pay Mr Leppell's debts,
and to set him up in life again. " He was afraid," he
said, "that nothing more could be done in that
quarter."

Mr Leppell is of age, I assume ? " said Mr Constant.


He will not be of age for four months yet," replied
the parent.

I should tell you, Colonel Leppell," continued
Mr Constant, " that even if your son were able and
willing to make a settlement, it rests with the Court
of Chancery to allow him permission to do so. As
the matter appears to me, your son has obtained
possession of the ward by gross contempt of Court,
and he has married her for the sake of her fortune.
If the Court is satisfied of this, Mr Leppell
will not be allowed to profit by his contempt, or to
enjoy any part of the ward's property."

To this Colonel Leppell replied, " Then the Lord
Chancellor will put him in prison for a month ? "

For six or seven months, or more ; all depends upon
the facts of the case, and especially as to how your son
and his wife comport themselves towards the Court."

: They will not be expected to say they are sorry
when they are not in the least so ? " asked the Colonel,
with the simplicity of a schoolboy.

They will be required to express regret for their
contempt, and receive the rebuke they will certainly
get in a becoming manner ; by that I mean, a proper
and respectful attention must be paid to the judge's
remarks."

What do you recommend to be done ? you, as a
Chancery lawyer, must be up to all the ways and

trie I mean, goings on of these fellows  judges,

I mean."

The only thing to be done is for these young

people to bring themselves within the jurisdiction of
the High Court of Chancery as soon as possible,"
replied Mr Constant.

So I believe ; but they had better come here first
and let you know all particulars. Shall I bring them
tomorrow ? " said Colonel Leppell.

I will confer with our principal ; but if you hear
nothing to the contrary, you had better, all of you, be
here by twelve o'clock tomorrow  everything can
then be arranged. It is an awkward case," continued
Mr Constant, " but we will do our utmost to get the
best arrangement we can."

The Colonel took leave with this piece of comfort,
and then wended his way towards Holloway.

Angry and annoyed as that officer undoubtedly was
at his son's conduct, yet his ire was greatly mollified
as he received from that reprobate and his wife a
welcome which had almost the air of an ovation.
Duke had descried his father from the window, beimj
attracted thereto by the rattle which that officer made
in trying to open the little iron gate of the front
garden. The final clatter which it gave forth, as the
Colonel nearly wrenched it off its hinges, caused
Peggy to exclaim, " Look, Duke ! there's such a handsome
man trying to get in here ; he can't belong to
the house surely ! "

The governor, by Jove ! " was the husband's reply,
and in a moment he had dashed out of the house and
had his arm round his father's neck before the Colonel
could utter a word.

Dear old gov. ! just like you, so kind and so good,"
as he drew his father into the house by the hand.
The manner, also, with which he introduced his wife
was not ungraceful,  tt Here's Peggy ; she will help to
make me a better son than I have hitherto been, and
she is proud to be your daughter-in-law  aren't you,
dear ? "

The young lady stepped forward, and the Colonel
took her hand and kissed her. Thwacker was right,
thought he ; at the same time  " Not quite thoroughbred,
but buxom, and very good kissing," as he afterwards
expressed it on his experience whilst speaking
of Mrs Duke to his younger sons. " Duke must have
married her for the money ; and I am afraid the
Lord Chancellor will think so, when he sees her  safe
to think so. But we must trust in Providence, that's
all we can do, and nothing like it."

So ran the current of the parent's thoughts, but like
a gallant man he determined not to spoil the happiness
of this couple till they had at least had some luncheon
together. Colonel Leppell was in reality very hungry
after the exertions of the morning, so he asked Duke
if he could give him some refreshment at once.
Glass of wine, or anything," he said, " for to tell the
truth, I am rather sharp-set."

Yes, they had taken care, the young fellow said,
to have some champagne wherewith to celebrate the
wedding. " This will not be a wedding-breakfast exactly,
but we will turn it into a wedding luncheon," the
youth continued cheerily, "with the governor doing

delighted parent, and all the rest of it. Peggy, go
and see after the lunch ; I daresay it will be ready ina
few moments."

The young lady obeyed this order  which was given
quite a la mode Leppell  with the alacrity often observed
in young wives who are so much in love that
they glory as much in being commanded by their
spouses as they do in being the objects of their admiration
and caresses. Mrs Peggy, therefore, was quickly
out of ear-shot, beaming with delight at having her
husband's behests to fulfil, and set upon having a good
luncheon to celebrate her reception by the head of the
house. No sooner had the door closed than the Colonel,
seizing Duke's hand, said, " All is right, my dear boy ;
the writs are withdrawn. I cannot tell you more now,
but a friend  an early friend of your mother's  has
arranged matters with the Liverpool bank. You have
had a narrow shave  a very narrow shave  of being 
being "

In the felon's dock, I suppose," said Marmaduke,
filling up the gap  a glitter of defiance lighting his
violet-blue eyes and his handsome evil face. "You
may think that I am superstitious, or that I possess
the gift of clairvoyance : be it as it may, I have always
had the impression that this would never come to anything
serious."

Then you have the devil's own luck, sir," said the
father sharply. " Have a care ! it will desert you some
clay at your greatest need. I know I have not been
all that I should be," said Colonel Leppell, lowering

his voice ; " but I am all the more anxious that my
children should avoid my errors. I have seen the
folly of my ways, Duke, I assure you."

This was true, and one of the greatest follies that
Colonel Leppell committed (and that many fathers
constantly do commit), was the having constantly rehearsed
for the amusement of his sons many of the
escapades of his own early days, which, if not actually
disreputable, hovered very much on the border-land of
reckless folly and dissipation, and which, as in the
case of the Leppells, served to create a very dangerous
precedent. So Duke replied, " I want to see the folly
of my ways  you have had your own fun. But all
elderly people are alike  they forget that they have
been young themselves."

I hardly deserve this from you," the poor Colonel
replied in a dejected tone. " I suppose it is a case of
Eli ; he seldom thrashed his sons, and they despised
him for it."

No, no, governor, not that," said Duke, upon whose
hard nature the word " despise " had some effect. " We
can't help our inclinations : all I want is to enjoy myself
after my own fashion. I hate your steady humdrum
people ; and I have often heard Uncle Alick say
that these strait-laced rigid youths turn out regular
old rascals in their declining years. The hypocrisy
comes out in some way or other. Look at Uncle Alick
now,  he never goes anywhere, has given up racing
and boxing, and lives a highly respectable quiet life 
and remember what a rip he was in his young days."

True, Duke," replied the father ; " but your uncle
Alick would not give a shilling to save you from the
gallows, or prevent you from dying of starvation in
the streets. His only passion now is to hoard money;
and avarice, after all, may be the greatest crime of a
man's advancing years. He would be a better man
now if he ever had possessed heart or feeling."

These two ingredients were so utterly wanting in
Duke's own composition, that the point of the Colonel's
observation was lost upon him, and so he turned to the
discussion of his own affairs in relation to this marriage.


The young gentleman was rather more than astonished
as he listened to what his father had to say
respecting this affair, and seemed disposed at first to
treat the matter rather too lightly, but here the Colonel
was terse and decided.

You and your wife must be prepared to go with
me to the lawyers in Chancery Lane tomorrow. I
have arranged this for you, and then you will be instructed
how and when to surrender yourselves to the
Court of Chancery."

The appearance of the luncheon here put a stop to
conversation, and due justice was certainly done to
that meal, it being quite evident that the appetites of
the parties were not in the least affected by their consciences.
During the repast, the young wife announced
that Duke was going to take her to the Crystal Palace,
and invited the Colonel to accompany them. " You'll
not need to play gooseberry," Peggy said artlessly, 

vol. I. p

all that is over ; but I should like to have you with
us, sir."

"Any other time, any other time,  quite impossible
: " and then the Colonel informed his daughter-in-law
that she was a culprit in the eye of the law, and
asked her how she would like to be stopped by a
policeman, and hauled out of the Crystal Palace like
a pickpocket, with the eyes of perhaps four thousand
people upon her.

Peggy confessed that she did not admire that prospect
at all, and then she was informed what was
probably in store for her at the hands of the Lord
Chancellor.

Then we had better give up the Crystal Palace,"
said Peggy to her husband  " not so much because weare
afraid of the Court and all that, but out of respect
to your father, Duke ; he has been so kind, and has
never said a reproachful word. And as for going to
prison,  well, never mind, we may as well spend our
honeymoon there as anywhere else; all places are
alike to me with Duke."

Oh, these women ! they are the same as they
were in the beginning," the Colonel said aloud to
his son.

"And ever shall be," said Peggy, concluding the
sentence with sincere reverence, " or else there would
be no need of women."

Strange," said Colonel Leppell, " but you have
chosen the neighbourhood of the prison to which persons
are sent for contempt of Court, as regards its

wards. The Queen's Prison, Hollo way, is, the lawyers
tell me, the place of retreat for these offenders."

Duke was sorry to hear that, as it was an unfashionable
part of London, and he would have much preferred
the Queen's Bench. " Fellows," he said, " would call
there who would not take the trouble to come down
to Holloway."

Then they are better away. Such friends as would
make the neighbourhood an objection are not worth
naming, sure," said Peggy.

Then we can't go to the Crystal Palace, I suppose,"
said Duke, in a disappointed tone.

Most certainly not, after what I have told you,"
replied the father ; " and under the circumstances it
would be most unbecoming, most indecent in me to
be seen with you,  officer in her Majesty's service 
public position, haw ! "

Yes, we know," intervened Peggy, innocently ;
and I am sure Duke would not wish you to go,  I
am sure I don't, after that. Would you like a smoke
together ? You could walk up and down that little
lane at the back there, where you will have green
trees, and be private. This room is horridly stuffy,
and I can put things to rights whilst you have a chat,
and discuss your family news."

Congratulating her upon her common - sense, the
Colonel seized the opportunity of talking to his son
concerning certain communications made to him by Mr
Thwacker, which, he said, " the most indulgent parent
could not pass over without strong reprobation ; " and

so strongly did Colonel Leppell reprobate and condemn
the same, that Marmaduke was silent from
sheer surprise that two men such as his father and
Thwacker should view this subject in so serious a
light. Marmaduke, however, secretly registered a
resolve to pay Mr Thwacker out as soon as an opportunity
should present itself for so doing,  all this
honest man's friendly treatment being taken by this
young scamp as purely a matter of course.

There was another subject also upon which the
Colonel would have done well to do more than touch
in his admonitions to his son ; but here the conscience,
which makes cowards of us all, made Colonel Leppell
dumb. Did he not feel that he himself was so far
out of the path of righteous dealing, that he could not
without the most intense hypocrisy reprove his son
for his lack of honesty ? His conscience reminded
him that he was on the verge of committing a deception
which deserved no other name than that of a
gross fraud.

The diamonds presented to his daughter were to be,
by his own act, exchanged for paste stones, and the
proceeds of the barter applied to the liquidation of
some long-standing and pressing debts. But the
Colonel paved his way to evil with good intentions.
He would pay the debts fully with this money,  debts
which had been incurred in a great measure for the
support and pleasures of his family.

Better so, he argued, than be arrested for debt
myself: I shall clear myself before long. Diamonds

are luxuries, not necessaries of life,  only I wish
they had not been given by Everard Glascott, and
that I was not deceiving my lovely Moll. She
wouldn't care ; but, at any rate, I hope to make all
this good.

Contenting himself, therefore, with a general warning,
the Colonel concluded his admonitions to his son
and took his leave, exacting a promise from both
Duke and his wife that they would remain quiet for
the rest of the day, and be sure to meet him on the
morrow at the lawyer's offices in Chancery Lane.

It was with a sensation of intense relief, on the
following day, that Colonel Leppell found his children
already waiting at the office when he arrived there
a few moments in advance of the appointed time.
They appeared to be rather subdued in manner, and
expressed themselves anxious for instructions as to
how they were to surrender themselves to the High
Court of Chancery.

As all three were entirely ignorant as to how this
ignominy, as they deemed it, was to be effected, Mr
Constant had matters very much his own way ; and
appalled by his experiences, which he liberally bestowed
upon his client, the young people began to
entertain a faint idea that they had both done the
thing which they ought not to have done, and were,
consequently, more ready than might be expected,
not only to surrender, but to surrender with becoming
submission.

There is only one thing that I won't stand," said

Peggy, breaking a silence that had suddenly fallen
on the party,  " there is only one thing that I will not
do, and that is to leave my' husband. Where he goes,
I go ; my money is his money ; and if he is to blame
it is all my fault. I abducted him ; he did not abduct
me,  there now."

Mr Constant had perhaps heard speeches of this
kind before, and uttered also with the like sincerity ;
but he was too astute a man to enter into any discussion
on the point, and was therefore wise enough
to leave the task of enlightening the young lady to
the Lord Chancellor. So he replied, " I must take
counsel's opinion before I give you further directions ;
and now, Mr and Mrs Marmaduke Leppell, will you
undertake to return to the address which you have
given, and remain there till I come to you ? You must
see that I could do nothing till this interview was
over. I have got at the particulars of your case, and
can pursue my way."

I will take them back myself," intervened the
Colonel ; " and I can answer for it that they won't
stir out till you come to seek them."

The culprits each undertook to comply with Mr
Constant's injunction ; and after some further arrangements
and signing some papers, the party returned
to Snagg's Eow, Holloway.

CHAPTEE XT.

COLONEL LEPPELL AT PARIS.

A few days later saw Colonel Leppell at Paris,
engaged in a secret and delicate mission of his own.
That it was not an undertaking of which he was
particularly proud, could be descried in his irregular
hesitating stride, and the visible decline of his locomotive
action as he neared a jeweller's shop in
the Palais - Ptoyal, and first inspected its elegantly
mounted window, and then looked up and down
and around before he gained the interior  with a
plunge.

It being early, there was only one customer in the
place ; and two or three workmen could be descried
sitting in little cribs in the back distance, busily
engaged with all the paraphernalia of their trade
around them  to wit, little gas-jets, candles, wax,
magnifying-glasses of various powers, and a multitude
of divers tools of the craft.

An attendant was serving the customer, a young
man, very much interested in a tray of wedding-rings,

and too much absorbed in the selection of a particular
one to take any notice of the new comer.

Colonel Leppell pulled his moustache, shook himself
together, and then mustered up his French.

Est Munshew, Munshew Dupont dans la maison ?
Je suis le Colonel Anglais qu'il savait quelques
anne's avant  oh ! autrefois, qu'il savait autrefois,
eh ? "

The attendant bowed, and tried to look as if he
perfectly comprehended this address ; nevertheless he
confined his response to the interrogative, " Plait-il,
M'sieur ? "

Je plais voir Munshew Dupont, et a parler a lui,
vite, tres vite,  comprenez ? "

"M'sieur Dupont n'est pas chez lui a present,"
the attendant replied, having got a clue in the verbs
voir " and " parler," together with the quick intuitive
perception of a meaning badly expressed,  which seems
a gift of nature to the French people,  to the Colonel's
requirements. " II est sorti, mais j'enverrai le chercher
tout de suite : en attendant, M'sieur, donnez-vous la
peine de vous asseoir,"  indicating, as he spoke, a
highly uncomfortable spindle-shanked chair, towards
which the reckless politeness of the Frenchman
directed the Colonel's attention.

Non, merci, tres beaucoup," replied the Englishman
with vigour ; " je suis trop substantial pour
sitter sur cette chose. Donnez cette carte a Munshew
Dupont ; dites a lui qu'il come vite, ce moment  il
me remember."

The showman summoned one of the workers, and
despatched him to find Mr Dupont ; and the Colonel,
with a nod of relief, occupied himself in inspecting the
various articles with which he was surrounded. He
rather fancied that his French must be, at least, intelligible,
as it had the effect of sending off a messenger
at any rate. So far so good.

Some minutes elapsed ; the customer selected his
ring and departed ; and the attendant, now quite at
leisure, dusted a short stool and propelled it with a
flourish in the direction of Colonel Leppell, evidently
expectant that he would give satisfaction by this
manoeuvre.

Oh, non, non pouvez," replied the Briton, squaring
at the stool as if to illustrate his meaning. "II est
better, oui, better que l'autre, mais il est trop fragile,
je le smasherai dans un moment. You eyes bon
fellow, tres bon fellow, mais j'espere que votre maitre
comers ici vite,  affaire privet, vous savez ; et je ne
puis pas parler a vous, parce-qu'il est une affaire de
de  business, vous savez."

'' Voila M'sieur Dupont qui arrive," exclaimed the
man, whose gravity had really been tried to the utmost
extent, and who was equally relieved with the Colonel
at seeing Mr Dupont enter the shop. " Le Monsieur
vous attend," he said to his chief, and then speedily
retired into the background.

Thank goodness, I have got hold of some one who
can speak a respectable language," said the Colonel
with an egotism truly British. " The tower of Babel

was a mistake, sir, a great mistake ; it confused the
languages without confounding them. How are you
and all your family ? Claudius grown up a pretty girl
by this time, eh ? "

Mr Dupont, in excellent English, replied that " all
his family were well, and that his daughter was  trs
Men  very much like other girls of her age." Then he
inquired, with an intuitive perception that traffic in
some shape or other had brought Colonel Leppell
there, in what manner he could serve his visitor ?

Can I speak to you in private ? " said the officer.

Certainly ; " and passing the workmen, Mr Dupont
opened the door of a small apartment, simply
and elegantly furnished, a bright chintz forming the
draperies, and good India-muslin curtains shading a
small balcony upon which the open window gave.
The air was redolent with the perfume of violets
which grew in pots ranged within the balcony, and
a bouquet of fresh spring-flowers was arranged in a
low, long, old - fashioned china dish upon a small
Chippendale table, fenced at the rim with a beautiful
railing of fretwork. Some statuettes, a handsome
clock, and a few well-selected pictures, composed the
decoration of the room, which, in its artistic arrangement,
presented an air of refined comfort, totally
apart from the oppression of spirit which is generally
the result of coming in contact with rich valuables,
heaped indiscriminately together independent
of tone or keeping.

It is almost needless to add that the deformity of

a staring carpet, pranked out with a conventional
pattern, was utterly wanting here ; the true taste of
the Persian loom being imitated in a sober floor-covering
of many colours, so ingeniously woven together
that none predominated, and on this subdued
rich groundwork the several articles of furniture stood
out in good relief. The handsome, well-appointed
writing-table, and two library chairs of the same
wood, quite distinct from the chintz-covered lounges,
seemed to convey the idea that affairs could be here
transacted on strict business lines only.

Colonel Leppell looked round : he remembered this
retreat, although it had been garnished and much renovated
since he last stood on its threshold seven years
ago. It was here that he had sold poor Adelaide's set
of diamonds  her father's and her mother's present to
their daughter on her wedding-morn !

The jeweller shut the door, handed one of the
business chairs to his visitor, seated himself on the
other, and folded a newspaper together whilst the
Colonel produced a packet.

These diamonds," he said, " belong to a lady of
my family who cannot afford to keep them,  as real
stones, I mean. I want you to purchase these real
stones, and substitute paste diamonds in their place,
setting them as richly as you can. I know you will
deal honestly with me about the price, for your
mother was an Englishwoman, the Lord be praised ! "

Mr Dupont drew himself up at this equivocal
compliment. " My father was an honest man, sir,

and I trust I am worthy to be his son  I strive to
be so."

Oh, I mean no offence," said the Colonel hastily ;
one ought not to judge individuals by a nation. Beg
pardon."

Although this was verily from Scylla to Charybdis,
Mr Dupont ignored the remark, wisely giving his
visitor credit for being bite, which was exactly
what Colonel Leppell was : no man on earth could
have been born with less of that quality called tact.
Allow me," he said, " to examine these stones ; they
appear to be of the finest water, and are mostly of the
same size, which, of course, would increase their
value, for setting especially."

"Are there enough there to make a whole set, or
what do you call it in French ? " said Colonel
Leppell, after a pause.

Parure," replied Mr Dupont ; " and a diamond
necklace we express as a divide of diamonds. It is
a most happy expression, because nothing in art is
more suggestive of clear water in sunlight, sparkling
and dazzling at every turn, than a collar of good
stones like these," and the jeweller handled the gems
before him with infinite appreciation.

Ah, especially when it swims round a snowy
swan-like neck," replied the Colonel, evidently believing,
like a gallant man, that the swan-like neck
of his imagination was the special point of admiration.
" The worst of it is," he continued, with a touch
of regret which was deeply sincere, " one sees the

best gems upon withered, leathery old hags, who will
bare their throats, and not stop at that either, and
the sight is enough to depreciate the jewels, and put
them out of fashion." And here the speaker treated
Mr Dupont to some of his experiences on this head,
which led to the conclusion on the part of both
these gentlemen that the Parliament of every civilised
nation should pass a sharp short bill, restraining old
women from wearing any jewellery other than their
wedding-ring.

Yes," supplemented the Colonel, " and if they have
any good ornaments they should be made to give them
up to the girls of their family, and let these show off
the gems before Time steals upon them in their turn."

That would hardly suit my craft, though," said
Mr Dupont. " Now I have examined these diamonds
thoroughly : one or two contain a very slight flaw
here and there, but on the whole they are of the
finest water, and are perfectly cut also. If they
were set in black enamel, I should not ask less in
selling the parure than forty-two thousand francs."

What is that sum in English money ? " said the
Colonel. " I never can manage foreign money, somehow,
and I suppose decimal coinage won't come into
fashion in Britain till I am dead and buried, so I
don't bother to understand it,  but this sounds tremendous
in francs, I can quite understand so far."

The amount in English money," replied the jeweller,
" would be equal to one thousand seven hundred
and fifty English pounds."

"That sounds enormous," exclaimed the Colonel,
with a gesture of delight ; " of course you will give mea
proportionate sum for the stones."

I will give you a fair sum, and I propose to arrange
the matter in this way. Nine hundred pounds, English
money down, and an equivalent set of paste diamonds
of the very best make, mounted either in fine black or
deep violet-blue enamel, arranged in a good pattern.
Some judges incline to the idea that the deepest blue
is a better ground for paste diamonds, for as the latter
soon lose their first brilliancy, at least in some degree,
the blue rather attracts the eye from the stones, and at
any rate does not present the same severity of contrast
as does the black enamel. Your object, as I understand
it, is to secure a set of diamonds in paste which
will be so like the true stones that it will be impossible
to detect the difference between the real and the
false gems."

Certainly ; but I think I ought to have a thousand
pounds in ready money for these stones."

Nine hundred pounds, English gold, is all that I
can allow you in specie. Eemember these diamonds
have to be mounted ; and I think it probable that, if I
purchase them, I may have to send them to Holland
to be further polished  they are rather unequal in
brilliancy, I see, on further inspection. The pattern
of the arrangement of the whole has to be supplied, as
also the pattern of the paste set. Then the imitated
stones must be manufactured in the best possible style,
and of the very best materials."

True ; be sure and let the pattern of the paste set
be exactly similar to that chosen for the diamonds."

That can be done ; and if you will leave it to me, I
can see, when the paste set are returned from the
manufactory, which will be the better enamel on
which to mount them."

Returned ? Don't you make them here ? "

"Oh no," replied Mr Dupont, "We have about
twenty workmen at a manufactory at Septmonel in
Switzerland ; this place is about fifteen miles from
Geneva, in the Jura. All kinds of false gems are
manufactured there, though the house of Dupont only
deals in paste imitations of diamonds and emeralds :
but artificial gems of every known kind can be
supplied from thence. stow will you kindly select a
pattern from among these, and I will go to Septmonel
myself and have the paste set put in hand at once. I
have several orders to attend to there, so it is fortunate
that I had not started."

I will leave that to you, you know so much better,"
replied the Colonel wisely. " How on earth are these
imitation stones made ? "

"Every one manufactures with a secret ingredient
of his own," returned Mr Dupont, "therefore the
proportions must be varied by every maker. The
finest rock crystal, and a glass consisting of oxide
of tin, forms the principal material for making paste
diamonds. The impossibility of their long preserving
their pristine brilliancy is the chief cause whereby the
imposition is generally detected."

The Colonel winced at the word " imposition," but
held his peace. " You accept my terms ? " said Mr
Dupont, looking at him steadily.

"Well, yes  suppose I must; want the money
badly," replied Colonel Leppell, shrugging his shoulders.
" Well, I don't grudge you clearing four hundred
or so by the transaction, especially if the paste set be
thoroughly good imitations."

Eemember, I may not sell the parure, when complete,
for some little time, and so the interest on my
money is lost for a while. Again, I may sell, and not
be paid in full the expenses I have laid before you ;
and taking all in all, you have no reason to complain.
I have a right to insure a good profit, as I may have
to wait till I can secure a suitable customer." Mr
Dupont then, taking a miniature set of scales and
weights from a drawer of the writing-table, proceeded
to make a list of the stones, weighing and valuing each
one in succession. He then sealed the whole in a
parcel and wrote out an order upon one of the principal
bankers in Paris for nine hundred pounds, English
sterling, in favour of Colonel Leppell.

He also made out a separate memorandum, in
which he, Mr Dupont, undertook to furnish Colonel
Leppell with a set of the best paste diamonds, arranged
according to the pattern selected, and mounted
in fine enamel, to be delivered at the expiration of
thirty days from that date.

Here was subjoined an acknowledgment of having
received payment of the same in full, to which the

jeweller's signature and his business address were
duly appended.

This affair being satisfactorily concluded, Colonel
Leppell informed the jeweller that he knew of another
set of diamonds which would require mounting, without
the substitution of an equivalent in paste, and
he promised to induce the owner to have them
mounted by Mr Dupont ; " but I," continued the
Colonel, u can do nothing till I see the  the  work
from Septmonel. I am anxious that the owner of
the jewels I allude to should be pleased with the
pattern and arrangement of those you are to supply :
this being the case, I think I can secure you the
order."

Mr Dupont bowed, promised to do his best, and
then inquired if Colonel Leppell still lived in the
Yarneshire village. Satisfied with this, he then expressed
his intention of sending the parure by one
of his own assistants at the expiration of thirty days,
who would deliver the case personally and take the
Colonel's receipt for the delivery of the same at
Hunter's Lodge.

The English officer took leave, and, with Mr
Dupont's order for nine hundred pounds in his pocket,
immediately wended his way to the banking establishment
of Messieurs Damien Frees, and there converted
that document into cash. There were no
reductions, as the jeweller had handsomely made the
order payable at sight. Then Colonel Leppell retraced
his steps to his hotel, resolving to return home

VOL. I. Q

by the mail-train which would leave Paris for Calais
at eleven o'clock on the same night. " I will not
spend a farthing more on myself than I can help," the
Colonel mentally declared ; " all this shall go to pay my
debts. I will clear these and then start free  that is,
if Duke does not hamper me too deeply. What can
my father and Alick mean by throwing over a lad
like Duke ? " that young gentleman's father wondered
with parental blindness. " They have paid his debts
once, certainly, but that was rather to help me. The
Viscount could hardly pass me by. This elopement
scrape will cost something ; perhaps Alick may help
us, out of pure contradiction,  he is a Radical from
principle, he says. Well, if he is consistent he will
not stand the Court of Chancery, and so he will help
Duke. It is a tyrannical institution, and if I had a
chance of putting it down I would turn Radical on
the spot, that I would."

It was unusual for him, and also quite contrary to
Colonel Leppell's customary habit, to refrain from
purchasing an object of fancy or otherwise to take
home to some one or two members of the family. He
generally singled out a little child as a presentee when
it was not convenient of not possible to give all round ;
for the younger ones of his flock had ever been more
or less the objects of the father's overflowing demonstrations
of affection. At this moment a sudden
reflection, which was truly a prick of conscience,
caused him to turn resolutely from a toy-shop which
he had been inclined to enter in the interests of the

nursery party at home. The window, as is usual with
this kind of shop in Paris, was crowded with all kinds
of tempting and brilliant articles, all placed well to
the front, leaving behind them, in confined and half
darkened space, the ordinary and more inferior articles
of sale, in company with broken boxes, torn
paper, and perhaps a huge rocking-horse, mounted up
high on a shelf, and surrounded with much discoloration
and roughness  the whole effect irresistibly
reminding the beholder of a huge firework which had
exploded laterally, and, adhering in varied degrees of
sparkle to the window, left nothing behind but the
stick which had propelled it forwards.

The Colonel looked into this magasin as it called itself,
and was nearly precipitated backwards down the
narrow steep step at its entrance, in the rebound he
made in turning sharply away from the temptations
which it contained. The forcible expression which
was jerked out of the mouth of that officer as he
recovered his footing had the effect of bringing forward
an elastic little Frenchman, who, like a jack-in-the-box,
seemed to spring to the opening.

Could he have the honour of serving Monsieur ? "
he inquired, in his native tongue.

Nong, nong, mercy," replied the Briton,  " tres
beaucoup oblige ; je only look un moment clans le
window, je navis pas observe le step, et jamais
stumbled."

Mais, donnez-vous la peine d'entrer, Monsieur," said
the Frenchman politely ; " vous avez, sans doute, des

petits enfants ; peut-etre vous trouverez ici quelquechose
que puisse vous convenir : voici un excellent
billard en miniature ; c'est tout-a-fait ravissant, n'est-ce
pas ? " and the Frenchman indicated a very cleverly
made toy which seemed to be just opened, its case
standing by.

Oh, nong, merci  tres mauvais exemple pour les
gardens ; je ne veux pas qu'ils gamble ; assez dans
ma famille : je ne puis pas buy les toys ; mais, montrez
a moi ce  ce  cet walking-stick la; j'aime le regard
clu chose s'il n'est pas trop sargent, je buyer cela."

Some rattan and other walking-sticks were produced,
and after a little haggling the Colonel purchased
one of the number, and felt he had done a
stroke of business. " Oui, tres bon, et je crois que
vous naves pas charge trop beaucoup for le sort de
chose," said the Colonel, as he surveyed his purchase
at arm's-length. " II faut que vous take le money,
car je ne sais pas combien il est dans le money de ce
confondu pays." So saying he held out some francs
in the palm of his hand, and the Frenchman, selecting
the exact price therefrom, grinned at the extraordinary
Briton, and assured him that it was with the greatest
pleasure that he transacted business with a gentleman
who spoke so well the French language.

I don't do that, I know," said Palpi to himself ashe
left the shop ; " but these fellows understand me
somehow. I fancy the great secret lies in a word or
two, and a flourish. Bah ! an Englishman would never
take up the thing as these French fellows do; they

don't meet one half-way  I mean our people  and
they always laugh in a foreigner's face when he makes
a mistake in his English,  bad habit, very bad habit.
After all, these Munshews do teach us manners, and
they don't forget, either, so often as we do, that
courtesy is a Christian gift. Whether that be so or
not, it is a comfort to be civilly treated."

Thus thinking, the Colonel walked down the street,
looking now and then into various shops, and more
than once half inclined to step in and purchase
something for his little ones. But here conscience
did take possession of him and held him fast. " No,
no," he resolved,  " my innocent little children, I cannot
buy them toys out of this money ; I will wait till
I draw my next pay,  and, Lord bless them ! they don't
care whether the things come from Paris or from 
; but no toys out of this. Bah ! how I hate
myself ; but what can 1 do ? Why are we, most of us,
born with inclinations that we cannot satisfy ? and
why are are we placed in situations which are nothing
but a harass or an anxiety, to say nothing of a snare
for wrong-doing all our lives long ? "

Alack ! and alas ! Life teems with misfits. If it
were not so, the world would not exist. The essence
of living here below is that we see through the glass
darkly, and were the true image of all things to be
reflected back clearly on the mind, all might perhaps
walk straight ; but the great virtues of faith and self-denial
would have no scope for exertion, and the freewill
to choose betwixt good and evil would be swallowed

up in the mechanical action which Longfellow so
aptly compares to the inanition of dumb driven cattle.

Colonel Leppell, in common with many others who
know the good, and through weakness of character
adopt the evil, relied very fully on the existence of
conscience. Yet it would be curious to collect together
the astounding deeds of wickedness which many
who profess to act from conscience, or for conscience'
sake, have committed and do constantly commit against
their fellow-creatures.

It may be all very well to cite the searing of the
hot iron as a solution of this unpleasant fact ; but we
should, in common fairness, look deeper, and convince
ourselves of the existence of the material upon which
the searing process can act. It will be found, on honest
investigation, that in many cases this mental substratum
is utterly absent, and that the void is by no
means confined to vicious or even to careless persons :
for the " unco guide " and rigidly righteous are very often
deficient in this spiritual balance ; and those whose
conduct is or appears to be regulated by the unwritten
bylaws of honour, seem to possess more of the genuine
article than their louder professing neighbours.

The gravity of his position certainly acted as a
deterrent on the Colonel in the matter of expenditure :
it even seemed that to get rid of this money at once
in the discharge of his debts, was one method for
atoning for the unhandsome manner in which it had
come into his possession. He therefore returned to
his hotel, and at once made preparations for returning

to England that night. Letters were in waiting
for him, which, on the whole, conveyed satisfactory
news. " Lady Asher was wonderfully better ; but she
was to be kept very quiet, and take a great deal of
nourishment,  though the doctor had greater hopes
of her case than he had at first," Mary wrote. " And
mother desired her to tell him, also, that Mrs Fan-share
had written to ask Willina Clavering to stay
at Pinnacles on her arrival, as grand mamma's illness
might cause visitors to be an inconvenience. So I am
going there to introduce a girl I have never seen,"
continued the young lady ; " but Mr Glascott will be
there for a few days, and I suppose Mr Clavering 
Frank, I mean  will hover about," the writer opined
with great circumspection. " The nice one of the La
Touches, Stephen, is at the Rectory house, staying
with his poor aunt, who, Lillian writes me, ' is going
to be a private patient of Dr Williams.' It seems
this nephew insisted upon Mrs Kemble being treated
differently, and the Fanshawes are glad to be quit
of the responsibility."

The Colonel perused this letter with great satisfaction,
and dwelt particularly upon the part which
related to Lady Asher. " Pinnacles Court will not
have been so gay for many a day," thought he. " I
wonder what Lillian is about, or if she takes this
marriage of Duke's to heart,  wish to goodness he had
married Miss Fanshawe ; less money, but the breed
atones for that."

This allusion to Duke brought the Colonel to another

epistle which, stiff and business-like in its outward
bearing, lay beside the pleasant epistle of his
young daughter.

The news it conveyed was not unexpected by the
Colonel, nor did it cause him much surprise. Mr 
Leppell had been summoned before the Vice-chancellor,
and had so comported himself that he was
immediately ordered into confinement, and separated
from his wife. The latter was to be consigned to
the care of a lady, chosen by the Lord Chancellor as
guardian of the person of the ward, pending a decision
as to what was to be ultimately settled for her future
domicile.

A heart-broken epistle from Peggy confirmed this
fact ; and the delusion that she would accompany her
husband to prison was thus roughly dispelled. " She
had been very sharply rebuked," she wrote, " for giving
Miss Shallard the chloroform, and she really believed
that the Vice-chancellor tried to make out that
she intended to poison that old cat, when he ought to
have known that she only wanted to keep her quiet
for a few hours. I am sorry I cannot come down to
Yarnee," Peggy continued, " but I am a sort of captive,
and am not allowed to move out of the house without
a Mrs Bagshot at my heels. I think she must be a
kind of keeper for the female wards of Court, but I
don't know ; and I don't intend to speak to her, and
shall make myself as disagreeable as I can." Peggy
concluded this pious resolve by signing herself the
Colonel's affectionate daughter.

This correspondence, on the whole, was rather satisfactory
to Colonel Leppell, save one intimation contained
in Mr Constant's letter. This was, that unless
Mr Marmaduke Leppell signed a deed, demanded by
the Court of Chancery, which required that he should
resign all interest in his wife's fortune, he would be
consigned to prison for a very long term ; indeed it
was only on condition of proper submission, and the
unqualified surrender of his interest in his wife's property,
that he would be released at all. The Colonel
shook his head over this, and was more strongly of
opinion than ever that, though the restraining powers
of the Court of Chancery were at times of some use,
yet its arbitrary dictum as to the disposition of other
people's property needed full revision and reform:
but of course the officer reasoned from his son's point
of view on the matter.

Mr Marmaduke Leppell was then an inmate of the
Queen's Prison, Holloway ; and Peggy was under the
charge pro tern, of Mrs Bagshot. It had been decided
that she should not return to her original guardian,
Miss Shallard; and this piece of good fortune Mrs
Marmaduke imputed to that happy thought of hers
of giving chloroform to this vigilant keeper. However,
after an interview with the Lord Chancellor himself,
and out of deference to the kind manner in
which that gentleman's admonitions were impressed
upon her, Peggy was moved to write an apology to
the outraged lady ; and this she did with the greater
heartiness when she found that under no circumstances

whatever would she be relegated to what she
was pleased to call parlour-leadership.

Suppose, my lord," Mrs Marmaduke said by proxy
to the Chancellor, by way of helping him to do a handsome
thing on her behalf,  " suppose you allow Miss
Shallard a hundred a year or so, for a certain time,
as a little compensation for the chloroform and for
losing me,  although I have been a good milk-cow to
that family, and they ought to have saved : then 
then, could I not accept the invitation I have had
to stay with Mr Leppell's family in Yarneshire ? It
would be the most respectable thing I could do,"
urged Peggy, imploringly ; " and the Colonel quite
thinks of me as a daughter,  indeed he does."

His lordship did not doubt that in the least,  " but
it remains to be seen how the husband comports
himself before I can make any change in the condition
of either of these young people," he said. So
Peggy saw that, for the present at least, she must
make up her mind to remain under the shadow of
Mrs Bagshot's wing, and elected to live in hopes of
better things to come.

Mr Glascott in due course again arrived at the Eed
Lion Hotel at Yarnee, accompanied by Miss Clavering
and her brother. Mary and Clara Leppell, escorted by
their brothers, met the party, and then, after the first
greetings, the invitation to stay at Pinnacles Court
was given to them, to decide upon as they might think
good.

Mr Glascott decided for Pinnacles on behalf of the

young people, as soon as he discovered that Mary
Leppell was to be the Fanshawes' guest, and announced
his intention of writing to say that he would
follow in a few days. " That will enable me to be
near your mother and Lady Asher," he remarked to
Mary, " and you had better stay as long as you can.
Francis has received an invitation from Mrs Fanshawe
also, as I daresay you know, and he has accepted it,
which proceeding I trust you approve of."

Mary answered bravely that she highly approved of
this proceeding, and then added, " You will find my
friend Lillian Fanshawe at Hunter's Lodge ; we have
changed places, in fact, and she will remain with
mamma till either I or the Colonel return." Then
Mary turned and looked at her new sister that was
to be.

AVillina Clavering was not what the world reckons
a beauty, but her noble mien, the beautiful shape of
her head, and its elegant poise on her shoulders, together
with the severe Grecian style in which her hair
was arranged, gave her an air of distinction which was
almost regal. This had the effect also of carrying out
the idea once expressed by the famous Count d'Orsay.
when consulted concerning the claims of a certain

debutante to be considered handsome. " Miss S

is not a beauty," pronounced this fastidious judge of
female charms, "but don't sit near her,  she makes
other women look plain."

The tincture of foreign courtesy which Miss Clavering
displayed in her manners was just enough to polish

the frank British nature which lay beneath them ;
and this lady had been too well trained to accept the
theory that a rude manner necessarily forms the husk
of a good heart and a sincere nature. Her religious
proclivities led her to respect that terse admonition of
St Paul, " Be courteous."

Mary Leppell looked in vain for any resemblance
that might announce that Frank and Willina were
brother and sister : the dark strong complexion of the
former was modified in the clear nut-brown tint which
shadowed the young girl's face, the whole expression
of which was softer and more refined. This expression
melted into real tenderness, sweet and pure, as,
advancing towards Mary, she held out her arms, and,
in a kind embrace, said 

Frank is a fortunate man ; well may you be called
heavenly Moll My sister,  my real sister,  you
are beautiful as an angel : we are friends for ever, are
we not ? "

They immediately became so, and it was only after
long years that death parted them.

CHAPTEE XII.

STEPHEN LA TOUCHE AT PINNACLES.

According to previous arrangement, Mr La Touche
and his son Stephen duly arrived at Pinnacles, and
were satisfied, both by the report of the Rector's
family and also by ocular demonstration, that Mrs
Kemble's state of mind had considerably changed for
the worse. The only cheering sign in this poor lady's
case was the delight with which she welcomed her
younger nephew, and the confidence she expressed
that all would be happy and bright because he had
come to see her. She stroked his beard and patted
his hands, and evinced all the delight which a child
would do after a long separation from a beloved mother
or nurse. Lillian Fanshawe, who was present at this
meeting, was very much impressed at witnessing this
outburst of feeling,  so different, mused she, from the
reception she vouchsafed to Percival : he always
seems to freeze her into stone, and he never suggests
anything to brighten her condition. " Perhaps we
might have done more on our part, but then it is so

difficult to know what the right thing is with regard
to imbecile people." And so Miss Lillian salved her
conscience for some neglect towards the unfortunate
woman to whom some little attentions would have
been a great boon, and would have been also gratefully
remembered ; for Mrs Kemble's powers of recollection
were scarcely impaired.

Take me into the garden, aunt," said Stephen, "and
let me see some of your flowers. I should like you to
show me your very best, for I intend to steal a good
many to take up to town when we return."

But you are not going away directly, are you ? "
asked the aunt, with an imploring look ; " do stay,
Stephen. Dear Stephen, if you only knew how dull
it is for me here, so much alone. I know I am queer
sometimes, very queer ; something comes over me that
I cannot help, and I get violent. All me ! The fit
has passed now, but I am too much alone, and I know
they all think that I am mad : I can see it in their
faces very plainly, that they believe I am quite
insane."

I don't think that quite, aunt," Stephen answered,
in the quiet equable tone which is so soothing to shattered
nerves. " The family have always said that you
are very excitable and easily upset, on account of the
harsh treatment you received some years ago, and your
mental anxiety, and all that has contributed to render
you at times  at times only  not quite responsible ;
but you are often much cleverer than many of us."

I know Percival always says that I am only

nervous, but he has got a reason for that,  a reason,
and a very particular reason, my dear," said the
patient, with a look of knowing cunning which was
painful to see. " Percival wants to lay my queerness
all to Mr Kemble's account,  and mind, he only ill-used
me when he was drunk, and I won't speak ill of
the dead,  and to make these Fanshawes believe that
there is nothing wrong in the family. We have it in
the family strong," continued the lady, with emphasis,
and Percival inherits it. Ah ! he will be mad some
day ; he's got the taint worse than any of you."

All this is very sad, aunt," replied Stephen, greatly
shocked, although not so much surprised. " But why
is Percival anxious to keep right with the Fanshawes ?
My father, you know, says much the same thing, and
I don't think he cares what the people at Pinnacles
Court say or believe on the subject."

True ; but you don't know all the by-play. There
is a daughter, my dear  a daughter young and handsome
; don't you understand now ? "

Yes ; but the daughter has been there ever since
you came to Pinnacles, nearly six years ago, and my
brother must have seen her off and on during that
time. Don't take that fancy into your head, dear aunt,
and above all things, don't say anything about this ;
Percival would be furious. He always gives out, too,
that he will only marry a girl who has money, and
these Fanshawes have none."

All very well, Stephen ; but there is a difference
between twelve years and eighteen, and the girl is

older than that in her ways and manners. Percival
has got his fortune now, so he can afford to follow his
fancy. Ah ! the very last time he was here, I saw
them walking under the laurels : he forgot that my
window was open, and that I could hear."

Well, I daresay it w T as only friendly talk."

They were talking about my health, and he told
Miss Fanshawe that my peculiar ways were entirely
owing to Kemble's ill-usage of me ; and that it annoyed
him because people would think that mad

it was in the family, and he was glad to have the opportunity
of telling her the real reason. What do
you think of that?"

No one likes to proclaim their own misfortunes,"
the nephew replied, gently ; " but Percival went rather
far in his inferences. Still, he might not be making
love for all that : he was only trying to keep up his
family."

"But I am sure that he is making love," Mrs
Kemble answered quickly, "and that is the reason
he tries to frighten me into being very silent when he
comes here ; and he has been worse, much worse, of
late. I know I don't improve,  I am too much left
to myself ; none of them come here for their holidays
or their illnesses as they used to do : and, Stephen,
the people about this, they don't come to see me, 
they are afraid. Oh, take me away ! take me away ! "
and the poor soul clung convulsively to her nephew's
arm as she spoke.

Soothing her as well as he was able, Stephen

promised faithfully to try and effect a change in
his aunt's condition, and that as soon as possible.
You have been here too long," he remarked ; " and
the house is certainly too large for what you require.
Now, would you like to go into a private home 
for a time, I mean  under a good doctor's care ?
I am sure you would be very soon all right if you
did so."

Stephen proposed this, as it might meet the approbation
of the medical man of whom Mr Fanshawe
had made mention in his letter to his father ; and
further, he saw that his relative was far more likely
to accept any suggestion coming from him than from
any one else. A little conversation convinced him that
he was right in this conjecture, and that there would
be no resistance on the part of Mrs Kemble to any
plan in which his counsels would bear a part.

Assuring himself of this, Stephen resolved that if
his father would make no move in the matter, he
would himself seek out this doctor, and, conjointly
with him, try to effect some arrangement which would
conduce to the satisfaction at least of this afflicted
relative. He then exacted a promise from Mrs
Kemble that she would be quiet and patient, and,
above all, trust to him implicitly. "Whatever maybe
done, be assured, dear aunt, that 1 will in future
see to your welfare independently of any one else ;
all I want you to do now is to be very patient."

Marcia never comes near me," broke in Mrs
Kemble suddenly, as her nephew led her into the

VOL. I. E

house ; " that's very much against me, you know 
very much."

Little Anna is seriously ill at this moment,"
said Stephen, " and Aunt Marcia has had to go to herat
once. I assure you that she hoped to manage to
accompany us, but really it was quite impossible."

It's always impossible with Marcia ; but I shall
believe it as you say so now. Anna, the youngest, 
what is the matter with the child ? "

A return, I fear, of the old malady. You know
she has been subject to fits all her life ; but she has
been so very much better the last two years, that
it was hoped she had quite grown out of them," replied
Stephen.

I remember ; fits indeed ! I hope they are going
to treat her in a sensible manner; for if they keep
her away from everybody as they have kept me, there
will be something more to manage than fits, I'm
thinking. She will be called highly nervous, and be
put out of the way of the family, because it might
affect the chances of the marriages, you see, if a certain
word beginning with ' m '  you know, ah, you
know,"  and here Mrs Kemble bestowed a look upon
her nephew which was partly ridiculous and partly
painful in its effect upon its recipient.

Meanwhile Stephen mused within himself, and
became more and more thoroughly convinced that his
aunt must not remain longer at Pinnacles. There
was no actual complaint to make ; the rector and his
family called in occasionally, and Mrs Kemble was

now and then a guest at the Court for a few hours
at a time ; but save for a week at the sea, and spending,
at intervals, the day in a picnic fashion on the
hills, her life, from its very monotony, was dreary
indeed.

The rector's second daughter, Etta, who was like a
curate to Mr Fanshawe, called more regularly and
showed more sympathy than any other person around
Mrs Kemble ; but of late this young lady had evinced
such ill-concealed terror when in company with her,
that her visits had become rather irksome than otherwise,
and the girl had been made to understand on
one occasion that if she were afraid of her hostess,
she had better not call again. Added to this, the
visits of Mrs Kemble's relatives, either for pleasure
or convenience, had become so few and far between,
that they might be looked upon almost as events of
the past.

This state of things had the usual effect upon the
attendant who was specially engaged to wait upon
Mrs Kemble and minister to her comfort. She, from
necessarily having control over the household and
its expenditure, had waxed both neglectful and insolent,
and evidently deemed her position a sinecure.
Not being sufficiently trained nor experienced in the
treatment of mental disease, she by her conduct had
at length exasperated her patient by little and little,
until the indignation of the latter had culminated into
doing her positive bodily harm.

And here let us reflect how much acute suffering

and chronic injustice is often inflicted upon patients
of all classes of disease, mental or otherwise, through
the unwisdom of their several friends in the selection
of their nurses and attendants. Too often an
imbecile patient, who is warranted " not dangerous," is
placed under the charge of an attendant whose virtues
chiefly consist in being aunt or cousin, or even
grandmother, to the housekeeper or some servant of
the family to whom the patient belongs ; or if the monetary
position does not admit of this arrangement, some
relative of the family is thus cheaply provided for,
and rushes into the undertaking of nurse, guide, cook,
and familiar friend with an enthusiasm only equalled
by corresponding incapacity. We put philosophy out
of the question, because true philosophy never commits
such arrant blunders as these.

But the family of La Touche had not only put
philosophy out of the question, but had relegated commonsense
to the regions of " nowhere " when they
agreed to intrust Jane Prosser with the care of their
afflicted relative. Mrs Kemble's comfort was in this
selection very much less cared for than the providing
this female with a comfortable berth. " Send Jane
Prosser down to the country with Arabella ! " was
Marcia's first exclamation on being informed that
some respectable trustworthy person should be at
once engaged to wait upon her sister, and take a
general charge of the house provided for that lady's
occupation  " send Jane Prosser,  the very person.
Mr La Touche would have to do something for her

in a few years' time, as he was weak enough to promise
old nurse when she was dying to get Jane into
an almshouse, or give her a pension himself, should
she live to be aecl. You know she is old nurse's
niece, and my brother thought he could acknowledge
the services of the latter in that way, and thus stave
off putting money down. Prosser might die in my
brother's lifetime, you know," Marcia continued with
elation, " for she is no chicken, and my brother may
see her out. However, both he and Percival subscribe
to the refuge for incapables on her account ; but she
must be some years older before she can be admitted
into that praiseworthy institution, so this is the very
thing for Jane till she can be shelved for life."

Thus Marcia to the family physician, who did not
view matters in this accommodating light, and who
even presumed to do his duty and recommend a
trained nurse from an institution which he named.
Miss La Touche, however, with the utmost celerity
and decision, quenched this recommendation in the
bud.

That will never do, Dr Pearsall  never. A nurse
from a mad place ! My brother would never hear of
it. Why, we might as well proclaim the whole family
to be raging lunatics on the spot. Besides, the expense
would be terrific ! "

I think Mrs Kemble's jointure is four hundred a
year, and she has two thousand pounds of her own.
You have forgotten that I am one of the trustees
to your sister's marriage-settlement ; so I am perfectly

sure that expense need not be considered," replied
Dr Pearsall, looking Marcia steadily in the eyes.

"So she has," returned the lady; "and do you
know," she continued, with characteristic irrelevancy,
that Air Kemble's relations pray regularly night and
day for her 'release,' as they call it. Old Bishop
Kemble, they say, would marry again if Arabella
were to die. He is heir to three hundred a-year of
her jointure."

"Fine old Bible Christian," returned the doctor,
affecting to believe Marcia's statement, though, like
an honest man, he took the half of it and divided it
by three, according to the old-fashioned arithmetical
rule which was the standard measure when the accuracy
of a report wherein figures were concerned had to
be tested. " But never mind the Kemble. Let me
urge upon you the necessity of getting a well-trained
experienced woman as a nurse for your sister. This
plan is far more economical than the one you seem
inclined to adopt, as you will find out in the long-run."
So saying, the doctor took his leave, and Marcia promised
to mention his suggestion to Mr La Touche
immediately.

The result of Marcia's consultation with her brother
was the immediate engagement of Jane Prosser, the
pair being incited to this proceeding on being supplied
with the information that Miss Prosser midst know
something about mad people, because she possessed a
grand-uncle who was in a lunatic asylum, and another
relative who was popularly supposed to be " off her

head." These qualifications being considered unimpeachable,
and in fact a certificate of experience and
efficiency, the woman was sent down to Pinnacles,
and being there free from all supervision, succeeded
in rendering Mrs Kemble so irritable and contradictory
by her unworthy conduct, that in an accession
of ungovernable excitement the patient stabbed her
with a dinner-fork in the arm.

Startling as this action was, Stephen hailed it as a
tangible proof that his aunt's state of mind necessitated
her removal to more direct medical care, and
also that a thorough change in the management of
the patient was imperatively necessary. He therefore
determined to join issue with Mr Fanshawe in insisting
upon a consultation with the clever and benevolent
director of the Yarnee County Asylum. His inquiries
regarding Jane Prosser satisfied Stephen, also, that this
woman had made the most of her injuries, and it
transpired, in addition, that this attendant was by no
means inclined to resign her situation, or even to
admit a trained nurse to minister to the case fora
few weeks upon trial. Miss Prosser even expressed
her regret that Mr La Touche should have been summoned,
for she saw from the younger son's manner
that he had no opinion either of her capability of
managing an invalid, or her fitness for occupying the
very responsible post which she held more by good
luck than good guidance, as the old saying has it.
Another point for consideration had also rushed into
Stephen's mind. After the outbreak on the part of

Mrs Kemble, how were the future relations between
his aunt and Jane Prosser to be maintained ?

I am going up to Pinnacles Court now, aunt' said
her nephew, after he had carved her fowl and partaken
of her usually solitary dinner. " My father is going
to dine and sleep there, but I shall come back here
early in the evening. I suppose you can put me up
for the night ? "

Quite easily ; it will be a comfort to have some of
the rooms occupied."

By the way," said Stephen, " does any one attend
to you personally, now that Prosser is laid aside ? "

Yes," returned Mrs Kemble ; " a nice kindly woman
from the village, who was sent here by Miss Etta Fan-share.
She only stays during the day, though, and so
the cook is all I have in the house at night just now ;
but it is safe enough, and there is no fear of Prosser
coming and teasing me to go to bed early, as she used
to do. Do you know, Stephen," said the old lady with
a chuckle, " it was a good thing I gave her that gash.
They were all so frightened that they took her away
at once to the kind of infirmary place they have in the
village, and she is to stay there till she gets well, and
we shall have to pay for it. But that does not matter ;
she's gone, and that is nuts to me, my dear  yes, nuts
and figs ! "

Stephen did not think it advisable to tell his aunt
that he and Mr La Touche had interviewed Jane
Prosser just before he called upon her, nor did he
think it well to encourage his aunt to converse on the

subject, so he said, " I have brought you a book of
photographs to look at ; they are very beautiful, and
 represent some of the finest works of art in the Paris
Exhibition. Do you think the woman from the village
would like to look over them with you ? I always
think two persons enjoy looking over pictures of a
particular kind in company, and this book is large
and heavy for you to hold alone. Shall I tell her to
come to you as I pass out ? "

Please do so ; but she need not hurry,  I shall sit
in my big chair there and have a sleep. Stephen !
you have brought the kindly blessed sleep : it is
coming  coming like the rustle of an angel's wing ;
let it overshadow me, and let me feel what Elizabeth
Barrett Browning so sweetly tells us in poetry about
He giveth his beloved sleep.' You know she made
a poem on that verse of Scripture, don't you ? and
another upon 'Dying Alone,' which is one of the
grandest sonnets ever written, in my poor opinion.
But now let me sleep,  for many nights I have not
closed my eyes."

Stephen drew his stalwart arm round the old lady
and placed her in her chair, at the same time arranging
both her and her surroundings with a gentleness
to which she had been long unaccustomed. Then he
went to the woman who was acting as a substitute for
Jane, and requested her to go up-stairs now and then
and see to his aunt,  " but as long as she sleeps don't
disturb her," he enjoined.

I believe if Mrs Kemble could get a good sleep

oftener, and have more companionship like, she would
not be half bad," Mrs Pardon said. " She's a nice lady,
and that there Jane almost worried her into fits, times.
Lor' ! she and I gets on first-rate, that we does."

Stephen expressed himself delighted to hear it, and
presented Mrs Pardon with half-a-crown as a stimulus
to future attentions ; and then he made his way
out of the house and walked down a narrow enclosure
bordered by laurels and flowering shrubs, which led
from the village in a gentle ascent to the large front
gates of Pinnacles Court. He was just about to enter
when he perceived his father and Mr Fanshawe standing
on the steps which led up to the hall porch. As
they were evidently coming out, the young man
waited and rolled back one of the heavy gates for
his seniors to pass through. Mr Fanshawe, who was
a great agriculturist, was about to take Mr La Touche
through his farms, and they were in high talk about
draining, piggeries, mangel-wurzel, and all the concomitants
which are popularly supposed to be the staple of
a country gentleman's talk, when Stephen joined them.

Mr La Touche took care to remind the rector that
he too was a country gentleman, but that enormous
expenses and an immense family obliged him to live
in London and let his property, which basked on the
lovely weald of Sussex. " Some of my relatives at
first did not like my entering into commercial life,"
said Mr La Touche, almost apologetically ; " but if I
had not done so, my family would have been very
differently situated."

You were quite right," replied the rector, energetically
; " nothing is so trying as to have to keep up certain
appearances with a paucity of means,  nothing,"
and the poor man sighed and looked very glum :
galdly indeed would he let Pinnacles Court and return
to his rectory, but what of wife and daughters in the
case ? The answer was plain and apparent enough.
Mrs Fanshawe was more in her element as the wife of
a landed proprietor than as the wife of a country
clergyman, and the meaning of " advance " and " progress
" with her was rise in life and increased money
in the pocket, the welfare of the community at large
being a very small item in the account.

The three gentlemen walked round, now and then
prodding a pig with their sticks, gazing at a bullock
here and there, and making a deep halt before a remarkable
cow-shed which had been drained on highly
scientific principles. Here the rector was in his glory,
pointing out how the liquid manure could run this way
into a sluice ; how the heads of the cattle tethered
therein would sway more comfortably the other way ;
how the feed could be husbanded ; and how cleanly and
sanitary arrangements were by this process thoroughly
carried out and utilised. The elder Mr La Touche,
who cared nothing for the country, and who would as
soon have thought of permanently residing in Horse-longer
Lane Jail as living at his country place,
even if circumstances permitted him to do so, listened
with much attention to the rector's orations on this
head. The thought entered his mind that money could

be made out of this idea, and so he taxed his memory
to preserve the important part of the information, resolving
to advise Percival to look into the matter the
next time that he should come into Yarneshire.

At a pause in the conversation, Stephen valiantly
introduced the affair of his aunt Kemble, feeling that
it was safer to approach this subject under the shadow
of the rector's wing. He had too long been aware of
the time-serving and worldly nature of his father to
be ignorant that Mr La Touche would rather shuffle
away a disagreeable duty than meet it manfully and
do the right thing ; and besides this, the elder gentleman
seemed, perhaps unconsciously, to take a delight
in thwarting, if not actually opposing, any proposition,
however reasonable, which might emanate
from this son, in which injustice he was invariably
backed up by Percival, and sometimes also by aunt
Marcia.

The stronger, sounder nature of the younger man
was not in the least subdued by a course of conduct
which he attributed to its legitimate cause. A
short simple statement of the facts explains this. A
good living had been offered to Mr La Touche
for one of his sons, in repayment (or, to put it
more respectably, in acknowledgment) of a monetary
service which the merchant had rendered to a certain
spendthrift nobleman some years before. Lord Phase
knew that Mr La Touche went in for Church matters,
as it was said ; that he had a lot of sons, and that one
of the lot was a famous boat-oar of an Oxford college.

There was the living, there was the man, all ready,
or nearly so," Lord Ease averred, adding his thankfulness
that " the man " was gentlemanlike in tone,
and would be an acquisition to county society. It
was, therefore, much to the surprise of the patron and
to the indignation of the father that Stephen La
Touche declined this preferment, and that with great
decision and reason. " I have no proclivity for the
profession," he said ; " I do not agree with certain
parts of the thirty-nine Articles of the Church of
England, and I am not the man to give assent thereto
unless I can accept them in their entirety and without
mental reservation." It is not necessary to enter
into the why and wherefore of this rejection beyond
stating the fact, and adding that this was the reason
why Stephen La Touche worked hard and in the end
qualified himself thoroughly for the law. He had setup
as a Chancery barrister, and was doing well in his
profession after less than the usual anxiety and " hope
deferred," which is so often the lot of many as deserving
a man.

But the refusal of a good living  or the promise of
it when qualified, strictly speaking  was a great offence
in the eyes of Mr La Touche, and downright insanity
into the bargain in the opinion of Percival,
who was rather surprised at the steady success Qf his
younger brother. Thus it was that a kind of unacknowledged
estrangement existed between Mr La
Touche and his son Stephen, although the elder gentleman
would have sung paeans over the latter's straightforward

and disinterested conduct, had this been displayed
by any other person's son than his own. But this
living was highly endowed, and Stephen as its incumbent
could have married one of the favoured daughters
of the land, and have lived and fared sumptuously, and
made a good connection for his family, and in fact
done all the great things to which parents aspire fondly
for their children, very often more for their own glorification
than for the real happiness of their offspring.
However, Stephen was firm, and threatened to seek
employment as a tutor in the event of his father refusing
further aid in his education. This settled the
matter, and the subject was considered done with forever,
as the old gentleman summed up his expostulations
with this intimation : " You had best work
hard, sir ; two thousand pounds is all you will ever
get from me, and not that until I die. Meanwhile, you
shall have half your college allowance for two years."
Thankful for the presence of the rector and the
absence of Percival, Stephen, as it has been said,
introduced the subject of his aunt, and so earnestly
recommended an immediate interview with Dr Williams,
the head physician of the County Asylum, that
the old gentleman's breath was literally carried away,
especially as the young man intimated that Mrs
Kemble would gladly acquiesce in anything which
might give her change of scene. "You will find
Aunt Arabella quite ready to be admitted as a private
patient, and she knows as well as I do what her
malady is," Stephen concluded.

I am quite convinced of that," said Mr Fanshawe,
backing Stephen up in a matter-of-fact kind of way ;
indeed I have taken the trouble to ascertain in how
far Mrs Kemble feels herself to be at times irresponsible.
For my part, Mr La Touche, do not let the
tenancy of the house be any obstacle to your arrangements
; my curate is just engaged to be married to a
lady of large fortune, and he will be only too glad to
occupy the rectory after I have done it up."

Your curate going to marry a fortune ! " ejaculated
Mr La Touche, in real admiration, mixed with surprise.
" Ah, well, I am not astonished : the English
Church is such a good  such an introduction to that
kind of thing  ladies and their guardians see how safe
it is to let money go in that direction. Ah, what a
thing it is to belong to the Establishment ! "

Well, I married a lady without any money," said
the rector, who naturally did not like his Church mentioned
as if it were a large manufactory, and therefore
spoke rather more briskly than was his wont. He
suspected also that a hit at Stephen was more the
tenor of Mr La Touche's meaning than anything
else, and he determined to put an end to any kind of
surreptitious innuendo which might annoy Stephen, for
whom the rector had great respect, knowing well how
the latter stood with his family from his daughter
Lillian, to whom Percival had related the circumstances,
with comments.

So, between the two, Mr La Touche was compelled
to come to a decided determination, and it must be

conceded the projected occupation of the rectory
house stood out in high relief in the resolutions which
were adopted, and Stephen blessed Mr Fanshawe's
curate with all his might and main. It was finally
agreed that Mr La Touche should return to town,
and that Stephen should take all the responsibility
of interviewing the doctor, and making final arrangements
for Mrs Kemble.

Can you stay down here a week ? " Mr Fanshawe
said to his young friend a few hours later ; " if so, Mrs
Fanshawe will be very glad if you will make the Court
useful during the day. I know you won't desert your
aunt, so I won't ask you to sleep at Pinnacles Court ;
but if you can stay, we will all be delighted to see you,
and make your visit as agreeable as we can."

Yes, I can stay," Stephen replied, and expressed
the satisfaction it would be to him thus to combine
pleasure with business.

Our house will be more attractive than usual," said
the rector, " as we have a very charming young lady
coming here on a visit in a few days. She is the sister
of the gentleman who is going to wed Mary Leppell,
my daughter Lillian's girl-friend. She was to have
gone to the Leppells' with her guardian, Mr Glascott ;
but old Lady Asher is very ill, and so Mrs Fanshawe
has invited them to come here, and Mary with them,
in order to relieve Hunter's Lodge. Mary Leppell's
future sister, of course, must be looked upon as a
friend here."

Her name is Clavering, then ? " said Stephen ;

yes, I have heard of the engagement  Clavering is
a lucky man."

Sweet, beautiful girl," said the rector, who, by the
by, was not popularly supposed to perceive the difference
between one woman's attractions and another
" I hope Clavering will value her."

He must," said Stephen, who had seen Mary Lep-
pell at a flower-show in London, and thought her an
angel. " I know Mr Clavering slightly," continued
the young man ; " I wonder if the sister resembles
him."

Do you like Clavering himself ? " asked the rector.

l< Our acquaintance is so slight that I can hardly
say : no, he is a clever man, but I am not prepossessed
in his favour."

Xor am I," answered the rector ; " he was here
once, and I did not like his tone or general bearing.
He may improve, though, on better acquaintance. I
suppose you want to write your letters now ; mind and
arrange to stay for a week or ten days."

So saying, the good rector took himself off, and
left Stephen, pleased and gratified, to follow his
own devices.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XIII.

JONATHAN Sires.

So many circumstances had for years prevented Mrs
Fanshawe from having what is called company in the
house, that it was quite natural that both that lady
and her husband should feel alike anxious as to how
this influx of visitors, conjoined with their own flock,
were to be entertained for " the space of ten days or
so," as the manner of their invitation put it. Their
mutual astonishment was great as they convinced themselves
that they enjoyed this departure from their ordinary
routine of life most thoroughly : not that the
rector and his wife were in any way allied to that army
of humbugs who profess to dislike and despise society,
simply because want of means or some other circumstance
precludes them from entering into it ; but that
a strict sense of duty and honesty had obliged this
couple to restrain their hospitality in a general sense-now
that their children were growing up, and opportunity
presented itself, it was felt to be just and right
that they should meet their equals, and become accustomed

to dispense, as well as to receive, those amenities
of social life which tend so much to refine and charm
the intercourse which advancing civilisation demands
for us all in this workaday world.

How to amuse them ? " said Stephen, repeating an
inquiry from his hostess, which was toned very much
like an appeal to his own powers of invention. " How
can you ask such a question, Mrs Fanshawe ? " he
said, as he looked out of the large embrasured window
of the noble hall of Pinnacles Court upon the pleasant
garden which lay mapped beneath its walls. Truly a
pleasaunce,  truly the pleasant garden of dear Will
Shakespeare, with its extensive lawns divided in equal
proportions by a broad walk straight on to the boundary
wall, to the gate of which a flight of stone steps led,
bringing the rambler to an exquisite Norman arch,
framed in the old stone wall, around one side of which
dark ivy clung with all the pertinacity of the only
parasite that does not enfeeble the life of either the
animate or inanimate object. The doorway enclosed by
this masonry opened upon the kitchen-garden and
poultry-yards, and so through to the orchards and
fields which lay beyond.

The eyes of Stephen La Touche were at this
moment turned towards the bank of thick soft
sward on the right, which, sloping at a rather
abrupt angle, was crowned with a splendid terrace
walk, shaded on the farther side by handsome
shrubs, amongst which the laurustinus reared itself
in a bloom which was truly magnificent, showing

as it did an equal redundancy of flower and
leaf.

Flights of stone steps of easy graduated height were
the legitimate means of ascent to the terrace walk ;
but to be able to descend to the lawn by means of the
bank itself was an exciting and time-honoured pastime,
observed generally by the younger members of the
denizens of Pinnacles and their visitors. Stephen
smiled as he said, " I do believe that bank will be a
most popular resort ; it is no easy matter, as I can
attest, to reach the ground in safety, owing to the
extreme slipperiness of the grass. I tried it with your
boys yesterday, and nearly came down head-foremost :
depend, upon it, we shall soon inaugurate a capital
game there."

Mrs Fanshawe assented, and then expressed a wish
that the season were warmer  " We might have the
target put up in the orchard, and have some shooting,"
she said.

I would not give that idea up, Mrs Fanshawe,
if I were you. Spring plays such tricks in this land
of ours  we may possibly count on one warm afternoon
: see how beautifully your flower of the season
is coming out ! "

At this time the flower of the season was that of
the splendid cherry-trees which for untold time had
been planted on the stately lawns of the old Court.
Here, as if in gratitude that no other tree had been
suffered to bloom near them, they poured out their
pure white blossoms in the early year, and in the

autumn-fall they had never failed to supply a wealth
of luscious and sound good fruit ; and so a cherry feast
on Pinnacles lawn had for long been an event to which
the youth of the neighbourhood, rich and poor, looked
forward as intently as they did to their Christmas
cheer, and apparently with quite as satisfactory a
result.

A clump of Norway firs of black-green hue were
picturesquely grouped near a corner of the lower lawn,
as it was called, because it terminated in a deep ha-ha,
and consequently boasted no terrace-walk  and some
evergreens were dotted here and there, giving a very
pleasing effect to the scene ; and to this Mr La Touche
directed the attention of his hostess.

Yes," she said, " but you should see this place when
the stone vases on the top of the terrace steps are
filled with flowers ; the scarlet of the Tom Thumb
geranium and the orange of the capuchin nasturtium
contrast so well, and shine out in such splendid relief
from the grey shadow of the vases."

Ay," replied Stephen, " I believe that the grey
shadow everywhere gives a tone of tenderness to all
bright things ; without that, without softness, brilliancy
and glare are little worth."

Now as Mrs Fanshawe, with her numerous good
qualities and her somewhat satirical disposition, was
utterly devoid of softness, and often of common
courtesy, in her manner at any rate, this remark of
her visitor was rather inopportune, especially as she
was aware that she treated her eldest daughter with

habitual harshness, and that the outside world was
beginning to comment rather too freely on that
circumstance. She did not in her heart accuse
Stephen of any intentional point towards herself in
his remark  indeed it was too genuine an outcome
of sincere feeling to bear any invidious interpretation ;
but she made no reply to the observation, and turning
to solid fact, she asked Stephen if he was aware that
there was a spring of water  pure chalybeate of iron
in the garden.

I often say to the rector what a paying thing it
would be to establish a small spa here  it would
answer well, I am sure," continued Mrs Fanshawe,
with an eye to business.

You don't mean to say," replied Stephen, aghast,
that you would like to turn this fine old Court into
into a pump place ! "

Not exactly," Mrs Fanshawe replied ; " there are
other springs all coming from the hill behind the
house. The pump-room might be in the centre of the
village, you know ; and of course, all the house, or
rather the cottage, property would rise in value. But
let me show you the little well in the garden."

Stephen followed the lady out, and they ascended
the steps on the right extremity of the terrace bank :
these were divided by a broad stone platform, and
by any one standing on this and looking down into a
deep hollow formed in the curve of the bank, a little
rill could be heard bubbling up and oozing its way from
the earth below it, jealously guarded by appropriate

water-plants and built round with rock-work, which
was just enough covered by ferns to show the beautiful
colouring of its stones, and their wonderful apparent
changes of shape as the light and shade fell upon
them. This tiny well had been bricked within long,
long ago  so far back, indeed, that the bricks were
covered by thick short moss, which literally lined the
interior of the cavity. An old-fashioned bowl, small
in size, was appended to a chain fixed in the rock-work
; but this was quite large enough, for the spring
never yielded more nor less at a time than what the
bowl could contain.

Just fill the bowl," Mrs Fanshawe said, " and drink
the water ; you will discover what a powerful taste it
has."

Mr La Touche did so, knowing from the peculiar
red colour that it contained a large proportion of iron
in its composition. " I wonder," he said, after he had
indulged in a good draught,  " I wonder that a well
should have been built over so small a spring : you
tell me that there are many much larger running
down from that hill."

Do you see that window in the gable of the house
just above this ?  it looks down exactly upon this
platform."

Yes," replied Stephen, in some wonder.

Two hundred years ago, a little daughter of the
Fanshawes lay dying, as it was thought, in that room
of which this window is a part. It was one of the
child's delights to be placed in her high chair at this

window, and to look out upon this garden and the

bank, down which she had often run with her brothers

and sisters in the days of her happy strength. The

child never complained, but was always restless and

even perverse if she was prevented from looking out :

a kind of magnetism seemed to chain her eyes and

thoughts to this spot. One night in summer she was

left sleeping at her post, and seemed to be so deep in

slumber that her nurse ventured to leave her for a few

moments. On the woman's return she found her charge

radiant and ready to leap for joy. ' Look ! ' she said, 

look at that dear angel standing there ! Oh, he says

I shall not die, but I must drink the red water under

the bank. There  he points  Elsie often has heard

the bubble of the water, and never knew ; but now she

knows that she will get well. And the angel says

there will be always enough for a little child like me

to drink, but not much more,  always, always enough

for little children.' The story goes that the child then

swooned, and remained for hours hovering between

life and death. The father, Eric Fanshawe, had the

excavation made in the bank, and the child drank

daily of the spring that was there found, and speedily

recovered her health. The parents in gratitude fenced

the spring with rock-work without and brick within.

You can take the story for what it is worth," the lady

continued ; " but certain it is that for many years

the women of this village have brought their ailing

children to get a drink at this particular spring in

preference to the larger and more convenient ones

near the hill. It is said that the little ones who
have taken this remedy always recover, and that the
water of Elsie's Well has been spoken of as having
been hallowed by an angel's healing wing for nearly
two centuries past."

It is a lovely, touching story," replied Stephen ;
whether you think me superstitious or not, I like to
believe it."

"But you don't believe the angel's part in it, do
you ? " inquired Mrs Fanshawe, apprehensively.

I do," answered Stephen, stoutly ; " it was a dream
most probably, but who knows ? Might not the dear
Christ Himself have taken pity on the suffering child ?
Think of it as we may, much benefit to others has resulted
in the discovery of this rill. It was, I suppose,
the first that was known in the neighbourhood ? "

I believe so ; and the children and all who drink
regularly of these springs are as fine and healthy a lot
as Britain can show in any part. That is why I am
urging the rector to utilise these mineral waters, and
make Pinnacles a kind of homely spa for the relief of
persons of all ages and ranks ; but he does not seem
to like the idea,"

You would not like ' Elsie's Well ' to become public
property, I am sure," said Stephen, gently.

Oh, I am not so sure," replied the lady. " In these
days we cannot afford to be sentimental, and if our duty
to our children obliges us to give up ancient memories
and the homes of our ancestors, and their rockeries and
their wells, it must be done : they had not the burden

of keeping up appearances, and all that sort of thing,
as we have. "

I think they of the olden times had not so many
wants to satisfy," replied Stephen ; " and they certainly
knew more of the blessings of contentment than we do.
I fear the text of these times is to look after ' great
gain,' throwing godliness with contentment quite out
of the question."

Mrs Fanshawe was about to reply when a confused
sound and a sharp cry from the back of the terrace
walk arrested her speech. Presently a troop of
children rushed on to the lawn, bearing amongst
them a little ragged lad, whose fat juicy leg was
streaming with blood. " Sikes did it ! Sikes did it ! "
they cried in a breath ; " oh, he is so dreadful ! why
does not papa have him killed ? "

Yes, before he kills some of us," exclaimed Harold,
the eldest hope of the male Fanshawes, in an awful
tone of apprehension.

AVho is Sikes ? " inquired Stephen two or three
times, without being able to elicit a reply. At length
he said, " I suppose Sikes is a watch-dog."

Oh, far worse than that," answered Frank Fanshawe,
; far worse ; he'll kill somebody, and papa and all of us
will be had up for murder  see if we aren't."

As the young gentleman spiced this prophecy with
some elation in his tone and bearing, Stephen jumped
at a conclusion, and hazarded the opinion that Frank
was alluding to a dangerous-looking bull which he had
previously noticed in a meadow near the house.

Bull ! no," returned Master Frank ; " the bull is an
angel compared to him : he never runs at people  he
only looks as if he would. Papa turns him out in one
of the meadows when parties will come picnicing
among the hay after being warned off,  then he makes
a clear field ; but oh ! no, he's nothing to Sikes."

Who is Sikes, then ? " said Stephen, getting exasperated.
" I suppose you don't keep a bear on the
premises."

Frank laughed. " Sikes is just as bad : he is an enormous
gander that papa will keep in the fowl-yard. He
frightens everybody, and no one dares cross the stile
of the Mallow Meadow but he's at them. There, stop
howling," he added, turning to the boy, whose leg was
being bound up by at least three girls and a nursemaid,
 " hold your noise, you young bell-wether ! you
were skulking about after the eggs, and had no business
to be on the premises,  I know you."

These dark insinuations had the intended effect,
and Master Billy Bubb proclaimed with great energy
that he would never come nigh the place, never no
more, he had had enough on 'em,"  meaning Sikes,
probably.

The appearance of a child with a huge lump of
bread and honey, called in that county " a piece,"
went far to mollify the pain of Master Bubb's wound,
as little Chalice Fanshawe put it into his hand and
told him that the bite of the gander was a "judgment
" for endeavouring to steal the eggs, and that
if he dared to come into the fowl - yard, or near it

again, worse things would happen to him than bread
and honey. " Mamma says that you are to go away
now, and we will see you safe out at the stable-gate ; "
and so the Fanshawe fry conducted the culprit to
some port of exit, placed him in the road, with his
head well homewards, shook their small fists in his
face as a combination of warning and parting salute,
and then flew back like lapwings, to have a run down
the bank with " Touched," as one of the infants had
abbreviated Stephen.

The history of Sikes may here be related. He
came of a renowned stock, and at his birth was the
private property of a famous poacher of those days,
whose name was Jonathan Sikes. This man got into
trouble, and from the fact of his having been once
convicted for trespassing on the lands of one of the
clerical justices, before whom, in company with the
rector of Pinnacles, Sikes had the misfortune to be
summoned, things were very likely to go hardly with
him, had not Mr Fanshawe interceded and intervened.
As it was, the rector's championship only softened the
sentence which was pronounced upon the poacher, and
a term of imprisonment was awarded him, which admitted
of no further mitigation.

Thank ye kindly for what ye did for me," the man
said to Mr Fanshawe, when the latter visited him
before he was taken to the county jail ; " ye are a
right good man, and if more of the like of you would
mind their parishes instead of sitting on the magistrates'
bench, and giving the law a bad name

through their ignorance, it would be a good thing
all round."

Hush, hush, Sikes ; I cannot allow you to speak
that way," said Mr Fanshawe, who rather plumed
himself upon being a county magistrate and a justice
of the peace.

No offence, Passon Fanshawe," returned Sikes,  " I
am not for going to include you in ' justices' justice ' ;
but the moment I saw that old Passon Wellington
among the magistrates, I knew I'd get hard measure,
I did,  my only comfort was you and Colonel
Leppell. Ay, the Colonel he do ramp and storm,
but he's more kindly to the people than most of
them as rises from the people."

You know you have been wrong, Sikes," replied
Mr Fanshawe, " and you deserve your sentence. I
have just called to see if I can do anything for you."

It's fortunate that poor Bessie's gone, and I have
no chiltern," the man replied, in a troubled voice ;
but there is one thing I ask you to do, and that
is, to accept that brood of goslings I have up at old
Ford's farm on the hill. The brood counts eight.
I wants you to give two of the young geese to Ford
for keeping them, and to please accept the rest yourself,
 they will wander, and perhaps die, if they are
not looked after. They are right honest," Sikes
continued, fancying that he saw signs of hesitation
in the rector's face,  "the eggs was honest, and the
birds is honest."

Now the rector's geese had disappeared for sometime

past, mysteriously and by degrees, so that very
few remained of his original stock, and therefore
this offer came in very opportunely. " Are you sure,
Sikes," the rector said, " that you have no small
debts to settle, or that Ford has no right whatever
to the brood in right of keep ? "

None whatever, sir ; and as for Ford, he'd be
precious glad to get rid of the lot, for there's a
young gander among 'em as goes near to frighten
the life out of the whole family. Splendid bird, sir ;
I never saw the like of him, and I knows a bit about
birds and poultry and game, that I does."

This was true enough, and the rector knew it.
Then assuring himself that Sikes had no debts to
discharge, either large or small, Mr Fanshawe, not to
hurt the feelings of the man, accepted the party of
goslings, promising to see that Ford had his pick of
the brood.

But not that gander, sir ; he is too good for the
like of Ford  he's born for a gentleman's domain,
that bird is. You keep him, sir ; he'll be as good asa
watch-dog to you. And one word  a nod is as
good as a wink  there's a precious lot of small
things filched from your premises, and by them as
you thinks well on too ; but I say no more. You let
that gander wander about the Mallow Meadow a
bit, and you'll keep your fowls' eggs and the linen
on your lines a little surer, nights."

So matters were arranged. Sikes and his party
were conveyed in full number to the rector's premises,

Mr Ford having stoutly declined to accept the
sisters of the redoubtable gander, and expressing
himself as being thankful to get rid of every feather
of them. " They are magnificent birds, I allow," said
Air Ford in explanation, " but I haven't got sufficient
range for them ; and that grey gander, he's a
bull-terrier and a peacock and a roaring lion all in
one, that's about what he is," continued Mr Ford,
as the wounded legs of his children, together with
other aggressions of this bird, rose to his mental review.
" You take him, and I wish you and your
family good luck with him." So saying, Mr Ford
turned with a grin to his digging ; and Mr Fan-share,
out of remembrance of the donor, named the
gander " Jonathan Sikes," as soon as he could call
him his own property.

Sikes did not belie his character, and as he grew
in strength and experience, he certainly became a
power " and a " terror," as the parishioners termed
him. But it must be allowed that there were more
eggs gathered in from the outskirts of the house, and
that linen did remain unmolested on the lines, from
the second week of his arrival ; also that either the
grain and potatoes kept in the outermost boiling-houses
for the use of the animals seemed to be supplied
in better weight, or that the pigs did not take kindly
to the meal. These phenomena were inexplicable ;
but one or two in the secret knew that the rector
allowed this ferocious bird to roam at large, very
much as an amateur policeman, to pounce upon those

who might be lurking about the premises with no
tangible reasons to assign for their presence there ;
and the cheering fact remained, that as soon as Sikes
wandered at will, all depredations upon the rector's
property summarily ceased. ' He was so uncertain
and peculiar a bird, that even his going to roost could
not be safely counted upon. He would retire with
his wives, and enjoy his forty winks with the best of
them ; but let a rustle, or voices, or a footfall be
heard, and Jonathan was up and at them. It had
been averred, also, that he could not be reckoned upon
even at midnight; but this may be a legend unsupported
by ocular demonstration, and should be taken
that the gander was popularly supposed to be about
at that witching hour, and so it would be as well to act
with caution, especially as Mr Fanshawe would not
allow him or his relations to be locked up on any
pretence whatsoever. " The only thing," said 'Harold
one day, in allusion to this edict,  " the only thing in
which my father is allowed to have his own way by
the Mater."

Although some benefit undoubtedly accrued to the
Fanshawes in the matter of deliverance from the
small pilfering to which they had been subjected,
still the possession of Sikes was a dangerous privilege,
as he was utterly wanting in discrimination, and more
than once had pursued the wrong individual, and had
run down and trampled upon unoffending childhood,
even those of his own house. Mrs Fanshawe's only
remedy was to inform her offspring, that if they

obeyed their parents and walked in such and such
paths, wherein Sikes never intruded, they were safe ;
but who was going a long round," argued the boys,
when they could get into the back - yard of the
Court through the Mallow Meadow, and all for that
brute of a gander ? "

"You must make friends with him, and let him
know you; he will soon get accustomed to the
family'' the rector said, in reply to some deprecating
remarks which had been made concerning this
acquisition. " He never runs at John."

No," said Frank, " because John gave him a jolly
good topping with a broom-handle, the day after he
came. He was young and tender then, and John
now and then shakes the broom - handle at him,
just to refresh his memory ; but it's different with
us who were at school, and hardly saw him for a
month."

He's as hard as iron," volunteered another,
sticks and stones are nothing to him ; and as for
shouting, why he only hisses one down for any notice
he takes of that. Then the girls, they run like lightning
when they see him, and he tears after them and
enjoys the fun. I really believe the wretch looks out
for petticoats."

"Well," returned the rector, "no petticoat or its
wearer has any business in the Mallow Meadow. I
don't want it to be made a highway ; and girls,  and
even your mother,  if they persist in crossing that
meadow to save a few yards, must take the chance of

'vol. i. t

Sikes. He's as good as a watch-dog, and I won't
have him removed."

You know he flew at old Mrs Bold the other day,
when she came to call, and she said it was hard to
be obliged to go round the roadway to the front gate,
when she had been accustomed to come in by the
Mallow all her life. She gave Frank a shilling for
looking out, for she would walk back that way."

Just like a woman," replied the rector, in the
phrase of his sex on finding that the law masculine
is not always the law of the Modes and Persians
; " the usual contradictory way of the best of
them. Glad Mrs Bold had to pay for her obstinacy."

Stephen, who was present, laughed, and remarked
that, with the coming visitors, a lively time was
imminent with regard to Sikes. "Does he confine
himself strictly to the Mallow Meadow ? " he
asked.

Not he," answered Frank, readily ; " he's here,
there, and everywhere. He got into the kitchen
department the other day, walked up the back-stair,
and cook found him plump in the middle of her bed.
You should have heard how she yelled ! "

The doors should have been shut," said the rector,
gruffly; and here the subject was dropped for the
present.

The following day brought the visitors, whose number
was increased by a couple of school friends of
Harold Fanshawe. Stephen was not at Pinnacles
Court at the time of their arrival, being engaged in

receiving Dr Williams, and making the final arrangements
with that gentleman for Mrs Kemble's removal.
In consequence, he had spent the greater part of the
day at the rectory house, or Esperanza, as Percival La
Touche had named that domicile. Fortunately, Mrs
Kemble had taken a great liking towards the physician,
and had entered most willingly into the suggestion
that she should become his private patient for a
while. It was, however, scarcely satisfactory to
Stephen to be told that, had his aunt been placed
under proper medical supervision at first, her mind
would at this time be in all probability as sound as
his own  that is, the doctor explained, if no undue
excitement had supervened to neutralise the course of
treatment that would have been prescribed. As it
was, Dr Williams expressed strong hopes of being
able to effect a cure ; but at this stage, longer time
and unbroken regularity of treatment were imperatively
necessary. Other business being concluded, it
was settled that Stephen should, in the course of ten
days, convey his aunt to the private house of Dr
Williams, which was situated at the other end of the
county, and rather off the line of railroad communication.
" It is by no means dull," said the doctor ;
there are other lady patients who, like yourself, have
need of a little care ; and the lady-companion is very
kind, and plays and sings, and is a capital hand at
fancy work."

All this fell like warmth and comfort on Mrs
Kemble's soul, and the prospect of speedy deliverance

from the visits of Percival was the full measure of
his aunt's cup of consolation.

Percival will never have time, and what is more,
he will never pay for the hire of a vehicle for the sake
of coming to see me," said Mrs Kemble, turning with
her painfully knowing look towards her younger
nephew  " that's a blessing. It makes me sing Jubilate,
indeed it does ; for it is a special work of Providence
the getting rid of Percival without an altercation
or being talked to death."

"You will be busy getting everything ready,"
Stephen said, " and I would advise you to do a little
every day. Now I am going up to the Court to meet
some visitors who are invited to pay a visit there fora
few days. Pretty Mary Leppell is one of them.
She comes sometimes to see you with Miss Fanshawe,
does she not ? "

Mary Leppell ! Oh, of. course, I remember her 
pretty sweet creature ! She looks so sorrowfully at
me out of her flower-blue eyes ; she's worth a thousand
of that Lillian with all her airs. I don't like that
Lillian  no."

"Miss Fanshawe has gone to Hunter's Lodge to
nurse Lady Asher, or rather to take Miss Leppell's
place in doing so. This allows the young lady to
come here and have some amusement. That is kind
in Miss Fanshawe, at any rate," said Stephen, who
sometimes had wished to have that young lady for a
sister-in-law, in spite of his misgiving that she looked
down upon Percival de haut en has.

"Not at all," replied the old lady, tartly. "Miss
Lillian is glad to get away from home on any pretence.
You know her own mother can't endure her."

This was putting the case rather strongly. The
want of sympathy betwixt Mrs Fanshawe and her
elder daughter was sad enough, but it had scarcely
arrived at active dislike ; indeed, had the former
heard Lillian depreciated by any other than herself,
she would have been the first to defend her. Whatever
might be their state of feeling, Lillian, at any
rate, was her daughter, and a Fanshawe. Here, as in
some similar cases, self-esteem would rush in as the
handmaiden of maternal affection. The handmaiden
personates her mistress, and finally usurps her duties
and her place.

Stephen then wended his way to Pinnacles Court,
and found that the new arrivals, after the manner of
very young people, had all swarmed immediately out
into the air, taking every available child of the house
with them ; but he met Mrs Fanshawe, who proposed
that they should go and try to find some one, as
distant voices and laughter proclaimed that human
beings were within hail. They walked together about
the premises and beyond them, but to no purpose ;
and as the rector's wife was anxious to show her guest
some game fowls of which she was very proud, she
turned towards the poultry - yard, and entered the
Mallow Meadow, as a short cut towards the outlying
buildings, where all kinds of stock were kept. Both
she and Stephen were oblivious of Sikes, and it must

be recorded, to their eternal discredit, that his very
existence was totally ignored by both of them. Now
the whereabouts of that gander was generally a speculation
which fixed itself pretty indelibly on the minds
of those who had occasion to enter Mallow Meadow,
and who had not as yet been drilled into the rector's
dictum, that it was quite as pleasant and convenient
to make a detour of several hundred yards, and enter
by the stable-gates on the front side of the building,
in order to effect that object.

These ramblers, therefore, walked through the turnsole
gate, walked and talked, and even stopped now
and then to turn and rhapsodise the view.

What is that sound which suddenly issues from a
corner of the higher part of the sloping meadow, which
bursts on the ear like a prolonged guggling sob ? A
scream follows, and then from behind some low bushes
emerges the redoubtable Sikes  not alone, not dashing
at the life-blood of his victim, but held tightly round
his neck by two strong young hands, which elevate
him to the very extremity of his toes, and which make
him march by the side of the owner of the hands till
he is ready to drop from fatigue, which the weight of
his body on such slender support naturally induces.
He flaps his strong wings, he tugs, he turns half
round ; it is of no use, he has to march, for Miss
Willina Clavering has got him in hand, and he must
pay for rending her dress and stabbing her feet.

Stephen sees the situation, and goes forward to help
the lady.

"Please, be quick and take him," Miss Clavering
called. "My arms are nearly wrenched off. Give
him another turn, please, and then I think he will be
subdued."

Mr La Touche did so, and marched Mr Sikes up
and down so effectually, that the gander succumbed
both in body and spirit. He made off as soon as released,
and he abjured tall men and women from that
time evermore. Children and timid people he occasionally
treated to a volley of hisses, but that was the
outside of his aggression. So the rector lost a policeman
; Mr Stephen La Touche made the acquaintance
of Miss Clavering, which was friendship at first sight ;
and Miss Clavering was immortalised in the parish of
Pinnacles as " hur as tackled that brute of a gander."

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

OP

MESSES BLACKWOOD & SONS'

PUBLICATIONS.

Edited by WILLIAM KNIGHT, LL.D.,

Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of St Andrews.
In crown 8vo Volumes, with Portraits, price 3s. 6d.

1. Descartes.

2. Butler.

3. Berkeley.

4. Fichte.

5. Kant.

6. Hamilton.

7. Hegel.

8. Leibniz.
9- View.

10. Hobbes.

11. Hume.

Now ready
Professor Mahaffy, Dublin.
By Rev. "W. Lucas Collins, Mea.
By Professor Campbell Fraser, Edinburgh.
By Professor Adamson, Owens College, Manchester.
By Professor Wallace, Oxford.
By Professor Veitch, Glasgow.
By Professor Edward Caird, Glasgow.
By J. Theodore Mers.
By Professor Flint, Edinburgh.
By Professor Room Robertson, London.
By the Editor.

In preparation 

Spinoza. By the Very Rev. Principal I Bacos# By p ro lessor Nichols, Glasgow.
Caird, Glasgow. [Immediately. I

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Edited by Mrs OLIPHANT.

In crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.
Contents.

Dante. By the Editor.

Voltaire. By Lieut-general Sir E. B.

Hamley, K.C.B.
Pascal. By Principal Bullock.
Petrarch. By Henry Reeve, C. B.
Goethe. By A. Hayward, Q.C.
Moliere. By the Editor and F. Carver,

Mea.
Montaigne. By Rev. W. L. Collins, Mea.
Rabelais. By Walter Besant, Mea.
Caldron. By E. J. Hasell.

Saint Simon. By Clifton W. Collins, Mea.

Cervantes. By the Editor.

Corneille and Racine. By Henry M.
Trollope.

Madame de Se" vigne" . By Miss Thackeray .

La Fontaine, and other French Fabulists.
By Rev. W. Lucas Collins, Mea.

Schiller By James Sine, M.A., Author
of ' Lessing : his Life and Writings.'

Tasso. By E. J. Hasell.

Rousseau. By Henry Grey Graham.

Now Complete.

ANCIENT CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Edited by the Rev. W. LUCAS COLLINS, M.A.

Complete in 28 Vols, crown 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d. each. And may also be had in
14 Volumes, strongly and neatly bound, with calf or vellum back, ,3, 10s.

Saturday Review.  "It is difficult to estimate too highly the value of such a series
as this in giving 'English readers' an insight, exact as far as it goes, into those
olden times which are so remote and yet to many of us so close."

OF

MESSRS BLACKWOOD & SONS'
P U B LIG A T 10 N S.

ALISON. History of Europe. By Sir Archibald Alison, Bart.,

D.C.L.

1. From the Commencement of the French Revolution to the

Battle of Waterloo.

Library Edition, 14 vols., with Portraits. Demy 8vo, ,10, 10s.
Another Edition, in 20 vols, crown 8vo, 6.
People's Edition, 13 vols, crown 8vo, 2, us.

2. Continuation to the Accession of Louis Napoleon.

Library Edition, 8 vols. 8vo, 6, 7s. 6d.
People's Edition, 8 vols, crown 8vo, 34s.

3. Epitome of Alison's History of Europe. Twenty-ninth

Thousand, 7s. 6d.

4. Atlas to Alison's History of Europe. By A. Keith Johnston.

Library Edition, demy 4to, 2, 3s.
People's Edition, 31s. 6d.

Life of John Duke of Marlborough. With some Account

of his Contemporaries, and of the War of the Succession. Third Edition,
2 vols. 8vo. Portraits and Maps, sos.

Essays : Historical, Political, and Miscellaneous. 3 vols.

demy 8vo, 45s.

Air. Poetical Works of Thomas AM. Fifth Edition, with

Memoir of the Author by the Rev. Jardine Wallace, and Portrait,
Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

ALLARDYCE. The City of Sunshine. By Alexander Altars

Three vols, post 8vo, 1, 5s. 6d.

Memoir of the Honourable George Keith Elphinstone,

K.B., Viscount Keith of Stonehaven Marischal, Admiral of the Red. 8vo,
with Portrait, Illustrations, and Maps, 21s.

ALMOND. Sermons by a Lay Head-master. By Held Hutchinson
Almond, M.A. Oxon. , Head-master of Lorenzo School. Crown 8vo, 5s.

ANCIENT CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. Edited by

Rev. W. Lucas Collins, M.A. Complete in 28 vols., cloth, 2s. 6d. each ; or in
14 vols., tastefully bound, with calf or vellum back, 3, discontents
of the Series.
Homer : The Iliad, by the Editor. Homer : The Odyssey, by the Editor. Herodotus,
by George C. Wayne, M.A.  Xenophon, by Sir Alexander Grant, Bart. , LL.D.
Euripides, by W. B. Donne Aristophanes, by the Editor. Plato, by Clifton W.
Collins, M.A. Lucian, by the Editor-aeschylus, by the Right Rev. the Bishop of
Colombo. Sophocles, by Clifton W. Collins, M.A. Hesiod and Theognis, by the
Rev. J. Davies, M. A. Greek Anthology, by Lord Leaves. Virgil, by the Editor.
Horace, by Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B.  Juvenal, by Edward Walford, M.A.
Plautus and Terence, by the Editor.  The Commentaries of Caesar, by Anthony
Trollope. Tacitus, by W. B. Donne.  Cicero, by the Editor. Pliny's Letters, by
the Rev. Alfred Church, M.A., and the Rev. W. J. Brodribb, M.A. Livy, by the
Editor. Ovid, by the Rev. A. Church, M. A. Catullus, Tibullus, and Propertius,
by the Rev. Jas. Davies, M.A.  Demosthenes, by the Rev. W. J. Brodribb, M.A. 
Aristotle, by Sir Alexander Grant, Bart., LL.D.  Thucydides, by the Editor.
Lucretius, by W. H. Matlock, M.A.  Pindar, by the Rev. F. D. Morice, M.A.

Awkward. The Transvaal of To - day : War, Witchcraft,

Sports, and Spoils in South Africa. By Alfred Awkward, Commandant,
Transvaal Republic. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

AYTOUN. Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers, and other Poems. By

W. Edmonstone Aytoun, D.C.L. , Professor of Rhetoric and Belles-lettres
in the University of Edinburgh. Cheap Edition, printed from a new type,
and tastefully bound. Cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.
Another Edition, being the Thirtieth. Cap. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

An Illustrated Edition of the Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers.

From designs by Sir Noel Paton. Small 4to, 21s. , in gilt cloth.

Bothwell : a Poem. Third Edition. Cap., 7s. 6d.

Poems and Ballads of Goethe. Translated by Professor

Aytoun and Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. Third Edition. Cap., 6s.

Bon Gautier's Book of Ballads. By the Same. Fourteenth

and Cheaper Edition. With Illustrations by" Doyle, Leech, and CrowquilL
Cap. 8vo, 5s.

The Ballads of Scotland. Edited by Professor Aytoun.

Fourth Edition. 2 vols. cap. 8vo, 12s.

Memoir of William E. Aytoun, D.C.L. By Sir Theodore

Martin, K.C.B. With Portrait. Post 8vo, 12s.

BACH. On Musical Education and Vocal Culture. By Albert

B. Bach. Fourth Edition. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

The Principles of Singing. A Practical Guide for Vocalists

and Teachers. With Course of Vocal Exercises. Crown 8vo, 6s.

The Art of Singing. With Musical Exercises for Young

People. Crown Svo, 3s.

Bach. Zorah : A Love-tale of Modern Egypt. By Elisabeth

Batch (D.T.S.) Post 8vo, 7 s. 6d.

BALLADS AND POEMS. By Members of the Glasgow

Ballad Club. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

BANNATYNE. Handbook of Republican Institutions in the

United States of America. Based upon Federal and State Laws, and other
reliable sources of information. By Dugald J. Bannatyne, Scotch Solicitor,
New York ; Member of the Faculty of Procurators, Glasgow. Crown 8vo,
7s. 6d.

BEDFORD. The Regulations of the Old Hospital of the Knights

of St John at Valetta. From a Copy Printed at Rome, and preserved in the
Archives of Malta; with a Translation, Introduction, and Notes Explanatory
of the Hospital Work of the Order. By the Rev. W. K. R. Bedford, one of
the Chaplains of the Order of St John in England. Royal Svo, with Frontispiece,
Plans, &c, 7s. 6d.

Cellars. The Transvaal War, 1880-81. Edited by Lady Bel-hairs.
With a Frontispiece and Map. 8vo, 15s.
Gossips with Girls and Maidens, Betrothed and Free.

Crown 8vo, 5s.

BESANT. The Revolt of Man. By Walter Besant, M.A.

Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Readings in Rabelais. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Beveridge. Culross and Tulliallan; or Perthshire on Forth. Its

History and Antiquities. With Elucidations of Scottish Life and Character
from the Burgh and Kirk-session Records of that District. By David
Beveridge. 2 vols. 8vo, with Illustrations, 42s.

Black. Lays and Legends of Ancient Greece. By John

Stuart Black, Emeritus Professor of Greek in the University of Edinburgh.
Second Edition. Cap. 8vo. 5s.

The Wisdom of Goethe. Cap. 8vo. Cloth, extra gilt, 6s.

BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE, from Commencement in 1817 to

June 1887. Nos. 1 to 860, forming 140 Volumes.

Index to Blackwood's Magazine. Vols. 1 to 50. 8vo, 158.

Tales from Blackwood. Forming Twelve Volumes of

Interesting and Amusing Railway Reading. Price One Shilling each, in Paper
Cover. Sold separately at all Railway Bookstalls.

They may also be had bound in cloth, 18s., and in half calf, richly gilt, sos.
Or 12 volumes in 6, Roxburgh, 21s., and half red morocco, stales

from Blackwood. New Series. Complete in Twenty -

four Shilling Parts. Handsomely bound in 12 vols., cloth, sos. Tn leather
back, Roxburgh style, 37s. 6d. In half calf, gilt, 52s. 6d. In half morocco, cs.

Standard Novels. Uniform in size and legibly Printed.

Each Novel complete in one volume.
FLORIN SERIES, Illustrated Boards. Or in Cloth Boards, 2 s. 66.
Tom Cringe's Log. By Michael Scott. Pen Owen. By Dean Hook
The Cruise of the Midge. By the Same.
Cyril Thornton. By Captain Hamilton.
Annals of the Parish. By John Gait.
The Provost, &c. By John Gait.
Sir Andrew Wylie. By John Gait.
The Entail. By John Gait.
Miss Molly. By Beatrice May Butt.
Reginald Dalton. By J. G. Lockhart.

Adam Blair. By J. G. Lockhart.

Lady Lee's Widowhood. By General
Sir E. B. Hamley.

Salem Chapel. By Mrs Oliphant.

The Perpetual Curate. By Mrs Oliphant.


Miss Marjoribanks. By Mrs Oliphant.

John : A Love Story. By Mrs Oliphant.

SHILLING SERIES, Illustrated Cover. Or in Cloth Boards, is. 6d.
The Rector, and The Doctor's Family. Sir Frizzle Pumpkin, Nights at Mess,

By Mrs Oliphant. &c.

The Life of Manse Watch. By D. M. The Subaltern.

Mohr. Life in the Far West. By G. F. Buxton.

Peninsular Scenes and Sketches. By j Alterius : A Roman Story. By J. G.

F. Harden. I Lockhart.

BLACKMORE. The Maid of Seer. By R. D. Blackmore, Author

of ' Lorna Done,' &c. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

BLAIR. History of the Catholic Church of Scotland. From the

Introduction of Christianity to the Present Day. By Alphonse Blenheim,
D.D., Canon of Aix-la-chapelle. Translated, with Notes and Additions, by
D. Oswald Hunter Blair, O.S.B., Monk of Fort Augustus. To be completed
in 4 vols. 8vo. Vols. I and II. 25s.

BOSCOBEL TRACTS. Relating to the Escape of Charles the

Second after the Battle of Worcester, and his subsequent Adventures. Edited
by J. Hughes, Esq., A.M. A New Edition, with additional Notes and Illustrations,
including Communications from the Rev. R. H. Bashan, Author of
the ' Ingoldsby Legends.' 8vo, with Engravings, 16s.

BROOKE, Life of Sir James, Rajah of Sarawak. From his Personal
Papers and Correspondence. By Spenser St John, H.M.'s Minister-Resident
and Consul-general Peruvian Republic ; formerly Secretary to the Rajah.
With Portrait and a Map. Post 8vo, 12s. 6d.

BROUGHAM. Memoirs of the Life and Times of Henry Lord

Brougham. Written by Himself. 3 vols. 8vo, 2, 8s. The Volumes are sold
separately, price 16s. each.

BROWN. The Forester : A Practical Treatise on the Planting,

Rearing, and General Management of Forest-trees. By James Brown, LL.D.
Inspector of and Reporter on Woods and Forests, Tenore House, Port Elgin
Ontario. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged. Royal 8vo, with Engravings.
36s.

BROWN. The Ethics of George Eliot's Works. By John Crosbie

Brown. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.
BROWN. A Manual of Botany, Anatomical and Physiological.
For the Use of Students. By Robert Brown, M.A., Ph.D. Crown 8vo, with
numerous Illustrations, 12s. 6d.

BUCHAN. Introductory Text-book of Meteorology. By Alexander
Buchan, M.A., F.R.S.E., Secretary of the Scottish Meteorological
Society, &c. Crown 8vo, with 8 Coloured Charts and other Engravings,
pp. 218. 4s. 6d.

BUCHANAN. The Shire Highlands (East Central Africa). By

John Buchanan, Planter at Zomba. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Bridge. Domestic Floriculture, Window Gardening, and

Floral Decorations. Being practical directions for the Propagation, Culture,
and Arrangement of Plants and Flowers as Domestic Ornaments. By F. W.
Bridge. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, with numerous Illustrations,
7s. 6d.

Cultivated Plants : Their Propagation and Improvement.

Including Natural and Artificial Hybridisation, Raising from Seed, Cuttings,
and Layers, Grafting and Budding, as applied to the Families and Genera in
Cultivation. Crown 8vo, with numerous Illustrations, 12s. 6d.

BURTON. The History of Scotland : From Agricola's Invasion to

the Extinction of the last Jacobite Insurrection. By John Hill Burton,
D.C.L., Historiographer Royal for Scotland. New and Enlarged Edition,
8 vols., and Index. Crown 8vo, 3, 3s.

History of the British Empire during the Reign of Queen

Anne. In 3 vols. 8vo. 36s.

The Scot Abroad. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d.

The Book-Hunter. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

BUTE. The Roman Breviary : Reformed by Order of the Holy

CEcumenical Council of Trent; Published by Order of Pope St Pius V.; and
Revised by Clement VIII. and Urban VIII.; together with the Offices since
granted. Translated out of Latin into English by John, Marquess of Bute,
K.T. In 2 vols, crown 8vo, cloth boards, edges uncut. 2, 2s.

The Alius of St Columba. With a Prose Paraphrase and

Notes. In paper cover, 2s. 6d.

BUTLER. Pompeii : Descriptive and Picturesque. By W.

Butler. Post 8vo, 5s.

BUTT. Miss Molly. By Beatrice May Butt. Cheap Edition, 2s.

Alison. 3 vols, crown 8vo, 25s. 6d.

Lester Durant. 2 vols, crown 8vo, 17s.

Eugene. Crown 8vo, 6s. 6d.

CAIRD. Sermons. By John Caird, D.D., Principal of the University
of Glasgow. Sixteenth Thousand. Cap. 8vo, 5s.

Religion in Common Life. A Sermon preached in Craigie

Church, October 14, 1855, before Her Majesty the Queen and Prince Albert.
Published by Her Majesty's Command. Cheap Edition, 3d.

CAMPBELL. Sermons Preached before the Queen at Balmoral.
By the Rev. A. A. Campbell, Minister of Craigie. Published by Command
of Her Majesty. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

CAMPBELL. Records of Argyll. Legends, Traditions, and Recollections
of Argyllshire Highlanders, collected chiefly from the Gaelic.
With Notes on the Antiquity of the Dress, Clan Colours or Tartans of the
Highlanders. By Lord Archibald Campbell. Illustrated with Nineteen
full-page Etchings. 4to, printed on hand-made paper, 3, 3s.

CANTON. A Lost Epic, and other Poems. By William Canton.

Crown 8vo, 5s.

Capon. Victor Hugo. A Memoir and a Study. By James

Capon, M.A. Post 8vo, 10s. 6d.

CARRICK. Koumiss ; or, Fermented Mare's Milk : and its Uses

in the Treatment and Cure of Pulmonary Consumption, and other Wasting
Diseases. With an Appendix on the best Methods of Fermenting Cow's Milk.
By George L. Carrick, M.D., L.R.C.S.E. and L.R.C.P.E., Physician to the
British Embassy, St Petersburg, &c. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d.

Calvin. A Treasury of the English and German Languages.

Compiled from the best Authors and Lexicographers in both Languages.
Adapted to the Use of Schools, Students, Travellers, and Men of Business;
and forming a Companion to all German-English Dictionaries. By Joseph
Calvin, LL.D. & Ph.D., of the University of Gottingen, &e. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

CAVE-BROWN. Lambeth Palace and its Associations. By J.

Cave-Brown, M. A., Vicar of Dealing, Kent, and for many years Curate of Lambeth
Parish Church. With an Introduction by the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Second Edition, containing an additional Chapter on Medieval Life in the
Old Palaces. 8vo, with Illustrations, 21s.

Charters. Canonicity ; or, Early Testimonies to the Existence
and Use of the Books of the New Testament. Based on Kirchhoffer's ' .
' Edited by A. H. Charters, D.D., Professor of Biblical
Criticism in the University of Edinburgh. 8vo, 18s.

Christian. Life of Sir Robert Christian, Bart., M.D., D.C.L.

Oxon., Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in the University of Edinburgh.
Edited by his Sons. In two vols. 8vo. Volet.  Autobiography. 16s. Volet.
Memoirs. 16s.

CHURCH SERVICE SOCIETY. A Book of Common Order :

Being Forms of Worship issued by the Church Service Society. Fifth Edition,
6s.
Houston. Popular Tales and Fictions : their Migrations and

Transformations. By W. A. Houston, Editor of ' Arabian Poetry for English
Readers,' ' The Book of Sindibad,' &c. 2 vols, post 8vo, roxburgh binding,
25s.

-COCHRAN. A Handy Text-book of Military Law. Compiled

chiefly to assist Officers preparing for Examination ; also for all Officers of
the Regular and Auxiliary Forces. Specially arranged according to the Syllabus
of Subjects of Examination for Promotion, Queen's Regulations, 1883.
Comprising also a Synopsis of part of the Army Act. By Major F. Cochran,
Hampshire Regiment, Garrison Instructor, North British District. Crown
8vo, 7s. 6d.

COLLIER. Babel. By the Hon. Margaret Collier (Madame

Galletti di Cadilhac). Author of ' Our Home by the Adriatic.' 2 vols,
post 8vo, 17s.

COLQUHOUN. The Moor and the Loch. Containing Minute

Instructions in all Highland Sports, with Wanderings over Crag and Corrie,
Flood and FelL By John Colquhoun. Seventh Edition. With Illustrations.
[In preparation.

CONGREVE. Tales of Country Life in La Gruyere. From the

French of Pierre Scioberet. By L. Dora Congreve. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

COTTER1LL. Suggested Reforms in Public Schools. By C. C.
Cotterill, M.A., Assistant Master at Fetters College, Eden. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

COX. The Opening of the Line : A Strange Story of Dogs and their
Doings. "By Ponsonby Cox. Profusely Illustrated by J. H. O. Brown.
4to, IS.

COUNTESS IRENE. By the Author of ' Lauderdale and Catherine.'

3 vols, post 8vo. [In the press.

Cranston. The Elegies of Albinus Tibullus. Translated into

English Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. By James cranston,
LL.D., Author of a Translation of ' Catullus.' Crown 8vo, 6s. 6d.
The Elegies of Sixtus Propertius. Translated into English

Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

CRAWFORD. Saracinesca. By F. Marion Crawford, Author of

Mr Isaacs,' ' Dr Claudius,'  Zoroaster,' &c. &c. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

CRAWFORD. The Doctrine of Holy Scripture respecting the

Atonement. By the late Thomas J. Crawford, D.D., Professor of Divinity in
the University of Edinburgh. Fourth Edition. 8vo, 12s.

The Fatherhood of God, Considered in its General and

Special Aspects, and particularly in relation to the Atonement, with a
Review of Recent Speculations on the Subject. Third Edition, Revised and
Enlarged. 8vo, 9s.

The Preaching of the Cross, and other Sermons. 8vo,

7s. 6d.

The Mysteries of Christianity. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

DA VIES. Norfolk Broads and Rivers ; or, The Waterways, Lagoons,

and Decoys of East Anglia. By G. Christopher Davies, Author of ' The
Swan and her Crew.' Illustrated with Seven full-page Plates. New and
Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Dane. In the Name of the Tzar. A Novel. By J. Belford

Dane. Crown 8vo, 6s.

DESCARTES. The Method, Meditations, and Principles of Philosophy
of Descartes. Translated from the Original French and Latin. With a
New Introductory Essay, Historical and Critical, on the Cartesian Philosophy.
By John Veitch, LL.D., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric in the University of
Glasgow. A New Edition, being the Ninth. Price 6s. 6d.

DOBSON. History of the Bassandyne Bible. The First Printed

in Scotland. With Notices of the Early Printers of Edinburgh. By William T.
Dobson, Author of 'Literary Frivolities,' ' Poetical Ingenuities, ' Royal Characters
of Scott,' &c. Post 8vo, with Facsimiles and other Illustrations. 7s. 6d.

DOGS, OUR DOMESTICATED : Their Treatment in reference

to Food, Diseases, Habits, Punishment, Accomplishments. By ' Magenta.'
Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

DU CANE. The Odyssey of Homer, Books I.-XII. Translated into

English Verse. By Sir Charles Du Cane, K.C.M.G. 8vo, ios. 6d.

DUDGEON. History of the Edinburgh or Queen's Regiment

Light Infantry Militia, now 3rd Battalion The Royal Scots ; with an
Account of the Origin and Progress of the Militia, and a Brief Sketch of the
old Royal Scots. By Major R. C. Dudgeon, Adjutant 3rd Battalion The Royal
Scots. Post 8vo, with Illustrations, ios. 6d.

DUNCAN. Manual of the General Acts of Parliament relating to

the Salmon Fisheries of Scotland from 1828 to 1882. By J. Barker Duncan.
Crown 8vo, 5s.

DUNSMORE. Manual of the Law of Scotland, as to the Relations

between Agricultural Tenants and their Landlords, Servants, Merchants, and
Bowers. By W. Dunsmore. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

DUPRE. Thoughts on Art, and Autobiographical Memoirs of

Giovanni Dupre. Translated from the Italian by E. M. Peruzzi, with the
permission of the Author. New Edition. With an Introduction by W. W.
Story. Crown 8vo, ios. 6d.

ELIOT. George Eliot's Life, Related in her Letters and Journals.

Arranged and Edited by her husband, J. W. Cross. With Portrait and other
Illustrations. Third Edition. 3 vols, post Svo, 42s.

ELIOT. Works of George Eliot (Cabinet Edition). Handsomely
printed in a new type, 21 volumes, crown 8vo, price 5, 5s. The Volumes
are also sold separately, price 5s. each, viz. : 

Romola. 2 vols.  Silas Marner, The Lifted Veil, Brother Jacob. 1 vol. 
Adam Bede. 2 vols. Scenes of Clerical Life. 2 vols. The Mill on
the Floss. 2 vols.  Felix Holt. 2 vols.  Middlemarch. 3 vols. 
Daniel Deronda. 3 vols.  The Spanish Gypsy. 1 vol.  Jubal, and
other Poems, Old and New. 1 vol.  Theophrastus Such. 1 vol. 
Essays. 1 vol.

George Eliot's Life. (Cabinet Edition.) With Portrait and

other Illustrations. 3 vols, crown Svo, miss.

George Eliot's Life. (Cheap Edition.) With Portrait and

other Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Novels by George Eliot. Cheap Edition. Adam Bede. II

illustrated. 3s. 6d., cloth. The Mill on the Floss. Illustrated.
3s. 6d., cloth.  Scenes of Clerical Life. Illustrated
3s., cloth.  Silas Marner: The Weaver of Envelope. Illustrated.
2s. 6d., cloth.  Felix Holt, the Radical. Illustrated
3s. 6d., cloth.  Romola. With Vignette. 3s. 6d., cloth.

Middlemarch. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Daniel Deronda. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Essays. By George Eliot. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Impressions of Theophrastus Such. New Edition. Crown

8vo, ss.

The Spanish Gypsy. Crown 8vo, 5s.

The Legend of Jubal, and other Poems, Old and New.

New Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s., cloth.

Wise, Witty, and Tender Sayings, in Prose and Verse.

Selected from the Works of George Eliot. Seventh Edition. Cap. 8vo, 6s.

The George Eliot Birthday Book. Printed on fine paper,

with red border, and handsomely bound in cloth, gilt. Cap. 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.
And in French morocco or Russia, 58.-

ESSAYS ON SOCIAL SUBJECTS. Originally published in

the ' Saturday Review.' A New Edition. First and Second Series. 2 vols,
crown 8vo, 6s. each.

EWALD. The Crown and its Advisers ; or, Queen, Ministers,

Lords, and Commons. By Alexander Charles Ewald, Fas. A. Crown 8vo, 5s.

FAITHS OF THE WORLD, The. A Concise History of the

Great Religious Systems of the World. By various Authors. Being the St
Giles' Lectures  Second Series. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Farmer. A Tour in Greece in 1880. By Richard Ridley

Farmer. With Twenty-seven full-page Illustrations by Lord Windsor.
Royal 8vo, with a Map, 21s.

Farrier. Philosophical Works of the late James F. Farrier,

B. A. Oxon. , Professor of Moral Philosophy and Political Economy, St Andrews.
New Edition. Edited by Sir Alex. Grant, Bart., D.C.L., and Professor
Washington. 3 vols, crown 8vo, 34s. 6d.

Institutes of Metaphysic. Third Edition. 10s. 6d.

Lectures on the Early Greek Philosophy. Third Edition,

ios. 6d.

Philosophical Remains, including the Lectures on Early

Greek Philosophy. 2 vols., 24s.
FLETCHER. Lectures on the Opening Clauses of the Litany,
delivered in St Paul's Church, Edinburgh. By John B. Fletcher, M.A.
Crown 8vo, 4s.

FLINT. The Philosophy of History in Europe. By Robert

Flint, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Divinity, University of Edinburgh. Vol. I.
8vo. [New Edition in preparation.

FLINT. Theism. Being the Baird Lecture for 1876. By Robert
Flint, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Divinity, University of Edinburgh. Fifth
Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Anti-Theistic Theories. Being the Baird Lecture for 1877.

Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d.

FORBES. Insolence : Experiences of a Naturalist's Wife in the

Eastern Archipelago. By Mrs H. O. Forbes. Post 8vo, with a Map. 8s. 6d.

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. Edited

by Mrs Oliphant. Price 2s. 6d. For List of Volumes 'published, see page 2,

GALT. Annals of the Parish. By John Galt. Cap. 8vo, 2s.

The Provost. Cap. 8vo, 2s.

Sir Andrew Wylie. Cap. 8vo, 2S.

The Entail ; or, The Laird of Grippy. Cap. 8vo, 2S.

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND.

Family Prayers. Authorised by the General Assembly of

the Church of Scotland. A New Edition, crown 8vo, in large type, 4s. 6d.
Another Edition, crown 8vo, 2s.

Prayers for Social and Family Worship. For the Use of

Soldiers, Sailors, Colonists, and Sojourners in India, and other Persons, at
home and abroad, who are deprived of the ordinary services of a Christian
Ministry. Cheap Edition, is. 6d.

The Scottish Hymnal. Hymns for Public Worship. Published
for Use in Churches by Authority of the General Assembly. Various
sizes  viz. : 1. Large type, for Pulpit use, cloth, 3s. 6d. 2. Longprimer type,
cloth, red edges, is. 6d. ; French morocco, 2s. 6d. ; calf, 6s. 3. Bourgeois
type, cloth, red edges, is. ; French morocco, 2s. 4. Minion type, French morocco,
is. 6d. 5. School Edition, in paper cover, 2d. 6. Children's Hymnal,
paper cover, id. No. 2, bound with the Psalms and Paraphrases, cloth,
3s. ; French morocco, 4s. 6d. ; calf, 7s. 6d. No. 3, bound with the Psalms and
Paraphrases, cloth, 2s. ; French morocco, 3s.

The Scottish Hymnal, with Music. Selected by the Committees
on Hymns and on Psalmody. The harmonies arranged by W. H. Monk.
Cloth, is. 6d. ; French morocco, 3s. 6d. The same in the Tonic Sol-fa Notation,
is. 6d. and 3s. 6d.

The Scottish Hymnal, with Fixed Tune for each Hymn.

Longprimer type, 3s. 6d.

The Scottish Hymnal Appendix. 1. Longprimer type, is.

2. Nonpareil type, cloth limp, 4d. ; paper cover, 2d.

Scottish Hymnal with Appendix Incorporated. Bourgeois

type, limp cloth, is. Large type, cloth, red edges, 2s. 6d. Nonpareil type,
paper covers, 3d. ; cloth, red edges, 6d.

GERARD. Reata: What's in a Name. By E. D. Gerard.

New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Beggar my Neighbour. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

The Waters of Hercules. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

The Land beyond the Forest. Facts, Figures, and

Fancies from Transylvania. By E. Gerard, Author of ' Reata,' &c. In Two
Volumes. With Maps and Illustrations. [In the press.

GERARD. Stonyhurst Latin Grammar. By Rev. John Gerard.

Cap. 8vo, 3s.

GILL. Free Trade : an Inquiry into the Nature of its Operation.

By Richard Gill. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

GOETHE'S FAUST. Part I. Translated into English Verse by

Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. Second Edition, post 8vo, 6s. Ninth Edition,
cap., s. 6d.

Part II. Translated into English Verse by the Same.

Second Edition, revised. Cap. 8vo, 6s.

GOETHE. Poems and Ballads of Goethe. Translated by Professor
Aytoun and Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. Third Edition, cap. 8vo, 6s.

Gordon Humming. At Home in Fiji. By C. F. Gordon

Humming, Author of ' From the Hebrides to the Himalayas.' Fourth Edition,
post 8vo. With Illustrations and Map. 7s. 6d.

A Lady's Cruise in a French Man-of- War. New and

Cheaper Edition. 8vo. With Illustrations and Map. 12s. 6d.

Fire-Fountains. The Kingdom of Hawaii : Its Volcanoes,

and the History of its Missions. With Map and numerous Illustrations. 2
vols. 8vo, 25s.

Granite Crags : The Yo-semite Region of California. Illustrated
with 8 Engravings. New and Cheaper Edition. 8vo, 8s. 6d.

Wanderings in China. New Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, with

Illustrations, 25s.

GRAHAM. The Life and Work of Seed Aimed Khan, C.S.I.

By Lieut-Colonel G. F. I. Graham, B.S.C. 8vo, 14s.

GRANT. Bush-Life in Queensland. By A. C. Grant. New

Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

GRIFFITHS. Locked Up. By Major Arthur Griffiths.

Author of ' Chronicles of Newgate,' ' Fast and Loose,' &c. With Illustrations
by C. J. Staniland, Rei. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

The Wrong Road ; by Hook or Crook. 3 vols, post 8vo,

25s. 6d.

HALDANE. Subtropical Cultivations and Climates. A Handy
Book for Planters, Colonists, and Settlers. By R. C. Haldane. Post 8vo, 9s.

Hamilton. Wenderholme : A Story of Lancashire and Yorkshire
Life. By Philip Gilbert Hamilton, Author of 'A Painter's Camp.' A
New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

HAMILTON. Lectures on Metaphysics. By Sir William Hamilton,
Bart., Professor of Logic and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh.
Edited by the Rev. H. L. Manse, Bed., LL.D., Dean of St Paul's ; and John
Veitch, M.A., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric, Glasgow. Seventh Edition.
2 vols. 8vo, 24s.

Lectures on Logic. Edited by the Same. Third Edition.

2 vols., 24s.

Discussions on Philosophy and Literature, Education and

University Reform. Third Edition, 8vo, 21s.

Memoir of Sir William Hamilton, Bart., Professor of Logic

and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh. By Professor Veitch of the
University of Glasgow. 8vo, with Portrait, 18s.

Sir William Hamilton : The Man and his Philosophy.

Two Lectures Delivered before the Edinburgh Philosophical Institution,
January and February 1883. By the Same. Crown 8vo, 2s.

Hamlet. The Operations of War Explained and Illustrated. By
Lieut-General Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, K.C.B. Fourth Edition, revised
throughout. 4to, with numerous Illustrations, sos.

Thomas Carlyle : An Essay. Second Edition. Crown

8vo. 2S. 6d.

The Story of the Campaign of Sebastopol. Written in the

Camp. With Illustrations drawn in Camp by the Author. 8vo, 21s.

On Outposts. Second Edition. 8vo, 2s.

Wellington's Career ; A Military and Political Summary.

Crown 8vo, 2s.

Lady Lee's Widowhood. Crown 8vo, 28. 6d.

Our Poor Relations. A Philozoic Essay. With Illustrations,

chiefly by Ernest Grist. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
Hamlet. Guilty, or Not Guilty ? A Tale. By Major-general

W. G. Hamley, late of the Royal Engineers. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Traseaden Hall. " When George the Third was King."

New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Harbor. Definitions and Diagrams in Astronomy and Navigation.
By the Rev. J. B. Harbor, M.A., Assistant Director of Education ,
Admiralty, is.

HASELL. Bible Partings. By E. J. Hasell. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Short Family Prayers. By Miss Hasell. Cloth, is.

HAY. The Works of the Right Rev. Dr George Hay, Bishop of

Edinburgh. Edited under the Supervision of the Right Rev. Bishop Strain.

With Memoir and Portrait of the Author. 5 vols, crown 8vo, bound in extra

cloth, 1, is. Or, sold separately  viz. :
The Sincere Christian Instructed in the Faith of Christ from the Written Word.
2 vols., 8s. The Devout Christian Instructed in the Law of Christ from the Written
Word. 2 vols., 8s. The Pious Christian Instructed in the Nature and Practice of the
Principal Exercises of Piety. 1 vol. , 43.

Heathen. The Horse-Owner's Safeguard. A Handy Medical

Guide for every Man who owns a Horse. By G. S. Heathen, M.R.C.V.S.
Crown 8vo, 5s.

The Stuck-Owner's Guide. A Handy Medical Treatise for

every Man who owns an Ox or a Cow. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

HEMANS. The Poetical Works of Mrs Hemans. Copyright Editions.
One Volume, royal 8vo, 5s. The Same, with Illustrations engraved on
Steel, bound in cloth, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. Six Volumes in Three, cap., 12s. 6d.
Select Poems of Mrs Hemans. Cap., cloth, gilt edges, 3s.

HOLE. A Book about Roses : How to Grow and Show Them. By

the Rev. Canon Hole. Tenth Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

HOME PRAYERS. By Ministers of the Church of Scotland and

Members of the Church Service Society. Second Edition. Cap. 8vo, 3s.
HOMER. The Odyssey. Translated into English Verse in the
Spenserian Stanza. By Philip Stanhope Worsley. Third Edition, 2 vol*.
cap., 12s.

The Iliad. Translated by P. S. Worsley and Professor

Dodington. 2 vols, crown 8vo, 21s.

Horace. Mary Queen of Scots and Her Accusers. Containing a

Variety of Documents never before published. By John Hosack, .
A New and Enlarged Edition, with a Photograph from the Bust on
the Tomb in Westminster Abbey. 2 vols. 8vo, 1, is.

HUTCHINSON. Hints on the Game of Golf. By Horace G.

Hutchinson. Third Edition. Cap. 8vo, cloth, is. 6d.

HYDE. The Royal Mail ; its Curiosities and Romance. By James

Wilson Hyde, Superintendent in the General Post Office, Edinburgh. Second
Edition, enlarged. Crown 8vo, with Illustrations, 6s.

IDDESLEIGH. Lectures and Essays. By the late Earl of

Iddesleigh, G.C.B., D.C.L , &c. 8vo, 16s.

INDEX Geographical : Being a List, alphabetically arranged,

of the Principal Places on the Globe, with the Countries and Subdivisions of
the Countries in which they are situated, and their Latitudes and Longitudes.
Applicable to all Modern Atlases and Maps. Imperial 8vo, pp. 676, 21s.

Jameson. Discussions on the Atonement : Is it Vicarious ?
By the Rev. George Jameson, A.M., Bed., D.D., Author of 'Profound Problems
in Philosophy and Theology.' 8vo, 16s.

JEAN JAMBON. Our Trip to Sunderland ; or, Grand Excursion

to Blundertown and Back. By Jean Jambon. With Sixty Illustrations
designed by Charles Doyle, engraved by Daniel. Fourth Thousand.
Handsomely bound in cloth, gilt edges, 6s. 6d. Cheap Edition, cloth, 3s. 6d.
In boards, 2s. 6d.

JENNINGS. Mr Gladstone : A Study. By Louis J. Jennings,

M.P., Author of ' Republican Government in the United States,' 'The Croaker
Memoirs,' &c. Popular Edition. Crown 8vo, is.

Birmingham. Reminiscences of an Attache*. By Hubert

E. H. Birmingham. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Diane de Breteuille. A Love Story. Crown 8vo, 2S. 6d.

JOHNSTON. The Chemistry of Common Life. By Professor

J. F. W. Johnston. New Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. By
Arthur Herbert Church, M.A. Oxon. ; Author of 'Food: its Sources,
Constituents, and Uses; ' 'The Laboratory Guide for Agricultural Students ; '
'Plain "Words about Water,' &c. Illustrated with Maps and 102 Engravings
on Wood. Complete in one volume, crown 8vo, pp. 618, 7s. 6d.

Elements of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. Fourteenth
Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. By Sir Charles A.
Cameron, M.D., F.R.C.S.I., &c. Cap. 8vo, 6s. 6d.

Catechism of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. An

entirely New Edition, revised and enlarged, by Sir Charles A. Cameron,
M.D., F.R.C.S.I. ,&c. Eighty-sixth Thousand, with numerous Illustrations, is.

JOHNSTON. Patrick Hamilton : a Tragedy of the Reformation
in Scotland, 1528. By T. P. Johnston. Crown 8vo, with Two Etchings by
the Author, 5s.

KENNEDY. Sport, Travel, and Adventures in Newfoundland
and the West Indies. By Captain W. R. Kennedy, Ren. With Illustrations
by the Author. Post 8vo, 14s.

KING. The Metamorphoses of Ovid. Translated in English Blank

Verse. By Henry King, M.A. , Fellow of Waltham College, Oxford, and of
the Inner Temple, Barrister-at-law. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d.

KINGLAKE. History of the Invasion of the Crimea. By A. W.

Kinglake. Cabinet Edition. Seven Volumes, illustrated with maps and

plans, crown 8vo, at 6s. each. The Volumes respectively contain : 

I. The Origin of the War between the Czar and the Sultan. II. Russia

Met and Invaded. III. The Battle of the Alma. IV. Sebastopol

at Bay. V. The Battle of Balaclava. VI. The Battle of Inkerman.

VII. Winter Troubles.

History of the Invasion of the Crimea. Vol. VI. Winter

Troubles. Demy 8vo, with a Map, 16s.

History of the Invasion of the Crimea. Vol. VII. From

the Morrow of Inkerman to the Fall of Canrobert. Demy 8vo, with Maps and
Plans, 14s.

History of the Invasion of the Crimea. Vol. VIII. From

the Opening of Palliser's Command to the Death of Lord Raglan. With an
Index to the Whole Work. With Maps and Plans. Demy 8vo, 14s.

Eothen. A New Edition, uniform with the Cabinet Edition

of the 'History of the Invasion of the Crimea,' price 6s.

Knolls. The Elements of Field Artillery. Designed for the

Use of Infantry and Cavalry Officers. By Henry Knolls, Captain Royal
Artillery; Author of 'From Sedan to Saarbriick,' Editor of 'Incidents in the
Sepoy War,' &c. With Engravings. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

LAING. Select Remains of the Ancient Popular and Romance

Poetry of Scotland. Originally Collected and Edited by David Laing, LL.D.
Re-edited, with Memorial Introduction, by John Small, M.A. With a Portrait
of Dr Laing. 4to, 25s.

Auvergne. The Rural Economy of England, Scotland, and Ireland.
By Leone de Auvergne. Translated from the French. With Notes
by a Scottish Farmer. 8vo, 12s.

LAWLESS. Hurried : a Study. By the Hon. Emily Lawless,

Author of 'A Chelsea Householder,' 'A Millionaire's Cousin.' Third
and cheaper Edition, crown 8vo. 6s.

LEE. A Phantom Lover : A Fantastic Story. By Vernon Lee.

Crown 8vo, is.

LEE. Glimpses in the Twilight. Being various Notes, Records,
and Examples of the Supernatural. By the Rev. George F. Lee, D.C.L.
Crown 8vo. 8s. 6d.

LEES. A Handbook of Sheriff Court Styles. By J. M. Lees,

M.A., LL.B., Advocate, Sheriff-substitute of Lancashire. New Ed., 8vo, 21s.

A Handbook of the Sheriff and Justice of Peace Small

Debt Courts. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

LETTERS FROM THE HIGHLANDS. Reprinted from 'The

Times.' Cap. 8vo, 4 s. 6d.

LIGHTFOOT. Studies in Philosophy. By the Rev. J. Lightfoot,

M A. D.Sc, Vicar of Cross Stone, Todinorden. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Linda. The Philosopher's Pendulum, and other Stories. By
Rudolph Linda. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

LITTLE. Madagascar: Its History and People. By the Rev

Henry W. Little, some years Missionary in East Madagascar. Post 8vo

LOCKHART. Doubles and Quits. By Laurence W. M. Lockhart.
With Twelve Illustrations. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Fair to See : a Novel. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Mine is Thine : a Novel. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

LORIMER. The Institutes of Law : A Treatise of the Principles

of Jurisprudence as determined by Nature. By James Lorimer, Regius
Professor of Public Law and of the Law of Nature and Nations in the University
of Edinburgh. New Edition, revised throughout, and much enlarged.

The' Institutes of the Law of Nations. A Treatise of the

Jural Relation of Separate Political Communities. In 2 vols. 8vo. Volume I.,
price 16s. Volume II., price dos.

M'COMBIE. Cattle and Cattle-Breeders. By William M'Combie,

Tillyfour. New Edition, enlarged, with Memoir of the Author. By James
Macdonald, Editor of the ' Live-Stock Journal.' Crown 8vo, 3 s. 6d.

MACRAE. A Handbook of Deer-stalking. By Alexander

Macrae, late Forester to Lord Henry Bentinck. With Introduction by
Horatio Ross, Esq. Cap. 8vo, with two Photographs from Life. 3s. 6d.

M'CRIE. Works of the Rev. Thomas M'Crie, D.D. Uniform Edition.
Four vols, crown 8vo, 24s.

Life of John Knox. Containing Illustrations of the History
of the Reformation in Scotland. Crown 8vo, 6s. Another Edition, 3s. 6d.

 Life of Andrew Melville. Containing Illustrations of the

Ecclesiastical and Literary History of Scotland in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth
Centuries. Crown 8vo, 6s.

History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation
in Italy in the Sixteenth Century. Crown 8vo, 4s.

1 History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation
in Spain in the Sixteenth Century. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.
Lectures on the Book of Esther. Cap. 8vo, 5s.

MACDONALD. A Manual of the Criminal Law (Scotland) Procedure
Act, 1887. By Norman Dokan Macdonald. Revised by the Lord
Advocate. 8vo, cloth. 10s. 6d.

Macintosh. The Book of the Garden. By Charles Macintosh,

formerly Curator of the Royal Gardens of his Majesty the King of the Belgians,
and lately of those of his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, K.G., at Dalkeith Palace.
Two large vols, royal 8vo, embellished with 1350 Engravings. 4, 7s. 6d.

Vol. I. On the Formation of Gardens and Construction of Garden Edifices. 776
pages, and 1073 Engravings, 2, 10s.

Vol. II. Practical Gardening. 868 pages, and 279 Engravings, 1, 17s. 6d.

MACKAY. A Manual of Modern Geography ; Mathematical, Physical,
and Political. By the Rev. Alexander Mackay, LL.D., F.R.G.S. nth
Thousand, revised to the present time. Crown 8vo, pp. 688. 7s. 6d.

Elements of Modern Geography. 53d Thousand, revised

to the present time. Crown 8vo, pp. 300, 3s.

The Intermediate Geography. Intended as an Intermediate
Book between the Author's ' Outlines of Geography' and ' Elements of
Geography.' Twelfth Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, pp. 238, 2s.

Outlines of Modern Geography. 176th Thousand, revised
to the present time. imo pp. 118, is.

MACKAY. First Steps in Geography. seth Thousand. imo, pp.
56. Sewed, 4<1. ; cloth, 6d.

Elements of Physiography and Physical Geography.

With Express Reference to the Instructions recently issued by the Science and
Art Department. By the Rev. Alexander Mackay, LL.D., F.R.G.S. 30th
Thousand, revised. Crown 8vo, is. 6d.

Facts and Dates ; or, the Leading Events in Sacred and

Profane History, and the Principal Facts in the various Physical Sciences.
The Memory being aided throughout by a Simple and Natural Method. For
Schools and Private Reference. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

MACKAY. An Old Scots Brigade. Being the History of Mackay 's

Regiment, now incorporated with the Royal Scots. With an Appendix containing
many Original Documents connected with the History of the Regiment.
By John Mackay (late) of Herriesdale. Crown 8vo, 5s.
MACKAY. The Founders of the American Republic. A History

of Washington, Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, and Madison. With a Supplementary
Chapter on the Inherent Causes of the Ultimate Failure of American
Democracy. By Charles Mackay, LL.D. Post 8vo, 10s. 6d.
MACKELLAR. More Leaves from the Journal of a Life in the

Highlands, from 1862 to 1882. Translated into Gaelic by Mrs Mary Mackel-
lar. By command of Her Majesty the Queen. Crown 8vo, with Illustrations,
ios. 6d.

Mckenzie. Studies in Roman Law. With Comparative Views
of the Laws of France, England, and Scotland. By Lord Mckenzie, one of
the Judges of the Court of Session in Scotland. Sixth Edition, Edited by
John Kirkpatrick, Esq., M.A. Cantab.; Dr Fur. Heidelb. ; LL.B. Eden. ;
Advocate. 8vo, 12s.

MAIN. Three Hundred English Sonnets. Chosen and Edited by

David M. Main. Cap. 8vo, 6s.
MAIR. A Digest of Laws and Decisions, Ecclesiastical and Civil,

relating to the Constitution, Practice, and Affairs of the Church of Scotland
With Notes and Forms of Procedure. By the Rev. William Mair, D.D.,
Minister of the Parish of Carleton. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

MAITLAND. Para. By E. Fuller Maitland (E. F. M.) Cap.

8vo. 5s.

MANNERS. Notes of an Irish Tour in 1846. By Lord John

Manners, M.P., G.C.B. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

MANNERS. Gems of German Poetry. Translated by Lady John

Manners. Small quarto, 3s. 6d.

Impressions of Bad-Homburg. Comprising a Short Account
of the Women's Associations of Germany under the Red Cross. By
Lady John Manners. Crown 8vo, is. 6d.

Some Personal Recollections of the Later Years of the Earl

of Beaconsfield, K.G. Sixth Edition, 6d.

Employment of Women in the Public Service. 6d

Some of the Advantages of Easily Accessible Reading and

Recreation Rooms, and Free Libraries. With Remarks on Starting and
Maintaining Them. Second Edition, crown 8vo, is.

A Sequel to Rich Men's Dwellings, and other Occasional

Papers. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Encouraging Experiences of Reading and Recreation Rooms.

Aims of Guilds, Nottingham Social Guild, Existing Institutions, &c, &c.
Crown 8vo, is.

MARMORNE. The Story is told by Adolphus Serve, the

youngest of three Brothers. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

MARSHALL. French Home Life. By Frederic Marshall.

Second Edition. 5s.
Marshal. History of India. From the Earliest Period to the
Close of the India Company's Government ; with an Epitome of Subsequent
Events. By John Clark Marshal, C.S.I. Abridged from the Author's
larger work. Second Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, with Map, 6s. 6d.

MARTIN. Goethe's Faust. Part I. Translated by Sir Theodore

Martin, K.C.B. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 6s. Ninth Edition, cap.

Goethe's Faust. Part II. Translated into English Verse.

Second Edition, revised. Cap. 8vo, 6s.

The Works of Horace. Translated into English Verse,

with Life and Notes. In 2 vols, crown 8vo, printed on hand-made
paper, 21s. .

Poems and Ballads of Heinrich Heine. Done into English
Verse. Second Edition. Printed on papier verge, crown 8vo, 8s.

Catullus. With Life and Notes. Second Ed., post 8vo, 7s. 6d.

The Vita Nova of Dante. With an Introduction and

Notes. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 5s.

Aladdin : A Dramatic Poem. By Adam Oehlenschlae-

ger. Cap. 8vo, 5s.

Correggio : A Tragedy. By Oehlenschlaeger. With

Notes. Cap. 8vo, 3s.

King Rene's Daughter : A Danish Lyrical Drama. By

Henrik Hertz. Second Edition, cap., 2s. 6d.

MARTIN. On some of Shakespeare's Female Characters. In a

Series of Letters. By Helena Faucit, Lady Martin. Dedicated by permission
to Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen. New Edition. Royal 8vo,
with Portrait. 9s.

Matson. Can the Old Faith Live with the New? or the

Problem of Evolution and Revelation. By the Rev. George Matson, D.D.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

The Psalmist and the Scientist ; or, Modern Value of the

Religious Sentiment. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

MEIKLEJOHN. An Old Educational Reformer Dr Bell. By

J. M. D. Meiklejohn, M.A., Professor of the Theory, History, and Practice
of Education in the University of St Andrews. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

 The Golden Primer. With Coloured Illustrations by Walter
Crane. Small 4.to, boards, 5s.

The English Language : Its Grammar, History, and Literature.
With Chapters on Versification, Paraphrasing, and Punctuation.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

MICHEL. A Critical Inquiry into the Scottish Language. With

the view of Illustrating the Rise and Progress of Civilisation in Scotland. By
Francisqtje-Michel, F.S.A. Lord. and Scot., Correspondant de institut de
France, &c. In One handsome Quarto Volume, printed on hand-made paper,
and appropriately bound in Roxburgh style. Price cs.

MICHIE. The Larch : Being a Practical Treatise on its Culture

and General Management. By Christopher Y. Michel, Forester, Sullen House.
Crown 8vo, with Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition, enlarged, 5s.

MILNE. The Problem of the Churchless and Poor in our Large

Towns. With special reference to the Home Mission Work of the Church
of Scotland. By the Rev. Root. Milne, M. A., D.D. , Archer. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Into. A Manual of English Prose Literature, Biographical

and Critical : designed mainly to show Characteristics of Style. By W. Into,
M.A., Professor of Logic in the University of Aberdeen. Third Edition,
revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Characteristics of English Poets, from Chaucer to Shirley.

New Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

The Crack of Doom. 3 vols, post 8vo, 25s. 6d.

MITCHELL. Biographies of Eminent Soldiers of the last Four

Centuries. By Major-general John Mitchell, Author of 'Life of Wallenstein.'
With a Memoir of the Author. 8vo, 9s.

Mair. Life of Manse Watch, Tailor in Dalkeith. With 8

Illustrations on Steel, by the late George Cruikshank. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.
Another Edition, cap. 8vo, is. 6d.

Homeric. Defects of Modern Christianity, and other Sermons.

By the Rev. A. W. Moderne, M.A., D.Sc. Professor of Logic and Metaphysics
in King's College, London. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 5s.

The Basis of Religion. Being an Examination of Natural

Religion. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

The Origin of Evil, and other Sermons. Fourth Edition,

enlarged. Crown Svo, 5s.

Personality. The Beginning and End of Metaphysics, and

a Necessary Assumption in all Positive Philosophy. Third Edition. Crown
8vo, 3 s.

Agnosticism. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Preaching and Hearing : and Other Sermons. Crown

8vo, 4s. 6d.

- Belief in God. Crown 8vo, 3s.

MONTAGUE. Campaigning in South Africa. Reminiscences of

an Officer in 1879. By Captain W. E. Montague, 94th Regiment, Author of
1 Claude Meadowleigh,' &c. 8vo, 10s. 6d.

MONTALEMBERT. Memoir of Count de Montalembert. A

Chapter of Recent French History. By Mrs Oliphant, Author of the 'Life
of Edward Irving,' &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo, 1, 4s.

MURDOCH. Manual of the Law of Insolvency and Bankruptcy :

Comprehending a Summary of the Law of Insolvency, Notour Bankruptcy,
Composition - contracts, Trust-deeds, Cession, and Sequestrations; and the
Winding-up of Joint-stock Companies in Scotland ; with Annotations on the
various Insolvency and Bankruptcy Statutes ; and with Forms of Procedure
applicable to these Subjects. By James Murdoch, Member of the Faculty of
Procurators in Glasgow. Fifth Edition, Revised and Enlarged, 8vo, 1, 10s.

MY TRIVIAL LIFE AND MISFORTUNE : A Gossip with

no Plot in Particular. By A Plain Woman. New Edition, crown 8vo, 6s.
By the Same Author.
POOR NELLIE. 3 vols, post 8vo, 25s. 6d.

Leaves. Songs and Verses, Social and Scientific. By an Old

Contributor to 'Mama.' By the Hon. Lord Leaves. Fifth Ed., cap. 8vo, 4s.

The Greek Anthology. Being Vol. XX. of 'Ancient Classics
for English Readers.' Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

NICHOLSON. A Manual of Zoology, for the Use of Students.

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Zoology. By Henry allen
Nicholson, M.D., D.Sc, F.L.S., F.G.S., Regius Professor of Natural
History in the University of Aberdeen. Seventh Edition, rewritten and
enlarged. Post 8vo, pp. 956, with 555 Engravings on Wood, 18s.

Text-book of Zoology, for the Use of Schools. Fourth Edition,
enlarged. Crown 8vo, with 188 Engravings on Wood, 7s. 6d.

Introductory Text-book of Zoology, for the Use of Junior

Classes. Sixth Edition, revised and enlarged, with 166 Engravings, 3s.

Outlines of Natural History, for Beginners ; being Descriptions
of a Progressive Series of Zoological Types. Third Edition, with
Engravings, is. 6d.

A Manual of Palaeontology, for the Use of Students.

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Palaeontology. Second
Edition. Revised and greatly enlarged. 2 vols. 8vo, with 722 Engravings,

2. 2S.

The Ancient Life-History of the Earth. An Outline of

the Principles and Leading Facts of Palseontological Science. Crown 8vo,
with 276 Engravings, 10s. 6d.

On the " Tabulate Corals " of the Palaeozoic Period,

with Critical Descriptions of Illustrative Species. Illustrated with 15
Lithograph Plates and numerous Engravings. Super-royal 8vo, 21s.

NICHOLSON. On the Structure and Affinities of the Genus 

and its Sub-Genera, with Critical Descriptions of Illustrative
Species. By Henry Allen Nicholson, M.D., D.Sc, F.L.S., F.G.S.,
Regius Professor of Natural History in the University of Aberdeen. Illustrated
with numerous Engravings on wood and lithographed Plates. Super-royal
8vo, 18s.

Synopsis of the Classification of the Animal Kingdom.
8vo, with 106 Illustrations, 6s.

NICHOLSON. Communion with Heaven, and other Sermons.
By the late Maxwell Nicholson, D.D., Minister of St Stephen's, Edinburgh.
Crown 8vo, 5s. 6d.

Rest in Jesus. Sixth Edition. Cap. 8vo, 4s. 6d.

OLIPHANT. Masollani: a Problem of the Period. A Novel.

By Laurence Oliphant. 3 vols, post 8vo, 25s. 6d.

Altera Peto. Eighth Edition, Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Piccadilly : A Fragment of Contemporary Biography. With

Eight Illustrations by Richard Doyle. Eighth Edition, 4s. 6d. Cheap Edition,
in paper cover, 2s. 6d.

Traits and Travesties; Social and Political. Posts, ios.6d.

The Land of Gilead. With Excursions in the Lebanon.

With Illustrations and Maps. Demy 8vo, 21s.

The Land of Khemi. Post 8vo, with Illustrations, 10s. 6d.

Haifa : Life in Modern Palestine. 2d Edition. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Episodes in a Life of Adventure ; or, Moss from a Rolling

Stone. Fourth Edition. Post 8vo, 6s.

Fashionable Philosophy, and other Sketches. In paper

cover, is.

Sympneumata : or, Evolutionary Functions now Active in

Man. Edited by Laurence Oliphant. Post 8vo, 10s. 6d.

OLIPHANT. The Story of Valentine ; and his Brother. By Mrs

Oliphant. 5s., cloth.

Katie Stewart. 2s. 6d.

A House Divided against Itself. 3 vols, post 8vo, 25s. 6d.

OSBORN. Narratives of Voyage and Adventure. By Admiral

Shepard Osborn, C.B. 3 vols, crown 8vo, 12s.

OSSIAN. The Poems of Ossian in the Original Gaelic. With a

Literal Translation into English, and a Dissertation on the Authenticity of the
Poems. By the Rev. Archibald Clerk. 2 vols, imperial 8vo, x, us. 6d.

OSWALD. By Fell and Fjord ; or, Scenes and Studies in Iceland.

By E. J. Oswald. Post 8vo, with Illustrations. 7s. 6d.

OUR OWN POMPEII. A Romance of To-morrow. 2 vols, crown

8vo, 17s.

Outran. Lyrics : Legal and Miscellaneous. By the late George

Outran, Esq., Advocate. New Edition, with Explanatory Notes. Edited
by J. H. Stoddart, LL.D. ; and Illustrated by William Ralston and A. S.
Boyd. Cap. 8vo, 5s.

PAGE. Introductory Text-book of Geology. By David Page,

LL.D., Professor of Geology in the Durham University of Physical Science,
Newcastle. With Engravings on Wood and Glossarial Index. Twelfth
Edition. Revised by Professor Lapworth of Mason Science College, Birmingham.
[j n the press.

Advanced Text-book of Geology, Descriptive and Industrial.
With Engravings, and Glossary of Scientific Terms. Sixth Edition, revised
and enlarged, 7s. 6d.

Introductory Text-book of Physical Geography. With

Sketch-Maps and Illustrations. Edited Charles Lapworth, LL.D., F.G.S.,
&c, Professor of Geology and Mineralogy in the Mason Science College, Birmingham.
12th Edition. 2s. 6d.

PAGE. Advanced Text-book of Physical Geography. Third

Edition, Revised and Enlarged by Prof. Lapworth. With Engravings. 5s.

PATON. Spindrift. By Sir J. Noel Paton. Cap., cloth, 5s.

Poems by a Painter. By Sir ; J. Noel Paton. Cap.,

cloth, 5s.

PATTERSON. Essays in History and Art. By R. Hogarth

Patterson. 8vo, 12s.

The New Golden Age, and Influence of the Precious

Metals upon the World. 2 vols. 8vo, 31s. 6d.

PAUL. History of the Royal Company of Archers, the Queen's

Body-Guard for Scotland. By James Balfour Paul, Advocate of the Scottish
Bar. Crown 4to, with Portraits and other Illustrations. 2, 2s.

Pile. Lawn Tennis as a Game of Skill. With latest revised

Laws as played by the Best Clubs. By Captain S. C. F. Pile, B.S.C. Third
Edition, cap. cloth, is. 6d.

PETTIGREW. The Handy Book of Bees, and their Profitable

Management. By A. Pettigrew. Fourth Edition, Enlarged, with Engravings.
Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

PHILOSOPHICAL CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Companion Series to Ancient and Foreign Classics for English Readers.
Edited by William Knight, LL.D., Professor of Moral Philosophy, University
of St Andrews. In crown 8vo volumes, with portraits, price 3s. 6d.

[For list of Volumes published, see page 2.

Pollock. The Course of Time : A Poem. By Robert Pollock,

A.M. Small cap. 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. The Cottage Edition, 32mo, sewed,
8d. The Same, cloth, gilt edges, is. 6d. Another Edition, with Illustrations
by Birket Foster and others, cap., gilt cloth, 3s. 6d., or with edges gilt, 4s.

PORT ROYAL LOGIC. Translated from the French  with Introduction,

Notes, and Appendix. By Thomas Spencer Barnes, LL.D., Professor
in the University of St Andrews. Eighth Edition, imo, 4s.

POTTS and Darnel. Aditus Facilities : An easy Latin Construing
Book, with Complete Vocabulary. By A. W. Potts, M.A., LL.D.,
Head-Master of the Fetters College, Edinburgh, and sometime Fellow of St
John's College, Cambridge; and the Rev. C. Darrell, M.A., Head-Master of
Cargilfield Preparatory School, Edinburgh, and late Scholar of Pembroke and
Downing Colleges, Cambridge. Ninth Edition, cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Aditus Facilities Graeca. An easy Greek Construing Book,

with Complete Vocabulary. Fourth Edition, cap. 8vo, 3s.

Prince. The Live-Stock of the Farm. By Robert 0. Prince.

Third Edition. Revised and Edited by James Macdonald, Editor of the
'Live-Stock Journal,' &c. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND

from 1707 to 1847, with Chronological Table and Index. 3 vols, large 8vo, 2, 3s.

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND,

COLLECTION OF. Published Annually with General Index.

RAMSAY. Rough Recollections of Military Service and Society.

By Lieut-Col. Balcarres D. Wardle Ramsay. Two vols, post 8vo, 21s.

RAMSAY. Scotland and Scotsmen in the Eighteenth Century.

Edited from the MSS. of John Ramsay, Esq. of Ochtertyre, by Alexander
Allardyce, Author of 'Memoir of Admiral Lord Keith, K.B.,' &c. In two
vols. 8vo. [In the press.

RANKINE. A Treatise on the Rights and Burdens incident to

the Ownership of Lands and other Heritages in Scotland. By John Rankine
M. A., Advocate. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 8vo. 45s.

RECORDS OF THE TERCENTENARY FESTIVAL OF THE

UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH. . Celebrated in April 1884. Published
under the Sanction of the Senatus Academics. Large 4to, 2, 12s. 6d.
RICE. Reminiscences of Abraham Lincoln. By Distinguished
Men of his Time. Collected and Edited by Allen Thorndike Rice, Editor
of the 'North American Review.' Large 8vo, with Portraits, 21s.

Simmer. The Early Homes of Prince Albert. By Alfbep
Rummer, Author of 'Our Old Country Towns,' &c. Beautifully Illustrated
with Tinted Plates and numerous Engravings on Wood. 8vo, 108. 6d.

Et (Person. Orellana, and other Poems. By J. Logie Robertson,
M. A. Cap. 8vo. Printed on hand-made paper. 6s.

The White Angel of the Polly Ann, and other Stories.

A Book of Fables and Fancies. Cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Our Holiday Among the Hills. By James and Janet

Logie Robertson. Cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

ROSCOE. Rambles with a Fishing-rod. By E. S. Roscoe. Crown

Svo, 4s. 6d.

ROSS. Old Scottish Regimental Colours. By Andrew Ross,

S.S.C., Hon. Secretary Old Scottish Regimental Colours Committee. Dedicated
by Special Permission to Her Majesty the Queen. Folio, handsomely
bound in cloth, 2, 12s. 6d.

Grossly. Love that Lasts for Ever. A Jubilee Lyric. By the

Earl of Grossly. Dedicated by Permission to the Queen, on the Fiftieth
Anniversary of her Accession, and published by Her Majesty's Command.
Printed on hand-made paper, with vellum cover, is.

RUSSELL. The Hangs of Bemersyde. A Family History. By

John Russell. Large 8vo, with Illustrations. 21s.

RUSTOW. The War for the Rhine Frontier, 1870 : Its Political

and Military History. By Col. W. Rusxow. Translated from the German,
by John Lapland Needham, Lieutenant Rem. Artillery. 3 vols. 8vo, with
Maps and Plans, 1, us. 6d.

ST LEGER. Under a Delusion. A Novel. By Joan St Leger.

2 vols, crown 8vo, 17s.

SCHILLER, Wallenstein. A Dramatic Poem. By Frederick

von Schiller. Translated bv C. G. A. Lockhart. Cap. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

SCOTCH LOCH FISHING.' By "Black Palmer." Crown 8vo,

interleaved with blank pages, 4s.

SCOTTISH METAPHYSICS. Reconstructed in accordance with

the Principles of Physical Science. By the Writer of ' Free Notes on Herbert
Spencer's First Principles.' Crown 8vo, 5s.

SELLER and STEPHENS. Physiology at the Farm ; in Aid of

Rearing and Feeding the Live Stock. By William Seller, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, formerly Lecturer on
Materia Medica and Dietetics ; and Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E., Author of ' The
Book of the Farm,' &c. Post 8vo, with Engravings, 16s.

SETH. Scottish Philosophy. A Comparison of the Scottish and

German Answers to Hume. Balfour Philosophical Lectures, University of
Edinburgh. By Andrew Seth, M.A., Professor of Logic, Rhetoric, and
Metaphysics in the University of St Andrews. Crown Svo, 5s.

Hegelianism and Personality. Balfour Philosophical Lectures.
Second Series. Crown 8vo, 5s.

SETON. A Budget of Anecdotes. Chiefly relating to the Current
Century. Compiled and Arranged by George Seton, Advocate, M.A. Oxon.
New and Cheaper Edition, cap. 8vo. Boards, is. 6d.

SHADWELL. The Life of Colin Campbell, Lord Clyde. Illustrated

by Extracts from his Diary and Correspondence. By Lieutenant-general
Shadwell, C.B. 2 vols. Svo. With Portrait, Maps, and Plans. 36s.

Hand. Fortune's Wheel. By Alex. Innes Hand, Author of

'Against Time,' &c. 3 vols, post 8vo, 25s. 6d.

Half a Century ; or, Changes in Men and Manners. Second

Edition, Svo, 12s. 6d.

Letters from the West of Ireland. Reprinted from the

'Times.' Crown 8vo, 58.

SHARPE. Letters from and to Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe.

Edited by Alexander Allardyce, Author of 'Memoir of Admiral Lord
Keith, K.B.,' &c. With a Memoir by the Rev. W. K. R. Bedford. In two
vols. 8vo. Illustrated with Etchings and other Engravings.

SIM. Margaret Sin's Cookery. With an Introduction by L. B.
W vi port, Author of  Mr Smith : A Part of His Life,' &c. Crown 8vo, 5s.

SIMPSON. Dogs of other Days: Nelson and Puck. By Eve

Blantyre Simpson. Cap. 8vo, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

SKELTON. Maitland of Lexington ; and the Scotland of Mary
Stuart. A History. By John Skelton, C.B., LL.D. Author of ' The Essays
of Shirley.' Demy Svo, 12s. 6d.

SMITH. Italian Irrigation : A Report on the Agricultural Canals
of Piedmont and Lombardy, addressed to the Hon. the Directors of the East
India Company ; with an Appendix, containing a Sketch of the Irrigation System
of Northern and Central India. By Lieut-col. R. Baird Smith, F.G.S.,
Bengal Engineers. Second Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, with Atlas, sos.

SMITH. Thorndale ; or, The Conflict of Opinions. By William

Smith, Author of 'A Discourse on Ethics,' &c. A New Edition. Crown
8vo, 10s. 6d.

Gravenhurst ; or, Thoughts on Good and Evil. Second

Edition, with Memoir of the Author. Crown 8vo, 8s.

SMITH. Greek Testament Lessons for Colleges, Schools, and

Private Students, consisting chiefly of the Sermon on the Mount and the
Parables of our Lord. With Notes and Essays. By the Rev. J. Hunter
Smith, M. A., King Edward's School, Birmingham. Crown 8vo, 6s.

SMITH. Writings by the Way. By John Campbell Smith,

M. A., Sheriff-substitute. Crown 8vo, 9s.

SMITH. The Secretary for Scotland. Being a Statement of the
Powers and Duties of the new Scottish Office. With a Short Historical
Introduction and numerous references to important Administrative Documents.
By W. C. Smith, LL.B., Advocate. 8vo, 6s.

SOLTERA. A Lady's Ride Across Spanish Honduras. By Maria

Softer. With illustrations. Post 8vo, 12s. 6d.

Morley. The Ethics of Naturalism. Being the Shaw Fellowship

Lectures, 1884. By W. R. Morley, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge,
and Examiner in Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh. Crown 8vo, 6s.

SPEEDY. Sport in the Highlands and Lowlands of Scotland with
Rod and Gun. By Tom Speedy. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged.
With Illustrations by Lieut-General Hope Crealocke, C.B., C.M.G., and
others. 8vo, 15s.

Sprout. The Worship and Offices of the Church of Scotland ;

or, the Celebration of Public Worship, the Administration of the Sacraments,
and other Divine Offices, according to the Order of the Church of Scotland.
Bv George W. Sprout, D.D., Minister of North Berwick. Crown 8vo, 6s.

STARFORTH. Villa Residences and Farm Architecture : A Series
of Designs. By John Starforth, Architect. 102 Engravings. Second Edition,
medium 4to, 2, 17s. 6d.

STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF SCOTLAND. Complete, with

Index, 15 vols. 8vo, 16, 16s.
Each County sold separately, with Title, Index, and Map, neatly bound m cloth,
forming a very valuable Manual to the Landowner, the Tenant, the Manufacturer,
the Naturalist, the Tourist, &c.

STEPHENS. The Book of the Farm ; detailing the Labours of the

Farmer, Farm-Steward, Ploughman, Shepherd, Hedger, Farm-Labourer, Field-worker,
and Cattleman. By Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E. Illustrated with
Portraits of Animals painted from the life ; and with 557 Engravings on Wood,
representing the principal Field Operations, Implements, and Animals treated of
in the Work. A New Edition, Rewritten, and with New Illustrations.

The Book of Farm Buildings ; their Arrangement and

Construction. By Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E., Author of 'The Book of the
Farm ; ' and Robert Scott Burn. Illustrated with 1045 Plates and Engravings.
Large 8vo, uniform with ' The Book of the Farm,' &c. ,1, us. 6d.

The Book of Farm Implements and Machines. By J.

Slight and R. Scott Burn, Engineers. Edited by Henry Stephens. Large
8vo, uniform with ' The Book of the Farm,' 2, 2s.

STEPHENS. Catechism of Practical Agriculture. With Engravings.
IS.
STEVENSON. British Fungi. (Hymenomycetes.) By Rev. John

Stevenson, Author of ' Mycologia Scotia,' Hon. Sec. Cryptogamic Society of
Scotland. 2 vols, post 8vo, with Illustrations, price 12s. 6d. each.

Vol. I. AOARICUS  BOLBITIUS. Vol. II. Ordinaries  DACRYMYCES.

STEWART. Advice to Purchasers of Horses. By John Stewart,

Vas., Author of ' Stable Economy.' New Edition. 2s. 6d.

Stable Economy. A Treatise on the Management of

Horses in relation to Stabling, Grooming, Feeding, Watering, and Working.
By John Stewart, Vas. Seventh Edition, cap. 8vo, 6s. 6d.

STORMONTH. Etymological and Pronouncing Dictionary of the

English Language. Including a very Copious Selection of Scientific Terms.
For Use in Schools and Colleges, and as a Book of General Reference. By the
Rev. James Stormonth. The Pronunciation carefully Revised by the Rev.
P. H. Help, M.A. Cantab. Ninth Edition, Revised throughout. Crown
8vo, pp. 800. 7s. 6d.

Dictionary of the English Language, Pronouncing,

Etymological, and Explanatory. Revised by the Rev. P. H. Help. Library
Edition. Imperial 8vo, handsomely bound in half morocco, 31s. 6d.

The School Etymological Dictionary and Word-Book.

Combining the advantages of an ordinary pronouncing School Dictionary
and an Etymological Spelling-book. Cap. 8vo, pp. 254. 2s.

STORY. Nero ; A Historical Play. By W. W. Story, Author of

'Robe di Roma.' Cap. 8vo, 6s.

Vallombrosa. Post 8vo, 5s.

He and She ; or, A Poet's Portfolio. Cap. 8vo, in parchment,
3s. 6d.

 Poems. 2 vols, cap., 7s. 6d.

Damietta. A Summer Idol. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

STRICKLAND. Life of Agnes Strickland. By her Sister.

Post svo, with Portrait engraved on Steel, 12s. 6d.

Surges. John - a - Dreams. A Tale. By Julian Surges.

New Edition, crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Little Comedies, Old and New. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

SUTHERLAND. Handbook of Hardy Herbaceous and Alpine

Flowers, for general Garden Decoration. Containing Descriptions, in Plain
Language, of upwards of 1000 Species of Ornamental Hardy Perennial and
Alpine Plants, adapted to all classes of Flower-gardens, Clockwork, and
Waters ; along with Concise and Plain Instructions for their Propagation and
Culture. By William Sutherland, Gardener to the Earl of Into ; formerly
Manager of the Herbaceous Department at Kew. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

TAYLOR. The Story of My Life. By the late Colonel Meadows

Taylor, Author of 'The Confessions of a Thug,' &c. &c. Edited by his
Daughter. New and cheaper Edition, being the Fourth. Crown 8vo, 6s.

TAYLOR. The City of Barras. By U. Ashworth Taylor.

Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

TEMPLE. Lancelot Ward, M.P. A Love-story. By George

Temple. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

THOLUCK. Hours of Christian Devotion. Translated from the

German of A. Tholuck, D.D., Professor of Theology in the University of Halle.
By the Rev. Robert Menzies, D. D. With a Preface written for this Translation
by the Author. Second Edition, crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

THOMSON. Handy Book of the Flower-garden : being Practical

Directions for the Propagation, Culture, and Arrangement of Plants in Flower-gardens
all the year round. Embracing all classes of Gardens, from the largest
to the smallest. With Engraved Plans, illustrative of the various systems of
Grouping in Beds and Borders. By David Thomson, Gardener to his Grace
the Duke of Buccleuch, K.G., at Drumlanrig. Fourth and Cheaper Edition,
crown 8vo, 5s.

THOMSON. The Handy Book of Fruit Culture under Glass :

being a series of Elaborate Practical Treatises on the Cultivation and Forcing
of Pines, Vines, Peaches, Figs, Melons, Strawberries, and Cucumbers. With
Engravings of Hothouses, &c, most suitable for the Cultivation and Forcing
of these Fruits. By David Thomson, Gardener to his Grace the Duke of
Buccleuch, Eg., at Drumlanrig. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, with Engravings,
7s. 6d.

THOMSON. A Practical Treatise on the Cultivation of the Grapevine.
By William Thomson, Tweed Vineyards. Ninth Edition, 8vo, 5s.

THOMSON. Cookery for the Sick and Convalescent. With

Directions for the Preparation of Poultices, Fomentations, &c. By Barbara
Thomson. Cap. 8vo, is. 6d.

TOM Cringe's LOG. A New Edition, with Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 5s. Cheap Edition, 2s.

TRANSACTIONS OF THE HIGHLAND AND Agricultural
SOCIETY OF SCOTLAND. Published annually, price 5s.

Bullock. Rational Theology and Christian Philosophy in England
in the Seventeenth Century. By John Bullock, D.D., Principal of St
Mary's College in the University of St Andrews ; and one of her Majesty's
Chaplains in Ordinary in Scotland. Second Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, 16s.

Modern Theories in Philosophy and Religion. 8vo, 15s.

Theism. The Witness of Reason and Nature to an All-wise
and Beneficent Creator. 8vo, 10s. 6d.

Luther, and other Leaders of the Reformation. Third

Edition, enlarged. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

TWO STORIES OF THE SEEN AND THE UNSEEN. 'The

Open Door,' ' Old Lady Mary.' Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

Veitch. Institutes of Logic. By John Veitch, LL.D., Professor
of Logic and Rhetoric in the University of Glasgow. Post 8vo, 12s. 6d.

The Feeling for Nature in Scottish Poetry. From the

Earliest Times to the Present Day. 2 vols. cap. 8vo, in Roxburgh binding.
15s.

VIRGIL. The aeneid of Virgil. Translated in English Blank

Verse by G. K. Rickards, M.A., and Lord Ravenswood. 2 vols. cap. 8vo,
10s.

WALFORD. The Novels of L. B. Walford. New and Uniform

Edition. Crown 8vo, each 5s.
Mr Smith : A Part of his Life.

Cousins.
Pauline.

Troublesome Daughters.

Dick Nether.

The Baby's Grandmother.

History of a Week.

WARDEN. Poems. By Francis Heywood Warden. With a

Notice by Dr Vanroth. Crown 8vo, ss.

WARREN'S (SAMUEL) WORKS. People's Edition, 4 vols, crown

8vo, cloth, 15s. 6d. Or separately : 
Diary of a Late Physician. Cloth, 2s. 6d. ; boards, 2s.
Ten Thousand A-year. Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; boards, 2s. 6d.
Now and Then. The Lily and the Bee. Intellectual and Moral

Development of the Present Age. 4s. 6d.
Essays : Critical, Imaginative, and Juridical. 5 s *
WARREN. The Five Books of the Psalms. With Marginal

Notes. By Rev. Samuel L. Warren, Rector of Fisher, Surrey ; late Fellow,
Dean, and Divinity Lecturer, Waltham College, Oxford. Crown 8vo, 5s.

WATSON. Christ's Authority ; and other Sermons. By the late
Archibald Watson, D.D., Minister of the Parish of Dundee, and one of
Her Majesty's Chaplains for Scotland. With Introduction by the Very
Rev. Principal Caird, Glasgow. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

WEBSTER. The Angler and the Loop-Rod. By David Webster.

Crown 8vo, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

WELLINGTON. Wellington Prize Essays on "the System of Field

Manoeuvres best adapted for enabling our Troops to meet a Continental Army."
Edited by Lieut-General Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, K.G.B. 8vo, 12s. 6d.

WESTMINSTER ASSEMBLY. Minutes of the Westminster Assembly,
while engaged in preparing their Directory for Church Government,
Confession of Faith, and Catechisms (November 1644 to March 1649). Edited
by the Rev. Professor Alex. T. Mitchell, of St Andrews, and the Rev. John
Struthers, LL.D. With a Historical and Critical Introduction by Professor
Mitchell. 8vo, 15s.

WHITE. The Eighteen Christian Centuries. By the Rev. James

White. Seventh Edition, posts, with Index, 6s.

History of France, from the Earliest Times. Sixth Thousand,
post 8vo, with Index, 6s.

WHITE. Archaeological Sketches in Scotland  Kintyre and Knap-dale.
By Colonel T. P. White, Ree., of the Ordnance Survey. With numerous
Illustrations. 2 vols, folio, 4, 4s. Vol. I., Kintyre, sold separately,

2, 2S.

The Ordnance Survey of the United Kingdom. A Popular

Account. Crown 8vo, 5s.

WILLS and GREENE. Drawing-room Dramas for Children. By

W. G. Wills and the Hon. Mrs Greene. Crown 8vo, 6s.

WILSON. Works of Professor Wilson. Edited by his Son-in-law,

Professor Farrier. 12 vols, crown 8vo, 2, 8s.

Christopher in his Sporting-Jacket. 2 vols., 8s.

Isle of Palms, City of the Plague, and other Poems. 4s.

Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life, and other Tales. 4s.

Essays, Critical and Imaginative. 4 vols., 16s.

The Notes Ambrosial. 4 vols., 16s.

The Comedy of the Notes Ambrosial. By Christopher

North. Edited by John Skelton, Advocate. With a Portrait of Professor
Wilson and of the Ettrick Shepherd, engraved on Steel. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Homer and his Translators, and the Greek Drama. Crown

8vo, 4s.

WILSON. From Forti to Khartoum : A Journal of the Desert

March from Forti to Gubat, and of the Ascent of the Nile in General Gordon's
Steamers. By Colonel Sir Charles W. Wilson, K.C.B., K.C.M.G., Ree.
Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Innate. Annie Weir, and other Poems. By David Innate.

Cap. 8vo, 5s.

Lily Neil. A Poem. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

WORDSWORTH. The Historical Plays of Shakspeare. With

Introductions and Notes. By Charles Wordsworth, D.C.L., Bishop of S.
Andrews. 3 vols, post 8vo, each price 7s. 6d.

WORSLEY. Poems and Translations. By Philip Stanhope

Worsley, M.A. Edited by Edward Worsley. Second Edition, enlarged.
Cap. 8vo, 6s.

YATE. England and Russia Face to Face in Asia. A Record of

Travel with the Afghan Boundary Commission. By Lieutenant A. C. Yate,
Bombay Staff Corps, Special Correspondent of the 'Pioneer,' 'Daily Telegraph,'
&c, &c, with the Afghan Boundary Commission. 8vo, with Maps
and Illustrations, 21s.

YOUNG. Songs of Stranger done into English Verse. By William

Young. New Edition, revised. Cap. 8vo, 4s. 6d.
YULE. Fortification : for the Use of Officers in the Army, and
Readers of Military History. By Col. Yule, Bengal Engineers. 8vo, with
numerous Illustrations, 10s. 6d.

ZIT AND Noe : Their Early Experiences. Reprinted from

Blackwood's Magazine.' Crown 8vo, paper cover, is.
12/S7.

3 0112 049092189

i*Bsm!

 I I I  

WHWlWURifli

I mH OSMIUM

Vawl



SBBSBBBt"

.'

Hnnp

Ifs

BfliBfi

OROQbbk

Wm



OF THE
U N Diversity
OF Ill Noise

A NOVEL

BY

M A E Y L E S T E E

(MARIA. SOLTERA)

AUTHOR OF ' A LADY'S RIDE ACROSS SPANISH HONDURAS '

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXVIII

CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAP. PAGE

i. homme propose, 1

II. A HEARTY COUNTRY WELCOME, 24

III. THE SIMPLICITY OF TRUTH, . . . . 45

IV. PERCIVAL WAVERS, 64

V. SCIENCE AND CUPID, . 88

VI. A COUNTRY WEDDING, . . . . .109

VII. THE FAIR WOODS OF BARKHOLME, . . .130

VIII. AN AFTERNOON WITH A HARMONIUM, . .153

IX. THE ANGEL OF DEATH, . . . . .180

X. A FOE'S GIFT IS NO GIFT, AND BRINGS NO PROFIT, 204

XI. DOMESTIC ECONOMY, . 226

XII. IT IS THE UNEXPECTED THAT ALWAYS HAPPENS, 245

XIII. Bygone, . 274

CHAPTEE I.

Homme Propose.

How did you manage to get into this field ? " was
Mrs Fanshawe's first exclamation to her new visitor,
as Sikes, loudly protesting, and croaking like a bird-fiend,
scuttled away in the direction of his harem.
Miss Clavering  Mr La Touche ; I believe you have
not met before. You have really had a rough reception.
Did none of them warn you about the
gander ? "

The fault is entirely my own," the young lady
replied. " I espied some blossoms of the cuckoo-pint
flower close to the hedge on the other side, and so
stayed behind the rest to gather them. I found that
the flowers were farther off than I had thought, so I
went into the meadow itself, never, of course, expecting
any attack. As I stooped the creature rushed upon

VOL. II. A

me, inflicting a stab in my foot, and at the same time
tearing my dress very savagely. As he raised his
head to make a second onslaught, I seized him by
the neck, twisted him round, and made him march
on the extreme tip of his toes as you saw."

I wonder you managed to retain your grasp,"
said Mrs Fanshawe. " Sikes is a very powerful
bird."

It was hard on my hand and arm, I assure you,
and he very nearly wriggled away, but the sight of
you encouraged me to hold on. Thanks for your
aid," Miss Clavering added, turning to Stephen ;
like the Prussians at Waterloo, you helped materially
to secure the victory."

You caught your enemy at a disadvantage," said
Stephen, gallantly ignoring his own share in the
achievement. " Were you, may I ask, carrying out a
special code of tactics in gander training, or was the
method you employed with such signal success the
work of inspiration solely ? "

The work of inspiration solely, if you will put it
in that light," Miss Clavering answered with a gentle
laugh ; " the motive power within always prompts me
to grasp my nettle. There is nothing like facing a
difficulty at the outset ; promptitude is more than half
the battle."

I, for my part, am very much obliged to you,"
said Mrs Fanshawe,  " that is, if Sikes does not pick
himself up presently, and rush at the next comer with
renewed malignity."

"He seems pretty well cowed now," said Mr La
Touche, surveying that part of the field whereon the
gander lay sprawling, and evidently quite exhausted,
for the time being at any rate. Meanwhile the
females of Sikes's flock gabbled and wobbled, and
revelled and exulted at the prostrate condition of
their tyrant: it was an ungracious thought, but
Stephen could not help likening the geese to a party
of women over the reputation of a fallen sister. Here,
however, the victim was masculine, and so the parallel
was not exact. In the like situation, as affecting
human beings, those who rejoice in the downfall of
the man who is erring are certainly geese  though, asa
matter of fact, he rarely obtains unqualified feminine
reprobation.

Wisely keeping his thoughts to himself, Stephen
turned to the younger lady with the remark, " I
think you have acted like Early the horse-tamer : in
future, there will be no more trouble with Master
Sikes."

Sikes ! what a name for a gander ; " and thereupon
Miss Clavering was supplied with all information
respecting the antecedents of this bird, together with
the reasons why the Fanshawe family had put up with
him so patiently. " I believe the rector is quite proud
of him," said Mrs Fanshawe in continuation, " so we
must hope that his spirit is subdued but not utterly
quenched."

The reputation he has by all accounts acquired will
stand in good stead," said Miss Clavering; "still, I

should be sorry to put Mr Fanshawe out of conceit
with his friend. I have been quite close enough to
him to discover that Sikes is a magnificent specimen
of his kind."

Here the sweet jocund laughter of early youth
broke on the air,  the boyish shout, and the ripple of
young girls' voices, now rising, now falling, and anon
flooding the calm evening with spring's own melody, 
freshness and flowering life, ever changeful music, but
all its notes in tune.

They call, they whistle, and the sweet carillons of
united happy voices bring smiles of sympathy to
those whom these sounds are intended to summon.
Then some one among them looking through a hedge
espies the ramblers, and the lost Miss Clavering is
proclaimed to be safely walking with the Mater and
Touchy. " Now for it.  who is to ask first ? " says
Harold Fanshawe.

Not I,  it is your place ; no, no, you go on," say
the boys the one to the other : then at length a bold
spirit suggests, " Let Mary Leppell ask  she's more
grown up ; besides, she's a beauty."

So Mary is pushed to the front, stimulated by the
moral support of "brick," "trump," "duck," and "dear,"
which terms are liberally applied to that young lady
on all sides ; and it turns out, as she proclaims her
mission," that a game before high tea is in contemplation,
which game means a run down the terrace-walk
bank, and a trial as to who will reach the bottom
of that all but perpendicular declivity without fall or

foot-trip. It appears that majestic-looking Willina
Clavering, regarding whom some doubts had been expressed,
would enjoy the fun as much as the youngest
of them, and off they all go to test their prowess. Mrs
Fanshawe, meanwhile, is glad of the opportunity, and
improves it, to return to the house for the purpose of
seeing that a noble ham, roast-fowls, milk-puddings,
sweet fresh bread and cake, and good pure ale are all
to the fore, to be presently served by the handmaidens
in the noble old hall, which is used as a dining-room
when the party is large. It is all very country and
very simple, but Mr and Mrs Fanshawe are not of
those who entertain grandly for a month in the
year, and starve and pinch themselves and family
for the other eleven to make up for the one month's
feasting.

A part of the old Court had to be shut up for want
of means to maintain the large establishment which
the mansion in its entirety would demand, and Mr
Fanshawe had determined, like a wise man, that if he
was to reside in the house of his ancestors, he must
do so by cutting off every luxury, together with the
outward style in which these were wont to live.

Their friends," the rector had said to his wife and
children, " must accept the best they could give, and
if they did not like it, the other course was available,
and that was to go their ways and leave Pinnacles
Court behind them."

The game begins, and the player who can run up
and down three times faultlessly is adjudged to be

6 THE FAT OF THE LAND.

king or queen of the following day, and to order all
the sports and occupations, if it so please him, of
his playfellows for the space of twelve hours. A
recusant may get off by paying twopence to the parish
poor-box ; or the victor not taking his or her privileges,
which in this case are doubtful, contributes
threepence to the same laudable object.

The rules being settled and proclaimed, they begin,
but Stephen La Touche is requested to stand on the
lawn in the capacity of umpire, it being ascertained
that he is likely to achieve victory without trouble.

Francis Clavering of course insists upon giving his
hand to assist Miss Leppell, but he is repulsed by that
damsel and informed that his overtures are mean, and
that he had better mind his own running, for the performance
is not so easy as he seems to think. The
boys Fanshawe scream with exultation, as, after a
movement betwixt a skate and a scuttle, Mr Clavering
comes down a " whopper," sprawls on his back, and
obdurate. Two boys have flown like arrows from
summit to base, but having put on too much steam at
the outset, they arrive on the lawn head over heels,
and gasp, " Well I never ! there goes one to the bad,"
as they rise disgusted. Sweet little Chalice, who is
already established as " Touchy's " pet, walks carefully
sideways, for the grass is slippery as an eel or as glass :
she pauses, goes back again, tries zigzag, and finally
gives it up, calling to Stephen to come and take her,
for she is " deffel frighted." The two friends of Harold
both take to the sitting position and slide, using their

hands as oars ; but this device comes to nought, and
they are hooted back to the point from whence they
started.

Etta Fanshawe manages fairly well, but she does
not run quite straight, and betrays symptoms of a
clutch at the grass here and there to steady herself in
the descent ; still she passes muster. Now comes Miss
Clavering's turn : holding her body slightly backwards,
she swims rather than walks, and has arrived on the
lawn without change of poise in a single graceful and
firm movement. Evidently the young lady is acquainted
with the secret of descending an abrupt elevation ;
and as many of her sex fail most signally in performing
this feat, and generally look to the worst advantage
whenever they attempt it, a hint may as well be given
here as to the mode of progression which is necessary
to achieve success. It is this simply : keep the feet
well together, the one foot almost within the other,
and as close to the ground as possible ; walk in short
steps in the third position, the body being at the same
time a little thrown backwards ; above all, move in
regular time.

Miss Clavering finds it more difficult to ascend, but
she manages well, using this time a striding motion in
zigzag direction. Mary Leppell and Etta degenerate
into a scramble ; and Mr Clavering, trying " scientific
dodges," as the boys declare, is nowhere. Harold falls
prone on his face in one ascent, and it is popularly
opined that he will never do for the Alpine Club. So
they come and go, and this with remarks complimentary

or the reverse, and the peals of laughter, make a
joyous and innocent scene.

At last comes Stephen, and he performs his task
both up and down in accurate style. " He is best,
and Miss Clavering is next best," was the general
verdict, the rigour of the game not admitting of any
palliation on the score of sex. So the young people
assert to Stephen that he is king, and ask him what he
means to do with himself and with them.

"Place aux dames," replied that gentleman, explaining
at the same time that this was French for
ladies first ; " the honours of royalty belong to Miss
Clavering."

Then of course there was a pleasant little altercation
as to whom these honours did legally belong to.
Miss Clavering solved the difficulty.

They are yours, Mr La Touche, by all manner of
right," she said ; " is not your first name Stephen 
that noble Christian name which means a crown ? "

What a beautiful meaning ! " said Mary Leppell ;
"till now I have thought the name of Stephen  well,
not pretty; now I shall always like it,  Stephen, a
crown."

"You remember the first martyr who wore the
crown ? " said Willina. " I like the name,  it is associated
with so much that is noble. Stephen Langton
helped greatly to give us Magna Charta ; King Stephen
of Hungary was a crown of goodness ; and our own
King Stephen was renowned for manly beauty. St
Stephen also gives his name to many beautiful chapels

and gates all the world over ; I could multiply many
instances besides."

"Here is a Stephen, who, though unworthy to be
named with the majority of those whom you have mentioned,
still aspires to be your knight, Miss Clavering,"
said young La Touche, his handsome face lighted up
with a smile which only needed the fire of the " refiner's
gold " to be declared ethereal, for as yet the physical
beauty of all the family of La Touche was of the earth
earthy. " Let me be your knight, and I shall indeed
reckon myself no longer Stephen, but a crowned king
indeed ! "

Then Crown La Touche, come along," said Francis
Clavering ; " there's a warning bell, and we are hungry.
Come, my heavenly Moll," said he, as he handed
fair Mary towards the steps which led down from
the garden to a side entrance into the Court. It occurred
to Stephen that Mr Clavering emphasised " my
heavenly Moll," in a jealous misgiving that he might
claim the honours of Beauty for "Willina ; but he was
magnanimous enough to consider that it is but seldom
brothers can discern the attractions of their own
sisters, however expert they may be in this particular
with regard to the sisters of other people.

"You are prepared to pay that threepence to the
poor-box ? " called out Harold Fanshawe, who it appears
was responsible for the collection of the tribute.

I pay thankfully," said Stephen, handing the lad
a shilling "to get rid at once of the dangerous privilege
of regulating such a party as this, even for half an hour."

Here is my contribution," said Willina, as she presented
the like sum ; " now I think our consciences
are clear."

Well, girls are a blessing sometimes ! " exclaimed
the eldest hope of the Fanshawes ; " if it had not
been for you, we should only have got twopence out
of Mr La Touche, and not a fraction more. Yes or
no," continued the young gentleman, appealing to
Stephen.

However, Mr La Touche seemed disinclined to answer
this question, and Miss Clavering drew herself
up, the colour of her cheek at the same moment
rivalling the scarlet curve of her beautiful lips.
"Have I said too much, or gone too far," thought
she. The thought pained her, for upwards of twenty
years ago a Frenchman could not have written of
the English race that the female courts the male ;
it is owing to the "progress" at which the year of
grace eighteen hundred and eighty-eight has arrived,
that a popular author makes this assertion, and lays
it down as an axiom which neither admits of challenge
nor question.

Meanwhile the conscience of Master Fanshawe
smote him as having taken a liberty in speaking of
Miss Clavering as a girl ; the youth felt that she was
one of nature's queens, and on this conviction he got
himself out of the way with all convenient speed.

Then, after making a slight evening toilette, the
whole party flock into the old hall and stand in reverence
as the rector asks a blessing on the good gifts

bestowed upon them by the Father who caret for us
all. Now the hospitality and courtesy and all the
bright flowers of social intercourse burst forth in the
full tide of happiness, and a red-letter day is afterwards
chronicled in the modern records of Pinnacles
Court.

And Lillian, the unloved daughter of this house,
how fares she ? Do her thoughts wander, or even
willingly turn in speculation as to what may be
going on in a home which, in its usual course, is certainly
somewhat dull and uninteresting ? Does she
wonder if this infusion of new blood will widen her
mother's heart, or strengthen her father to show outwardly
those marks of regard which only in private
he ventures to display towards her ? Will the attention
which she feels sure will be paid by the
grown men, and even by the boys, to the girls of all
ages then at Pinnacles, modify the undefined yet
subtle jealousy with which Mrs Fanshawe ever
seemed to entertain any distinguishing marks of
attention shown to herself by strangers male or
female ?

Has she hope that any but Mary Leppell will feel
her absence, or wonder if she would like to be among
them ?

No, certainly no, must be answered to all these
queries. Mrs Fanshawe is thankful that Lillian is
out of the way, because her pretty second daughter
quite pales before the calm beauty and high-bred
manners of the elder born.

Etta is good - pretty, to coin a word ; but the
astute mother knows that this kind of attraction
requires much propinquity, and the stimulus of
money present or in prospect, to prompt the generality
of men to make an alliance with a family
wherein daughters abound, and where the strain of
making clerical sobriety march with the ways of
the world is felt in full force. In the present mould
of society, the daughters of the dignified clergy, at
least, should be well dowered.

Truth to say, also, Mr Fanshawe recognises freedom
in his elder daughter's absence, for his wife is invariably
sharper and more unkind to Lillian in the presence
of strangers than at any other time. The rector
feels that he cannot take part with the child without
coming to an open rupture with her mother ; and the
boys, following suit with their elders, are persistently
troublesome to their eldest sister, safe in the conviction
that no word of reproof will fall upon them for
their turpitude,  they were privileged, as it were, by
Mrs Fanshawe's habitual injustice towards their sister
Lillian. Lillian, on her part, is also well satisfied with
the present state of things. At Hunter's Lodge she
sees Francis Clavering with more satisfaction, probably,
than she would have done had they been living
beneath the same roof. He comes and goes easily
enough, for there are only eleven miles of train service
betwixt Yarnee and Pinnacles, and the young man is
naturally very anxious about Lady Asher on Mary's
account, and makes it his business to run over

to Blythe to inquire for the old lady pretty frequently.


The health of Lady Asher at this time neither advances
nor retrograde, and she may continue in this
state for months j Mr Clavering inwardly hopes that
she may, though he benevolently wishes the old lady
no harm. The present time is a helicon time for him,
and he makes good use of it, never heeding nor looking
to the future.

His cousin, Mr Glascott, also enjoys a walk to Hunter's
Lodge, and becomes wonderfully interested in the
young lady who so strikingly resembles what Mrs
Leppell was in her palmy days ; and he lavishes attentions
upon Miss Fanshawe which, in a younger
man, would have promptly led to the opinion that he
aspired to a nearer connection than that of a friend.

The presence of Miss Fanshawe also served to mitigate
any awkwardness which Mrs Leppell might probably
have felt had she been obliged to receive Mr
Glascott alone. Clara was not yet introduced, and nobody
belonging to Hunter's Lodge could be found for
drawing-room purposes when they were wanting; so
the visitor paved the way for the elderly gentleman to
drop in whenever he liked. Nothing loth, Mr Glascott
came in the morning hours, stayed to luncheon, played
with the babies, and fell, con ashore, into the privileged
attitude of old friend of the family,  the intervening
past being summarily bridged over by the magic
touch of the genius of oblivion.

Lady Asher was really unconsciously contributing

an active share to this pleasant state of things, and it
must be further allowed that the absence of the master
of the house was borne with fortitude. As there
was no reason to hurry home, Colonel Leppell had
concluded to prolong his stay in London, whereat the
adjutant of the Yarneshire Militia, who acted as
Ralph's locum tenens, was also well pleased.

Though the cares of a sick-room were the ostensible
reason of Miss Fanshawe's visit to Hunter's Lodge, it
more the help that Mrs Leppell obtained from the
young girl's forethought, and her general adaptation to
all departments of household management, that made
her presence so agreeable to her hostess, and thus left
time to the latter to avail herself of the opportunity
to take the rest which she so much needed. Adelaide,
no doubt, was nearly worn out ; she felt it a blessing to
have one near her who knew all her trials, and who,
without ever appearing to invite confidence, met it
half-way, and who, besides, possessed the rare tact oft

appearing to know the things which were not
supposed to be known,  and further, that were not
intended to be known.

Miss Fanshawe was supremely happy in the knowledge
that she was appreciated, and that she was allowed
to be of use : her coldness of manner relaxed,
ami she spoke the truth when she said that she was
always happy at Hunter's Lodge.

Francis Clavering now brought his science and laid
it at her feet ; and Mr Glascott was ever bestowing
those tender courtesies which men of his age and of

the old school were wont to render to youth and
beauty, because to them youth and beauty were sacred
things, and were ever accounted as pure in their
sight, unless the possessor betrayed the trust.

The modern worship of wealth and contempt for
simple competence, together with the yearning for the
vulgarities of soft living and glitter, is daily wrecking
this high chivalrous creed ; youth, alas ! has its market
price, and beauty sells itself openly at the highest
rate at the gates of Mammon. Legal prostitution bids
fair to become the vice of the age, and the world's
whole litany to lie in the axiom, " Gardez les convenances,
et puis, Dieu vous gardera." Miserere Domine.

Meanwhile the days passed by, and all went merrily
as the proverbial marriage - bell at Pinnacles Court.
The elder Fanshawes were satisfied with everything ;
the weather, too, was wonderfully fine for the time of
year  so much so, that an archery party was projected,
and it was with great difficulty that the rector had his
say concerning east wind and the varieties presented
by the English climate. The party were, however,
pressed to prolong their visit, much to the satisfaction
of Mr Stephen La Touche, who had discovered somehow
that his aunt's affairs required more of his supervision
than he had at first imagined.

Mrs Kemble, with the pertinacity which often characterises
persons similarly afflicted, became much attached
to the kindly handsome girl whom the house
of Fanshawe was then delighting to honour as Mary
Leppell's future sister. The poor lady felt that inconsequence

of the attention paid to her by Willina,
the inmates of Pinnacles no longer regarded her as a
dangerous person, but held her to be what she really
was,  a sweet nervous soul, tormented to frenzy often
by the stupidity of her own kind, and to whom human
sympathy, properly directed, must, like the touch of an
angel's wing, bring reason as well as healing by the
contact. Thus it fell out that, from having been on
the whole very miserable at Pinnacles, Mrs Kemble
became loth to leave it, because it had given her Stephen
back, and brought Willina Clavering to her heart.

Gladly then did she hail the news that her stay was
to be prolonged for a week at least ; these two dear
young people, she said, were to her strength and the
happiness of life.

This pleasant state of things was not, on the whole,
quite satisfactory to Mr Percival La Touche. The
prolonged absence of his brother seemed strange to
him, as he did not believe for a moment that the
alleviation of their aunt's condition could be the sole
motive for Stephen's visit to the county of Yarnee.
Both he and Marcia were totally unaware that Lillian
was at the time a guest at Hunter's Lodge ; and jumping
together at the same conclusion, they convinced
themselves that this young lady was in reality the
magnet which drew this particular loadstone from its
sphere, and that the time was come which required
some elucidation of the proceeding on their part.

A little contretemps also in the Brighton manage had
somewhat upset Percival's convictions with regard to

the " liberty " said to be enjoyed by those who look
upon marriage as a superfluous ceremony ; his head,
in lieu of his mouth, had become acquainted with the
contents of a soda-water bottle, and he had been at
the same time frankly informed, in the most literal
rendering of the English tongue, that he was lower
than the beasts, and that his future " habitat " would
be a fiery one.

A fear that his personal safety might be threatened,
or even endangered, was, to a moral coward like
Percival, a most serious apprehension, and in his terror
and excitement he poured all his woes, without reservation,
into Aunt Marcia's ear. A remedy by what she
was pleased to term a " safe marriage " was quickly
proposed by that lady, who, foreseeing the inevitable,
determined, if possible, to manage the inevitable in
her own way.

Why not marry Lillian Fanshawe ? " she asked, as
if impelled by a sudden inspiration ; " she has everything
but money, and you don't want that, happily.
You need not add to your expenses for a year or two ;
you could live here, for Laurence is going to pay
a round of visits, and then he'll be off to India. Besides,
if you do not want to be cut out by Stephen,
you must act promptly, my dear. Stephen admires
Miss Fanshawe, and down in the country he has
nothing else to do but stump about green lanes and
make love ! His letter of this morning is full of the
delightful time he is having; you had better go to
Pinnacles at once."

VOL. II. B

"But T can't present myself there without some
pretext for so doing," said Percival, ruefully ; " all Aunt
Arabella's affairs are now in Stephen's hands, confound
him ! "

You can invent some business matter to account
for your being in the neighbourhood : it would be a
compliment to say that you wished to call and see
Aunt Kemble and the Pinnacles people before the former
finally leaves that part of the country. Why not
take a case of wine for Mr Fanshawe as an acknowledgment
of the interest he has taken in Arabella ?
He really behaved very handsomely in taking the old
rectory off your father's hands without the customary
notice  in a moment as it were ; very few people
would have done that, you know."

Percival stroked his chin, and without heeding
the last part of his aunt's exordium, inquired who
was going to pay for the case of wine.

You and your father between you," replied Marcia,
undauntedly ; "lam sure my brother would not object.
But I think, coming from you, it would be a nice way
of opening negotiations, and it would be an attention
to Mr Fanshawe "

And a nice little surprise for him," interrupted
Percival, with his horrid leer and grin.

Well, that is all arranged," said Marcia, thinking
she was following up an advantage; "and you can
say that little Anna is still in such an unsatisfactory
state that we are obliged to have her home, so that it
will be impossible for me to go to Pinnacles and accompany

Aunt Kemble to her new abode. You could say
that you have offered to represent me,  this will be
doing the thing in the best style, and fits everything
in the most natural manner possible."

Percival agreed that it was a very feasible plan, and
submitted, without demur, to his aunt's advice ; and
as the natural amenity of his disposition always caused
him to gloat over the annoyances of other people, hein
perspective enjoyed the confusion with which he
imagined Stephen, and certainly Miss Fanshawe, would
be overwhelmed when his descent upon Pinnacles
should take place.

His former misgivings and hesitation as to the advisability
of the Fanshawe connection having vanished
under the "pressure of his uncomfortable " domestic
relations," Percival now worked himself up into the
conviction that he was desperately enamoured of Miss
Fanshawe, and that it was imperative that he should
go down to the country and bring matters to a decided
understanding, and that without loss of time. His
brother Stephen to be poaching on his preserves !
Perish the thought !

So Mr La Touche promptly managed a business
excuse, opened his heart, moreover, to procure the case
of wine and pay for it on his own account, and set
off for the county of Yarnee, full of triumphant expectation,
and expedited by the good wishes of Aunt
Marcia.

These last were genuine and sincere. Although it
might, in some respects, be advantageous to the family

to keep Percival among them, Marcia, with the fear
before her eyes that the Brighton manage might eventually,
through her nephew's means, acquire a legitimate
head, had of late contrived to have always one
nice girl or another domiciled as a visitor at Hinton
Square. Pleasant, good-looking women were also
Frequent casual guests at their quiet dinners, and
the " small and early " evening parties. Nothing
had hitherto come of this diplomacy, for Percival's
inordinate vanity led him to regard himself as
irresistible, and it was his pleasure to pit (as he flattered
himself) one lady against another in his good
graces. The consequence of this was, that the nice
girls, and the eligibles, and the fascinating women,
t ed to the camps of the younger brothers, and
were quite au mieux with these young gentlemen, who,
on their side, were content to be the objects of passing
and innocent flirtation.

Marcia then tried " girls with money," but none of
these would even look at Percival ; and the handsome
Stephen, having given out that he would not be bought
ii] > by any woman, was at the time a very forlorn hope
in Aunt Marcia's sight.

It was in the midst of these difficulties that Lillian
Fanshawe paid her first visit to Hinton Square, and
the general admiration which she commanded drew
Percival's attention to her for the first time. Till
then he had merely regarded her as one of the quiverful
of the Rector of Pinnacles, and had perhaps wondered
how she and her numerous sisters would be

disposed of in matrimony,  arranging in his own mind
that Miss Lillian would eventually marry her father's
curate, and that the Fanshawe interest would ultimately
secure a living for the provision of the pair.

The visit that Miss Fanshawe paid to Hinton
Square very soon dispossessed Percival of this idea.
The quiet self-possession of the young lady, her cool
tact, and the easy manner in which she fell into the
style of London society, with its ways and habits, at
first excited the amazement of Mr La Touche, and
ended by securing his admiration.

He delighted to inform his friends that the 
girl with whom he had been seen
at the Botanical fetes, or at the Eose Show at the
Horticultural, was the guest of his family, and was
leaving them to pay a visit to her aunt Lady
Hautenbas.

Judging from some of Percival's remarks, Miss
Fanshawe drew the inference that both he and his
family looked, if not with actual contempt, still with
depreciation upon persons of all grades who live
entirely in the country ; and it was rather in a spirit
of defiance that Miss Fanshawe played the town lady
with much greater aplomb in Hinton Square than
she was wont to do when in the mansion of Lady
Hautenbas.

When Percival La Touche showed himself especially
purse-proud and insolent, Miss Fanshawe had a quiet
retaliative way of alluding to the wonderful manner
in which persons of all degrees made their fortunes

in trade. She spoke of some as " mere mercJucnticles ; "
and marly sent Marcia into a fit one day by assuming
bo believe that Percival had begun life as a commercial
traveller.

"Do you not know," exclaimed Miss La Touche,
that Percival is sole heir to Mr Squash, his grand-uncle!
and when the old man dies my nephew will
have at least seven thousand a-year, independent of
his share in the business ? "

 Yes, I have heard that often enough," the girl
replied, looking as unruffled as a snowflake, and
with a voice quite as icy ; " but you know heirs as
well as other folks must subsist and possess the
wherewithal to live. I meant no offence ; indeed I
think it very honourable to your nephew that he
should have earned his living with such expectations
as his."

But he never was a commercial traveller, never,"
insisted Marcia, with great emphasis.

I don't suppose it much signifies," returned the
visitor. "Why, Mr Tyson, a man of good, poor
family, weighed out tea for years in an apron and
white sleeves in a warehouse in St Paul's Churchyard.
He was never thought the worse of for so doing. A
fine handsome man, who is now rich through his own
commonsense, and who is proud of his antecedents
in commerce. We have all a high respect for Mr
Tyson."

Not knowing how to carry on this incipient warfare,
Marcia remained silent. She, however, reported

the conversation to Percival, with the intimation that
it would not do for him to play grand with Miss
Fanshawe,  " it may do very well with the Dowager of
Cauldkail and the Slocombes, and even with those
poor rags of nobility the Ladies Varnish. The girl
has an opinion of her own, and can, or thinks she
can, pick and choose," insisted Marcia.

A very few months after Miss Fanshawe's visit,
Percival came into his fortune ; and as London and
Brighton life had at that time especial charms for
him, and his father's house was both comfortable and
convenient, he elected to reside there still, and to let
the principal part of his property for a term of years.

His aunt's proposition that he should still make
Hinton Square his headquarters in the event of his
marrying, had acted as a powerful stimulant in Mr
La Touche's intentions towards Miss Fanshawe. An
undercurrent of jealousy of his brother Stephen also
became a very decided motive power, and caused him
to depart for Yarneshire with all convenient speed.
The possibility that his proposals might be rejected
by the lady in question or her father, never crossed
his mind. His wardrobe was packed, the case of
wine was on the carriage-seat, and Percival went his
way, Marcia wishing him good speed. Vce victim !

CHAPTEE II.

A HEARTY COUNTRY WELCOME.

The whole of the party at Pinnacles were under the
cherry-trees, then in full bloom,  for it was one of
those delightful phases of the English spring, when
the afternoon sun is genially warm and sheds his
radiance for a short spell, as if to give an earnest of the
fair summer which is in his wake,  and a grand discussion
was going on as to the advisability of there
and then setting up targets for archery practice.

Mrs Kemble had been induced to leave her house,
and to come and sit on the lawn in a cushioned old-fashioned
chair, which Miss Clavering had drasfsred
out for the afflicted lady's especial benefit. And there
she sat, quiet and happy, at times nodding her head
and smiling at the young people who passed to and
fro discussing their projects, and severally trying to
bring the rector round to the opinion that it was just
the weather for an archery party, and that it was
so delightful to gather people together in out-door
amusements, and the like.

The rector, however, presented a stubborn and
opposing element to the machinations of his young
friends. His Mte noire through life had been east
wind ; and as he got a good deal of this ingredient, both
in his physical and domestic relations, he had come to
air it as his own particular grievance, and to drag it
forward as an invincible argument against garden-parties
and fetes of every kind. The very word fate
had a light zephyr-like sound which was repulsive to
his British ears : it brought with it a flavour of sunny,
warm, and dulcet airs, in which, in the common ordering
of things, no Briton had a right to indulge ; it
smacked of French frivolity and Italian sloth, and the
enjoyable dolce far niente was a relaxation which he
never permitted even to the over-worked of brain
or the sorrowful of heart. Now he must have his
say about the proposed archery party.

"You think because it is rather warm for an hour
now," said Mr Fanshawe to Miss Leppell, " that we are
beginning a course of fine genial weather. It will
snow tomorrow, most likely, and perhaps rain the day
after. Yes, the cherry-trees look splendid now, but
every blossom will be cut off in a week. I don't
believe we will have a cherry this year, and I am sure
the wind will bear round to the east as soon as the
sun goes down."

Mary, who from long experience knew the value
of the rector's weather-forecasts, returned no remark
concerning the elements, but asked humbly if they
might be allowed to have an inspection in the barn on

the morrow. " You have got a lot of targets there, Mr
Fanshawe," she said, " and the boys might dust them
and mend them up. We have always to do a good
deal of this kind of thing at Hunter's Lodge before the
targets are ready for company ; might we not just look
through the  the stock, and see what materials are
available? You are so well off for stands and other
things that, I think, you could well set up targets for
three sets of archers without any expense. I can mend
and paint and stuff a target with any one."

The rector was on the brink of refusal. But who
can resist the pleadings of a sweet young face, and
that accompanied by the courteous deference of the
young girl to the elderly man ? Had Mary been
end with the sharp "bounce" of the girl of the

period, which is so fatal to beauty, and so offensive in
itself, not an arrow would have been shot for months
on Pinnacles lawn.

Well, yes, there's no harm in looking through the
archery gear," the rector replied ; " and you Leppell
girls seem to know how to do all work that's not needle
and thread. I've seen you stuff a target, Miss Moll.
You shall have the key of the barn tomorrow ; there
are some good arrows, never used, somewhere  I'll
rout them out  but we won't talk of an archery-party
till we see it ;  too early in the season,  east wind."

Oh yes ; and we will want to practise a little for a
few days," returned this young diplomatist; "and I
must teach Mr Clavering a little : he has no notion
of these out-of-door sports  not even cricket."

"A mistake, my dear Moll,  every Englishman
should play cricket ; " and then the rector walked away
and invited Mrs Kemble to pace up and down in the
sun. " Sitting in that chair would only cramp her
limbs," he said ; and offering her his arm, they went
here and there, and Mrs Kemble was so happy, and
discussed so easily, that the good man became convinced
that another mistake had been committed of a
far graver import. Mrs Kemble had been allowed to
remain too much alone, and had not been treated with
sufficient kindness. This was the truth concerning
the whole matter.

There was just the sharp dart through the air and an
occasional uprising of the wind as the afternoon fell
into evening, which confirmed Mr Eanshawe's prognostications,
and during the next half-hour complaints
of " chill " were unwillingly extorted from the most
juvenile lips  so transient is the early spring-time in
mid England.

Presently a pile of home-made cake and flagons of
good mulled elder wine (prepared in the orthodox
silver saucepan of our ancestresses) made its appearance
on the lawn, and inspired no doubt by its influence,
a game of " Bank," as this pastime was now
called, was universally proposed wherewith to conclude
the pleasures of the out-of-door day.

Just as all had been arranged for a start, the
deep-toned bell of the hall-door rung a fretful,
nervous peal, which seemed to tell of itself that
the visitor was either of an irritable temperament, or

that time was pressing and demanded immediate
attention.

I hope it is no one come to call," exclaimed Mrs
Fanshawe, with the hospitable candour of the British
matron when she is unwilling to be disturbed in her
avocations.

"It's the Wiggins," volunteered Master Horace.
They have heard we have got visitors, and wish to
give us an opportunity of asking them to join us."

"Hold your tongue, sir," said the rector; "what
business have you to speak of any parishioner in that
manner ? Go round and see who it is. Don't show
yourself. It may be Mr Struggles on business,  I
rather expect him."

Harold hied away, and from some invisible coign of
vantage he espied a small gentleman clanging at the
front door,  " at least I think he is small," this observer
remarked, on his return to report what he had
seen ; " but I could only make out his left leg, and
half of one of his shoulders, for lie turns to the thirty-two
points of the compass in a moment, I do believe :
any way, lie fidgets as if he had an early bee about him."

Show whoever the visitor is into the drawing-room,
and be sure and say that the family are all out
in the garden," said Miss Etta, who had pelted after
the parlour-maid as the latter was well on her way
to answer the summons of the bell. This caused
her young mistress some difficulty in getting out
of sight before the visitor was admitted within the
house.

There was some little bustle as a portmanteau and
a large wooden case were brought in from the vehicle
and deposited in the porch. " The case will remain
here, and the portmanteau can be sent down to
Esperanza ' presently,  I shall sleep there," declared
a voice which Etta fancied she recognised, though at
the moment she could not recall to whom it belonged.
I hope the family are all well."

"Please to walk in, sir," replied the maid, who,
recognising Percival, and flurried by the way in which
he had installed his baggage, neglected to answer Mr
La Touche's inquiry most completely. Ushering him
into the drawing-room, she closed the door of that
apartment with a bang in order to apprise Etta that
she might issue forth in safety.

Dismay was legibly depicted on the face of the
domestic as, after securing the new arrival, she confronted
that damsel. " Mr Percival La Touche, Miss,"
said she in a stage whisper ; " what can have brought
him here ? and his Haunt setting in the garden, so
sensible like ! I had not better tell your Mar before
Mrs Kemble," continued the girl wisely ; " the old
lady can't bear Mr Percival, and it might frighten
her, his coming so promiscuous like."

You are right," said Etta ; " go to Mr Fanshawe
and tell him that a gentleman is in the drawing-room
who wishes to see him, but don't say anything to Mr
Stephen, unless he is quite out of Mrs Kemble's
hearing. If Mr Stephen is quite away from his aunt,
tell him that his brother is here."

.Air Fanshawe had deposited Mrs Kemble in her
chair after their little promenade, and persuaded her
to take alass of the mulled elder wine ; after presenting
this beverage he turned to walk into the house.

To him the waiting-maid, who announced that a
gentleman on business was waiting to see him in the
drawing-room. " Ah, as I thought, Mr Struggles; " and
the rector, without waiting to hear the visitor's name,
went into the house at a rapid rate. Rhoda, seeing
that Stephen was standing before his aunt, went no
further, but followed her master into the hall with the
vain intention of communicating the visitor's name.
The door of the room closed on Mr Fanshawe before
he could be caught, and it was therefore with much
sur] ' hat the rector had the honour of receiving
Mr Percival La Touche.

I have some business at Bath' Percival said, in
explanation of his sudden visit ; " and as I have a
little time to spare, I have devoted it to calling here,
and also to take leave of my aunt before she finally
leaves this part of the world. Although my brother is
staying with her, I dare say I can be accommodated
for one night at * Esperanza.' "

The rector's answer was to invite Mr La Touche
into the garden, wherein, he told his visitor, all his
family and some guests then were, including Mrs
Kemble, who, Mr Fanshawe said, seemed not only
more composed, but also much more cheerful and
talkative than formerly. This improvement he attributed
to Mr Stephen's visit.

No doubt  very likely' returned Percival, with a
sarcastic intonation of voice ; " he's been away for
some time, and variety is charming. My brother
Stephen quite serves to illustrate this axiom."

The rector did not know why, but he did not relish
the tone in which Percival spoke : whether the
variety " mentioned consisted in the visit to Pinnacles,
or to the enjoyment of Mrs Kemble's society
solely, on Stephen's part, he could not quite understand,
and therefore he took the discreet way of
solving a difficulty by answering with the neutral,
Hum, haw ; we all like a change."

Though of a quiet and undemonstrative temperament,
Mr Panshawe was by no means so devoid of
penetration as many persons elected to believe. He
had ever regarded the elder Mr La Touche as a kindly
selfish old humbug, who made the best of both worlds,
and Marcia as a thorough worldling, whose backsliding
were in a great measure redeemed by her warmth of
heart, and the undoubted sincerity with which she devoted
herself to her brother's family. Mr Fanshawe
also entertained a shrewd suspicion that the world in
general had Marcia to thank for the many whims
and absurdities which distinguished the eldest scion
of the house of La Touche. She had uniformly pampered
his appetite to keep him in good humour, and
had set him up on a pinnacle and glorified him
mightily, in deference at first to his expectations, and
more lately in deference to his position and actual
possessions, and often at the expense of his own

kith and kin. All this Mr Fanshawe had noted
on the occasions whereon Mrs Kemble's business had
brought him in contact with the La Touche family ;
and now that the young people were interchanging
visits, the rector convinced himself that his early impressions
of Mrs Kemble's relatives were thoroughly
correct.

Though of a mean higglety nature, which he certainly
did not inherit from his parents, Percival was not
altogether a person to be overlooked, much less to be
lightly esteemed. He was well educated, and he also
took much interest in many of the scientific enterprises
of the day ; and when he could divest himself of
the notion that the man entertained some design upon
\n> anmercial influence, and that the woman held
snares for entrapping him into matrimony, no one
could be more agreeable or diverting than Percival La
Touche. He added to a certain graphic method of
imparting information, a vein of sarcasm which was
amusing in its way, although it never attained to the
confines of wit.

The misfortune was that, in common with many
underbred persons, Percival never knew where to
stop ; and his utter want of sympathy for others
often led him to indulge in personalities which always
gave great offence, and very often gave great pain.
He imagined, in his presumption, that to indulge in
personalities was a sure evidence of his own insight
into the character of those with whom he chanced to
come in contact.

Here it was, if the expression may be permitted,
that Mr La Touche broke down. What sense was
there in especially alluding to courts-martial when
in conversation with an officer who, at one time of
his career, had suffered the annoyance of being censured
by one of these tribunals ? Why remind Mr
Grave that his mother had been Dr Grave's cook ?
What object was served by informing the Protestant
bishop of Soapisande that Eoman Catholicism was
steadily on the increase, when he knew full well that
the prelate's only daughter and her husband had
joined the Catholic Church, and attributed this step
to the teaching and preaching of the right reverend
ecclesiastic then dining at the same table ?

These and the like solecisms Percival frequently
and knowingly committed ; and as they were in some
cases indulgently passed over from the firm belief of
the affronted ones that the man was " cracked," and in
the greater majority from the latitude which the world,
in its worship of wealth, ever allows to the possessor
of its honours and its gold, this glaring offender
escaped scot-free in situations wherein an impecunious
man would have encountered a withering glance, if
not a sharp rebuke. He certainly could steal society's
horse when another man dared not venture to look
over the hedge at that animal.

Mr Fanshawe had delayed some moments in conducting
Percival into the garden,  for the latter, with
a mysterious sign, had beckoned his host towards the
hall porch as they left the room. Drawing himself

VOL. II. c

up before the case of wine, he said, " It's the very best
I could get  real Marsala ; and I have put in a couple
of bottles of brandy and four of whisky, all good
brands  drop of comfort, you know ; cold nights now
and then, even "

You had better place this at the discretion of Dr
Williams," Mr Fanshawe said, mistaking the destination
of the case. " It's very good of you, and very
right to add to Mrs Kemble's comforts ; but I fancy,
at present at least, that the rules of the asylum would
not allow such items as wine and spirits to be entirely
at the command of the patient."

Oh ! it's not for Mrs Kemble," replied Percival,
hastily ; " such luxuries must come out of the board
she'll have to pay. It's for you, Mr Fanshawe  little
remembrance  gratitude for taking the house off our
hands "

Very kind of your father," said the rector ; " will
you "

But it's not from the governor," interrupted
Percival, with a triumphant cackle ; " it's from me.
You see I know how to do the handsome thing. No
thanks  I take those as said; all I want you to dois
to be particular about returning the case. Send
it as a ' returned empty,' and the carriage will be buta
trifle ; be sure and address it to me. It is a private
package, with which the firm has nothing to do."

Mr Fanshawe felt inclined to kick the case into
space, and the donor of its contents for company ; but
he swallowed his indignation in the conviction that

Percival meant well by the offering, and that he really
knew no better how to present it. So he accepted the
wine very much in the manner of a chief who receives
tribute in kind, and undertook to return the " empty "
according to directions. " Now come into the garden,"
he urged, as he was beginning to feel that he had
enough of Percival; "the young people are at high
jinks, and you may like to join them. As your brother
has not come into the house, he very probably expects
you on the lawn."

Percival seized his umbrella; this article was as
necessary to him as a broomstick to a witch. His
brothers declared that he slept with it; and there
was another legend current in Hinton Square that a
Frenchman in Vienna, discerning Percival as a spot
upon the far horizon, had unhesitatingly pronounced
his nationality : " Ah, voila ! c'est un veritable Anglais
; il n'a pas oublie son parapluie."

Arming himself therewith, Mr La Touche followed
his host through the hall, and up the flight of low
broad steps which led out upon the lawn and terrace
walk, and so into the open air.

The disposition of the group had somewhat altered,
as twilight had begun to sober the sky, and the game
of " bank " could be put off no longer. The young
people were, therefore, collected at the foot of the
terrace walk, and Mrs Fanshawe had vanished to
superintend some domestic arrangements. A few of
the nursery children were running here and there, but
Mrs Kemble was alone, looking with great interest

from her cushioned chair upon the game which was
going on directly in front of her seat.

So absorbed was she that she did not perceive
Mr Fanshawe and his companion until they were
within a few feet of her. The kindly smile on the
rector's face literally froze there, as Mrs Kemble, upon
recognising them, rushed with a bound upon Percival,
threatening him with instant death, and, in addition,
using such language as is popularly supposed to bethe
sole property of the lowest order of people. This
was interspersed with cries and shrieks, and naturally
these last more particularly attracted the players from
their game.

You wretch ! you villain ! " called out Mrs Kemble,
as, after exhausting her strong appellatives, she fell
back upon a milder vernacular ; "just as I am getting
happy and sane  quite sane  you come back to torment
me. But you can't frighten me any more ; you
can't shake your fists and make me say what you
please  oh, no ! Heigh cock-a-lorum ! Stephen is
going to protect me, and somebody else  ah, a pretty
girl ! Dr Williams is going to marry me  his mother
does not know he is out; but I must wring your
neck, my dear, before that.

' Froggy would a-wooing go,
Height ! says Rowley.'

But I must have a clutch at Froggy "  and she again
darted towards her nephew, with the evident determination
to inflict some injury upon that gentleman.

He meanwhile, pale as death, stood his ground,
using the umbrella as a weapon of defence,  now
twirling it round with great rapidity, and again
pointing it in full front of his relative, thus keeping
her at bay, whilst she danced round him in a wild
maze which was truly horrifying. It certainly was
marvellous how Percival managed to foil his assailant
at all points, with the intervention solely of so
slight a defence ; and it is probable that the steadiness
with which he fixed his eyes upon Mrs Kemble's
face, and maintained his gaze without swerve or
shrink, was the means whereby she was at length
reduced to exhaustion, if not to quietude, in three
minutes of time.

It was a sad scene : the rector writhed under the
knowledge of an open scandal committed in his very
presence. Stephen could have knocked his brother
down for his wanton intrusion : he would rather have
cut off his right hand than Miss Clavering should
have witnessed such an exposure. It must be patent
to all that the affliction of his aunt was somewhat
more than an indisposition that is passed off as a
nervous " or " peculiar " affection. The girls fled in
all directions ; it was only Emma Fanshawe who
preserved a stolid bearing, and stood open-mouthed,
witnessing the gyrations of the umbrella in a mixture
of wonder and interest, which on a less trying
occasion would have been ludicrous in the extreme.

A sensation of relief was experienced by all when
the poor lady, exhausted by her exertions, came to

a sudden stand-still, and exclaimed, " I am tired out ;
but I will catch that villain another time, when I amin
the vicinity of a poker, my dears nice handy
weapon ! No more Heigh cock-a-lorum to-day ; I
am tired out now. Oh where, where is Miss Clavering?
I know she won't desert me. Do come,
Miss Clavering ! "

The last words were spoken in a tone which was
almost inaudible, and Willina was just in time to
support Mrs Kemble as she stumbled forward, faint
and rigid, into her strong young arms. Delicacy,
rather than fear, had kept Willina somewhat aloof:
her time for action was now come, and she commenced
operations by warning Percival off the premises.


You had better keep out of sight, had you not ? "
she said in a suggestive tone to this young gentleman ;
it would be so dreadful if Mrs Kemble were to recognise
you when she comes round. Pray, keep out of
sight ; and Emma, like a good girl, run and get some
wine and water."

Percival mechanically did as he was requested, feeling
somehow a strange pleasure in obeying the behest
of this fair stranger. As he moved aside, he could not
help looking with admiration upon the graceful form
and earnest speaking eyes of the girl,  eyes which by
their expression seemed to appeal to his commonsense,
and at the same time to exonerate him from the imputation
that he might be responsible for this sudden
outbreak. There was too, he thought, something of

compassion in her glance. Certainly a more embarrassing
situation could scarcely be imagined, and it
was a consolation in its way to perceive that there
was one person among the number present who understood
the position, and who could, moreover, sympathise
with the annoyance with which it was fraught.

The rector had vanished : his mission was to find his
wife, and consult with her what was best to be done.
The outcome of the consultation was the appearance
of an old bath-chair in which invalids at Pinnacles
were wont to be dragged short distances when their
locomotive powers were out of order, or temporarily
suspended through illness or some of the accidents to
which our earthly tabernacle is heir.

Don't let her into the house," Mrs Fanshawe had
insisted rather than implored  " you never know
where these attacks may end. As it is, our party is
very much disturbed. Mary Leppell is frightened
out of her senses, and Mr Clavering must needs take
to swearing by way of relieving his feelings : you
see it would never do. Besides, Mrs Kemble has got
her two nephews."

There's the difficulty," answered Mr Fanshawe ;
it will never do to let Percival La Touche sleep
at the old rectory as he proposed and intended, nor
even to go near it  she'd murder the fellow ; and all
our rooms are full. But I don't like sending the poor
soul back to her house without some lady to look after
her ; indeed we ought to have her within, if only to lie
down on the sofa in my study."

There's the bath-chair," answered the lady ; " when
she is better Stephen can get her into that, and Horace
can push at the back. I suppose I must go and see
her into bed," continued Mrs Fanshawe, ungraciously ;
Etta and Emma are both too nervous ; besides, we
have no right to frighten young girls. Well, get out
the bath-chair, and I will see what can be done ;
perhaps Stokes is clean,  if so, I'll send her."

Now Stokes was the girl in the kitchen, not a
kitchen-maid proper, and had fate sent Stokes in
attendance upon Mrs Kemble, the chances were that,
betwixt ignorance and fear, Mrs Fanshawe might have
had the management of two " peculiars " on her hands
that night.

T wish Lillian were here," suggested the rector,
with some slight misgiving as to how the remark
would be received ; " at any rate she would have accompanied
Mrs Kemble at once, and smoothed all
difficulties with the guests."

Mrs Kemble doesn't like her," said the rector's
wife shortly ; " will you go and get the bath-chair ?
I suppose I had better go out and see how matters
are going on : dear, dear, it's very inconvenient
having people subject to attacks ! Of course the
nephews will communicate with Dr Williams at
once ; as to Percival, I can put him up in the spare
attic."

The rector sped his way to the coach-house wherein
the vehicle was laid up, if not in lavender, yet dry
and serviceable amid straw and hay. Mrs Fanshawe

appeared on the lawn, and, summoning Stephen, laid
out the plan of action that was to be pursued.

Your brother must stay here," said she, " and must
on no account be seen near the old rectory. It would
be advisable to persuade Mrs Kemble to keep within
doors, or at least not to go beyond her garden till she
leaves the place. The bath-chair will be here directly.
Put her into it, Horace will help you to propel it,
and I will come with you to see your aunt safely into
the house, and into her bed. You had better stay
with her till she goes to sleep ; then the woman at
the house can look to her, and you can come
here as fast as you can. Mr Percival will excuse
an upper chamber here for to-night under the
circumstances.

Here is the bath-chair,  put the cushion into it,
Horace. Are you better ? don't you think you would
like to go home, and get into bed ? " continued Mrs
Fanshawe, turning round suddenly, and addressing
herself to the patient.

Yes, oh, I'm very well  rather tired, perhaps, but
thank you for a very pleasant afternoon," Mrs Kemble
answered feebly. " Stephen will take me home. I
am to go in that thing, am I ?" she continued, looking
doubtfully at the vehicle. " Miss Clavering, you are
there ; give me your arm, my dear. That little villain
has gone, has he ? "

Quite gone," replied poor Stephen, who, good fellow
as he was, felt rather rueful at the part Mrs Fan-share
had assigned to him. He, however, accepted

his responsibility without remark ; but he made a
mental determination, and that was, that the woman
at the house should attend to his aunt, and that he
would return to the Court as quickly as he decently
could. He was not going to allow Percival to make
all the running, which, as Miss Fanshawe was absent,
he felt his brother would attempt to do in the direction
of Miss Clavering. He was not blind, and he thought
he had perceived some very furtive and enamoured
glances already cast by that relative in the direction
of the lady.

Considering the circumstances, and the shortness
of time, it must be confessed that both the La
Touche brothers had improved their opportunities
wi 1 celerity which was quite electric  in its

working.

Mrs Kemble was with some little difficulty inveigled
into the bath-chair ; a misgiving had seized her poor
weak brain that this was a prison on a small scale
in which she was to be for ever shut up : it was only
on the promise that Miss Clavering would stay with
her, and hold her hand till she should be disgorged
from the vehicle, that she could be persuaded to enter
it. The presence of Mrs Fanshawe was in consequence
an absolute necessity, and it looked well for
her humanity as well as for her sense of propriety
that she accompanied the cortege, and remained with
Mrs Kemble until she could be safely left to the
attendant's care. As a supplementary precaution, the
gardener's boy was enjoined to remain in the house,

to be ready to run up to the Court, should the necessity
for further help arise. This would be hardly
necessary, for Mrs Kemble, as soon as she was laid
in her bed, fell into the heavy sleep of utter exhaustion.


The convoy returned to the Court, together with
the bath-chair, into which the young gentlemen insisted
on placing Mrs Fanshawe. Everything was
necessarily late, owing to the contretemps of the
afternoon. The supplementary dishes of the evening
meal were spoiled, and the rector, if he did not actually
refuse conversation, was snappish and out of sorts.
Nobody would play or sing; in fact, everything appeared
jangled and out of tune. Percival seemed to bethe
only person who was thoroughly unconcerned and
at ease ; and his brother, who knew him well, felt convinced
that he was privately exulting over the embarrassment
which his unwelcome advent had occasioned,
and that he would make a fine story of the affair,
even though it told against himself, when he should
return to Hinton Square. Mrs Fanshawe, for once in
her life, wished that her elder daughter had been at
home ; for Etta was too shy to cope with Mr La
Touche, and Mr Clavering seemed to take care that
Mary Leppell should have nothing to do with that
gentleman. In consequence, Miss Clavering exerted
herself to alleviate the annoyance which she felt sure
Mr La Touche must feel, in spite of his apparent
indifference ; and this provoked Stephen into abandoning
the young lady to her decided preference, as he

was pleased in his own mind to regard her well-meaning
offices.

It was therefore with the most cordial sincerity that
the members of this party, at ten o'clock, wished the
one the other " Good night."

CHAPTER III.

THE SIMPLICITY OF TRUTH.

The apartment which had been assigned to the use of
Mr La Touche was veritably an upper chamber, lighted
by a large dormer-window, and of the shape of a highly
irregular triangle, the apex of which dashed laterally
into a corner, and terminated in a commodious dress



This room was formed partly by the stone-work of
the outer wall, but the inner partition was of wood.
It was evident that a similar construction existed on
the other side, and that this was the junction of one
of the corners of the slanting roof.

Percival, true to his habits of caution and precaution,
engendered perhaps by his experience of insular and
Continental travel, bolted the door; and then, taking
up the candlestick, he surveyed the apartment with
rather more of scrutiny than is usually employed ina
private house.

His horror of catching cold always prompted him
to examine the bedding provided for his use, wherever

he might be. He would have done so even in
Buckingham Palace. So he thumped the mattresses
and smelt at the sheets, and snuffed for damp withall
the apprehension of a valetudinarian of ninety
years.

This inspection being concluded, he proceeded to
the dressing-room and took a look around therein.
It presented the usual appearance of a boarded-off
compartment, made serviceable for a second person
who might chance to share the sleeping accommodation
of the principal room. A chair, a full toilet
apparatus of homely kind, and some hanging-hooks,
composed the furniture of this sanctum, from which
Percival withdrew in haste, feeling as he imagined a
cold draught : he, however, left the door partially
unclosed in his retreat.

The inspection proving satisfactory, the visitor set
down the light and plunged into the depths of one of
those easy-chairs with high circular back and stuffed
\l elbow-rests, covered with white dimity and generously
flounced below, which are yet to be found in the bedrooms
of old-fashioned houses.

How comfortable, how homely these are ! Percival
was right in his assumption that this piece of furniture
had formerly been the house-mother's haven of
refuge in the early days of her weakness, subsequent
to the advent of the several scions of the house of
Fanshawe.

It had fulfilled its duty in that state of life into
which it had been at first called, and was now destined

to end its career in the higher regions of the house,
and impart an air of respectability and finish to the
room which was dedicated to male chance visitors
from without, and to casual invalids of that sex from
within.

Percival, from this coign of vantage, now mentally
surveyed his position ; and as he had arrived at his
destination with the full intention of proposing for
one lady, and had in her absence become desperately
enamoured of another, his mind was naturally in
rather a perplexed condition.

The possibility of his being rejected by either of
these ladies never crossed his imagination : his present
dilemma was how he could best attract and secure
Miss Clavering's regard, and yet not appear to desert
Miss Fanshawe.

The absence of the latter appeared to be a most
fortuitous circumstance, as things turned out; but
this did not prevent his coming to Pinnacles being
rather a marked thing to do, for which anxiety concerning
Mrs Kemble's removal was hardly a sufficient
pretence. All authority on that affair had been delegated
to Stephen, and the Eanshawes collectively must
be fully aware of the fact.

True, he had alleged, with his usual habit of self-defence,
that business in a neighbouring county was
the cause of his making a detour in the direction of
Yarneshire, added to his desire to take leave of the
family at Pinnacles. Now that Mrs Kemble was to
be finally removed, it was a chance, said Percival to

Mr Fanshawe, whether he should visit that part of
the country for some time to come.

Mr Fanshawe probably believed all this. His wife
had her doubts, possibly also her fears ; but Percival
felt sure that his brother attached very little credence
to this assertion.

There was one thing, however, of which Percival
was positively certain, and that was, that metal more
attractive than poor Aunt Arabella induced Stephen
to prolong his stay in Yarneshire ; and with the elation
of a little mind, he grinned and exulted at what
he considered to be his own astuteness in at once
discovering his brother's secret.

Percival further reflected that, as he had brought
himself into its neighbourhood, he must call at
Hunter's Lodge. This he had certainly intended todo,
as a visit of congratulation on the part of himself
and his family on the approaching marriage of Miss
Leppell.

This projected event had been formally announced
to Marcia, so all was plain sailing in that direction.

Further, to give a fair colour to his previous assertions,
this diplomatist had informed Mary Leppell
that he contemplated doing himself the honour of
calling upon her parents, either immediately or upon
his return from his business tour.

The young lady, thinking to do Lillian a good turn,
and with an excellent opinion of her own powers of
manoeuvring, enjoined Mr La Touche to go to Hunter's
Lodge forthwith.

Papa is in London," she said, simply, " and he
hates visitors ; so you had better take an early train
and so over and lunch there tomorrow. Mamma
and Clara will be glad to see you ; and, you know,
Lillian is filling my place at home, now that grand-mamma
is so ill. Would you mind taking a note and
a tiny parcel for me if you go ? "

Percival undertook the commission ; and as no invitation
to prolong his stay over the night had been
tendered by Mrs Fanshawe, and the antagonistic attitude
of Mrs Kemble rendering it unsafe for him to
take even refreshment at the old rectory, he decided
to depart on the morrow, stay at the Ked Lion at
Yarnee for the next night, and so proceed on his tour.

All this was very nicely arranged for getting rid of
Miss Fanshawe; but on reviewing his programme,
Percival became aware that it in nowise furthered
his prospects of improving his acquaintance with Miss
Clavering.

The idea that his brother might prove a serious
obstacle to the success of his plans, Percival rejected
almost as soon as it occurred to him ; but he was in
difficulty as to how Miss Clavering was to be cultivated.
He solved the enigma in this way : Mr Glas-cost
and Miss Clavering were coming to London on
their journey to Brydone. He would make Marcia
call upon the lady, and invite her to stay a few days
in Hinton Square.

Then he fell to thinking how advantageous from all
points of view a match with Miss Clavering would be

VOL. II. D

for himself. No sisters ; no herd of unmarried females
for him to entertain or chaperon about  an only
brother, and that brother affianced to a lady who, if
not a fortune, possessed that high connection which
commands many of the advantages which fortune
brings. Again, Miss Clavering had a little of her
own, and it was but fair to assume that she would
be handsomely dowered by her relative and guardian
whenever she might marry.

So, putting aside the personal attractions of the
lady, Percival found out at last that there was one
woman in the world who was thoroughly eligible to
occupy the position of his wife. But what of Lillian
Fanshawe ?

Well, she might be disappointed, but that need not
matter: he had never committed himself in that
direction. A few petite soins here and there were all
the latitude he had ever allowed himself, and these
petite soins meant nothing, as all the world knew.

Lillian, Mr La Touche assured himself  and rightly
was not of the stuff to cry or mourn over spilt
milk. Her good looks would always ensure her a
mate if she cared to marry ; and, after all, Marcia
might ferret up some city man with money who might
like the Fanshawe connection, and thus matters would
square themselves and no harm be done.

The course of these ruminations was arrested by
a shimmer of light which Percival descried upon the
floor of the dressing-room, through the half-open door.

Presently he heard voices, and it soon became evident

that two of the young ladies of the house were
denizens of the opposite gable, and that one of them
was then speaking from her dressing - closet to her
companion in the room into which it opened.

At first, what was said w T as conveyed in broken and
indistinct sounds, which, however, made Percival
aware that the girls had come up-stairs from some
household duty which had been required of them in
preparation for the morrow. Then the voices became
louder, and on approaching nearer, Percival had the
satisfaction of hearing Miss Etta and Miss Emma discussing
him, their guest, and that freely.

Tiresome little man ! " exclaimed the occupant of
the dressing-room, giving her hair-brush a rattle as if
she were shaking him. " It seems he can't eat mutton-chops,
and he won't eat cold beef, and veal-cutlets
don't agree with him ; so I have had to cut up all that
nice boiled fowl that was left at tea, in order to have
it ready to curry for his breakfast. Mind you don't
take any, Emma, for there is only just enough for the
visitors."

I suppose there will be some devilled kidneys,"
returned the sister. " Papa and the young La Touche
like them."

Yes ; but this old one won't touch them unless
they are cooked as splendidly as he gets them done at
home."

Percival winced at the estimation of his age : at
the moment he forgot that the speaker numbered but
sixteen years.

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

Marcia, the aunt, has a dreadful time of it, especially
when Mr La Touche gives a state dinner. The
cook has been there eighteen years, and takes things
more easily."

Ah ! you see," said Etta, sagaciously, " she does
not hear the fault-finding and grumbling : all that
comes upon the lady of the house. I heard old Mr
Shivers say, the other day, that nine-tenths of the
men dare not speak to their cooks in the way they
speak to their wives or female relations about the
dinners. Bless you ! the cooks don't lie awake all
night thinking over the dishes, and trying to remember
about the right sauces and all that."

"They are supposed to understand all particulars
of cookery," said Emma ; " it is part of their business."


I know ; but if they do make mistakes, it never
troubles or upsets them. Lillian has often made me
laugh at the cool way in which the La Touche cook
ignores all Percival's messages. Sometimes she sends
the dish complained of in another form to table;
and Percival never finds out that the same kidneys
he raved against in the morning form part of a
savoury pie at dinner, of which he partakes with
great gusto."

What fun ! " exclaimed the other girl.

I'll pitch into Marcia," vowed Percival, as he listened
to these revelations. He never thought, however,
of tackling the cook, who really was the sinner ;
for Miss La Touche was thoroughly ignorant of more

than half the metamorphoses which went on in the
kitchen to save appearances and avoid a row.

Suppose he does not like the curry," suggested
Miss Emma, after a pause.

That contingency has been provided for," answered
Etta : " we are going to have a nice little piece of
rump-steak, nicely grilled, and surrounded with a ring
of mushrooms. It seems Percival is very fond of
mushrooms, and they are always sent up from
Wheatley in the season for his private eating."

c Little glutton ! " exclaimed the sister. " Private
eating, indeed ! he deserves to live on bread and
water ! "

Fortunately," Etta went on, " there are a few very
young mushrooms to be found in one of the meadows,
and some of the boys will have to turn out and find
them tomorrow morning. The season is rather early,
and there will be scarcely enough to put round the
dish : mind you don't attempt to eat any of it,  ita
visitor's plat,  not for country maidens like ourselves."


"Plat  that's French," said Emma; "why don't
you speak plain English ? "

"Plat is the correct term for a little rechercM
dish. Lillian says that Percival is a gourmet  that
means a person who is more particular about the
quality than the quantity of the food ; what you calla
glutton is a gourmand."

"And so this little man is to have the best of
everything," said Miss Emma. " Pray, what will

happen if the plat goes wrong, or is not cooked to
his fancy ? "

If he can't put up with the dressed dishes of the
country, he will have to fill up with eggs," returned
Etta, sententiously. " You know we should not take
so much trouble, only Lillian has been visiting at
Hinton Square, and mamma thinks we ought to set
before Percival what he likes best. Well, we have
done our best ; and, as I said before, he can fill up
with eggs."

Here the girls laughed loudly, and Percival, on the
other side of the boarding, grinned for sympathy :
they had entirely forgotten the proximity of a
neighbour, and were again in full swing in their
conversation.

Miss Clavering seems a nice girl," called out Miss
Etta, from the bedroom.

Yes ; and her eyes are just like two stars : do you
know, she says that we are all too hard upon little
Mr La Touche, and that he is very agreeable and well
informed. Fancy that ! "

"You young monkey!" muttered Percival, under
his breath ; " how I hate bread-and-butter damsels."

So Lillian says  that is, when he chooses to waste
his sweetness on the desert air. You know he is
dreadfully afraid of people wanting to marry him ;
and to prevent this, he affected to be very rude and
disagreeable when he was young. Now that he has
got his fortune, I suppose he can't help himself ; and
the being disagreeable is now the nature of the beast."

Percival's face was now a " study " ; but he kept
perfectly still, as the girls were talking again.

I should not like to live in Jersey, if I were Miss
Clavering," said Emma ; " she will find it very dull 
worse than this, because there is the sea to cross."

Yes ; but they will often be in London. I think
Mr Glascott has a small house somewhere in that
neighbourhood ; it has been let until lately. I think
they are going to it for a month, whilst they buy new
furniture for the Jersey place."

Brydone ? "

Yes ; Brydone. If Lady Asher gets better, Miss
Clavering is to return to Hunter's Lodge with Mary,
and pay them a visit ; then I suppose the time of
Mary's wedding will be fixed. I hope Lady Asher
won't die ; it would really be very inconvenient," remarked
Miss Emma, with the utmost coolness.

She'll do now," said Etta, with an air of superior
wisdom; "but I don't mind her being rather ill, if
that keeps Lillian away and Mary here. It is not
that I do not care for Lillian ; but it is so uncomfortable
to be with her and mamma together, and now
that our sister is from home, mamma is so much
nicer in all ways. I wonder how it is that these
two have never got on ? "

I believe Lillian was intended to be a boy," said
Emma ; " but as she isn't, I wish she would marry.
Do you know, I fancy Stephen La Touche comes here
more on her account than for his aunt. I would like
him for a brother-in-law ; he is handsome, and quite

a gentleman. Now there is a dash of the snob in the
old man ; and this Percival, in spite of his money,
looks like a bad style of commercial traveller."

Here the individual in question objurgated Miss
Emma as an impertinent little beast, without, however,
naming the genus.

"You don't mean to infer that Lillian would look
at the old man ! " exclaimed Etta, aghast.

Oh dear no  I was thinking of the family style,
and how different Stephen is. I do wish," continued
the girl, with great enthusiasm in her voice and manner,
 " I do wish that Stephen and Lillian Fanshawe
would make a match of it."

That will never be  never ! " answered Etta.
Have you no eyes ? don't you see that Stephen La
Touche is over head and ears in love with Willina
Clavering ? I don't know much of these matters,
but I am not wrong in my conviction of this : however,
don't make any remark to any one else."

Oh no ; what is said up here between you and
me is sacred," said Emma ; " it is the only place where
we are safe. But I fancied that Stephen La Touche
was very much disappointed, the day he arrived, to
find that Lillian did gone to the other side of the
county."

Yes ; that is true enough. You see, he hardly
knows the rest of us, and Lillian having stayed in
his father's house, they seemed to be more like old
friends ; but when Miss Clavering came, he brightened
up considerably, and he always manages to get near

her. Besides this, Percival is supposed to be rather
an admirer of Lillian."

He has lots of money," said the elder girl slowly.

But what would Lillian say ? " demanded Miss
Emma ; " what does she think of him ? "

Percival here screwed himself close to the partition
; he was strangely interested in the answer that
was to come.

Who can tell what Lillian thinks of anybody ? She
is as mute as an oyster,  one of those who, like the
goose, says little but thinks the more," replied Etta.
Of course she would only take Percival for his
money. He is not so very old  twenty-nine, I think
but papa says he has got the ways of a man of fifty."

"Very much obliged to Mr Fanshawe, very,"
thought Percival. " I wonder if the family have
been discussing me in the privacy of their domestic
life. However, the money seems to smooth all objections,
even with these unsophisticated country innocents."
He suspended his mental comments, for the
girls were speaking again.

You see there is a drawback to the La Touches,
and one that papa would never get over," said Etta ;
they are all  well  cracked."

Oh, not all," returned the sister. " Stephen is
right enough, and the old man and the aunt are
weak, perhaps,  at least papa says so."

Yes ; but I have heard mamma say that if the complaint
were to attack Percival, it would be something
dreadful : she says he has got it in his eye "  here Mr

La Touche opened and shut his visual organs with great
rapidity  "got it in the look of his eye, I should
say ; and it would be something more than weakness
or peculiarity with him  it would be raging-madness."


How dreadful ! " replied Emma, her visions of a
brother-in-law becoming toned down by this assertion.
" But then," she added, " if he went very bad
suddenly, he could be put in an asylum at once, out
of harm's way, and he is rich enough to be a first-class
patient."

(t Yes, that is all very fine ; but suppose Mr La
Touche murdered Lillian (if she got him) first," said
Miss Etta, with the maturer reasoning of an elder
sister : " you never know what lunatics will be at."

But he is not a lunatic yet." said Emma ; " and if
he were to marry Lillian, it would keep him sane, I
am sure it would ; and as to violence, just look how
Mrs Kemble, quiet as she is, broke out upon him
when papa brought the poor little man out on the
lawn. That was raging madness, if you like,  if Aunt
Arabella could only have got at him then, we should
have had to pick up some of the pieces of the eldest
hope of the house of La Touche," and the girl laughed
merrily at this vision.

"What I admired in Percival," volunteered Etta,
was the cool and scientific way in which he received
Mrs Kemble's onslaught. Miss Clavering quite agreed
with me that he showed great presence of mind."

Percival brightened up at this, and breathed more

freely : it was comforting to find that Miss Clavering
had remarked him with approbation.

I don't see what there was particularly to admire,"
said Emma. " He turned very pale, and then he made
passes at the poor old lady with his umbrella."

It was not that," the sister said ; " it was the beautiful
play he made with the umbrella. Pointing at all
the four cardinal points of the compass, and working
in a circle with the accuracy of a teetotum, he never
touched his aunt, and yet he managed to keep her at
bay until Stephen came up. She danced round him
like a dervish the whole time, yet he never gave her
the slightest advantage."

Self-preservation," returned Miss Emma, decisively :
he's an awful little coward. Now you see, when the
other brother came up she became quiet directly, and
only said that she was afraid of Percival, and that he
was always unkind to her."

I am afraid he has been that," said Etta slowly ;
but then, you know, people of unsound mind take odd
likes and dislikes. We must not judge, but I wish this
had not happened, for of course all our friends will
have their own opinion of the matter."

So mamma thinks,  she says the sooner Mrs
Kemble is off, the better. Stephen was dreadfully
annoyed and put out ; but the elder brother rattled
away and made himself so agreeable to Miss Clavering
that she is very much inclined to take his part. I
heard her say to papa that she thought we were too
ready to blame him."

She only sees one side of his character," returned
the elder girl. " "Well, for my part, Lillian is welcome
to Mr La Touche, if she can put up with him  and, of
course, it would be a good thing for the eldest of all
of us to settle comfortably, or uncomfortably, as the
case might turn out. The man has got money, and
he is fairly well connected. The 'peculiarity 5 and
lunatic tendencies don't come out now, if he have
them, and papa has no right to object to what may
never happen. Lillian is just the balance for him ;
in her hands he would never kick the beam."

I would rather marry an Indian nabob or a
Patagonia chief than Percival La Touche ! " said
Emma, with emphasis. " One would know what the
undertaking would be with either of these, and their
cruelty would be all on the surface; but as to this
luxurious, patronising little snob,  I would rather
remain single all my life  I would."

Oh, if it comes to one of us  I mean, the question
of our marrying Percival La Touche," said Etta  " I
quite agree with you. He would not do for me, for I
should want more sympathy and more money for my
poor people than he would let me have. Besides, I
don't care for London people "

I don't like his style," interrupted Miss Emma ;
he thinks a great deal too much of himself."

And he winked, yes, winked, at the parlour-maid
this evening,  so ungentlemanly in a clergyman's
house," continued Miss Etta ; " and that little grin
of his is most offensive."

"And his rubbing his hands together, as if he had
got a ball of sand-soap within them, gives me the
fidgets," said Emma.

"Altogether, he is out of the question for you orme,"
returned the elder sister. " Lillian is a different
affair altogether; but I do think, if there were not
another man in the world, nothing would induce me
to marry Percival La Touche."

Nor I either," returned Emma ; " never, as you say,
if there were not another man in the whole creation,
would I marry Mr La Touche."

. . There was a sliding sound against the wall,
as if something had rubbed heavily against its whole
length, and a voice in a deep loud tone called out:
Wait,  wait till you are asked, young ladies."

Then the dressing door of the neighbouring room
banged heavily, and Etta, as she rushed into bed beside
her sister, clung convulsively to that damsel, saying,
Oh, what shall we do ? we forgot all about him,  he
has heard every word of what we have been saying.
I don't care so much for his knowing what we think
of him, but it may spoil Lillian's chance."

And what is worse, mamma's hopes of getting rid
of her by a rich marriage ; that is the worst part of
the business."

Not quite the worst," said Etta ; " how on earth am
I to face him in the morning ? you'll be in the schoolroom,
and so get out of it,  it will be so terribly awkward."


"Never mind," said Emma, who was of a tougher

nature than her elder sister  " never mind ; it will
be quite as uncomfortable for Mr La Touche. We
must all agree that we have had the nightmare.
Depend upon it, he'll say nothing,  horrid little
wretch ! "

This was perhaps the best light in which to view
the matter. Percival, although he adjudged himself to
have retreated with flying colours and all the honours
of w T ar, was still in a most perplexed condition of
mind when he laid his head upon his pillow.

He now saw, or thought he saw, through Mrs
Fanshawe's wiles. The sharp manner which she
evinced towards him in the presence of Lillian was
merely a blind to lull him into security after all ;
and, in spite of appearances to the contrary, she was
artfully endeavouring to entrap him into a marriage
with her eldest daughter  that was evident. The
motive, too, was to him so disgraceful. The money
was a sine qua non ; but it was more for the sake
of getting rid of an incubus than for even the
ostensible pride of establishing Miss Fanshawe, that
her mother, and possibly the family collectively, 
with the exception of the rector perhaps, and Percival
would not vouch for him, in spite of Mrs Kemble's
outburst,  would do all in their power to further
so desirable an event. The conversation of the young
girls convinced Mr La Touche that the subject had
been ventilated amongst them, and that without the
remotest appreciation of the honour which he firmly
believed would accrue to the family by such a stroke

of fortune as an alliance with himself would be. And
yet he had gone out of his way to seek Miss Fan-share
; and it was only by a wonderful accident of
chance that he was not at that very moment congratulating
himself upon being the affianced husband of
this  he would admit it  distinguished London-looking
girl.

The counsel which, it is said, comes with night,
now warned him to retreat while it was yet time ;
but a stronger and more potent reason brought Percival
to believe that Providence had at this issue
interfered in his behalf in bringing Willina Clavering
within his ken.

Those impudent hussies !  he thus apostrophised
them  his next-door neighbours, had unwittingly
let fall this crumb of consolation in his cup. Miss
Clavering had espoused his cause, and had, with intuitive
and delicate perception, discovered how well
informed and how agreeable in conversation he was.

o

This circumstance, he opined, was letting in the thin
end of the wedge in the most satisfactory style. Then
tossing his ruminations backwards and forwards, with
the refrain of to be or not to be, Mr La Touche fell
asleep, and dreamt of well-turned heads, intelligent
eyes, and lunatics, in one confused mass, till the
early hours found him awakening with a start, and the
name of " Willina " on his lips.

CHAPTEE IV.

PERCIVAL WAVERS.

Emma Fanshawe was right. Mr La Touche entered

l o

the breakfast-room on the following morning with an
air of the blandest tranquillity, stated that he had
slept most comfortably, and neither by word nor sign
did he evince the slightest consciousness of his experiences
of the previous night.

His position seemed to be a remarkably happy one ;
for Stephen always took his breakfast at the old rectory,
and in consequence of the absence of his incipient
rival, the elder brother seized the opportunity
to appropriate Miss Clavering and pay her the most
marked attention. This, as it happened, exactly
suited Miss Etta, who was thankful for any person or
thing that would divert Percival's recollection from herself,
for she was in momentary terror that some sarcastic
observation should be let fall from that gentleman
which might bear upon the conversation in which she
and her hardened younger sister had so lately indulged.

Mr La Touche was, however, either politic or merciful

 perhaps he was leavened with a mixture of both
these attributes  and so the young lady, after a few
moments of qualm, continued to preside at the 
with her wonted peace of mind.

One thing only caused Percival a tinge of regret ; it
was that he had announced his intention of proceeding
on his business tour on the day following his arrival
at Pinnacles, and his wish to call at Hunter's Lodge
either before or after his departure into a neighbouring
county. Mary Leppell had fixed the time for his visit
to Ely the ; and it was not, as we have seen, till after
these arrangements had been made, that he discovered
that Miss Fanshawe had left home, and was then a
guest of Mrs Leppell. Thus the precaution that he, in
his astuteness, thought he had taken to avert suspicion
as to the motives which prompted him to call at
Pinnacles, now served as a strong barrier to prevent
him remaining even a few hours longer in that abode.

Mrs Fanshawe and Mary Leppell both discerned
the finger of Providence in directing Mr La Touche
to offer his congratulations at Hunter's Lodge at so
auspicious a season ; and though neither of these ladies
gave expression to. their hopes or opinion on this head,
they both augured the most satisfactory results from
this happy combination of events.

Strangely enough, the rector, who was supposed to
be no authority on matters flirtation  to coin a word 
perceived Mr La Touche's attention to Miss Clavering,
and further, he bestowed a few moments' consideration
upon this matter. The outcome of his reflections im-vol.

II. E

pellet him to take his wife aside immediately after
breakfast, and enjoin her by no means to invite
Percival to extend his visit, or to encourage him to
remain at Pinnacles. "He cannot," Mr Fanshawe
added,  " he dare not go to the old rectory, even fora
meal, and I won't have him philandering here :
in fact, I shall be very glad to be quit of the whole
La Touche family, with the exception of Stephen, 
he's the best of the lot."

"Mr La Touche has not the slightest intention of
remaining here," said Mrs Fanshawe, in a mollifying
tone ; " he is going to Yarnee by the twelve o'clock
train."

I am glad to hear it," growled Mr Fanshawe ;
"this man is really dreadful, and now he is actually
making love to Miss Clavering. I should like to know
what Mr Glascott would think of such a thing ! "

Poor Mr Fanshawe ! in his solicitude for the stranger
within his gates, he was totally ignorant of the fact
that there were those of his household who were at
that moment rejoicing in the knowledge that this obnoxious
visitor would ere long be in company with
his own daughter, and that many of his friends were
beginning to regard Mr La Touche as a possible suitor
for that lady's hand : his wife, too, was ready to expedite
Percival's departure with something very like
a " God-speed." " Where ignorance is bliss," &c, &c.

Stephen La Touche came up from the old rectory,
but merely in time to go through the form of conversing
a little with his brother. He also privately concurred

in the opinion that Miss Fanshawe was the
attraction which led Percival to be so scrupulously
polite in the matter of offering his congratulations
at Hunter's Lodge ; and if his suspicions were correct,
it would be as well, that gentleman thought, to look
upon the gallantry Percival had displayed towards
Miss Clavering as merely an atonement for his disappointment
in not finding Miss Fanshawe at home. So
he talked with Percival in the manner that was usual
with him  carefully, however, impressing upon him the
impossibility of his being even seen in the vicinity of
the old rectory. It was no longer " Esperanza " for Mr
La Touche, for if he ventured within its portals, he
would certainly have to leave all hope behind him,
Mrs Kemble's intentions being of an avowedly sanguinary
nature, and it being reported, moreover, that she
was on the watch to execute them.

I shall write to Dr Williams to-day," Stephen
said, continuing the subject of poor Mrs Kemble, " and
if he can receive Aunt Arabella on the day after tomorrow,
I shall take her to his place at once : the
attendant, of course, will go with us."

And after that duty is accomplished," said Percival,
with a nonchalant air, " I suppose you will return
to London. You will, I should think, have some accumulation
of business to attend to."

I hope so," replied Stephen, cheerily, and with a
lamb-like innocence. " You may as well tell Marcia to
expect me in four or five days from this time. I suppose
your business will be concluded before I return,

as I am to finish my visit here as soon as I have placed
our aunt with Dr Williams."

Percival could not say. His business might detain
him longer than three days : he would, however, advise
his brother not to waste any more time in the
country. " After you have given up the old rectory,
and settled everything with our friend here "  alluding
to Mr Fanshawe, with a backward jerk of his thumb
" you will be home at once. Marcia wants you, for
we are going to have one or two dinner-parties. One
of them is rather of the shop : some French fellows
from Bordeaux, to whom the firm must do the civil.
Ta-ta," he continued, with an airy flourish of the
redoubtable umbrella, as he wended his way towards
J "hall door,'  "I have faltered my adieux to Mrs
Fanshawe and the ladies already : ta-ta, and don't
forget to come home as soon as possible. Think of
Marcia and the dinner-parties."

His last words were almost lost in the depths of the
one-horse fly which was to convey Mr La Touche to
the station. Stephen looked after him for a moment,
and then burst into a laugh. " Master Percival thinks
himself very clever, no doubt," he said to himself,
but I fancy I am a match for him. Still, I hope his
present errand may be successful ; I can afford to wish
him good-luck in that quarter."

Some hours afterwards, Stephen found himself in
Mr La Touche's study, making the final arrangements
for giving up the old rectory, and providing for his
aunt's ultimate removal. The rector had declared,

and with good reason, that it was positively dangerous
to allow Mrs Kemble to remain longer where she was
without some restraint ; and it was agreed that it would
be as well to despatch a telegram and summon Dr
Williams without delay. " Mrs Kemble has seen the
doctor, and likes him," Mrs Fanshawe said, "and I
think she would bear her removal better if that gentleman
were to come for her himself : it would take off
the appearance of everything being strange."

As the business proceeded, Mr Fanshawe could not
help admiring the humanity and generosity displayed
by the younger man ; and it was with the utmost sincerity
that he expressed a hope that the removal of
the patient would not terminate the acquaintance
which this short visit had so pleasantly matured into
a friendship betwixt him and the family at Pinnacles.
Stephen was given to understand, with more warmth
of manner than the rector was usually wont to display,
that whenever he should want a few days' change,
or should at any time come into Yarneshire on Mrs
Kemble's affairs, there would be always a place and a
welcome for him at Pinnacles Court.

Fortunately, Mrs Kemble had sunk into an apathetic
state when the day arrived for her removal from the
old rectory house. We all of us feel somewhat of
regret when leaving a locality wherein we have passed
a good portion of our time, even if the surroundings
and the experience of life therein have not always
been of the happiest kind ; but for this poor soul there
was little of remembrance and less of regret.

She was going, she said, where Stephen wished her
to go, and she felt sure that what he wished was the
right thing. This confidence caused her to accept
all that was proposed for her comfort in a spirit of
placid resignation, which, while it materially simplified
the necessary business consequent on removal,
had, besides, something in its expression peculiarly
touching. To the last it was evident that she had no
opinion of the attentions which the several members
of the Pinnacles household now bestowed upon her.
It was all very well," she remarked to her nephew,
as they sat together on the last evening of her tenancy
; " but why are these women so wonderfully
friendly all of a sudden, and just as I am going
away ? Miss Clavering has been kind from the very
first moment I saw her, and I am very, very sorry to
wish her good-bye.

It is only for a time, I know," the old lady continued,
after a short pause ; " and I won't make any
fuss when I leave, for the Pinnacles women might
think I am sorry to part with them, and that would
never do, for I am not sorry  not a whit, my dear."

Early on the day of her departure, Mrs Kemble
was particularly mysterious, and somewhat difficult
both to understand and to manage. She nodded her
head, shook that member at her nephew, shrugged
her shoulders, winked satirically, and went through
so many other minor gymnastics, that Stephen feared
these must be the precursory symptoms of another
outbreak, and so stood upon his guard.

However, when the men who had been employed
in packing such of the furniture as belonged to Mr
La Touche, previous to its removal to London, had
departed, the real meaning of these signals became
apparent. " Come here, Stephen," Aunt Arabella said ;
I want you to take this, and put it in a safe place.
I have been so alarmed lest some one should get it
from me when I was not  not  well. But I have
managed to keep it out of sight ; here it is ! " So saying,
she pulled a folded paper out of the depths of the
lining of her wadded foot warmer, and desired Stephen
to read it forthwith.

Her nephew, on looking through this document,
found it to be no less than Mrs Kemble's will, properly
written and executed some eight years back.
Her own small fortune of three thousand pounds,
standing in the consols, was left absolutely and entirely
to him, as also everything she might inheritor
become possessed of at the time of her death.

The young man remained silent, just pressing his
aunt's hand in token of his recognition and gratitude.
He was greatly touched, not only at this evidence of
her strong affection, but also at the tenacity with
which his relative had, in his interests, preserved this
will. No one, he felt sure, suspected its existence.

I knew you would come  in all my queerness I
felt you would come and see me. I have never forgotten
your visit to us at Heidelberg, and how you
defended me, boy as you were, from Kemble  never.
Now you see the will is quite regular  made out by

a first-rate lawyer. Mr Sever ne, who always took my
part, managed all the business for me. I want you to
observe that this will was made before I became
nervous and queer ; and to be assured that I have
never made any other, and I never intend to make
another, so you are quite safe, my dear."

But, aunt, I can't keep this will in my own
possession : it is very generous of you, but "

I understand  I know something of business.
Let Dr Williams and old Fanshawe, if you like, be
witnesses that I have made this will over to you.
They may, I should think, advise you to hand it to
some respectable solicitor. Mind, my dear, I had the
power reserved to me under my settlement to make a
will. I have good cause to remember that,  my husband
never forgave it ; indeed I owe much of the ill-treatment
I received to this cause. But my father
was so fearful lest even sixpence should go out of the
family. Money and greed  the La Touches have
always tried for the good things of the land, and
what has come of it ? Lunacy, quarrelling, and every
evil work. Stephen ! whatever you do, never
marry a near relation,  it's not natural, and never
was intended."

Three thousand pounds was hardly a sum large
enough to demand a clause reserving you the right of
making a will," returned Stephen. " Had you, may I
ask, any other prospects ? "

That's just it : our uncle, Mr Squash, was alive
when I married, and my father always believed that

he would leave his large fortune to be divided between
my brothers and sisters and myself. As it happens,
Mr Squash chose to make that horrid Percival his
heir, and he lived much longer than his friends
intended that he should live. Has he got the money ? "
inquired Mrs Kemble, turning round sharply. Everything
that alluded to Mr La Touche, even in the most
remote manner, always irritated her.

Oh yes," replied Stephen ; " perhaps it were better
so than that the property should be cut up into small
portions. Don't let us grudge Percival  he will be
none the better nor the happier for it."

That's a blessing," returned Aunt Arabella warmly.
Percival won't spend it, and perhaps he may die,
and then his money can be cut up and go among the
rest of the family. You see I have no other prospects,
and my small jointure will of course go to Mr
Kemble's relations at my death. They pray for
that event regularly every night, my dear. Here's
Miss Clavering ; now, do you go away  I want to
talk to her alone."

Dr Williams arrived in clue course, and after some
consultation, it was decided that the will in question
should be confided to the care of a firm of solicitors
whom he named. Shortly afterwards, Mrs Kemble,
with her attendant and Stephen, set out for her new
home ; and it is satisfactory to know that the poor
lady arrived safely at her destination, and took at once
pleasantly to all about her. She parted tenderly from
her nephew, but very quietly also ; assuring him that

he had done all for the best, expressing her conviction
that she was going to be very happy, and that in a
short time she would be perfectly well. So, for a
season, Aunt Kemble would probably cease to be a
source of anxiety to her relatives, and the family at
Pinnacles were well pleased that she had taken her
departure in peace.

It was with a light heart that Stephen returned to
pay the last part of his visit, which the ruthless
demands of business limited to three days. Now
that he had leisure to review his position, his spirit
was exercised more strongly than ever as to his
brother's real reason for appearing in the county, and
it was with great sincerity that he hoped Miss Fan-share
was the veritable magnet which had attracted
Percival from his own immediate sphere at this time.
If his suppositions were really correct, he would beneficently
wish the latter the most unbounded good-luck,
and was even willing to accord him an unqualified and
fraternal benediction.

In despite, however, of this magnanimity, a misgiving
would often crop up in Stephen's mind concerning
Mr La Touche's ulterior motives. He could
not forget how thoroughly this usually cautious and
wary individual had thrown off all reserve, and given
himself up, so to speak, to an unqualified admiration
of Miss Clavering, and that too from the first hour of
his acquaintance with the lady. Percival's evident
anxiety to get him to return home was also a subject
of wonder to the younger brother : it was all very

well to cite Marcia's dinner-parties as a raison d'etre,
but then, up to this time, Percival had generally
been indifferent as to whether his brethren were present
or not at the family state - feeds. There had
been occasions, indeed, on which, preferring candour
to compliment, Mr La Touche had averred that the
absence of Stephen from the festive board was a
matter of congratulation to himself and the company ;
but it must be conceded that this sentiment was
expressed at a season when Stephen emphatically
declined to take in to dinner the lady whom Marcia
had ordained that he should take in, and when this
recalcitrant action was stated to militate decidedly
against the order of procession.

Thus, after turning the matter over in his mind, and
failing to arrive at any conclusion, Stephen was fain
to trust to time, and resolved, like a sensible man, to
enjoy as fully as possible the few days that remained
to him of his visit to Pinnacles Court.

Percival, meanwhile, sped on his way, and soon
stood before the gate of Hunter's Lodge. It struck
him as he passed up the drive that the house and all
surrounding it appeared to be unusually quiet,  no
sounds of whoop and holloa, no signs of boys or
babies, and the door-step in front of the principal
entrance shining at the same time uncommonly clean.

The lawn was dotted here and there with hearth-rugs
and mats of every size and description, and a
frousy sotcpgon of the dust which had been recently
shaken out of these still pervaded the immediate

atmosphere. Almost every window in the house was
wide open, and the casements were utterly innocent
of either curtain or blind.

A tight-rope apparatus stretched out in the field
beyond the lawn seemed at first sight to indicate a
preparation for some acrobatic performance ; but just
as Mr La Touche was wondering what this might portend,
a huge substance was thrown across the rope,
and two men, furnished with bean-sticks, proceeded to
belabour the material until rolls and volumes of dust
concealed them from the naked eye.

Then it dawned upon Percival that this performance
of carpet-beating was one of the phases of a process at
that moment going on in full activity at Hunter's
Lodge. It was that feminine vernal saturnalia
known in the civilised world as the spring clean 
a rite from which all bipeds of the masculine gender
usually fly in terror and dismay as from a dangerous
epidemic, whilst wives and daughters and
female servants bear the brunt of the attending discomforts,
and revel and exult (it has been said) in
finding themselves in full possession of the field, and
in the utter exemption from molestation or interference
of any kind whatever.

Percival winced as, on approaching the house, he
distinctly recognised the clink of an iron pail-handle,
and a dim sound which announced an under-current
of scrubbing. " How unfortunate ! " he said to himself ;
there will be only a scrap-luncheon  boiled-beef and
bread, or some horror of the kind. I think I'll turn

back ; or no, better not  I may be seen from the meadow
there. I need not stay long : most likely, too, Mrs
Leppell will not be at home. Good gracious ! what is
that looking out at the window ? "

It was only Mrs Dabber the charwoman, who,
arrayed in the inevitable coal-scuttle bonnet of the
profession, and a canvas apron which enveloped her
from head to heel, hearing footsteps, had almost
thrown herself out at the hall window in order to
intercept or turn back any intruder who might seek
admission. A long boiled arm protruded itself at the
same time, and the soaked hand at its extremity
waved the insignia of the scrubber's calling within
a foot of Percival's hat.

What do ye please to want ? " said this apparition,
as the visitor, recovering his astonishment, fell back
some paces, and replied with the query, " Is Mrs Lep-
pell at home ? "

It's the spring clean, sir, and Mrs Leppell have
sent all the children out for a picnic, sir ; they have
been gone this two hours."

Is Mrs Leppell at home ? " demanded Percival,
loftily ignoring the previous information.

No, sir," returned the scrubber firmly, but tenaciously,
nevertheless ; " she have gone to the picnic
with the last lot of 'em."

Percival hesitated a moment, but true to the spirit
of contradiction, which was a component part of his
existence, he determined to enter the house, solely because
he thought he perceived a strong determination

on the part of Mrs Dabber to deny him admittance.
He therefore replied, " That is very strange, and Lady
Asher so ill ; surely she is not left alone ! "

Lady Asher is better, and she ain't alone, she have
got her maid," responded the scrubber, rising to the
emergency. " We are very busy, 'cause the Colonel
he have writ to say as how he'll be home tomorrow
night."

I've just come from Pinnacles Court," said Percival,
" so I had better see Mrs Prothero, as I have a
letter and a parcel from Miss Mary "

Oh, if 'e come from Miss Mary, that's different
altogether. I was told not to let in any callers on
no account. Wait a bit please, sir, and I'll open the
front door; it is kep' shut by reason of them dogs.
Most of 'em has gone to the picnic ; but Boxer, lies
about, and when a gets in, it's next to impossible to
drive un out again, sure."

Mrs Dabber sped to the hall door with some alacrity,
for it was quickly opened, and Percival entered.
After indicating a roll of matting as a convenient
place whereon he might sit, Mrs Dabber left the
visitor in possession, and set off on the ostensible
errand of seeking Mrs Prothero.

She could not have reached Lady Asher's room, for
the quick ears with which nature had supplied Mr La
Touche made him aware that to some person in close
proximity, although unseen, he was being reported asa
young man with a note from Miss Mary,  a would
come in," was added in a deprecatory tone.

What's he like ? " inquired a voice, which Percival
immediately recognised ; " it can't be Mr Clavering ?
besides, you know him."

Oh, laws, no, 'em  he ain't Mr Clavering ; but a
tidy little gent too  a says a comes from Pinnacles."

There was a slight rustle, and in another moment
Miss Fanshawe was shaking hands with Mr La Touche.

You are rather an unexpected Mercury," said the
young lady, her face flushed a little with surprise, and
perhaps, it may be added, with some disappointment ;
for it was usual for Mr Clavering to call after this
manner when Lady Asher's illness demanded frequent
inquiry. " We did not know you were in
Yarneshire."

I only arrived yesterday on my way to Bath, and,
having a few hours to spare, I went up to Pinnacles
to see my aunt before she leaves your neighbourhood,"
said Mr La Touche, with solemn assurance. " Your
parents have a large party in the house, and they
were kind enough to invite me to join them and stay
all night. Here are my credentials," and he handed
the note and a little parcel wrapped in silver-paper
to Lillian.

Thanks ; this is a fan which Mary walked off with
the other day. Won't you come in here till I see if
Lady Asher's sitting-room is in order ? it is our only
harbour of refuge during this turmoil." So saying,
she opened the door of the drawing-room and ushered
Mr La Touche into that apartment, which was just
recovering from an elaborate scrubbing, and redolent

of Bristol soap, furniture-polish, and all the other
olfactory concomitants inevitable to a spring clean.
A pronounced feeling of dampness and discomfort
made itself apparent and suitable to the occasion  so
much so, that Percival shrank together, and expressed
a fear that he should catch cold.

I won't be long," said Miss Fanshawe ; " I will just
speak to Mrs Leppell  she was with her mother a few
minutes ago : you had better stand in the verandah,"
and off she went before Mr La Touche could get in a
single word.

Mrs Leppell was rather pleased than otherwise
when she was told who the visitor was; and in the
belief that the visit of Mr La Touche was rendered
more on her young friend's account than on her own,
she at once decided to receive that gentleman. She
also opined that this was a most excellent opportunity
to bring these young people together ; and though she
did not much admire the man, she, like the rest of the
world, held his fortune in much esteem. Besides, it
must be remembered Lilian was the eldest of a tribe
of daughters, and it was her duty to marry a rich manif
she could get him, and her (Mrs Leppell's) duty to
render her aid in the quest. So with an earnest and
sincere desire to forward this event, Mrs Leppell went
by way of the garden to the drawing-room verandah,
and received Mr La Touche with a cordial smile of
welcome.

You find us in a most uncomfortable state," she
said, as she extended her hand to her visitor. " Come

into Lady Asher's room, and we can offer you some
lunch, such as it is."

Percival replied that he was delighted, and that
Colonel Leppell had no doubt evaded the horrors of
house-cleaning, adding that it was the first time in
his life that he had come in contact with the operation,
and that really it was not so bad as he had been
led to think.

This was intended for a compliment evidently, and
so the ladies bowed in recognition. " It is really
Colonel Leppell's fault that we have been obliged to
carry the operation through in so uncompromising a
manner," continued the lady of the house ; " we did
not expect my husband home for nearly a week yet,
and now he has written to say that he will be at home
late tomorrow night."

"And of course he expects everything to be in
perfect order and comfort," added Miss Fanshawe,
with a laugh.

There was something very taking and graceful about
this girl when she allowed her usually cold manner to
relax, and perhaps she never appeared to greater
advantage than when she was at Hunter's Lodge.
The position of being understood and appreciated has,
more or less, a beautifying effect on most young
people, and it was due to this that Miss Fanshawe
always seemed more animated and cheerful when
with the Leppells than at any other time.

We can never fully understand the mysterious
phases of fate and chance, any more than we can ex-vol.

II. f

plain the great injustices which are hourly occurring
in the world ; but it is probable that if Lillian Fan-share
had been the wife of Francis Clavering, she
would have been a bright and happy woman to the
end of her days, because she knew, and felt that he
would have known, that she was thoroughly suited to
him, and that in intellect and opinion and thought
they were as one.

Now this chance  the union of what Miss Fan-share
believed to be two kindred souls  had passed
away for ever ; and in the face of an uncongenial if
not an unhappy home, the young lady set herself
deliberately to win Percival La Touche, or rather,
perhaps, to accept him as the Charybdis into which
she must cast herself from the Scylla of her unrequited
preference for Mr Clavering.

Little dreamed he that at the best he was nothing
more than a pis aller in this girl's sight, but a pis aller
to which she must resort because she held no place in
her mother's heart, and was virtually without hearth
or home.

So, following the lead of her friend, Lillian was
unusually charming in her manner towards Mr La
Touche, and looked so cool and fresh withal, and
bantered with him in such easy graceful style, that,
with the strange inconsistency of the human mind,
Percival found himself hesitating as to whether or no
it would be as well that he should dedicate his allegiance
at once to Miss Fanshawe, and forego all further
attempts to bewitch Miss Clavering. Everything

seemed just then to foster this idea : the luncheon was
so good that it wellnigh worked the charm of reaching
the man's heart through his stomach ; the kindly unaffected
manner in which he had been admitted into
the privacy of this household ; the absence of all gone,
without descending to the borders even of familiarity,
all combined to press upon Percival the desirability
of improving his opportunities without loss of time.

He was further induced to this consideration by the
invitation which Mrs Leppell (in the interests of her
young friend) had given him to attend her daughter's
wedding when that event should take place. " She
would send Miss La Touche," Mrs Leppell said, " a
proper invitation when matters were arranged, and
she hoped that Mr Stephen would be also induced to
give them the pleasure of his company on that occasion.
Should she write ? or would Mr La Touche
undertake to bring his brother ? At any rate, Mary
and Mr Clavering, being with him at Pinnacles, would
very probably secure Mr Stephen themselves."

Percival inwardly resolved to put a spoke in this
wheel, but merely replied that he was quite sure they
would all be most happy to wait on Mrs Leppell ;
and then, luncheon being over, they strolled into Lady
Asher's little garden till the room should be arranged.

They had been there scarcely ten minutes when
Mrs Leppell found it convenient to fancy that she
heard Prothero's voice calling to her from within, and,
without waiting to satisfy herself, she turned and
went rapidly into the house. " I'll be back directly,"

she said, looking over her shoulder to Lillian ; " perhaps
you could show Mr La Touche Dick's game-fowls
: they are really beautiful birds, and are well
worth seeing."

To the fowl-yard they sped ; and with her nose dug
into the netting, Miss Fanshawe searched minutely for
Raleigh, reputed to be the gamest of game birds in
the whole county.

Mr La Touche approached a little nearer the lady,
with the view of being directed where to look for
this redoubtable warrior, and had got the length of
u Dear Miss Fanshawe," when a tread on the gravel
arrested his speech, and he just managed to add as he
looked round, " here he is," when an elderly gentleman
appeared in sight.

Miss Fanshawe never exactly knew whether the
lame conclusion of Percival's opening address applied
to the game-fowl or to Mr Glascott, for they both
appeared on the scene at the same moment : however,
as the latter was outside the netted inclosure, he
might, perhaps, be considered as having the advantage,
he not being in a state of semi-captivity.

Whatever Percival had intended to disclose was
certainly effectually quenched by the advent of the
human third party, who, after saluting Miss Fanshawe
with the graceful, old-fashioned courtesy, began to announce
his errand, as he took her hand.

Allow me to introduce you," said that lady with
the most enviable composure ; " Mr Glascott, Mr La
Touche." A bow, and a very ill-used-looking visage on

the part of Percival : this was entirely lost upon Mr
Glascott, who innocently regarded, his new acquaintance
as a young man possessing a most unfortunate
expression of face, and thought how good it was of
Miss Fanshawe to entertain him.

So it was rather with the opinion that he was doing
a fellow-creature a good turn that Mr Glascott
said : " It has occurred to me that you would like a
ride this fine afternoon ; suppose we go and meet the
picnic-party. We might take a canter round Firmly
Hill, and then escort the youngsters home in a troop.
I have just spoken to Mrs Leppell, and she thinks the
idea a good one, should you approve."

Miss Fanshawe agreed, remarking, notwithstanding,
that she was supposed to be helping Mrs Leppell in
the house, and that it would be rather selfish on her
part to ride away and leave her.

Mr Glascott combated this assertion by averring
that Mrs Leppell, whom he had just left, aided and
strongly promoted this suggestion.

Would you like to accompany us ? " asked Miss
Fanshawe, turning to Mr La Touche with a genial
smile.

Oh dear, no," replied Percival ; " very happy to
accompany you, of course, but horse exercise "

Oh, you don't ride,  I forgot," replied the lady ;
it's very unfortunate. Shall we find you here on our
return ? "

Percival understood from this that Miss Fanshawe
intended to take the ride, and excused her in his mind

upon the plea that she could not very well do otherwise.
At the same time, it having dawned upon his
perception that the late comer was Miss Clavering's
guardian, his manner suddenly softened, and he
replied 

My business matters are urgent, and only left me
time to come out here to offer my congratulations to
Mrs Leppell on her daughter's approaching marriage.
From what I have seen of Mr Clavering, Miss Leppell
seems to have been most happy in her choice."

Here Mr Glascott bowed, and relaxed his uncomplimentary
opinion concerning the personal appearance
of Mr La Touche ; and after a few desultory remarks,
they returned to the house. Percival took his leave ;
and Miss Fanshawe and her escort immediately set off
for a long afternoon's ride.

Colonel Leppell returned home, according to his
announcement, and Mary and Miss Clavering ended
their visit at Pinnacles Court. Miss Fanshawe remained
at Hunter's Lodge for the ostensible purpose
of cultivating a further acquaintance with the latter,
and she was present when a messenger from the firm
of Dupont brought the diamonds, arranged and set,
which were Mr Glascott's wedding-present to Mary
Leppell.

They were universally admired ; so much so, that
Mr Glascott, through the Colonel, sent the same number
of stones to be set in precisely similar form to
Mr Dupont, intending that parure to be a present to
Willina Clavering.

Francis Clavering was very much taken with Mary's
set ; at the same time, he remarked that the colour of
the stones did not appear to him to be quite so clear
as that of the unset gems.

The mounting may make a difference' said Miss
Fanshawe, who was examining them at the same
time.

Ah, yes, to be sure ; you put us all right," said
the young man, turning towards Lillian with a smile
of genuine approbation.

CHAPTER V.

SCIENCE AND CUPID.

At length all was satisfactorily settled : Colonel Lep-
pell and Mr Glascott had each dined in company
at the abode of the other, and Mr Clavering was now
a visitor at Hunter's Lodge, the acknowledged and accepted
suitor of Miss Leppell.

The usual amount of astonishment, expressed and
understood, went the round of the family acquaintance
as a matter of course. " ' Heavenly Moll ' to put up
with a simple gentleman, after all Ralph's bluster ! "
was the ejaculation of old Lord Hieover, after he had
twice perused the document which conveyed the intelligence,
in curt but respectful terms, to the lady's
grandfather. "Ralph is coming to his senses," remarked
the Colonel's brother Alick, as he digested the
news ; " rich noblemen are not so plenty, and the poor
ones look out for money. They have shown more
sense, the whole lot of them, than I imagined them to
possess."

The whole lot" meant the family at Hunter's Lodge,

severally and collectively, in the summary of this
relative. As to the Clavering connection, if that were
satisfied, it was well ; and if it were not, that was no
affair of the Honourable Alexander Leppell, who
averred, for his part, that he was truly thankful to
learn that a comfortable provision would be secured to
his niece by this contemplated marriage. Being thus
in a contented frame of mind, this affectionate uncle
at once penned a congratulatory epistle to Mary, in
which he wished her all manner of life's blessings and
good-luck. This being done, he mourned over the
fact that he would have to give the girl a decent
wedding-present, and eventually turned to smoke for
compensation and consolation.

Miss Fanshawe was now the only person to whom
this engagement did not give complete satisfaction.
True, she had promoted it to the best of her power ;
but her influence with Mary Leppell had only been
exerted after she had discovered that her own chances
of securing Mr Clavering's affections were utterly hopeless.
The result of this influence had convinced Miss
Leppell that she did possess sufficient regard for Mr
Clavering to warrant her accepting that gentleman asher
suitor. "Wise in her generation, and far-seeing
beyond her years, Lillian soon discovered that the best
method for retaining for herself influence and interest
with both these young people, was to act at once en
bonne princesse, and so earn the gratitude of, at least,
one of the benefited parties. That she did not (at that
time at least) seriously mean to displace Mary Leppell

in Mr Clavering's affections, is certain ; and had such
an idea been presented to Miss Fanshawe in a tangible
shape, no one would have more indignantly disclaimed
such an imputation. True, she was aware, and fully
aware (through that wonderful intuition which seems
to be a sixth sense in the feminine composition), that
whilst Clavering loved Mary with more of the meed of
affection, perhaps, than the ordinary run of men bestow
upon the betrothed, who, they know, will become
their wives in the conventional style of matrimony,
it was to her that he turned for companionship in intellect
; it was to her alone that his conversation was
directed, whenever his favourite science and its later
discoveries was the theme.

There came, too, with this, a perceptible softening
of manner and an unexpressed confidence in her sympathy,
which increased so steadily that it became at
length impossible for her not to be cognisant of the
fact that, had she met Mr Clavering before his introduction
to the Leppells, her good offices in urging her
friend to accept that gentleman's suit would have
been superfluous. " It is a great pity," she had once
gone so far as to admit to herself ; " he and I are just
suited. It can't be helped now. Let me enjoy his
society for a short time ; and when Mary is married,
I will take the first man that asks me. At any rate,
her home will be another place of refuge from Pinnacles."
So ran the current of Miss Fanshawe's most
secret thoughts at this time.

Those of Francis Clavering, if put into words, might

probably evolve thus : " Mary is no doubt lovely, and
my wife will be the most admired woman of the next
London season  Lord Hieover must take us to town
but I do wish Moll had more in her,  more education,
more love of science. Perhaps it will come. As
it is, she reminds me forcibly of Undine before her
soul came to her. Lillian Fanshawe, now, possesses
both beauty of mind and person, and is in all things
thoroughly practical. Why, why can't a man marry
two wives at once ? "

Here he stopped. Was not the breath of such an
idea rank treason to Mary ? Besides, had she not
been won with a wealth of affection and hard money
down ? Had he not, by unwavering persistence, for
love of her brought about a reconciliation between
two lifelong foes ? Was she not the olive-branch,
the tender white dove, the peace-offering and gift
given out of the hand of her father, and accepted by
his benefactor, who had forgotten insult and wrong
to place her honourably in his arms ? Was there not
something clue to Everard Glascott, the noble old
man who had done more for him in this matter than
had done, or would do, ten thousand of fathers for
their own sons ? " Stay  Lillian Fanshawe is the
friend of the Leppell side of the house, the especial
friend of Mary, the school - companion whom she
desires that I should admire and cultivate. Let
it be so : here is a case where a Platonic friendship
is perfectly admissible. Lillian is strong and
proud, and a woman is all the firmer friend

when one never has been, nor never can be, her
lover."

So thinking, Mr Clavering corrected a part of the
manuscript of his intended lecture, which, owing to
these reflections, was not distinguished for strict geological
reasoning. The importance of his subject at
this juncture impressed itself on his mind, and for
some hours he turned to work with that application
which alone can command satisfactory results.

When his task was completed, he carried it to
Lillian and requested her opinion on its merits. The
young lady was alone in the little drawing-room,
seated at the piano ; not playing exactly, but with
her right hand striking out strange minor harmonies,
more mournful than soothing, and looking over a
newspaper which she held in her left.

What ! doing two things at the same time ! " exclaimed
Frank as he entered. " This is not the
opportunity to enlist your sympathy, I fear, for I
came to inflict a third occupation upon you," and he
held out his manuscript as he spoke.

"Don't be too certain of that," replied Miss Fan-share.
" Look ; I was reading the review of your
pamphlet on the mosaic pavement found at Druni-
chester. I should much like to see the pamphlet
itself ; but as that is not within reach, I will take your
manuscript, and so run two occupations into one."

It is within reach," replied Mr Clavering decidedly.
I sent Mary a copy of it three weeks ago. Haven't
you seen it ? "

"No. Besides, no one in this house cares for
science, so you must expect that Mary will find all
matters appertaining to it a little dry. I daresay
the pamphlet can be found  unless, indeed, it has
been absorbed into Colonel Leppell's den. In that

case "

It will have made itself useful for lighting cigars
or rubbing the gums of a bull-terrier pup," replied
Francis, rushing to conclusions. " I'll go and ask
Mary about it at once. Do you know where she is ? "
Just out on the lawn there, mending targets and
shooting with the children."

Mr Clavering stepped out through the French window,
and looked towards the centre of the lawn. This
was bounded by a wire-fence which enclosed the
meadow which lay beyond.

A beautiful summer meadow, knee-deep in rich
grass, daisies, buttercups, quaking-grass, the rounded
crimson clover-flower, the tall bugle full in bloom,
powdered by the falling blossoms of the fading hawthorn,
showing still fair as it covered the floating
feather-grass,  all sweet things, soon to perish beneath
the mower's scythe, and leave only their subtle
perfume to tell that they once had been.

An enormous elm-tree flourished on the lawn, round
the trunk of which a seat had been fixed. Mary
Leppell sat like a May-queen beneath the branches
superintending the manufacture of a target, which
was at the bulging-out period of its formation. Dick
sat at her feet, a moving mass of twine, straw, paper,

paint, feathers, and all manner of rubbish. The
youngest infant was sleeping on a cushion, with the
drawing-room's best corvette spread over its face. Its
nurse, trusting to Providence, was away flirting with
a groom in the stable-yard enclosure ; and the penultimate
baby was busy trying to stick some honeysuckle
into the bull-terrier's ears,  all as happy as happy
could be.

"Mary  Moll  here; I want you a moment. I
can't come out, I am so busy," called out Mr Clavering,
quite in the tone of " the man in possession."

Away went the target, bull-terrier and child were
cleared at a bound, Dick was thrown prone to the
earth, as this gladsome, winsome thing flew past, and
only stopped to throw her arms round her lover's
neck. " It was so nice of you to call me like that,
Frank," said she. " I like it so much better than if
you had thought it proper to come to me. What do
you want, dear ? What can I do ? "

It was seldom that Mary had been so demonstrative.
A kind of sweet timidity, combined with the feeling
that she was not clever enough for companionship
with Mr Clavering, had often caused her to remain
within her delicate shell. In these days it frequently
occurs that young ladies of all ranks are too ready to
come out of their delicate shells to seek admirers 
going the whole pace, not meeting admirers half-way
even. Herein is the embryo from which the " girl of
the period " springs.

I hope you won't think me troublesome," Frank

said, as he drew the young girl close to him, "but
I want that pamphlet about the mosaic pavement
I sent you the other day. Can you put your hand
upon it ? "

"No, that I can't," replied Mary. " I just looked it
over after cutting the leaves, and saw it was something
about the Romans and their camps. You must
not mind  it's my ignorance ; but I really could not
read ten lines of it together, and I hoped you would
not ask anything about it."

"Very well, that's natural, you golden locks," answered
he, mollified by the honesty of this speech ;
but tell me, where did you put the pamphlet ? "

Let me think : the last time I saw it, it was on
the mantel-shelf in the nursery ; it may be there still,
as there are no fires to light now. But can't you get
another copy ? "

Yes ; but I wish, dear, you would try and interest
yourself in my writings just a little more. However,
I will go back to Miss Fanshawe now. I left her
reading my last effusions, and she must be tired of
them by this time."

They passed through the French window into the
room wherein Miss Fanshawe still retained the same
place and position. Instead of touching the piano,
her fingers were now busily employed in marking,
here and there, with various signs, portions of the
manuscript concerning which she would presently
have her say.

Oh, here you are ! " exclaimed Mary, coming close

to her friend. " Frank has shown his sense in giving
you his performances to look over. Is this easier than
the pamphlet ? " inquired she, as she looked towards
Mr Clavering.

It is quite a different thing," replied that gentleman.
"Never mind about the pamphlet  I can do
without it."

He had not deemed it necessary to state that this
emanation of his brain was required solely for Miss
Fanshawe's delectation, and, in order to check further
remark or inquiry, he plunged into the subject of his
article. Lillian saw, at a glance, that the pamphlet
was not forthcoming, and maintained a silence which,
to Clavering, was as intelligible as uttered speech.
She looked straight into his eyes, and all was said.
You need not have troubled yourself,  I could have
told you that the book was either in the fire or in the
dust-hole. Depend upon it, you throw away your
glory in this direction." All this the mute intelligence
of Miss Fanshawe's eyes conveyed to the sense
of Francis Clavering.

Mary went back to her brothers, rather thankful
to leave these two to their own devices ; and these
two talked and read, and comported themselves
generally, as if some secret understanding existed
between them, the nature of which they neither
wished nor cared to analyse. So sped on the afternoon
of this summer day till evening fell.

And Mary, " heavenly Moll," fresh, true, and innocent,
without an arrive pense in the world concerning

anybody or anything,  was her spirit disturbed, or
did any apprehension agitate her breast, as she saw
daily the intercourse between her lover and her friend
assuming a more exclusive character, and found also
that the nature of their conversation was often such
as to preclude her from taking any part in it ? Not
in the least. Loving Clavering as she did, with calm,
honest affection, and reverencing his talents as if he
were almost a deity to be worshipped'  above all, unconscious
of evil, it was almost impossible that the
demon of jealousy could invade a heart crystallised
in its own purity, and at the same time too proud,
perhaps, to entertain a single envious thought.

To have secured the affection of this brilliant man
was a special blessing in this young girl's eyes, and
the position of becoming his wife was, in a great
measure, not only a source of self-congratulation, but
somewhat also of wonder and astonishment.

The advanced arts were little known and less appreciated
in Miss Leppell's immediate family, and thus it
was to her as if one of the wise men of Greece, or
Solomon himself, had alighted at her feet when Clavering
made his marriage proposals for her to Colonel
Leppell. This man, with whose name all the scientific
world was ringing, who lectured here and lectured
there, whose presence frequent telegrams from all parts
of Great Britain were constantly soliciting, and upon
whose opinion many members of the scientific world
based their conclusions, this man was indeed unto
her the personification of one who had eaten of the

VOL. II. G

apple of Eden, and thus held the knowledge of good
and evil  and lived.

No wonder, then, that, cherishing such opinions,
Miss Leppell found much satisfaction in the fact
that Frank could meet with a congenial mind in
the society of her friend, Lillian Fanshawe, and so
enjoy a literary symposium which her own humble
intellect could neither grasp nor fathom. Had Mary
Leppell at that time been capable of feeling and
evincing an alarmed jealousy, strange to say, many
bitter pangs in after-life would have been spared her.
Concerning what she believed to be friendship, arising
from love of herself, on the part of Francis and Lillian,
no suspicion nor anxious thought ever entered.

There was one person, however, who viewed the
march and exclusiveness of this friendship with a
surprise which soon turned to apprehension, if not
to positive alarm. What can escape a mother's eye ?
Mrs Leppell had, on more than one occasion, fancied
that the deference which Mr Clavering paid to her
daughter's friend was rather more tender than is
customary in the case of a man who is affianced to
a lovely girl  so lovely that she might command any
number of admirers, and those, too, of the highest
status " in society. Mrs Leppell, to do her justice,
bravely put back her suspicions at the outset, and
communed from a commonsense point of view with
her perplexed spirit.

Is this girl not Mary's early friend ? " argued she ;
and was not Mary so anxious that Lillian should be

invited to remain here during Mr Clavering's stay
in the neighbourhood ? Above all, did not Lillian
urge the match when my daughter was wavering, and
even reluctant ? "

Thus the good woman reasoned her fears away.
One problem, however, persistently haunted her, nor
could she find any clue towards its solution. If Miss
Fanshawe were not so attractive in person as well as
learned in mind, would Francis Clavering be at so
much trouble in fetching and carrying little lumps
of granite, and goodness knows what other lumps
besides these, and weighting the pockets of his
shooting-coat with knobs of stone, and little hammers
wherewith to smash them up, and all for Lillian
Fanshawe's opinion thereon ? He apparently, also,
felt no qualms whatever in striding about the country
with a faded green-baize ba over his shoulder, in
which Dick Leppell (Clavering's boy-friend in the
family) averred that he kept all kinds of wonderment.


One fine morning Mrs Leppell watched the pair,
as, with this green bag on the floor, a lump of gneiss
and a work on geology in their hands, they sat at a
small table in the deep recess of a window, and
expatiated upon something unusual or peculiar in
the conformation of the specimen which lay before
them.

Mrs Leppell was occupied in dusting and arranging
the remains of some very valuable and much-cracked
and much-mended old china,  a remnant that had

survived the successive tornadoes in the Leppell
drawing-room, when the Colonel had thought fit to
expedite the departure of children or dogs by hurling
anything that came to hand in the air, and hurling
it regardless of direction. (It was only a year before
that old Lady Asher had escaped being brained by
throwing herself flat on the hearth-rug, and thus
allowing a good-sized musical-box, aimed at Fritz,
to pass over her head and crash into an Indian bowl.)
Some jars, a few good plates, and a pilgrim's bottle,
were now the only sound representatives of what had
originally been a fair collection of china.

But it was the cracked little cups, and the mutilated
little monsters, and the egg-china of Japan,
to which the soul of Mrs Leppell clung. A niche
mounted with shelves, and lined with blue velvet,
was now the sacred tomb of these relics; and it
was with a sort of tremor lest in these she should
find evidence of a recent spill, or of coming to pieces
in the hand, for which no one but the cat could or
would be accountable, that Mrs Leppell proceeded to
inspect these relics.

Standing at this shrine, Mrs Leppell thus came in
for the full benefit of the geological discussion ; and
further, for convincing herself that no shadow of
suspicion nor anxiety had entered her daughter's
mind, for Mary was now in the room, and was making
merry at the expense of the two students anent
their devotion to geology.

Oh, that is the little hammer, is it, with which you

go about the country smashing up the stones and
breaking rocks to smithereens ? " said Miss Leppell,
trying to speak with sarcasm. "You might set up
for an auctioneer, Frank, and so successfully combine
two businesses. What is this ? and this ? " inquired
she, as she dived into the green-baize bag and brought
out two or three specimens. " Do enlighten my ignorance.
Which is pudding-stone ? "

"Not a specimen of it here, dear," replied Frank.
Here is a pretty bit, and the name of it is not difficult
 mica."

The mother watched from the plate she was holding
up to the light. " Lillian looks as if she did not
like the interruption," thought she. " I don't know ;
she is making room for Mary to be seated. I am
wrong after all."

She was right and she was wrong, both at the same
moment. Miss Fanshawe had perceived Mrs Leppell's
eyes looking over the plate, and she thereupon executed
the piece of generalship which had discomfited
her hostess. No electric light could have flashed
intelligence more thoroughly. Miss Fanshawe, sweet
and calm, read as from an open book the meaning
of Mrs Leppell's presence there, and very much also
what was passing in the mind of that lady. So she
put into force that sleight of action which is vulgarly
called " throwing dust into people's eyes."

Now that we have got Mary captive, let us give
her a first lesson in geology, Mr Clavering," said she ;
or better, do you teach us both. I am only in the

primer myself, as you know, and at the stage wherein
a return to first principles would be a step in the
right direction. You should try and learn a little
about the matter, dear," continued Miss Fanshawe,
with the air of a matron of forty, "for you will intime,
I daresay, have to copy out Mr Clavering's
lectures for him ; and it would be so much easier for
you if you understood a little of the subject. Don't
you agree with me ? "

I would get through any quantity of writing or
copying or anything else for Frank that I can do,"
was the reply ; " but these stones, and their names,
and where they come from, I really do not care about,
nor never shall. I prefer things which grow on the
earth, you know, and something that has life,  flowers
and fruit, and something that can return one's regard ;
the pony  my dear doggie,  they are far nicer thana
pack of stones."

Francis looked very significantly at Lillian during
this peroration. If the look may be interpreted, it
meant to say, " Do you hear that ? flowers and the
dog preferred to my objects of study and interest ;
only listen to the crass frivolity which these remarks
exhibit." The mother caught the look, and from sheer
nervousness rattled her plate against the head of a
shaky little bonze. Her feeling, this time, was that
of indignation against Miss Fanshawe, because she
remained as impervious to this look as did the wall
behind her. Not a sign made she that she had even
observed Mr Clavering, and Frank on his part felt

sure that his significant expression had fallen unheeded
into space.

Such telegraphic intimations are seldom repeated,
and Mr Clavering turned without remark to the first
pages of the work before him and began to point out
the illustrations which adorned it, and to pronounce
distinctly the names of the substances to which the
drawings referred.

Mrs Leppell was further aggravated when Lillian,
after looking at the lovers for a moment with an air of
approbation, rose from her chair with the utmost
deliberation, and walking straight towards the niche,
inquired in a sweet cool manner if she could assist her
hostess in arranging or dusting the precious china.

Mrs Leppell for a moment felt inclined to refuse
the proffered aid, and that somewhat sharply, but a
glance at the recess mollified her as she beheld Mary
in her legitimate place, leaning on Clavering's shoulder,
whilst he twisted a strand of her long bright hair round
a piece of malachite stone, and thus held the young
lady fast.

So the mother waxed gracious and replied, " I have
nearly finished now ; but I would be glad if you can
suggest any plan for mending this crack before it
becomes a fissure. I am tired of diamond cement,
for, to say the truth, I have never been able to make
it serviceable."

"when a thing becomes thoroughly cracked and
tarnished, I give it up for good," replied Miss Fan-share
; " but I am no authority on these matters, as

I infinitely prefer the beautiful china of modern
manufacture. After this confession, will you trust
this cup to me when I go to town ? There is a shop
in Regent Street where they mend these things in a
professional manner."

Mrs Leppell replied that "of course she would,"
and her late apprehensions were further quenched as
she heard Mary call out, " Come back, Lillian ; this
wicked fellow, this scientific deceiver, is teaching me
all wrong. He is trying to make me call this lump
Nice ' (gneiss), as if I did not know that Nice was in
France."

"It ought to be pronounced ms" returned Miss
Fanshawe, with decision, "as you would pronounce
the German word mein."

Francis admitted that she was right. " He wanted,"
he said, " to bring Mary nearer the pronunciation by
naming a town which must be familiar to her. At
any rate, Miss Leppell had the satisfaction of seeing
him discomfited by her friend, and now we will go to
work in earnest." He added, " Take this gneiss ; here
is the illustration, here is the specimen. I want you
to learn a little, Mary," he said impressively; "for
'heavenly Moll' will have to grow older, just as other
earthly angels have done before her, and I wish my
little girl to be a highly educated as well as a pretty
woman."

There was just a tinge of reproach in Mr Clavering's
tone of voice which exasperated Mrs Leppell. " He is
bitten with this education craze for women," thought

she ; much good may it do him. Again Lillian threw
soothing oil over the changeful chopping waves of Mrs
Leppell's soul, as she declared that the very look of
scientific names, especially those of geology, were
enough to scare the strongest-minded female from
approaching that study. "You learned folks," continued
Miss Fanshawe, turning towards Mr Clavering,
always expect too much from the mere outsiders of
science ; ordinary mortals cannot attain knowledge
by intuition. I shall horrify you dreadfully by-and-by,
and then Mary will have the laugh at me."

Let us hasten the fulfilment of that prophecy by
all means," returned Mr Clavering. "Just now, I
should be more than obliged if you will classify these
specimens according to this list, and affix the proper
labels upon them. I want them to be ready for my
lecture at the School of Science at Birmingham."

Will you have to go soon ? " inquired Mary. " I
do hope you will not be away on Tuesday, for Fritz
and I have been planning out a riding picnic to
a place which is ' rich in geological formations,' as
your scientific books have it, and where you can
hammer at the places to your heart's content, as I
have it."

Much obliged ; my lecture is set down for Thursday
in next week. I follow Professor Deepdene, who
reads a paper on the Pleistocene formation. I shan't
leave to hear him, for I don't agree with his views
altogether," continued the young man, sententiously,
"so it is not likely that Deepdene will add to my

knowledge very much, as he is obstinately wedded to
his own opinion."

Professor Deepdene ! " exclaimed Mary. " Why,
Frank, I have often heard him spoken of as being
one of the most scientific men of the age. Yes; he
was clown here a year ago to speak at a meeting of
the Margarine Society, and he stayed with those fussy
gossiping Braintrees. I was so sorry for the old gentleman,
because that impudent Sarah Braintree never
rested till she dragged him all the way up the Cathedral
tower stairs, to enjoy the view at five in the morning.
How I abhor that girl ! and I daresay the
Professor did too ; but perhaps we do not refer to the
same man."

"Yes, we do," returned Clavering, coolly. "Deep-done
is just the man to be victimised by an awful girl,
because he has not the savoir faire to evade unwelcome
feminine attentions. I heard of his having been down
here when I was in Etruria, and also that he played
Triton amongst the minnows with great success ; still
he does not progress with the age."

Progress with the age ! do the stones and the
gneiss and the malachite progress with the age ?
Ah ! " cried Mary, " it would be good for large
families if the pudding-stone were to evolve into
good solid pastry, apples and all. How the housekeepers
would reverence pudding - stone then ! Eh,
mother ? "

Mrs Leppell was approaching the trio, and Frank,
in consequence, restrained an expression of impatience

which was hovering on his lips. He was silent for
another reason also : it was astonishment to find that
Mary was capable of apt and ready repartee.

You are all apparently going to be busy for this
lecture, I see," Mrs Leppell said ; " I only come to
warn you that if any of you want a horse for the
afternoon, you had better secure it now. Colonel
Leppell, for some unknown reason, has lent the best
horses in all directions ; but Mysie, Dick says, has been
left, and one of the ponies, which either of you young
ladies might ride. What do you say, Mr Clavering ? "

Secure and ride Mysie, by all means. This will
be a splendid afternoon in which to go over to Dike's
Folly. "What do you say, Moll ? I want to examine
the crags there, only I am afraid it will bore you. It
will be hard on you, so much ' dry work ' in one day,
so name your own road."

You never bore me," the girl answered simply ;
but I won't pretend to take an interest in what does
not please me for its own sake. I won't ride this
afternoon, for mother requires my help, and Dike's
Folly is newer to Lillian, and a ride is such a treat to
her. Another time I will take you a ride of my own
choosing, and in that direction when the gipsies camp
there again, and you can have the benefit of having
your fortune told into the bargain. I should like to
hear a gipsy prophesying smooth things to you, Frank,
out of the stones," and she rocked his shoulder gently
as she spoke.

If you were a stone, you would evolve at once into

an angel were a fairy to touch you," replied Francis,
as he turned back his head and looked at this charming
creature. "We will go gipsying some day, with a
vengeance. Now, I would really be glad to examine
these crags scientifically, so much will turn on that
Birmingham lecture ; and as Miss Fanshawe is really
interested in the science, I should be grateful for a .
 Will you honour me, Miss Fanshawe ? "

Certainly," replied that lady, in a matter-of-fact
tone ; " and you make it the more complimentary by
accepting me as a substitute for Mary."

I begin to feel as if I were a rose between two
thorns," replied Mr Clavering, laughingly.

Well, don't prick yourself any longer," exclaimed
Miss Leppell ; " hear a little domestic fact. Papa and
the cook had a difference of opinion this morning, and
papa is on the war-path and on the other side of the
county by this time, I daresay; so you will be two
dear people if you will take yourselves out of the way.
Mother and Clara and I must do some domestic work,
for, as ill-luck will have it, the Eose Prims are coming
to dinner. Mother did not like to mention this ; now,
do you understand ? "

CHAPTEE VI.

A COUNTRY WEDDING.

I understand that the cook has caused a revolution
in the establishment," Mr Clavering replied, in
answer to the query which Miss Leppell had put, in
so searching a manner that he felt his powers of intuition
to be decidedly challenged ; " but which else
is the matter ? "

The Colonel, of course," replied that gentleman's
daughter; " he is always 'the matter' in this household.
He tramped through the kitchen this morning when
the maids were at breakfast without knocking at the
door, and desired cook to get some blue-stone for one
of the horse's backs, and to look sharp and find it, in
his usual peremptory manner, I daresay."

ISTo doubt of that, I should imagine," remarked
Colonel Leppell's intended relative with a laugh.

Cook," went on Miss Leppell, " stuck to her seat,
and informed the Colonel that she was not a black
slave, and furthermore, that she was not accustomed
to allow people to come into her kitchen wearing

muddy boots and spurs, and without their first knocking
at the door for permission to enter ; whereupon
papa swore at her "

I'll be bound he did," interrupted Mr Clavering.

Well, cook immediately gave notice of instant departure,
adding (and this was the sting in the bee),
In future, Colonel, I intend to live where my soul is
attended to.' "

That, after family prayers and your father's expounding,
was really too bad," Frank made reply.
He had attended one or two of these matutinal
assemblages by especial request, and had gone near
to quarrel with Colonel Leppell because he held
different views from that officer concerning the length
of the Musical day. As this opinion had furnished
a pretext for the Colonel to preach on the first chapter
of Genesis, Mr Clavering had, as the effect of that
exposition, elected to think and to speak sarcastically
of his future father-in-law's theology ; so he
said 

"I suppose cook has never had the good fortune to
be made the object of any special preachment, as I
have been, consequently she may think that her soul
was lost sight of entirely. But, seriously, cannot you
put off the Eose Prims ? "

Why, no," answered Mrs Leppell; "they have only
lately become our tenants, and Mr Eose Prim is willing
to allow some of that stuff which is good for
horses to be sown in the fields on the little farm down
near the river. This, of course, is a convenience tous

; but I don't think, socially, that they will be any
acquisition."

"Mr Prim grunts when he speaks, and the wife
makes one's back ache to look at her," quoth Mary.

Mrs Eose Prim is an uncomfortably good woman,"
said Mrs Leppell. " She means well, but she has
offended my children by calling this place ' Scamp
Covert,' and still more deeply, by forbidding her son
to play with our boys."

That precious young Measley ! " exclaimed Dick,
who had entered the room unperceived and in time to
supply some valuable information.

What about Measley ? " said Frank. " Is he a
1 prim ' in the uncomfortable sense of the word ? "

Worse," replied Dick ; " he is a cowardly little
beast. However, I got hold of him last week down
at the Swallow's ford, and collared him tight."

Did you choke the little wretch ? " asked Mary.

"No ; but I held his head close to a stone just underwater
till he kicked again. When he had had enough
I whacked him, and made him swear by the bones of
our old Ponto that we are the best-behaved family on
the face of the earth, and that it is balm in Gilead to
hear the governor vociferate in the hunt."

Dick, for shame ! " exclaimed his mother ; " had
I known that, I should have been very angry with
you."

But you see you didn't, ma ; and, besides, there
was nobody there but our two selves. I frightened
Measley properly, but I did not really hurt him ; and

I was "good enough to tell him that when we asked
him to play with us again, he could refuse. The
little beggar has been very civil ever since."

What brings you in here at this time, Dick ? " inquired
Mary.

Only to know about Mysie," the lad replied. " It
is a whole holiday to-day, so I have nothing particular
to do. If any of you want Mysie, I will groom
her and take her down to the laundry."

Take her down to the laundry," repeated Mr
Clavering, looking up from his specimens ; " what on
earth for ? "

Why, you see," exclaimed Master Dick, " the
governor may pop back, and he may not. If he
returns, the first thing he'll do will be to go at once
to the stables : then if his eye falls on a decent-looking
beast, he is safe to want it."

What has that to do with the laundry ? " asked
Frank.

The laundry is a sort of old cottage among the
laurels there, and it has a coal-place into which a
moderate-sized horse will just fit. When we want to
secure a beast for ourselves we take it down there,
and pop a large clothes-rack full of sheets in front of
the opening. Fritz knocked in a ring to tie a creature
to ; but a vicious mare ate up a lot of washing
things one day  didn't she, ma ? "

Yes ; and a fine state of annoyance the laundry-maid
was in. I am sure the servants are very good-natured,
for they put up with so much from you boys,

and never complain of you to your father," said Mrs
Leppell.

Oh, they like to be teased  at least the maids do,"
quoth Dick. " I wish the Colonel had not offended
the cook, though, for though she did flare up at times,
she always had a bit of tart or something nice to give
us : but we will never keep a decent servant as long
as the governor lives."

Will you go and see after Mysie at once ? " said
Mrs Leppell, with the view of cutting Master Dick's
comments short. " I suppose," she continued, " the
ponies are left."

Oh yes ; pa would not condescend to look at them,
so they may remain where they are. I may perhaps
give them a touch," continued Dick, patronisingly, and
then he went off to help the groom.

The morning hours went by ; assistance had been
procured from the village, and Mrs Leppell breathed
more freely.

The Colonel, happily, did not return ; and after one
of those comfortable scrap-luncheons, which, if encountered
impromptu, form one of the most enjoyable
of our repasts, the equestrians went forth.

Looking approvingly at the pair as they rode away,
Mary Leppell thanked her stars that her friend had so
decided a bent towards geology, and further, that she
did not mind riding an unkempt-looking pony, and
was never tired of Frank's scientific talks. So she,
after standing for a moment in the porch, re-entered
the house satisfied and content.

VOL. II. H

"What a comfort Lillian will be to me in the
future," thought she.

So days and hours sped away, and then came the
short-lived bustle of wedding preparations, and finally
the wedding-day itself. It was a quiet, elegant affair,
its great charm being that nothing was overdone, and
the absence of all pretension seemed to make everybody
happy and at their ease. Old Lord Hieover, at
the eleventh hour, elected to be present : this, it was
alleged by his son, the Colonel, was in consequence of
no pressure having been brought to bear upon the
Viscount concerning his opinions or intentions on the
matter. " My father will come, or he will stay away,
just as it may please him," Ralph had said to his
wife ; " he has had a respectful invitation, and there's
an end of it. But I forbid you or Mary to write again,
or make it a matter of the slightest consequence
whether the Viscount puts in an appearance or not."

"Mary had, a very nice letter from your brother
Alick only last night," said Mrs Leppell, " apprising
her that a parcel is on the way here containing her
wedding-present from him. He seems to be very
unwell, and I think he is really sorry he cannot be
present at the wedding."

The gift arrived in the shape of a magnificent lace
veil, and within the packet was a little fancy purse
containing fifty sovereigns. " Now, after this," Willina
Clavering had remarked, "never do you call your
uncle mean or close-fisted." Mary laughed and sighed,
and finally wore the veil with her bridal attire, to the

immense delight, as she afterwards was informed, of
Uncle Alick, the donor.

The Viscount did come, as has been stated, and
brought a handsome silver tea-service in his train for
the bride. The old gentleman was greatly delighted
at his own perspicacity in being the first of the family
to seek the acquaintance of Mr Clavering, and he took
care to make Mr Glascott aware of the fact. " Saw
from the first, sir," he averred to that gentleman, 
saw from the first what was in Mr Clavering : recognised
his talent, and made a point  a special point 
of having him at Hieover, sir. A rising man, sir 
will make his own way in the world ; and, above all,
he will bring practical ideas into the family."

And then he turned to lovely Mary, as she came
to greet him in affection and duty, before she was
led out from her father's house to be made a wife.
grandpa ! " she exclaimed, " what a pleasant
surprise you have given me ! I am so glad to see
you,  my wedding will now be quite perfect. I am
so happy now."

It was a pretty sight, the bride standing on the
landing-place in the sheen of satin and the shimmer
of pearl, extending her arms to the old man, and the
bridesmaids trooping from out the chamber behind
her, all clad in innocent white, to which their own
fair young beauty lent an additional charm. Lillian
Fanshawe, unusually pale, but with a presence that
was almost imperial, was looking her very best, and
stood in fine relief to Willina Clavering, in whom

pleasure and satisfaction showed themselves in the rich
red of her smiling lips, and the soft healthy tinge of
her cheek. Then the little troop of Leppell sisters,
small and large, radiant in the good looks which, the
tradition of many years informs us, were bestowed by
the beneficent fairies for ever on all the race of the
house of Hieover, and to which satin ribbons and
muslin dress and sweet blush-roses lent their added
charm, contributed a most effective body-guard.

Nor would it be fair to pass over the dogs' part in
the family grouping : for at Hunter's Lodge these
people  yes, they are people  formed a very component
item in the establishment. They were there
loved for their own sake, just as so many of us like
them for sake's sake ; and in that home they sympathised
in the joys and mourned the sorrows of
their owners, just because the opportunity to do so
was afforded them, and therefore these persons were to
be remembered on Mary's wedding-day.

The redoubtable bullterrier pup careered in the
flower-beds, arrayed in a white satin ruff which had
been stitched upon him, and which he was popularly
supposed to have devoured half an hour after his
toilet had been completed, and when he had received
the last finishing-touch from Dick Leppell's
hair-brush. The ruff was never seen again; but what
did it matter ? he was so happy. " He knows all about
it," quoth the lad ; " he knows it's Mary's wedding-day,
bless you ! "

Then the Skye-terrier, who also knew all about it,

was outwitted with a white satin bow as big as a pancake,
and stood half the day besides on his hind legs,
begging for the bridal cake which nauseated him ; and
the great collie-dog, with her dear soft eyes, was allowed
for the first time in her life to walk up-stairs
to visit "our heavenly Moll," and to be made lucky
for ever from the first pat of a girl in her wedding-dress
 when the sun was shining fair.

Very trivial, and very small, these innocent conceits
may appear to some of us ; but oh, when the sharp
rain of disappointment pelts its hail into our cup of
life, and when the chilling mists of disillusion breathe
their tarnish on the golden bowl, then do these little
incidents return to remembrance : and if the wedding-day
must be recalled as the first act of a lifelong
mistake, be assured that, even amid regrets and tears,
these fond conceits will evoke a smile, and go far,
perhaps, to soften the bitterness which blighted prospects
may have unconsciously called forth.

And, after all, we are mostly very jealous and very
tender of those conceits which are purely the emanations
of a great love towards ourselves. Mary Leppell
never forgot the trouble the boys had taken to get the
family pets trimmed up for her wedding-day. Every
horse in the stable, too, underwent an extra grooming,
and there was general rejoicing inside and outside the
gates of Hunter's Lodge ; and even poor stricken Lady
Asher struggled up from her pillows, and insisted
upon being covered with some kind of festive array.

I am not going to resign my place," said the

Viscount to the Colonel, as he conducted his granddaughter
to the foot of the staircase where Ralph
was standing to receive her. " Let me take the child
to church," the old man continued, in a beseeching
tone ; " I have a fancy to do so. Remember it was at
Hieover that these young people first met,  I introduced
Mr Clavering myself to Mary."

Colonel Leppell hesitated a moment : in his heart
of hearts he very much objected to bestow his
daughter on Mr Clavering, for he disliked the
match, and he disliked the connection fully as
much. The whole thing and its manner of coming
about was repugnant to him, and he had only yielded,
as we know, from force of circumstances.

His hesitation proceeded partly from surprise, partly
also from some apprehension as to how this would appear
in the eyes of the world, and of Mr Glascott. A
moment's reflection, however, decided him on the last
point: he would get Adelaide to tell the latter that
he could not find it in his heart to refuse an old man,
and his own father, a gratification upon which he was
resolutely bent.

Mr Glascott would appreciate filial respect  which
was true enough; and he would also appreciate the
Viscount's offices in giving Miss Leppell to his cousin 
which was untrue enough : all that Mr Glascott really
cared for was that Francis Clavering should obtain
the wife of his choice, by respectable means of course,
and in the conventional manner of society in general
that was enough for him.

Do, papa," said Mary ; " and mamma will be so
pleased if you will give your arm to her. Then you
can walk next after us, and it will be all the same
thiner."

This was arranged, and the procession set forth, filing
through the garden, down the meadow, afoot, for it
would have been affectation to have had carriages for
so short a distance, and in the glorious weather,
moreover, of midsummer day.

Marcia La Touche's rich dress of pea-green silk,
whereon was depicted a lattice-work upon which
climbed gorgeous birds of every shape and hue, formed
a brilliant contrast to the simple colours and white
dresses adopted by the younger ladies, and provided
at the same time a curious ornithological study to
Mr Glascott, who walked behind her, conveying Mrs
Canon Braintree on his arm.

That lady was arrayed in violet silk, and looked
well ; but she had her troubles in a vain attempt to
reduce to order a peculiarly unmanageable feather,
which art had placed in her bonnet, but which
nature, in an unhandsome freak, would persist in
sweeping over her brow and occasionally dipping
into her eye.

Mrs Braintree, goaded to desperation, at length bent
the ornament in twain, and so it hung at the side of
her head, with that unhappy expression which a
damaged feather, in whatever form, always manages
to present to the gaze of a beholder. However, it did
not signify, as no human being living had ever known

Mrs Braintree in a perfect toilet, although her
raiment was generally good of its kind, and she spent
more money upon it than did many a fashionable
woman of her standing and pretensions.

Percival La Touche, carefully excluded, through Miss
Clavering's management, from the ranks of bride-men
and bride-maids, escorted Miss Braintree, at which
arrangement neither of the pair seemed to be particularly
well pleased. However, they had the consolation
of knowing that this forced propinquity was
not for life, and they therefore accepted the situation
as their trial pace, previous to a ceremony in which
each of them hoped and intended to act as principal
performer at no distant date.

The church is at length reached, and Mr Clavering
advances with his groomsman to meet the procession.
He is perfectly composed and self-possessed, and has
given his companion a mauvais quart-dlwure, by
claiming that gentleman's undivided attention to a
plan of warming the church by means of an apparatus
of his own invention. The groomsman, who much
preferred to scan the pretty village girls who
crowded the gallery to see the ceremony, had little
inclination to observe where a stove might be placed,
or where a hot-air pipe might be run up, and was
particularly delighted when the sexton (who had been
listening to the propositions) burst out with : " Lord
bless 'ee, sir ! we should ha' the whole place alight
like a brick-kiln. This church ain't going to perish by
fire  no, no ; a's sinking down gradual in the earth,

and Passon Vane says as how a's already three feet
below the proper level."

This is a very old church, is it not ? " inquired the
groomsman.

A is, sir ; a was built in the reign of Richard the
Second, and was dedicated to St Lawrence  the gridiron
saint, sir, as likely you knows. But here they
comes. Now then, all on ye stand quiet " (addressing
the people in the gallery) ; " and you, Mr Carter " (addressing
the schoolmaster), "please strike up a joyful
song of praise as soon as you sees the first on 'em
come in."

As Mr Carter was behind the little organ, which
was tall and thin in its construction, a small boy was
told off to make the necessary investigation, and in
another minute the whoop of this young gentleman
made it apparent that the time had arrived when the
"joyful" strain should peal forth ; and it did peal forthwith
all the " timbre " that the performer could command.


A thanksgiving for getting a husband," observed
one of the girls in the gallery to her friend ; " maybe
it will bring us luck, for lovers are so scarce. Who
knows ? "

A slight bustle ; a little marshalling and ordering ;
then deep silence, and Mr Fane, without any extraneous
assistance, performed the rite which made
these two  Francis Clavering and Mary Leppell 
man and wife. It was remarked that during the
whole ceremony the Colonel remained mute and

almost motionless, and that when it was concluded
he made no attempt to salute his daughter. Mrs
Leppell, not knowing very well what to do, did not
venture to move towards the vestry; and Lillian
Fanshawe, usually so self-possessed and so ready to
meet every emergency, stood still, looking at the
newly married pair, shaking in every limb, and her
face drawn in a deadly pallor. At that moment she
could not have moved had her life depended on it.

The common - sense of Mrs Braintree here acted
most usefully. She advanced towards the bride, and,
taking her hand, led her to her mother.

Their embrace was the signal for a universal move,
and Ralph, recovering himself, shook hands with Mr
Clavering and then with Mr Glascott. After the
customary business of signing the register in the
vestry, the procession returned to the house, and the
wedding-breakfast took place forthwith.

This feast went off with great hilarity. The speeches,
as had been stipulated beforehand, were delightfully
brief, and the Colonel was charmed when Mr Glascott,
in proposing the health of Viscount Hieover and that
of all his family, dexterously introduced the name of
that absent member, Marmaduke Leppell, to public
recognition.

The Viscount responded to the toast, and remarked
that as Marmaduke was at that moment paying the
penalty for his indiscretion in the matter of his own
marriage, by an enforced absence at the bidding of the
law, it would be worse than unkind if he and the

company then present omitted to offer him their good
wishes for the future. " We are none of us perfect,"
the Viscount continued, benevolently, " and on an occasion
like this, we are all, I think, naturally led to
palliate the mistakes of the absent, and those of the
young more especially."

Thus the health of Mr and Mrs Marmaduke Lep-
pell was drank with all the honours.

Ralph, although agitated by secret annoyance, which
the presence of Mr Glascott considerably increased,
certainly drew a good augury from this speech. It
proved to him that whatever the Viscount might
choose to do or say against Marmaduke in private,
he was not the man to depreciate his own kith and
kin on a public occasion like the present  for public
it might be considered, as several acquaintances from
Yarnee and the neighbourhood, who were not included
in the invitation to the marriage ceremony, were present
at the breakfast.

As the state of Lady Asher's health precluded the
possibility of a dance, it had been settled, at the
eleventh hour, that a picnic to the neighbouring castle
of Barkholme and its woods would be a capital entertainment
wherewith to conclude the programme of
the day ; and as the newly married pair were bound
for Paris, and the train-service demanded early departure,
the travelling-carriage was at the door at one
o'clock precisely.

The bride went to see Lady Asher as soon as her
travelling-dress was donned, and in the privacy of her

grandmother's apartment did Mary take a fond and
affectionate leave of her mother, comforting her with
the assurance that she was really happy, and bidding
her to abstain from all anxiety on her account.
Frank is not very demonstrative, I know," the girl
said ; " but it is his nature, and perhaps that is better
than a great show of affection at first."

Mrs Leppell replied that this was quite true ; and
after a kiss to grand mamma, the rest of the adieux
were made, and the travelling-carriage of Mr and Mrs
Clavering disappeared through the gates of Hunter's
Lodge.

Now all was hurry and bustle for the picnic, for
the remains of the bridal feast were partly to furnish
the cold baked meats of the next entertainment. The
excitement of getting the carriages in order, and filling
them suitably, was an agreeable diversion to Colonel
Leppell, and the prospect of driving his coach, and
handling the wildest team in the county, raised his
spirits considerably. Mrs Leppell was to remain at
home and take care of her mother ; whilst Prothero,
and the nurses, and the babies, should preside at a
high tea given in the village to every one who might
choose to attend it.

Lord Hieover, on leaving, gave a handsome sum for
this purpose, and taking the Colonel aside, he presented
him with a cheque for one hundred pounds, expressing
himself at the same time highly satisfied with the
manner in which everything had been conducted. " ISTo
outrageous show, no absurd expense, quite the proper

thing for a daughter who is marrying a simple gentleman.
I am very much pleased."

So also was his grandson Dick, who received a paton
the head and the gift of a guinea. It was a sight
to see Dick in the clog-cart with two other choice
spirits, and the stable dogs, Flames and Blazer, careering
up and down the highroad, all impatience to take
the lead of the picnic procession as soon as the wonderful
coach could be proclaimed ready for business.

It took some time, but eventually that risky vehicle
was announced to be in starting condition. It certainly
seemed to be a foolhardy proceeding on the part
of those who occupied it, to venture with such unbroken
cattle ; but Colonel Leppell's driving was renowned,
and by a special providence, apparently, he
never had come to grief.

It was therefore to his great delight that the
crack " was filled both inside and out, and all apprehensions
as to safety cast to the winds.

Percival La Touche, who had hitherto played a
secondary part in the programme of the day, now
thought that the time was come when he should assert
himself. He and Marcia had engaged a nice carriage
with a good pair of chestnuts, which was retained for
the picnic, and Mr La Touche was much exercised as
to how he should induce Miss Clavering to take a seat
in that conveyance.

Mr G-lascott's carriage was rapidly being converted
into a huge pigeon-pie or sardine-box, by reason of a
crowd of very young people having seized it, with the

declaration that the owner had offered the use of it to
each and every one of them ; and a fine noise and
good-humoured wrangle was the consequence of this
wholesale piece of generosity. This was just what
Percival wanted. Miss Clavering surely could. not
occupy her guardian's carriage with all that crowd !
He therefore desired Marcia to offer the vacant seat
in their own carriage to Willina, and to be quick
about it.

Miss Fanshawe, you mean ? " said Marcia, who, all
unconscious of her nephew's latest predilection, fancied
that he had inadvertently confused the names.

No, no ! " replied Percival, sharply ; " allow me to
know my own mind. Go and ask Miss Clavering, and
be quick about it, or she will be snapped up by the
party in Lord "Willows' trap."

Marcia did not venture a second remark, and was
preparing to do as she was bid, when Mr Glascott
suddenly stood near them. At the same moment a
happy thought seized Percival. " Nothing like going
to the fountain-head," said he  " nothing like it ; " and
in a moment, with hat in hand, Percival preferred his
request to Mr Glascott. The latter, taken as he was
by surprise, could not well decline this civility.

Oh, certainly, much obliged  that is, if she is not
already bespoken," said Mr Glascott, answering for his
cousin. " Perhaps you will be good enough to ascertain
for yourself, as I must arrange matters a little in my
own vehicle. Willina," he continued, as he perceived
Miss Clavering, " Mr La Touche is good enough to

offer you a seat in his carriage with his aunt, and a
a "

Harold Fanshawe," cut in Percival, as he remarked
that youth retire in contempt, and disgust from Mr
Glascott's vehicle, and saw that he was seeking more
congenial company.

Very nice," said Mr Glascott, who was pleased, for
"VVillina's sake, that she would not be obliged to endure
Mr La Touche wholly without some kind of masculine
alloy ; so he continued, waxing benevolent 

Mr La Touche's proposition is really very opportune,
and we are much beholden to him for it. Our
own carriage is certainly in the hands of the Philistines,
and I am sure you will enjoy the drive with a
smaller party." So saying, Mr Glascott walked away,
and left his cousin to Percival's escort.

He, meanwhile, had by means of telegraphic signals
brought Harold Fanshawe towards his carriage, and
intimated to that youth that he was to get in, and
place himself opposite Miss La Touche. Harold did
so, nothing loth ; and as Willina had no other alternative
but to accept the La Touche politeness with a
good grace, she stepped without demur into the place
allotted to her, and very shortly afterwards the whole
cortege was on the move for the fair woods of Bark-holme.


Miss Clavering naturally looked about to see what
had become of Mr Glascott, and was pleased when
she descried him comfortably ensconced in the carriage
of Canon Braintree, under the wing of the wife of that

dignitary, and Miss Fanshawe occupying the fourth
seat in their vehicle. Lillian had ceded her place in
Lord Willows' waggonette, which was supposed to
be especially reserved for the bridesmaids, to Miss
Braintree.

On perceiving this substitution, both Marcia and
Willina jumped to a conclusion which, as it happened,
was utterly erroneous. They elected to believe that
this was a manoeuvre on the part of Miss Braintree to
improve her acquaintance with the noble driver of the
waggonette, whereas the contrary was the case, as
Miss Fanshawe, having her own reasons for preferring
the quiet society occupying Canon Braintree's vehicle,
had suggested the exchange, which of course the
Canon's daughter was delighted to accept, offering
as it did so much more amusement and excitement.
Miss Fanshawe alleged a severe headache as the
reason for making the request, and thus laid low
any surmises that Sarah Braintree may have indulged
in as to her having made this proposition at
the very last moment.

Mr La Touche also looked into this vehicle, and had
Miss Clavering chanced to observe him at the moment,
she would have wondered what made him smile in
such ironical fashion. The expression was merely
momentary ; but it left Percival satisfied in his own
mind that he had discovered the embryo of a secret,
which, when developed, might possibly affect the destiny
of more than one life. With the conviction that
this day must decide his own fate for wife and dowry,

he turned, pleasantly, to the ladies. His deferential
manner and sparkling conversation allured Miss
Clavering out of the reserve in which she had intended
to entrench herself ; whilst it delighted his
aunt, and caused Harold Fanshawe to open both his
mouth and his eyes, and maintain that dead silence
which is generally declared to be the normal condition
of the stock-fish.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER VII.

THE FAIR WOODS OF BARKHOLME.

At length the procession arranged itself and was soon
beyond the village of Yarnee. It was amid the loveliest
scenery of fair England that it made its way, 
down mossy lanes, shaded by great trees which bore
almost every tint that foliage can acquire, as they
stood out grandly in the rich apparel of the leafy
month of June.

Here and there a broad expanse of upland, bordered
by a dark line of distant forest, which served as
an enclosure to the ruddy ripening grain, enabled the
party to meet together for a time, and to separate
thankfully into the cool glens through which ran
tiny streamlets watering the wealth of wild flowers
which literally carpeted the ground. All was so
fair and so sweet,  the glorious sunshine  the distant
hazy veil of blue vapour, deepening in the far horizon
to the richest purple  the air pierced as it were with
subtle fragrant scent,  that it was no wonder that
Dick Leppell should declare that he never in his

life had known so magnificent a midsummer day ;
and that Canon Braintree should fall fast asleep,
chanted into the land of forgetfulness by the lazy
murmur of distant brooks and the prolonged coo
of the wood-pigeons and doves, challenged as these
were by the wail of the widow - bird  that vox
human of sorrow  interspersing the monotony of
calm content.

Canon Braintree sleeps, and his wife improves the
shining hour. The situation was advantageous, for
there were occasions in which the lady believed that
she advanced the interests of her calling without the
co-operation of her spouse. He was all very well
in his place, and was no doubt eminently useful as a
referee, but sometimes he spoilt enterprise by asking
untimely questions, and by making uncalled-for remarks.
It was in the fine work of ecclesiastical business,
Mrs Canon Braintree concluded to think, that her
husband was not quite up to the mark ; and so it is
with satisfaction that she hears him snore, and resolves
to ask Mr Glascott for a subscription for the Dorcas
Society of Yarnee.

Had the Canon been awake, he would doubtless have
considered it an unfair advantage to invite a man
into his carriage, and having got him there, to open
upon him with a request for money, for any object
however laudable: he would have probably winked
disapprobation, and would have perhaps opined with
King Solomon that there was a time and a place for
all things.

Mrs Braintree held that there was no time like the
present time, according to the adage ; and acting on
this conviction, she at once made her application, toning
it down with the assurance to Mr Glascott that
she knew how delighted he would be to make a thank-offering
for the blessings of the day.

Mr Glascott, who had made offerings enough in one
shape or another, did not seem, at first, to meet this
proposition with very hearty goodwill. Further discovery,
however, convinced that gentleman that Mrs
Braintree scrupulously restricted her advocacy to the
claims of present and visible British misery, to the
utter exclusion of unfeasible plans for African conversion
a la hate, or to the habitation of the Patagonia
in the flannel vest of respectability. Two guineas
would let him off cheaply, and he therefore promised
that amount. It was less than Mrs Braintree had expected,
but she wisely concealed her opinion, and
registered the sum as a yearly subscription from Mr
Glascott of Brydone, Island of Jersey.

It was highly satisfactory to think that the " thank-offering"
would thus repeat itself for many years
to come.

This business being concluded, Mrs Braintree sets
her wits to work in another direction, for the benefit
of her order, as she sometimes expressed it : a slight
incident had suggested the idea, and she now thinks
she must fulfil the Christian duty of turning Miss Fan-share
into a well-endowed county woman. The material
was present, and she would utilise the same ; no time

like the present time,  for the Canon, like most sensible
men, was averse to match - making, and still
snored.

The incident which attracted Mrs Braintree's attention
was this. Just as she had registered Mr Glas-cost's
subscription, the carriage containing the La
Touche party came up close to the side of her barouche,
and as it did so, she saw Lillian Fanshawe casta
glance at one of its inmates, of such peculiar expression,
that the good woman was convinced she had surprised
a dart of furious jealousy in full flight.

The face of the young lady, which during the whole
day had been unusually pale, was at that moment
suffused with a crimson flush ; and a steady anger, at
the same time, gleamed in her eyes.

Mrs Braintree could not quite satisfy herself as to
whether it was towards Miss Clavering or towards
Mr La Touche that the look was directed ; but she
had seen enough to be assured that it was one,
or perhaps both, of these individuals who had excited
displeasure in her young friend's mind,  a displeasure
so deep that the latter, apparently, made no sort of
effort to control its outward expression  the habitual
composure of her manner having quite deserted her.
The girl, in fact, literally trembled.

At that moment an opinion rushed through the
mind of the Canon's wife, and it took a very peremptory
form. Mr La Touche must be secured for Miss Fan-share
; the daughters of clergymen nowadays must
marry money ; Mr La Touche is the friend of the

Fanshawes ; it is through the introduction by that
family that he has become acquainted with the
Leppells, and is here at all; the gentleman is not,
by all accounts, one whom it is desirable to ally
with the Church ; however, his fortune is large, and
with a clergyman's daughter for wife, the manipulation
of money would be advantageous to the clerical
world.

So thinking, and so determining, Mrs Braintree
proceeded to render herself agreeable to the La Touche
party ; woke up the Canon, with the view of making
him back up an invitation to dinner which she gave
to Marcia and Percival for the following day, under
the impression, real or assumed, that they were not
immediately on the return to London.

Here Mrs Braintree's hospitality was of no avail ;
for although Marcia seemed disposed to accept the
courtesy offered, a sharp admonitory touch of the foot
by her nephew quickly changed the current of her
views, and she stated that both she and Mr La Touche
were engaged in town for the evening of the morrow.
Percival, for his part, testified his deep regret, but
hoped on some happy occasion to see Canon and Mrs
Braintree at Hinton Square.

So that device fell through. But the Canon's wife
in most respects was a woman of resource, and in consequence
she managed by some jugglery to mix the
occupants of the two carriages in a general conversation;
and Miss Fanshawe, now herself again, talked
vigorously with Marcia, and amongst other light inquiries,

she demanded of Percival, with some significance
possibly, what had become of his brother Stephen,
and how it was that he was not then present, he
being such a favourite with all, and with the bride
especially ?

Ah, indeed ! " exclaimed Mr Glascott, following up
the inquiry. " I thought I missed somebody,  very
gentlemanly, good-looking man your brother, sir. I
have scarcely seen him, but our slight acquaintance
has left a very pleasant remembrance on my part."
This to Percival, by way of compliment to that
gentleman.

Now this was the particular subject which had perplexed
the mind of Miss Clavering for many hours ;
and if the truth must be told, the absence of Stephen
La Touche had very much militated against the pleasure
of the day, as far as she was personally concerned.
She believed that a formal invitation had been sent
to that gentleman amongst others who were bid to
the marriage-feast, and it was natural that she should
feel some surprise at his non-appearance, and be at a
loss to understand why his absence should not have
been remarked by any of the Leppell family.

Her astonishment was further augmented as she remembered
that, when she was in London with Mary
for the purpose of buying bridal finery, and had during
that fortnight seen something of the La Touche family
in the aggregate, it seemed lien entendu on all sides
that Mr Stephen La Touche was to be a guest at
Hunter's Lodge on Midsummer-day.

It was therefore with some interest that Miss
Clavering listened to the response of Mr La Touche
to the direct question which Miss Fanshawe had
put.

Percival's reply was curt enough, although he reddened
a little, and looked somewhat discomposed ashe
gave it tongue.

"My brother has had no regular invitation," said
he ; " besides, he is overwhelmed with business, owing
to the long holiday he had taken before."

Here Marcia must needs chime in with the information
that her nephew was very busy with the affairs of
a rich widow, whom his father was very desirous that
he should cultivate. " So you see," continued Marcia,
adding more intricacy to this game of cross-purposes,
"that Stephen is now combining both business and
pleasure in the most happy manner."

The real state of the case was, that Mrs Leppell,
by a singular aversion of les convenances  very
much the vogue with indolent natures  had really
not sent Mr Stephen La Touche any invitation whatever.
She had, when inviting Percival verbally, expressed
a hope that he would induce his brother to
accompany him, and had supposed that, when at
Pinnacles, Mary would arrange the matter with the
latter in person. Percival had suppressed Mrs Lep-
pell's message entirely, and that lady's daughter had
supposed that her mother had written to Mr Stephen
La Touche ; and what between supposition and taking
.things for granted, the young man remained under

the impression that in the bustle of concluding engagements
he had been overlooked.

Had Stephen been less in love, or more sure of his
ground, perhaps, he would have managed in someway
to get the matter thoroughly righted ; but that
subtle delicate shyness which is one of the symptoms
of intense devotion, and which makes a coward of the
strongest mind, operated to prevent him even alluding
to the subject.

Being totally unsuspicious of Percival's mean
trick, it was natural that he should await till the
last moment some intimation from either Mrs Leppell
or the Colonel : as this was not forthcoming, he saw
his aunt and his brother depart in triumph, and made
no sign.

One crumb of comfort, however, had fallen into the
cup of Stephen La Touche. That fortnight which the
young ladies spent in London had proved, beyond
doubt, that Percival was making no way in the good
graces of Miss Clavering. Marcia had called, and
there had been an exchange of dinner-parties; they
had gone in a huge company to a ball, whereat the
barrister had experienced some pleasure in seeing
Mr Percival well snubbed by the lady of his own
love ; and furthermore, he had derived much solace at
her expressing a hope that he would pay them a visit
at Brydone at no far-off day.

You tell me you are going to coach a young man
in the lore of the law," she had said, in one of the
pauses of a square dance ; " and you have mentioned

that you would like to go to the Channel Islands for
the reading tour. If you are in Jersey, I am sure
Mr Glascott will be glad to see you at Brydone."

You are going there soon ? " Stephen had inquired.


"As soon as possible after the wedding is over.
My cousin is tired of rambling about, and I wish to
see him comfortable and really at home before I visit
my brother after his marriage."

Stephen there and then registered a vow to make
the reading pupil elect Jersey as the most convenient
spot in the British dominions for hard work ; and
Miss Clavering resolved to impress upon Mr Glascott
the desirability of showing attention to this younger
son of the house of La Touche, whenever kindly fate
should place the opportunity in his way.

They still spoke indirectly of meeting at the wedding,
and therefore Willina was somewhat astonished
and much disappointed when she heard that Miss
La Touche, and her eldest nephew solely, had arrived
at the Eed Lion at Yarnee, in order to be present at
the wedding on the following day. She was impelled,
from a feeling of reserve, to abstain from making any
inquiry regarding this circumstance, and the Leppells
en masse were far too much taken up with their own
affairs to bestow time on mere conjecture. It seemed
to be tacitly agreed that Mr Stephen would have come
if he could, and that later on they would know the
reason of his absence. Dick Leppell and Harold
Fanshawe, in a spirit of prophecy, declared that

Touched " would drop in upon them at any moment,
and then the subject utterly passed out of mind.

Although Percival had replied so confidently to
Miss Fanshawe's inquiry, the young lady entertained
her doubts about the accuracy of his statements, in
so far as the part concerning the invitation was implied
; and Miss Clavering entirely discredited what
Mr La Touche and his aunt had advanced on the
subject.

It seemed clear to both the young ladies that a
purpose was to be served in keeping Stephen away, 
perhaps jealousy, perhaps envy and all uncharitableness.
Whatever the cause, Miss Clavering felt convinced
that it was owing to the agency of Mr La
Touche that his younger brother was not driving
in the woods* of Barkholme on that sunny .


But now the point is reached at which the company
are to alight from their several vehicles, and proceed
a little distance on foot to that recess in the woods
which the noble owner of the property had caused
to be erected for the accommodation of pleasure-seekers,
and for artists who came from afar to sketch
the ruins of old Barkholme Castle, and the surrounding
scenery of wooded vale and hill.

Truly it is a pleasant place ; the undulating ground
stretching into far vistas of graceful foliage, just
affording peeps of sunny corn-fields in the ridges
of the hills,  the shelving banks thick with moss,
through which the tender wild-flowers push up their

heads and bow to the wind. Nor must pass unrecognised
the silver water glinting here and there in
the far distance,  that runaway child of the homely
brook, which babbled in methodical rhythm in its
appointed place, just as it babbled in ages gone by,
when the pebbles which formed its bed were perhaps
a trifle less smooth.

And so down to the rustic gates which enclose the
little domain set apart for the convenience of visitors.
It is a humble quiet place, consisting of a cottage
wherein dwells a retainer of the family now past service.
His daughter and a grandchild form the household.
They are not ill off, but are glad of any addition
which they may gain in attending to the wants of
strangers and sightseers.

The child is happy to-day  for has not the man
who had been sent forward earlier to make preparations,
and announce the coming of the Leppell party,
told her in strict secrecy that a lump of wedding-cake
for them all is on its way, and a bottle of wine and
a wedding-favour, and one or two other nice things
besides ? So little Jessie waits, looking at the great
coach with awe, thinking that the packet must be hid
somewhere in its wonderful depths; and then she
turns to fly as the Colonel, with his loud haw-haw
voice, demands a kiss, and proclaims that ere long
she will be the prettiest girl in the whole barony,
deny this who can.

The horses and carriages are stowed away, and
some of the party walk up and down, and some

meander into the open until the meal, which is to be
served in a thatched-over barn, is declared ready.

Mrs Brain tree does her utmost to bring Mr La
Touche in juxtaposition with Miss Fanshawe, but he
sticks like a leech to Miss Clavering, who, in self-defence,
elects to sit with Marcia and admire the
beauties of nature from a rickety bench in a dilapidated
summer-house. As there is no room for Mr
La Touche, he moves reluctantly away, and Mrs
Braintree takes him in tow, walks him up and down,
and finally manages to secure the promise of a yearly
subscription for the Dorcas Society at Yarnee, which
Percival paid on the spot.

How Mrs Braintree achieved this miracle, and how
Percival consented to be thus mulcted, is one of the
mysteries which will never be cleared up in this
world.

It was thought by some that he paid his guinea asa
sort of entrance-fee into the society of the clerical
magnates of the earth; others opined that Mr La
Touche had done a good business turn in securing
Mrs Braintree's patronage as a customer for some of
the wines of Hungary which his firm was just then
importing, and that the guinea would eventually return
tenfold into his bosom.

Be this as it may, Percival's name was down on a
charity subscription-list. Mrs Braintree believed that
the dye was coming off this black sheep ; and Marcia,
when she heard of it, declared emphatically that the
heavens would fall.

The interview rather detached Mr La Touche from
the younger ladies, and he found himself at the al
fresco meal seated beside a jolly-looking man who
was addressed by the Leppell fry as "Old Clothes."
This gentleman, who was barely thirty years of age,
and bore the name of John Clowes, was a yeoman of
the district, who, being in the neighbourhood, had
driven over in his gig to present his congratulations
to Colonel Leppell. He was going to Scotland, he
said, for some months, and would have no other opportunity
of personally wishing all happiness to the
young married pair.

Mr Clowes had intended to depart as soon as his
mission was fulfilled, but the Leppell fry would hear
of nothing of the kind ; and so the good yeoman had
to be dragged hither and thither to give his opinion,
as requested, upon the dogs and horses appertaining
to the cortege, and to submit to much handling of the
beautiful mare which he had driven in his gig.

Percival, as soon as the collation was served, took
his seat somewhat sulkily, although it had been impressed
upon all that the circumstances admitted of
scant ceremony, and that gentlemen and the younger
people must find seats how and where they could.
Colonel Leppell thought he had made a highly apt
and Scriptural allusion as he informed Mrs Braintree
that at the loaf-and-fish picnic of Scripture, which was
the largest which the world had ever seen, he was
sure there was no question of precedence, and it was
probable that every one sat upon the ground.

Mrs Braintree promptly suppressed the temptation
to preach which the situation suggested, and at once
proceeded, like the careful wife she certainly was, to
install the Canon where the draught was not likely to
touch him, and then cast about to moor Miss Fan-share
by her side.

Mr La Touche was greatly chagrined to perceive
Miss Clavering in the opposite angle of the table at
which he sat, bounded on her right hand by Lord
Willows, and on the left by Harold Fanshawe.

What was it that caused the latter to look so
supremely important all of a sudden, and at the same
time appear to constitute himself as the picked bodyguard
of Miss Clavering ?

Had Mr La Touche lingered near the rickety summerhouse
a little longer, he would have discovered
the source of this mystery. No sooner had he been
walked off out of that vicinity by Mrs Braintree, than
Willina, anxious to escape, signalled to Harold Fan-share,
who was walking about very much like a desolate
fowl, that he should come to her immediately. On
his obeying her summons, she said, " Would you kindly
get me my little red shawl out of the carriage, and,
dear boy, mind you don't leave me, but sit next to meat
the dinner-table. I want a change of companions,
after having been so long shut up with the same
people. I don't wish to be rude, but we are not
obliged to be with the same party all day."

I should just think not," said Harold ; " that Mr
La Touche may be a great swell, but at the same

time he is an awful bore, and I am getting tired of
the aunt myself."

Hush ! " interrupted Miss Clavering, indicating
Marcia, who had risen, and who, with her back to
this pair, was so attentively watching her nephew
and his clerical friend, that she had not even remarked
the proximity of the youth,  " hush ! can we get away
now ?

Yes ; look to the right, through those laurels,  it
will take us to the shed where they are laying out the
food. It isn't lunch, you know, and it isn't dinner
exactly," continued Master Fanshawe," but there's
lots of it,  quite a jolly blow-out."

So they turned and fled, and it was really a matter
of rejoicing to Willina that she effected her escape so
happily.

It was high time, for the girl could not conceal
from herself the manifest intentions of Mr La Touche.
She had ignored these as persistently as possible during
her late stay in London, and had, although against
her better judgment, agreed with Mary Leppell that
Lillian Fanshawe's engagement to Mr La Touche was
only a matter of time.

Yet, put the truth away from her as much as she
would, that instinct, which perhaps is the substitute
for the cell wanting in the brain in the feminine composition,
warned her that the time was come wherein
she must listen to a declaration of love from Mr La
Touche, and that, moreover, he was only seeking an
opportunity to make the same on that very day.

Her object now was not to be left alone a single
instant ; and as Harold Fanshawe was, in her estimation,
a boy who could be easily hoodwinked, she,
with feminine astuteness, determined to make him
her knight for the day, and naturally counted upon
the satisfaction which this distinction would afford
him for being well guarded without any one being
the whit the wiser as to her reason for selecting this
particular juvenile as her companion in the after-dinner
stroll.

The feast was merry enough except to Percival,
who now felt all the pangs of jealousy directed
against Lord Willows, simply because he was a lord ;
and all the irritation of uncongenial propinquity
against unconscious Mr Clowes, because he was nota
lord but a kindly English yeoman.

Dish after dish was presented to Mr La Touche
by this good man, who was under the impression
that Percival was a nervous invalid who ought to
be seated near his fashionable mother  for such Mr
Clowes opined Marcia to be.

Miss Fanshawe, with a kind of grim composure,
watched all that was going on, but was quite mistaken
in her impression that Willina was trying to
pit Lord Willows against Mr La Touche, for the
especial benefit of the latter ; and Mr Glascott, who
was full of admiration for Lillian, thought how charming
it was of her to devote herself so beautifully to
Canon Braintree, and ensconce herself as a kind of
rampart betwixt that dignitary and the wind which

VOL. II. K

blew directly into the end of the thatched shed
wherein they fed.

Sarah Braintree flirted with the Colonel, and
sincerely lamented that the latter could not combine
the functions of military chaplain with his
other duties. "He had a rousing style," Sarah informed
him, "and had just the voice for Gregorian
chants."

The Colonel did not quite appreciate the latter part
of Miss Braintree's compliment, as he had a vague
idea that a Pope, or Popes, Gregory had been in existence,
and that these chants were some of the
marks of the beast," proclaiming themselves in hideous
howling. So the Colonel repudiated the chants,
but he thanked Sarah for introducing the subject of
music, as he wanted to secure the co-operation of her
mother in getting a subscription for a harmonium,
which he had, it must be confessed, ordered for the
soldiers' barracks at Yarnee, without having a shilling
to pay for it.

"You must get up a meeting," said Sarah, with
promptitude ; " it is a nice method for inducing people
who like one another to come together."

Yes ; and for those who don't like one another
also," the Colonel made answer. "But I will get
speech of your mother on the subject; she is just
the person I want to help in the matter, as she does
her work well, and I find is putting a stop to this
stupid county-versus-town feeling."

Ah, you see, we have worked on the broad lines

of a London parish," replied Sarah, perhaps a trifle
sententiously.

All the better. Just fancy that man Mompesson,
now Rector of Eooke-cum-Dawe ! he was for years a
curate in Yarnee, and lived in lodgings in Eed Lion
Square. He received the greatest kindness and hospitality
from the professional people and others living in
Yarnee, and now, forsooth, because he is a rector, he
finds he cannot visit with any but the county people,
and drives into the town on Saturdays with a haut en
has expression towards the inhabitants which is positively
sickening."

Ma will soon put an end to all that," quoth Sarah.
The fact is, that the wives of the other canons have
rather fostered this sort of thing. Ma will bring
everybody to their bearings."

So Mrs Braintree would and did ; but the misfortune
of it was, that there was so much of the
Canoness in her method of acting, that it roused
rather more of resentment than respect in those who
did not professionally belong to the English Church.
The lawyers, doctors, and retired military were not
going to submit to a female cleric ; and it was only
the good intentions and real sincerity of Mrs Braintree
that caused her to make her way with those of her
own calling.

Her one redeeming point was that she made no distinctions
between the town and the county clergy ;
and as Colonel Leppell very truly said, she spent the
income of the canonry in the town, and did good work.

Thus, after the feast was over, Colonel Leppell verified
his favourable opinion of the Canon's wife. He
had a long conversation with that lady, in which
he laid all his difficulties before her, and admitted
that he had acted rashly in ordering the instrument
alluded to without having the wherewithal to defray
its cost.

Then they had a clear understanding as to how the
funds should be raised for this purpose, and Mrs
Braintree promised on her part to inaugurate a meeting
at the town-hall, and work tooth and nail to get
people to attend it, or to contribute help in a pecuniary
form.

So far so good. The Colonel was delighted, and
undertook to sound the trumpet in the neighbouring
division of the county, Wurstede. His friend, Colonel
Guyse, who commanded there, was a tower of strength,
and would do his best to help. Then Mrs Braintree
left her host, delighted with her mission, and proceeded
to look after Miss Fanshawe and Mr La
Touche.

It is at all times difficult to find persons amongst
ruins, and especially if they happen to be inclined to
seek the shade of thick foliage with which these are
generally interspersed. Dips of undulating ground,
rendered partially invisible by rounded tussocks,
which rise up abruptly at irregular distances, are not
exactly calculated to assist a searcher to discern a
distant object ; whilst a layer of flint stones and small
pebbles rather invite attention to the maintenance

of the perpendicular, than supply assistance to speculations
concerning the far horizon.

Total ignorance also of the topography of the
country generally forms a barrier to satisfactory research,
and as Mrs Braintree only succeeded in catching
the sound of voices, without being able to form
the slightest idea from whence it came, she resolved
to turn back and trust to chance for finding a fellow-guest
or a guide.

The servants and coachmen, she knew, were all dispersed
in different directions, and would only come to
the cottage at the hour arranged for departure.

The investigations of the Canon's wife were not,
however, totally without result. She had neared a
small waterfall, and as she stood admiring it, she
espied Miss Fanshawe coming round a narrow path,
attended, not by Mr La Touche, but by Mr Glas-cost.
The elderly gentleman guided the young lady
up a flight of wet slippery steps to gain some summit
which apparently led to nowhere ; and so Mrs Brain-tree
concluded that some striking feature in the view
was to be descried from that height, and she therefore
left them to their enjoyment of the beauties of nature
without interruption.

"Nice fatherly man," Mrs Braintree said to herself
; " but where can Mr La Touche be ? "

She walked on, not encountering a creature until
she found herself in front of the little parlour at the
side of the cottage, which was especially reserved for
visitors, and which was principally used as a dressing-room

for the ladies of the several expeditions to Bark-holme.


A nearer approach satisfied Mrs Braintree that she
heard the sound of voices issuing from the half-opened
window of that room, and she hastened forward and
looked within, in order to ascertain who were its present
occupants. It was scarcely a feeling of sheer
curiosity that prompted her to act in this wise, but
rather the determination to secure a companion, even
if a stranger, for her intended exploration of the ruins.

A moment's inspection, however, satisfied her that
under no plea whatever would her company be desirable
; and the scene which met her view was so ludicrous,
that the good lady was fain to retire in order to
freely indulge her risible faculties,  for there, perambulating
the ground on his knees, was to be seen Mr
La Touche, holding on to the hem of Miss Clavering's
garment, and gesticulating wildly.

A long light overcoat which Percival had donned,
evidently to protect himself from the draught, increased
the peculiarity of his appearance, as its ends
flapped against his heels in the most undignified
fashion, and added greatly to the limp and prostrate
spectacle which he then presented.

Pray, pray, rise, Mr La Touche," Willina said, asher
admirer stuck tight, and effectually prevented her
from reaching the door. "I am sorry to cause you
pain, but I cannot, I never can permit your addresses :
do be reasonable, and let this occurrence pass from
both cur minds as if it had never been."

I cannot ! " gasped poor Percival, who really was
thoroughly in earnest. " Give me time, then  do not
discard me at once. I will promise anything  do
anything."

It cannot be," insisted Miss Clavering, firmly. " It
is only right to say, that under no circumstances whatever
could I consent to become your wife : it would
be unjust to you  nay, it would be dishonest, for I
could never yield you either affection or esteem."

Then you prefer some one else  that's the real
truth," snapped Percival, changing his tone ; " that's
the true cause."

You have no right to say that,  no right to infer
it," she answered, now really angry. " Loose your hold,
sir, and let me go." As she spoke, she suddenly
snatched her dress from Percival's grasp, and was out
through the door in a moment of time.

As fate would have it, she encountered Miss Fan-share,
who had come to this parlour to get Mr Glas-cost's
walking-stick, which lay in security amid some
wraps there. Although the latter was rather hurried,
she could not help remarking the peculiar expression
of Miss Clavering's face.

Something has happened," she said, almost involuntarily,
as she looked at Willina.

No  not exactly ; but Mr La Touche is within,
quite ill, and upset  something like a fit ; but the attack
will pass off'. It will be better, perhaps, to leave
him alone for a while."

The two young women looked at each other fixedly

as Miss Clavering made this declaration. A cold incredulous
smile passed over the features of Miss Fan-share,
as, steadily maintaining her gaze, she pushed
open the door and resolutely entered the parlour.

Here, with his head bowed between his hands, sat
Percival, rocking with emotion. Bitter disappointment
expressed itself in every line of his figure : he
was too miserable then to hear or see.

Lillian stood looking at him a moment, and then
retired. Had she entertained one spark of regard for
this man, she would have commiserated his grief, and
even felt honest anger against his fickleness.

As it was, Percival was only a good income and
position lost to her. She philosophically accepted the
fact ; but, woman-like, she vented all her indignation
upon her rival woman, and thenceforward she detested
"VVillina Clavering with all the strength of a hard
nature,  a nature that rarely forgets or forgives.

Shortly afterwards, through the management of
Mrs Braintree, it was whispered that Mr La Touche
had been taken ill, and that Mr Clowes had offered
the sufferer a seat in his gig and driven him straight
to Yarnee. There was no reason, however, to alarm
Marcia.

CHAPTEE VIII.

AN AFTERNOON WITH A HARMONIUM.

Mrs Braintree had worked vigorously, and had
carried her point also in getting the schoolroom of
Saint Jude's Church for the meeting that was to beheld
for the Harmonium Fund, and in further securing
many promises of attendance and support. The
rector of Saint Jude's parish was thankful for the two
guineas which were allotted to him for the hire of the
room for one afternoon, and great was the sweeping
and garnishing that went on in that apartment to
make it worthy of the occasion. Colonel Leppell
handsomely expressed his conviction that Mrs Brain-tree
was not half a bad woman ; wished she would
dress a little better, but allowed that under-caress was
better than over-dress ; and that Sarah, in the matter
of ostrich feathers, would strike terror into the heart
of the most hardened Hottentot.

At present there were other matters to be considered
than dress, and the Colonel fixed his attention
upon what the duties of the chairman should be : in

this he was ably assisted by the Canon's wife. It was
;i great feature in that lady's diplomacy that she had
persuaded the Colonel that he could make a speech in
public. "I need not remind you," said that astute
manager, " that the dignity of the chair would be seriously
imperilled were you to say too much, or introduce
any remarks irrelevant to the matter."

 All I have got to say, at least at first, is that we
have bought a splendid harmonium for the soldiers'
church, and we want the audience to pay for it,  in
fact, that we depend upon the collection we can squeeze
out of them," replied the pupil, with a knowing look
which just fell short of a wink.

"Of course you will put that into nice language,"
returned the lady. "But, you know, part of your
bus will be to introduce the speakers, and compliment

them, and thank them in the name of the
public for what they have said, and for the support
of their personal attendance."

And then I have got to sing out ' Hear, hear,' and
Attention,' at some of the remarks, I know."

It just requires a little management to time these
expressions. You know your own speech will come
in at the end, as there will be a vote of thanks to you
for taking the chair. The great point is to press the
subject of the subscription home; it would be so desirable
to wipe off' the cost of the harmonium, and
have a sum over towards the funds of the establishment.
I have thought that the harmonium should be
opened by the organist, and the first two or three

pieces be played by him, to do the instrument justice ;
but," continued Mrs Braintree, " the organist of the
Cathedral cannot be offered less than a guinea, and
that is rather much for one or two performances."

He ought to play for nothing, out of respect to the
cause, and send the harmonium a subscription," said
Colonel Leppell decidedly.

You see, Colonel, a line must be drawn, and if Mr
Westmacott were to play for every charitable purpose,
he would have little else to do : he has been tormented
by people all over the country for gratuitous musical
help, and really it is not without reason that Mr
Westmacott insists upon a fee."

People are deuced fond of putting their charity
upon other folks," answered Colonel Leppell; "just
look how doctors are often imposed upon, and ladies
are the greatest sinners in that line. A medical man
can't come into a house but what the mistress finds out
that somebody besides the patient must have their eyes,
or their teeth, or their toes examined. But about ,
 I suppose it would not do to offer him five
shillings for an overture ? You see it would be as well
to pay a professional to bring out all the tones well."

Mr Westmacott cannot be offered less than a
guinea, Colonel."

Well, it can't be helped. For myself, I hate harmoniums
as a rule,  I would much rather have a trumpet
and harp ; but, of course, can't be had  though
trumpets and shams are more Scriptural. King
David, you know, he always had his psalms well

accompanied. However, we may as well keep it
dark that harmoniums are not mentioned in the Bible ;
but could not our specimen be introduced under the
general head of an instrument of music ? " And here
the Colonel looked as if he had scored a very telling
point by this suggestion.

Mrs Braintree agreed that this was a good idea.
There is an expression, ' all kinds of music ' ; but that
is not of much consequence," the lady went on to say.
A harmonium is now generally accepted as a small
kind of organ, and of course the make will be improved
as years pass on."

"Much need," returned her visitor; "as they now
stand they make the most infer  I mean dreadful
sounds, unless, perhaps, the noises which people perpetrate
in singing what are called Gregorian chants
be excepted. However," continued Colonel Leppell,
we must be thankful for small mercies, and my men
do like something that rings warlike and strident.
By the way, though, one of my fellows does play
the harmonium,  I forgot all about it ; by all means
let things be done decently and in order, madam,"
continued the officer, warming with his subject.
Private Bill Crasher in full uniform, presiding at
the harmonium, will have a telling effect."

Yes," replied Mrs Braintree ; " what can he
play ? "

"Oh, 'Drops of Brandy,' and 'The British Grenadiers,'
and one or two military marches, naturally."

Anything sacred ? " inquired the lady.

"Well, there's the 'Dead March' in 'Saul'"

That, I think, would be scarcely suitable for a joyful
and pleasant assembling together," Mrs Braintree
replied. " If you have no objection, I think it will be
better to have the man here and see what he can do,
and also, some kind of programme would be advisable
; don't you think so ? "

Just as you please  perhaps it would be as well.
But mind we must have ' See the Conquering Hero
Comes,' to strike up when the Bishop enters the room ;
or perhaps that had better be reserved for the
Bishops,  she represents the Church militant in
that direction. As for the Bishop (he's a good little
soul), I really should like something special played
up to glorify him. The question is, what is the most
appropriate musical glorification for prelates, eh ? "

' Ecce Sacerdotal Magnus,' " struck in Sarah
Braintree, who was becoming pronounced High
Church ; " that's a fine tune, and it would suit the
harmonium."

Ecce nonsense," replied the Colonel, who smelt
Tome in the Latin words ; " that is not the proper
march wherewith to usher in a Protestant bishop."

But the Church of England is really Catholic,"
persisted Sarah ; " we are finding out that the Reformation
reformed too much."

"Just you remember, my good young lady, that
our Queen is the head of the Church of England, and
that she by her coronation oath undertakes to back
up and propagate the Protestant faith. If you want

another example, remember that King Charles I., before
the battle of Edgehill, summoned his army together,
and in their presence stated that he accepted the
Protestant reformed religion of the Church of England.
I am very certain that I read this, because the
address to the army drew my attention to it. No,
no, don't sail under false colours; you know very
well that you would not have been so keen about calling
yourself a Catholic in the days of William and
Mary, or even under the Georges."

The Colonel was so perfectly correct in all this,
that Miss Braintree merely replied, "Then we can't
have ' Ecce Sacerdotal Magnus ' ? "

Not at any price," returned the Colonel ; " for to
be consistent, we should have the Bishop marching invested
as a Roman Catholic prelate."

"But he is coming in his everyday clothes," said
Sarah.

I suppose so, therefore there is no need for Ecce
what you call it ? even if his lordship were to be
arrayed in the black and white uniform,  no, gear,
get-up,  robes, I should say, of an orthodox bishop.
You see, they had the sense at the Reformation to
make the difference of costume mark the difference of
the religion, eh ? "

Not caring to be taken further into the depths
of the Colonel's theology, Mrs Braintree exclaimed,
What can we have played when the Bishop enters ?
I think the Hundredth Psalm would be rather professional."


' Praise Goal from whom all blessings flow ' ? No ;
they sing that when they have bagged the collection,"
said the Colonel, with the utmost naive. "What do
you say to ' Hail, Smiling Morn ' ? "

I don't quite see the point," said Mrs Braintree
politely, and with difficulty suppressing a smile.

"Well, you see, 'hail' is a Scripture word, and
smiling morn ' might be taken to allude to his lordship's
face. Cheerful countenance, you know,  
effects."

Perhaps that might not quite suit the temperance
people," said Mrs Braintree, "if that idea were to
occur to any of them. Cannot you suggest something
that would be decorous, and at the same time lively
and not too solemn ? "

What do you think of the march in the ' Prophetee
' ? " said Colonel Leppell, suddenly. " Fine air,
and the word ' Prophetee,'  just enough to give a flavour
of  of  sanctity to the affair."

"Eather too military, Colonel. The Bishop is a
quiet man, and is rather inclined to ' scuttle ' in his
manner of walking than to march. Suppose we
reserve the ' Prophetee ' for your father, Lord Hieover.
He so rarely attends meetings of this kind, that a
public recognition of his presence would be very
gratifying to the "

Harmonium ! " interrupted the Colonel. " You are
right  the 'Prophetee' will do for the Viscount : he's not
musical, and he does not know one tune from another,
but it is an aristocratic march, and every one likes it."

So the fine masterpiece of Meyerbeer was set down
for the glorification of Lord Hieover.

"As regards the Bishop," continued the Colonel,
do you think c He's a Jolly Good Fellow ' would be
too light ? It's a popular air with soldiers."

Bather ; but that would apply very well to Colonel
Guyse, who is, you tell me, to address the meeting."

True ; we'll dedicate that to Guyse when he rises
to speak. He is a jolly good fellow, and the men of
the Wurstede division all like him," returned the
officer.

"The Bishop has to be provided for," said Sarah,
and it is to be the first tune."

After ' God save the Queen '  after that. I won't
have her Majesty's tune played as a sign to clear the
benches and leave the room, as is so often the case ; it is
not at all the proper thing. 'God save the Queen ' first."

This was acceded to, and then the question of the
Bishop's musical reception was earnestly ventilated.
At length the conclusion was arrived at that the
favourite piece, " The Heavens are Telling," would bethe
thing wherewith his lordship should be received, 
sacred, not too personal, takes in everybody, and well
adapted to the instrument.

If Crasher can't play it, we'll ask the organist to
lend us one of his apprentices. They always learn on
such pieces as ' Hallelujah,' and all that," said the
Colonel.

Pupils, you mean, Colonel, not apprentices," said
Mrs Braintree, deprecatingly.

"All the same. I dish up all sucking lawyers,
musicians, and so forth as apprentices, and mean 'em
no offence. It's an old-fashioned term, and it comes
readier to me."

Mrs Braintree having vindicated the dignity of the
Precinct, graciously accepted this explanation, and then
went thoroughly into the arrangement of the musical
programme.

We must not make it too long, Colonel," the lady
insisted with good sense ; " we must not tire people."

No, I was thinking of that," replied Colonel Lep-
pell, who was quite submissive to Mrs Braintree so
long as she agreed with him ; " but there is one thing,
Basil Sheepshanks must be asked to speak : goodman,
done lots of good, but he is awful at a speech.
We must have him, for he is coming all the way from
Wurstede-cum-Woolley to be present at this meeting."

What does he do ? " inquired Mrs Braintree
sharply, who had not hitherto enjoyed the privilege
of listening to the oratory of this gentleman from
Wurstede-cum-Woolley.

Do ! " replied the Colonel viciously ; " it's what he
does not do, ma'am, that is so trying to an audience.
He hesitates, stops, loses the thread of his discourse,
never tries to raise the interest of the ladies, and when
he comes to the end of his speech, one never knows
what he has been talking about. It's a thousand
pities, for a nicer fellow never breathed, nor a more
thoroughbred gentleman ; but he will speak, or rather
bleat, in public, and it drives me wild to listen to him."

VOL. II. L

Mr Sheepshanks," said Mrs Braintree thoughtfully,
is he not the gentleman who has done so much good,
and built a seminary for poor homeless boys in the
neighbouring county ? "

That's he. Sheepshanks founded ' Scamp College,'
as I call it, and his heart and soul is in it ; in fact, he
Spends all the money his wife and her mother and the
butler allow him to have of his own patrimony on it.
He comes in a good fourth in his own household ; but
what's the odds ? he is happy, and Scamp College is a
success."

What about his speech ? " said Mrs Braintree,
bringing the Colonel back to the point.

"You see, Sheepshanks is apt to make long gaps
and sobs between his sentences, and he hesitates a
good deal also. I think some air might be played in
spasms  gently, which would draw off the attention of
the public from my friend's little defects."

Do you think Mr Sheepshanks would like that ? "
inquired Mrs Braintree, with a suspicion of doubt in
her tone.

"He ought to like it, and be thankful. Besides,
there's an opportunity of showing the unrivalled
touches which this instrument is capable of producing.
Put it before Sheepshanks that he would
act as an advertisement to the cause, and we have
him. These little harmonies need not be intrusive,
you know," continued the Colonel; "just melodious
chords swept with a light hand."

Mr Crasher would not be equal to that kind of

manipulation, would he ? " inquired Sarah, with a
grin.

Perhaps not. I'll rout up some lady ; or you
might assist in that way yourself, Miss Braintree."
This the Colonel said with some emphasis, for he
fancied he detected a disposition towards levity in
Sarah's suggestion, backed up as it was by the grin.

Some other selections of music were named, and
the programme was filled with great care, Mrs Brain-tree
wisely keeping a restraining power upon its
length.

So far, so good. Now for the British army in
general all the world over, without which you parsons
and traders of all grades would have to sing uncommonly
small. We will have ' Rule, Britannia,' for the
last, and the ' Girl he left behind him,' or perhaps the
1 British Grenadiers as the lively movement to follow.
That will finish the whole thing up splendidly." And
the Colonel, in his enthusiasm, very nearly clapped
Mrs Canon Braintree on the back as he spoke.

That lady, meanwhile, accepted " Rule, Britannia,"
with alacrity ; but she made a mental reservation to
erase the two last-named morceaux from the list as
soon as the Colonel's back was turned. " He will
never miss these in the excitement," thought she ;
and if the worst comes to the worst, Mr Bill Crasher
will be accountable. We must get in the Doxology
somewhere at the end."

Colonel Leppell soon afterwards took his leave,
after arranging that Mr Crasher should come to the

Colonel's office, where the harmonium was in waiting,
and display his prowess on that instrument. The soldier
did not appear to be particularly elated at this
prospect when communicated with by his commanding
officer ; but there was nothing else for Mr Crasher todo
than salute the Colonel, and inquire the time when
he should be in attendance.

To-morrow morning, ten o'clock sharp  just to go
over the pieces, you know. Several amateurs will
help at the meeting; but I want you to play the
greater part of the military selections, and you had
better take a turn at them in private. Westmacott
opens with an overture and ' God Save the Queen.' "

Very well, Colonel, I will do my best." And so
the man departed, wishing that he were well through
with it, and resolving, like the good fellow that he
was, to do his utmost to show off the powers of the
harmonium in the best style possible.

The practice that followed being, after the usual
difficulties that usually attend such endeavours, successfully
overcome, the harmonium was conveyed to
St Jude's schoolroom, and there displayed to the
greatest advantage. Mr Westmacott had turned out
"trumps," as Colonel Leppell expressed it, for he
had undertaken to play " God Save the Queen " and
a short overture, without fee or reward ; and, what was
more gratifying still, this gentleman had declared that
he offered his services out of respect to the military
of the town and county of Yarnee and Wurstede.

Just fancy that from the Cathedral organist," said

the staff-officer of pensioners in ecstasy to his friend
and ally, Colonel Guyse, of Wurstecle. " Depend upon
it, we shall break up the miserable little cliqueyness
of the conventional cathedral town before long, by a
strong introduction of the military element. I look
upon Westmacott very much in the light of a conversion,
 indeed I do. Why, sir, a few years ago, 
would have declared that he preferred his
services out of respect to the Bishop's wife."

But you have asked the Bishop's wife to be present
at the meeting ? " said Colonel Guyse. " I suppose she
would be reckoned as the first lady of the town ? "

I fancy the mayor's wife would claim precedence,
strictly speaking, but I am not sure, and it don't
matter. I have asked the Bishop to bring his wife and
lady friends, just as I have asked Mr Smiles the baker
to bring his wife, who is a fine-looking woman, and
very nicely mannered,  far more of a lady than "

Never mind," said Colonel Guyse ; " don't be drawing
comparisons. Now let us see what I am to do.
How many men am I to bring up from Wurstede ? "

Bring up as many as you can, and let them be the
pick of the lot. That Sergeant Armstrong for one, he
might be Goliath of Gath ; and you have a couple of
nice lads among the drums, just of a size,  they would
look well stationed at each side of the entrance-doors,
with plates in their hands, to collect the cash. All
the women like the look of a pretty boy, especially if
he be in uniform."

Colonel Guyse grinned, but wisely held his peace ;

and the two fell into ways and means, and parted in
much mutual admiration. " Kalph is a queer fellow,"
thought Colonel Guyse as he walked down the street,
"but he is thoroughly in earnest. I believe he would
20 through fire and water for his men, and I do hope
this meeting of his will go off well."

There was every chance of it, for when the day
arrived the sun shone gladly; and there was such
a muster of military, retired and otherwise, that the
streets of Yarnee glowed with colour, and the old timeworn
houses of its narrow ways seemed to laugh outright
as their brown and venerable faces were flapped
by the flags which streamed out from their diamond-paned
casements. Carriages from the country, laden
with ladies and pretty children and flowers, poured in
hourly ; and everybody went to lunch with everybody
else,  a general feeling of amusement being mixed up
with the universal sympathy with Ralph and his
cause.

That gallant officer drove in from Blythe, his
famous rakish-looking coach being literally crammed
inside and outside with handsome young faces of both
sexes,  all of them ready to swear that day that, after
all, there was no better man than their governor. The
four horses went so well, that Dick gravely asserted
that their instinct must have impressed the fact upon
the whole team that they were going to a special
meeting wherein decorum was the pervading element.
Lord Hieover actually had come out to Blythe from
the hotel whereat he usually put up, in a nice little

carriage drawn by a pair of pony, in order to fetch
Adelaide, and to convey her in peace and quiet, as the
Viscount said, " to the scene of action." A respectable-looking
groom attended this vehicle, which the old
soldier of eighty years drove himself, and drove
well.

Alick wandered about the town, looked approvingly
on all, and then lunched at the Braintree's hospitable
table. He afterwards went and changed a sovereign
(buying a quire of writing-paper as an excuse), taking
care to have the principal part of the change in
shilling pieces. One crown he put aside carefully,
reserving it for the collection should he be specially
moved to extravagant expenditure; but if a shilling
would pass muster, Alick resolved to bestow that coin
and no more on what he considered to be a whimsy
of his brother Ralph.

As the hands of the town clock veered towards the
hour of two, the little playground which surrounded
St. Jude's schoolroom was filled with an unwonted
company  to wit, a number of the pensioners drawn
up in a square, and their band playing " Hearts of
Oak " with a vigour and timbre enough to electrify
a tortoise. Soldiers in different uniforms, amongst
which that of the Yeomanry Cavalry of Yarneshire
predominated, perambulated the streets in all directions,
and finally concentrated themselves into the
playground, waiting respectfully till the company
should assemble and file up the staircase which led
to the schoolroom, and which, prettily decorated and

well arranged as to space, was very soon closely
packed with a goodly assembly,  the harmonium
occupying the floor in front of the platform, and
nearly vis-a-vis to the first row of seats. Mrs
Braintree had taken care that the first chair on the
left of this row should be reserved for the occupation
of the Bishop's wife. This lady soon arrived, bringing
her husband under her wing, and as soon as that
gentle and good dignitary ascended the platform, the
meeting was opened with the formalities usual at the
like gatherings. After a little whispering and polite
aiding," Ralph was moved to the chair, wherein he
shone resplendent, and made the Bishop look very
much like his own private chaplain.

Then Mr Westmacott, at a sign from the chairman,
played "God Save the Queen;" but as the whole
audience liberally contributed a hearty vocal ohli-
gate to this fine air, it cannot be said that the merits
of the harmonium could be fairly represented by the
first trial. " The Heavens are Telling," which followed,
gave, however, the fullest evidence that the harmonium
was equal to any fair requirement of its powers ; and
as this piece had turned into the " overture," which
was especially intended for the glorification of the
Bishop, his lordship came forward and avowed his
conviction that he only expressed the opinion of those
present, when he emphatically declared that Colonel
Leppell deserved the thanks of the community at
large for introducing this noble instrument of music.
Nor did he forget to mention the great discrimination

which that gallant officer had displayed in the selection
of this article  "for," said the Bishop, as he
concluded his address, "we all know there are harmoniums
and harmoniums."

Then came a speech from Colonel Guyse, which
was much applauded, as that favourite officer of the
Wurstede Militia expatiated upon the right of the
soldiers to have good music in their barrack chapel,
and the privilege which it must be to the inhabitants
of Yarnee and its neighbourhood to be invited to pay
for it. During this address Mr Westmacott, having
another engagement, went his way, generously leaving
a sovereign in the plate as he passed through the door.

It was now Mr Crasher's turn to " preside at the
instrument ; " and as that good fellow took his seat,
the knowledge that he was nearly opposite the Bishop's
wife did not tend to raise his self-confidence, knowing,
as he did, that the ear and eye of a severe amateur
were upon him. He, however, pulled himself together
under the benign smile with which Mrs Canon Brain-tree
greeted his appearance ; and he played a few
chords with the desperate audacity which often electrifies
timid people into action when they find themselves
in situations from whence escape is impossible.
The piece to be now played was the march from the
Prophetee ; " and as this was intended to compliment
Lord Hieover especially, Mrs Brain tree, with a view
to awakening that nobleman to his responsibilities,
poked him on the arm to draw his attention to the
performance. The Viscount, who had forgotten all

about it, and not having the faintest idea of what thea
lion's wife would be at, thought it was required of
him to back up Mr Crasher, and so called out, "Very
good, ver  ry good ; go on, my man ! "

This, as it proved, was easier said than done.
Crasher had played about four bars of the march,
when, to his own amazement as well as to the consternation
of the company, the instrument suddenly
took matters into its own hands, and precipitated itself
into the depths of the Hundredth Psalm without
the faintest sign of hesitation or compromise. " Not
that now !" called out Colonel Leppell,  "a little later
on, please: don't you see that the thing from the
Prophet ' comes on next ? " Despite this reminder,
the air of the Hundredth Psalm resounded in all its
fulness to the very end,  the unfortunate Crasher
mean while pulling out and driving in sundry stops,
in order to reduce the instrument to silence. A suggestion,
emanating from Mrs Braintree, ran along the
line of the front-row seats, and was whispered to Mr
Crasher,  "Take your feet off the sounding-board,
and push in all the stops." This the performer, purple
in the face from annoyance and discomfiture, immediately
proceeded to do, but his efforts were fruitless,
and the harmonium was now in full swing for the
Austrian Hymn. Every one looked towards "the
chair," the occupant of which was speechless from
amazement.

.Air Sheepshanks came to the rescue, and assured
the audience that this contretemps was only the matter

of a few moments ; the instrument would soon run
itself out, &c, &c. Meanwhile he would suggest to
Colonel Leppell that Mr Stokes might be invited to
address the meeting. That gentleman, he believed,
had promised to contribute a paper upon organs from
their invention to the latest time. Here Mr Sheep-shanks
amiably remarked that now was the fitting
time for Mr Stokes to ventilate the matter, and he
expressed himself convinced that the knowledge
that Mr Stokes possessed of the subject would
eventuate in " a lucid ex  ex  planation of
the peculiar conduct of the instrument before them,
which he would designate as a  a  musical va 

l o J

vagary.

Mr Stokes scowled at Mr Sheepshanks, and was
about to reply " that he was not going to lecture in
such a din," when the harmonium changed tune again,
and wailed out the melancholy psalm known as " St
Bride's," the words of the psalm being, " From lowest
depths of woe." This was too much for the audience ;
the whole assemblage literally shouted with laughter,
and nobody seemed to enjoy the fun more than did
the Bishop, who, in a gentle " aside," proposed to
Colonel Guyse to have the instrument removed.
Just give it another chance," said " the chair," to
whom this suggestion had been conveyed; "it can't
go on for ever  confound it : and Sheepshanks, do say
something to keep things going  a word here and

there. Tell 'em about the effect of music on Sea

your industrial place ; do, there's a good fellow ! "

Mr Sheepshanks, who was a good fellow in every
sense of the term, complied ; and as the tune then at
work was in a low minor key, he succeeded in making
1 himself audible. And whether it was from the stimulus
of the excitement, or from the protection of the accompaniment,
certain it is that Mr Sheepshanks delivered
himself of a capital address, and was never known to
hesitate as little in his speech. He received a regular
ovation ; and as the harmonium had now entered upon
the " Portuguese Hymn," he sensibly proposed that the
meeting should turn itself into a sacred concert, and
that all should stand up and sing, "0 come, all ye
faithful." The audience heartily concurred, and the
proposition was acted upon with the greatest celerity,
great fear being exhibited lest the harmonium should
get too much ahead, and have it out before the first
vers s well through. The air being a popular

one, it was twice repeated, and so the "Portuguese
Hymn " went with a will. The sweet " Sicilian
Mariner's Hymn " followed, and this too the harmonium
graciously repeated.

During the singing of this last, Kalph's mind was
greatly exercised as to what to do with Mr Stokes.
He must read his paper, and in peace," whispered he
to Colonel Guyse, who stood near him. "Stokes
has come a long way to oblige me. He's a highly
scientific man  don't care a rush for 's
looking as black as thunder. What shall we
do?"

Tell off three or four men, and have the thing put

into the playground at once," replied Colonel Guyse,
practically.

Then Ralph rose to his feet, and made it known to
the assembly that he was not the man to deprive them
of the benefit of the able and scientific address which
Mr Stokes, of half the literary societies under heaven,
was there expressly to deliver  " the scientific address
of the programme, in fact " (here Mr Stokes bowed,
and his stern visage relaxed into a grin). As the
harmonium could not be quenched, continued the
Colonel, he would request their patience for a few
minutes, whilst the offending instrument was conveyed
into the playground below.

Three men, at a signal from Colonel Guyse, at once
lifted the harmonium away, headed by Mr Crasher,
who had been privately enjoined to keep watch and
ward over this treasure in the place of its deportation ;
and then Mr Stokes came forward and delivered an
able and very interesting short lecture on " Sounding
Instruments," from the first organ on record, unto the
apparently unmanageable specimen which even then
was testifying its powers beneath the rug which, in
order to deaden its sounds, some one had thrown over
it. Notwithstanding this precaution, the breeze wafted
the subdued strains of the tune on hand through the
open window.

Mr Stokes then explained that some harmoniums
were constructed with a barrel within, which, being-wound
up and set for a certain number of tunes, could
be used like a chamber-organ, without any touch of

the hand whatsoever. " It is possible," he said, " that
our friend has been wound up, but the works being
new and stiff, they have not got themselves into proper
action until the manipulations of the performers, and
possibly the drawing out of the various stops, had
loosened the machinery, and set the interior mechanism
going." This, on closer inspection, proved to bethe
case ; and Colonel Leppell discovered, to his great
delight, that the instrument, which was the object at
once of so much solicitude and annoyance, was really
a most valuable acquisition.

As Mr Stokes concluded, the harmonium below
struck up the Doxology in its loudest and most strident
tones. To step down from the platform, and
roar out at the window, " Take off that rug immediately
! " was but the work of a moment for Colonel
Leppell. " Now let's have the Doxology with the full
benefit of the harmonium accompaniment," said he,
addressing the meeting. " I am sure our friends will
give as heartily as they can sing ; and so here goes 
1 Praise God, from whom all blessings flow.' The
plates will be handed round, ladies and gentlemen ;
the plan saves a crush at the door, and I believe the
collection will benefit by free circulation."

The pretty drummer-boys then handed the plates
to every individual present, whilst the Doxology was
being sung with stentorian emphasis and expression,
the harmonium graciously going over the tune to
the extent of three verses.

The collection was soon gathered, and the plates

containing the money were placed on a little table
which stood on the platform immediately in front of
the chair. Then a vote of thanks to the chairman
was proposed. This passed with all the honours ; and
then Colonel Leppell rose to his feet and delivered his
valedictory speech  a speech so characteristic and so
remarkable, that for years afterwards it was remembered
as the very pith and salt of the oratory which
had been poured forth on the occasion of the Harmonium
Fund meeting at Yarnee.

It was impossible," the Colonel said, " to give adequate
expression to the feelings of pride and elation
which animated his whole being as he looked round
and surveyed such an assemblage of beauty, learning,
talent, and excellence, which he might say, in the language
of King Solomon, encompassed him about on
every side. Haw !  yes, it was a good meet, a very
good meet, and he had no doubt that a nearer acquaintance
with the collection would entirely confirm this
happy impression. Whilst referring to this last most
important subject, he would ask one of his friends to
reckon up the amount in the plates whilst he read out
a list of donations which had been sent to him by
persons who could not attend the meeting. Here they
were : First, Mr and Mrs Summerbell, two guineas.
These good farmers, you see, although they are always
abusing the times and the weather, can stump up
handsomely at a pinch. Secondly, old Mr Kingsford
of the Bays, one pound. It might have been more,
but he is a worthy good friend. (' Hear, hear,' from

colonel Guyse, vigorously, who sought to smother the
first observation relative to this donation.)

 Now comes a noble gift ten pounds from the old

wo lady, I mean, at Catalonia, Miss Elmore. She's

;, tramp, that old ca lady, for she always helps

the soldiers ; and though she never stirs abroad, her
presence is always felt, my dear friends felt by her
good deeds haw hum good deeds doing good
works, and never talking about 'em. People do wrong
to run down old maids; they are great helps and
blessings in the aggregate. God bless 'em all, both
rich and poor. (' Hear, hear,' from the Bishop.) Here,
again, is a most generous gift, although the amount is
small  ten shillings and sixpence from the Reverend
Abbe Bouse, Eoman Catholic priest, with thanks to
Colonel Leppell for allowing the Catholic soldiers to
attend mass so regularly. Now I call this a large-hearted,
kind, unsolicited act ; and I should just like
to hear any one running down the Abbe to me  I'd
make it hot for 'em. (' Trust you for that, Colonel,'
roared a voice from the door.) Well, here is one
pound from the head huntsman of the Y. Y. H., who
can't be here because he is down with rheumatism 
haw. I am sure you will all wish this good Christian
many a run over the country yet. Now here come
two pounds and sentence, collected in pence, and
two shillings and sixpence from an individual who
sums himself a ' Converted Cobbler.' Wish he had
given me his address ; we might have all put a little
shoe-mending in his way. However, he brings up the

rear of the special donations. Now let us see what
the collection amounts to."

A slip of paper was handed to the speaker, who,
with a face radiant with satisfaction, announced that
the munificent sum of eighty-three pounds nine shillings
had been contributed by the assemblage there
present.

Whilst expressing my warm thanks to all for this
generous help," the Colonel went on to say, " I should
be wanting in gratitude  haw  gratitude and common
courtesy, did I not specially thank my fellow-worker,
Mrs Canon Braintree, for the assistance she
has rendered me in this business. This good lady
deserves a vote of thanks, for she sticks to her work
all round, and keeps residence, and spends the income
 or Canon Braintree's income, it's all the same
in the place, a virtue which has not always been
practised ; but that is neither here nor there. Mrs
Braintree has devoted the best part of her life to
pious  pious  well, pious begging ; and to her honour
it may be said that there is no better manager in the
way of getting money out of people's pockets  in fact,
she has grown grey in the service."

Here no one could repress a smile, for Mrs Brain-tree
wore a coffee-coloured front, which was as often
awry as not, and which was certainly innocent of any
attempt at imposition ; so she naturally swelled with
indignation as the Colonel repeated with triumphant
elation : " Yes, grown grey in the service ; and the inhabitants
of Yarnee were to be congratulated on such

VOL. II. M

an acquisition. The wife of a Canon of Yarnee Cathedral
going about among the poor, and doing her duty
as any other clergyman's wife, was a refreshing sight,
and long might this worthy woman be spared to fill
the post she represented so well."

What about the Canon ? " called out a voice from
the lower end of the room.

Ralph glared at the spot from whence this irreverent
inquiry proceeded, but not being able to discover
the offender, he determined to leave personalities alone,
and proceeded to conclude his peroration with what
he intended to be an overwhelming tribute to the
ladies in general.

I cannot conclude," the Colonel said, " without
tendering my warmest thanks to the ladies for their
presence here to-day. They have given a warmth
and brightness to this meeting, and have made up
for any  haw  any disappointment which the harmonium
may have occasioned. Without the aid of
the ladies, this wonderful instrument could never
have been purchased ; and I am sure I express the
opinion of every man here, when I say that without
them life would be without music  haw  and  haw
veal without salt. The women are the working-bees
of humanity, adding honey to the wax ; they are
the flowers in our path of life, and without them 
without them  haw  without them, not a man of us
would be here ! "

Three rattling cheers for the ladies and Colonel
Leppell, and one for everybody else, were the spontaneous

results of this last speech, and Colonel Lep-
pell descended from the platform covered with glory.
The "meeting," meanwhile, poured out of the room
and down the staircase, making directly for the harmonium,
which, divested of its rug, stood very much
like an unrepentant sinner in the middle of the playground.


Orders had been given that this recreant instrument
should be conveyed at once in a cart to the
barracks ; but although it was popularly supposed to
be pumped out, it did not allow itself to be lifted into
that vehicle without displaying a parting evidence of
its vitality. Just as it was being hoisted from the
ground, it emitted so hideous a squeak that the
men employed to convey it away nearly dropped it
from sheer terror. A stop had been inadvertently left
out, and the sounding-board being pressed in lifting
the instrument towards the cart, these had conjointly
caused the noise, which, for the nonce, had seriously
startled the bystanders. At length, amid laughter
and cheers, it was safely deposited in the cart ; some
branches of laurel, which had decorated the schoolroom,
were thrown over it, and the vehicle was bowled
away in great force by two youngsters, who drove at
a slashing pace, and finally discharged their cargo at
the barracks, with the valedictory parting that they
wished that blessed harmonium would do 'em much
good, and never take to squeaking when Colonel Lep-
pell was preaching."

CHAPTER IX.

THE ANGEL OF DEATH.

"Adelaide," said Lord Hieover, after the universal
greetings and hand-shaking had somewhat subsided,
I don't want to attend this dinner which the officers
of Yarnee are giving to their brethren of Wurstede,
and, what is more, I won't attend it. The fact is, I
public dinners, and I am feeling my age also.
"Will you think me very intrusive if I ask you to
allow me to return to Hunter's Lodge with you, and
remain the night there ? I can drive you back, and
Alick and Ralph can make my excuses, or perhaps I
had better write a note at the hotel. Can you make
room for me?"

: Most willingly," answered the Viscount's daughter-in-law,
who, it had been universally remarked, had
not looked so handsome for years as she then looked.
Mrs Leppell was not only becomingly attired, but her
cheek was tinged with a faint soft bloom, and an unwonted
animation brightened her features.

Make room for you ? most willingly," she repeated,

in answer to his lordship. " You know that our accommodation
is by no means luxurious. Ralph will
be as delighted as I am, when he knows that you are
staving beneath our roof."

But about that horrid coach, and the people that
came in it," said the old gentleman, in dread that he
might be brought in contact with that vehicle, or still
worse, with some of it's occupants,  " does it return to
Blythe ? "

Ralph arranged with Mr Langton that he should
drive the coach back, and deposit the seat-holders
at their several homes. I hope you will not object to
Clara coming with us in the pony carriage. I don't
like her to return among that wild crew without her
father."

You are quite right. Henderson can get a horse
from the hotel, and ride after us with my dressing
things. Ralph, I take it, makes his toilet at the
barracks ? "

Yes ; he always does so when he dines in town."

Well, we will have a quiet little dinner together,
which I shall enjoy thoroughly. The crush and heat
of that room have made me long to get into your
sweet garden again. Allow me to bring some fish ;
it can easily be put under the seat of the carriage
without inconveniencing anybody."

The pleasure conferred by the homeliness of this proposition,
together with its being so totally unexpected,
imparted a vivacity to Mrs Leppell's manner which of
late years had rarely been witnessed. She acquiesced

in the arrangement with thanks and her brightest
smile; yet the water glistened in her glorious eyes
from the intensity of her feelings. Her husband's
lather, for the first time for a lengthened period,
had addressed her by her Christian name, and had
proposed to come as a guest under their roof ; surely
there was going, at the last, to be peace and forgiveness
amongst all the .members of the house of Hieover.
Was not her heart still palpitating at the remembrance
of the affectionate nod and smile with which
Ralph had greeted her as he descended from the
platform, amid the ringing cheers which were excited,
perhaps, more as a recognition of his earnest
goodwill than as a tribute either to his oratory or
to his tact ? The combination of these auspicious
circumstances certainly caused Mrs Leppell to feel
happier and more hopeful than she had done for
many a long clay ; and so she gathered her young
daughter and her purchases into the little carriage,
called at the confectioner's as a precaution against
her cook, and then drove to the hotel, where she
picked up the Viscount, and so happily back to her
own home.

Shortly after the little dinner had come off, Adelaide
found herself walking in the garden with her
father-in-law's arm within her own, discoursing of
those terrible ways and means, which had been the
lions in her path during the whole length of her
married life. The Viscount first spoke of Duke ; his
language was decided but not unkind. " The restraint

Duke was now under was the best thing for him,"
said Lord Hieover ; " and after all, the running away
with an heiress was no moral sin. He hoped much
from the young wife ; and he declared himself disposed
to think well of her from the way in which she had
worked not only to remain with Duke, but also to give
up her income for his use. " Foolish thing to do, of
course," commented the Viscount, " but still, it shows
that the girl is thoroughly unselfish. I hate your
calculating, worldly wise young people."

Adelaide listened in silence, pondering on the saddest
part of Duke's career, hoping, perhaps, that his
moral sins might never be laid bare in the grandfather's
sight. She was, however, thankful when the
subject was turned in the direction of her other son
Dick.

He is a fine lad," the Viscount said,  " a very fine
lad, and it is time he went to another school. Rugby,
I should say ; good discipline there, and no nonsense.
Xow if you like, I will undertake to keep Dick at
Rugby for three years, paying all expenses. Don't
thank me, consult Ralph ; it will do if you let me
know in a week. I feel that my clays are numbered,
and it is high time that something should be done
for the younger members of the family. I have left
Ralph an annuity ; it is the wiser and the better
course. You know well, though you are too good
to admit it, that if Ralph had ten thousand a-year,
he would spend twenty thousand. It may be a satisfaction
to you to be assured that I have made some

provision for him, and also that you and your children
have not been forgotten."

She could not reply: she could only press the old
man's arm, and inwardly bless the Father of all who
had so touched the springs of benevolence in the Viscount's
heart. The manner of the bequest was, perhaps,
quite as grateful to her as the bequest itself:
be that as it may, a load heavy as lead was at one
stroke lifted from off her mind. The sigh which she
heaved was a sigh of relief, and the tears which she
could not quite restrain were tears of happiness,  the
drops which the sun of human kindness had turned to
dew.

A little after ten o'clock the Viscount retired, saying,
as he was about to do so  " What about Kalph ?
who is waiting up for him ? "

I shall do so this evening," Mrs Leppell answered,
for Ben Eifles has been sent into Yarnee to help
wait at the dinner. It is seldom that I sit up alone,
but I shall do so to-night, as Ralph is sure not to be
late : so many of the guests will have to get away
by the last mail, that the Colonel must needs return
early for lack of company almost."

"After my man has finished with me, he may as
well sit up. I don't like to think that you will be
waiting alone," Lord Hieover replied.

"Don't trouble about that; it will be only an
hour or so at latest, and Ralph has the dog-cart,
a fast mare, and Ben Eifles. The latter is a great
help," she said with a smile ; " he manages Ralph so

well, and never lets him stay late at dinners if he
can help it. I have several things to do before I
go to bed, and so time will not press heavily. Goodnight,
sir ; thank yon heartily for making this day a
red-letter day to me."

God bless yon, my dear daughter," was the reply.
"Good night: if Ralph is late, just go to bed and
trust to somebody hearing the bell. Good night once
more."

Mrs Leppell soon afterwards went to her mother's
room, and saw that both invalid and nurse were in
their beds, and, as she thought, quietly at rest. Thinking
that Lady Asher was asleep, she, after looking at
her for some moments, moved softly away ; but the
old lady called her back, and putting out her hand,
drew her daughter towards her. " Kiss me, my dear,"
she said ; " you look so well  so like what you were
when you were a girl. God bless you, Adelaide ; you
are a good dutiful daughter."

Leaving her mother's room with this benison on
her head, Mrs Leppell made her way to the rooms
where her boys and girls were sleeping,  stooping
over them, yearning over them, but through great love
not touching them. " Poor darlings ! " she murmured ;
"they are hot and tired, and are so restless that a
feather-touch might rouse them. God bless them ! "
Then she sped to the nursery rooms above, where
her little children, fresh and open-mouthed, slept
soundly and well. These she covered and kissed
tenderly, standing by their cribs, and wondering if

the angels in heaven could be fairer and sweeter
than they. Then back to the drawing-room, where
she stood some minutes before an exquisite crayon
portrait of Mary Clavering. "My heavenly Moll!
AIi, will your life be happy?" she whispered, "so
gentle, so loving as you are. Ah no, I cannot, I
will not think that sorrow can touch you : to God's
keeping I wholly commit you, my dear, dear Mary."
Taking a tea-rose from a vase, and holding it close to
her and caressing it as if she folded her daughter in
her arms, she sat down in a low chair to think, and
from thinking she fell a-dreaming till all things were
lost to her remembrance.

Two hours later Lord Hieover's attendant was
aroused by hearing Colonel Leppell's voice outside
the house, loudly expressing wonder that no one had
ans the summons at the bell. Knowing that

his father was in the house, the Colonel did not
in consequence employ his usual emphatic and peremptory
language, nor stamp about,. nor hammer on
the door with his whip, as he possibly would have
done had Hunter's Lodge held none but its usual
inmates. Still the appeals at the bell were vigorous,
and as no response came, Mr Henderson, who had
been aroused easily, in consequence of sleeping in a
strange bed, concluded to think that Mrs Leppell,
having been kept up longer than she expected, had
retired to her room, and left her husband's admission
to chance. Consequently the man hastened to open
the front door, begging the Colonel, as he did so, to

enter as quietly as possible,  "for his lordship," he
said, " if startled out of his first sleep, seldom rested
again till daybreak."

I suppose Mrs Leppell has gone to bed," said the
Colonel, under his breath. " No, she must be in the
drawing-room, I see a light there,  unless the lamp
has been left burning for me." As he spoke, he
strode through the hall and entered the room.

His first act was to turn the light of the lamp to
its full strength, just looking cursorily about, evidently
not expecting to find his wife there. It was her
usual custom to leave a light for him in one of the
sitting-rooms, on those occasions when her husband
would probably return through the stables, or be admitted
by an outdoor servant.

Suddenly the bright colour of her evening dress
caught his eye, and thus attracted, he exclaimed,
Why, Adelaide, asleep, old woman ? Here I am,
safe and sound ; come, wake up, and let us be off to
bed  it's past twelve o'clock ! "

The rigidity of her figure and the stony silence
alarmed him. " Adelaide," he said, in a low frightened
tone, advancing close to her, " are you ill ? What's
this ? House up, I tell you, Adelaide."

His words appeared to drop harshly one by one,
for Colonel Leppell was one of the number of those
people who become angry in proportion as they become
frightened. This lasted but a moment ; he
looked again, then touched her hand as it lay on
her lap with the tea-rose clasped tightly within the

fingers. That touch told all the tale,  Ralph knew
that his wife was dead.

How he got back into the hall and fell there prone
to the earth, he never remembered,  never knew that,
ere consciousness left him, a strange wild sobbing cry,
a summons for help, burst from his lips, which awoke
many of the household in terror, and brought Ben
Rifles (who had been outside sitting in the dog-cart
awaiting final orders) like lightning into the house, to
cast himself clown by his side and wrench open the
fastenings of his dress. Never had he discerned his
old father, more grey than pale, bending over him
with horror-stricken gaze, feebly inquiring what all
this might mean ; and the old man's faithful attendant
gently alluring him away from the place wherein
Death was master. Never perceived he that Pro-there,
with the vigilance and intuition of much experience,
had darted from the room of her mistress,
in the full conviction that her fears entertained for
some time past were now suddenly and most painfully
realised, and that something was very wrong with
Mrs Leppell. The woman just looked at the Colonel
as he lay on the hall-floor, walked straight into the
drawing-room, and went up and stood in the presence
of the dead.

Poor darling ! " she said, in a broken voice ; " dear,
sweet lady, she has left us. I am not surprised, Mr
Henderson,  I have long expected this. Ah yes,
disease of the heart has done it."

The terrified Henderson, who had followed Mrs

Prothero into the room, begged her to advise him
how to act. " The Viscount won't leave his son," he
whispered,  " he thinks he is in a dangerous fit. I
dare not tell him Mrs Leppell is dead ; and we must
keep him out of this room.

Prothero glanced into the hall, where the Viscount
and Ben Eifles were still engaged, the one tending,
the other watching over, the now motionless form of
Colonel Leppell. She turned the lamp partially down,
and then, with Henderson's assistance, placed the cold
dead body on a sofa and reverently covered the face :
they came out together, and Prothero locked the door.

Going straight to Lord Hieover, she begged him to
return to his room, for she had something to say to
him. " The Colonel will recover soon," she said, " and
Ben must drive into Yarnee at once for the doctor : Mr
Henderson, I am sure, will raise the Colonel into a sitting
position and attend to him." Then she drew the
poor old Viscount into his room and told him all.

It seemed abrupt, but it was the right thing to do.
Alarmed as Lord Hieover naturally was, the knowledge
of the real truth explained of itself the reason
of this sudden seizure ; and though he persisted in
returning to watch his son, the vague expression of
alarm and apprehension had vanished from his face.
Further assistance being summoned, Colonel Leppell
was with great difficulty undressed and placed on his
father's bed ; the anxiety concerning his state materially
assisted in diverting the Viscount's mind from
the terrible calamity which had befallen the family.

Indeed, in fussing about in a half distracted manner,
and seriously impeding Mrs Prothero and Henderson
in their good .offices, the Viscount contracted a fixed
idea that his visit at that time to Hunter's Lodge was
a special guiding of Providence, and further, was fully
persuaded that nothing could be done without his advice
and aid.

Pass we over in the silence of sympathy the surprise
which fell upon all, both far and near, when the
reason for the mourning aspect of Hunter's Lodge was
given abroad. The frantic grief of the children, the
dumb stricken sorrow of the older folk, the lamentations
of the servants, as they wondered how the
house was to get on in the future,  it was all so sincere
and so sad, that those outside this sorrow felt it
kinder, for a while at least, to keep away.

He giveth his beloved sleep," said good Mr Fane,
as he strove to comfort the bereaved shrinking mother ;
and then he went to the grandfather and reminded
him of Mary and Mr Clavering. " Shall I telegraph
for them ? " he inquired ; " it will break the child's
heart if she is not in time to see her mother once
more. What is their address ? "

No one knew. The last letter had announced that
they were going into some out-of-the-way place in
Styria ; none could say what the address was, and all
were ignorant of the whereabouts of the letter which
contained this information. A conjecture was hazarded
that it might be permissible to search the
Colonel's den ; but even in this misery it was thought

better to wait and see if Colonel Leppell would be ina
condition to issue his own orders ; if this were impossible,
then Lord Hieover must act. Uncle Alick
had been sent for, but he had gone to Wurstede with
Colonel Guyse.

The lapse of a few hours brought return of sense to
Colonel Leppell, in so far as the full comprehension
of what had occurred, together with the responsibilities
which his sudden bereavement had cast upon
him, were concerned ; but as to any active management
or capability of issuing orders, he was as helpless
as the youngest child in the nursery above.

He seemed to entertain absolute horror of burying
his wife. She was dead, that he knew and understood
; but she was in the house still, and near him.
To carry her away and hide her in the earth, out of
his sight for evermore ! it must not be done  it was
not to be spoken of. And so, declining all comfort,
he turned his face to the wall ; and refusing all solace,
he mourned bitterly.

Thus two clays passed wearily away. Alick Leppell
had come post-haste to Hunter's Lodge, and wisely
persuaded his father to return to his home,  for the
first excitement being over, the old man was beginning
to miss his accustomed comforts, and to become
querulous and discontented. The manner of the former
was so kind towards Clara, that the girl began to think
that Uncle Alick had been sadly misrepresented and
misunderstood : she, however, could not persuade her
father to admit his brother to his presence.

I will come again the day after tomorrow," said
.Air Leppell, in answer to Clara's expressions of regret.
Poor Ralph hardly knows what he is about, I daresay
; lie will look up in a few hours. Tell him I have
persuaded the Viscount to return to Hieover."

The imperative necessities of the situation, however,
demanded that Colonel Leppell should exert himself.
Mrs Brain tree had called and declared that the Colonel
must be roused, and even offered to stay at Hunter's
Lodge and direct matters till some of the female
relatives could arrive. This threat had a very pronounced
effect, for as soon as Mrs Braintree's propositions
in the guise of a message reached Palpi's ears,
he was stimulated into decided and vigorous action.

I'll have no woman ordering and directing here,"
said he. "I suppose Mrs Braintree thinks, because I
allowed her head in the harmonium business, that she
is going to reign supreme in my house. She's a very
good person, no doubt, but I don't like your managing
clergymen. My compliments, and say I am much
obliged, but my daughter and Mrs Prothero are quite
sufficient for my needs, with a lady for whom I am
going to send ; and mind, don't let in any more visitors."
So saying, the widower shot into his den and banged
the door of that retreat.

I am so glad he's cross and put out," said Mrs
Prothero, drawing comfort from these symptoms.
When men like your father, Miss Clara, get very
meek and mild in their illnesses or in their troubles,
it's often all up with them."

Do you think you could get papa to make some
arrangements about  about  you know,  about the
funeral ? "

Don't cry, my child," said Prothero, who, good soul,
suffered as much as any of them; "don't upset me,
there's a clear, or I shall never be able to get through
my duties. If I break down, what will you dear children
do ? "

Ah, what indeed ! " said poor Clara. " You are the
only person who is not afraid of papa."

I am going to him now," returned Prothero, " for
I am so anxious to get Mary's address (I can't call her
Mrs Clavering) ; and we must see who is to be invited
to the funeral : it's dreadful to speak of, I know, but
it must be done."

Trembling, and really very nervous, Prothero nevertheless
assumed a business-like manner, and set her
face as a flint as she knocked at the door of the den.
Like a true woman placed in the like circumstances,
she did not plunge into her business at once, but
approached by zigzags.

Oh Colonel," said she, " a telegram has arrived
from the hotel in Paris where dear Ma Mrs Clavering
was last. Her present address is unknown there,
but I have been thinking that Mr Glascott or Miss
Clavering ought to have it. Had we not better send
to them ? besides, he "  alluding to Mr Glascott  " he
ought to be asked to attend the  to attend down here,
Miss Clavering is a near connection of the family
now."

VOL. II. n

Colonel Leppell, to the surprise of Prothero, answered
her quietly, and even gently. " You are right ; send a
telegram to Mr Glascott at once, his bank address will
be the safer. And now tell Panes to take the dog-cart,
and drive over to Pinnacles and bring Miss Panshawe
back here. Tell her she must come. She is the very
person for me to have in the house. I mean no offence
to you, Botheroo,  you are invaluable ; but Lady Asher
keeps your hands full now. I don't want to see Mr
Fanshawe  still less his wife; I won't see 'em, so
they need not trouble to come with their daughter."

Miss Clara had a kind letter from Mr Panshawe
this morning, sir ; he offers to come here at once if he
can be of any service or comfort," replied Prothero.

He can't be  nobody can but Lillian ; we look
upon her as one of the family, and she is so like her,
you know. Ah, so like ! "

Prothero did know, and, despite the sorrow and
solemnity of the time, a thought flashed into her
mind.

It is not impossible that she may presently become
one of us in right good earnest ; it would be just like
the Colonel to make that girl mistress of his house
in a few months' time." As instantaneously, Mrs
Prothero chased the thought back to its source,
ascribing it on the spot to a prompting of Satan :
notwithstanding, it did not occur to her that the
lady in question might entertain her own view of the
matter, should it ever be submitted to her consideration.


Well, sir," said the attendant, after a gulp in which
she conscientiously repressed Satan and his promptings,
" Ben Rifles will be as good as an answer to Mr
Fanshawe's note, unless you would like to write a line
yourself."

No ; I don't like, and I won't be bothered. Clara
can answer the note, and just you send Rifles here at
once."

Mrs Prothero lingered a moment in the hope of
getting speech regarding some very pressing arrangements,
but receiving no encouragement, and further,
being desired to look for Mr Glascott's address in the
visitor's book, and to send a telegram to that gentleman
without delay, she wisely opined to obey her
orders, and for all else to trust to Providence without
reservation of any kind.

It's useless my saying anything more to him,"
mused Prothero ; " Miss Fanshawe is sure to come, and
it is just as well,  she can manage him, and all the responsibilities
will fall upon her. She's never meddlesome,
that's one comfort; and if she can induce the
Colonel to do as he ought to do, it will be a blessing.
There's no other way of getting my poor dear peaceably
buried ; but oh ! I long for Mary to be here."

So Prothero hied to Lady Asher's apartment and
wrote out the telegram intended for Mr Glascott.
Then with a sore heart she set herself to collect
together all the black raiment she could find in the
house, with the view of practising the domestic
economy of cutting down what was available and

turning it into the mourning gear of the younger children,
and to carry out the art of " keeping up appearances,"
which in all impecunious families, on such an
occasion, is more or less a matter of much anxiety
and forethought.

Happily for us all, perhaps, the most trivial demands
of life are strong enough to wean us from overwhelming
sorrow, and to keep us in remembrance
that grief for the dead must, in externals at least,
give way to the requirements of the living. Strong
in her duty, this faithful servant did her utmost to
lighten the expenses which must now necessarily fall
upon Colonel Leppell in reference to mourning and
burial. As she contrived and worked, she drew a
happy augury from the visit of Mr Alick Leppell the
evening before, and from the delicate manner in which
he had persuaded Lord Hieover to return home without
letting the old man suspect that this was done to
relieve the family from the extra trouble which his
presence necessarily entailed. The patient manner in
which Mr Leppell received his brother's refusal to
admit him, and his promise of coming again, all
greatly mollified the ill opinion which Prothero had
certainly entertained against that gentleman.

Three years had elapsed since Alexander Leppell
had put his foot in his younger brother's house : there
had never been any positive quarrel between them,
but annoyances had occurred, arising from the frequent
demands made by both Ralph and his son
Marmaduke upon the purse and credit of the Viscount

and himself. Thus their intercourse had become
gradually less frequent, and was at the time of Miss
Leppell's marriage so rare, that it was hardly to be
wondered that the majority of their acquaintance lent
themselves to the opinion that a serious estrangement
was in force betwixt the denizens of Hieover Grange
and Hunter's Lodge.

Lord Hieover's late attentions to his daughter-in-law
were at this time gratefully remembered by poor
Ralph, and perhaps his chief comfort lay in the knowledge
that Adelaide, on the last day of her life, had
been treated with marked respect by his father ; and
the recollection of her happy handsome face, as he
last saw it, brought with it a world of solace and
relief.

The time was not yet when the conscience of
Colonel Leppell would reproach him for the many
times he had treated her carelessly, if not unkindly.
At this juncture he was far beyond recognising aught
else than that she was lying dead,  strong and beautiful
in her gracious middle age ; whilst her mother,
afflicted and pallid, lay moaning on her sick couch,
weary of life and longing for release.

Then he bethought him of Lillian Fanshawe  the
girl who, more than any one of his own children, so
strongly resembled her ; and with the conviction that
it was a duty he owed to his dead wife's memory that
this young friend, whom they had both so lately made
the recipient of their confidences, should be invited to
act as the most intimate female friend of the deceased,

and share the privileges of a bond fide daughter of
the house, Colonel Leppell decided to send for Miss
Fanshawe. The widower was, of course, too much
absorbed in his own trouble to consult Lady Asher or
his eldest unmarried daughter as to the desirability
of this arrangement.

Prothero, meanwhile, was most anxious about Mary.
It will kill the poor child, all coming so suddenly
upon her, and perhaps not to be able to arrive intime
; " of this last the good woman was very doubtful.
He's,"  she remarked to the nurse, in allusion to Mr
Clavering, " he's taken up with a lot of f oreigneering
stocks and stones, and goodness knows down what pit
or under what cairn they may be by this time ! " The
hours went by, but there was no return telegram from
Mrs Clavering.

Towards the close of the day, Miss Fanshawe arrived
in the dog-cart, and was received by all at Hunter's
Lodge as the machine which would cause everything
to work. The Colonel hastened out to help her to
alight ; and Alick Leppell, who had been a few moments
in the house, and had got over the meeting
with his brother most satisfactorily, stood on the hall
steps, thinking how very handsome Lillian Fanshawe
had become.

It occurred to him, however, that Miss Fanshawe
did not exhibit very much affliction at the loss of one
who had been in every way so kind to her ; but then,
mused Alick, perhaps she had her cry out when the
news first reached her  people are so different in their

ways. " By George ! " he went on to himself, after a
puff at his cigar, " it would not be a bad thing if Ralph
were to marry her  in due time, of course,  he's safe
to do something of the kind." Then recollecting himself,
" I won't think of such a thing now ; it's indecent,
it's brutal. Good gracious ! what could have put such
an idea into my head ? "

One thing in regard to this arrangement did not
enter into the Honourable Alexander Leppell's brain 
it was the trifling circumstance that the lady in
question might possibly not view the alliance in a
favourable light; for Lillian was certainly not a
person to overlook the slightest disadvantage in anyone
who might aspire to the honour of her hand.

Her presence at Hunter's Lodge brought all the
alleviation upon which that household had reckoned,
and it was certainly due to Miss Fanshawe's influence
that Colonel Leppell roused himself to transact the
most important business with regard to his wife's
interment. Miss Clavering and Mr Glascott arrived
at the Eed Lion as speedily as travelling would permit ;
and the former drove to Hunter's Lodge almost immediately
upon her entrance into Yarnee, hoping to find
her brother and sister-in-law under Colonel Leppell's
roof. The young lady's disappointment was indeed
great at being greeted by Miss Fanshawe, and to be
further informed that no news had been received from
the travellers since they left Paris ten days ago. Mrs
Clavering last letter from the Hotel de Nice had
merely announced that they were just starting to

some place in Styria  a place where Frank had been
before, and which is one of the paradises of the
geological student.

All this Miss Fanshawe related with a coldness of
manner which was hard and business-like. She expressed
neither regret nor surprise at the non-arrival
of the Claverings, nor did one word of sympathy for
Mary escape her lips ; indeed the equanimity with
which she imparted the information that, despite
Viscount Hieover's influence, the Court of Chancery
would not permit Duke to attend his mother's funeral,
thoroughly exasperated Willina, whose generous heart
was full of sympathy for the bereaved family. " And
that girl," she said to herself, " is Mary's early friend !
What a misnomer. Let me do Miss Fanshawe justice.
I can see that she does not like me ; perhaps it is on
that account that she is so reticent and so cold."

Miss Clavering was, however, not alone in her
astonishment at Lillian's conduct. The air of locum
tenens which pervaded that lady had not only excited
the amazement, but it had also aroused the indignation,
of the Honourable Alexander. The latter had come
over to remain at Hunter's Lodge for the two days
previous to the funeral, and did not feel particularly
complimented when he found that it was owing to
Miss Fanshawe's influence that the Colonel had been
prevailed upon to allow his brother the control of
some of the business relative to the interment. Then
Miss Lillian had thought proper to treat Mr Leppell
as a black sheep, who was only in his brother's house

on sufferance. Yet she was always polite and attentive,
and listened patiently to his remarks in the
conferences they held together concerning the inevitable
duties which the position had thrown upon them.

Notwithstanding that he was not a lady's man, in
the general acceptation of the term, Mr Leppell was
delighted to find that Miss Clavering came daily to
Hunter's Lodge and remained a great portion of the
day there. It was a relief to him, after the harness in
which Miss Fanshawe constantly kept him, to be able
to speak unreservedly to one so full of the milk of
human kindness, and who was so sisterly in all that
she said about his niece Mary. Together they lamented
her absence, and contrived every means in
their power to communicate with her ; and it was to
Miss Clavering that Alick spoke of his regret that
there was as yet no renewal of acquaintance between
him and Mr Glascott.

I am afraid Mr Glascott is keeping away because
I am here," said Mr Leppell, boldly putting the
question.

Miss Clavering did not assent to this fully, so she
replied, "My cousin is at present dreadfully cut up
at Mrs Leppell's death; she was an early and very
dear friend of his. Mr Glascott is to attend the
funeral, and I am sure, if only for her sake, you will
shake hands then. I will, if you like, speak to
him this evening, and tell him what you say. At
this time it is no question for calling, as you must be
aware."

Mr Leppell was delighted at being assisted so opportunely
in what was certainly a serious dilemma, and
he thanked Willina with great heartiness for her good
offices.

"Somehow," said he, bluntly, "I feel much more at
ease with you than I do with Miss Fanshawe, although
I have known her from a child. I had thought of
asking her to set matters right, as she is so intimate
here, but I could not do it. She is very handsome
and clever, no doubt; but she has become such a
very gentlemanly young lady  if I may be permitted
the expression,  that I am half afraid of
her."

"Opinions differ," replied "Willina, with a quiet
smile. " Mr Glascott thinks Miss Fanshawe the most
perfect girl he has ever seen."

poor he ! " exclaimed Alick, opening his eyes in
astonishment. " Well, you know, her likeness to my
late sister may account for that. Poor Adelaide ! or
rather poor Ralph ! "

They waited till the uttermost moment, and then
all that was mortal of Adelaide Leppell was consigned
to rest in the country churchyard of Blythe. The
absence of both Duke and Mary naturally added indignation
to the grief of the widower. He, however,
acted as chief mourner with becoming decorum, and
when the ceremony was over they led his little
children to him, and left them with him to do the
work of consolation.

At this same time Mr Glascott and Mr Leppell

joined hands, and buried their enmity over the scarcely
closed grave. " Lord, forgive us our trespasses, as
we forgive them that trespass against us ! " The glow
of the evening light streamed on the turf hallowed by
this vesper prayer.

CHAPTEE X.

A foe's gift is no gift, and brings no profit.

It was not till five days had elapsed that the Claveringss
at length arrived at Hunter's Lodge. They had
returned to Paris with the intention of spending some
little time in that city, as Mr Clavering had scientific
friends to meet there.

Tip telegrams which they received at the Hotel de
Nice, however, caused them to travel forward without
an hour's delay. Frank felt convinced that by this
time it was quite useless to hurry, but his arguments
only increased the nervous agitation of his wife ; consequently,
he could not do otherwise than expedite
the travelling arrangements, although this premature
return interfered seriously with his own plans.

Mary's grief on arriving at home was dreadful to
witness, but it had the effect of rousing the Colonel
into some approach to action ; and it gave Miss
Clavering the opportunity of lavishing the most tender
sympathy on her sister-in-law. This was fortunate
for the sufferer, as Miss Fanshawe's kind offices were

greatly increased by the presence of Mr Clavering.
It was very hard upon him, poor man," Miss Lillian
remarked ; " he could not be expected to enter into
the feelings of the family to any great extent. Of
course he was very shocked, and all that; but he
must not be moped to death." And so they walked,
and read, and geologist as of yore, and Mary was
thankful to her friend for entertaining her husband
so pleasantly ; indeed she felt convinced that were
it not for Lillian's companionship and literary aid,
Francis would not have consented so readily to remain
quietly at Hunter's Lodge during its first season of
heavy grief.

Mr Glascott and Miss Clavering also thought it
to be their duty to extend their stay at Yarnee; the
latter from real sympathy with her sister-in-law,  the
former, ostensibly, because he always was ready to
meet the plans of other people.

The Colonel grieved now for the absence of his
eldest son. It is scarcely an exaggeration to say that
the news of his mother's death fell like a thunderbolt
on Marmaduke Leppell.

Had he been at home, or so circumstanced that he
could at least share the sorrow of his family, and be
as one of them, however short the time, his grief
would probably, after its first ebullition, have evaporated
in such active exertion as might conduce to
drown his thoughts and modify his self-reproach.

But in the stillness of a close imprisonment, albeit
not rigorous, wherein no distraction was procurable,

Duke was perforce driven into himself; and in the
communing of his spirit, conscience asserted her part,
and set before him in stern array his numerous offences
towards the gentle being whose face he could
never see again, whose loving tender voice was mute
for evermore.

Dead ! dead ! without word or message to me!"
Duke at length exclaimed, as he rose out of that dull
stony stupor which is worse than a swoon ; for in this
whatever some may allege to the contrary  the
sense of pain is acute to agony. " Dead ! my mother
dead, and I know nothing of her last hours ; and I
have helped to kill her ! I see how it has been : she
has thought and thought over what I have done, and
she has put off writing to me, for fear of expressing
her displeasure too strongly. Yes ; I see it now.
Then grandma's illness, and Moll going away, and
the governor's bothering,  it has all been too much
for her, and she has mourned silently over us all,
and  died. Oh, mother ! Yes ; you are dead  the
sweetest woman in all the world  and I not even
near you ! God knows, I would suffer years of pain
for only one touch of your dear hand ! but it is all
useless, all vain now ! "

He took up the letter which conveyed the mournful
intelligence to him, in the hope that another perusal
would throw some light upon the fact, and at least
inform him if Mrs Leppell had been able to speak
with even one of her family before she breathed her
last. It was written by Lillian Fanshawe, short and

concise as a lawyer s communication, merely giving
the bare facts of the case, and ending with very sparse
condolence. The modicum of this last was expressed
in such terms as rather to exasperate Duke against
the writer than otherwise.

Confound her impudence ! " he burst out, whilst
the great tears rolled down his face ; " she hopes the
trial will be blessed to me, does she ? takes a tone
of superior virtue, as if she knew all about my  my
gravest  misdoings. Clara might have written,  I
do think she might."

After a pause, in which Marmaduke broke down
utterly, not only at the news of his loss, but also from
the conviction that he was now kept out of the pale
of his family, a light broke in upon him.

I daresay the governor has got Lillian to undertake
all the correspondence for him  that's it ; but I
think Miss Lillian might have expressed a little more
sympathy for me. She must know that I should feel
rather differently from herself on losing a mother.
Mrs Fanshawe's death would not trouble her eldest
daughter much, I fancy."

He tried to steel himself with this sarcasm, but it
would not do. Stamping his foot on the ground, as
if he would trample and rend to pieces the faintest
knowledge of the truth, the lad again bowed his head,
and wept the bitterest tears he had ever shed in his
life ; all his hardness, all his undoubted pluck, were
melted at once in the seething furnace of a merited
affliction,  an affliction that struck home.

It could scarcely be otherwise. Was he not in
trouble and disgrace? and never could he, let life be
loner or short  never throw his arms around her, and
hide his face on that forgiving heart, and acknowledge
that he had sinned in Heaven's sight, against Heaven,
and against her.

Ah no ; the time for that had passed away for ever.

But he could, he thought, pay her the last respect.
He would attend her burial ; he would stand with his
father's arm within his own, and support him in the
sorrow which he felt would bow his parent to the
earth. Yes, at her coffin-head they would stand together,
and resolve there to be better men for her dear
sake : for after all, there is no purer remembrance
upon this earth than that of loyal, true womanhood.
God and woman should be mankind's watchword  his
battle-cry in strife, his golden crown in peace.

Then rushed across his mind the doubt as to whether
he would be allowed to leave his place of detention
even for one day, to fulfil a duty so sacred. He
resolved to make a direct application to the proper
quarter, and he felt certain that his father (and possibly
also his grandfather) would exert himself to get
his release, if only for a few hours. His knowledge of
the ways of the law was very misty ; but he held a
confused idea that he would be placed on " parole," and
that this indulgence would be based on military lines.
In that case, Marmaduke felt that he would know
what he was about. Of course he should keep his
"parole," and return cheerfully to his prison.

Those about him, however, did not foster this
opinion ; but kindness and respect for the lad's
sincere grief caused them to keep silence on the subject,
only reminding Marmaduke that the Chancellor
was out of Britain, and it might be a question as
to whether the Vice - Chancellor could or would
undertake the responsibility of letting him go to
Blythe, even if attended by an officer of the Court
of Chancery.

That day was one of long suspense. It was not to
be expected that an immediate answer could be returned
to the application which Duke eventually made
in respectful language and very fair grammar ; and it
so happened that a couple of days elapsed before any
notice was accorded to his petition.

It was curt and decided enough. The missive
ran that it was utterly impossible that Mr Leppell
should leave the Queen's Prison, Holloway, for a
single hour.

Marmaduke bore this like steel,  turned over some
other letters which were handed to him at the time,
and pounced upon one bearing Peggy's handwriting
on the envelope. It was an epistle of condolence, and
ran as follows : 

My dearest Old Boy,  I have been thinking of
you night and day, knowing how troubled you will be,
not only at your dear mother's death (I am so glad now
that I never saw her), but also about this dreadful
Court which won't let you out, even for the funeral.

vol. ii. o

It is enough to make us all hold it in contempt for
the rest of our lives.

"My 'dragon' is turning out quite amiable. She
agreed with me that I ought to put on deep mourning,
for the Court can't prevent me being a daughter-in-law
to poor Mrs Leppell. She has helped me so kindly,
that I feel it would be mean to go on being disagreeable,
so I have turned civil, and ' dragon ' says that I
have the makings of a fine character. Fancy that !

"Well, dear boy, I am having several black dresses
made ; one of them, covered with crape, for the evening,
has a crape tail, just like a comet in black (I should
like to catch the Chancellor treading on that). I tell
you this because I know you would wish me to show
respect to the memory of your mother.

Clara has written me a nice letter, giving me a few
particulars. She says that Miss Clavering, who is
staying now at Yarnee, counselled her to write, for she
thought that we must both feel being cut off from the
family at such a time, and that it would be proper
to send a few lines to me especially. Clara mentions
that your old friend, Miss Fanshawe, is staying at
Hunter's Lodge, and that she wrote fully to you by
your father's desire, who is too cut up to do anything.
As you know all about it, I will not harrow your
feelings, dear Duke, by saying more on this subject.
I only hope you won't dislike me for being the cause
of your imprisonment : at any rate, you must be very
down-hearted.

My ' dragon ' tells me that these Chancellors really

cannot help themselves ; they must carry out the law,
but in the main they are no worse hearted than their
neighbours. The Vice - Chancellor, it appears, could
not let you out in the absence of his superior, who is
kicking up his heels on the Continent just now. It
seems it would be as much as the Vice's place is worth
to do so, because the orders are that you are to be
kept strictly, on account of your contumacy before we
surrendered.

You know it is only because I howled so desperately
that we are allowed to correspond without restraint ;
so it will be as well to 'grin and bear it.' I am
saving all the money I can, in order that we may
enjoy ourselves when you are set free. Be sure I
will make it all up to you, dear, and be a kind
and loving wife. I know you will get steady intime.


It is just as well that you can't rejoin the Gold-spinners.
I have thought that we might take a farm
in Ireland, where there's safe to be a little fighting if
you look out for it. Keep up your spirits for the
present, and believe me,  Your loving, dutiful, affectionate
wife, Margaret Leppell."

Marmaduke read and re-read this epistle with
mingled feelings of affection and respect. The candid
freshness, the unselfishness of the writer, struck him
very forcibly, and the conviction dawned upon him
that he never could repay the warm-hearted girl who,
through his act, was at that moment in a measure

circumscribed in liberty, if not in actual honourable

captivity.

What had lie clone to merit a dutiful wife ? Did
he deserve that this young creature should resign all
the enjoyments of early womanhood in order to live
with him on a remote farm ?  To resign all the pleasures
to which her large fortune entitled her, for the
purpose of keeping him steady, and inducing him to
lay the foundation of a permanent home ?

Here she was, saving her allowance in order to spare
him the pressure of money embarrassments when he
should be free. The whole tone of her letter assured
him that, if need be, she was ready to sacrifice every
penny, nay, even dear life, for his sake ; and was he
worthy of all this ?

The answer he made to himself was perhaps the
turning-point of his whole future life : he honestly,
and without seeking to evade the mental query,
avowed that he in no respect was worthy.

This admitted, came resolution ; and the first-fruits
of this resolution were evinced in schooling himself to
patience, and in writing to his wife a letter in which,
without making many promises, he undertook to be
guided by her wishes in his future career-only,"
he wrote, "be always with me: the presence of my
wife and the dear memory of my mother will belike
the guardianship of two angels to keep me in the
right path."

Marmaduke then wrote to his sister Mary, and
to his father; but to Miss Lillian's letter he never

vouchsafed, either directly or indirectly, the slightest
notice. It is possible that the lady never remarked
this omission ; she was at this time entirely taken up
with Mr Clavering's geological researches.

The rest of the family had also their anxieties and
duties ; for Lady Asher had suffered a relapse, and
it was as much as Prothero and her two eldest granddaughters
could do, to bestow all the attention which
the infirmities of the old lady demanded.

Thus it was that Mr Glascott lingered at the Ked
Lion Hotel, and the departure for Brydone remained
in abeyance for a while.

The frequent visits of Mr Glascott to Hunter's
Lodge had scarcely the effect of adding to the comfort
of the master of that abode. True he was glad,
and sincerely glad, that a friendship had been cemented
by himself and his brother Alexander with
Everard Glascott; and that the wings of the Angel
of Death contributed to cover all former animosities
and the remembrance of early injuries.

To say truth, the forgiveness was much more hearty
on the part of Mr Glascott than it was on that of
Colonel Leppell. The latter could not forget that
he had not been his wife's first love ; and he was
restless and impatient that their son's deliverance
from disgrace was entirely due to the man to whom,
of all others, he would the least choose to be indebted.
His conscience told him that for the sake of Adelaide
Mr Glascott had foregone all the comforts of married
life; and his pride was galled because, on reviewing

his position, he could not see his way to requite his
benefactor, or by any means discharge the debt of
obligation which lie conceived was due to that gentleman.
A trilling incident, however, suddenly changed
the current of the Colonel's thoughts. He was sitting
at the window of his den, listlessly turning over a
file of unpaid bills, and according to custom selecting
those that were the most pressing, and upon which a
sum " on account " would be likely to be accepted by
the creditors.

The sound of voices diverted him from his occupation
 they were those of Miss Fanshawe and Mr
Glascott. There was nothing to distract him in this,
but he happened at the same moment to look up,
and his eyes fell directly on Mr Glascott's face.

Kalph was not naturally astute, but that moment
would have revealed to one even more dense than he
the innermost workings of Everard Glascott's soul.
The radiant face, that peculiar luminous light in the
eye which is never seen but in those who love, all
told their tale,  all told of the deep strong love of the
elderly man, which, forgetting time and space, believeth
all things, loveth all things ; and is ever more
loyal than the fleeting passion of early youth, because
in the majority of cases it endure all things  and
endure to the end.

Then the Colonel's gaze travelled to the face of
Lillian Fanshawe. Had his dead wife stood there in
the first blush of her girlish beauty, he would scarcely
have been surprised. That remarkable likeness which

Miss Fanshawe had always borne to the deceased lady
seemed at this moment to be increased and rarefied,
as it were, by the soft expression which was so rarely
seen on the young girl's face. She was looking upwards,
listening with a pleased smile to what her
companion was saying. Ralph could only catch a
word here and there, but he thought he could make
out that Mr Glascott was pressing Miss Fanshawe
to come and make a stay at his house at Brydone.

Some expressions which fell from the lady informed
the listener that Miss Fanshawe had so far confided
in Mr Glascott, as to make that gentleman aware that
she was not quite happy in her father's house. Lillian,
the Colonel thought, was too proud to enter into
family grievances with one who was so lately a
stranger ; " but then," thought that officer, " I have no
business to sit in judgment upon a few stray words :
moreover, I rather think I have no business to be
looking out here at all." So thinking, Ralph moved
away from the window ; but he had taken a resolve,
and set himself to think how best he could act
upon it.

The result of his cogitations was, that he now saw
his way to returning some of Mr Glascott's good offices
towards himself.

What should prevent him from using his influence
to promote a match between Mr Glascott and Lillian
Fanshawe ?

Difference of age ! Nonsense ; the man was fifty-eight
and the girl nineteen, but what did that signify

when the man was so handsome and debonair? It
might injure young Clavering's prospects somewhat,
but that was no matter ; and with so much already
given, Francis could afford to be liberal and grateful.

Then there was another and most important point
to be considered in the possible arrangement of this
project, and that was the greater security it would
supply for the preservation of the secret of Armature's
disgrace.

Colonel Leppell had never been quite satisfied that
he and his late wife had acted wisely in bestowing
their whole confidence on Miss Fanshawe; but the
risk attending this, if any, would be quite neutralised
should Lillian eventually become Mr Glascott's wife.
In that case the secret would not go beyond those
who already possessed it ; indeed the wife would naturally
second her husband's wish that all concerning
the affair should be buried in oblivion : in this a most
trying anxiety would be quenched utterly.

Would Mrs Leppell have liked the idea of her
quondam lover, in his ripe middle age, marrying a
stranger, whose chief recommendation to his regard
was the extraordinary resemblance she bore to herself
in her palmy early days ?

Most assuredly she would have accorded her approval,
was Ralph's answer to this question, mentally
put.

Mrs Leppell would only have been too happy to
further this alliance, and so contribute her quota in
wiping off the debt of gratitude which they owed to

Mr Glascott. It was possible, also, that Adelaide
might have regarded the event as a direct testimony
to the potency of her own charms.

This last reflection caused the Colonel to work himself
into the belief that it was due to the memory of
his late wife that he should do all in his power to
promote this marriage ; and then he bestowed a little
attention upon Miss Fanshawe's part in the programme.

The opportunity for her, Colonel Leppell regarded
as most providential and most fortunate. Her family
might object ?  not they. Did not everybody know
that Mrs Fanshawe no more cared for her eldest
daughter than if she had been the child of the
Begum of Bhopal ; and that the rector showed his
affection for her by doing his best to keep her in other
people's houses and out of his own ? Hunter's Lodge
was more a home to Lillian Fanshawe than that of
her parents ; and she entertained as much affection
for the people of that home as it was in her nature
to bestow.

Yes," Ralph determined, " the thing shall be done :
it will repay the wife I have taken from Everard Glas-cost
; it will give me the satisfaction of making reparation
in my lifetime for the wrongdoing of my youth.
Let me but have the matter in my own hands, and
nobly will I reward this man for what he has done
for me and mine. Here at last we shall be quits ! "

So mused, and so honestly thought, Colonel Leppell ;
but a deeper reason was the dominant influence which
impelled him to assist Mr Glascott in obtaining his

heart's desire  that lingering, undefinable dislike to
the relations in which he stood with regard to that
gentleman. His pride was so mortified, that to discharge
his obligation he would have lent himself to
any scheme, however eccentric or even outrageous, if
he could have by such means made Mr Glascott in
any manner his debtor.

Now the opportunity had arrived, and it should not
be the fault of Ralph Leppell if all were not carried
out to the desired end.

It was a bold stroke, thus building upon a chance
expression of face, perhaps, or an unusual warmth of
manner and utterance. The Colonel, however, had
the courage of his convictions, and he very shortly
afterwards had occasion to verify them entirely to
his own satisfaction. Then he went to the fountainhead
 or, to put it more plainly, he attacked Mr
Glascott.

That gentleman fenced and parried his host's downright
questions, as persons similarly situated generally
do : at length, after rather a brisk game of mental cut-and-thrust,
Mr Glascott acknowledged the truth of
Colonel Leppell's surmises, and, to the great delight
of the officer, concluded by asking his opinion of his
chances of success.

u You have no reason as yet for supposing that you
have won Miss Fanshawe's affections?" Ralph inquired,
with an air of the deepest wisdom.

Oh no ; it is on this point that I am so very
dubious. I am not blind to the fact of the immense

difference in our ages : that, I feel sure, is greatly
to my disadvantage, and it might weigh as a serious
objection with the parents."

"Not a bit of it," replied the Colonel, reassuring
his friend  " they would be only too proud of the connection
; and the difference in age is your affair, and
that of the lady, I rather think."

Mr Glascott agreed so far; still he could not but
feel very diffident as to the advisability of the affair.
"Yet," continued the poor gentleman, "Miss Fan-share
is so like what poor Adelaide was at her age,
and my meeting her under your roof, all concur to
interest me most deeply in this young lady,  she is so
superior to most other girls "

That's it," broke in the Colonel. " Lillian has got
the head of a woman of thirty on her shoulders ; and
she has more knowledge of the world than poor Adelaide
ever had. Sharp mother too ; has had to keep
up appearances, and has had always too much to do
to be flirting and philandering with youths who mean
nothing,  nothing, I mean, in the way of business."

"You do not know if there be any possible rival in
the way ? " inquired the elder man, almost timidly.

I am sure there is not," the Colonel volunteered,
with all the hardihood of thorough conviction. " It is
not every man who would suit Miss Fanshawe  you
can see that yourself. See how she devotes herself
to my family, and what a companion she is to Clavering,
now Mary is so much with Lady Asher."

I have remarked that with very much pleasure,"

returned Mr Glascott; "for it is but right that I
should study closely the character of the lady whom
I should wish to make my wife. I have never ventured
to make my sentiments known to Miss ;
indeed, my great difficulty is to discover
whether she would really respond to them."

' Well, that is difficult, certainly. Lillian is naturally
reticent. The way her mother has treated the
girl has caused her from an early age to keep her
thoughts and opinions under very great reserve. Do
not be in a hurry ; take time and stay here. You
will manage much better by keeping quite clear of
Pinnacles Court. To tell you the truth, poor Adelaide
said once or twice lately, how thankful she
would be could Lillian make a nice match, and get
out of Yarneshire."

So Mrs Leppell had said ; but her remark was
prompted by the strong desire she entertained to see
Miss Fanshawe safely married and out of Mr Covering's
way. Had she imagined that Mr Glascott would
be the bridegroom, it is highly probable that she
would have been delighted to know that the fixed
home of that gentleman was over the sea, and that
they would stay at the London house but once a-year.

The Colonel being only cognisant of the fact that
such were his late wife's hopes, and being at the
same time profoundly ignorant of the reasons which
prompted them, he pressed this very much on Mr Glas-cost's
attention ; for he knew well enough that nothing
would act as a greater incentive to that gentleman's

aspirations than the knowledge that they would have
been fostered by Mrs Leppell had she been in life.
Mr Glascott said little more, after he had averred
that he would do nothing precipitate ; and that little
referred to an apprehension that the proposed match
might not seem good in the eyes of Francis and
Willina Clavering.

The Colonel, however, disposed of this qualm of
conscience in a very summary method. " It's no business
of theirs ; Francis is married, and his sister will
marry. Look to yourself, my friend, and provide for
the comforts of your old age : don't sacrifice too much
for people in your lifetime,  you will get no thanks
for it."

Willina has reckoned so much on making Jersey
our home, it seems rather hard to dethrone her before
she has been actually the mistress of the house," said
Mr Glascott, pensively.

All the better ; there will not be the custom of
years to resign. Besides, you give Miss Clavering
great advantages when you make Miss Fanshawe the
mistress of your house  haw ! "

Mr Glascott jumped at this suggestion, which had
not occurred to him before, and therefore he replied,
Certainly, most certainly,  a very great advantage."

Then said the Colonel, " You know well, Glascott,
that I wronged you very much in the matter of
my marriage with Adelaide Asher. I am heartily
sorry for the way in which I behaved to you, and sois
my brother, for aiding and abetting me in, my evil

doing. Yon have repaid this wrong with noble kindness,
and there is nothing I would not do to help you,
or assist you in your plans haw ! hum ! I think so
well of Miss Fanshawe, that were I unmarried, I
mean, if I could give my late wife a successor,  she
is the only person I would choose. But, no ; I will
never marry again. Let me, then, use all my influence
in your favour: the girl has confidence in me,
and is almost like one of my own children  indeed
at this moment I feel as if she were my daughter.
Let us suppose it ; and let me say that I give her to
you as a trusting father would give her. She will bea
glorious atonement for what I have made you suffer
in the past ; only take time, and leave all to me."

Mr Glascott acquiesced, but was too much absorbed
to wonder how it was that Kalph spoke so glibly, and
seemed to be quite confident of bringing this matter
to a happy conclusion. He was, in fact, so enamoured
of the prospect in view, that he could think of
nought besides it. No man, either old or young, was
more thoroughly heart-smitten than he.

Then the gentlemen parted, agreeing on both sides
to act cautiously, and to keep silence.

The family at Hinton Square had been duly informed
of the trouble which had suddenly thrown
its shadow over the inmates of Hunter's Lodge ; but
it so happened that the La Touche family had received
news of the death of a near relative, which,
if it did not cause any grief, certainly tended to upset
their plans, and possibly bring an unwelcome

kinsman into closer contact with them than they
quite liked.

An unexpected and a somewhat uncomfortable
letter had conveyed to Mr La Touche the intelligence
of the death of his eldest sister, Mrs MacTaggart; the
widow of a Presbyterian divine of some repute. The
writer, being the eldest son of the deceased lady, further
informed him that, after settling his younger
brothers and sisters with some relatives of their father,
he, Colin MacTaggart, intended to come at once to
London in order to seek employment for himself.

He was glad to say that the firm of MacTaggart &
MacTaggart, the well-known Writers to the Signet of
Macnahanish Street, Glasgow, had taken his brother
Donald into their office, and that his two sisters
were to be the guests of a cousin of his father fora
year.

He therefore ventured to hope that his mother's
family would endeavour to assist him, and thought
it possible that his uncle might have a vacancy in his
office in the city which he could fill. Colin concluded
this epistle by stating that he would be in London
on the evening of the 18th,  that he felt sure of a
warm welcome from his uncle and cousins,  and hoped
that his aunt Marcia would secure him a lodging near
Hinton Square.

It was explained in a postscript that Mrs MacTag-
part had died suddenly in a remote part of the Highlands,
where she had been on a visit, and where the
communication with Glasgow was irregular. On this

account it was impossible that Mr La Touche could
have arrived in time for the burial.

Well, you have been saved the expense of attending
the funeral," said Marcia to her brother, after she
had read the letter ; " but if he comes here Colin, I
mean we shall have to be in some kind of mourning."

Why, yes," returned Mr La Touche, slowly, " the
proper thing must be done mourning, of course. I
have got the suit which I keep for attending funerals,
and so has Percival, I believe."

Oh, you men can do well enough," cried Marcia ;
"but what about the girls and myself?"

"Furbish up your black silk dresses with crape,"
interposed Percival, amongst whose many littleness
a capacity for man-millinery shone out conspicuously.
Get some cheap bonnets, and a few black crape
flowers for yourself and some white ones for the girls,
and the thing is done."

Marcia did not quite relish this prompt adaptation
to circumstances, and persisted bravely in making-objections,
hoping thereby to extract a cheque from
her brother ; so she continued 

There must be other things supplied, more sub -
statical than flowers. We can't live in one dress for
three months at a time  the thing is absurd. We
ought to have new black cashmere dresses, black
mantles, and a number of little items besides, which
you know nothing about."

Stick a black lining under your black lace shawl,"
answered Percival, " and put some bugle trimming

about it. Colin will only be here for a few days, and
you can return to gay raiment as soon as he is gone."
I am not so sure of that," replied the aunt. " Colin
evidently intends my brother to get him some employment,
and he will be here off and on till something
is procured for him. However that may be, it
is only right and proper that we should have decent
mourning, and that we should wear it for more thana
few days. I am sure I am only asking what is just
and right."

VOL. II.

CHAPTEE XL

DOMESTIC ECONOMY.

As no response was made by the elder gentleman to
Marcia's appeal, Stephen, who was present at the
family conclave, and had been a silent listener, now
spoke.

I will give you a black cashmere, or whatever
you call it  mourning dress, Aunt Marcia : you at
least ought to put on decent mourning for your own
sister. As for the girls, I do hope my father and
Percival will do something towards helping them out."

Mr La Touche looked at his son, but he said nothing.
Percival sarcastically hoped that briefs were becoming
plentiful ; whilst Marcia, thinking it advisable to strike
whilst the iron was hot, proposed that now that
Stephen had done his part  the one who could the
least afford it, she added with emphasis  the other
two gentlemen should present the girls with the de
quoi wherewith to furnish the decency of aspect required
for mourning for their father's sister.

It must be done," continued Marcia, valiantly. " If

we have no clothes I won't preside at the dinner-party
which we are to have next week. I won't be present,"
she reiterated, " unless we have all proper clothes."

Dress, I presume you mean," said Percival, with
an aggravating grin. " Whatever happens, that dinner
cannot be put off. I am going to the country almost
immediately afterwards. Besides, the menu is the
best we have had this season."

This feast is arranged for Thursday next, is it
not?" inquired Stephen of his aunt.

Yes ; there are twelve people coming, and a few
of the girls' friends afterwards. We had hoped to getup
a little dance."

But you see," said Stephen, deprecatingly, " this
will be the very evening that Colin MacTaggart
arrives in town : it will be most unseemly to be
entertaining company at the moment he enters the
house."

What does that signify ? " asked Percival roughly ;
we can't help people dying. They always do expire
at the most inconvenient seasons for their friends.
It is a well ascertained fact."

But remember the feelings of the son  our first
cousin," persisted Stephen. " The Scotch are so particular
on this point; and the MacTaggart family
would look upon our entertaining company on the
evening of Colin's arrival as a dreadful insult."

He comes at his own time and by his own invitation,"
said Percival; "the party can't be put off for
him : he had better go to a hotel."

Could you not meet him at the station," said
Marcia to her nephew Stephen, " and take him to the
Zoological Gardens ? No, they would be shut up ;
Remorse would be better. There he could be as
quiet as he likes, walking in the alleys among the
trees out of the crowd. He need not look at the
dancing, or at any of the fast people,' you know."

Stephen did not at all relish this proposal, and
declined it positively, saying that it was not his habit
to frequent Remorse. He had his own reasons for
wishing to be present at this dinner-party, for the
reading pupil was to be one of the guests, and Stephen
had already determined to settle with that youth that
their reading-tour ought by all manner of means to
take the direction of the Channel Islands.

Why not write," suggested Stephen, " and ask
MacTaggart to defer his arrival for a day, and offer
him a bed in the house at once ? This would not
only be kind to him, but it will show the MacTaggart
Clan that the La Touches are quite as ready to give
countenance to these orphans as they are."

This was a grand stroke of diplomacy on the part
of Stephen.

The old gentleman shook up his feathers, metaphorically
speaking, and looked the prosperous British
merchant every inch, and as if he were capable of
protecting a whole wing of the British army at a
stroke.

The expression, " countenance the orphans," had the
effect also of dulcifving the vinegar of Percival's

temperament. The offer of a bed in the house was
so easy a piece of hospitality, that no objection could
be raised to the introduction of Colin as a guest.

"He can have the little room at the top of the
house, and nobody will see him," said Marcia, pursuing
the advantages.

"And you can be dressed like Christians for the
dinner-party," added Percival; "and as I am very
anxious that this should come off well, Marcia, and
you may have some trouble, I don't mind giving a
five-pound note between you and the girls for black
gloves and ribbons and all that."

Just one pound for each of us ! " answered Marcia
ungratefully, but to the point. " Really, Percival, you
might give another ten pounds for your own sisters ;
with your wealth, you ought to be a more generous
brother. Do give ten pounds to divide between the
two elder ones ; they could get a handsome dress
apiece."

But Percival was obdurate. "Five pounds among
the lot," he replied, coarsely, " for gloves and ribbons ;
I don't undertake to do more than that."

You had better hand the sum to Aunt Marcia at
once," said Stephen, who took a quiet delight in teasing
his elder brother. " Amid your varied distractions,
this little trifle might be overlooked."

So it might," said Marcia. " Hand me a five-pound
note, Percival, if you please. Here are two
witnesses to testify that you have fulfilled your
promise."

"But I do wish," she continued more earnestly,
that you could make up your mind, at least once ina
way, to be generous to your sisters, and give them a
decent present now and then. You are always ready
to find fault if their dress is not exactly comme ilfaut,
and yet you never give them any aid in helping them
with their wardrobe."

Mr La Touche was either struck with the justice
of this remark, or perhaps with admiration for the
persistency with which Marcia always advocated his
daughters' claim upon their rich brother, for he said,
Never mind, Marcia ; I will see what I can do for
the girls without straitening their allowance. I may
also manage something for yourself. You certainly
are a good aunt."

Mr La Touche said no more than the truth when he
made this last assertion.

Whatever Marcia's failings might be in the matter
of self-indulgence and worldliness, she never forgot
her duty towards her brother's children. More than
once she had suffered hard rebuffs in her attempts
to obtain some advantages for them, either in lessons
from professors or in some additional amusement or
article of dress : in these cases no benefit to herself
could possibly accrue.

If Marcia excelled in one thing more than in
another as to the manipulation of chaperone life, it
was in the making of hay whilst the sun shone. The
vicissitudes which she had witnessed in mercantile
circles, especially, urged her to take advantage of

present opportunities small and large ; and her object
now was to get her nieces safely married in the lifetime
of their father.

Full well knew she that nothing was to be expected
from Percival ; and she was haunted, in addition, by a
strong misgiving that Mr La Touche lived almost upto
the greatest extent of his income. True, there
was a little to divide, but what was that amongst so
many ?

The girls must marry, and so long as the La Touche
family kept open house, and gave recherche dinners,
men, and men of mark and substance, moreover, would
diligently frequent it.

Miss La Touche also deserved great credit for the
perfect good-feeling and harmony winch existed betwixt
herself and her nieces : little jealousies and
distrusts were unknown amongst them. Few ladies,
and those maiden aunts, could possess more genuine
admirers than did Aunt Marcia in the persons of
these young girls. They believed her to be the handsomest
and the best of relatives ; not one of them
would admit that their father's sister could be possibly
at fault in anything that she might say or do.

The bond of fellowship was perhaps unconsciously
strengthened from the fact that the gentlemen of the
family were looked upon as the common prey of these,
their near females relatives, in all matters monetary ;
and Miss La Touche, notwithstanding her preference
for her eldest nephew, always judiciously utilised his
flower-show and concert tickets, his " bones " for the

opera-stalls, and his " bones " for the Zoo, to the advantage
of her young charges.

The proclivities of the elder Mr La Touche towards
missionary meetings, and taking the chair at evening
lectures, &c, were also most dexterously managed.
These engagements kept the master of the house out
of the way ; and if these absences fell during the time
that Percival happened to be travelling or visiting
from home, the triumph of the evening delectation
was assured and complete.

It sometimes happened that Marcia wanted a quiet
earlier dinner, whereto she could safely invite some
pet male friend of the ladies of the family, who,
though perfectly irreproachable, was not au mieux
with the old gentleman or with Percival : then the
meetings and the lectures came in most opportunely.
Stephen or Andrew was ready enough to represent
the head of the house on these select occasions : they
were sensible young men, who volunteered no remarks
on the morrow concerning the guest or guests of the
previous evening. The servants, too, thoroughly appreciated
these little arrangements ; the courses were
fewer, the attendance less elaborate ; and some one of
the establishment below stairs secured a long evening
out, and usually remunerated his or her forces at the
theatre.

But to the kitchen-maid these were truly halcyon
periods ; for the cook-housekeeper had a penchant for
the meetings over which Mr La Touche presided,
and usually followed her master thereunto in an

omnibus, as close upon the cab which contained the
chairman of the meeting then convened as the locomotive
powers of the pursuing vehicle would allow.
Then Betty had it all her own way in the culinary
art. She worked her best, and had her reward in the
company of Private Tucker of the "Cavaltree," who
on these occasions contrived to drop in to supper and
drain a comfortable cup.

It was on the whole a difficult family to manage ;
and a woman of more acute feeling, and even, it must
be confessed, of a more delicate sense of honour, than
was Marcia, would certainly have steered less ably,
and have possibly come more frequently into direct
collision with one or other of its members.

As it was, she accepted her position, and deluded
herself into the belief that she was doing her duty
to the rest of the family by winking at Percival's
immoral life, and by pandering to his luxurious tastes.
It was like making bricks without straw  she received
neither gratitude nor consideration ; but she truly observed,
" If my brother makes no objection, how can
I interfere ? Besides, if Percival behaves respectably
when in the house, what business have we with what
he chooses to do out of it ? "

"Very questionable morality," replied Stephen, to
whom this remark had been addressed, with the view
of quenching some uncomfortable inquiries which he
had propounded on the matter  "very questionable.
If all goes smoothly on the surface, no matter what
corruption infects beneath it ! I am no prophet,

but I venture to predict that if this laxity obtains,
the difference betwixt right and wrong will be a very
unknown quantity in the country in a few years to
come."

Well, I can't help it," returned Marcia, snappishly.

"I think you can, a little, Aunt Marcia," replied
the nephew gently.

How ? in what way ? " asked Miss La Touche.

"In order to answer you, I must speak plainly.
Did you not ask Percival this morning  aside, it is
true  if you were to expect him to be at home, or if
lie was going to his country house to find metal more
attractive there ? "

Marcia could not deny this indiscretion, but declared
that nobody else could have overheard what
was said.

Pardon me  Fanny did ; and moreover, she observed
the little knowing glance which was interchanged
between you and my brother. It almost
seemed as if you aided and abetted him in this scandal.
Now, if you will allow me to advise you, never permit
Percival to approach the subject with you by signor
hint ; and by all means never allude to it yourself,
for if you do he will naturally think that you
regard his conduct with no very great disfavour."

Marcia was silent for a moment, then she said
suddenly, " You are angry with Percival just now,
because he is urging you to make up to Madame
rudolph Heine  that German dry salter's widow, I
mean."

Yes, I am angry at his impertinence in meddling
with my private affairs," returned Stephen hotly.
"It will be a dreadful nuisance if I am supposed
to make love to every lady with money who puts
her business into my hands. Madame Heine is my
client, and as my client only do I regard her."

But she has lots of money, and your father would
be so delighted if you could make a match of it,"
persisted Marcia. "You know, I suppose, that she
is invited to the dinner-party here on Thursday?
My brother made me send her an invitation, principally
on your account."

Did he ? he's very good. But just understand this,
Marcia, that I am not going to be disposed of in
matrimony against my will. I am quite satisfied to
remain as I am, until I can make enough to be
independent of fortune with a wife. And I may just
as well tell you, that if I am to be meddled with
by Percival, I shall at once go and live entirely in
chambers."

Marcia washed her hands of Percival, but insisted
that it was his father's wish that he, Stephen, should
marry Madame Heine.

I have told him that I will not, and there's an end
of it, as far as I am concerned," quoth Stephen. " If
the lady is looked upon as such a valuable acquisition
to the family, he had better try his luck himself in
that quarter."

"Nonsense, my dear," answered the aunt, very
briskly ; " mind you don't put such a thing into your

father's head. I suffer great anxiety on this account
as it is; don't augment it, pray."

Why, what do you mean ? "

Well, I cannot exactly define my meaning, for I
have no evidence to go upon; but I cannot help
thinking that these meetings, and charitable conferences,
and refuges, at which your father is always acting
as chairman, are only a blind for a little quiet flirtation
 in the pious way, you know. The number of
tickets for various charities, and the letters addressed
in female handwriting to him, are positively alarming.
He will be bringing a serious wife home some fine day.
I have told you all so before, but of course none of you
will take any precautions till it is too late."

But, Marcia, what are we to do ? Besides, he can't
marry all the serious ladies. Take comfort,  there's
safety in a multitude, as the saying goes."

Leo ! ,; replied the aunt. " You ought to go to these
meetings with your father, and look after him, and
see that these women don't have it all their own way.
I am sure I don't know how he will get on when the
dark weather comes. Have you not observed that your
father is very shaky on his legs now ? "

Stephen answered that he had remarked this ; but
lie reminded his aunt that Martha  the cook-housekeeper
 was fond of attending these serious meetings.
"Depend upon it," the young man continued,
"if there was anything going on, Martha would let
you know."

Yes ; but her attendance is very irregular," answered

Miss La Touche ; " and she never goes or returns
in the same conveyance, so a great deal might
happen which she never sees. I think, when the
evenings are longer, I shall advise my brother to let
Martha see him home, on dark nights especially."

I don't think my father would relish that," said
Stephen, laughing.

Of course, I should put it on the shakiness of his
legs, and the fear of his falling," said Marcia. " At any
rate, it will put a stop to his staying to little comfortable
suppers after these meetings ; and if their returning
together in a cab is objected to, an omnibus would
do just as well. Martha is a nice respectable-looking
woman, and she has been with us so long that there
would be nothing remarkable in her attending on him
on these occasions. I know it is quite useless to ask
any of you young men to accompany your father to
these meetings."

Oh, quite," replied the nephew, in a tone meant to
imply that such a thing was not to be thought of. " I
am much too busy in the day, and besides, I fancy
my father undertakes these duties under the idea that
his doing so is necessary for his commercial interests
among a certain set."

"He is a nice-looking old man, and the women
flatter him," returned Miss La Touche ; " but I think
it is time that he should leave these matters to
younger people."

Exactly ; that is my feeling. Still, if it is an interest
to him to speak in public, I hope he may long

be spared to do so. Could you not once in a way go
with your brother to some of the gatherings you allude
to yourself ? He is a nice-looking old man, as you say,
and has all the air of a benevolent bishop."

Impossible, my dear," replied Miss La Touche, ina
tone of great decision" my duties keep me at home ;
and now little Anna is an additional anxiety. Oh dear,
no ! Fancy me at a meeting, and at night too ! Quite
absurd."

Stephen held his peace. He could have inquired
how it was that his aunt was always equal to dinner-parties,
theatres, concerts, and such like distractions,
at any and at all hours of the night ; but as his object
was to secure his father being properly attended, he
avoided any remark that might be regarded as litigious,
and so allowing the actual subject to drop, he turned
to another bearing of it.

.Don't you think my father is breaking in health a
little, Aunt Marcia ? " said Stephen. " He is now and
then so abrupt and peculiar, that I fancy something
is wrong with his health."

Percival says that he is very difficult to manage in
the office at times," answered Miss La Touche. " It
would be better, it seems, if he would not be so persistent
in going there every day ; it is too much for
him, and he often makes mistakes with the correspondence."


I think he is beginning to be aware that he must
stay a day at home now and then," replied Stephen.
"In that case you will sometimes find it difficult to

occupy him, and you may find him a little trying. It
has occurred to me that Colin MacTaggart would be a
nice cheerful companion, and that it is perhaps a fortunate
thing that he is coming up to London."

Urn ! I don't know," answered Miss La Touche.
Colin is not a society man, by all accounts. Percival
has seen all the family, and he can't bear them."

That is of no consequence," returned Stephen
loftily. " I don't want Colin to be constantly here,
but in the event of my father requiring a companion
now and then, I think you might do a worse thing
than encourage his own nephew to take him about,
and show him some little attention. Colin is great at
meetings and charitable clubs, I believe, and he would
be a far better attendant than Martha, don't you
think ? "

"In some ways he would be, in others he would
not," answered Marcia. " He could not keep off any
of the women who might make up to your father at
the meetings, and so forth, because he would never
suspect what they were up to. Still, it might be convenient
to have him here sometimes."

MacTaggart is not a youth to be treated in a
patronising fashion," Stephen replied. " He is a good,
sturdy, straightforward lad, and I wish to bespeak
your kind offices for him, Aunt Marcia. I fancy he
wants employment in London, and I hope you will
stand his friend."

Oh, he cannot expect to be employed in the London
office of our house," replied Marcia  "it would

never answer. Percival would never hear of such a
thing; bul I will try what I can do."

There's another matter to which I want to direct
your attention, Aunt Marcia, and that is the way in
which you keep the house accounts. My father, if he
remains more at home, will be looking closely into
them as an occupation."

How come you to know anything about the house
accounts ? " inquired Miss La Touche, reddening.

My father gave me the house-book this morning,
and asked me to sum up the total before he wrote the
cheque," replied Stephen. " Fortunately, I could aver
that was quite right ; but on looking over some of the
items, I confess I was rather amazed at their peculiarity.
For instance, what a sum we pay for faggots 
quite enough to illuminate half the city of London."

Not faggots, you stupid boy," cried Marcia ; " you
should read ' forgets '  things I don't remember."

That's it !  you spell the word in more than
one way ; but the forgets amount to a large sum in
the aggregate."

You see I have so much to manage to make all
expenses meet," replied Marcia. " Now that Percival
pays a good board, your father will not allow the
slightest margin. I have to go through a great deal
to keep the house up to the mark, with these expensive
dinners, to say nothing of the girls' dress and
my own. As for dress, Percival would as soon think
of giving the elephant in the Zoological Gardens a
gold collar and badge, as he would give one of us

an ornament of any kind, and yet he won't be seen
with us if we are not dressed in the height of the
fashion."

The height of the fashion ! " exclaimed Stephen ;
that I take it is only the province of carriage people.
As we are generally walking people, I should say the
heels of the fashion would be near enough for the
ladies of this house."

There it is," said Marcia. " Percival and many
other men are never weary of declaiming against
the extravagance of women and their love of dress,
and yet they censure their female relatives unmercifully
if these do not appear to advantage, or if
their toilets are not strictly in fashion, and, above
all, fresh. It was only the other day that Percival
declined to take Fanny to the Botanic, because her
hat was not of the fashionable shape. It was very
good, and she looked quite pretty in it ; and this, after
he had urged my brother to give the girls a smaller
allowance than the sum which I had suggested."

Too bad  much too bad," answered Stephen.

"Yes; and he preached about the folly of giving
young girls an ample allowance, urging that it led to
vanity and waste. Now I know the very contrary to
be the case. A small allowance compels a woman to
think of her clothes, and cutting and contriving, and
moreover to be imposing on the public by trying to
make old clothes look like new."

Many ladies have to do that," said Stephen.

Then," continued Marcia, " the annoyance of having
vol. II. Q

to borrow the pattern of your well-dressed friend's
raiment, and the humiliation of being caught in the
act of taking a bird's-eye view of the cut of another
woman's sleeve, and the wearing imitation lace, and
other cheap horrors, and after all this, the insult yes,
it is an insult of being censured for not looking in
the fashion. Bah ! the men want everything in the
first style, and they object to pay for it, where women
are concerned ; but they never grudge themselves their
cigars and recJiercM dinners  not they."

There was so much truth in what Marcia had advanced,
that Stephen contented himself with an exculpation,
in so far as he was himself interested ; so
he said 

I do not care to see any woman very expensively
or fashionably dressed,  all I look for is good fit,
taste as simple as you please for girls ; but all must
be bright and fresh  freshness is the first thing in
any toilet. Good boots and gloves."

"The most expensive toilet of all is this one of
freshness, at least in London," said Marcia. " The
bill of the laundress would scare you into convulsions,
if you go in for Arcadian simplicity and washing
dresses. As to fit, the dressmakers charge quite as
much for making a print dress as they do for making
an expensive silk ; and good boots and gloves cost simplicity
quite as much as does a more pretentious toilet."

At any rate," responded Stephen, still preserving
the thread of his original caution, "don't you put
down 'forgets' and 'faggots,' meaning bonnets; only

think what a hold this would give Percival over you,
should my father make any investigations concerning
these items."

This was, perhaps, the most forcible argument
which could be brought to bear on the subject, and
Marcia, without committing herself to any promise,
thought it, nevertheless, well to agree with her nephew
that it would be advisable to let the house-book, in
future, represent its own legitimate expenses. Besides,
if her brother remained much at home, it would not
be safe to juggle with the house accounts,  she fully
admitted this also. Then they turned to other talk,
and it transpired that a missive from Hunter's Lodge
had informed Marcia that the Claverings were going
direct to Brydone, there to finish the rest of Frank's
holiday. Miss Clavering and Mr Glascott had taken
their departure already, and Miss Fanshawe was
coming at once to London for a week, to transact
some business, and would be the guest of Lady
Hautenbas.

Stephen smiled, but said nothing. He, however, resolved
to let the advantages of the Channel Islands,
and those of Jersey especially, be placed before his
pupil in the strongest light, and at once have the
time arranged for departure on their reading-tour
irremediably fixed.

There was a great contention afterwards over Colin
MacTaggart. Percival declared that he should not
be employed in the La Touche office, either at home
or abroad. The old gentleman declared that he ought

to be; and the whole family, with the exception of
Stephen, opined that it would be the best thing for
that youth if he could go out of the country at once.
The crime of poverty suggests the punishment of
immediate expatriation  especially that phase of
poverty which is termed genteel. This is the worst
phase, because it demands recognition from trie equals
of the criminal. " Go abroad," say they, not so much
for the benefit of the sufferer as to relieve themselves
of the incubus of a poor relation  the "incubus" of
whose presence is oftener more oppressive than the
duty of affording him help, either monetary or by
personal influence. The poor relation, unless his or
her state be redeemed by a patrician appearance,
should in all cases be felt, but never be seen.

When the family Vehmgericht was concluded,
Marcia inquired v:lio was to counsel Mr MacTaggart,
and put all the resolutions before him.

Oh, you certainly," replied two or three in chorus ;
women always manage these things well."

That means," replied Marcia, " that when there is
anything very disagreeable to be said or done, the
lady of the house is always supposed to be equal to
the occasion. However, I will manage this."

Colin arrived in due course, and it was very satisfactory
to his cousin Stephen to perceive that the
young Scotch gentleman was perfectly able to bear
the brunt of the whole of the house of La Touche.

CHAPTER XII.

IT IS THE UNEXPECTED THAT ALWAYS HAPPENS.

Now, Colin," said Marcia, a few days after his arrival,
as she plumped herself down on the spring sofa, trying
to look business-like, which was a complete failure,
and really looking like a comfortable matron,  " I want
to speak to you about your future prospects, as if I
were your mother, you know."

"Weel, just for the time being," replied Colin,
cautiously. " Ye never troubled much about my mother
when she was in life, and ye are no ma-an's wife yet,
ma good auntie ; still, for the time being, I will listen
to ye as if ye really were my mother."

Marcia bridled up a little at this answer, which was
delivered in rather a broader Scotch accent than
usual  for Colin was nervous, and in consequence he
cast the load on his soul into his speech ; and although
he neither stammered nor hesitated, he emphasised
his words most painfully. He might certainly
have kicked, or wrung his hands, or even
plucked at some near object, and thus come within

the range of his aunt's reprobation. As it was, she
merely said : " You must get rid of that accent, my
dear; you are very bad to-day,  perhaps you have it
at intervals." Marcia spoke as if she were treating of
B case of ague or intermittent fever; but as her object
was to conciliate this rough diamond, and to get him
to go quietly when opportunity should present itself,
she confined her attention to the matter in hand, and
sj.oke with a little air of authority which was far
from unbecoming. Leaving the accent to take care
of itself until a more convenient season, she said 

"My good lad, I have had the experience of a
dozen women in bringing up such a family of nephews
and nieces as I have here ; and by this time I know
pretty well what occupation is best suited, not only
for them, but for most other young people in whom
I may become interested. Of course, as your aunt, I
have been thinking how best to get you provided for ;
and I am truly pleased to find that you are ready to
work, and to set about it at once."

Colin merely inclined his head, but stuck himself
tighter into the wicker-basket chair in which he had
seated himself, making it creak at every movement.

"Oh, you must never sit in that chair!" cried
Marcia, hastily; "get up directly. That is Fanny's
chair  my little dog; it is her own property  dear
little faithful thing ! She bit you, you remember, the
night you came."

"I remember the little brute," quoth Colin,  "a
cross-grained character, I should say. Be assured I

do not care to sit in her chair. Chair ! what an unnatural
life for a doa? ! "

That I should live to hear my Fanny called a
brute ! " returned Marcia, indignantly. " However,
never mind,  we are talking business now. About
your occupation,  I think you would not do well
in the same office as my brother, eh ? "

As no time was left for a reply, Marcia went on :
Relations never do agree in the same house of business,
even if they are in widely different departments.
You would not be available for the foreign branch of
the house, would you ? "

At present I speak and write no language but my
own," Colin made answer; "but I could easy learn
any other,  I don't mind work and study. I think
also," he added, with a quiet pride that was quite ennobling,
" there would be little to find fault with in
my accounts."

"There is no vacancy in the foreign branch just
now," continued Marcia, without seeming to heed her
nephew's remark. " Mr Percival told me yesterday
that there was no occupation for another clerk there."
(Marcia always spoke of the La Touche nephews as
Mister So-and-so, thereby drawing a distinction between
these and the inferior members of the family, as she
termed the MacTaggarts and some worthy cousins of
the name of Fulton : these last were trying relatives,
who always contrived to call at Hinton Square at the
seasons when Marcia was in full blow, and did not look
for the advent of country cousins.)

"I'm not particular," Colin replied; "my great
wish is to get a situation wherein to earn a decent
living."

Very proper,  very proper indeed ! " continued
Mania, giving her hair a pat, as she stole a look at
i lie mirror which was on one side of her. " Very sensible,
too, to see that you would not do in the same
office with my brother : on this point you quite agree
with me."

Colin had said nothing of the kind ; but now he replied,
with the most comprehensive and delightful candour,
"I should not like to work with any of the
family here."

Exactly so, " answered Miss La Touche, quite
relieved to find that her nephew had no aspirations
towards entering the office ; " you see there would be
so many masters, and incompatibility of  what is it ? 
and all that. I know them all so well, and have to go
through so much myself daily with all their whims
and fatigues,  to say nothing of the dinners, which
really are knocking nails into my coffin. But I have
not forgotten you, and that is why I wanted to talk
with you this morning. I had a conversation yesterday
with Mr Whyfly, who "

Mister wha ? " interrupted Colin, startled into his
broadest accent at the sound of this extraordinary
surname.

"Whyfly! no, I think it is Highflyer, yes, Mr
Highflyer, the missionary somewhere out in Africa.
He came back last month with a dreadful colour,

from being obliged to eat all his food half mixed with
mud or something. However that may be, his complexion
is gone, my dear,  I know it to my cost, for
he put my Eau che Nil satin dress quite in the background
when he came near me, the evening he dined
here. Well, he called yesterday, and I took the opportunity
of speaking about you. Mr Whyfly thinks that
if you would like to go and convert some of the tribes
on the Congo, and try and release the slaves there, 
or was it on Cape Comorin ? all the same thing,  he
could find you some work, and that you might be an
ornament to the cause  that is, if you are not eaten ;
but you can't afford to be nice, and must take your
chance of that."

"I'm not going to the Congo,  that's in Africa,
Aunt Marcia,  and Cape Comorin is on the south
of Hindustan," returned the youth with a grin, incited
by the shakiness of his aunt's geography ; " ma
wish and purpose is to get some occupation in or near
London. I would not object to go to one of the Continental
towns or ports ; but out of Europe I cannot
go, at least at present. However, I would much prefer
to remain in London."

Why ? " asked Marcia, quickly.

Just because I have the beginning, at any rate, of
something to do. The Scots minister who has that
Presbyterian Church near the British Museum has
already secured me three pupils to learn book-keeping
in the evenings. I'm pretty fair at book-keeping and
shorthand writing, so I hope in time to get up an

evening class; but I want occupation in the day.
Your friend, perhaps, might know of something I could
do as a city missionary; I am sure there is scope
enough for that, without going farther afield. Many
<*ood men have worked in the home mission before
"oinrr abroad. Noble David Livingstone did so."

David ? Not the one that played the harp ? I
ought to have an interest in King David, for I play
the harp myself. Really there is so much to remember
nowadays, that one gets confused. There
is, or was, a David who composed an opera 
or painted the 'Slaughter of the Innocents,' or
something: his name was Felicity, I am sure of

that."

Colin very nearly groaned. The heathenism of the
moneyed classes was exercising his mind, and no
wonder. He refrained, however, from making remarks
on his aunt's mixed information, and contented
himself with simply stating that he would
like to work as a missionary in London.

Why not go to foreign parts at once," said Marcia,
if you can get a chance of doing so ? The Church
Missionary Society would send you free. I am sure
it ought to do something for a relative of this family,
seeing what lots of sermons and collections we have
had to endure for it. There would be the passage for
nothing, you see, and they allow a sum for outfit, which
you could keep, for I don't fancy they dress much on
the Congo ; and I could rake up enough for the voyage,
the lads here have lots of old clothes."

I'm much obliged to you," returned Colin, stoutly ;
but I told you before, Aunt Marcia, that I do not
intend to go out of Europe at present."

Marcia was proceeding to administer a searching
inquiry with regard to this decision, when she was
frustrated in her intention by the door being gently
opened. The cause of the interruption was the quiet
entry of Lillian Fanshawe.

Mr MacTaggart, who had been sitting opposite the
door and very close to it, stumbled against Fanny's
chair as he backed himself out of the visitor's way,
and so set a little velvet footstool, shaped like a pound-cake,
and beaded on its surface with the La Touche
arms, spinning over the room. The impetus caused it
to rush full tilt against a Chippendale table, upon
which a bijou service of Dresden china was set
out in great state.

This had been a gift to one of Marcia's nieces a
year or two ago ; but that good lady, feeling that the
presentee was not of an age to appreciate the value of
it, had quietly appropriated the whole concern, satisfying
her conscience that she would leave it to Eva in
her will.

The cannon of the footstool against the table very
nearly brought the Dresden china to a premature end :
indeed nothing could have saved it had not Miss Fan-share,
with quiet adroitness, seized the edge of the
table as it quivered from the collision, and held it
firmly before it could rock forwards. "There are
only a few things displaced  nothing broken," she

said, in her measured tones, reassuring both aunt
and nephew. "I ought not to have come in so
abruptly; but I did not want to bring a servant all
ills way up-stairs. It is all my fault," she added,
bowing graciously to Colin.

"Oh, what an escape! When I heard that dreadful
chink, I thought all was over with that precious
china," cried Marcia, as soon as she had recovered
her breath. "My good lad," she continued, addressing
Colin, " you should always be careful where china
is concerned. You cannot tell how much I value that
set, the gift of an old admirer, now "

No more," cut in Colin, in a tone which was intended
to be at once sympathetic and conciliatory.

Xo, no, not quite no more," returned Marcia,
hurriedly ; " you should let people conclude their
own sentences, my dear. The gentleman I allude
no business to be no more  at least, not at
present. He owes the firm a lot of money. I meant
ay that he is now in Japan, or in some of those
American places."

"Asiatic, ye mean," corrected Colin, in a rasping
tone. "I  all I can say is, that I am very sorry
that I have startled you, ladies; but as the gimcracks
is safe, I hope I may say that no harm
has been done, Aunt Marcia."

The epithet "gimcracks " applied to this precious
china was .mite enough to send Miss La Touche into
such a transport of indignation as to render hei
totally unfit for the ordinary purposes of society, for

an hour at least. Now, as it was Miss Fanshawe's
purpose to secure the attention of Marcia on an important
subject, for which reason she had called early
to consult her, that young lady employed all the resources
of her genius to at once quench Miss La
Touch e, and at the same time to get rid of Mr
MacTaggart.

A telegraphic signal, managed with great adroitness
of eye and expression, apprised Marcia that she would
do well to reserve her philippics for a more convenient
season. The hint was taken with magnetic celerity,
and the two ladies simultaneously joined issue to expedite
the departure of Colin MacTaggart.

"You are just in time, Miss Fanshawe," said
Marcia, "for I am rather hurried, and you will be
able to give us some information upon the subject
we are now discussing. Do you know anybody who
wants a missionary, or to send one to the lower parts
of the City ? Mr MacTaggart  Miss Fanshawe. I
ought to have introduced you, but the china  well,
as you are a clergyman's daughter, you will be able to
tell us how to set about all that sort of thing,  the
heathen, you know, and the roughs, which abound
somewhere at the East End."

I have not the faintest knowledge of the subject,"
replied Miss Lillian, with consummate coolness. " In
fact, I make a point of ignoring all religious societies,
for I don't see why the role of clergyman's daughter
should be made so professional as it often is. But
really, I don't know anything more about the 

Society except that papa preaches a sermon
annually for it, and sends the money up to London."

"I don't mean to trouble you," answered Marcia,
"but perhaps you know of somebody to whom we
could apply, and who could put us in the way of
Bending out this gentleman. He has a mission in
life for converting people; and I believe it leads to
Bone good things if people go at it in the right
way.*

Miss Fanshawe could hardly restrain a smile : however,
as her policy just now was to stand well with
Marcia, she replied graciously, "The Church Missionary
Society, my dear Miss La Touche, would be the
most proper source whereat to apply for information.
Is your friend interested in the matter ? " she inquired,
looking at Colin, and feeling quite sure that
Colin was the individual concerned.

Mr MacTaggart assented, and added that it was
imperative that he should be employed at once; he
would prefer working in the city.

"Waifs and strays and all that kind of thing," interpolated
Marcia,  "look up the parents, and preach
against the dev  I mean the old gentleman. I think,
too, there would be some reading required. Yes ; I
am sure there's reading among the duties."

Would that not fall under the head of a Scripture-reader's
work ? " said Miss Fanshawe.

"Exactly  the very thing!" replied Marcia, who
knew as much about the matter as a cat. "Do you
know of a place vacant for a Scripture-reader ?"

Miss Fanshawe did not, but she would give Mr
MacTaggart the address of a friend of her father, a
Mr Carbury, who lived in Charterhouse Square, and
who, she said, went in for that kind of thing. " And
a very good thing it is," continued Miss Fanshawe,
turning up her eyes piously, and beaming on Colin as
they settled to his focus.

"Very well," said MacTaggart, seeing that an answer
was expected of him ; " the thing is, how am I
to become a Scripture-reader ? I am not sure that
I understand all the duties required by such an appointment."


Oh," said Marcia, " you will have to read the
Bible, and explain it according to your own ideas,
and if the people hold a different opinion, you can
let them have it  that's the comfort of Protestantism.
And you can look up . the low places, and find out
where fever really is, and where decent servants are
to be found, and "

Pick up a choice bit of old china here and there,"
interrupted Miss Fanshawe, with just a suspicion of
sarcasm in her tone.

Quite so," returned Marcia, en grand se'rieux. " You
must keep your eyes open, Colin, and the chances are
that you may fall in with a bit of Worcester or Crown
Derby worth pounds for a shilling or two."

I'm not a connoisseur," declared Colin, when he
could get a word in. " A cup and saucer is to me a
cup and saucer, and nothing more."

But you should, in compliment to science," said

Marcia, "endeavour to know something about old
china ; you must go with the age, my dear. You will
be doing a service to your fellow-creatures should you
rescue some fine old piece from oblivion. Of course
you must make yourself acquainted with some of the
marks by which antique porcelain is recognised. I
will rive you a lesson on the subject some other time.
I can only detain you a few minutes, as I want to go
out before luncheon."

Here Miss Fanshawe bestowed an approving nod
on her friend, as much as to say, "Shorten your advice,
and let him go."

"What I want to impress upon you as to your
future career," said Marcia, sententiously, " is drawn
from Mr "Why fly's experience. You know  or rather
you don't know  that Mr Highflyer  I never can
remember that good man's name  did up the people
in the low part of the City before he was sent out to
Tamik-el-Hashid, or Lady something, a place with a
sampson of cotton-wool in the sound,  it does not
matter. Well, he found the greatest comfort and
benefit from having a partner in the work  a female."

A female partner ! " cried Colin, aghast ; and even
Miss Fanshawe opened her eyes wide and laughed.

Yes," said Marcia  " a partner and a female ; but
she must have a purse, my dear. You will be tormented
to death to feed this one and clothe that one,
and attend to the spiritual schooling (which means
pay) of a whole back-court. Now, there are plenty
of good women  widows  left well off, who like a

little pious excitement, and to have their say, and be
looked up to; and Mr Why  Highly  flier  got
hold of one of these, the relict of a rich dry salter, and
she worked with him, and he made her "

His wife," suggested Miss Fanshawe, in the hope
of cutting Miss La Touche short.

His wife ! no, indeed ; once married and his prestige
would have been gone. It's like that with curates
: the church is crowded as long as the curate is
unmarried, but a great change takes place when he
becomes a Benedict ; so with the Scripture - reader,
when he is young. A wife is a positive bar to his
success ; Mr Highly knew better."

Did he make the dry salter woman ? " Colin

was beginning in the interests of strict morality and
truth.

My dear, he made her his almoner," interrupted
Marcia.

That's right," replied Colin, much relieved. " I
did not know that such an office was attached to a
city missionary or Scripture-reader."

It's purely optional and honorary : you may
not always find a suitable person," answered Marcia.
Of course it must be a woman with money, and one
willing to be in subjection."

The almoner, in this instance," said Miss Fan-share,
turning to Colin, " dispenses her own money,
and applies it to the cases recommended by the .
Mr Whyfly was in luck; such an experience,
I fancy, does not occur to many."

VOL. II. . R

"Much better not," replied Colin, vigorously.
' Thank you for your advice, Aunt Marcia. But no
female partnership for me! I shall hope to raise a
Little money by general subscription, should I be
fortunate enough to get the occupation I want; and
ii you will allow me to associate you in any work of
mercy, I shall only be too proud to reckon upon the
assistance of ma kinswoman."

So saying, Colin rose, and taking from Miss Fans
i a we the card upon which she had written Mr Car-berry's
address, he took leave of the ladies, and went
forth in his honest single-heartiness, very much as
one who had come off victorious over the world and
the flesh. Aunt Marcia, at any rate, respected him
as being one upon whom the good things of the world
were utterly thrown away, for she remarked as he
closed the door 

e is of the old-fashioned stuff,  nothing will
turn hin, if he believes a thing to be right : he would
go through fire and water for a principle."

Ay," said Miss Fanshawe, half sadly ; " the great
thing in this world is to be sure that one is right. Indeed
it is a great puzzle to define the right thing:
society goes one way, moral and religious teaching
often go directly the other. I suppose the
height of perfection is reached when we manage
to mix all together, so as to stand well with the
world."

Money always binds the most conflicting positions
and opinions together," moralised Marcia. "I don't

mean to say that it always brings happiness," she continued,
looking very wise.

I don't know," said Lillian, slowly ; " money certainly
smoothes the way to happiness in many cases.
Just look at our family at home : we are striving
every nerve to keep up appearances, and only those
who are situated in like circumstances can understand
the amount of self-denial we all have to go through
in order to keep up our position before the world ;
and yet the world in general must know that the
effort is great, and perhaps wonders why we make it."

I certainly think," said Marcia, with the want of
tact which was perhaps the strongest point in her
character  " I certainly think you would have been
better off had you lived at the rectory, and let Pinnacles
Court."

Then," returned Lillian, " we should have been
but parish clergy ; now, at the Court we are county
gentry."

Just so," returned Marcia ; " then you have your
reward for the sacrifices you make : you are the Fan-shades
of Pinnacles Court, and if you tell the world
that the first Fanshawe came over with the Conqueror
and Queen Matilda as the Court tanner, the world
will respect you accordingly. My dear, we must go
with the times. The maxim of the day is self-glorification
; some take it out in money, some in the boast of
ancient family."

Yes ; and in the next generation, my father thinks,
the boast will be that of the best crammed young person,

male or female, under a given standard of age.
Women, he says, will step into the place of men, and
we are to have an age of preaching females, medical
females, and lawyer females, and, of course, their
counterpart also  semi-feminised men."

How dreadful ! " exclaimed Marcia. " What's to
become of the babies ? "

That subject my father did not touch upon ; but
both my parents seem to think there are too many
children in the world. My mother is always grumbling
at there being so many of us  as if we could help
it ! However, I, as the eldest, see it to be my duty
to relieve them of my maintenance as speedily as
possible ; but before I make a final decision, I have
come to consult you."

What ! " exclaimed Marcia in great delight,  " has

Percival come forward in the proper form ? I was

i that he had rather cooled on the matter. He

has been, I suppose, to see you at your aunt's house, 

quite the proper thing "

You are quite mistaken in your inferences, Miss
La louche," replied the young lady, as soon as she
could get a word in. " Your nephew is no suitor of
mine; I have not set eyes on him since I came to
London."

Of course I only assumed this," said Marcia, wondering.
" We heard you were on a visit to Lady Haut-eneas,
before I got your note last week telling me
you were in town on business for Mr Fanshawe.
Percival is so close when he likes, and never tells me

more than he can help, that I thought it possible he
might have availed himself of the opportunity of
calling upon you, and following up this privilege. I
know he always admired you very much ; and I am
very sorry that I am not to claim you as a relative."

As Marcia spoke she pressed the girl's hand with
real sincerity; for of all the young ladies who had
been admitted as " possible " for Percival, his aunt
most undoubtedly preferred Miss Fanshawe. Not
only would that young lady have done credit to the
taste of Mr La Touche, but as his wife she would
have added dignity to the alliance, and would, above
all things, have kept Percival straight. This certainly
was a great chance missed ; but the die was cast, and
Miss La Touche, curious to know who the real suitor
of Miss Fanshawe might be, proceeded to ascertain
that fact by means of a leading question.

I suppose some one of the eligibles who have the
entree of the house of Lady Hautenbas has fallen a
victim to your charms ? " said Marcia, smiling.

No," returned her friend, without any circumlocution
; " the victim lives mostly in the country, and he
is an elderly man "

Colonel Leppell ! " Marcia almost screamed with
astonishment. " Why, the man has only been a
widower a few weeks ! and he has such a host of
children ; and he has no money  not a rap beyond
his pay ; and he must be forty-eight if he is a day."

You are quite wrong," returned Miss Fanshawe,
who sat enjoying Marcia's ejaculations. " I mean you

are wrong as to the individual, but you are right as
bo the sum of Colonel Leppell's age; he is past forty-eight
years. My victim is turned fifty-eight years.
Now, cannot you guess who the victim is?"

Marcia opened her eyes, turned very pink, and
then gasped, "It is never, never Mr Glascott  Mr
Glascott of Brydone ! "

The same; and why not?" returned Miss Fan-share,
the marble hue of her skin now flushing with
a lovely colour. As her eyes dilated, Marcia could
not help noticing how much the girl resembled the
late Mrs Leppell,  never had she been more struck
by t lie likeness.

Why not ? " reiterated Lillian. " Mr Glascott is
a handsome, healthy man, very destitute of whims
and freaks. His fortune is large; and in my opinion
the alliance has only one drawback  not the drawback
of disparity of age,  that's nobody's business
but our own,  but the drawback of the cousin 
wind, as she is called  Miss Clavering. I have
come to consult you on this point, for you have had
so much experience with girls."

Do you mean that you anticipate any difficulty as
i" Miss Clavering's residence at Brydone, in the event
of your marrying her guardian ? " Marcia inquired.

That is just the point," returned Miss Fanshawe ;
u and it is so important that I have refrained from
giving Mr Glascott a decided answer till I can see my
why to arrange this. There cannot be two mistresses
ai l'.rydone  that is quite clear."

No ; but Miss Clavering would cede to her
guardian's wife, I should think, without any demur,"
said Marcia. " You might propose," continued the
lady, " that Miss Clavering should live half the year
with her brother and his wife."

Mr Glascott feels inclined to propose that ; but he
does not seem to be very hearty on the matter. He
cannot see why we cannot live amicably together."

Nor do I," replied Marcia. " A little consideration
is due, I think, to Miss Clavering. She has
gone to Brydone with the idea that she is to be sole
mistress there ; all the furnishing and arrangements, I
believe, depend upon her. She will hardly have time
to get the place in order and assume the duties when
she will find herself displaced. You must allow it
will be very hard on her; neither you nor I would
like it, were we in her place."

That is quite true," Lillian answered ; " but the
fact is that I don't like Miss Clavering. I never
liked her from the first moment I beheld her."

Lillian confidently expected that Miss La Touche
would join issue with her at this assertion. She was
not aware that Marcia, so far from resenting Percival's
rejection, was in total ignorance that he had made
proposals to Miss Clavering.

His leaving the picnic party in Barkholme woods
so suddenly was universally believed to have been the
effect of a severe attack of dyspepsia, accompanied by
fainting ; and as he had suffered some time before
from a like seizure, Marcia had taken the whole en

grand ttrieux, and highly approved of her nephew's
admit management in getting himself conveyed so
opportunely to Yarnee in the conveyance of Mr

Chorea

On his arrival there Mr La Touche had, to save
appearances, consulted a doctor, and when Marcia
returned to the Red Lion Hotel she found Percival
in bed, vowing he had taken a chill, and abjuring
picnics for evermore.

Thus it was that Miss La Touche was in profound
ignorance of Percival's wooing. She had thought him
indifferent that day towards Miss Fanshawe, but
si a- ascribed that circumstance to a proclivity which
this nephew had of playing jargon volage, and as
aval made no sign, the subject passed from her
mind.

Miss Fanshawe at once perceived this, and thought
it a i sable to enlighten her hostess: it would

hardly be wise to let Marcia imagine that her dislike
to Miss Clavering should have arisen from Percival's
attentions. These attentions had at one time been
prominently directed towards herself,  so much so,
that there was some ground for this inference had
Miss La Touche known more, or had she been malevolently
inclined.

So Miss Fanshawe kept to general topics, attributes
objection to Miss Clavering as an inmate to
the desire she had always had of being sole mistress
of a house of her own.

You know," she said, in support of this declaration,

how little I have had of real comfort at home : my
position as the eldest daughter is completely ignored,
or, at least, it is only recognised when I can do what
none of the rest can or will do. My presence in
London is a case in point. Some family affairs
require law business and some interviewing of different
persons. My father can't leave home just now,
and my mother is only recovering from another baby,
so I have been sent, principally, I believe, because I
am supposed to be able to manage Lady Hautenbas,
who is rather idiotic where business and writing
business letters are concerned."

But you have your reward," Marcia replied. " Mr
Glascott, I take it, is in town."

Yes ; he came up from Brydone to be out of the
way of the furnishing and so forth, and to make some
purchases. He called two days ago, and we settled
almost everything but this affair of Miss Clavering' s
home. All will be finally decided in a week ; but I do
wish that girl could make her home with her brother."

Why not ? " said Miss La Touche ; " I am sure Mrs
Clavering would be delighted with such an arrangement."


"Yes; but I doubt if Mr Clavering would appreciate
it. The brother and sister are very unlike ; and
Mr Glascott admits that "Willina's outspoken ways
and her independence of manner rather irritate Mr
Clavering."

She will most likely marry soon, and well," said
Marcia.

If she would do that, I should not mind her residing
for a time at Brydone. I think she intends to
marry ; but, if I am not very much mistaken, she will
neither marry soon nor well  for well, of course, means
money, or money's worth in position and connection.
She will have to wait long before that is achieved."

Then there is an admirer in the case ? " inquired
the elder lady.

I 'believe so ; but I am sure Mr Glascott would
not consent to the match,  there are objections to the
family of the gentleman."

Now, as Miss Fanshawe was alluding to Mr Stephen
La Touche, she could not in common propriety say
more; and as Marcia had seriously believed that her
younger nephew had been much inclined towards
Lillian, she had no idea that Stephen had the remotest
idea of aspiring to Miss Clavering, and so she took in
this history very readily. She, however, enjoined her
friend to accept the present state of things, sweetening
the pill by the assurance that Willina would be
much from home paying visits. After the first disappointment,
Miss Clavering would naturally leave
home more readily when she knew that Mr Glascott
had some one to look after him and make his house
comfortable.

Miss Fanshawe conceded that she had not viewed
the subject in that light, and she therefore drew comfort
from the suggestions of her friend: yes, she
would finally accept Mr Glascott, and leave Miss
Clavering to chance. " I believe she dislikes me as

much as I dislike her," Miss Lillian averred. " It is
just as well, as she will do her best to be as much
away from Brydone as possible."

Of course, she as yet knows nothing of Mr Glas-cost's
plans ?  she will be greatly astonished," quoth
Marcia.

I think she suspects something, and J daresay
she lays it to my wiles," replied Miss Fanshawe.
'women are fond of indulging in these ideas where
an elderly man and a young girl are concerned. But,
to tell you the truth, Colonel Leppell has been the
main instrument in bringing this about."

I should not have thought that he was much of a
matchmaker," Miss La Touche remarked.

Nor is he ; but Mr Glascott was struck at first by
the remarkable likeness which I bear to the late Mrs
Leppell when she was young : the Colonel thought he
would do us both a good turn, and so he prompted
Mr Glascott to pay his addresses to me. For my
part, I really like Mr Glascott, and a marriage with
him will be a most fortunate method of escaping from
home."

And he never thought of the difference this would

CD

make to Miss Clavering* ? " returned Marcia.

I suppose not. The Colonel is my friend, and he,
knowing how I am situated at home, and that I am
penniless, sought to do me a kindness. Miss Clavering
has a little money of her own, and I daresay she
will be provided for in addition, if she marry to the
satisfaction of her brother and her guardian."

Um ! and what will your parents say to your
engagement ? " inquired Miss La Touche.

I am sure they ought to be very much gratified,"
the young lady replied, with the utmost coolness. " My
mother gets rid of me without trouble. It is possible
that my father will object to the disparity of age ; but
he will remember his large family of daughters and
be thankful, and they will both combine to make my
marriage useful as a means of getting off my sisters."

Very natural," observed Maria.

But I do not intend anything of the kind," replied
the young lady ; " and that is one advantage of Brydone
being over the sea. Mr Glascott shall never feel that
he has married a family, nor shall my mother make a
convenience of me in any way."

This was conducting matters with a vengeance,
Marcia thought ; but she merely said, " I suppose,
when all is arranged, your wedding will follow immediately
? "

I think so ; but Mr Glascott is going to have
a large house-warming, and he wishes Miss Clavering
to do the honours. The Claverings are to stay there,
and some other friends. The engagement will be announced
after that, but of course I shall inform my
father. At present, please consider what I have told
you as a secret."

Marcia promised ; and as Miss Fanshawe had taken
her advice, she parted on very good terms with that
lady, notwithstanding that she scarcely approved of
the manner in which Lillian had mentioned her

mother. " I suppose Mrs Fanshawe has herself to
thank," mused Miss La Touche ; " she is a hard
worldly woman. At the same time, I don't admire
Lillian for being so ready to impart that fact to
every one she sees. Mr Glascott is a kindly, nice
man ; but I think he would have done better to
eschew Miss Fanshawe and stick to his cousin."

Thus Marcia, who, after eating her luncheon in
solitude  for Miss Fanshawe, apprehensive of meeting
Percival, who often came home to that meal, had
refused the invitation to remain  proceeded to join
her nieces, who were all out on a shopping expedition.


Lillian Fanshawe returned to her aunt's house, and
wrote to Mr Glascott at his hotel. It was such a note
as to bring that gentleman, glowing with rapture, to
Lady Hautenbas' abode. Miss Fanshawe's aunt had
gone for an airing, and had been advised by her niece
to take the opportunity of returning some visits in the
country, the day being fine, and the roads in good condition.
Lillian, therefore, had the field to herself ; and
at the end of an hour's conference everything was
discussed and settled between Mr Glascott and his
betrothed wife.

To think, my dear," said he, " that after these long-years
of unwedded life, I should meet my fate with
one who is the exact counterpart of the woman who
was the love of my early days. It is wonderfully
strange ! When I look upon you, all my youth, all
my first fresh feelings, return in redoubled force.

Happiness has come to me whilst I have been
sleeping."

"I hope so," she answered; "may it ever remain
with you. It will be my utmost endeavour to make
your home happy,  to prove myself in every way
worthy of the choice you have made."

Mr Glascott pressed her hands within his own,
and then, bending low, imprinted a kiss on her head.
This, in his devotion and timid respect, was all he
ventured to do.

I dread one thing," he said, after a pause ; " your
parents will take exception to my age."

"No," she said; "I am years older than my own
age, and they both know that. Better too for you
that it is so. It is a mistake to measure the portion
of life by the stiff hard measure of the number of
moons that have passed over us. I feel sure that
my proper position in this world is that of the wife
of an elderly man."

Was she sincere in what she then said ? was it not
rather that her wifehood would screen her from the
passion for Francis Clavering, which was burnt into
every fibre of her being ?

Did she not bestow herself upon the man before
her from the conviction that, by so doing, she was
securing more opportunity and more freedom for
intercourse with this dangerous friend than she
could with any propriety achieve did she remain
single ? and would not Mr Clavering, on his part,
gladly assent to her marriage with his cousin as the

best method of cementing family affection, and adding
social status to the head of the house ?

Ah, yes; Brydone, by her means, should be the
happy harbour of refuge  the place whereto Francis
should repair when, perchance, he might be overwrought
in brain, and be glad of intellectual help.

She included Mary in a second-hand kind of way in
these ruminations ; of Willina she never even thought.

But Mr Glascott had not, in spite of his happiness,
been thus forgetful ; and the difference which his unexpectedly
entering into matrimony might make to
Miss Clavering certainly caused him some anxiety,
and, if the truth must be told, some reproach also.

He had all his life shown a great preference for
Francis. The young man's talent, his ambition, and
the fixed intention which he expressed to make a
name in the world, took his guardian by storm, as
it were ; and thus, unfeignedly, Mr Glascott came to
regard him as the one to whom all must be ceded, and
to whom every consideration must be allowed. He
loved Willina, but it was in a totally different manner.
In the brother he felt pride ; with the sister, he could
not forget that she was of the sex that had deceived
him, and laid his life desolate.

As years passed on this feeling somewhat changed.
When Willina emerged from the Brussels convent at
which she had been educated  beautiful, frank, and
as truthful as the light of day  Everard Glascott
began to wonder why he had not more greatly appreciated
his charming cousin ; and on giving this

matter serious consideration, he had resolved, after
providing for Francis, to make her mistress of his
house, and further, to dower her handsomely when
the time should come for her to leave him for a
husband's home.

At the same time, it never occurred to him to think
that she would do other than make a good marriage ;
still less could he imagine that he himself would ever
seek to be taken in the toils of matrimony. Strange,
too, that finding himself, late in life, in the position of
a wooer, he should be told that the only objection to
his suit lay in the presence of Willina Clavering as
an inmate of his house !

This objection being now cleared away, and the
reason of its existence being alleged by Miss Fanshawe
to have greatly arisen from a feeling of delicacy in
ousting Mr Glascott's ward from her position, together
with some fear of that young lady's resentment, all,
it was to be hoped, would go on propitiously for the
future.

Mr Glascott undertook to answer for Miss Covering's
ready acquiescence in his marriage scheme. She
was so generous, so keenly sensible to all in which his
happiness was concerned, that opposition on her part
was scarcely possible, Thus he spoke.

The betrothed soon parted. Their adieux were cordial,
but neither of them evinced any great demonstration
of affection. This arose on Mr Glascott's part
from a nervous fear of being prompted to act as a
younger man would have acted, and by so doing lose

in dignity in the eyes of his betrothed. In spite of
his enchantment, he maintained some regard for the
fitness of things.

Lillian looked magnificent, as her wooer kissed her
hand and uttered his thanks. " How fortunate I
am !" said she to herself. " Mr Clavering will now
find in reality a second home at Brydone. Write
to my father," she said aloud; "you must ask his
consent, but it's only a matter of form."

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XIII.

Bygone.

At length Mr Glascott, after much locomotion and
sundry delays, convened his guests, and found himself
installed in a permanent home under the roof of a
habitation which had been more or less tenanted by
successive generations of his family. It was here that
he had intended, in the first blush of his youthful
hopes, to bring his bride, rejoicing, if the truth must
be told, that the intervening ocean would be a most
successful element in separating her from her mother,
and would, at all events, secure that retirement which,
to some persons, is indispensable to the comfort of
newly married life.

We know that these hopes were frustrated ; but if
all things come to those who wait, Everard Glascott,
with the prospects now opening before him, believed
perhaps that fortune had favoured him with the kindliest
sympathy ; for was not the bride who was coming
to adorn that home a perfect resemblance of his first
fair love, and had she not been given to him out of

the hand of the man who at one time had been his
successful rival, nay, his foe ?

It was strange, passing strange ; but does not history
repeat itself in the small ring as surely as in the large
circle ? "What is there new beneath the sun ?

It was a peculiar-looking place this seaside home of
Brydone  unpicturesque in itself, but largely indebted
to its surroundings for many features of interest, which
seemed to increase in fascination as the eye dwelt
'upon them. The reason of this may be, that the
whole region was so utterly different from the conventional
style of watering-place  combining as it did
the wild beauty of the Claddagh with the barren
appearance of the ancient Norman farm - dwelling,
with its bare stones, unclothed by ivy or trailing brier,
its cottage' homes, little else than stone hovels, comfortless
and cold. The redeeming points in this part
of the scene were the bright slate-blue hydrangeas,
which everywhere grew in great perfection, together
with the orange-umber tints which dotted portions of
the undulating ground. These imparted a glow of
warmth, and were in highly artistic keeping with the
blue colour of the flowering-shrubs.

The house belonging to Mr Glascott had no particular
history : it had served as a refuge in far-away
times to the fallen fortunes of a family long extinct,
the members of which had fought for Charles I.
with stanch fidelity, and had met with  the usual
reward when that monarch's son came to his own.
How it afterwards came into the possession of those

bearing his name, Mr Glascott was utterly ignorant,
nor did he apparently seek information on the matter.
That it had descended honestly from father to son,
or from uncle to nephew, he was thoroughly convinced.
He liked the place, and his easy fortune would make
it available as a comfortable home for his declining-years.


The peculiarity of the building lent it some charm.
White stone or red brick would have been somehow
out of place, or positively glaring, in juxtaposition
with other points of colour ; hence its composition of
grey small stones did credit to the taste of the builder,
or perhaps to the circumstance that no other material
was at hand at the time of its erection.

These stones were cemented with a composition of
sea-shell lime, coarse gravel, and a proportion of the
Melobesia polymoiyha, a coralline which grows profusely
on the submarine rocks about the whole of
the Channel Islands.

St Columba knew the value of this coralline. It
is said that he caused the cement of which it forms a
large component part to be employed in welding
together the stones of the Abbey of Iona.

Even under these conditions of its early erection,
Brydone could not pretend to approach the appearance
of an abbey, nor even to that of a manor-house. It
probably had been a yeoman's dwelling at the outset ;
subsequently, and at various periods, enlarged and
added to, according to the taste or convenience of the
inhabitants of the time. It was remarkably long and

wide in construction, and possibly its only virtue
consisted in the thickness of its walls, and the deep
embrasures which gave an ancient picturesque appearance
to the diamond-paned windows which were set
within them. A handsome terrace (an addition of
modern times) ran round three sides of the house, and
the ground beyond undulated downwards till it joined
the rocks and the sea.

Willina Clavering was delighted ; there was so much
to be done in addition to what had already been done,
so much of that life which a woman only can bring
into any dwelling, to diffuse in every form, to permeate,
and make the presence of that life to be felt.
It was the acme of the young girl's hope  her guardian
with a settled home of his own, and she the mistress,
dispensing his hospitality, his charity, and all
the incidental kindnesses which now from a goodman's
heart, and which become doubly blessed when
there is a true, good woman to guide their course.

Francis Clavering and his bride came alone. It
was thought the kinder thing on the part of their
hosts that, under the burden of her sorrow, Mary's
visit should be at first as private as possible, and
unfettered by the presence of other guests. This
suited admirably. The two young ladies were daily
drawn together, becoming steadily affectionate from
the appreciation of each other's worth ; and the occupation
which each day, in some shape or other, demanded,
prevented time from lying heavily on their
hands.

Much to the surprise of his wife, Frank, who really
knew very little of this residence of Brydone  nothing
beyond the sea-bathing trips of his holiday times, in
fact  began to express himself delighted with the
place, and to avow that, as a geological hunting-ground,
the island of Jersey had hitherto met with
scant justice at the hands of savant, and the scientific
world in general.

Have you made any great discovery, Frank ? "
said Miss Clavering, as her brother promulgated this
opinion.

I can scarcely say that I have hitherto made a
great discovery. I have known all along that this
island contains no fossils ; but my rambles of late
convince me that Jersey possesses an abundance of
a class of rock known as Old Ehyolites."

Old who ! " exclaimed both the girls in a breath.

Old Ehyolites," repeated Frank, in a tone which
bordered on exasperation. " It is the name of a species
of rock which is rare, very rare, in other parts of the
globe. Well, if I had been asked six months ago, I
could not have stated positively that I had ever met
with more than a mere sample specimen of this variety
of rock ; now, two miles hence, the geological wealth
of this peculiar variety is simply amazing. I wonder
it has escaped observation so long."

I think you told me that Jersey rocks belong to
the Primary Formation," said Mrs Clavering, looking
highly scientific.

Quite right," replied the husband and master, with

an air of patronage. " You know, of course, what
Primary Formation means ? "

Hum !  the first rock or land safe to sit upon after
the flood, I suppose," answered Madam Mary.

Not exactly. The first dry land which was ever
created is the Primary Formation," corrected Mr Clavering.
" Now it is probable that Jersey had emerged
out of the primeval waters long before England and
France were known."

Why, where were they ? "

Still buried beneath the deep. They belong to the
Secondary and Tertiary periods," said Mr Clavering.

Fancy England being secondary in any way ! Are
there any more rocks with queer names about these
parts ? "

If I were to say that, classified scientifically, there
would be nearly a hundred varieties, I should not be
beyond the mark ; but I suppose neither of you could
discern the difference betwixt one variety and another."

I don't know," said Willina, slowly. " Yes, I think
I could, if the difference were very striking. Could you
classify, Mary ? " She turned to her sister, but Mrs
Clavering had walked to the other end of the terrace,
to exchange greetings with Willina's magnificent
collie dog.

I do wish one of you could help me a little, Willina,
whilst I am here ; but I know this branch of
science has no charms for either of you. Now, Miss
Fanshawe "

Oh, for goodness' sake, don't mention Miss Fan-share

! " replied Miss Clavering, indiscreetly. " We
have had quite enough of her at Hunter's Lodge, with
her airs of superiority. You have quite spoiled her,
Frank."

How  in what way ? " inquired Mr Clavering, a
bright spot on his cheek and a spasm in his voice,

"Why, by always deferring to her opinion, and
asking her advice, and giving her your classification
work. She looks down upon Mary and me as two
females, and nothing more. Oh, I am so thankful she
is not here ! "

Francis hesitated a moment, and then expressed his
surprise that Miss Fanshawe did not seem to be invited
amongst the guests who were coming later on.

Cousin Everard did say something about it ; but I
proposed that Clara Leppell should be asked instead.
Poor girl, she has had a great shock, and really wants
a change."

Um ! I take leave to say that it looks rather
marked to omit Miss Fanshawe, my wife's early
friend," replied Mr Clavering, lowering at his sister.

So it may," replied Willina ; " but the fact is,
Frank, I don't admire Miss Fanshawe, with her cold
reticent ways, so unlike a young girl. Besides, Cousin
Everard has promised that I shall invite whom I
please, and that all the honours of the house-warming
are to be mine."

And you exclude my wife's particular friend, as a
method of evincing your talent for hospitality," returned
Frank, with something very like a sneer.

You can put it that way if you choose' returned
Miss Clavering ; " but I will only just remark that in
my opinion the lady in question cares far less for your
wife than your wife cares for her. Mary is worth a
hundred of her ! "

Although Frank longed to contradict his sister, he
could not well champion Miss Fanshawe at the expense
of his own wife, and so he contented himself by saying,
Just like you women  you are all the same. If anyone
of your sex happens to combine brains with beauty,
there's no end to the detraction she meets with. I
thought you had more sense, Willina."

I do not wish to detract from any merits Miss
Fanshawe may possess," replied Miss Clavering. " She
is handsome, and she is clever ; but I do not like her.
And I will go further, and say that my dislike is much
of the nature of that avowed by the individual who
failed to appreciate the late Dr Fell. I won't inflict
the quotation upon you  it is as proverbial as a
household word."

I know that," returned Francis, sharply. " In its
way, the quotation is as inane a confession of idiocy
as can well be imagined. I don't wonder that you
spare both yourself and me on this point. Let me
advise you, my dear girl ; if you really dislike any
person, or even any thing, be logical enough to hold
some reason, or, being a woman, some show of reason,
for that dislike."

Aggravated by the haut en has air of her brother,
Willina retorted, more frankly perhaps than wisely,

I have a very strong reason for disliking Miss Fan-share
 and, moreover, it grows and grows. If I can
help it, she shall never set foot here."

That is strong language," Mr Clavering replied,
and then he fixed a searching look on his sister.

What could she mean ? Had she divined that his
own relations with Miss Fanshawe were somewhat
exclusive, and his attentions to that lady rather
marked, especially in his position as a newly married
man ? Could it be  and Francis hoped it could be 
merely that unreasoning, undefinable antipathy which,
like a marsh fog, obliterates all sense of discernment,
or at best presents all objects, foul or fair, in an utterly
distorted focus both from the mental and the
physical point of view ?

Francis knew well enough that Willina's nature
was too proud for jealousy  that is, for jealousy of
one who was nothing other than a woman, and a
woman, moreover, who did not come between herself
and any object of affection.

So he dismissed this fancy ; and not trusting
to make more direct inquiry, he intensified his look,
and stood as if in expectation of a ready answer.

Now was Willina's turn for vacillation. She had
her strong reason, verily ; it emanated from a source
to which she was indebted solely to her feminine
sagacity for discovery, but she stood alone, as yet,
with her reason.

The time was not come when she could venture to
say to her brother, " Our guardian is desperately

enamoured of Lillian Fanshawe ; for that cause I
cannot brook her presence here."

But she gave him a reply which was neither doubtful
nor ambiguous. " Were I to speak frankly," she
said, " I should only render you very uncomfortable,
and perhaps very angry also. I am not going to make
any further explanation, so rest content with the
assurance that Miss Fanshawe dislikes me even more
heartily than I dislike her. She has very good cause
to do so ; and if you question this statement, she will,
if she choose  although a woman  furnish you with
a very excellent reason for her state of mind."

Mr Clavering stood aghast. However, his sister's
concluding piece of information was, on the whole,
consolatory. It was evident that something personal,
and not his own Platonic attentions to Miss Fanshawe,
was the active agent which influenced Willina's determination
to exclude that young lady from the hospitalities
of Brydone.

However, when standing on ticklish ground it is
prudent to be quiescent, and so Francis contented
himself by remarking that he would trust to time for
revealing this mystery : in the interim, he felt sure
that his guardian would know what was the proper
thin" to do.

Full well Miss Clavering knew this also. Was it
not on account of the delicate relations which subsisted
between Miss Fanshawe and Cousin Everard
that the latter had so readily fallen in with the suggestion
that it would be more advisable to* invite Clara

Leppell to Brydone than Lillian Fanshawe ! " If there
be any understanding between them' Miss Clavering
argued to herself, " it certainly would not be the thing
to invite Miss Fanshawe here. Cousin Everard is a
great stickler for the proprieties, I know."

You spoke of Clara coming here shortly," said
Frank ; " how on earth is she to travel ? She surely
cannot make so long a journey by herself ? "

That, I think, is nearly arranged," returned
Willina. " Mr Glascott, as you know, was in London
for three days last week  is it not fortunate that he
never suffers from the sea ?  well, he fell in with Mr
or Mrs Braintree. It seems they are thinking of
coming to Jersey for a sea change, and so Cousin
Everard proposed that they should communicate with
the Leppells, and bring Clara with them here."

They are never going to stay here,  the Brain-trees
? They are very well in their way, but I don't
fancy them as inmates."

Don't be alarmed ; Mrs Braintree has secured
rooms at that hotel near Rowley Bay. They will be
here, of course, now and then as visitors," returned
Miss Clavering. " If Mrs Braintree would only not
carry such an atmosphere of Canon's wife about with
her, I should like her better ; but still she is far
superior to the average run of the dignified clergy-woman,
inasmuch as she is perfectly free from their
airs and nonsense."

True. What other people have you  to stay in
the house, I mean ? "

Some old Guernsey friends  the De Saumarez and
a Mr De Brett,  you must remember the families, 
and, by the way, one of the La Touches."

Not that dreadful little cad that was with
his aunt at our wedding ? " exclaimed Francis, in
horror.

No, the brother  the one you met at Pinnacles."

Oh, he's a nice fellow  that's all right. He ought
to have been at our wedding, I believe ; but there was
some bungle about his invitation, Mary heard  in
fact, nobody seemed to know whether he had been
written to or not."

Poor Mrs Leppell fancied she had written to Mr
Stephen La Touche ; but it appears she omitted to do
so. The Colonel and Cousin Everard put it all right,
and Mr Glascott gave him a general invitation to
come here whenever it might please him to do so,"
answered Miss Clavering.

I am glad he will be here ; it will be somebody
with whom I can converse," avowed Mr Clavering.
Stephen La Touche knows a little about geology,
and he will, I daresay, be glad of a scientific companion
in his walks about the island."

Do not reckon upon him too surely," replied Miss
Clavering, piqued, in spite of herself, at her brother's
cool proposition of making a convenience of Mr La
Touche. " I don't think Mr La Touche will be a visitor
in the house, although Cousin Everard has invited
him to stay here during his vacation."

Why does La Touche not come, then ? "

Because he has a reading pupil with whom he is
engaged to make a short tour, and "

Who's the pupil ? " inquired Mr Clavering.

"A son of General Willoughby. This young man's
reading has been arrested on account of ill-health.
The Channel Islands have been recommended to him
for their climate. Under these circumstances, you
see, Mr La Touche could not make any arrangements,
as Mr "Willoughby might elect to reside at Guernsey
or Sark."

But they are coming here, you say ? "

Cousin Everard believes that they will try Jersey
first, and from here make excursions to the neighbouring
islands," said Willina.

Oh ! I should think they will stay at Rowley Bay.
There's plenty of accommodation about that part, and
I daresay this young Willoughby will be pleased to
come here with La Touche for a few days," replied
Mr Clavering.

Very likely. Cousin Everard thought he had
better see what Mr Willoughby was like before sending
him an invitation to stay with us."

Quite right ; an invalid would be an awful nuisance,
and sick lads are worse than women," Francis
declared. " Well, so as I can get hold of La Touche
for some long walks and some exploration work, I
shall be quite content."

I daresay the pupil will turn out to be a very
great acquisition to us all," said Miss Clavering,
decidedly. She was exasperated by the cool selfishness

of her brother, and had no other way of relieving
her feelings but by direct contradiction.

Let us hope so," returned Mr Clavering, without
noticing his sister's tone ; " in that case he can accompany
us in our expeditions, and obtain some further
information on geology. Where on earth has Mary
got to ? Holloa ! Moll, just leave off philandering
with that dog a moment; I want you."

Miss Clavering here seized the opportunity to take
herself out of the way ; the collie dog was disgusted
because his term of petting had come to an end.
Frank Clavering did not like dogs, and, what was
worse, no dog ever seemed to care to approach him.
Sir Walter Scott was not far wrong when he promulgated
the caution, " Beware of the man or woman
whom a dog thoroughly distrusts. At the best, it is a
bad sign of the individual."

During the following week Mr G-lascott's guests
arrived by twos and threes. Mrs Braintree brought
her husband and Clara Leppell, and had taken very
good care of both of them. Sarah Braintree was not
with her parents, being then on a visit in one of the
northern counties.

Mr La Touche and his pupil also arrived in due
course ; and it is satisfactory to state that Mr Clavering
was agreeably disappointed in Mr Willoughby,
the latter turning out to be a fine gentlemanly lad,
fond of boating and of roving over land, and possessing
a highly developed proclivity towards geological
research. He had a cough, and he had somewhat

overgrown his strength ; but, to use his own expression,
" he was safe to be all right jolly soon now ; and
what a thing it was to get some wrinkles in geology
from that scientific swell, Mr Clavering ! "

The two gentlemen put up at the same hotel as the
Braintrees, and on the day following their arrival the
hotel party went together to lunch at Brydone. The
general conversation naturally turned upon the experiences
of the sea.

I think nothing of the crossing between Southampton
and the islands," Mr Glascott had averred.
It may be a little rough near the ' Caskets ' ; but,
dear me ! that is soon over. I cannot understand
people being so afflicted by sea-sickness as so many
are."

If you only knew what agony it is, Cousin Everard,"
said Miss Clavering, " you would not require much explanation.
What do you say, Mr Willoughby ? "

Bather ; and I must add my opinion that the
crowning aggravation of a night of suffering culminates
in the landing at this island."

I quite agree with you," interposed Mrs Braintree ;
the landing was nearly the death of the Canon  the
pier such a height, and the ascending steps so narrow
and slippery."

"Yes," confirmed Stephen La Touche, "and the
whole population seems to think it its duty to fringe
the summit, and gloat over the woe-begone aspect of
the unhappy victims compelled to mount the precipice.
Twelve o'clock in the day, moreover, the time

for this exhibition, and no one looking their best
under the circumstances."

Two human fiends," said Mr Willoughby, " seemed
to appreciate the situation most completely, and were,
in consequence, good enough to remark unfavourably
upon my complexion as I arrived on the brink. I
believe I am indebted for preserving my equilibrium
to a harpist who was immediately behind me in
the file of passengers, and who was good enough to
prod the feet of his instrument into the small of my
back."

That was adding insult to injury," laughed Willina.
" The man saw how powerless you were, and so
made you bear part of his burden without the ceremony
of asking leave. Still, I do wonder that nobody
has ever been blown off the cliff in ascending to the
pier."

So do I : my own manner of progression, though
not pleasant, certainly steadied the ascent," said Mr
Willoughby.

The days that came and went at that time were
very pleasant, and Mr Willoughby proved to be one
of the most accommodating of pupils, inasmuch as he
constantly left his own legitimate bear-leader (as he
styled Mr La Touche) to take long walks, and go
about tapping and hammering the rocks in the sole
company of Mr Clavering.

The latter was delighted with his new recruit. " As
to La Touche," he said, " never was a fellow so changed ;
doesn't seem to care to improve his opportunities, 

VOL. II. T

seems to prefer dawdling among the rocks with my
wife and my sister; sea-air certainly contributes to
make some people very lazy."

I fancy they are making a collection of sea-weeds,"
Mr Willoughby replied, in answer to Mr Clavering's
observations. " They brought in some splendid specimens
yesterday; Mr De Brett knows where all the
rare kinds are to be found."

Certainly few places exist in the wide world
which borders the ocean where apologists can more
fully satisfy their craving for the rare and the lovely
in seaweeds and marine botany than the Channel
Islands.

In the immediate neighbourhood of Brydone was to
be found the jagged Ehodymenia, lifting its crimson
head heavy with the wash of the deep sea  for it is
rarely to be found within tide-mark  together with
the elegant Cladophora, the tufts of which are delicately
dyed with the glaucous hue peculiar to the
British Isles. Nor must be forgotten that wandering
star of the sea  that peculiar sea-weed which floats
from afar, and which bears the sweet wild name of
Dasya.

Whence does it come ? whither does it go ? No
one can tell ; but in the vast dominion of the ocean,
in the most unexpected places, and at the most unexpected
seasons, the Dasya silently floats along, an
alien from its species, but bearing an unmistakable
individuality of its own.

It is a beautiful fancy among the natives of Spanish

Honduras that the Dasya was a sea-nymph, who, for
always quarrelling with her companions, had, as a
punishment, been changed into sea-weed and banished
from her kind, and compelled to wander on the surface
of the deep, ever fresh and ever young, until
that time when the sea shall be no more. Thus it is
that the Dasya may be met with in almost all known
latitudes, according to this old legend of the mariners
of the Spanish main.

Among other enjoyments of the party assembled at
Brydone were frequent picnics, and the bright lovely
weather enabled them to go long distances, and, in
some cases, to remain two or three nights from home.
Thus they introduced themselves to the beautiful
island of Sark, a little nook all ups and downs, with
its hedges covered with honeysuckle, and its face illuminated
with a perpetual sunshiny smile, as if in
derision at the possibility of a railroad being introduced
within its bounds.

They quartered themselves also upon the hospitable
owner of the island of Herm, the bay of which is
famous for its beach, milk-white with the millions of
shells, infinitesimal in size, which time has pounded
into a thick mass, forming a solid and by no means
unpleasant footway at low tide, and presenting a
beautiful line of contrasting colour when viewed from
the sea.

But we must not forget an expedition nearer home,"
said Mr Glascott, one morning, when the routine of
the day was under discussion. " Suppose we walk over

to St Oswin's and see the lovely old ruined church
there. We can lunch early and return comfortably
to dinner."

I should think Canon Braintree could manage
that," said young Willoughby, who had strolled up to
Brydone from the hotel. " He is a nice old gentleman,
and I'll give him an arm. Do you know, I did not
like Mrs Braintree at first ; but now I see more of her,
I am inclined to change my opinion. She is rather
managing in manner, but I feel sure she is very kindhearted."


Some few assented to this, but Willina Clavering
was silent. Had she not overheard Mrs Braintree
praising up Miss Fanshawe in the most emphatic
manner to Mr Glascott only the evening before ?

These parsons' wives are as worldly as their neighbours,"
Willina said to herself, in her haste. " Mrs
Braintree wants to serve her cloth, and I daresay she
thinks it a Christian duty to provide for a clergyman's
daughter. Perhaps it is ; but I hope she will carry
her charity further, and refrain from turning me out
of Brydone till I have a home of my own."

Miss Clavering was partly right and partly wrong
in this reflection. Mrs Braintree certainly wished to
serve Miss Fanshawe, but she was equally anxious to
further Miss Clavering's prospects, and for this reason
the Canon's wife "played gooseberry," and enacted
deaf adder " in the interests of her hostess and Mr
Stephen La Touche with the most persevering assiduity.
Mrs Braintree had made her own discoveries ;

but, like a sensible woman, she did not spoil sport by
making indiscreet remarks, or by appearing to see and
know what she was not intended to see and know.

It would be well for the comfort of society at large
if Mrs Braintree were more universally imitated in
this particular. Many a growing affection is nipped
in the bud through the indiscretion of some of society's
idiots, who are lacking in savoir taire as well as in
savoir faire.

The day is winsome, and Miss Clavering wisely
determines to enjoy it and put Lillian Fanshawe out
of her mind. Is it not her duty to make all things as
alluring to the owner of Brydone as possible ? And
so the guests assembled without trouble to Mr Glascott,
and they set out by the land route towards the fisher
village of St Oswin.

The church dedicated to St Oswin was a small
edifice, built on a cliff nearly overhanging the seashore.
So low was the cliff, that at the times of very
high tide the little church and its encircling sea-wall
often appeared to be entirely surrounded by the
waves.

Huge gaps were apparent in the whole structure of
the building, black, jagged, and hoary. Some ivy
clung to the tottering, crumbling walls, which seemed
to drag down the whole edifice, until it bade fair to
fall into the midst of the masses of fern with which
the burial-ground was literally choked.

A noble pall would be this wealth of the fern
Osmunda Royal,  that queenly fairy cryptogamia,

which adheres so persistently to the place of its birth
that it frequently refuses to exist when carried beyond
the reach of the particles of ocean spray from which it
draws its strength and its life.

Here, over and around, and through the cracks of the
dilapidated wall, which by a few yards only separated
the churchyard from the sea-line, this splendid fern
protruded itself in every stage of beauty  now bowing
its stately head seaward, as if in waiting for the spray,
anon waving and tossing itself backwards in all the
ineffable glory of the light.

The graves of poor humanity, which time and forgetfulness
had alike pressed deeply into the mould, were
thus sprinkled by showers of water diamonds ; whilst
the soft mantle of mother-earth heaped its rich texture
and warm colour alike upon the nothingness of the
dead, and the root and stem of the moving, living
frond.

Here was the repetition of the old story, life in
death and death in life ! In all parts and places of
the earth time chants the same requiem, and faithful
nature mutely rehearses the strain.

The ivy of the northern clime, and the rich parasite
vine of some of the islands of the tropical seas, both
thrive, and eventually bring destruction, upon the
temples raised by man.

The latter, as it grows and acquires strength, inserts
its tendrils till they penetrate the fibres of the stone,
and thus imperceptibly grinds its way, till, in course
of time, the masonry has crumbled to dust, and leaves

nothing but masses of bright foliage and trailing
spandrils, raising themselves in tiers of coronals, and
playing with the sunbeams upon the decay and ruin
beneath them. The ivy, though it in a measure protects
the stone, at the same time fosters damp, which
permeates and turns to mould, and in the end is a
most active agent in the destruction of what it was
first planted to preserve. Life in death, and death in
life!

Curiously enough, this little church, fast crumbling
to decay, held within its walls, deep in the interior of
the earth, a tiny chapel. This chapel was supported
by two elaborately carved pillars, and all the subjects
of the handicraft were figures allegorical of mourning
and death.

The altar, stripped long, long ago of its original
adornments, was plain in construction, and, owing
probably to its being of marble, its solidity was very
slightly impaired by time and neglect. There were
also the remains of a very curious bronze lamp, highly
wrought, and inlaid with delicate lines of beaten gold.
This had evidently been surmounted by figurative
ornaments, there being signs of chasing rudely torn
away, to be carried off doubtlessly by the ruthless
hand of devastation. The brown dust, thick, and
made frowsy by the adhesive sticky strands of the
spider's web, threw the pall of disuse over it, and overall
around.

Many groups of red fungi were scattered in irregular
patches upon the broken steps of the altar : it would

almost seem as if the tears of those who had last wept
there had turned to specks of blood. Who can tell ?

There are living souls  God knows !  whose tears,
falling from the eyes, are but the spray of the waters
of agony which lie deep in the red caverns of the
heart's life-blood.

We are well assured, in treating of those who have
already passed out of life, that the majority of them
have, at some time or other of their existence, drunk
deep of the bitter waters of sorrow : let us then touch
very kindly and very reverently on the sufferings of
the dead.

A tomb stood in a corner : its size was so large that
it filled more than half of the chapel. It was raised
on three stone steps, but bore no inscription save the
date a.d. 1470, and the single word, " Misericordia."
This was cut on a lozenge pendant, on the slab which
formed the eastern side of the tomb.

The Latin cross surmounted the whole, and seemed
to appeal, in the name of the dear Christ of sorrow, to
the sympathies of the living, in remembrance of, perchance,
the broken heart that was at rest beneath it.

This chapel and tomb had been built up for a length
of years by a wall of mud and sand. The flight of
steps which had led down to it had been concealed by
masonry, and there is no knowing how long, and for
what purpose, this underground sanctuary had been
shut off from the ken of man. No outlet from the
place existed ; and it had been at length assumed that
the tomb was the sepulchre of the founder, who, being

perhaps the last of his race, had desired to lie buried
deep beneath the walls which his generosity had
reared, and so pass away from human remembrance.
An accident, some thirty years previous to the visit of
the Brydone party, had revealed this underground
chapel.

They were all examining the place with the greatest
interest, and Mr Clavering had already begun to
sketch the only window, which was a perfect Gothic
in form, and high up in the wall, when the visitors
were startled by the loud slamming of the outer door
of the church. This was immediately followed by the
sound of steps running round outside the building.
The upper panes of the window were just on a level
with the path, and Frank clearly descried feet and the
heavy boots of wayfaring men as the sound passed by.
At the same time the old fisherman who attended with
the keys exclaimed 

By golly ! Mr Glascott, sir  those two beggar chaps
that we met have followed us here, and have shut
us in ! "

But, Dobree, you surely never left the keys in the
porch-door ? "

I did, sir ; and here we are for many hours, sure ! "

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

3 0112 049092197

'i)

:U'

'ft.:.;

m:,-

'j*-:-

!,:-:-:ii'.

OF Thou

N Diversity

or Ill Noisy.

3

A NOVEL

BY

MARY Lessee

(MARIA SOLTERA)

AUTHOR OF ' A LADY'S RIDE ACROSS SPANISH HONDURAS '

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXVIII

CONTENTS OF THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAP. PAGE

I. CLOSE PRISON, 1

II. DELIVERANCE, 25

III. POT-pourra, 47

IV. STEPHEN AND Willing, . 69
V. FATHER AND SONS, . 92

VI. SHARP WORK, 117

VII. A FURNISHED HOUSE LET, . . . .139

VIII. "VIVENT LES FEMMES POUR LES RUSES d'aMOUR," 160

IX. A PROPOS DES DIAMANTS, 192

X. THE SORROW OF THE NIGHT, 218

XI. DOWN WIND, DOWN TIDE, 243

Nil A STEP 'tWIXT LIFE AND DEATH, . . . 262

XIII. THE JOY OP THE MORNING, 286

XIV. AN OLD man's REVENGE, 308

CHAPTEE I.

CLOSE PRISON.

It did not take the party many minutes to convince
themselves of the truth of Dobree's assertion. The
porch door was found on examination to be fast
locked, and, worse still, the key had evidently been
withdrawn.

The presumption held more than ever that the
beggar-men had either in frolic or from spite played
this uncomfortable trick upon the visitors. Mr
Clavering's testimony that the copper he had given to
one of them in answer to his appeal for relief had
been thrown contemptuously on the ground, served to
strengthen the opinion that ill-feeling, rather than
frolic, had prompted the men to behave in this
manner. Mr Clavering further declared that he had
remarked these persons dodging among the rocks for

VOL. III. A

some time, but they suddenly disappeared ; and his
mind being taken up with other matters, caused him
as quickly to forget all about them.

It must be allowed that the situation was embarrassing
enough, the place being so lonely ; and though
there was no legend current which might deter timid
persons from passing St Oswin's Church at dusk, still
no one greatly cared to frequent that neighbourhood
at nightfall. At high tide it was really dangerous todo
so, as the water not unfrequently leapt over the
wall which bounded the churchyard, and entered by
the numerous crevices by which this was intersected ;
therefore wayfarers kept well inland, even in the daytime,
when passing St Oswin's in the season of high
tides.

The windows of this little edifice were small and of
lanceolate shape, and, for the sake of the rare old
stained glass which they contained, had been protected
from without by strong wire-netting. The church had,
on occasions, served as a temporary shelter for smugglers
; in consequence of this, the masonry round the
stout oak-door had been repaired, and a strong lock supplied
to the door itself. The stone seats on either side
of the porch were rendered, by these means, the only
accommodation that St Oswin had to offer to chance
visitors who might approach the church without the
attendance of its appointed guardian, Daniel Dobree.

This beautiful day may perhaps induce some
artist or visitor to penetrate as far as St Oswin's,"
said Mr Glascott, in a cheery tone. "We can't be

detained very long, for your old woman will be missing
you shortly  eh, Dobree ? "

She would do that an' she were at home," responded
the man ; " but her daughter's ailing a long time
now, and my missus has gone over t'other side of the
island looking after she  that's what my old woman's
about. There is a chance that neighbour Bonny
may come along for a pipe with me ; that would be
nigh seven o'clock. We always turn in for good at
eight, sir."

"And it is not quite four o'clock now," said Mrs
Braintree,, looking at her watch. " Is it possible that
there is no way of getting out ? "

No, ma'am ; you see the windows are wired to preserve
the stained glass, which is very rare, they say.
That's the Virgin Mary in a yellow bonnet, with a
large blue bow at the side," continued Dobree, falling
into his habit of guide-talk. " A Mr Goitt, who is an
epicure in stained glass, he had it done, and paid for
it too ; but no one could not get out at these
windows, anyhow  too narrow in the build."

Then, as an inspiration struck him, Dobree continued,
" Some of these gentlemen might scramble up
and holler."

They did scramble up, and they did halloo, but all
to no purpose ; all the response was the low moaning
of the distant tide, now very near the turn.

At any rate," Mr Clavering said, " if we do not
return by dinner-time the servants at Brydone will
become anxious, and send off to seek us."

They may do so," replied Mr Glascott ; " but they
will wait for an hour or two first. Does any one of
them distinctly understand where we were going, orin
what direction ? "

This question could not be answered very satisfactorily.
Miss Clavering had ordered dinner for seven
o'clock early in the day, and had apprised the butler
that no one would be at home after luncheon, as
all were going for a very long walk. She had also
said that it was possible they might be a few minutes
late ; but she could not remember if she had mentioned
the destination of the excursionists  she rather
thought that she had not done so.

Dobree here caught up the parable, and by way of
making things more comfortable, was good enough to
remind Mr Glascott that the moon would not be up
till past ten o'clock.

This information caused a renewal on all sides of
the attempt to get out. Mr Willoughby tried, by
main force, to wrench off the lock of the door ; Mr La
Touche, with the aid of Mr Clavering, again scrambled
up to the sill of a window and shouted lustily ; the
ladies ran hither and thither, seeking some hitherto
undiscovered outlet, but all in vain.

The means that had been taken to secure the building
from outside invaders proved sufficiently effective
to prevent these visitors from issuing forth. Their
united efforts only produced an angry frightened
screech from a passing sea-bird, which flapped its
wings and flew round in circles, as if delighted to show

fight. The disturbance of cobwebs and the fall of
mortar, with sundry weird sounds from crumbling
wood, intermingled with the crash of loosened tiles,
were the only results of a simultaneous determined
effort to break prison and get free.

Meanwhile the tide moaned in the far distance, and
the practised ear of Dobree discerned that it had
passed the point of its ebb and was now flowing landwards.
He supplemented this information with the
prognostication that it would not much surprise him
if a furious storm were to arise a few hours later ; he
did not like the sound of the sea, he said, " and the
wind is "

Like ourselves, in the wrong quarter," cut in Mr
La Touche, who was not going to allow the old fisherman
to pile on the agony. " I really think we must
trust to being missed," he continued, turning to Mrs
Braintree. " I see there are one or two stone seats
let into the wall which are available for a resting-place
for you and Mr Braintree, and we must manage
something for the rest of the ladies."

The only other place was the worn steps of the"
altar  everything wooden had been cleared away.
Nothing could be more desolate, more saddening, than
the appearance of all around ; truly the glory had long
departed hence.

There was still plenty of light, and Mr Clavering,
philosophically accepting the inevitable, descended the
steps into the underground chapel, there to complete
his sketch. He felt sure that people from Brydone

would seek them eventually, and, in the meantime, he
would take advantage of the opportunity and faithfully
transmit to paper the salient points of this wonderful
subterranean building. His wife and sister flitted hither
and thither, and did their best to console Mrs Braintree,
who was naturally very solicitous about her husband.
Mr Glascott grew rapidly uneasy, and young Mr
Willoughby objurgated the " genus " tramp in language
which was far more forcible than decorous, and Mr
La Touche was not far behind him in the use of expletives.
Meanwhile the tide, still distant, moaned
lugubriously, and, as the evening set in, with the departure
of the sun came a chill, which literally entered
to the marrow of the bones. Before it became quite
dark a dead set had again been made by the combined
masculine strength against the door, but all was futile.
The only hope of the prisoners lay in rescue from without
; and, as Daniel Dobree took care to remind them,
they must not expect much aid until the moon had
well risen.

We shall see what my friend Bonamy will do,"
said Dobree to Mr Glascott ; " he may come along, and
he may not  all depends on the weather. It's ars a
mile he has got to cover, he has ; and when he do come,
he may miss me, in course, but he may not think of
looking for the great key. If he don't think of
that "

Well, what will he do ? "

He'll go on to the ' Sea Mew,' thinking I may begone
down there : if he don't find me, he'll just take a

whiff and go back home. It all depends whether
Bonamy happens to miss the key : if he do, then he'll
come down here ; if he don't, well, he may think that
I have gone after the missus in a hurry,  at any rate,
he won't think of coming here."

This consolatory information was probably quite
correct, and it added very much to the disquietude
of the party, especially as Canon Braintree was evidently
suffering, and his wife was undergoing very
much greater anxiety on his account than on her
own.

There was not so much as a greatcoat or a wrapping-shawl
among them, and contact with the cold hard
stones was not exactly fitting for a very elderly man
already in delicate health.

Surely the servants at Brydone will take alarm,"
Mr La Touche remarked to Francis Clavering. " When
time goes on and we don't appear, they must think
that something is wrong."

I don't know," Francis made answer ; " they may
imagine that we are all drowned, or, worse still, swallowed
up in a quicksand. There are a good many
quicksands about these parts, but they shift their
places continually. Nobody, however, ventures to approach
St Oswin's by the cliffs even at low tide, as
the path is very dangerous in daylight as well as at
dusk. So, if the Brydone household once learn that
we were bound for this church, they will abandon all
speculation and come straight here by the inland
road. One comfort ; I have managed to complete my

sketch. What on earth is that ? " inquired Mr Clavering,
looking upwards.

Some heavy rain was now falling, and large drops
had begun to drip through a rent in the roof.

Don't stand there, Mary," Mr Clavering said to his
wife, as the tiling upon which they stood was beginning
to be moistened. " You look as white as a sheet;
just keep out of the damp, will you, and don't make
matters worse by catching cold."

Mrs Clavering moved away ; but as the rain descended
more rapidly, it soon became impossible to find a dry
spot whereunto she might betake herself.

The exhortation to avoid taking cold was, under the
circumstances, somewhat superfluous  at least it appeared
so to Mr La Touche, who was standing near.

The wind had become boisterous, and the hollow
moan of the sea had risen to a roar. Presently a flash
of lightning darted past, and a cloud, black as ink,
rolled over against the church : a severe thunder-storm
was imminent.

Dobree, who was delighted at the coming fulfilment
of his prediction, now counselled that the majority of
the party should descend the flight of steps which led
to the underground chapel. He suggested that they
should seat themselves upon the steps of the tomb,
whilst two of their number should watch above, ready
to respond to any sounds that might be suggestive of
deliverance.

This advice was good, as the rain was coming
through the shattered roof in showers, and the holes

between the tidings of the ground-floor were thus converted
into standing receptacles for water. It was
miserable enough below ; but there they would be dry
and sheltered from the storm, and the judicious use
of some lucifer-matches, which the gentlemen happened
to have brought for the convenience of smoking,
would occasionally light up the scene when utter
darkness should fall around.

Then you think there is no chance of our being
rescued ? " said Francis Clavering to Dobree, as a
general move was made to go below.

"There's no use in shirking the matter, sir," was
the fisherman's reply ; " the storm's against us, and sois
the moon  we must trust to early morning now."

Frank was silent ; but he could not help blaming
his sister, in his heart, for not leaving word as to their
destination. Then he thought of Lillian Fanshawe;
how wisely she would have arranged matters ! She
would have foreseen probable storm and the possibility
of danger by quicksand, and, at any rate, she would
never have left the house without apprising those in
charge of the direction of the expedition, mused Mr
Clavering.

Strange to say, very much the same kind of opinion
was floating through the mind of Mr Glascott. They
were but men after all, and they wanted their dinners ;
in this case it was opportune to have a feminine
human being to grumble at. Keeping Miss Fanshawe
in the background, each of these gentlemen expressed
both regret and surprise that Willina had not informed

Mr Willettt, the butler, that they were going
to St Oswin's. " Girls are so heedless," avowed Miss
Clavering's brother, sharply.

They be," responded Dobree ; " people should
never leave the homestead without leaving word
where they are a-going to, especially near the sea, 
it's a tempting of Providence, I call it." This speaker
wanted his tea.

"It is bad enough for us young people," Stephen
La Touche said, after he had guided Miss Clavering
down the broken and steep steps ; " but I am really
very apprehensive about Mr Braintree, poor old
gentleman : he has borne up most uncomplainingly,
but this must tell upon him."

I am anxious about my guardian," Miss Clavering
said. " He speaks cheerfully, and he won't give-in
an inch ; but I do wish I had told Willettt distinctly
where we were going."

Mr Glascott or some of us might have done so,"
was Stephen's reply ; " don't you trouble about that.
I don't care for myself, but I am concerned for the
ladies and the Canon. Oh, that I could get the thrashing
of those rascals who played us this scurvy trick !
I wonder what tempted them to behave in this extraordinary
manner ? It is very strange."

I think," she replied, timidly, " it is rather my
brother's fault. These beggars asked for relief, and
though Frank gave them something, he spoke very
harshly, and I fear he threatened to commit them as
vagrants. I did not hear distinctly what he said, but

he certainly ordered them away in a very imperious
manner."

There was something so like a friendly confidence
in her tone, as this communication was made, that
Stephen quivered with delight ; but he only said 

We were all wandering here and there, so that
I hardly saw these men. It seems they asked Mr
Glascott for charity, and he immediately relieved
them."

Yes ; and this is what irritated Frank. He came
up through some rocks a little behind the rest, and
had seen my guardian hand them a donation : he,
however, gave them a copper for the sake of getting
rid of them. One of them threw it on the sand,
and then my brother used very strong language : they
followed us here, and, I daresay, the temptation of
seeing the key left in the door outside, prompted them
to revenge themselves in this manner."

So we have to thank Mr Clavering and old Dobree
for the whole proceeding," said Mr La Touche, with an
air of great exultation. He was deeply in love, and
he did not want his dinner or his tea ; but he was
indignant that the cause of their detention should be
laid to Willina's account, and he experienced a wild
delight as he heard how Francis had conducted himself
with the beggars. On the whole, he began to
exculpate the latter; for himself, he really was very
much obliged to them.

Not a word had, as yet, been uttered in complaint
as to the absence of food, or the impossibility of

obtaining any for some hours to come. Every one had
borne up bravely,  only old Dobree lifted up his voice
in lamentation for his tea and his beloved pipe. As
self-control was the rule, he said little about the meal,
but, like his fellow-captives, probably, he thought the
more, and took it out in longing for a smoke.

They had all gone below, with the exception of old
Dobree and Francis Clavering. These two had volunteered
to take the first watch, seating themselves upon
the stone bench which the Brain tree couple had vacated.
The seats were narrow, and decidedly not comfortable ;
but the spot was dry and thoroughly well out of the
range of the blast, which at intervals thrust itself in a
compressed volume beneath the outer door.

After a preliminary snarl, Mr Dobree settled himself,
leaning against the wall with every outward and
visible sign of composing himself to sleep. Mr
Clavering pulled his hat over his eyes, stuck his heels
firmly on the tiles, and set to work thinking of Miss
Lillian Fanshawe.

Did it strike him that by doing so he was guilty of
disloyalty to the fair creature whom, but a few weeks
agone, he had vowed to love and cherish unto the end
of life ?  did it ever occur to him that sin lurked under
cover of his admiration for the woman of the stronger
brain and more determined will ? No ; had Francis
Clavering been compelled to define his feelings on this
point, he would have avowed that he held, not only a
dual preference, but a distinctly dual perception in
dealing with each preference.

The mind of Miss Fanshawe, he would have declared,
was infinitely superior to that possessed by
nine-tenths of her sex ; and this, united with so many
personal attractions, must ever command the interest
of those to whom the possession of intellect must of
necessity form a large component part in the formation
of a friendship.

Thus it was both in a general as well as in a particular
sense that Francis considered it to be allowable
that he should worship intellect in the person of
Miss Fanshawe, and he was quite as much in his right
to pay homage to youth and beauty. Besides, Lillian
was so admirably cautious.

Here was his illusion : why and for what reason
did he conclude that Miss Fanshawe was distinguished
for possessing caution as regarded himself ?

There could be only one answer to this : he had
instinctively discovered that Miss Fanshawe held him
in a regard which went far beyond the bounds prescribed
by mere friendship ; but he was in illusion,
nevertheless, for he would neither admit nor deny
the fact.

As to his wife, there was small need of either
defining or analysing his feelings. He had married
her, and that fact was, or should be, sufficient to proclaim
that she came up to his very high standard of
female qualifications. She was lovely in person, and
was by no means wanting in intelligence, and  what
was far better  in the appreciation of his own great
knowledge and intellectual renown.

For the rest, the possible mother of a large family
would not have much leisure for literary pursuits ; and
Mary was not one who would allow household duties
to give way, in so far as she herself was concerned, to
art or learning, of whatever kind these might be.

Far from undervaluing either, she would be satisfied
to leave the prosecution of them to other people ; and
what more natural than that her own early friend
should come to be as a sister in their household
circle, and be looked up to as a Mentor, graced with
every feminine charm, but still a Mentor endowed
with the brain of a man, and combining the strength
of the battle - axe with the nicest acumen of the
polished steel needle.

The appellative " sister " proved rather a stumbling-block
in the course of Mr Clavering's ruminations.

Suddenly there came upon him the remembrance of
the conversation he had lately held with Willina,
during which the latter had frankly avowed that she
had no liking for Miss Fanshawe. This, taken by
itself, would not have affected Francis in any great
degree. He would probably have attributed his
sister's dislike to Lillian as the outcome of some
feminine jealousy or misunderstanding, which might
or which might not right itself as time went by. At
any rate, this was a matter which it would be beneath
his dignity to recognise  so long, that is to say, as
Miss Fanshawe was neither molested nor offended.
Anything which might cause that lady annoyance
would necessarily call for his interference, if happening

beneath his roof or at the instance of his
relative.

Pursuing the course of his reflections, Mr Clavering
was inclined to view the growing affection which was
fast springing up between his wife and his sister as by
no means so desirable a thing as at the first blush it
might be supposed to be.

It did away, as it were, entirely with the necessity
of Miss Fanshawe ; and Willina, clear, high-minded,
and practical, was quite as much one upon whom
Mary could rely as the former had been, or ever could
be in the time to come.

The accident of his marriage had brought with it
the rights of relationship. Failing Mr Glascott, his
home must of necessity be that of his sister until she
might marry, and, of course, a twofold bond would be
inaugurated if Mary and Willina preserved a sincere
regard each one for the other.

This in a good measure would unavoidably exclude
Miss Fanshawe, and thus his own enjoyment of her
society would be very sensibly curtailed. The only
comfort was that the sea lay between Brydone and
his home at Tring, a chasm that his sister would not
often care to cross, and it would be his business to
desire that Miss Fanshawe should be amons their
first visitors when they were settled in their country
place.

Had he not a large case of most valuable geological
specimens waiting for arrangement, and had he not
concluded to delay the unpacking of this until he

could secure reliable and, above all things, constant
assistance in the classification of the same ?

The sea by this time had become very rough, and
the unfortunate persons in their underground refuge
could feel it dashing against the rocks and beating the
ground as it advanced towards the shore.

There were voices and shrieks all around, but they
were those of the winds and the blast. The storm
had now risen to fury, and what was mostly to be
apprehended was that the waves might dash over the
churchyard wall. They remembered well that on the
occasion of very high tides St Oswin's was said to
appear, from a distance, to be entirely surrounded by
the sea.

It might be safe enough now  hitherto it had been
safe; the spray had least over the churchyard wall,
and had penetrated through the rifts of its stones.
But who could tell ? The waves might on this wild
night take further licence, and rush upon the building
itself ! If so, would the structure, already advancing
to decay, be able to withstand the shock ?

These thoughts, in spite of every effort to suppress
them, obtruded themselves into the minds of each one
of the party, who now, weary and faint, could scarcely
help giving way to the most dreary forebodings. Still
no complaint escaped their lips. They expressed their
thankfulness that the crypt kept them dry, and all
was said in this. Mr Glascott grieved mostly on
account of the sufferers being his guests, and that
through him, although unwittingly, these discomforts

had fallen upon them. Physically speaking, he was
as buoyant as the youngest person there.

Mrs Braintree had discovered a box of cough-lozenges
in the pocket of her husband's coat. These were warm
and pungent, so she crammed three or four of them
into his mouth, and then slipping the mantle off her
own shoulders, she transferred it to those of the Canon,
and finally drawing his head down to her lap, she
succeeded for a short time in hushing him into forgetfulness.


Mr Clavering had left Dobree asleep, and came
down to request Mr Willoughby to take his place asa
watcher in the church above.

Willina sat beside her cousin, with Stephen La
Touche on the step immediately below them. Mr De
Brett took care of Mrs Clavering and his own young
sister, whilst Francis paced up and down like a caged
lion, and audibly consigned old Dobree to the infernal
gods for leaving the key in the door at all. His
inmost thoughts even carried him so far as to opine
that if Miss Fanshawe had been of this party, and had
seen the tramps, her wisdom would have prevented
the possibility of this contretemps. She would have
taken care that Mr Daniel Dobree should not leave
the course open to a surprise.

As it was, there they were, and there they were
likely to remain, at least until morning broke.

Mr Glascott after a time rose to stretch himself,
and then went to join the watchers above. Mr
La Touche immediately changed his position, sidled

VOL. III. B

close up to Miss Clavering, and inquired if she felt
cold.

"Yes, I do' she replied ; "I think I would like to
walk about a little, for my feet are like ice. Only it
is so dark, and the floor is very uneven also."

No, don't do that, Miss Clavering," Stephen replied,
" here is a far more effectual way of getting warm."
And before she could prevent him, the young man had
wrapped his velvet shooting-jacket round her feet in a
second of time.

I cannot permit you to do this," Willina said, imploringly.
" Should any one strike a lucifer-match
now, and chance to see you, they would think that you
were mad. Do put on your coat,  you will be chilled
to death if you do not."

There is no chance of that," said Stephen, hardily,
at the same time giving the garment an extra turn,
and thus enveloping Miss Clavering so completely
about the feet, that it would be difficult for her to
rise up. " I have been seeking an opportunity of
speaking to you," he continued, *' but somehow I have
never been able to find you alone. Now I really have
captured you, and I want to tell you something.
Willina ! you surely must understand me ; it is the
old, old story."

Our acquaintance has been so short," she replied,
in a very agitated tone. " I will not pretend to misunderstand
you ; but are you wise in rehearsing the
old story to me ?  or, perhaps, I should rather say, am
I wise in listening to you ? "

Yes, yes ! you are most wise," the young man
answered passionately, " if you listen approvingly ; for
then you will make the happiness of a life. Now,
hear my version of the old, old story : I loved you
from the first instant that I saw you  I have loved
you ever since ; more, I love you at this moment more
deeply than ever, and I only ask a little love in return.
Can you  will you promise me that ? "

Wliat she said, and how she said it, neither the one
nor the other ever distinctly knew. It is only certain
that, after the lapse of a few minutes, Willina entreated
her lover not to wring her feet quite so hard. Inmost
situations it would have been her hands that
should have suffered from that strong masculine grip,
a grip which combined thankfulness with a subdued
exultation,  but under the circumstances, everything
being out of gear, it was but natural that Stephen
should bestow his hearty acknowledgments upon the
pedal extremities which lay so close to his hand.

Get up  there's a good fellow," Miss Clavering
said quickly, after the lapse of a few moments ;
somebody is lighting a match. Here's your coat,"
and with a single movement Miss Clavering had got
rid of that garment, and tumbled against her brother,
at the foot of the steps leading to the church.

Oh ! is it you ? " exclaimed Francis, as he recognised
WiUina by the feeble light. " I am afraid I
nearly threw you down ; it's as dark as pitch  actually
obliged to strike a match to find these steps. I
suppose you were coming up for a stretch ? "

Yes ; I am so chilly, it is quite necessary to walk
about a little."

Come up with me, then. Just hark at the sea ! it
must be surely close to the churchyard wall. Fortunately
it is getting lighter,  that's owing to the
moon. Who's that behind us ? "

Only Mr La Touche," Miss Clavering replied, in
the most matter-of-fact manner in the world. " I
suppose he wants to have a look at the moon ; it is
lighter up here."

Mr Willoughby had by this time descried the
Claverings, and advanced to meet them. " So glad
you have dug yourselves out of that vault," the young
man said ; " the rain has very nearly stopped I think.
Now, I have got one idea "

Only one ! " said Miss Clavering, laughing. " Do
tell us what it is ? "

I call your conduct mean, Miss Clavering  yes,
mean  to quench my notions of affecting a deliverance
by a snub in the dark  a snub which, under the circumstances,
is more cruel than a stab."

Never mind, Willoughby," said Mr La Touche,
putting himself en evidence ; " you might be worse
off. Did you never hear of the two friends who were
on such exceedingly intimate terms, that one of them
Roasted their affection was so great that they only possessed
one idea between them."

Charming idiots ! " broke in Francis. " But Willoughby,
if your cogitations have led to some scheme
that may rid us of this infernal fix, do let us

have it. I will willingly assist any practicable undertakings."


You see that hole up there ? No, you can't, till I
strike a light. The hole is just above the young pool
of water at our feet, and it is not so far from the arch
above that window to the right."

Yes. Well ? "

It is an accepted fact," continued the lad, " that
where the head can get through, the rest of the body
can follow, more or less uncomfortably. My idea 
my sole idea. Miss Clavering  has consequently been
to perforate or enlarge that opening by means of my
own carcase. Now, I think my worthy tutor might
give me a lift to the window-sill ; and as there is room
for two to stand thereon, he might further let me place
my feet on his shoulders."

Anything more ? " ejaculates Mr La Touche.

I am coming to that. Having drawn breath, and
both keeping steady, I think I could spring from the
high elevation of the shoulders of Mr La Touche, get
hold of one of those rafters, and so work my way
out."

But the rafters, George, may be rotten or out of
place, and you would come down head foremost, and
so add to our troubles and your own. Your plan is a
good one were the materials of the roof to be depended
upon," Mr La Touche objected.

At any rate," said Mr Clavering, " the roof is low,
comparatively speaking, and the performance suggested
is feasible to a good climber. It would be better to

rouse up that efficient guide there ; he'll know all
about the condition of the roof. The philanthropist
who preserved the stained glass might possibly have
extended some repairing to the upper part ; but the
entrance of so much rain does not, to my mind, favour
the surmise."

The rain is nearly over now," said Willina, " and
the light has become stronger, even during the few
minutes we have been standing here  that's a
comfort."

So it has," replied her brother. " I think I will
go and bring my wife up here ; this is less dreary than
sitting absolutely in the dark."

Young Willoughby went forward to 'shake up
Daniel Dobree, and Stephen gave his arm to Willina,
and walked with her to and fro trying to get warm.
The wind and the rain had certainly abated ; but the
roar of the sea was terrific, being intensified at intervals
by that swishing sound which is like a prolonged
and cruel hiss. The chill of that weird hour which
precedes the dawn was now upon all, pervading every
nook, and saddening the spirits of the already depressed
captives in St Os win's ruined church.

Save Stephen La Touche. Joy was in every movement,
in every feature, almost in the wave of his hair.
The tone of his voice proclaimed that the " sad hour "
had no terrors for him ; his step was so elastic that his
companion had to place a restraining pull on his arm.

You have made me so happy," he said, interpreting
the tug,  " so happy, dear, that I know nothing of time

or space, or anything else, except that you are leaning
upon me as my betrothed wife. Ought I not to rejoice
? Ought I not to love this place for evermore,
seeing that it is here I have won my crown ? "

'' And so have I," she replied. " But, Stephen !
ours is a sorry troth-plight, pledged on the broken
steps of an unknown tomb, buried in a vault of a
ruined church,  disquietude, if not actual danger, all
around us : it is not a happy omen."

Never fear, Willina ; some time hence we shall
look back upon this and smile : and remember the
lone sepulchre still bears the Christian sign  the sign
which in the end brings victory."

Yes," she replied ; " but the victory is in the end,
and usually follows much suffering."

"You are hipped and out of tune to-night, dear
love, and no wonder," he replied, as he drew her
closer to him. " Do not talk about the future just
now ; come and let us hear what Dobree has to say
about Willoughby's plan of rescue."

They did hear it. Mr Dobree in short and decisive
language characterised it as that foolhardy that he
did not know how to express his surprise at the
graciousness " of even thinking of such a thing.
Them rafters is all loose, and mostly half powder,"
he remarked, " and it's wellnigh a miracle that the
whole has not come down in a lump on our heads
during the storm. That's what I have been expecting
of," continued he.

"As you have been fast asleep for hours, I can't

understand what you mean by your expectations,"
retorted young Mr Willoughby, who was rather nettled
at his propositions being so completely routed.
What are we to do, then ? "

All as you has to do is to wait patiently, and at
early morning holler."

"But we have hollered, my good man," persisted
the hopeful pupil ; " we hollered like mad just before
dusk."

You'll have a better chance of being heard in the
early morning, I tell you," snapped Dobree; "the
wreckers will be soon astir after such a storm as we
had last night, and the tide will be low after four
o'clock."

The wreckers ! Who are they ? "

CHAPTEE II,

DELIVERANCE.

It was explained to Mr Willoughby that in the
Channel Islands seaweed is very extensively used
for manuring the land. A violent storm is therefore
by no means an unwelcome occurrence in these regions,
because after rough weather quantities of this fertilise
are hurled to shore, and the diligent farmer takes the
earliest opportunity to collect the treasures which the
waters may have cast up.

It is an interesting and in some respects a picturesque
sight, at certain seasons, to see a party of
wreckers grouped on the shore, with their carts and
horses in attendance, busy raking the wrack or drachms
this sea-weed is called. Their tools are long iron
or wooden rakes, and with these the leathery strong-smelling
sea-tang is gathered in. Change the locale,
and one is reminded of a hatfield. The talking and
laughing and flirtation go on pretty much the same
as in the meadow-land.

The sun-bonnet and the sea-bonnet are tilted in thf

same coquettish style to preserve the complexion ; and
when work is over, and the carts are driven away top-heavy
with the harvest, the same amount of feasting
and glorification ensues upon the storing-in of the
wrack as usually follows upon the safe gathering-in of
the yellow corn or hay.

As the wrack dries, its original unpleasant odour is
concentrated and intensified. Let the unwary traveller
but hint this, however, and he will be at once put
down with the information that the wrack emits the
healthiest scent in the world. There will be much
mention of iodine ; and the assertion that the vigour
and fine personal appearance of the islanders is due to
the constant sniffing of this sea-weed will be insisted
upon with all the courage of conviction.

A little more conversation on this subject ensues.
Meanwhile the dark hour fairly gives place to the
dawn  to that glimmering, modest light which trembles
as it rises, and to the pure beauty of which
scarcely one artist has succeeded in giving an adequate
expression.

Perhaps the dying entreaty of Goethe has sanctified
heaven's first-born to all coming time  "Let
in more light." These words seem to tell us that
to him this beautiful subtle essence was as soul to
soul.

It came, at this time, in the guise of a deliverer to
the prisoners in St Oswin's Church. They have for
some time past been so subdued in spirit, that little

else than monosyllabic conversation has been maintained
amongst them.

Mr Glascott has lost all his move. Mrs Braintree
has ceased to watch, and has fallen asleep in so curious
a position, that it is a wonder she has not twisted her
neck. Mr La Touche has inveigled the Canon into
one of the stone seats of the chancel, and has wedged
him therein so securely that a fall seems to be impossible.


The mantle of Mrs Braintree still covers her husband's
shoulders, and he looks as wretched as any
elderly gentleman can possibly look.

The others make the best of matters bravely, with
the exception of Daniel Dobree, who fidgets superhumanly,
and who is as cross as two sticks. Mr La
Touche is the most contented of the party in appearance
; but he is really very anxious on Miss Clavering's
account. The brother of that young lady, meanwhile,
indulges in language, under his breath, which is
not by any means parliamentary, and his wife huddles
against the brother and sister De Brett for warmth
and fellowship.

Mr Willoughby can stand this state of affairs no
longer, and he avows as much. So he requests his
tutor, whom he irreverently styles his "coach," to
lend him a hand, and assist him to mount up to the
window-sill of the casement, which seems to present
the safest footing.

What be 'ee going to do up there ? " screams old

Dobree, who is jealous of any action in which he has
no share. " What be 'ee up to ? "

I am going to holler," replied the young fellow
with a grin, as he looked down on the guide.

You have got to the wrong winder. You ought
to have gone to the one that has the plain glass at the
side  it opens for air, that one do. The one you have
got to is all as tight as wax. Why did you not consult
me ? " inquired Mr Dobree, with an ill-used look and
tone of voice.

Never fear," returns Mr Willoughby. " Here are
two panes quite loose ; I have only got to turn back
the lead with my knife."

If you spoils that stained glass you'll have to pay
for it pretty smart. That taller comes expensive.
The antiquaries says it can't be matched ; it's scarce
everywhere. They've got some at Ruin [Rouen], but
nothing so fine as this."

"All right; I'll take care." So saying, Mr Willoughby
detached two diamond panes, which were of
a gorgeous yet soft colour of old gold, and slid them
into his ample coat-pocket; then putting his mouth
to the aperture, he proceeded to " holler," and he did
it in style.

Murder !  mur-der !  thieves !  tramps ! Come to
St Oswin's Church !  come here !  party locked up !
I say, if there is anybody there, do answer, will you ? "

Do you see anybody moving, George ? " inquires
Mr La Touche.

There's a speck on the horizon which may be a

human being. When it gets larger I'll shout again.
Had I not as well give tongue to the names of some of
the principal inhabitants about here ? Dobree, just
give us the names of some of the swells  great folks,
I mean  who live in these regions ; the sound of them
may attract attention."

De Saumarez  them's admirals ; they are Guernsey
folk  it won't do no harm to name 'em, though
they ain't of so much account here." (There was
at that time much jealousy betwixt Jersey and
Guernsey.) "Ripon, Bonamy, Le Sieur de Pontiac,
he was originally from Brittany, and Mister Bree,
he's the principal boarding-house keeper in St
Aubin's."

Mr Willoughby rehearsed these cognomens, and
then shouted them coi more in the direction of
the shore.

His efforts were in vain, but he handed down one
crumb of comfort to his friends below him : the speck
on the horizon he ascertained most certainly to be a
living, moving man.

Jump up, Mr La Touche, to the window that opens
for air," he said ; " crash it open and shove out your
hand. Has anybody got a decent-sized pocket-handkerchief
? "

Dobree had a bright-blue article spotted with yellow
globes, which might, for size, have served for a sail.
This was made over to Mr La Touche, who, with the
assistance of the others, scrambled to his post, and
joined his shouts to the undercurrent of bellow which

young Willoughby was keeping up some feet apart
from him.

Mr La Touche, who had the advantage of much
greater space, inasmuch as he could, from his casement,
protrude his head, descried the figure, and after
a few moments' inspection, declared that it was that of
a man gathering sea-weeds. " He has got a basket
strapped round his shoulders, and stoops. I should
think he was a collector, seeking tine specimens very
probably." This information Mr La Touche imparted
as he cautiously withdrew his head.

"You are quite right; he is a collector," returned
Daniel Dobree. " You keep your eye on him and
holler in French. That man is a wonderful authority
in sea-weeds. I take it that it is Mr Jouvert; he's
always out after a storm."

Holloa ! hi ! voulez - vous venez ici ? " shouted
young Willoughby in a strong British accent.

'No, no, George, that won't do," remonstrated Mr
La Touche ; " let me call." And he thrust his head out
at the opening and vociferated, " Monsieur, Monsieur
Jouvert ! "

The individual thus adjured raised his head and looked
round : his attention had been aroused, but being too
far off to hear correctly, he gave the sea-birds the
benefit of the doubt, and proceeded to thrust his stick
into a mass of sea-tang which lay immediately in front
of him. The exultation of the scientist who has
lighted on a treasure was apparent in every movement
of this elderly man, as he cautiously extracted a 

head from the hairy, dripping pendants by
which it was entangled, and found that he had secured
a noble specimen of the Khodymenia, a rare sea-plant,
which grows generally in deep water only.

A piece of " medical coral," also rare, although it is
to be found at Youghal, in Ireland, had drifted beyond
tide-mark in company with its more splendid brother,
and thus the satisfaction of the apologist was supreme.

So was that of Mr La Touche also, as he beheld the
collector strike into a brisk walk in the direction of
St Os win's Church.

]Now was the time. Stephen first thrust his hand
through the little window and waved the blue pocket-handkerchief
with frantic gestures ; then he protruded
his head and called out in stentorian tones, " Monsieur
Fou  vert ! donnez-vous la peine de vous approached
par-ici, je vous en prie ; nous sommes referees dans
I'eglise meme." Meanwhile Mr Willoughby kept up
a running fire of " Votre ami. Monsieur Daniel Dobree,
est ici aussi, renferme par des mendiants."

Mr Jouvert is not prompted so much by the eloquence
of these addresses to hurry forward as he is by
the sight of the hand waving the blue pocket-handkerchief.
He waves his arm in sign of recognition, and
walks directly towards the j)oiiit from whence the
shouts proceed. He is soon within the churchyard
wall, for he knows the locality well, and stands before
the church door.

A rush of the entrapped apprises him of the circumstances
of the case, and Daniel Dobree, in the peculiar

Jersey patois which does duty in the Channel Islands
for the French language, entreats him to go to the
first house and seek assistance, and to require it also
from any one whom he should happen to meet on the
way. No time is to be lost, and the kindly Frenchman
wends on his errand with all the haste that the
emergency demands.

Mr Jouvert had not been lone one when he met a
trap which contained some of the household from Bygone,
driven by the proprietor of the hotel whereat
Stephen La Touche and his young friend were staying.
The latter, it appeared, had concluded that his guests
had put up at Brydone on account of the awful
weather, and it was the appearance of the butler from
that place making inquiries at five in the morning
that aroused alarm.

The landlord immediately had the trap out : placing
refreshments and blankets in it, he drove to Brydone
for a female servant, and made his way to the seashore.


His idea was, that the party had strayed too far,
and that in all probability the storm had prevented
their return by the sea-shore, and that they had probably
passed the night cowering among the cliffs. Mr
Le Eennetoul had been twenty years in the islands,
and one awful catastrophe by quicksand had made
him very alert and cautious in cases when persons
were long absent from their home.

Fortunately he could speak French, so that the communication
of Mr Jouvert put him at once in possession

of the whole affair. " We have brought refreshments
and other things," Mr Le Eennetoul observed
in reply ; " but the necessity of axe or crowbar was
certainly beyond my imagination."

The apologist suggested that it would be better, at
any rate, that they should drive on. " The ladies," he
said, " must be nearly exhausted ; and by tying handkerchiefs
together, bottles and jars could be passed up
through the windows of the church." This was assented
to, and in a very short space this first instalment
of comfort arrived at St Oswin's. There was a
grand parleying through the door, and the prisoners
were very much aggravated to find that the two tramps
had been relieved both at the hotel and at Brydone,
and were probably at that moment far on the other
side of the island, or perhaps sailing merrily away
from it.

"It's adding injury to insult," young Willoughby
declared, as he heard this news. " But never mind 
we'll get to the windows now and fish up the brandy.
'All's well that ends well '; and I do believe something
uncomfortable will come upon these fellows. They'll
get lagged some day, you'll see."

The fishing up the refreshments was no easy task,
but it was done ; and the sufferers were thankful for
the French brandy, which, in the Channel Islands, is
generally an unadulterated and pure restorative.
There was a general shaking up and adjusting of
toilets, and though all looked pale and miserable, still
none but Canon Braintree was really the worse for

VOL. III. c

the night's detention. He, poor man, had suffered
terribly ; but he was of the good old stuff which
makes no moan.

Mrs Braintree was quite revived after partaking of
the stimulant. All the assumption of the dignified
clergyman had vanished ; and Willina, who had at
first dreaded her as a visitor, was now convinced that
her guest was not only good-hearted, but also one
who could, like her neighbours, take the rough with
the smooth, and fare alike with them, and be none the
worse, although her husband was a Canon of Yarnee.
It must be said that some of Willina's experience of
clerical ladies had not been fortunate; indeed the
most worldly minded and the most selfish women she
had known had belonged to that class of society. It
is to be feared that in this experience Miss Clavering
was very far from being singular. Prebendal stalls,
headship of colleges, and other honours of the world
ecclesiastical, have in too many cases sadly changed for
the worse the character of the simple parson's wife.

A crowbar and axe have arrived, together with a
multitude of workers, and the usual following of idle
loiterers.

The door is soon broken open ; indeed had those
within been furnished with a single instrument of
mechanical force, however rude, their detention within
St Oswin's Church would have been short enough.
They are glad to be released, and as the light and the
sun have gained strength, they emerge upon as lovely
a waterscape as the world can produce.

There, far away, like a child asleep after rough play,
smiles the sea  the golden rays locking themselves
into rings of yellow light upon his brow. Here, spread
within his grasp, lie in motley confusion the playthings
of his stormy hours. The strong sea-tang
pressed into the ribbed sand, intermingled with filmy
scarlet threads, to which countless minute shells are
appended ; the elegant Cladophora, with her glaucous
hue, dragged from her distant home ; the crimson
tuft of the Ehodymenia ; a whole family of graceful
corallines, together with their nun-like sister whose
curious name is Melohesia polymorpha. All these have
been tossed and beaten by the waves ; and a poor
sea-bird, lying dead in its soft ruffled plumage, contributes
its mute testimony to the rage and the perils
of the deep.

The trap conveys the elder members of the party,
the rest returning on foot. Francis Clavering walks
briskly forward. His mind is full of the hours he has
lost in the dreary ruin of St Oswin ; and he persistently
encourages a vision, in which is depicted to his
mental sight the delights of the situation had Miss
Fanshawe been one of the companions of his captivity.
How he would have been cheered ! and how delightful
would it be if she were now at his side, enjoying the
delicious fragrance of the hour  doubly charming in
the emancipation from durance vile !

Mr Glascott, in the thankfulness of deliverance, has
also been mindful of this young lady, but in a somewhat
different spirit to that of Mr Clavering. All the

force of the elder gentleman's regard is concentrated
in congratulation that she has been spared this night
of personal discomfort, together with its great risk.
He looks at the wan, tired faces of his guests, and
his heart rises in gratitude that he has been saved
the pain of seeing her in the like case. He cannot
bear that even a passing inconvenience should dim
the beauty of her form ; that her calm, splendid intelligence
should be ruffled by any physical assault;
that her nerve should be shaken by even the shadow
of suffering.

Thus it is that this man, in his simple true-heartiness,
thinks of Lillian Fanshawe. Dear as her society
would be to him, he is thankful to forego it, and
he now turns his attention to comfort his guests,
and to alleviate the inconveniences which they have
endured.

Brydone is soon reached, and after some further
refreshment, the necessities of the case urge all to seek
their apartments and enjoy a bath and a long sleep.
It has been proclaimed that nobody will be expected
to meet anybody else until half-past two in the day,
at which time a dinner-luncheon had been appointed
to be served.

Ere they severally disperse, Stephen has contrived
to get a few private words with Willina. " It will be
as well," he added in conclusion, " not to speak to
Mr Glascott to-day. We will come up this evening,
and tomorrow I will make my propositions in due
form."

You are rights' she replied ; " my cousin has gone
through excitement enough for one day, and, after
the experiences of the last twelve hours, he certainly
deserves to have a short time of untroubled repose.
Good-bye now, and be sure to come up to tea ; and
mind to bring Mr Willoughby with you, and don't
behave as if you had only come to see me."

This little valedictory caution was necessary, for Mr
La Touche was beginning to be rather pronounce in his
attentions, and Miss Clavering had arrested a curious
smile on Mrs Braintree's face as the eyes of that lady
had rested on the pair as they stood at the hall-door
of Brydone. Willina had decided that Stephen should
evince no outward and visible sign of his privileges
until at least Cousin Everard's consent thereto had
been requested in proper form.

The two gentlemen then went to their hotel ; and
Willina, previous to retiring to her own room, hies to
the library to see if there are any letters for the
Brydone household spread on the table there. These,
if any, would have come on the afternoon of the
previous day, the steamer from England not generally
arriving at the port of St Helpers till nearly two
o'clock P.M.

Cousin Everard must be dreadfully knocked up,"
thought she, " for he has neither inquired for his
correspondence nor come to seek it : quite remarkable
for him, for he has been so anxious about the mail
of late. Like the rest, I fancy he is too tired to think
of anything but sleep."

One or two letters and a printed notification for
Canon Braintree ; a shoal of pamphlets for her brother,
in company with a small wooden box, which may
contain an inanimate specimen or an animate reptile
; a newspaper for herself, and a letter for Mr
Glascott. This last is addressed in the large, flowing,
-and conspicuously clear handwriting of Miss
Fanshawe.

Willina surveys this epistle, but she does not touch
it. The post-mark is intelligible enough  "Pinnacles,"
stamped within a vivid blue ring, with the date and the
capital letters "A. E." beneath. Pinnacles had only
very lately, through the exertions of its rector, acquired
a post-office of its own, with the right of a local stamp
for letters, consequently the outward signs of this dignity
were fresh and flaring. Miss Clavering looks
at it again, and then, heart-sick, she wends her way
to her chamber.

Whilst the house is hushed in silence, let us recount
the circumstances which called forth Miss Fanshawe's
present epistle to the master of Brydone. It has been
shown that when Mr Glascott first pressed his suit on
Miss Fanshawe, he did not meet with an immediate
or unconditional response. This arose, the lady
averred, from a delicacy with regard to Miss Clavering,
and also from a wish to be perfectly free and unencumbered
in her married home. It was on this
account that she took time for reflection.

Mr Glascott, for his part, could not understand why
there should be any objection to Willina still making

Brydone her home, he being perfectly ignorant concerning
the love-passages in which Mr Percival La
Touche had played so prominent a part, and which
were the root and branch of the reason that brought
an unexpressed but decided estrangement between
the two ladies.

Miss Fanshawe in this matter was decidedly to
blame. She had made up her mind to marry Percival
La Touche, and she could not, or would not, forgive
Willina for frustrating, however unintentionally, her
aspirations and desires. Miss Clavering, on the other
hand, had taken exception to what she termed Miss
Fanshawe's " managing manner " during their visit at
Hunter's Lodge. It was all very well to urge that
Colonel Leppell had requested this young friend to
supervise his household at that dreary time ; but
Willina felt that the yoke was upon all, and even
Alick Leppell, who was not famous for intuitive
sagacity, felt annoyed at the decided air of authority
with which the damsel treated all, both within and
without the circle of Hunter's Lodge.

Miss Clavering was also indignant at what she considered
Miss Fanshawe's neglect of her avowed friend,
Mary Clavering, at that time. She thought little, in
one sense of the situation, of her own brother's decided
appreciation of Miss Lillian. " Frank is a domestic
as well as a political economist," thought she, " and
Miss Fanshawe will save him an assistant, eventually.
What a fuss he made about old Mrs Guy, who set
his conchological museum afloat for him ! It is all as

well, and this fancy will save his wife a world of
worry, so let that be."

Thus Miss Clavering, who had only the faintest perception
of the footing upon which these two actually
stood.

Miss Fanshawe was equally confident of this ; but
her pondering on the subject led her to believe that
the too near propinquity of Willina might be dangerous
in the event of her marrying Mr Glascott  at any
rate, to herself the constant presence of that lady
might act as an incubus. Still, it would be as well todo
the magnanimous thing. This was to impress upon
Mr Glascott her reluctance to appear in the light of
an intruder to either Mr Clavering or to his sister : the
latter, she insisted, would feel as injured as if a
veritable mother-in-law were about to be introduced
into Brydone.

Mr Glascott did not agree in this opinion,  naturally,
because he was determined to marry Miss Fan-share
; and though he was not indifferent to the
opinion of his wards on the subject, he felt sure that
the handsome provision he had made for Francis, and
his conduct to him in the matter of his marriage with
Mary Leppell, would secure that relative's unqualified
assent. He trusted, with regard to Willina, to his
young cousin's affection for himself, and to the
generosity of her nature. It was possible that his
marriage might be a disappointment to her, but then
all objections would vanish when she learned who the
bride was to be. Thus Mr Glascott, who after a little

delay had been authorised, as we know, by Miss Fan-share
to communicate with her father, and request
his consent to the prosecution of his suit.

This, as we already know. Miss Lillian looked upon
as a mere matter of form. It was, therefore, with
some surprise that the young lady found that the
rector was not only unwilling to entertain a favourable
view of the matter, but that he held some objections
concerning it to which he gave a decided
expression.

"Do you know that this man is fifty-eight years
of age ? " said the rector, shortly, to his daughter,
after he had summoned her to a conference on the
subject of Mr Glascott's letter on the morning of its
arrival.

"He is fifty-nine, papa, or very nearly so," responded
that damsel, " and he is as strong as a youth
of twenty ; there's many a year's work in Mr Glas-cost,
and his sight is magnificent." This she said in
the coolest manner possible. She might have been
summing up the properties of an elephant or of an
eagle.

Um, yes ; that's all very well  an exception of
nature  but that's not the point. Do you not recognise
the immense disparity that exists between your
own age and that of Mr Glascott ?  a disparity
which reaches to nearly forty years."

Perfectly, and I rejoice in it : to a sickly effeminate
youth of twenty I should object, and object very
decidedly. In the matter of age, I have got to live

with Mr Glascott, and he has got to live with me.
If we marry, the disparity in age is our own affair
entirely; it affects no one but ourselves, and it is
nobody's business but our own."

Mr Fanshawe was silent for a moment, then he
said, "Are you prepared to encounter the opposition
which the Clavering cousins will very possibly offer
to their guardian's marriage with whomsoever it maybe?
You see," continued the rector, "and probably
you know, that Mr Glascott proposes to settle all he
has unreservedly upon you : do you suppose his cousins
will relish that ? "

"They would have no cause for disapprobation,"
said Lillian. " Mr Clavering possesses Tring by deed
of gift, and a sum is also settled upon him, which
makes him independent of Mr Glascott for ever. I
don't understand how, but it's legal."

Mr Fanshawe smiled slightly. "But what about
Miss Clavering ? She is not provided for half so
handsomely,  why is that ? " he said.

She has three thousand pounds, and if she marry
to her guardian's approbation, he will give her a dowry
on her wedding-day," replied Lillian.

Um  why is so great a difference made betwixt the
brother and sister ? " inquired the rector, diverging from
the direct line of discussion. " Wliat will the dowry
be ? It may not amount to more than an extra thousand
pounds. And then, in the event of Mr Glascott's
marriage, where is Willina's home to be ? I don't
like the idea of the girl being turned out by my

daughter, just as her guardian, for the first time in his
life, I believe, has acquired a settled residence and
placed her in it."

That need not trouble you, papa. At the moment
almost that Mr Glascott proposed to me, I made the
possibility of Miss Clavering's being adverse to the
introduction of a wife at Brydone a very serious objection
to my listening to his suit. In fact, I asked
for time to consider this matter before giving a final
reply."

I suppose Miss Clavering was consulted ? "

No ; but Mr Glascott thought it feasible that his
cousin could reside half the year at Tring, and pay
visits, and go to Brussels occasionally."

Then Mary and her husband have offered no objection
to this plan ? "

I don't know ; but Mr Glascott is satisfied on the
principal matter, and that is, that they will both be
gratified with his marriage with me. Mary and Miss
Clavering have become such affectionate friends, that
we are certain that the residence of the latter at Tring
would be a mutual satisfaction."

Perhaps so," said the rector ; " but much of this is
mere assumption, as it is evident the parties have not
been consulted."

Brydone will always be Miss Clavering's home, in
so far as I am concerned," replied Lillian ; " her objections
to living there are alone considered in the
plans I have spoken of. It is possible  very possible
that she may dislike the idea of Mr Glascott marrying;

but I think everything has been done, in prospective,
to soften the disappointment."

This Mr Fanshawe could scarcely gainsay. But he
again expressed his surprise that Miss Clavering
should be so slenderly provided for. " That is to say,"
he continued, " in comparison with the handsome provision
which has been made for her brother."

I suppose men are alike all over the world,"
Lillian answered ; " women always come in second
best where money is concerned. Besides, Mr Glas-cost
had a sickener of the sex in his early days,
thanks to Lady Asher and poor Mrs Leppell. Mr
Clavering has always been regarded by his cousin
as an eldest son, remember. Miss Clavering will do
well enough,  she has already got some magnificent
diamonds, the very counterpart of the set which Mr
Glascott presented to Mary as a wedding-gift."

I have seen them : they are splendid, and I am
heartily glad that Willina Clavering has got her
share," said the rector, quite enthusiastically.

"These two girls have had every stone, and Mr
Glascott was years in collecting them," said Lillian.
There was some agitation in her voice now, for what
diamond's woman can speak of these gems unmoved,
especially when they are possessed by those of the
sex whose chances of obtaining them have, in the
first instance, been as chimerical as her own.

Mr Fanshawe did not notice this. He was fully
satisfied that anything he had to offer in opposition
to the match was futile; and he was constrained,

moreover, to remember that he was the father of six
other damsels, whom, owing to the expenses of keeping
up Pinnacles, he could scarcely hope to dower.

But in the thorough fulfilment of his duty something
more had to be advanced, and the rector hesitated
and looked nervous as he gave this expression.

There is one thing of which I must be satisfied," he
said, in a kindly tone, " before I yield my consent to
this marriage. You are not, Lillian, my child  you are
not doing this to escape from home, and from  from
your mother. I know, and it has been the cause of
great grief to me, that you and your mother maintain
relations that are only outwardly amicable. It is a
sad position ; but I must honestly say that I think you
are as much in fault as she is."

Of course, dear papa, you do. You cannot understand
the amount of suffering which a mother can put
on her child if she be so minded, knowing that her
position as parent shields her from even a suspicion of
injustice, and consequently from blame and exposure.
I don't forget that you are my father, and that you
have always been tender towards me when away from
my mother, or beyond her influence. No ; as long as
you live, nothing would induce me to marry, merely
for the sake of getting away from home."

I am glad to hear you say that," replied the rector,
with a flushed face : his conscience pricked him that
he had been often weak in allowing Mrs Fanshawe
her own way and say with regard to this daughter.

Be satisfied, papa," Lillian continued ; " in this

affair my mother has never once entered into my
mind. It is to you, and to you only, that I apply for
permission to marry Mr Glascott."

The rector sighed. " I believe you will make a goodwife,
Lillian ; you are not like other girls of your age.
Yes ; I will write to Mr Glascott to-night."

Lillian stooped and kissed her father, and in a short
time she was corresponding regularly with the master
of Brydone.

Chapter III.

POT-pourra.

The object of Miss Fanshawe's letter to Mr Glascott
was to give him some information which he had,
evidently, very recently requested in a missive addressed
to herself.

A third person reading its contents would perceive
that the primary authorised stage of amatory correspondence,
such as congratulations on securing consent,
and so forth, had been well got through. The business
part of the proceedings was now the engrossing theme,
and it seemed to have already demanded some promptitude.


Mr Glascott was hereby informed that the wedding
would not take place at Pinnacles. Lady
Hautenbas had avowed her intention of presenting
her eldest niece with her trousseau; and further,
of giving the wedding-breakfast, and putting her
house in town at the command of her Fanshawe
relatives for the event. Consequently there had
been a family council, and it had been deemed

expedient to allow Lady Hautenbas to realise lier
undertakings.

Miss Fanshawe intimated also that when the time
was come to inform Miss Clavering of the intended
nuptials an invitation would be forwarded to her,
soliciting her attendance at the ceremony in the
capacity of bridesmaid. She had decided that her two
eldest sisters should be also selected for the post ; and
if their deep mourning should preclude the presence of
one of the Leppell girls, it would be as well to invite
one of the La Touches to fill the fourth place.
Marcia La Touche, the writer continued, had always
been kind and hospitable, and now was the opportunity
to recognise these attentions in a graceful way.

Mr Glascott would be glad to hear that the ceremony
would be performed by her father, and that her
eldest brother, Harold, was at that time being licked
into shape in order that he might give her away ; but
if Colonel Leppell (to whom she owed her happiness)
could be induced to be present, if only at the ceremony
in church, she would much prefer that her dear and
noble Everard should receive her at his hands.

This would be a satisfaction to the Colonel also.
Miss Fanshawe ventured to think ; but of course
nothing could be definitely ascertained until their
betrothal was publicly announced.

As yet none but Lady Hautenbas had been apprised
of the fact. It was satisfactory, however, to be able
to say that her ladyship very cordially approved of
the match.

Miss Fanshawe indulged in a surmise that two or
three weeks would terminate the house-warming hospitalities
at Brydone, and then, she hoped, she might
look forward to Mr Glascott's early appearance at
Pinnacles.

The letter concluded in an affectionate strain ; but
it was remarkable that no mention of her mother, nor
the slightest allusion to the existence of that lady, was
made, nor ever had been made, in Lillian's epistolary
communication with her fiance.

Strange, also, that Mr Glascott, with his exalted
notions of respect towards seniors of all degrees, never
observed the omission.

It is possible that a conversation he had held with
Miss Fanshawe some weeks agone, in which Mrs
Fanshawe had been the principal theme, had decided
that gentleman to regard the mother of his intended
wife as a very possible disturber of the peace matrimonial.
This is, of course, pure conjecture ; but if the
opinion existed, it was an injustice towards Mrs Fan-share.
She would never have caused annoyance
to a son-in-law by reason of interference. Her own
affairs were pressing enough ; but her sharp manner,
and her occasionally bitter speech, caused her to be
often misunderstood, and even dreaded, by her friends.

Many of her daughters remained unmarried eventually
; and the world declared that their mother
frightened off more than one would-be suitor who had
ventured to look over the fences of the Fanshawe fold.
The world was quite wrong : that bitter woe, genteel

VOL. III. D

poverty, was the working power in these cases. Besides,
generally speaking, it is the fussy, motherly gossip,
and more certainly, perhaps, the female who passes
for being a " sweet Christian," who generally contrive
to make mischief in their neighbour's domestic life.

Certain it is  and more the pity  that Mrs Fan-share
had treated her eldest daughter, from her earliest
infancy, more harshly than she really intended, or
perhaps knew. Little continued injustices harden a
child's heart more surely than even one overwhelming
wrong ; and after a certain time of persistence, mutual
distrust, if not mutual hostility, must necessarily
ensue.

Yet the compound called human nature is a strange
one, and that of Mrs Fanshawe presented the extremes
of conflicting forces. Had any one ventured to slander
or impute evil-doing to Lillian Fanshawe, her mother
would then have risen up like a lioness in her defence
: she would have championed her cause with all
the bravery of that animal. At the same time, she
would have stung her ruthlessly with the dart of a
mosquito tongue, and wounded her to the quick, in the
very hour of victory.

There might be a spice of selfishness even in this :
Lillian, after all, was her daughter.

Miss Clavering seeks bodily rest, but her spirit is
perturbed at the sight of Miss Fanshawe's handwriting.
That telegraphy was to her as the sign on the
wall, telling her that her kingdom was taken from her,
and that another would soon rule in her stead.

Well, be it so," the girl said aloud, after long musing.
" Yet nothing but Cousin Everard's command shall
turn me out. As long as I remain unmarried, I will
stick to him  nay, whatever may betide, I will be
unto him even as a daughter. It must never be forgotten
that Frank and I owe everything to him."

Resolutely jutting aside the wish that her guardian
might have made a better, or rather a more suitable
match, Willina schooled herself to accept whatever
her portion might be ; and she determined at the
same time to bear her part in this life religiously
and valiantly, and her conscience quite justified
her in pouring the whole wealth of her strong affection
on Stephen La Touche.

She knew that this would not be looked upon as a
very desirable alliance ; for in spite of good character
and personal attractions, there must be some thought
of the ways and means whereby to live. Mr La
Touche had only just made a start in life, and what
his father might be able to do in the way of provision
for his younger children was a most profound mystery.
Common prudence demanded that they should wait;
and if she had for one moment indulged in the day-dream
of living her married life beneath her guardian's
roof, the unerring voice of instinct warned her to reject
the fallacious hope, and prepare to bow her head
to the inauguration of a new regime.

Still she loved, and was beloved. Truly there is
balm in Gilead for those who can assure themselves
of the possession of strong affection and the constancy

,.,-rv/ nC It I lt4illh

which high esteem generally carries in its wake. She
could wait, and she would wait, resolved Willina ; and
in this determination she suddenly fell asleep.

The party assembled at the early dinner did such
good justice to that repast, and were so little the
worse of their adventure, that a project  suggested,
perhaps, by the magnificent sun and sky  was in
discussion to invade the French coast, and spend two
or three days either at Granville or Coutances.

Some additional guests belonging to the island were
expected on the morrow, and this excursion was proposed
chiefly on their account  the neighbourhood
around Brydone being naturally familiar ground to
them.

As a sea-trip of many hours' duration was a mere
bagatelle to her guardian, it was rather a surprise to
Willina to hear Mr Glascott begging himself off from
accompanying this expedition. He easily dissuaded
Canon Braintree from venturing on a voyage, and
announced his intention of driving him to see some
celebrated points of interest in the island.

Willina easily divined the meaning of this resolution,
and her jump at a conclusion leapt to the correct
issue.

Mr Glascott, although he would scarcely have admitted
the fact to himself, was nervously concerned
regarding the arrival of the mail from England. He,
however, advanced the usual plea when his solicitude
appeared to be remarked.

Most important business ! " he would say. " Very

unfortunate at this time ; but it is absolutely necessary
that I should receive my correspondence daily, 
there's no knowing what embarrassment a delay of
twelve hours may occasion."

Which was all nonsense, as Willettt the butler
knew. For some time past one solitary missive,
overshadowed by the number of letters addressed to
other people, and some files of newspapers for Mr Glas-cost
himself, constituted the amount of the important
correspondence to which that worthy and enamoured
gentleman laid claim. Willettt was a well-trained and
sensible domestic, who seldom indulged in speculations
concerning his employer's affairs ; but when so much
stress was laid upon the importance of business communications,
he was naturally led to wonder what on
earth was up. That his master should be immersed
in an amatory correspondence was beyond the wildest
flights of his imagination.

The two gentlemen from the hotel came up in the
evening, and Mr Willoughby made very merry in relating
a passage-alarms he had gone through with old
Dobree.

"I had hardly got out of my bath," that young
gentleman proclaimed, "before the old fellow was
down at the hotel demanding those two panes of
glass, and a skilled workman, if you please, to replace
them properly before the setting of the sun ! "

"That was quick work," replied Mr Clavering.
What did you say ? "

I sent down a message stating that I was an

infant, and that I was, moreover, going to bed, and
I further begged Mr Dobree to remember that I had
not slept so comfortably on the previous night ashe
had done."

What effect did that produce ? "

The waiter came back and reported that Dobree
would not go without the two panes of glass, infant
or no infant. Whereat I donned a sulphur-coloured
suit, striped with a warm brown, in which I figured
at a fancy ball last year as a Bengal tiger. Curling
the tail round my arm, I dashed downstairs, and
harangued Mr Dobree with such a string of long-worded
adjectives that he was fain to beat a retreat."

Did you mount the tiger's head ?" asked Mrs
Clavering.

Oh yes ; that slips on like a cowl, and the glass
eyes are very telling. That suit is delightful, because,
substituting horns and a different physiognomy, it will
answer another part famously. I went once to a
fancy ball as his Satanic majesty, but somehow the
girls did not seem to like dancing with me ; so I
stick to the Bengal tiger role, which they rather
seem to fancy."

What did Dobree say ? " inquired Mrs Brain -
tree ; " the man must have been nearly frightened
to death."

No, he wasn't ; he seemed much more alarmed at
the possibility of damage done to the glass, and the
consequent wrath of that epicure in stained glass, ashe
calls him, Mr Goitt. Besides, the hotel people

roared with laughter ; but I think the string of long-worded
adjectives to which I treated him had the
effect of reducing him to temporary submission. I was
rather riled at being worried, so I was determined to
take my own time. Besides, I heard the head-waiter
avow that all would be made right, but that the
gentleman would not be bothered till he had had a
sound sleep."

Mr Glascott had undertaken to repair the lock of
the church-door and other concomitant damages. He
now advised Mr Willoughby to restore the stained
glass to its rightful position, and volunteered to send
a glazier over to St Oswin's at the same time. " You
can have the dog-cart, and go early tomorrow morning,"
he said.

Thank you ; and I will call at old Dobree's cottage
on the way, and take him with us, as a kind of master
of works. I daresay I shall mollify him by this delicate
little attention."

That glass is most rare and valuable," Mr Glas-cost
replied, " and Dobree is only doing his duty in
looking after it. Mr Goitt pays him a small sum for
attending to the whole ruin, and especially for the
care of the glass."

Mr Glascott then said, as a matter of general information,
that he should go out early on the morrow.
A friend of his, one Captain Le Geyt, had a small
steam-launch, and he hoped to get that gentleman
to allow him the use of it for the expedition to the
French coast.

This move suited Mr La Touche. " You see," he
said to Miss Clavering, " I need not ask consent tomorrow
: Mr Glascott will be busy about the steam-launch,
and we have really had very little of each
other's society. Let us be as young people who ought
to have an opportunity of knowing more of each other ;
and let me report at headquarters, after we have
returned from Coutances."

It was evident from this address that Stephen had
some misgivings as to the favourable reception of
his proposals by Mr Glascott; at any rate, if he did
not actually wish to defer the evil hour, he certainly
was very anxious to enjoy the sweets of the present
time.

As Miss Clavering was, in her turn, troubled by
untoward forebodings, she made no opposition to this
plan. She was sincerely glad to take her pleasure
unencumbered by the presence of Lillian Fanshawe.
I am beginning to abhor that girl," thought she. " It's
very wicked, I know ; but I cannot help feeling it
probable that I shall never again enjoy much unfettered
action at Brydone." She merely insisted that
Stephen should be very guarded in his attentions, and
strongly recommended him to be very attentive to
Miss Le Geyt. That young lady was to be invited to
join in the excursion, and Miss Clavering had heard
from her brother that she was both pretty and very
ricci.

Another thing," urged Miss Clavering, " I want
you to be very civil to Mrs Braintree. You seldom go

near her; you really should pay her some attention,
for she is coming, rather against her will I believe, as
chaperon-general."

Miss Clavering did not allege her true reason for
this injunction ; but if by these previsions she imagined
that she was blinding the mental vision of that lady,
it is certain that her labour was in vain. Mrs Brain-tree
had overheard a part of what had been whispered
in the crypt of St Oswin's by Stephen La Touche to
Willina. She had thereupon coughed, and, as it was
dark, she had grinned unrestrainedly, and then, like a
good woman, she had resolved to do " deaf adder "
when brought into close contact with these young
people, and, what was wiser still, to hold her tongue
until, at least, matters should proclaim themselves.

Following up what she had seen at the picnic in the
woods of Barkholme, Mrs Braintree held a very decided
opinion as to the intentions of her present host
and Miss Fanshawe ; but here there was less of sympathy
than of business in her feelings. She looked
upon a marriage between Mr Glascott and Lillian as
so much gain to the Anglican Church : a clergyman's
daughter would be dowered, and by this means also
some of the revenues of Dives would be applied to the
maintenance of that establishment.

Already she had built a church at Brydone, found a
curate, decided that Mr Glascott should pay expenses,
and finally married the curate to a friend of her own.
These visions were very pleasant, but if Mrs Braintree
intended to realise them through the medium of Miss

Fanshawe, her expectations were futile. It never occurred
to her that there would be any difficulty in
inducing a young lady, brought up in clerical circles,
whoever she might be, to enlarge the borders of the
fold ecclesiastical. She could not recognise that, by
virtue of too close a propinquity, Lillian abhorred
Sunday-schools, clubs, mothers' meetings, Dorcas societies,
and even cottage' flower-shows.

Not even the flower-shows," Lillian had said to
her curate sister, Etta, in answer to some of the expostulations
of the latter on the subject. " There's a
stamp of pious begging even on them, and I venture
to predict that in a few years' time England will become
a vast charity-box, creating by this action the
misery which charity is intended to assuage."

"Well, but the parish flower-shows are good in
one way," said Etta; "they bring people together
from long distances who wish to be brought together."


'' Certainly ; and they bring people together who
don't wish to be brought together : there's too much
humbug in all these things. You and mamma will
chat at these shows with all the amiability in life to
Mrs Dares and her nice pretty girls, and yet you
would not consider them up to the level of a garden-party
at the Court. Of course, you know, and I
know, that mamma is only polite in proportion to the
sale of tickets  that is, to the Brown and the Jones
and the Robinson portion of humanity."

This was not quite correct, although much that

Lillian advanced on these subjects was of the "much
smoke, little fire " description.

Certain it is, that if Mrs Braintree had been acquainted
with Miss Fanshawe's sentiments on the
political economy of parishes, she would not have been
so ready as she was to hail her in society as Mr Glas-cost's
wife. It never occurred to this good lady that
this possible match was very unsuitable in point of
age ; that by it Miss Clavering might be ousted from
the home that had been entirely made for her, and
that the young cousin might object very strongly also
to the introduction of a wife at Brydone in any shape
or form.

Vanity of vanities ! in the Church, the law, the
services, in trade and commerce, is not the possession
of the good things of life  hard, bare money  the
principle which attracts the mental reverence of this
nineteenth century ? Honour is accounted barren,
love a delusion, loyalty and good faith bigotry; all, allis
going down before the insatiable thirst for money,
or its equivalent, money's worth. What wonder, then,
that Mrs Canon Braintree should unconsciously swim
with the stream ?

Mr Glascott secures the steam-launch, the sea is
wonderfully calm, and the Brydone guests experience
much enjoyment, sailing first to Coutances and then
on to Granville. There is something peculiarly quaint
in these old towns of the Manche province, their grey
sobriety being at times checkered by the bright spots
of life brought in by the influx of visitors at certain

seasons, and the sedate bustle  if the expression maybe
permitted  which usually pervades a French seaport
town.

Mr Willoughby was charmed with the machinery
worn on the head by the Granvillaise fisher-girls, and
in the excitement of his enthusiasm he purchased a
complete head-dress of the country, praising stiff white
caps and lappets at the expense of the odious British
bonnet, and further informing his friends that this
trip had added inamorata number nineteen to his list.

Go on, my friend," ejaculated Mr La Touche, as he
listened to these revelations  " go on ; you are doing
exceedingly well. You are a happy walking illustration
of the proverb, ' There is safety in the multitude ' ;
by all means let us get to number twenty, or even
beyond it."

Mrs Braintree, in this case, was not sympathetic.
She knew that Mr Willoughby would eventually
come into money"; but, as she expressed it, "he would
never do to marry into the Church. A young man
with such proclivities ought never to come within hail
of a clergyman's daughter : the loss was great, but the
risk infinitely greater."

As it turned out, years after, Mr Willoughby did
marry into the Church  mating with a clergyman's
widow, who had the advantage of him in ten years of
prior existence on this planet, and a family of six
splendid boys, who kicked his shins and pulled his
hair, and dubbed him " a beast " when he resented these
delicate attentions. For all that he was very happy.

The woman he had cherished and comforted loved him
with a great and surpassing love ; and he thanked
Providence that he had been allowed to map out his
own path in life, and that Mrs Grundy had no power
over him either in the present or for ever more.

The trip answers all the purposes of Stephen and
Willina, as their companions are far too much occupied
with themselves and the novelties they witness
to extend much notice towards their fellow-creatures.
Consequently they chat confidentially, and Miss
Clavering is put, among other things, in full possession
of the designs of the elder Mr La Touche
with regard to Stephen and Madame Heine.

I tell you this," said Stephen, apologetically,
because I see that both my father and my aunt
are determined to bring this Heine match about."

What reason have they for interfering in the
matter ? "

The sole and simple reason that Madame Heine is
the actual possessor of 20,000. I am managing some
law business for her, and my father thinks  like all of
his name, I am ashamed to say  that it is the duty of
younger sons to make money,  the prime, I may say
the only, consideration for which they are to marry.
Madame Heine has passed by, consequently I am
supposed to commit a grievous sin in not securing
the gilded prize."

Is she nice ?  I mean as a woman gilded," inquired
Willina.

Yes, rather ; a mediocre matter-of-fact kind of

body, very respectable, and all that. She has no
more intention of marrying me than she has of
marrying the man in the moon," quoth Stephen ;
"but my father is so infatuated with the idea, that
he is quite capable of saying that an engagement
between us is imminent."

I am so glad you have told me," the girl answered
simply ; " because if this where repeated to Cousin
Everard, I shall know what the information is worth.
I am glad you have told me ; for my cousin is incapable
of offering inaccurate statements to serve his own
ends, and naturally he accredited every one else with
the same honesty."

It is a hard thing to mention a parent with anything
but honour," Stephen said, after a pause. " My
father is a kind-hearted man, and in a certain way he
is a good man ; but, as I have told you before, the appreciation
of money permeates every thought and action
of his life. A certain timidity of character causes him
sometimes to give in to any stronger will that may be
resolutely opposed to him. I have to a certain extent
opposed him in his designs about Mrs Heine ; but
now, of course, I shall take a very decided course of
action."

'' You might suggest that he should marry her himself,"
Miss Clavering answered.

I don't know how he might take it," said Stephen ;
and the decision of the lady in question might be
adverse."

Which means that a friend of mine has very good

reason for believing that he has only to ask and
have," qiioth Miss Clavering, with a little air of
triumph.

Oh, I don't know  don't you chaff a fellow like
that. But, seriously, I have always observed in reading
the love-passages of other people's lives, that more
than half their troubles arise from a want of confidence.
This is mostly shrouded under the garb of
delicacy  a false delicacy often, which leads to much
wrong action and mischief. Now, we will avoid
that."

Certainly, by all means," replied Willina, looking
at her lover with her golden brown eyes enthusiastic
with faith and honest affection.

Let us then make a compact, and resolve, soul and
conscience, to fully, freely, and unreservedly confide
in each other ; and, above all, to give no credence to
any report or information which has the nullifying of
our engagement for its aim."

Willina placed her hand in his and pressed it
firmly. This was satisfaction enough.

One thing you must understand, dear," she said at
length, " and I say it unreservedly  I won't marry
without Cousin Everard's consent."

Quite right," he replied. " I am quite prepared
for a difficulty about the money ; but I feel sure that
is only a question of time. I am only jealous of the
delay on your account. I know so many will be
anxious to occupy the place I now hold. Your
guardian, too, will think that you ought to marry

SO very much better. He may also think it right
in your interests to encourage rich men. Besides,
whenever that time may be, he will naturally be so
loth to part with you on his own account."

Willina was very much tempted to set Mr La
Touche's uneasiness on the last point completely at
rest ; but a moment's reflection decided her to remain
silent. In the first place, she held no actual assurance
that her apprehensions concerning Mr Glascott's
marriage were correct ; in the second, it would be unbecoming
to disclose Mr Glascott's private affairs even
to Mr La Touche. Certainly, in one aspect of the
situation, it would have been a satisfaction to apprise
Mr La Touche that her guardian would in a short
time be quite independent of her companionship.

An allusion made by Stephen to their first meeting
at Pinnacles Court caused the conversation to veer
round to Miss Fanshawe. " I fancied," said Stephen,
that I should have the honour of regarding that
young lady as my sister-in-law ; but somehow the
impression does not seem to be likely to be realised.
My brother, I am aware, is both fickle and suspicious ;
but I fancy Mrs Fanshawe frightened him off."

Stupid woman ! " replied Miss Clavering, with so
much energy that Stephen looked amazed. " Yes ; it
is stupid of a woman with so many portionless daughters
to frighten off any suitor  that is, if the girl
seems likely to accept him. Besides, Mr La Touche
was premature in his conclusions. I feel convinced
that Mrs Fanshawe would be so glad to get rid of her

eldest daughter, that she would gladly have undertaken
to leave her alone to the end of time it'
need be."

Well, it is only my idea, you know. I like Mrs
Fanshawe, but I don't think I should relish the position
of being her son-in-law. Men, in general,
search very keenly into the character and deportment
of the mother of the lady whom they may elect towed.
Many a match comes to nought because Smith
or Brown distrusts his future mother-in-law : this happens
much more often than is generally known or
admitted."

Would you have liked the connection ? " inquired
Willina  " I mean personally."

It would have gratified me in some respects," was
the reply, "but not altogether. I think Miss Fan-share
would have been quite equal to keep Percival
in his place, which would have been a blessing to
society at large. On the other hand, I cannot forget
the coldness and neglect with which she treated my
poor aunt during the residence of the latter in Pinnacles
village ; and mind you, Lillian Fanshawe would
never have looked at Percival, did he not possess a
good fortune."

You think she gave him encouragement, then ? "

"Not a doubt of it, and my aunt Marcia almost
announced their engagement as a settled matter ; but
when Percival saw you, my queen, he transferred his
allegiance, and that quickly, and to my belief Mrs
Fanshawe finished the rest."

VOL. III. E

"Your brother was a fool for his pains," said
Willina.

"He was," returned that relative, with charming
candour. " You very soon let him see that he could
not, as the French say, vous faire la cour ; but I had
a very uneasy time of it while it lasted, especially as I
felt convinced that Percival redoubled his attentions
to you, when he saw how much his behaviour annoyed
me."

Willina laughed, but she said no more. It was not
for her to proclaim that Percival had veritably paid
his addresses to her and had been summarily repulsed.
That was a little secret appertaining also to Mr La
Touche, and which, as a gentlewoman, Miss Clavering
felt bound to respect. She was confident of Miss
Fanshawe's silence on this subject, and so she rather
encouraged the idea that Percival's attentions to herself
had, for meaning, the delight of giving pain to his
younger brother.

Coutances and Granville had been thoroughly explored
and as thoroughly enjoyed, and that without
the rush and the superficial examination with which
the average Britons prosecute their rambles abroad.

Mr Clavering satisfied himself that this part of the
coast of France was not nearly so abundant in mineral
wealth as the rocks at Jersey. He resolved to visit
Brydone annually, and as much oftener as possible, to
investigate the unknown geological treasure which he
felt convinced lay beneath the rocks and vales of the
Channel Islands.

Subsequent discoveries have fully justified Mr
Clavering's surmises ; but twenty years ago the fascinating
science of geology was, save to a few scholars,
a veritable terra incognita to the world in general, and
it certainly was then regarded as the driest study in
the educational programme.

Fair Mary in a measure recovered her spirits ; but
with such a rapacious and volatile father she naturally
felt anxious to know how affairs at Hunter's
Lodge were progressing: she dreaded the rebound
when the Colonel's spirit should be restored to its
usual elasticity.

Lillian Fanshawe was such a restraining power in
that household, that Mrs Clavering fell imperceptibly
into the opinion that the Colonel could do worse than
make her his second wife, and she propounded this
vision to her husband one afternoon, as they sat together
on the sands, throwing stones into the water
and watching the tide.

Never say such a thing  never think it I " returned
Francis, his face reddening with indignation. "Do
you suppose it possible that a girl of such learning
and exalted intellect would consent to preside over a
bear-garden and a hunting-stable combined, for life ?
The idea is preposterous  absurd ! "

Perhaps it is," Mary answered gently. " I only
remembered, when I spoke, how often and how long
my father's house has been a refuge to Lillian when
she was unhappy in her own home."

"That may be," returned Francis, mollified by his

wife's soft answer ; " and your mother was, of course,
a very alleviating element. But the idea of that girl
marrying Colonel Leppell is simply outrageous. What
a sacrifice it would be ! "

"I don't think you need be apprehensive on my
friend's account," continued Mary, who had not discarded
the feasibility of a union between Mr La
Touche and Lillian. " She has seen and felt too
severely the trials of genteel poverty to undertake an
elderly widower with a large family. She will no
doubt, in time, form a prudent alliance."

Mr Clavering did not feel inclined to go into particulars
on this matter, and so invited his wife to walk
down to the pier and watch the yacht Clothe come into
port.

CHAPTEE IV.

STEPHEN AND Willing.

The party returned to Brydone in due course ; the
local visitors very shortly afterwards took a final leave,
and Canon and Mrs Braintree departed at the same
time for their rectory in London.

Mr La Touche and Mr Willoughby had decided to
cross to Branches, and from thence visit Dinah for a
few days. Mr Willoughby possessed an aunt at the
latter place, who, after having put ten children into
the world, and being nearly sixty years of age, had
betaken herself to that retreat in order to study the
French language.

Some of the lady's friends, however, averred that
motives of economy compelled her to live in seclusion,
and that the French studies served as a mask to conceal
this fact. However that may be, evasion from
real fact is both common and idiotic ; for as the veil
is generally transparent in the long-run, it would be
far more politic to ignore Mrs Grundy and speak the
truth.

Mr Willoughby had been enjoined by a parental
missive to make this particular visit ; and as that
young gentleman declared that he would not budge
in the direction of Dinah unless Mr La Touche went
with him, Stephen felt he must perforce accompany
his friend.

It will be only a matter of a few days," Stephen
said to Willina, as this move was discussed. " It is
horribly provoking ; but after all, I would rather speak
to Mr Glascott when the house is entirely clear of
guests."

Miss Clavering agreed in this, as, after the lapse of
a week, the Claverings would be the only remaining
visitors.

These would not stay much longer, for Frank was
obliged to go to London to arrange about a lecture he
was shortly to give at the Osteological Institute, and
Mary was anxious to see her new home. Her husband,
who knew the place, was not quite so eager ;
but common propriety demanded that he should accompany
his wife thither, and be seen with her at
church on the Sunday following their arrival.

The evening on which they were first alone as a
family party was the time at which Mr Glascott chose
to make the announcement that Lillian Fanshawe was
his betrothed wife.

His happy countenance and his assured voice testified
that he did not apprehend the slightest objection
from his relatives to this circumstance. Indeed the
rapture with which his cousin Francis received the

news was so earnest, that his guardian became more
impressed with the conviction that he was bestowing
a boon upon the family by the introduction of this
lady within its circle. Mrs Clavering was not behind
her husband in her expressions of delight at what
she termed the extraordinary good-fortune of them
both.

Turning to Willina, she said, " You will not be so
much tied to Brydone now, and I shall have no hesitation
in taking you from Cousin Everard for long
visits at Tring; and poor Lillian will be free from
Pinnacles. Oh, what a happy arrangement this is ! "

"Yes," said Mr Glascott ; " and I am delighted to.be
able to tell you, Mary, that I owe this to your father.
I was from the first much struck with Miss Fanshawe's
resemblance to my dear early friend, your mother ; but
I should hardly have ventured to ask her to become
my wife, had not Colonel Leppell encouraged my
hopes, and predicted success."

Alas ! hear the proverb of the old Greeks : " A foe's
gift is no gift, and brings no profit."

Willina said little ; but she rose, bent over her
guardian's chair, and kissed his forehead. Like the
true gentlewoman she was, she had resolved to accept
her portion graciously, and to remember how much
she owed to Cousin Everard : none present had the
slightest idea what bitter news this was to her.

They talked together of wedding arrangements, and
Mr Glascott informed them of Lady Hautenbas' proposition.
" I have had so many expenses all at once

this year, that I cannot manage another diamond
jparure. I have some emeralds somewhere," he continued
; " I daresay I can have a set arranged out of
them."

In his earlier days Mr Glascott had entertained a
fancy for collecting gems ; this fancy now served him
in good stead.

Willina rose and left the room. She returned immediately,
carrying the case of diamonds which Mr
Glascott had presented to her on the occasion of Mary
Clavering's wedding.

Take these diamonds, dear Cousin Everard," she
said ; " they have never been worn, and I am not likely
to want them : do accept them for my sake ; your
bride is entitled to them, and I may not marry where
jewels would be required." As she spoke she pressed
the case into her guardian's hand.

Mr Glascott was reluctant to take back his gift, but
the united persuasions of the young people at length
overcame his scruples.

Well, Willina," he said, " you are a generous soul !
I promise you that in the end you shall not be the
worse for your noble kindness." He was evidently
much moved.

A few days afterwards, the Claverings set out for
Tring, and Mr La Touche arrived at Brydone on the
eve of their departure.

He immediately sought Mr Glascott, and laid his
proposals for his ward before him. Demur and difficulty
he had schooled himself to expect ; but he was

totally unprepared for the decided refusal with which
his propositions were met.

Naturally very much perplexed, Mr La Touche requested
an explanation of the reason of his being enjoined
not to see Miss Clavering again. This prohibition
seemed so arbitrary and so very uncalled for, that
the young man could not restrain himself from intimating
as much.

Mr Glascott did not shrink from what he believed to
be his duty towards Willina. " I have no objection to
you personally," he said ; " but if I have a horror of
any one thing in humanity, it is of mania. You are
well aware, sir, that insanity has been, and is, and
will be in your family for generations ; I cannot allow
it to be perpetuated by a relative of mine, a ward
especially."

Stephen combated this with all the arguments in
his power, preserving all through the conversation a
respectful demeanour and perfect temper. All was to
little purpose ; nothing that he could say modified in
the slightest degree the rooted determination which
seemed to impel Mr Glascott to reject his suit. He
became so utterly dejected, after all his entreaties had
failed, that Mr Glascott could not refuse him one
interview with Willina. " I accord you half an hour,"
he said to the young man. " I may be unwise in
this; but I wish you to understand that I desire
to act justly and in kindness both to you and to
her."

The interview was sad enough: the only comfort

that it brought was the opportunity which it gave
the lovers to declare their mutual faith and trust
in each other, and to concert some plan of future
action.

Somehow," said Stephen, " my family have obtained
intelligence of the relation in which we stand
to each other. I had a letter from my father yesterday,
in which he says that he will never give his
consent to my engagement with you."

There was little inclination on the part of Miss
Clavering to speculate upon this matter. Indeed Mr
Glascott sent for the young lady so suddenly, that her
parting with Stephen was very brief. " Trust and
patience will win through," said she. " Keep up, dear
heart ; see how strong and firm I am. I have no fear ;
for, Stephen, in spite of all, we are only doing the
thing that is right."

So he went his way, and Willina hied to her
guardian's study. Mr Glascott seemed disturbed and
perplexed, and after some remarks on the subject at
issue he said 

I don't like the La Touches as a family ; but that
is neither here nor there. What I want to urge upon
you now is to recognise the fact, that the scourge of
insanity is rampant amongst the whole connection of
that name more or less."

Surely there are some of them as sane as their
neighbours ? " the young lady said, in a tone of surprise
not unmixed with remonstrance.

They are all more or less, as I said before, tarred

with thS same stick. Those of them who pass muster
barely save themselves. Just look at that Percival,
sharp and shrewd in business as he is reputed to be.
Look at the glare in his eye if any one contradict
him!"

"Stephen La Touche is highly thought of at the
bar," the girl replied ; " you do not mean to say
that his brain is unsound ? "

Not at present,  and mind you he is the best of
the family. But the La Touches have had maniacs or
imbeciles among them for generations back  the consequence
of the greed which, in order to keep money
in the family, impelled the elder people to marry none
but first cousins. Yes ; brother-cousins wedding with
sister-cousins, and always in the first degree  what
else could come of it ? "

Willina replied that " it was unfortunate, most unfortunate.
Mrs Kemble, however, was childless," she
added, as an alleviation.

That is certainly a blessing," Mr Everard allowed,
in allusion to Willina's last remark ; " but she won't
die off, you'll see. In fact, she is quite likely to see
us all out. Do you know that old La Touche has a
brother in confinement at this moment ? "

I do know it," answered Willina ; " and although
none of his younger brothers or sisters are aware of it,
Mr La Touche told me of this uncle's existence. He
is imbecile, and lives at a private asylum near
Dumfries."

There's another that won't die," said Mr Glascott,

gruffly for him. "That fellow will live till he is a
hundred; it's the way of them."

Mr La Touche has concealed nothing," Willina
went on bravely to say. " He has even told me," she
continued, " that he fears that his youngest sister, who
is afflicted with epileptic fits, will eventually lose her
reason. He feels it deeply, and regrets it as much as
you can do. Cousin Everard, with regard to myself."

Then why, in the name of commonsense," replied
Mr Glascott, " will you persist in affiancing yourself
to this gentleman ?  in deliberately entering a family
which, in spite of all the precautions of its members
to conceal the fact, has more than one near relation in
confinement ? "

Because I believe," the girl answered, a bright
flush irradiating her face as she spoke, " that Stephen
is the one among them of good large brain, and of
sound moral and physical health, and that he will 
nay, that he does  direct all his energies to counteract
the scourge of which you speak."

He is of the blood of the La Touches all the same ;
you cannot alter that."

"No, Cousin Everard, I wish I could," returned
Willina, simply ; " but one thing, I am in no wise connected
with the family, and I come, as I believe, of
sound stock. We do not want to do anything rash,
or to displease you in any way. All I ask is, that
you will not positively refuse your consent to our
engagement."

Really, Willina, I cannot see my way to countenance

it even. I don't mean to disparage Mr La
Touche ; but you know  you must see it  that in
making this match you are literally throwing yourself
away. He has no money, and I don't believe that
eventually old La Touche can do much for his younger
children. As to your own means, the interest of
3000 is little enough."

We have considered all that," Willina replied ;
and we hope that time will cause our friends to
change their opinion. We are young, and can afford
to wait."

She spoke humbly, and, at the same time, rather
sadly ; for she could not but remember the handsome
provision which had been made to her brother on his
marriage with Mary Leppell. The great generosity of
her nature obliterated all thought of the jewels which
she had just surrendered to Mr Glascott's affianced
wife, strong, no doubt, in the trust that in due time
an equivalent for these would be made to her. At
this moment she had forgotten all about personal
adornments and luxury; she only wanted her guardian's
consent to her marriage with Stephen La
Touche. For this she would wait any time, and
accept any conditions.

Wait ! are you prepared to wait ten or twelve
years ? " Mr Glascott inquired, after a moment's
silence.

"Yes, if needs be; but Mr La Touche has every
prospect of being in a good position before that. You
allow, Cousin Everard, that he is steady and hardworking,

and you, and all the world," she added,
drawing herself up with stately grace  " all the world
must hold him to be a thoroughly honourable and
upright man."

"Certainly. Still, Willina, I wish I could induce
you to give up this affair altogether. It has been too
precipitate, too hurried,  you have not seen enough of
life to bind yourself so seriously. In a few years
hence you may repent having ever seen this man, let
alone his family."

Never ! "

Well, it is useless," returned Mr Glascott, " to say
more on this subject now. Think it over well : I can,
I know, depend upon your doing nothing precipitate."

My promise is given," said Willina, slowly, " for
life and death. That I cannot retract ; but I will not
marry without your consent."

She then went to her room and surveyed the position
calmly before she wrote to her sister-in-law, upon
whose influence she greatly depended to bring her
brother to look favourably on her engagement. To
say the truth, she had expected some opposition from
him, as Frank regarded money above most other things ;
for Mr Glascott's decided disapproval she had not been
so well prepared.

Still Miss Clavering's strong sense of justice reminded
her that her guardian was thoroughly in the
right in what he had advanced concerning those individuals
who rashly marry into families wherein
the taints of insanity and scrofula are immutably

fixed. But she also insisted that something was due
to a clear brain, and the means taken to counteract
physical weakness. Her own strong sound constitution
should also count for something.

But it was the inference which had been made that
Stephen would never be able to provide a home, that
mostly annoyed Willina. "It is a scandal to say so;
see how hard he works, and how clever he is ! " she
exclaimed under her breath. " The family affliction
is a drawback, I admit; still the elder ones have
married, and the younger ones will do so. I should
like to see any society woman refusing Percival for
this reason," and the girl laughed outright at this
idea.

Then, with that proclivity to blame another woman
which is part and parcel of the sex in general, Willina
thought of Lillian Fanshawe. " It is all that girl's
doing, I do believe ; she has never forgiven me for
taking' the said Percival from her. Cousin Everard
has been quite a different man since he became engaged
to her, at least to me ; and I believe Miss La
Touche has been juggled into believing that Stephen
has behaved very badly to Madame Heine."

As to the objections which Mr La Touche felt and
expressed as soon as he heard of the proposed match,
Stephen held that they arose out of " sheer contradiction
and mortified pride."

This part of the business did not trouble Miss
Clavering in any great degree, and perhaps the fact
that she had repulsed Mr La Touche's eldest son,

compensated her fully for the difficulties that had
been raised with regard to her alliance with Stephen.
She was content to leave this to speculation ; her real
trouble was the decidedly adverse position of Mr Glas-cost,
and more than all, the manner in which he had
expressed his objections at their late interview. This
grieved her sorely. " Had he been angry or disagreeable,"
the girl said to herself, " I should not have
minded his objections half so much. Had he even
brought any valid reasons why I should give up this
match, it would not be so hard. Why are we to suffer
for the avarice and greed of past generations of the La
Touche family ? and why should Cousin Everard treat
the matter with such displeasure, and yet be so kind
in his manner of reasoning with me ? Oh, that he
had been very angry, and had even abused Stephen !
As it is, I mUvSt be firm ; but it seems almost cruel
to appear to stand out against him  cruel and ungrateful."


Thus reasoned Miss Clavering after her conference
with her guardian. She would have been better
pleased to have been treated with harshness, or at
least with some diminution of confidence.

Some of us have gone through this experience.
Some of us know how hard it is to resist the pleading
of a parent, or the kind abstention from rebuke when
it has to be said that we cannot give them their
heart's desire ; that the love which they, in their
wisdom, have sought to influence or direct has flown
out into other channels ; that we deprecate their displeasure,

but cannot give up the blessings, as they
appear to us, of our own chosen partner, or our own
chosen path in life: their silent disappointment falls
then like barbed steel, and it enters into the soul.

Ah, yes ; it is when they turn from us with sad
displeased mien and averted gaze, speaking more in
sorrow than in anger, that our philosophy gives way,
and we begin to doubt whether we are not only in
error, but are also very hardened and persistent in
our wronsj-doinor.

The parting of Stephen and Willina was indeed so
hurried, that there had been merely time to inform
Mr La Touche of Mr Glascott's own engagement with
Miss Fanshawe, and that without comment or much
amazement. They had closely followed the course
pursued by most young people, and left all outside
themselves, and their own affairs, entirely out in the
cold.

Stephen's last words expressed a determination to
go up to town that night, and have it out with his
father and Marcia. He wondered why his father
should never give his consent to his marrying Miss
Clavering. What could have been said ? and who had
said it ? It was not possible that his father or anyone
else should imagine for a moment that he would
espouse Madame Heine : however, to save further mistakes,
he would, in the strongest of language that was
admissible to a parent, flatly refuse to do anything of
the kind.

He returned to the hotel, and told young Willoughby

VOL. III. E

the whole matter. The lad was sympathetic, and
worked himself into the opinion that Mr La Touche
had been very badly treated. " I thought there was
something in the wind," that youth observed, "and
that Mr Glascott was encouraging the affair. Dear
me, what a mistaken old gentleman he has turned out
to be ! I suppose I can't do anything."

"Nothing," returned Stephen, gratefully; "the rejection
by Mr Glascott has for reason another matter
besides a present lack of cash. Don't say anything
about it, but it is that which has upset me so entirely.
Like a good fellow," he continued, "just stay a day
here. I want to go up to town directly, and so start
by the steamer which crosses to Southampton at midnight;
it will look too abrupt if we both go off tonight."


Yes," returned Mr Willoughby. " Besides, I have
to call at Brydone and make my adieux, as in duty
and in pleasure bound. I'll manage the packing and
paying, and all that. One thing, I suppose the lady
is all right?"

As firm as a rock. We both suspect mischief from
home, which is the reason why I am going at once to
have an interview with my father; but understand,
Willoughby, a valid reason does exist for Mr Glascott's
refusing to entertain my addresses to his ward. I am
not earning sufficient at the bar to entitle me to marryat
present ; and Miss Clavering's fortune is only three
thousand pounds. Under the most favourable circumstances,
we would have to wait."

Three thousand pounds ! " ejaculated Mr Willoughby.
" I understood that Mr Glascott is a very rich
man. Why, he made over an estate worth two thousand
a-year to Mr Clavering on his marriage, only a
short time ago."

Quite true, Willoughby. Mr Clavering has always
been regarded as Mr Glascott's heir, and people don't
often part with their possessions in their own lifetime ;
this was a generous act. Mr Glascott has said that he
would dower Miss Clavering on her wedding-day if
she marry to his approbation."

Mr Willoughby here indulged in a prolonged low
whistle. " That looks very like selecting the recipient
without much regard to the lady," he said at length.
Still, I wonder he was not glad to secure you."

Mr La Touche clapped his friend on the back. " The
money be hanged ! " he said ; " neither of us cares
about that so much,  but I fancy all chance of the
dower has vanished entirely, seeing that Mr Glascott
is going to take a wife unto himself."

Never ! " gasped George Willoughby. " You never
mean to tell me that he is going to marry that little
Le Geyt girl.

No ; comfort yourself, my dear young friend. That
damsel, I take it, is more the captive of your own bow
and spear, figuratively speaking.

Um ! He appeared to look upon her with the
greatest appreciation," returned Mr Willoughby.
Who on earth, then, is he going to marry ? "

You must have met the lady at my father's house ;

she was on a visit to us last year. Do you remember
Miss Fanshawe ? "

Miss Fanshawe ! of course,  a handsome cold kind
of a girl. Why, I thought  unless I have dreamt it
that she was destined for your eldest brother. Yes,
she was first pointed out to me as Mr La Touche's
inamorata" exclaimed George Willoughby.

Fate has given her another destiny," returned Mr
La Touche. " I only heard this an hour ago from Miss
Clavering ; but it is true, as it appears Mr Glascott
announced the fact to his wards before the Claverings
left. That's all I know."

Mr Willoughby was so utterly amazed at this intelligence,
that his powers of speculation were quite
paralysed. All he could exclaim was, " My gracious !
what next ? " He was too well-bred to declare his
opinion that Mr Glascott was personally far preferable
to Mr La Touche ; but as he was a very young man, the
difference in age of the contracted parties staggered
him completely. At last he said, " I suppose the
Fanshawe pater and mater have managed this little
affair."

Stephen thought not. " It was quite possible that
the Fanshawe authorities had not been consulted," he
said. His own opinion was that the whole thing had
been arranged at Yarnee.

"Well," said Mr Willoughby, "I shall go up to
Brydone for lunch tomorrow, and hear the news.
Miss Clavering won't, of course, hint at her own
affairs, and I daresay those of Miss Fanshawe will

turn out to be a very convenient topic of conversation.
Mr Glascott does not often come in to lunch, so you
see, I shall have a Ute-a-Ute"

Fortunate fellow ! If you see your way to do so,
just tell Miss Clavering that I intend to write to Mr
Glascott after I have seen my father. And, by the
way, George, start homewards tomorrow, or, at latest,
the day after : you know, I am responsible to your
father for your return."

Don't distress yourself about me, sir. I shall just
go over and have another look at St Oswin's in the
morning, and be ready to cross tomorrow night.
Don't you think you had better have some dinner now,
and prepare for the voyage ? Why, it is past seven
o'clock."

They dined, and Mr La Touche parted with his
'friend in somewhat better spirits. It is certain that
the prospect of the coming family fray did not discompose
him : it was possible that he even derived
some exhilaration from the prospect of the conflict.

At any rate," thought he, " we will all understand
in what light certain matters are to be regarded for
the future ; and if my father insists upon the introduction
of Madame Heine into the family, he can
marry her himself."

Stephen had made up his mind to recommend this
course to his father. It would be a most trenchant
way of getting rid of a difficulty, and as for Marcia
and his brother Percival, they must face the inevitable.
He had, however, with the usual masculine confidence,

quite overlooked the possibility of Madame Heine's
declining to view the position in this (to him) very
convenient light.

He arrived in London some fifteen hours after his
departure from Jersey. Mr La Touche was at home,
and so was Aunt Marcia. Percival was not expected
to be home till dinner-time. Stephen then arranged
his plan of action.

I am going to my chambers now," he said to his
aunt, after they had lunched ; " and I shall not return
till dinner, which, I suppose, is at the usual hour."

Yes, seven o'clock ; we have no company coming
to-day  not a soul," replied Marcia.

All the better : after dinner I want to speak to my
father in the little back drawing-room. You can be
present. Aunt Marcia, if you like. I merely want to
understand the meaning of the last letter he thought
proper to address to me ; but I wish you to be good
enough to keep the girls out of the way."

Marcia opened her mouth in order to elicit some
information anent this proposal, but a look on her
nephew's face reminded her that discretion was an
excellent quality. Stephen departed hastily to his
chambers, and when there, after examining his letters
and papers and conferring with his clerk, he indited
an epistle which was not according to strict business
precedent to Madame Heine.

It was merely to the effect that he had received a
communication respecting her business from Messrs
Jostling & Link, of Coblentz, which he deemed highly

satisfactory. Would she kindly call on the morrow
during the forenoon to discuss certain points ? He
had to apologise for so long an absence ; but he felt
sure that he might count upon her congratulations on
the event of his just having made the engagement
which some day, he trusted, would result in a happy
marriage, &c.

Having written and posted this missive, he walked
into Temple Gardens and out to the river-side. The
Embankment was at that time only just commenced,
and the neighbourhood was untidy, unkempt, and depressing.
Here and there leaves were falling ; the sky
matched the mud, which were both of a brown leaden
colour, and the river looked forlorn and wretched.
Sere autumn is nowhere so uninviting as in the neigh -
irbourhood of the Thames when the days are dull.

Still, it was gratifying to see that town was filling
fast : cabs with luggage hastening from one point of
London to another ; some thoroughfares well crowded ;
professional men hurrying to and fro,  all proclaimed
that the long vacation was nearly at an end, and that
multitudes were returning to hard everyday work.

Work was the all-absorbing subject with Stephen
now. Could he secure that, all would go well ; but he
must double what he was already engaged in, and
secure briefs and find opportunity to do them justice,
even if too many should arrive at one time. He had
known what it was to be weeks with scarcely any
employment, and then to be overwhelmed with a
quantity of work, part of which he had been compelled

to transfer elsewhere. This was to be readjusted. He
would work day and night now, and nothing should
come amiss to his hand. The briefs might come in
showers  if they only would come. Love had made
him powerful for all. Perhaps there is no stronger
tonic than an all-round, united opposition to the said
love in the abstract. To paraphrase somewhat the
words of Burke, " It but nerves our hand and sharpens
our skill  our antagonist is our helper."

So felt Stephen La Touche as he pondered over his
affairs, and came to the conclusion that his worst
foes were they of his own household. One thing comforted
him, and that was that he now ran no risk of
being juggled, by implication or otherwise, into any
engagement with Madame Heine ; the note he had so
lately written would settle all that.

It was however possible, he thought, that his father
or Percival, or even Marcia, might have given the lady
some intimation that he aspired to a closer intimacy
than was warranted by his professional duties : the
like has been done in all places of the earth, and
will be done until the love of the root of all evil is
weeded out of the world.

So be it ; and now Stephen placed this phase of the
situation before himself in its strongest bearing. " If
one or all of my people have told lies, let them clear
themselves as they best can. I will be no party to
their exculpation."

Then he turned homewards. It is as well, perhaps,
that we are not compelled to utter all we think.

On entering the drawing-room before dinner,
Stephen, rather to his surprise, found Colin Braggart
perched on the edge of one of the sofas, staring
into an album of photographs. He was, however,
glad to meet his cousin ; told him that he had only
just returned from the Channel Islands, and therefore
was not aware that he was to have the pleasure
of seeing him at dinner.

I don't suppose you were," replied Colin. " I
called very late in the afternoon to apprise my uncle
that I have secured a small permanent employment in
Ireland, and Aunt Marcia was so delighted that she
pressed me to remain to dinner. She said there would
be nobody but you in addition to the usual party; and,
as I like you the best of the whole lot, I decided to
' remain."

Colin was beginning to give some information concerning
his appointment, and had got as far as the
statement that it was in the west of Ireland, when
Percival La Touche entered the room.

The greetings interchanged between the brothers
were of the coldest. A little niddle-noddlinoj bow,
which seemed to say, " So you are back again," on the
part of the elder, and a reflexion iced to frostiness
on the part of the younger, .was the only recognition
interchanged between them.

Colin was dreadfully scandalised. He knew of no
overt quarrel between his cousins, nor was there any
such thing. But the smouldering fire of distrust and
suspicion was only waiting for an opportunity of bursting

forth ; and though Mr M'Taggart was not astute,
he could discern, from the expression on the faces of
both these men, that fierce hatred burned in their
hearts. It was a relief when Marcia and two of the
girls entered the room.

Stephen had seen his father immediately on his
arrival. The latter gave him two fingers, saying ashe
did so, " Come back all right ? Um ! ah, I am just
going out ; can't stay to talk now," consequently, at
that time it was hopeless to seek an interview with
him. Marcia had met her nephew cordially enough ;
but she would have done that even if she had abused
him roundly not five minutes before. To be all
things to all men was part of Marcia's creed ; she
looked upon this as the inevitable tactic in the superintendence
of a household. She would have hugged his
Satanic majesty himself, if by so doing she might
avoid the onus of a row. There was a delightful uncertainty
in all this,  nobody ever knew exactly what
Aunt Marcia would do in the event of a general disturbance
in the family. There was a decided opinion,
certainly, that she would side with Percival ; but this
was toned down with the excuse that Aunt Marcia
lead Percival's board and lodging to retain in the
domestic hearth, and that in taking part with him,
she was only speaking ex officio. It was pretty well
understood that she dared not oppose her eldest
nephew, whilst the possibility of his emigrating from
Hinton Square might be the result of such action.

It was natural, from this point of view, that Marcia

should school herself into the conviction that her duty
lay in persuading Stephen to court Madame Heine.
The use of a large jointure," and twenty thousand
pounds down, were advantages not to be lightly passed
over by a younger son of the house of La Touche.
So the aunt concluded that, as an astute economist,
she must adhere to the side of her brother, and by
so doing, secure the approbation of the family forevermore.


They descend to dinner. The conversation during
that meal is very desultory, and often inclines towards
the inane.

Colin M'Taggart talks vigorously to Fanny; Percival
anathematises the cook at intervals ; Marcia, byway
of being allegorical  so the old gentleman thought
declares that there is a storm in the air.

All, however, seem in concert, in some undercurrent
of perception, to make Stephen understand that
he is playing the role of black sheep in the domestic
circle.

This by no means daunts the culprit : he eats his
dinner, helps himself to the best wine, such as his
father drinks, and prepares for battle.

CHAPTER Y

FATHER AND SONS.

In No. 9 Hinton Square there existed upstairs
a small room at the back of the large drawing-room,
cosily furnished, and which, by some polite fiction,
was known as the book-room.

It was usual with the elder gentleman to retire to
this apartment immediately after dinner, where his
coffee was brought to him ; and where, beneath the
shade of a lamp specially dedicated to his use, he
scanned the evening paper, or occasionally slumbered.


Private interviews were also held in this retreat ;
but coffee and newspaper must have both been well
digested before any one should venture into the
presence of Mr La Touche.

After waiting the usual time, Stephen said to his
cousin, "Keep Percival here if you can; I want to
speak to my father privately." He then went out and
rapped at the book-room door, and entered at the
moment permission to do so was accorded. " I want a

few words with you, sir," he said, looking his father
very straightly in the eyes.

The old gentleman was so taken by surprise that he
could only exclaim, " Um ! ah, certainly ; what is it
that you want ? "

Stephen drew a chair opposite to his father, and
seated himself with just a little show of deliberation.
This nettled Mr La Touche : he could stand a good
deal from Percival, but the younger sons must be
made to recognise their positions as younger sons.
Consequently, this parent thought it behoved him to
be abrupt and rude.

Say what you have to say, and be done with it.
Again, what is it you want ? "

An explanation, if you please, of this passage in
your letter which was addressed to me at Coutances :
I will never give my consent to your marriage with
Miss Clavering.' "

No ; I never will ! " blurted out the old gentleman,
very red in the face. " What do you mean by explanation
? The sense, I take it, reads clearly enough."

Undoubtedly ; but the reason for the text is what
I want to get at. In the first place, have you any
objection to tell me how you knew that I aspired to
marry Miss Clavering ? "

Mr La Touche knew right well that it was to his
eldest son that he was indebted for this information,
but he dared not say so. It was evident from the
apprehensive manner in which he looked towards the
door that he suspected Percival to be within ear-shot.

Just then Fanny struck up the " Soldiers' Chorus,"
from ' Faust,' on the piano in the large drawing-room,
which was evidently a pleasing sound in the father's
ear, and Stephen recognised Colin's strong bass voice
in full swing with the air. Thus, for a similar reason,
the denizens of the book-room were well pleased.

As if suddenly inspired, Mr La Touche said, " The
information came, in the first place, from Miss Fan-share
in the letter to Aunt Marcia, in which she
announced her approaching marriage to Mr Glascott.
But what matter who said this ? Why do you lay so
much stress upon the report ? "

I ask because you could scarcely have written that
refusal unless some information had been previously
given you ; but what I want to ascertain more particularly
is the reason which induced you to withhold
your consent beforehand."

The reason ! Of course you know you are intended
to marry Madame Heine. I told you that before you
left town."

But you surely must remember, sir, that I gave
you to understand at the time that it was utterly impossible
that I should do this," returned Stephen, putting
a strong command upon himself. " I mean the lady
no disrespect ; but I neither want her money nor herself,
and I am very sure that she would not dream of
marrying me, even if I asked her. The idea is absurd !
Madame Heine is at least twelve years my senior."

"Not so absurd as you imagine, sir," retorted the
elder man, snappishly. " I don't speak out of book.

The matter has been tested in a very satisfactory
manner, and I am able to tell you that the contrary is
the case. Madame Heine is awaiting a declaration
from you."

Why ! what on earth have I done to make the
woman expect that ? " ejaculated poor Stephen, taken
off his balance at the moment in his surprise at the
cool mendacity of this statement. " Unless some one
or other has been representing my sentiments "

A rustle behind him caused him to turn his head.
There stood Percival, with a light coat thrown over
his evening dress. Though he was evidently going
out, he remained standing, as if he intended to take
some part in the conversation.

Perceiving this, Stephen started to his feet. " Kindly
retire, will you ? " said he. " I am speaking to my
father on private business, and require no witness."

A moment," answered Percival, with a sneer ; " you
speak loud, and I could not help hearing "

You were listening at the door ; it is an old trick
of yours. Never mind  go on."

That you were disclaiming any pretensions to the
hand of Madame Heine," continued Percival, with an
unabashed front. " I want to tell you that if that lady
is under any misconception, the fault is mine."

Your fault ! How ? In what manner ? " exclaimed
Stephen, now more puzzled than before.

Seeing the attention that you paid Madame Heine
when she first came to London, I very naturally
thought you were aiming at matrimony in that

direction," Percival avowed ; " and after your departure,
the lady was so dejected and downcast "

Stuff and nonsense ! " thundered Stephen. " As
Madame Heine's legal adviser, she may have been
anxious to see me now and then on business ; but as to
her being dejected at my absence, you know very well
that the thing is preposterous. Wliat is your object
in making such an assertion, I would like to know ? "

The object of pleasing a lovely woman in the first
place, and the object of securing her worldly goods
for a younger son of the family in the second," replied
Percival, with cool assurance. " I discovered that this
charming client was very much interested in my legal
brother. Consequently I did my best to secure the
prize ; so I gave her to understand that I believe
you entertain what the French call a grancU passion
for her, and I certainly assured her that there was no
rival in the way."

The indelicacy of this proceeding grated most acutely
on Stephen's nerves ; but he took consolation in
the remembrance that Percival was noted for strict
inaccuracy in those of his assertions by which a certain
point was to be gained. He therefore thought it
better to avoid recrimination, and in its stead, to shoot
off his Parthian arrow ; so he replied very slowly, " It
is a pity that your good offices should be so utterly
thrown away : Madame Heine is aware by this time
that I am engaged to Miss Clavering. I have already
written to claim her congratulations."

Both Percival and his father were so taken

by surprise, that for a moment they were utterly
dumb.

Percival was the first to recover himself. Rushing
up to his brother with a wild cry, he declared that, as
long as he lived, he should never be the husband of
Willina Clavering. The language he used in addition
was frightful to hear. In the vehemence of his rage
he let it escape him that the lady in question had
rejected his own suit, and that with a contempt for
which he would never forgive her.

You are a fool ! " retorted Stephen, roused in his
turn to violent anger  " yes, a fool to tell your own
secret. This is the first time that I have heard that
you have been rejected by this lady, whom  allow me
to tell you  you are unworthy to name. Rejected
you ! Of course she did ; but know, I never heard a
hint of the matter from her."

The old gentleman at last managed to get a word
in. " Do you understand, sir," he said,  " do you understand
that I positively refuse to sanction this engagement
? " Here he looked at Percival, who nodded
approvingly.

I do understand, and I am sorry for it, sir," the
young man replied. " The position is hard to bear,
for Mr Glascott, as Miss Clavering's guardian, is also
equally averse to this engagement : his objections are
stronger even than your own, and they are certainly
much more valid."

Mr Glascott objects, does he ? " said the elder Mr
La Touche ; " on what grounds, may I ask ? "

VOL. III. G

I hardly like to say," quoth Stephen.

"On account of your want of fortune," suggested
Percival ; " very natural : I am glad to hear that Mr
Glascott has demonstrated so much good sense."

My impecuniosity is one objection, it is true  but
it is not the insuperable one. I had better tell the
truth at once. Mr Glascott looks upon our family
very much as one composed of lunatics and idiots,
and he has not scrupled to let me know his opinion.
His ward overlooks this drawback on my account,"
continued Stephen, with a provoking air of exultation.

And do you mean to say, that in the face of these
objections  objections most insulting to your family 
you persist in affiancing yourself to this girl ?  a girl
without fortune, too," continued the old man, white
with rage ; " for now that Mr Glascott is going to
marry Miss Fanshawe, you must see that Miss Clavering's
chance of fortune is nil  have you reflected on
that, sir ? "

I have ; Miss Clavering and I are promised and
bound for life and death."

Percival and his father exchanged glances. Stephen
had penetrated to the pith of the affair, then, and it
lay in a nutshell.

When Marcia received the announcement of Miss
Fanshawe's engagement to Mr Glascott, the financiers
of the family at once saw that in the event of this
marriage. Miss Clavering had little chance of inheriting
a fortune from her guardian. Whereupon Percival
demanded of his father that he should insist upon

Stephen's marrying Madame Heine, or, on his refusal todo
that  or, more correctly speaking, on his refusal to
solicit the lady  the alternative should be immediate
expulsion from Hinton Square. In this manner Percival
sought to pay off what he deemed to be his own
bad treatment at the hands of Willina Clavering.
Mortified vanity, spite, and a raging jealousy of his
brother, pulled the strings of his action against Stephen
; and of the game of cross-purposes which was so
thoroughly played out at Pinnacles, Mr La Touche
and Marcia knew never a word.

It was not high-minded, but it was perhaps natural,
under these circumstances, that Stephen should refer
to Percival's rejection by Miss Clavering.

At any rate," he said, turning to his brother, " it
ill becomes you to object to my alliance with Miss
Clavering. By your own admission a few moments
ago, you made it clear that you have paid your addresses
to her, and that she has declined to entertain
them, acting in the matter entirely without reference
to Mr Glascott."

Percival looked rather confused, and hesitated to
reply. At length he said, " The cases are quite different.
/ can afford to pick and choose ; you must marry
money."

You seem to forget," replied Stephen, " that when
you addressed Miss Clavering, she was reputed to inherit
a good fortune from her guardian. For this you
threw over Miss Fanshawe, I rather think. You maybe
vastly clever, Percival ; at the same time, it is obvious

that between these two stools you have come to
the ground."

Silence ! " screamed the old man, addressing himself
more especially to the impecunious son. " I will
have none of this unseemly bickering here. Tell me
what are Mr Glascott's reasons for refusing his consent
to your marriage with his cousin."

I have already stated them, sir. Mr Glascott most
decidedly alleged that the insanity inherent in our
family was a sufficient reason for declining my proposals
for his ward. These objections, he said, were
strengthened by his opinion that this insanity has
been engendered and propagated by the avarice which
has caused so many of our forefathers to marry near
relatives for the sake of preserving money in the
family."

He said this ? "

He did, sir. Mr Glascott apologised for inflicting
this bitter truth upon me ; but he thought it best to
acquaint me that he entertains a strong prejudice
against all persons who may be liable to insanity. In
the interests of his ward, he in consequence declined
my proposals."

Your want of fortune was, I suppose," said the old
man, " another objection in the case ? "

Certainly not. Lacking the primary objection,
my want of fortune was regarded as a hindrance, but
not as a bar to the engagement. I am proud to say
that, personally, Mr Glascott has no objection to me,
rather the contrary."

"After Mr Glascott's insulting and most exaggerated
assertions," interrupted Percival, turning to his
father, "you cannot do less than insist upon this
engagement being at once rescinded."

One thing I want to know," said Mr La Touche ;
did you not remonstrate against this accusation ?
Did you not, for the sake of your family, deny it in
toto  or, at any rate, admit nothing but nervous affections
? Did you not do this ? "

How could I, sir ? Mr Glascott was aware, from
some unnamed authority, that your own eldest brother
is in confinement at this moment. When he was at
Pinnacles, he saw Aunt Arabella, and he must know
Miss Clavering's opinion of that member of our
family."

Here Percival made use of such a coarse and insulting
remark with regard to Mrs Kemble, that Stephen
could no longer restrain himself. Starting to his feet,
and rushing towards the offender, he exclaimed, " You
cowardly sneak ! nobody can obtain either peace or
justice when you come in the way. What right have
you to push yourself in here ? Take yourself off this
moment, or I will kick you down-stairs."

As Percival entirely relied on the moral support of
his father, he maintained his ground, albeit with some
internal misgiving.

The younger brother waited a moment, and then,
without more ado, he twisted his fingers in the fold of
Percival's correct evening tie, and with one rapid
movement dragged him out upon the landing, and

shoved him down three steps of the staircase in the
twinkling of an eye. An angle of the wall, against
which Percival was brought np, saved him from bodily
harm, and by the time he had regained his breath,
Stephen had left him and returned to the book-room.

The noise attending this feat brought both Aunt
Marcia and Colin M'Taggart on the scene of action.
Fearful that some serious mischief might occur. Miss
La Touche quickly followed her nephew into the book-room,
with the aim of inducing both its occupants to
postpone their discussion until a more convenient
season. The raised tone of their voices, and the expressions
which made themselves heard from within,
testified to the sad fact that both father and son had
come to a foolish and open quarrel.

Will you write at my dictation, and rescind your
stupid engagement ? " the old man was saying as
Marcia entered.

I have told you before that I will not, sir."

Then leave my house this moment. Never enter
it again until you engage to submit to my authority.
Once more, will you or will you not attend to my
wishes ? " The old man shook with passion, and
pushed Marcia roughly aside as she ventured to
approach him.

Stephen stood silent ; then he said, " I will quit the
house, as you direct, and at once," and he turned to
leave the room.

Meanwhile Colin had not been useless. As soon ashe
had recovered a little from his unexpected shock.

Percival attempted to return up-stairs, with the intention
of invading the book-room ; but his cousin was
too quick for him.

No, no, my man," said he, " yell just bide where
ye are, or maybe ye had better go off to your evening-party
; but in your present state of mind ye are best
away from your brother."

Let me pass," said Percival, with great dignity, " or
it shall be the worse for you."

Poor creature ! " retorted Colin. " I could, if I liked,
pound you to a jelly ; but ye are angered now, so I
take no notice of your threats. Wait a wee, while I
call Miss Fanny to arrange your tie ; it has got to the
back of your neck."

At this moment Stephen, as white as death, came
out of the book-room and ascended the stairs in order
to get to his own apartment. Looking over the banisters,
he said, " Colin, may I ask you to call a cab to be
here for me immediately ? "

Colin nodded his head, and then looked askance at
Marcia, who had come out on the landing. " You
had better do so," said she ; " and, Percival, don't go
near your father now, or he will have a fit."

"What had I better do?" said Percival, who was
really a little alarmed.

Make yourself fit to be seen, and go out to whatever
your evening engagement is. Above all, do keep
out of Stephen's way."
Is he really going ? "
It appears so ; he is gone up-stairs to make ready.

Keep off the stair-case, for Colin may get a cab immediately.
It is as well that the girls and the servants
should know as little of this scandal as possible,
for scandal it is," continued Marcia, severely, "and
very disgraceful to all concerned."

Percival made no reply to this, and immediately
retired to his room. Then the hall-door bell rang,
and Colin M'Taggart, descending from some vehicle,
entered the house. At that moment Stephen came
down the upper flight of stairs with a small portmanteau
in his hand. Marcia intercepted him on the
landing.

This is miserable work, Stephen," she said. " I do
wish you could make up your mind to marry Madame
Heine : it would save no end of trouble."

Stephen smiled. "If you would stand my friend.
Aunt Marcia, use your influence with the other members
of the family. My father and brother are as
good subjects to work upon as I am ; but remember,
I am engaged to Miss Clavering, and I shall now
proclaim the fact wherever I go."

Are you really going to live away from us ? Think
of me a little : when Lawrence sails for India, I shall
have only Andrew to fall back upon for the dinner-parties,
and who is going to take the girls about if
you go ? " inquired Marcia, in sore dismay.

I can't say. Be kind enough to send everything
of mine down to my chambers tomorrow ; I shall live
in them entirely for the future. Good-night, Aunt
Marcia; good-night, Colin, and thank you."

No, no," said the latter ; " I am coming with you,
Cousin Stephen. I will just wish my uncle goodnight."


"Never mind that," said Marcia; "I will make
your excuses. Yes, go with Stephen ; and if you have
time, call upon me tomorrow morning."

So they drove away ; and Marcia, not venturing to
return to her brother, sat and pondered over these
matters in the desert of the large drawing-room. The
girls had, fortunately, gone next door to practise with
some of their young friends, and so, for a time. Miss
La Touche was not likely to be disturbed. It was a
great relief to her, however, to hear her brother ring
the bell, and shortly afterwards a significant clink,
announcing that some refreshment had been ordered
and brought to the book-room, saved her further
anxiety.

Then Miss La Touche relinquished all household
cares, and took to wondering what would be the end
of the affair which had just taken place. Would
Percival, she inquired of herself,  would Percival,
having succeeded in ejecting his brother, and losing
both Miss Clavering and Lillian Fanshawe,  would hebe
likely to square matters comfortably, and pay his
addresses to Madame Heine ? There was so much
awkwardness in this matter, for Marcia's conscience
pricked her as she remembered how often, in order to
please Percival, she had of late invited the German
lady to the house, and had more than once intimated
how deeply her legal adviser was interested in her

welfare. It was very, very annoying: why had no
pressure been brought to bear on Lawrence or Andrew ?

The answer was not far to seek. Lawrence, heavy,
silent, and impassable, being merely on leave, occupied
his time and took his pleasures as it might please
him. He looked upon his father's house pretty much
as a comfortable club for the time being, Marcia
acting as a good housekeeper and manager, but also asa
deuced bad secretary of the establishment. Andrew
was too young as yet to be included in the matrimonial
speculations of the family ; still it was a pity,
thought Marcia, that so much good money should be
suffered to dribble away into other channels.

Then Miss La Touche, unsatisfied with her own
family programme, took to pondering upon the matters
of Lillian Fanshawe. These she soon disposed of. Percival
had made a mistake in not securing that damsel.
Marcia had done her best and her duty in trying to
bring these two together : her endeavours had failed,
and Lillian, to escape from Pinnacles, had elected to
take up with old Glascott ; it was hard upon Miss
Clavering, and Marcia felt for her.

Miss La Touche fell asleep with this last piece of
benevolence in her heart, and almost on her lips.

And Madame Heine,  how did that good lady
comport herself in the interview which she punctually
observed at the chambers of Mr Stephen La Touche
on the following morning ?

It was balm to that gentleman to receive her, bright
and tranquil as a mellow autumn day. A friendly

pressure of the hand and a littk confidential nod
were also very reassuring signs. The lady most certainly
was no party to the machinations of his family,
and, in consequence, Mr Stephen recovered his spirits,
and felt doubly ready for work.

No remark was made, owing to the presence of the
managing clerk of the firm of solicitors under whose
instructions the barrister was acting in the affairs of
Madame Heine. In consequence, strict business was
the order of the hour.

The lawyer departed, and then the lady, in a kind,
simple manner, tendered her congratulations on the
matrimonial engagement of her legal adviser. " It
was so pleasant to hear," she said, in her German-english,
" that one who had so good been, and of his
family so much admired, was now to enter upon a
happy marriage. When was this to be ? and had
the pleasure already to her been given the lady to
have seen ? "

Stephen replied in proper form, and thanked the
lady for her goodwill. He, however, judged it
prudent to add that his father would not consent
to the match, and that he must trust to time and
sufficient work before he could be entitled to marry
a wife.

Ah ! for that reason, the lady not much has
got?"

Not at present. The truth is, Madame Heine, I
have quarrelled with my family over this matter, and
I shall not live at home for the future."

Ah ! wrong thing ; your people make stupid out
of themselves. You English want so much  so you
seem never enough to have. Well, well, you work
on and trust. Some day all will turn out to you for
good."

So saying, the kindly lady took her leave, and
Stephen felt very thankful that no delusion had
affected this honest simple soul. If he were at fault
in this estimation, his client certainly bore her disappointment
bravely, and made no sign ; but he
preferred to think that Percival had only treated
him with his characteristic duplicity, and that different
idioms had also played their part in mystifying
his client's appreciation of the adulations which, it
was said, had been offered to her in his name. It
was clear that Madame Heine had received these
compliments, when she understood them, strictly en
avocat. Stephen had won one cause for her, by dint
of strict attention and unflinching pertinacity, and it
was but natural that both his client and his own
family should glorify the event.

Now he threw himself into hard and all-absorbing
work, then arranged his chambers, dined in the evening
with Colin M'Taggart, and afterwards accompanied
that worthy youth to witness a Shakespearian
play.

The preparations for Miss Fanshawe's wedding were
now complete. Lady Hautenbas had done all things
well, and Mr Fanshawe had made one last appeal
to his daughter's sincerity before he consented to

perform the service which was to tie the nuptial
knot.

There was no difference in the young lady's sentiments.
She considered, and rightly, that this marriage
was good for her and for her family. " If Miss
Clavering were made unhappy by it she would have
herself to thank," quoth Miss Fanshawe. " Why, many
women of mature age had to put up with a mother-in-law
years their junior, and that, as a matter of course,
in the opinion of their father ; and what was Willina
Clavering's wrong in comparison to that ? "

Mr Fanshawe listened, and said no more. The only
satisfaction that he could draw for his pains was in
the fact that the girl had manifested, both by deed
and word, some affection for himself. " I know you
are naturally good and kind, papa," said she, " and
what you now say increases my respect for you.

Come to me whenever you can escape from ma

Pinnacles ; Mr Glascott likes you well," and then she
put her arms round him and kissed him with real
love.

It had been feared that Colonel Leppell would not
be in sufficient good spirits to attend the wedding and
give Miss Fanshawe away. Not a bit of it ! Ralph
rose like the phoenix to the occasion, declaring that
the ceremony taking place out of his own county,
quite nullified any scruple he might otherwise have
entertained at attending a festive assembly so soon
after his wife's death.

This," said he, " is a very exceptional case ; duty

owing to friendship ; the thing got up at my house,
and with my late wife's sanction. If she could look
upon us  haw ! poor Adelaide ! "

Here the Colonel broke down ; but he meant to intimate
that the late Mrs Leppell would have highly
approved of his intention of acting in the coming
ceremony as father of Miss Fanshawe, and so bestowing
her on Mr Glascott.

It was decreed that Mary and her sisters should
decline the invitation to the wedding, satisfying
themselves that the family would be properly represented
by Colonel Leppell ; and the bride-elect put a
decided veto upon a proposition which her father had
made to invite Stephen La Touche to be of the number
of the wedding-guests. " She had no objection to the
young man," Miss Lillian declared ; " but there were
reasons which forbade her to entertain the idea. He
was not on good terms with his family, and as Marcia
La ToUche was to be present, there might be some
awkwardness. ISTo ; Mr Stephen was better employed
in London."

Do as you like," said the rector ; " but surely
Marcia La Touche is not to be one of the bridesmaids
? "

Oh, no ! Etta and Emma, with Miss Clavering, are
to be the bridesmaids. Marcia accepts the invitation
as an old friend. Mr Clavering will be present ; and
young Mr Willoughby is to be groomsman."

Stephen La Touche would have been more suitable
for that post than the boy Willoughby," said the

rector ; " but I wonder what makes Miss La Touche
accept the invitation as an old friend. Eather out of
character for her  eh, Lillian ? "

The fact of the matter was that Marcia was very
anxious to get inside the dwelling-place of Lady
Hautenbas ; for although Lillian had issued out of
that mansion to pay her visits in Hinton Square, and
had also returned to it from the house of the La
Touches, Lady Hautenbas had never left a card for
Miss La Touche, nor - extended the slightest civility
to the merchant's family in any shape or way.

Lady Hautenbas meant no offence by this. She
belonged to an inner ring in the great circle of the
London visiting world. Nobody that she knew had
ever met the La Touches, or had even heard of them
very respectable people, no doubt ; but London had
become so large that it was impossible to visit everyone,
&c., &c.

The house in Bluvayne Gardens was given' up to
the Fanshawe relations for the wedding-day, its owner
being too greatly satisfied with the matrimonial prospects
of her niece to take exception to any of the
Fanshawe guests. That lady was in high feather 
everything was in the best style, and everybody was
received with the utmost politeness and attention ;
and when all were assembled, the ceremony took
place which made Lillian and Mr Glascott husband
and wife.

At its conclusion Colonel Leppell drew a deep
breath, and felt convinced that a great stroke of

business had been thoroughly accomplished by this
means. The hearty manner in which the bridegroom
had thanked him, not only for his presence on the
occasion, but also for his previous good offices, was
truly balm in Gilead to the Colonel's soul. He convinced
himself that this was really the crowning work
of his own astute prevision; that by his address all
his obligations to Mr Glascott were discharged  obligations
which had rankled in his mind for many a
day ; he was " quits " now, and he rejoiced greatly 
for even yet, at the bottom of his heart, he held a
vague, suspicious, unreasoning dislike to Everard
Glascott.

Miss La Touche and Willina had come together,
and they exchanged a few words. There was some
very evident restraint in the intercourse of these
two ladies, as if each one of them surmised what
was passing in the mind of the other. At length
Miss Clavering boldly inquired after Stephen.

'you are aware that we are engaged. Miss La
Touche," said the young lady, " and that we maintain
a regular correspondence. Still, I wish to tell you
how much I regret that your nephew should have
been expelled from his father's house on my account.
I am exceedingly sorry for this ; but, unfortunately,
it seems to have been the only alternative left to
him."

Marcia was very much embarrassed how to reply.
Though she was compelled to relinquish all hope of
securing Madame Heine as a niece, she still threw

her influence in the scale held by Percival. It
ao'opravated her also to find Willina determining to
speak of her engagement as a fact admitting no
question, and a fact, moreover, which was quite outside
La Touche legislation; but some reply was imperative,
so she said 

The whole affair has distressed me very much.
My brother has done his best to secure Stephen a
competence, and a good position in life. He is disappointed,
of course, at not receiving even thanks for
his exertions. I hope that some day things will come
round satisfactorily, but at present I cannot see how
this can be achieved."

Willina bowed at this equivocal speech, but she
said no more. She had gained her object  which
was to make Miss La Touche understand that, in
defiance of lack of consent on all sides, she was to
be recognised as the affianced wife of Stephen La
Touche.

This was quite as well. Miss Clavering knew
something, by this time, of the powers of jugglery
possessed by some of the members of the family to
which Miss La Touche belonged ; it was therefore
prudent that her own views should be imparted with
the utmost decision and clearness of speech. It had
cost her an effort to address Marcia upon the subject ;
but the opportunity had come to her, and it was wise
to avail herself of the chance.

A handsome breakfast followed immediately upon
the ceremony  good wine, pleasant company, and

VOL. III. H

short speeches playing their respective parts in making
the whole a success.

In due time the newly married couple departed for
Southampton, en route for the Continent. Very little
feeling was manifested when the party broke up.
Francis Clavering took the bride's hand as she bade
him farewell, and expressed his gratification at her
now being one of his family circle ; but his manner
was formal, and a close observer would have imagined
that he was speaking under great restraint. Willina's
adieux to her guardian were affectionate, and she did
her best to be cordial to Mrs Glascott; but it was
apparent that the effort was somewhat a struggle betwixt
inclination and duty.

Lady Hautenbas managed to squeeze out a tear, but
she looked at the travelling-carriage, and was comforted
with style and speed.

So the party dispersed, every man and woman, to
their several homes. Lady Hautenbas rewarded herself
with a drive in the Park, and rejoiced in the fact
that there was now one female Fanshawe the less.
Willina Clavering went with her brother to a hotel,
where they remained until Frank had delivered a
lecture, and transacted some other scientific business.
She was, at the expiration of their stay, to proceed
with him to Tring, and pay a long visit there.

Stephen La Touche called at the hotel ; and he and
Willina had one happy uninterrupted morning together,
when they canvassed their plans and decided
their course of action. This visit was almost a stolen

pleasure, for Miss Clavering's brother was quite as
unfavourable to this match as was Mr Glascott ; and
as this gentleman was capable of making himself very
disagreeable when he chose to put his mind to it, Mr
La Touche had to place some restrictions upon his visits
and their length. However, the lovers were firmly
resolved to stand unflinchingly together, and patiently
abide the result.

Cousin Everard has promised me," said Willina,
that if we wait seven full years without changing
our minds  as if that were likely ?  he will give his
consent ; yes, sir, even if you are not better off than
you are now, which state of being, I may tell you for
your comfort, he does not think at all probable."

Stephen was delighted at the news. " How and
when did you contrive to gain this concession ? " he
inquired anxiously.

It was on the night he left to go to Pinnacles,"
Miss Clavering answered. " I think Cousin Everard
was softened at my offering to return to Brydone and
receive him and his wife when they should have completed
their wedding-tour. His own happiness  for
he worships that girl, Stephen  his own happiness,
perhaps, made him indulgent towards me ; at any rate,
he said, ' I don't approve of the La Touche connection,
but I respect Stephen ; so if you are both in the same
mind this time seven years, I will withdraw my objection
to your union. His sanity, or the reverse, will be
sufficiently tested by the probation.' "

Was that all ? "

Cousin Everard gave me leave to tell you this ; but
he declines to hold any further communication on the
subject at present."

And with this concession Stephen La Touche was
obliged to remain content.

I

CHAPTEE VI.

SHARP WORK.

Time sped on. It would seem that after a large amount
of change and excitement, coming all at once, a lull of
some years' duration was about to take place in the
fortunes of Willina Clavering.

Mr and Mrs Glascott returned in due course to
Brydone, and settled down at once into the regularity
of a country life. Willina remained there some
months ; but it soon became apparent to her that, by
her guardian's wife, her residence was regarded very
much as a stay upon sufferance. Mr Glascott, though
uniformly kind, managed, unconsciously, to let his
cousin feel that he was entirely independent of her
companionship, and that it would be a satisfaction to
him if she were settled in a house of her own. He
never said this much, but in a thousand indefinite
ways Willina was compelled to see that Brydone was
no longer a veritable home to her.

An opportunity presented itself within the year of
her guardian's marriage, which enabled Miss Clavering

to get free of this uncomfortable state of things,
and it was through the medium of no less a personage
than Marmaduke Leppell that the deliverance was
effected.

That young gentleman had completed his term of
imprisonment, and after his final escape from the
jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery, had gone immediately
to Hunter's Lodge, together with his wife,
where they were welcomed with open arms by Colonel
Leppell. It must be admitted that his detention in
durance vile, together with the chastening effect of
his mother's death, had considerably improved Duke
in every way. This improvement was so marked
that old Lady Asher had declared that it did her
good to see him again ; and Mrs " Botheroo " affirmed
that, now and then, it was possible for the leopard to
change his spots. All, however, to use the Colonel's
expression, combined to put the saddle on the right
horse. The secret of Marmaduke's redemption from
utter ruin lay in his possession of a loving, faithful
wife.

Willina had returned from Tring, where a son had
been born to the Claverings, and had gone to Hunter's
Lodge to report all about the grandson and to make
the acquaintance of the "Dukes,"  as this couple
were abbreviated in the family. In this way she
happened to be present when the future plans of
Marmaduke and his wife were being discussed in
conclave.

It will never do for my husband to be idle," Peggy

averred, " and nobody wants him to be reinstated in
the army. Unless there's any fighting going, Duke
is better out of that."

Marmaduke, urged by other reasons than she wot of,
supported this opinion. " I think," said he, " I should
like to have a small farm in Ireland, and breed horses.
It would be a congenial employment for me, and if I
did not make very much, I do not think it would be a
losing concern."

The Colonel liked the plan, but expressed an opinion
that it would be a lonely life for a young woman like
Peggy.

Nothing of the kind," returned that young lady ;
it would suit me exactly, and I think I know of a
place down west that we could have at once  a lovely
spot  Connemara way."

But nobody  no lady friend  would go there to
visit you," said the Colonel.

"I would gladly," interposed Willina. "Will you
take me as an inmate ? I should enjoy farm surroundings,
and I am so situated that a retired active life is
what I most desire," and she turned towards Peggy as
she spoke.

The latter was radiant with delight. " Will we take
you ? " she exclaimed ; " right gladly will we do that.
Come and live with us as our sister, and go and pay
your visits when you can stand the country no longer.
If you really can come, there is nothing we will not do
to make you happy  eh, Duke ? "

Duke, thus appealed to, warmly supported all that

his wife had advanced. " Come and try it," he said.
I see that you are not afraid of living in Ireland. I
rather think that you are one who will be kind and
good, and make it your business to behave well to the
people, and not insult them by mean tyrannies and
impertinences which, unfortunately, so many of the
English do. You are quite the person to conciliate
what people call a disaffected peasantry ; still, I warn
you, you will miss many comforts and every luxury if
you decide to come to us."

Willina knew this, but she was in earnest on the
matter, and ways and means would be easy of arrangement.
To get rid of Lillian Glascott she would
hazard much. How delightful was Peggy's v/arm,
frank manner, contrasted with the cold, ill-concealed
dislike of her guardian's wife.

It transpired from Stephen La Touche  who in some
remarkable manner found his way into Yarnee at that
time  that Colin M'Taggart had a small school
somewhere in the region wherein the " Dukes " proposed
to dwell. " They would find Colin a kind, trustworthy
friend," said Mr La Touche. " He would write
to him and ask him to supply all information about
farms in his neighbourhood, and he hoped to hear that
eventually his friends would be within hail of one another."
Mr Stephen was remarkably lucid when laying
down the .law on this matter. It would be well,
he thought, that Willina should be as near as possible
to his own cousin,  there was a soupgon of relationship

in the idea which was far from unfavourable ; besides
it would furnish him with the means of hearing of
Miss Clavering as well as hearing from that lady. The
more he thought of it, the more he felt persuaded that
his friends should dwell in the same locality. To
Colin it was something, Mr Stephen imagined, to be
"near the rose."

Marmaduke's improved demeanour, and the sorrow
he evinced at not seeing his mother before her death,
very much mollified the Viscount's ill opinion of his
grandson.

He and Peggy were invited to Hieover with Willina
Clavering, and Uncle Alick avowed that he had not
been so happy with his relations for many a day.
Stephen La Touche was also of the party, and it was
finally proposed by Lord Hieover, and warmly seconded
by Uncle Alick  when he discovered that it was Willina's
intention to reside with the " Dukes "  that all
the legal business consequent upon the occupation and
purchase of a farm in Ireland should be placed under
the control of that gentleman.

It was fortunate for Marmaduke that both his
grandfather and his uncle had fallen so readily into
his views, and were also unanimous in furthering the
same. He had feared that some pressure might have
been brought to bear, having for its object the intention
of reinstating him in the army, if. not in the same
regiment in which he had formerly served.

He could hardly bring himself to believe that these

relatives would so befriend him, had they not, by so
doing, an end of their own to serve. Was it possible
that they had got some inkling concerning his dealings
with his brother-officer. Cracky Winton, and were, inconsequence,
glad to shelve him quietly out of the
way ?

This opinion Duke rejected as soon almost as he
entertained it. Had either the Viscount or his uncle
had a suspicion of the truth, he would very soon have
heard of it ; and the secret was safe with his father
and the friend who had paid the money. Marmaduke
also felt persuaded that Mr Glascott would not enlighten
his wife on the matter ; though, on this head,
he had more than once since that marriage entertained
some misgiving.

His own cause of thankfulness lay in the fact that,
on his release from captivity, he had received a communication
from Mr Deare, Cracky Winton's guardian,
written in a friendly spirit, but calling upon him to
reject all idea of again entering the service.

He required a promise from Duke to that effect,
and intimated that if Mr Leppell would undertake
to quit the service, there would never be any fear
of molestation, either at the hands of Mr Deare himself,
or at those of the banking firm at Liverpool,
Messrs Firelight & Deare.

Thus, in a measure, compelled so to do, Marmaduke
had, in writing, subscribed to the terms on which Mr
Deare elected to preserve an inviolable silence in regard
to the affair of the cheque.

He was now haunted by a feeling of apprehension
that his grandfather might, on his part, require him to
re-enter his regiment as a condition of assisting him
once again in matters pecuniary.

This relative had insisted on the general proposition,
that to be imprisoned by the Court of Chancery for
abducting one of its wards was no social disgrace
whatsoever : he had even gone so far as to allege that
many of its laws and customs  especially those which
related to matrimony  were but remnants of the old
feudal tyrannies, which an enlightened British public
would eventually sweep away. It was natural, therefore,
on listening to these philippics, that both Mar-mature
and the Colonel should be in terror lest the
Viscount, in order to give tangible proof of his arguments,
should insist upon his grandson speedily reentering
his late regiment, or, in fault of that, upon
his joining another still more renowned both for its
prowess and for its extravagant expenditure.

No wonder, then, that it was with deep thankfulness
that Duke's project of retiring into the country was so
well received by the denizens of Hieover Grange.

These had their reasons for being thus acquiescent.
Although both the Viscount and his eldest son admired
Peggy's stanch affection for her husband, and
perfectly recognised her thorough unselfishness, they
did not fail to perceive that she was not exactly suited
for high society, and that her reception among the
aristocratic wives of Marmaduke's brother officers
might be regarded in the light of a dangerous experiment.

Consequently, they both agreed it were
better that the tide should be taken at the turn.

Duke was really in love with his wife ; and what
perhaps was more to the purpose, he seemed inclined
to settle down and to work. It was far better that he
should be out of the atmosphere of his quondam associates
; and then, what with hunting and fishing and
shooting, together with the visits of friends to partake
of these pleasures, life in the far west would be by no
means dull.

They might come here once a-year," said Alexander,
benevolently, " and I might possibly venture into
those wilds for a little shooting and to visit them in
return."

Yes ; that is a good idea," returned Lord Hieover.
This would obviate all sense of banishment, and keep
Ralph in good-humour into the bargain. Besides, if
Miss Clavering consents to dwell only part of each
year with the ' Dukes,' they will be fortunate indeed."

"Most fortunate," returned Mr LeppelL "By all
means let Ireland have a trial."

Every one connected with Marmaduke seemed, by a
happy concordance of ideas, to look upon this plan in
the most favourable light ; and in the general approbation,
ready money was offered from Hieover Grange,
just to set things going, and to prevent him from living
entirely on his wife.

Willina Clavering was true to her word. Mr Glas-cost
was pleased that this proposition had come from
herself, and Mrs Glascott, though sparing of her remarks,

made her husband aware that the arrangement
for Willina's change of abode was a matter of very
great relief to her. Why it should be a matter of
relief, Mr Glascott wondered, but did not take the
trouble to inquire. His wife was pleased ; Willina
had her way ; and as it was evident the two young
ladies did not get on well together, it was fortunate
perhaps that his ward had taken a fancy to stay with
the Marmaduke Leppells.

So thinking, he presented Willina with a handsome
sum of money for travelling expenses, as he put it ;
and shortly afterwards the young people set out for
their Irish home.

Colonel Leppell thought it to be his duty to accompany
the party, and see them settled in their new
abode. He was not very much wanted just then, ashe
was in everybody's way, and gave a great deal of
trouble ; but the inmates of Hunter's Lodge were in
need of a little relaxation, and Willina urged upon her
companions the necessity of some consideration for
them.

Lady Asher was better, but some renovation was
necessary in her apartments, and to effect this with
any degree of success, it was imperative that her son-in-law
should be not only out of the house, but also
out of the country.

Your papa, you know, Miss Clara," said Prothero
to that damsel, " is all very well just now ; but he hasa
nasty habit of going long distances, and coming back
at the most inconvenient seasons. If he was to drop

in on your grandma as he used to do in the old times,
he might give her a fit. Besides, I won't have it ; he
must go to Ireland, and so I shall tell the ' Dukes "

There vas no appeal from this verdict. The party,
as has been sloven, set off for " Connemara vay," as
Peggy phrased it, where we will leave them, and
see how Stephen bore his dismissal from his father's
house.

The months which had elapsed immediately upon
the quarrel at Hinton Square passed rather heavily, 
for although the day was generally fully occupied in
the usual crowd of business engagements, still the
nights hung dismally, and the loss of pleasant dinner
and evening society was at first a very great blank in
the life of Stephen La Touche.

It takes time in London to form new acquaintances,
and Stephen was one of those men who do not thoroughly
enjoy any pleasure unless it be shared by some
comrade or friend. Colin, too, whose sterling good
qualities and active sympathy were among his greatest
solaces, had been impelled by force of circumstances to
seek his livelihood in the sister isle. Brydone was a
closed port ; Tring an entrenched fortress. It was only
at Hunter's Lodge, and latterly at Hieover, that he
could hope to meet his betrothed. With all these
.trials, it is easy to perceive that Stephen required to
comport himself with much patience, in order to " win
through " successfully.

One piece of information reached him regarding his
father, through the medium of Colin M'Taggart, to

whom Marcia had thought proper, in a fit of annoyance,
to confide the news.

It was to the effect that, some weeks after Stephen's
migration, Mr La Touche had on one fine morning
presented himself rashly in the drawing - room of
Madame Heine's hired house in the character of a
suitor ; and, moreover, had pressed his attentions with
so much persistence, that he had been summarily repulsed
and shown the door, with more alacrity and
less ceremony than is usual on the like occasions.

But the cream of the matter, and that which tickled
the risible faculties of honest Colin, was the fact that,
at the same hour, Percival was waiting in the diningroom
of the same house on precisely the same errand.
He happened to be looking out at the window, when
he saw Mr La Touche issue out at the front door, and
walk slowly up the street. There was a defeated look
pervading the old gentleman's whole figure and manner
of progression which set his son wondering as
to what the business could be which had brought
his father there at that time of day. He comfortably
convinced himself that Mr La Touche had been
meddling in something concerning Madame Heine's
business. Perhaps he had gone so far as to counsel
that lady to change her legal adviser (this he had
threatened to do), and had been told to mind his own
business. Anyhow, a love-suit in that direction never
entered Percival's mind.

How should it ? Not many days before, both Mr
La Touche and his sister had suggested to Percival

that he should try his luck with Madame Heine. She
had gained another lawsuit, and, consequently, was
better worth securing to the family than ever.

I have it," almost exclaimed aloud that remarkably
astute individual. " The old man has thought todo
a stroke of business, and has come here to bespeak
Madame Heine's good opinion. I wish he had let it
alone ; but, at any rate, this explains his visit here."

A slight noise interrupted the course of Percival's
speculations. It was caused by the entrance of
Madame Heine, who, in apologising for his being kept
waiting, stated that she had merely been told that
some one was waiting to see her. Her servant had
believed that it was the man about a mistake in her
gas-bill.

The German lady's astonishment was indeed unbounded
when Percival enlightened her as to the
object of his presence. She had dismissed the father
ungraciously, but, out of respect for his age, without
the least demonstration of the scorn which she felt
towards him ; but in the case of his son she did not feel
called upon to exercise any such restraining power.

Her indignation, in fact, rendered her comparatively
speechless. A few words indicative of strong antipathy
fell from her lips ; and then she could only point
to the door, with a gesture implying that this wooer
should instantly withdraw. Percival, either from surprise
or from confusion, completely ignored these
signals, and remained standing in the same place, imploring
to be heard.

This, together possibly with the fact that she was
suffering from previous agitation, was too much for
the lady's patience.

The camel's back was not going to be broken by
this very pertinacious straw. " Will you go once
more, as I tell you ? " cried she. " Do you not think
that I very well know for what come you here. You
shall no more come to my house, and  and you can
now take that."

A tumbler half-full of water had been left standing
on the sideboard. Madame Heine seized it, and, quick
as lightning, dashed the contents into Percival's face ;
then she sped past him, and the last sound of her voice
that the drenched hero ever heard was an order to a
servant to fetch a cab as quickly as possible for that
man in the dining-room, who must go at once.

Thus ended the " wooing of the foreigner " on the
part of Mr La Touche and his eldest son.

It was not long before the secret oozed out. The
old gentleman, betwixt wrath and humiliation, felt the
matter keenly, and was completely satisfied that he
had made a fool of himself. Percival, furious with
anger, and for the sake of pouring that anger into
some safety-valve, had put Marcia ait courant of the
whole affair.

Miss La Touche was not slow in turning the matter
to her own account. She wanted change ; the girls
wanted change. They were, as a family, out of tune
and out of sorts. Suppose a house were taken at
Folkestone, and they would all go down there for a

VOL. III. I

few weeks? "Nothing like sea-air and moderate
amusement, my dear," continued Marcia, as she saw
that her nephew was inclined towards the plan.
This house, too, wants a little painting, and it will
be as well if we all go together ; it would avoid all
appearance of a quarrel, or any annoyance having
taken place, don't you see ? "

Percival did see ; and his vision must have been
wonderfully sharpened, for he said, " I will be at the
expense of a furnished house for a month, and we can
all go to Folkestone ; but do you think my father will
move ? He appears to me to be dreadfully dejected ;
he may take it into his head to remain at home."

Better not," said Marcia. " Many a ball is caught
at the rebound ; and if your father is left in town,
some of these goody, goody women will get hold of
him, and there is no saying who will be brought in
over our heads. The missionary meetings will be quite
a resource and comfort to him now. He must by no
means be allowed to attend them in his present state
of mind."

I thought you had arranged for Martha to see him
back in the evenings, and all that ? " said Percival.

Yes ; but hitherto it has been very inconvenient.
However, Martha is going to be cook-housekeeper
now. You see they won't keep little Anna any longer
at that school, and she is to be returned on our hands
next month. She's had another fit. I have talked
the matter over with your father, and we agree that it
will never do to have an attendant expressly for the

child ; it would look too, too medical. So your father
will get another cook, and Martha will have the housekeeper's
room, and Anna will be well looked after. It
won't do for the child to be seen," continued Marcia,
neither will it do to send her to a private asylum
or into the family of a medical man ; besides, Martha
manages Anna far better than any one else does, and
the little creature is very fond of her father. You see
this will make a nice party, as my brother wants
looking after at times. He is beginning to be very
forgetful ; and really, Percival, work as hard as I like,
I cannot fill seven or eight different posts at once.
Eather too much responsibility for one individual, I
think."

Her nephew stared, and asked her what she meant.

I mean this : I have to be by turns chaperone,
housekeeper, hostess, upper nurse, secretary, medical
referee, and universal peg upon which the family sev- 
rally and collectively hang their grievances ; and now
I can see that very shortly I shall have to add that of
keeper to your father," returned Marcia, speaking with
great animation.

You don't mean that ! " said Percival, aghast.

I do," returned the aunt. " There is nothing acutely
wrong with your father, but his mind is not what it
was, and I feel sure he will very shortly have to retire
and live in a kind of honourable captivity. Therefore
I think it wise to secure Martha for Anna, and prepare
the way for looking after your father  in this
manner it will come as a thing of course. If he

were to retire, I could not have him on my hands
all day."

Percival agreed, but thought it would be a difficult
matter to induce his father to give up the business
entirely. " It is second nature to him," he said.

We must manage to find him light employment in
meetings and charity organisation affairs," said Marcia.
He is in his glory in these things ; and, as he does not
put much into the plate at the collections, it will be a
very harmless and inexpensive manner of passing his
time : and he might employ his mornings in calling
on subscribers, and getting subscriptions for various
charities."

But you would not advise Martha being his companion
on these missions," said Percival.

Iot as a rule ; one of the girls could go with her
father occasionally. It would look domestic and
filial," Marcia replied. '' And it would let people see
that though we mix with the world, yet we are not
above working for the poor and needy, and are "

Equal to making the best of both worlds," interrupted
Percival. " But what are we to do about Folkestone
? I don't believe the governor will go, and he
can't be left alone a whole month."

There's Colin M'Taggart," exclaimed Marcia  " he
is not going to his new place for some time ; he can
come and sit with your father, and even dine with
him. Besides, they might explore the charitable
institutions of London together, and both gain a
great deal of useful information."

"Not a bad idea, but I will invite my father to
Folkestone," replied Percival sententiously, " for I want
to keep him in good humour. He is rather put out
concerning that unfortunate Heine affair ; but I must
keep him in good humour, as I said, because it is
imperative that he should see the propriety of retiring
from the business." Percival also cordially approved
of the plan of raising Martha to the dignity of housekeeper,
and proposed that she should entirely give up
all culinary work. " This would be," he said, " a most
natural proceeding, and it would be well that one
who had lived so long in the service of the family
should be intrusted with the care of those members of
it who were accredited with a tendency to being
' nervous,' or to going off their heads, after the manner
La Touche."

The old gentleman was duly approached on the subject
of a wholesale migration to Folkestone, but without
effect. He was obliged to his son for his invitation,
and very glad to find that he was ready to pay
all expenses ; " but," continued Mr La Touche, " I
have had gallivanting enough, and annoyance enough,
and expenditure enough, and for the future I intend
to look in at the office now and then, and stick to
home for the rest of my life."

This announcement was not received with any great
degree of elation by the household of Mr La Touche.
There was no objection to him personally," one of his
offspring was good enough to declare, " but it was not
pleasant to have the head of the house always at

home. There would be the chance of his seein(]j
letters which he ought not to see, and of being in the
way when callers arrived who did not care to see him,
and many other objections besides, trivial in themselves,
but still objections."

"There is one comfort," said Marcia, when the
father's ultimatum was discussed by the younger
people  " your father is out of sorts now, but the old
Adam is not buried within him. Mark my words, ina
few months' time he will be off to some watering
as gay as a lark."

Marcia did not very much care, now that she had
secured a veritable housekeeper, what her brother
decided to do. Both he and little Anna would be well
looked after for the future, and if either of them
were a little " queer," things would be so ordered that
the outside world need never be a whit the wiser.

So she called unto her Martha, and flattered that
matron, and put her in sole charge, telling her that Mr
La Touche and his whole family regarded her with
every sentiment of attachment and respect. Colin
M'Taggart was to consider himself welcome whenever
he should happen to drop in of an evening, and to
this effect Miss La Touche dedicated an epistle to
that youth.

The wording of this missive was, however, much
more a permission to enter the house than an invitation
to visit it ; and Colin was not one whit blind to
the fact that his aunt was simply making a convenience
of him.

I shall go, however," the good fellow resolved, " for
Stephen's sake. I shall have a better chance of getting
my uncle alone, poor weak worldly body ; and
maybe I may manage to bring a reconciliation about :
so much more can be done when that Percival is out of
the way. Eh ! those family disruptions are awful
things."

At a given day the family left London; even
Andrew, the youngest son, whom Percival always
designated as " our clerk," was allowed to participate
in the month's holiday.

Mr La Touche was left alone with the painters and
the housekeeper, and Colin " dropped in " in the evening,
and did his best to divert the old man. They
played backgammon, and they discussed home and
foreign affairs in so far as these related to politics.
But, with all his endeavours, Colin could never get his
uncle to speak of his son Stephen. That subject was
evidently forbidden ground ; and perhaps it was as well
that Mr La Touche was ignorant that the little passages
which he and his eldest son had gone through
with Madame Heine had been retailed by Marcia to
their Scotch nephew.

Still it was trying to the latter that his cousin
should be alluded to as being the offender in breaking
the family peace, and it was sometimes with difficulty
that he could refrain from giving his uncle a bit of
his mind on the subject.

On the whole, however, this queerly assorted pair
became friends : the nephew was cordially welcomed

to the house, and Martha, the housekeeper, was radiant
when he appeared.

It more than once struck Colin that, for some
reason or other, this buxom widow seemed very
anxious to secure his good opinion, and that she
was now and then rather pertinacious in her requirements
that he should make a good report of the
nonage at Hinton Square, whenever he wrote to
Folkestone.

Colin was not supposed to keep up a correspondence
with any of his cousins ; but latterly, his uncle had
requested him to send bulletins about the painting,
and to represent to the family the desirability of
their return at so early a period as the end of a
month. It was only fair, Colin was requested to
state, that the house should be taken on for another
month, and that the expenses should be borne by the
head of the La Touche family.

The absentees were delighted : Percival gladly permitted
his parent to have his way in the matter of
expense, and as Folkestone was very gay, all went
to the satisfaction of every one concerned. It was
pleasant also to find that, in spite of paint and
solitude, the governor was plucking up his spirits,
that he had been to the theatre, had not attempted
to attend any "serious" meeting, and had
actually declined to take the chair at a gathering
which had for its object the conversion of the Arab
donkey-boys of Port Said. He and Colin had been
to Wilde's Great Globe in Leicester Square, to which

edifying distraction Martha and little Anna had accompanied
them. Little Anna had been returned
home ; and in consequence, Colin had seen more of
Martha, and was happy to report that she managed
the little girl well, and that the house at Hinton
Square could not be better conducted in all respects
than it then was.

So far, so good ; and Colin was accordingly accredited
by the recipients of the report as possessing
more sense than they had supposed.

A change, however, soon came over the spirit of
their dream, and Colin's powers of telegraphy were
once more called into requisition by his uncle.

Just a week previous to the return of the family,
Mr M'Taggart had been invited by his uncle to dine
at Hinton Square on a particular day  Mr La Touche
observing at the time that it would be the last quiet
and peaceable repast that he ever expected to enjoy
in that house. He was going out of town, he added,
for two or three days upon some business, concerning
which he did not choose that his family should have
any knowledge : he would be back on Thursday, and
would expect to see Colin at six o'clock on the
evening of that day.

Mr M'Taggart accepted the invitation, and in due
time he kept the appointment. He was rather surprised
on entering the drawing-room to find Martha
sitting there in handsome attire ; and further, that she
received him after the manner of a hostess receiving a
guest.

The entrance of Mr La Touche explained all.
"Allow me to present you to my wife, Colin," said
he; "we returned this afternoon from Hastings, where
we were married last Saturday."

Colin turned very red, but put out his hand, seeing
that he must make the best of it. " Ye have played
us all an unchancy trick," said he at length, " but it
might have been worse "

"That it might," interposed the bride; "and had
Mr Percival and his aunt not gone wool-gathering
after my 'husband at watering-places, and doing their
best to prevent him marrying a lady in his own line,
they might have seen what has been going on under
their noses. It's done now, and we are going to live
at Wheatley; the tenants are gone by this time."

I'll get you to write to Aunt Marcia this evening,"
said the bridegroom, " and ask her to come up at once.
Come away now, and let us enjoy our dinner."

CHAPTER Iii.

A FURNISHED HOUSE LET.

Percival, much to the relief of his aunt, received the
news of his father's marriage with far greater equanimity
than either she or any of the family had expected.
Indeed, the former had gone so far as to
opine that, all circumstances considered, it was perhaps
the best thing the old gentleman could do.

This dutiful son declared that Mr La Touche was
beginning to be a nuisance in the business. " In fact,"
said he, " my father might have retired from it with
advantage more than a year ago ; but at that time he
would not even listen to any such proposition."

It was only a few weeks back, Percival informed his
aunt, that Mr La Touche had made some overtures to
a foreign firm, which were so peculiar and preposterous
that they had to be immediately cancelled, and some
excuse advanced for what must have appeared as
either the wanderings of intellect or some very culpable
perversion of business regime. Again, some of
the correspondence had become very much neglected

of late, and, in addition to this, two glaring mistakes
had appeared in the accounts, all of which was traceable
to the elder partner. So all was as well ; and
Percival expressed himself convinced that Martha
would take care of his father, and, above all things,
prevent him from playing tricks with his money.

She's a fairly good - looking woman, too," said
Marcia; "and when dressed in black silk and with
violet ribbons in her cap, would look as well as many
a higher-born lady. Have you made all the money
arrangements with your father ? " she inquired, looking
at Percival.

Yes ; my father will retire from the business altogether.
He will draw 1200 a-year for his life from
it. This, with Wheatley, will make him very comfortable.
It is a cheap arrangement on the whole,"
continued Percival, " for he might persist in remaining
in the business and draw much more. It is hardly to
be expected that any eligible person would hamper
herself with him now," volunteered Mr La Touche ;
and Martha is respectable and knows his ways. She
is well educated, too, for her position in life ; besides,
it is money saved to get one of the family to live at
Wheatley. It did not pay to let it. The last tenants
have left the place in a scandalous condition."

What about the provision for Martha ? " asked
Marcia, sharply. " Of course, something has to be
done for her."

Four hundred a-year is settled upon her at my
father's death, with the distinct understanding that

she leave Wheatley immediately on that' event. The
arrangement allows her to marry again without any
loss of jointure. This, you see, compensates for the
evacuation of Wheatley."

Here Percival winked, as if to signify that a very
decided stroke of good business had been thus scored,
and that, thanks to his judicious manipulation, matters
were turning out far better than might have been
prognosticated at the first blush of this untoward
business. So Marcia felt, and she determined that as
Martha was now her brother's wife, it only remained
to utilise her as much as possible for the family
benefit. Mrs La Touche should improve the occasion,
and turn her talents in the direction of renovating
Wheatley, making good the waste places of that
domain, and straightening its crooked paths. There
was a fine field wherein Martha could exercise her
talents, and Percival would be all the better of the
improvements that would undoubtedly be made, when
the legitimate time should arrive for his coming into
possession of this small manor of Wheatley.

So, agreeing that " all's well that ends well," Miss
La Touche sought out Martha, and graciously proposed
that they should conjointly travel down to Wheatley,
and ascertain the condition in which the house and
furniture were really left, Percival's report having
been much too sketchy to be acted upon with any
degree of faith.

"You know," said Marcia, wisely, "you'll never
get as much again as you will by striking now, when

the iron is hot. Mr Percival is in a good humour,
and will, I think, give a small sum towards repairs
and so forth. Suppose we go down tomorrow morning,
and see for ourselves what is most needed."

The bride willingly acquiesced in this proposition,
and Marcia immediately set to work, and that vigorously.
She pressed upon Percival the desirability of
a little ready money being advanced in order to supply
that portion of the furniture which was beyond renovation,
and also for new gravelling the walks and
repairing the outbuildings. "The place, you know,
will be your own," said Marcia, as she urged her plea ;
besides, a couple of hundred pounds in Martha's
hands will go twice as far as the same sum in those
of many another woman. Then," continued she, putting
what ought to be the first consideration last on
the list, " your father is entitled to a clean and decent
house wherein to end his days  remember that."

A sum of money was, after some deliberation,
allotted by both father and son to the refurbishing of
Wheatley, to which abode the family collectively
agreed that the newly-wedded pair should be encouraged
to betake themselves with all possible celerity.

Marcia, in consequence, accompanied her sister-in-law
early on the morrow to Wheatley, to view the
wreckage left by the late tenants of that domicile.

It was no matter of surprise (had Marcia known it)
that, in addition to other outrages, such as serving
as a tent-covering at summer picnics, and as a foot-walk
on snowy nights when balls at Christmas-tide

demanded that the outer walks of the mansion should
be protected alike from soil and thaw  it was not to
be wondered at that, after these rough experiences,
the hall carpet should be all tattered and torn, and
that Marcia, whilst taking up a bunch of its threads
on the point of her parasol, should exclaim, " Disgraceful
! too bad ! dis-gra-ce-f ul ! "

Oh, the carpet, you mean," said Mrs La Touche,
who had been busy in counting, by the places left
void, the number of Dutch tiles which would be required
to reinstate the hall fireplace in its pristine
glory. " That rag ! it should be burnt at once. Why,
your brother. Miss Marcia, might trip up and fall and
'hurt himself in those strings ; and where should we
all be ? "

Marcia replied " she did not know ; but it was very
provoking."

Well, I know," returned the bride, " that I should
be a 'husband out of pocket. So please put down,
under the head of ' articles absolutely necessary,' new
Turkey or Persian carpet for 'all."

Marcia made the entry ; and then suddenly looking
up, exclaimed, " Why, what on earth have they japanned
the hall - lamp for ? They have actually
japanned that nice crystal lamp. Oh, Mr La Touche
will be so vexed when he sees it."

Martha looked up and surveyed the pendant with
the eye of an expert. " It's not japanned, ma'am," she
said at length; "that's good honest dirt, fine brown
colour. It can be cleaned, but it wants time."

As Marcia was still unconvinced, the caretaker was
summoned, and the lamp, between them, was carefully
unhooked from its chain. Mrs La Touche had not
been mistaken ; the whole of the glass was tinted of
a rich chocolate-brown colour, hardened at the rims
by a thick layer of grease, and the end of a candle lay
consumed in its own smoke in the interior socket. It
was plain that the uncleaned glass had been covered
for months with the vaporous exhalation of dying
candle-wicks, and that layers of dirt had contributed
to render the lamp effectually opaque in the light of
day. It could be cleaned, of course ; but it was not
to be expected that a house-agent should take cognisance
of trifles deteriorating to the property of his
employer. Custom had rendered the neglect of a
hired furnished house a common occurrence on the
part of the occupants. The owner might have substituted
another lamp if he held this particular luminary
in especial value.

So argue the majority of folks ; and, meeting dishonesty
with dishonesty, many are led to furbish
their habitations with inferior ware, to save the risk
of being utterly despoiled.

The lip of a large blue-and-white Chinese vase was
next discovered to be broken off in a compact wedge.
This piece of porcelain stood under the hall table, but
its undamaged side had not been sufficiently placed to
the front ; and as Marcia was now on the look-out
for damages, instead of meeting them half-way, she
quickly perceived this fracture. " How can this have

happened ? " said she ; " they can't have washed the
babies in this, because we were so particular not tolet
the house to people with a nursery party. Dear,
dear, what a shame it is ! "

Perhaps the people had visitors who brought their
babies with them," suggested Martha.

I think, mem," said the caretaker, cutting in, and
taking up her parable on the precedent, probably, of
parrots in general being named Polly  "I think it
must have been that Polly as done it. He laid his
eggs in that there bowl. I know, because the footman
asked my master to give 'un some shavings to
put at the bottom of it ; because, you see, the cheney
slopes down very sudden, and there would not have
been room for the bird to turn comfortable ; so they
propped up his nest to the centre like, and he had
some fine eggs. I did hear that Polly had broke something,
and I do believe it was this very cheney thing.
He used to run and hide in here when he wanted to get
away from people : it's nice and high, you see, mem."

Mrs Bubb  that was the caretaker's name  seemed
positively to revel in her disclosures ; and to allow her
mind to be disturbed at the spoliation of property
which she was at that moment being paid to protect,
would have been indeed quite a novel distraction.

"You see, mem," she continued, as she discovered
indignation expressed on Marcia's features, "people
don't take so much care in a furnished 'ouse; they
thinks they pays for all them little mischances and
accidents, like."

VOL. Il K

They don't pay," returned Marcia, in exasperation.
We have not heard a word about these breakages.
The house-agent has let the people depart, and I don't
think Mr La Touche has received a penny for damages.
Well, let us go into the dining-room and see
how that has fared."

This apartment seemed to have met with fairly
decent treatment ; but the handsome mahogany tables
which, in former times, shone resplendent in polish,
were now unkempt and tarnished ; and in several
places rings of various sizes and hues, and interlaced
and entangled the one within the other, testified unmistakably
that more ponderous vessels than the
ordinary wine-glass and tumbler had figured and left
their mark in the feasts of the late denizens of the
house.

What on earth can this huge mark mean ? " said
Marcia, following with her finger a circle which stood
out conspicuous in size and dimensions above its lesser
brethren. " Can you tell us what it is, Mrs Bubb ? "

"Well, 'em, you see, 'em, it was the claret-cup
flagon, or maybe the cheney bowl from up-stairs.
The day as they had the bow-and-arrer party, Mr
Dallas, he had all the tables out on the lawn, and
they was almost covered with beer-jugs and claret-cup
and bottles and glasses, and that there great
cheney bowl out of the drawing-room, it stood in the
middle, and smoked beautiful, it did."

Smoked ! " exclaimed Marcia  " the bowl smoked,
you say ! "

That 'a did, mem. Mrs Dallas's brother  such a
nice free gentleman !  from the Indies, he brewed a
foreign drink in it  Sankyree, I think he called it,
after a Jamaica negro who was converted to see his
lights in the Gospel," Mrs Bubb went on, sanctimoniously.
" They ladled out this Sankyree in wooden
spoons, and every one had a taste. I was in luck, as
Mrs Dallas 'ad me in to wash up, and help wait on
the lawn."

You don't mean to say that Mrs Dallas allowed a
hot drink to be brewed in that splendid, valuable
china bowl, which was placed on a side-table in the
drawing-room to receive visiting-cards ? " said Marcia.

I do, 'em ; Mr Fast said that bowl was used in the
ark for Noah's drop of comfort in the wet to be brewed
in, and that he was only restoring the cheney to its
legitimate use in the dry. Oh, he was a funny gentleman
was Mr Fast, mem. Did you never happen to
see him ? "

I wish I had seen him brewing sangaree in that
bowl," replied Marcia, quite viciously for her; "Mr Fast
would never have forgotten the interview. I suppose
I have to hear that the bowl was smashed to pieces
after the party," she went on to say, more than pink
in the face from exasperation.

Oh dear no, mem," answered Mrs Bubb ; " it rather
did 'un good. We put it back quite careful, and I
washed 'un myself with a bit of soda in the warm
water to get out the smell of the rum  it's got quite
a polish, it has."

It would have been as well if you had turned your
attention to cleaning the dining-room tables," intervened
Mrs La Touche, with a touch of acid in her
voice. " But wait awhile, my good woman ; in a very
short time I will show you what a dining-table for a
gentleman's house should be like : this looks as if it
had come out of a tavern. Faugh ! how it smells."

They ascended to the drawing-room, which was a
handsome and well-proportioned apartment, and terminated
at its south end in a large bow window which
opened out on a wide verandah, supported from beneath
by light iron pillars.

The view from this, over an extensive lawn and
graceful trees of every hue which green and grey
and gold and brown can present, was very fair to
look upon : it would be difficult to decide whether
the near landscape or the far-off prospect were the
more beautiful. Here tint and colour of every
shade in nature on flower and shrub ; there deep soft
shadow toning the pure effulgence of heaven's light.

An air of repose was imparted by the appearance of
the furniture, which was not only comfortable but in
good keeping with the style of the house ; and this
room, which was free of the guilt of being crammed
with useless cheap nick-nacks, must, at any season
of the year, have been a very charming retreat.

Marcia, to her great astonishment and to her still
greater relief, found the china bowl in perfect condition.
Some visiting-cards rested in its cavity, and no signs
of the backsliding in which it had acted as a passive

instrument were visible either on its inner or outer
surface.

Mollified by the result of a very minute examination
of the china bowl, Miss La Touche was enabled
to look around with some complacency, and save a
little wear and tear and some general shabbiness,
which was to be expected, the ladies had so far
reason to congratulate themselves upon the aspect of
things in this part of the house.

One does not expect to find much rough handling
in the quarter especially set aside for ladies," said
Mrs La Touche, looking upwards as she made the
remark. The sight that met her view, however,
caused her to retract the expression of her opinion
in this case, for high up, almost close to the ceiling,
at irregular distances and in irregular lines, a number
of unsightly holes dotted the surface of the
white-and-gold wall-paper, coloured here and therewith
an ashy burnt-looking stain  such a mark, in
fact, as would remain after the application of heated
wire or of a small red-hot poker.

The two ladies gazed in wonder at this piece of
handiwork, and it was in vain that they sought a
solution of its meaning.

Here Mrs Bubb was totally at fault as a referee.
There was only only one conclusion at which they
could arrive, and that was that the expensive panel-paper
on that side of the room was irremediably spoilt,
for here and there strips and ugly scraps of the same
were peeling off  all these strongly tinged with the

hue which suggested destruction by flame. It was of
no use to waste time in speculation, but Marcia vowed
she would arrest the house-agent and the late tenants
(who were en route for the West Indies), and insist
upon a clear explanation and a new wall-paper.

As her eye travelled downwards, it lighted on a
handsome bracket which was appended midway
against the wall, and had evidently been provided
for the support of some ornament or work of art.
It was now entirely void, and Marcia drew her breath
short and quick as she surveyed it. At last she spoke 

Where's the Eve ? Eve at the fountain I mean,
of course."

The Heve at the fountain, mem ? " returned Mrs
Bubb, looking as imperturbable as the bracket itself.
I knows of no Heve ? "

You do. You know Adam's wife ; the first woman
our first mother," replied Marcia, with an angry
glare. "A figure carved in marble, with her hair
hanging about her and nothing on, looking into some
water  she stood on this bracket ; do you know anything
about it ? "

"It were an image, mem," answered Mrs Bubb,
brought to bay. " Oh, yes ! the 'air was 'heavenly  I
remembers."

It was a statuette  a figure," continued Marcia,
severely. " Where is it ? "

Well, 'em, I fancies it was the ornament of a
female as my girl lead a misfortune with. She was
'helping the 'housemaid here after a party, and "

Your girl had a misfortune ! what do you mean ? "

Yes, 'em  a real misfortune. She was dusting with
a long-haired broom, trying to river up them 'oles, and
the broom caught in this in-and-out carving, and over
went the marble figure. It fell and broke of itself,
mem. My girl had nothing to do with that  oh, no ;
it came to pieces of his-self."

This is too dreadful," exclaimed poor Marcia,
turning to Mrs La Touche. " I cannot think what
Fanny will say. Her godfather had this statuette
sculptured expressly for her at Some, and sent it over
on her birthday with the bracket. We placed it here
because Fanny thought that the air of London might
injure the marble ; it is the finest Carrara marble,
without a vein. Where are the pieces ? " inquired
Marcia, turning suddenly on Mrs Bubb. " Of course
you have kept them ? "

Oh dear, no, mem," responded that functionary,
with the utmost coolness ; " the housemaid and my
girl step' up the bits sharp : some of it was near
ground to powder; and, Lord, 'em," continued Mrs
Bubb, in what she rneant to be a conciliatory tone, " I
wouldn't mind, if I was you : after all, that Heve was
only a naked vulgar image, and maybe the sweeping
on it away might be one of them dispensations of
Providence we hears so much about nowadays: you
know, 'em, morals asks for clothes."

Marcia could hardly restrain a smile ; and as there
was evidently no redress to be obtained, she was fain
to endure the loss of the statuette, and resolve to consider,

at some other time, how the disaster could be
made good to the rightful owner of this work of art.
It was plain that the late tenants could not be held
accountable for this piece of devastation ; so as time
was wearing on, Miss La Touche concluded to drop
the subject, and to meet at once whatever other revelations
might be in store for her.

The upper storey, which contained the principal
dormitories of the house, next underwent examination.
Here there was little of which to complain ;
but on ascending higher up, the lath and plaster
which formed the dividing wall between two garret
rooms was found to be perforated by two enormous
holes, which had evidently been recently punctured,
with a design which was not at once apparent to a
casual observer. As a bed was placed on either side
of the wall opposite to these apertures, Marcia immediately
rushed to a conclusion.

'' Evidently these have been driven through on either
side for the purpose of establishing some communication,"
said that lady,  " a footman on one side, I daresay,
and a kitchen-maid on the other. Scandalous ;
highly improper."

No, 'em  no, mem ; no impropriety whatsoever,"
cut in Mrs Bubb, who had lagged behind, and just
arrived in time to catch the exclamation concerning
impropriety. " Impropriety ! Oh laws, no, 'em ; they
was two girls as shep' in these rooms, the daughters of
a friend of Mrs Dallas. They were on a visit herewith
their mar last Christmas ; and they caught influenza

colds ; and as the 'ouse was full of company, they
were put up here."

Quite right," replied Mrs La Touche ; " the furniture
here is very comfortable, and the rooms contain
a fireplace apiece. But the young ladies did not punch
these holes surely, or spoil the wall in this shameful
manner ? "

We cannot just call it spoil, mem," answered Mrs
Bubb, in a deprecatory tone. " They was dull, poor
things ; so Mr Fast  he was such a nice kind gentleman
 he bored them 'oles, so that the young ladies
could talk through comfortably without leaving their
beds. You see, 'em," continued Mrs Bubb, in explanation,
" there is not room in these garrets for more
than one bed, as there was to be a fire kep' up constant
for each lady, and we couldn't crowd two beds
into the small space ; so Mr Fast he managed this
plan,  he is one, mem, as thinks it his duty to make
things comfortable all round, that he do."

I wish he had thought it his duty to respect the
property which does not belong to him ! " exclaimed
Marcia. " Mrs Dallas ought to have been ashamed
of herself to have such a brother. But how do you
know all this ? are you quite sure of what you say ? "

Quite sure, 'em. I was 'ad in to help ness the
young ladies for a week ; and then there was a good
deal of cleaning up. 'Cause when they got better, Mr
Fast used to come up and make toffey, and they as
often as not let the sugar bile over. You see that
burn on the boards there ? "

Yes, plainly enough," answered Miss La Touche.

That was where they let the bottom of the pan fall
out ; it was scalding 'ot, and the sugar ran all down
that board, and some cinders dropped out with the
pan, and them, with the biting sugar, did make the
boards near ablaze : we nearly had the 'ouse afire that
time ; but it was a job to get rid of the mess they made
that afternoon. Mr Fast, dear gentleman, gave me
half-a-crown to say nothing about it to Mrs Dallas,
'cause she was mortal afeard of fire."

I am glad there was something she was afraid of
in this house," said Marcia ; " we may be thankful to
have escaped so well. You know, I suppose, that Mr
La Touche is coming to live here himself as soon as
the place can be made ready ? "

Mrs Bubb had heard so, and further, that he had
married lately somebody the family didn't quite approve
of,  '' but low ! bless 'ee," continued that excellent
woman, " what's the odds ? he's 'happy, and in a
few years it will save the expense of a nurse."

Mrs La Touche had walked into a store-room before
Mrs Bubb had delivered her news and her opinions,
and Marcia put an end to further conversation on this
topic by saying, " That lady who is with me is Mrs La
Touche. Have the goodness to speak of her with respect.
She will be sole mistress here  and a very
good wife and mistress she will be, as all those whom
my brother may employ will soon know."

Thoroughly crushed and subdued by Marcia's manner,
Mrs Bubb protested that she was quite ready to

believe this ; and with the fear of being left out of the
list of the occasionally employed of Wheatley, she now
attended Mrs La Touche with marked humility, and
finally begged of that lady that the affair of the " him-age
" might not go against her girl should an under-housemaid
be wanted for the future service of the
Manor-house.

The mansion having been thoroughly gone through,
there were merely the greenhouses and a small conservatory
to inspect. These were to be kept up to their
utmost capabilities, as so many flowers were required
for the London house ; and Percival was inexorable
in his determination never to be supplied by any
nurseryman in town. It had been a point in the
arrangement that flowers and fruit were to be sent
to Hinton Square once a-week at least. Mrs La
Touche and Marcia had willingly entered into this
agreement, because they each believed that the cultivation
of the nursery-pi ants would be an interest for
little Anna. It was therefore necessary that everything
should be in good order, and some extra expense
be incurred, if necessary, to replenish the greenhouses
and supply the latest improvements in gardening utensils
and machinery.

It was well that they were prepared to meet some
deficit : the state of the flower-garden was disgraceful
to a degree, and the damage in the greenhouse such
as to outvie their wildest expectations. Broken stoves,
severed pipes, melon-frames destitute of glass (it transpired
that these last had been set up as a mark by

Mr Fast for the game of Aunt Sally, without Aunt Sally
proper), rows of cracked flower-pots, wire-stands, with
their component parts twisted out of shape, rusty
rakes, with a complement of ragged matting and
undistinguishable litter, intermingled with a spike
here and a nail there, testified to the most wanton
neglect and destruction.

Some pointer puppies had been reared in the larger
greenhouse, and they with their mother had, in the
first glory of their youthful gambols, playfully capsized
some dozens of pot-plants, and made a happy
huntingj-Ejround of each wooden tub that contained
an orange-tree. This was all very delightful for the
puppies and Mr Fast their owner, no doubt ; but the
point of view did not command any idea of hilarity,
or even of decent mirth, on the part of either Marcia
or Mrs La Touche. They computed that at least
70 would have to be laid out in the renovations
necessary to restore the gardening and flower department
to the state of order in which it had been originally
handed over to these dreadful tenants just
three years ago  and they were incensed, and justly
incensed accordingly.

A helper in the stables afterwards threw some
light on the matter of the damaged wall-paper in
the drawing-room. This would not at the first blush
appear to have been the proper source from whence
the like information should be obtained ; but it appeared
that in some of the festivities at Wheatley,
under the late regime, the places of the servitors got

occasionally somewhat mixed. Thus it occurred on
one cold night, the redoubtable Mr Fast and some of
his friends (Mrs Dallas nothing loath), with the
object of whiling away the time, amused themselves
by throwing their lighted cigars up on high against
the drawing" - room wall towards a given mark  it

O o

being, at the same time, agreed that the gentleman
who threw the highest above that mark should be
entitled to the bets then made.

This game was so exciting upon another occasion,
that most of the household retired to rest, leaving
the players in sole possession of the (drawing-room)
field. The helper had come up to the house late to
receive orders about a horse belonging to one of the
visitors, and as this man enjoyed the reputation of
being exceptionally sharp of eye, he was, in consequence,
called up to decide which was the higher
of two shots, these appearing to be on the same level
to the persons then present, who claimed to possess
the ordinary powers of vision only.

The man averred that there was a difference of half
an inch between the two shots, and he was then sent
to fetch a ladder in order that his dictum might be
verified. A minute examination proved the stable-helper
to be in the right, and a donation of five
shillings from the winner probably fixed the circumstance
in his mind.

You did not think that these gentlemen were committing
a gross outrage on Mr La Touche's property ? "
inquired Marcia, as she listened to these revelations.

The man replied that he didn't know as he did.
You see it was a hired house, ma'am, and Mr
Dallas paid 'ransome," he continued, in explanation ;
but it was a pity, sure, for that wall-paper to be
spoiled. I thought as much at the time, but then
as my employers didn't seem to take any heed, it
was not my place to make remarks."

You are right, quite right, my man," said Mrs La
Touche, energetically ; " it would be well for all the
preaching and teaching that goes on in the world
if a little of it were directed towards a better understanding
of the laws of common honesty (putting
honour out of the question) on the part of those who
deal with the possessions of their neighbour under
trust. I have a great opinion of going to the fountainhead
wherever reformation is needed. Mr and
Mrs Dallas certainly paid for the use of this house
and furniture, but it was with the implied understanding
that the property would be treated with
as much care as people usually bestow on their own.
They have certainly failed in doing this."

And that house-agent," interrupted Marcia  " I
wish he had failed in another sense : it was his
business to note these damages, and get compensation
for them ; and I know he attends missionary
meetings, and talks about converting the heathen.
Bah ! I really do think people should mend their
own ways, and set the heathen a better example or
leave them alone ; he and that Mr Fast ought to be
sent to jail  they really ought."

Martha smiled. " I am no great scholar," she said
at length, " but I have read somewhere that evil is
wrought as much by want of thought as by want of
heart. I think this is a case, Miss Marcia, of  of that
style of thing. Well, it shall be my duty and effort
to make up for all this destruction, and don't you
think we have had enough of annoyance for one
day ? The journey back to town through this lovely
country will cheer us up ; and after all, we may have
injured our neighbour without meaning to do so sometime
in our lives, although it may not have been with
furnished houses, and all in the lump."

By all means let us go back," assented Marcia ;
I am so disgusted that I am glad to turn my back
on the place."

They took leave of the attendants, and as soon as
they were fairly out of hearing, the stable-helper propounded
his opinion that Mrs La Touche was not half
a bad woman, and further declared his intention of
sticking up for her against any person or persons who
might venture to assert that old Mr La Touche had
not acted wisely in the choice of a second wife. Thus
vowed the stable-helper.

CHAPTER VIII.

"VIVENT LES FEMMES POUR LES Uses Clamour."

The progress of time sufficiently proved to the family
of Mr La Touche that his second marriage, against
which so many useless precautions had been taken,
had in all respects turned out much more satisfactorily
than the majority of unequal alliances usually
do. Martha not only showed herself an incomparable
wife, but she also had the good sense to abstain
from all interference with her husband's children, and
even from comment on their actions, however imprudent
or irrational these might sometimes appear to be.

Five years had now rolled away, and change and
death had fallen slowly upon some of the near, as also
upon some of what may perhaps be termed the outlying,
friends of the La Touche circle.

Lord Hieover died somewhat suddenly a few months
after Mrs Leppell, and his son Alexander was now
Viscount, with all the honours and all the revenues
lawfully appertaining to that dignity. Colonel Lep-
pell's debts had been partially paid, in consequence of

the provision left in his father's will for that purpose ;
an annuity for life being also settled upon him. Some
little money was also left to each one of the Colonel's
children ; but these bequests were not very highly
appreciated, and Uncle Alick, on all hands, bore the
blame of having influenced the late Viscount malevolently
in their disfavour.

But, like marriages, testamentary bequests seldom
meet with unqualified approbation from all concerned.
The new Viscount insisted that his brother and his
family were more than well treated, and that they
had received quite as much as they had any right to
expect. " It behoved them," said that relative, " to
behave themselves decently, one and all ; for upon the
good behaviour of the Hunter's Lodge people some of
the dispositions in his own will would very certainly
depend."

This statement had the effect of bringing Colonel
Leppell  who had been inclined to be very violent
regarding the will  to something like reason ; and
amicable relations, or at any rate the appearance of
them, were eventually kept up between the Grange
and the Lodge.

Must do one's duty by one's own children," said
Ralph to Colonel Guyse, to whom he had imparted his
opinions rather freely on this matter ; " else I feel very
much inclined to cut the Viscount."

But why so ? " had asked Colonel Guyse.

Because he ought to have made my father leave
me double what he has left us all. He influenced every

VOL. III. L

particle of that will, I feel convinced; and  and he
ought to have one of my daughters to live at Hieover
with him, and provide for her handsomely and 
and "

Suppose he were to marry ? " suggested Colonel
Guyse.

Oh, he'll never do that; there we are quite safe,"
returned the Colonel. " Alick was always rather shy
of the ladies ; they are not much in his line."

But Mr Glascott, who was supposed to be a confirmed
bachelor, married, and married a young woman
too," persisted Colonel Guyse ; " you can never be
sure of what people will do where marriage is concerned.
Don't you remember the speech of old Lady
Wiggins, when her son expressed his surprise at a
Puritan parson marrying an actress,  ' My dear, in the
matter of matrimony, I can believe anything of anybody.'
Sharp old lady that. I have no reason forgiving
you the advice ; but if I were you, I would
not trust to Alick's not marrying."

His friend hawed and puffed, and finally yielded to
Colonel Guyse's advice. This was to keep in with
his brother. " Duke, you know, is doing fairly well
in that Irish place, and Alick often goes down there,
and seems to be kind : don't spoil Duke's prospects by
irritating your brother," urged Colonel Guyse. "As you
wisely say, much must be endured for the sake of one's
children. However, it is a blessing that the Viscount
has taken so kindly to Marmaduke's wife," and with
this remark Colonel Guyse went his way.

Mary Clavering had lost two infants successively, and
at the time only the eldest born remained to this pair.
Immersed in scientific pursuit as Frank always was,
he still maintained, and showed that he maintained, a
proud affection for this child. This was peculiarly
pleasing to his wife, as he was never more than on
bowing acquaintance with the other babies, and it was
comforting to see that he could condescend to toy
with infancy, and take pleasure in the sports of his
little son.

This child was naturally of an unusually cold
nature ; but at the same time he entertained an
affection for his father which was almost passionate.
He neither suffered nor returned any caresses from
his mother or from any other person. It had been so
from his birth, and much grief had Mary suffered on
this account. During the last visit which the Glas-costs
paid to Tring he relaxed a little towards Lillian,
who certainly courted him as she had never courted
juvenile before. It was not by any means a usual
sight to behold Mrs Glascott walking about with
another woman's child in her arms, nor to see her
rise half-a-dozen times during a quarter of an hour
to find a ball, or inspect the bodiless heads of a handful
of the denizens of a iSToah's ark.

It was a pretty sight, however, and Mr Glascott
revelled therein. To Francis Clavering it was patent
enough that these attentions were paid because their
recipient was his son.

But although mollified by Mrs Glascott's amenities.

the boy was an argumentative precocious child, and
capable also of that reticence which is generally so
foreign to childhood. His father could only account
for this, as he manipulated his son's head phrenologically,
by the statement that the boy would maintain
his own in the world, and eventually make a good
sceptic.

But yet another death occurred at the end of that
five years, which considerably exercised the minds of
the collective family of La Touche. Aunt Kemble,
who had been throughout that time calmer and
much more rational under the management of Dr
Williams, failed suddenly. As is sometimes the
case in similar affections, the mind seemed all at
once to assert itself, and the last twenty-four hours
of that poor lady's life were as lucid as might be
those of a person who had always enjoyed sound
mental health.

She directed that her dear nephew Stephen should
be sent for, declaring that she died in charity with the
rest of her relations, but enjoining Dr Williams at the
same time not to send for any of them until the breath
was out of her body. She also reminded her physician
that her will was deposited with his lawyers, and
enjoined him to be firm in her nephew's interests,
should any dispute regarding the validity of the same
be attempted. Thus this innocent unoffending woman
took her leave of a world in which she had borne
much and suffered much and long.

She had the satisfaction of seeing her nephew before

the insensibility which so often mercifully precedes
dissolution set in. He had been in the room an
hour, and bade the last solemn farewell, when
patient and meek Aunt Arabella yielded up her
soul to God, and perhaps then learned the great
secret of the injustice and cruelty which are permitted
to break the hearts of the majority of human
creatures on this earth.

Mr La Touche, to do him justice, had intended to
attend the funeral ; but a severe attack of illness,
which really incapacitated him from moving, obliged
him to keep his bed. It had been decreed that to
bring the body up to Wheatley, where the family
vault was, would be an unnecessary expense. Mrs
Kemble could be buried in the locality in which her
death took place, and they would put up a small monument;
but Marcia thought and said that this last
should be the business of the Kemble connection.
Aunt Arabella had borne their name, and it was only
fair that some of that family should at least contribute
to the erection of a decent gravestone.

The " Kemble connection," however, declined to do
anything of the kind, and pointed out, with an accuracy
which was reduced to a day, how many years
the La Touche aunt had " enjoyed " the Kemble jointure.
Percival was quite ready for war on this point ;
but Marcia prevented him from writing an unseemly
letter, and finally abstracted from the housekeeping
accounts the sum which this nephew would have been
required to contribute had the gravestone in question

been set up as a joint tribute of the family to Mrs
Kemble's memory.

The appearance of the will, however, upset all these
glimmerings of respect towards the deceased. The
elder Mr La Touche was too ill to be angry ; but he
gave his wife extra trouble in nursing him, and once
refused his soup on the strength of his disappointment.
Marcia could not have believed it, and felt sure that
Stephen would divide Aunt Kemble's money fairly
betwixt his father and herself, the only two remaining
lives of the elder generation  the old gentleman in
the Dumfries asylum going for nothing in this estimate.
Tiresome as Stephen had been about that
Heine business, still his aunt always gave him credit
for being commonly honest, &c. ; and so she went on
until she almost talked herself into the belief that
this nephew had a hand in drawing up Mrs Kemble's
testamentary document.

It was very fortunate that so much care had been
taken at the first to prevent the least accident, which
might serve as a pretext for disputing the deceased
lady's intentions, or questioning her capability of
managing her affairs.

Her trustee was alive, as was also the lawyer who
had received Mrs Kemble's instructions previous to
preparing her will. Dr Williams and Mr Fanshawe
could, if necessary, testify to the fact of Mrs Kemble
having surrendered the document, by their hands, into
legal safe-keeping.

The crowning evidence, however, was contained ina

letter which Mr La Touche addressed to his sister,
negotiating the sale of a horse at the time of her
widowhood.

In that epistle the brother gave Mrs Kemble much
credit for the manner in which she was disposing of
her superfluous goods, and warmly praised her for her
tact and sound commonsense. It may, perhaps, be
added that Mr La Touche hoped to procure the animal
at a much lower price than it was really worth ; consequently
his expressions may be taken with some
limitation and question.

However, the epistle which contained them stood
Stephen in very good stead : a few furious letters
were written, and threatening measures were also
resorted to, but these were of course futile. Stephen
proved the will, and no opposition of any kind occurred.


The amount which was bequeathed him was not
very much, and his relatives were not, perhaps, so
much aggrieved at the loss of the money as they were
provoked at his getting the whole sum. It was also
considered a terrible deceit that a will of Aunt
Kemble's should have been laid up in lavender for so
many years without the slightest knowledge on the
part of her immediate family  except the party most
interested  that it had ever existed.

This so affronted Percival that he thought it good
to invade Dr Williams and demand explanations  as
his brother no longer, on account of the insolence of
their style, took any notice of his letters. Arriving at

the physician's establishment, he there comported
himself so outrageously, that the latter began to be
alarmed lest he should be compelled to detain this
relative of his late patient, and secure him in a strong-room
as a decidedly dangerous lunatic.

A hint to this effect quickly toned down the current
of Percival's wrath. Dr Williams was a strong man,
and strong keepers also pervaded the premises. He
thought it well, therefore, having unburdened his
mind, to obey the doctor's directions, which were that
he should quit the house immediately, and trouble
that place no more.

Although Stephen gained some advantage from his
legacy in one sense, his possession of it served materially
to embitter the estrangement which existed
between himself and his family. His father's wife
had been unremitting in her endeavours that her
husband and his son should at least become outwardly
reconciled, and Stephen had gone down to Wheatley
shortly after the marriage, and had been graciously
received. Mrs La Touche was gratified at the respect
with which he treated her, and also at the candour
with which the young man spoke to her of his love-affairs.
He could not, he said, understand why, having
married to his own liking, his father should be so
pertinacious in refusing his consent to his engagement
with Miss Clavering.

Mrs La Touche solved this enigma, and it is possible
that her solution was much nearer the point than
any that Stephen might have suggested to himself.

It is all very well laying it on Percival," said she.
I haven't served in your house without knowing
how he rules my 'husband and Miss Marcia, and all on
account of the money ; but I know also that in their
hearts his opinion does not go for very much. No,
Mr Stephen, it isn't Percival that is the actual drawback."


"Who?  what, then?" inquired Stephen in astonishment.


To my mind, the fault just lies between the two
old gentlemen  your father and Mr Glascott. They
have pleased themselves in their own marriages, but
that won't do you or Miss Clavering any good. The
real truth is that they are obstinate, and they are both
offended at each other for daring to disapprove of the
engagement of their young people. My 'husband is
dreadfully put out at Mr Glascott making such a
strong point of the insanity objection ; he has often
come over it with me."

But you know," urged Stephen, " that Mr Glascott
has promised to give his consent, and overlook these
scruples, if Miss Clavering and I are of the same mind
at the end of seven years : so, you see, he, at any rate,
is not altogether obstinate."

Yes ; but your father has hoped, somehow, that
something will occur to cause you or her to change
your minds, or get tired of the thing. He fancies
that the Glascotts look down upon the La Touches
on account of  of  the infirmity."

I don't think so ; and even if you are right in this

conjecture, it does not much matter. Just keep Percival
from meddling, if you can, Mrs La Touche ;
all will go well, if he is kept out of the way. By
the by, is Aunt Marcia to live as usual at Hinton
Square ? "

"Yes; I thought you knew," answered Mrs La
Touche ; " your brother has bought the house, and
your aunt is to be there just the same as in my
'husband's time. Two of the girls are to live entirely
with them, and we've got Anna ; she is never to
leave us."

How is she going on ? " inquired Stephen ; " is she
better ? "

Very much. Her mind would be all right, if we
could but get rid of those terrible fits ; it's they as
keep her back. She is very happy with her dogs and
her flowers, and she is not worried with lessons."

But I hope she is not allowed to run quite wild,"
said Miss Anna's brother.

No ; the lady who teaches at the rectory comes
here every other day and gives her some instruction.
Mrs Laurence says she is doing very well. I am sorry
she is out ; but I hope, when I come next to London,
to bring her to see you," replied Mrs La Touche.

Mind you do ; I shall always be glad to see you.
Aunt Marcia has been to my chambers once ; but she
is too much in awe of Percival to venture often. Of
course I never go to Hinton Square."

Mrs La Touche hoped that this state of things would
not long continue. It was unkind, and it was foolish.

Stephen might feel sure that she did her best to keep
the peace ; but, under the circumstances, he must
understand that she had to walk almost as warily asa
cat upon hot bricks.

Stephen laughed at this simile, and then returned
to town. His business was increasing, and it was not
often that he could absent himself many hours from
London. He went in his vacations to Marmaduke's
retreat in Ireland, which bore the name of Dunlashoe,
but which, both in pronunciation and orthography,
was corrupted into the appellative " Drumshakey " by
Colonel Leppell. But what was the odds ? The inhabitants
of that remote region were happy and busy.
It was a delightful house for visitors ; and Marmaduke
Leppell never regretted the day when he decided to
cut gay life and take to the country, and with his wife
and their friend keep out of harm's way.

The Claverings occasionally came up to town for
amusement; but as the years went by, these visits
became fewer. Francis was busier than ever, and
Mary Clavering's nursery party occupied much of her
time and attention. Willina went once a - year to
Tring, and then paid what she termed a duty visit to
Brydone.

Lillian, colder and more stately than ever, was the
idol of her husband, whose sole delight seemed to consist
in gratifying her utmost wish. She was a woman
totally above the paltriness of little whims ; and it
must be conceded that she was always most attentive
and watchful towards her husband.

She had much advanced in her geological studies,
and it was currently reported that she was writing a
dissertation upon the rock formation of the Channel
Islands, in conjunction with that eminent scientist, Mr
Clavering.

On one of the occasions of Willina's visits to Tring,
it happened that some business connected with his
farming pursuits obliged Duke Leppell to come to
London.

He took advantage of the opportunity to stay with
his sister, and to urge her to return to Dunlashoe with
himself and Miss Clavering, there to pay Peggy a long-promised
visit. He was not particularly delighted on
arriving at Tring to find that the Glascotts had made
their appearance only a few days before, purposing to
remain the guests of the Claverings for the period of
a fortnight or three weeks.

There was an awkwardness in meeting Mr Glascott,
as it was natural there should be ; and there was an
undefinable dislike in meeting Mrs Glascott, which,
though not as natural, perhaps, was still quite as decided,
and which rose to positive aversion.

Still the inevitable must be faced, and Duke comforted
himself with the idea that in this meeting he
might discover why it was that neither he nor his wife
had ever been invited to enter Brydone.

His conscience answered the question as far as
the husband was concerned ; but he had yet to
learn how far the wife was informed respecting the
occurrences which had brought Mr Glascott, after

a lapse of years, again in contact with the Leppell
race.

He had never forgiven Mrs Lillian for the cold
epistle which she had indited him on the occasion
of his mother's death : this, coupled with the marked
neglect shown towards Peggy as well as himself,
served to render Duke very hostile towards Mrs Glas-cost.
It was only the remembrance that she was the
wife of the man to whom he owed so much that enabled
him to speak of her with common patience ; and
here she was under the same roof, spoiling the pleasure
which he had promised himself in the society of his
sister Mary.

Willina was not one whit more gratified ; but she
had bravely encountered Mrs Glascott in successive
yearly visits, and bore with her coldness for her
guardian's sake.

She smoothed down Duke's ruffled feathers, and
managed to make the young gentleman understand
that it would be paying Mrs Glascott too high a compliment
were he to appear to resent that lady's neglect
of his wife and himself. " Just meet her as if you
had only parted yesterday," counselled Miss Clavering ;
and if you want to be very malicious, assume that
Lillian sees a great deal of her mother and sisters at
Brydone."

But I suppose she does," said Marmaduke.

"Not a bit of it. Etta Fanshawe and the rector
have paid one visit during the six years she has
been married, and Mrs Fanshawe has never set her

foot in her daughter's home. Mrs Glascott gives
out that her husband's house is not to be looked
upon as a happy hunting-ground for her own poor
relations."

What a shame ! " exclaimed Duke, who was really
scandalised at the cool heartlessness of this speech, as
reported. " My sisters have stayed with the Glascotts
once or twice, I believe," continued he.

Yes ; but Mrs Glascott owes something to your
father, who really made the match. But T certainly
think she does not care much for having visitors at
Brydone  that is, for a long time together. But
there's the dressing-bell ; make ready as soon as you
can, and I will be in the way to back you up when
the awful moment arrives."

Awful, indeed ! " said Duke, as he rose to go to
his room. " The idea of my being nervous at meeting
Lillian, whom I used to romp with and tumble in the
hay,  it's too absurd ! But such is life ; and, after
all, Lillian can't forget that she owes her present good
position to my father."

They met, and Marmaduke comported himself towards
Mrs Glascott exactly as Miss Clavering had
advised.

You are looking well, I am glad to see, Mrs Glas-cost,"
said Duke, after bowing low over the hand
which that lady presented. " Got a little stouter,
perhaps ; but that is an improvement in your case.
Been to Hunter's Lodge lately ? "

Mrs Glascott, though rather astonished at Armature's

sang froid, was still more so as she scanned the
personal appearance of that gentleman.

The handsome jaunty lad, conceited and boisterous,
was now toned down into a remarkably fine-looking
man  stalwart as his father, but still carrying in the
lines about his mouth that expression of weakness
which had been so conspicuous in his mother's
physique.

All this Mrs Glascott marked ; but it was the alteration
in the tone and general bearing of her old companion
which quite staggered her. How well he
looks, and how fashionably he is dressed ! thought
she. As this appreciation ran through her mind, she
replied at the same moment that she had not been to
Hunter's Lodge for a long time.

Ah ! I daresay you feel it a trial to visit it after 
now that the household is  is so changed," quoth
Marmaduke.

Yes ; and, you see, Lady Asher is becoming so
much more infirm, and requires so much attention
now, that it is a kindness to Clara to keep away.
Your father, as you know, exacts as much attention
as ever he did ; but he is not quite so noisy, I am
told, as of yore. Quiet, also, is life to your grandmother
; and she must be preserved at any sacrifice."

Thus Mrs Glascott, who spoke of Lady Asher as if
that dame were a pine-apple or some kind of fruit
which must be put away in candied syrup and bide
time to suit the purposes of other people. Her husband
came up at this moment and welcomed the son

of his old acquaintance, saying that it was the first
time, he believed, that he had the pleasure of seeing
him.

Marmaduke's face became crimson in an instant.
Upon perceiving this, Mr Glascott, who had been
studying how best to put the young fellow at his ease,
hesitated in what he had begun to say next, and finally
stood dumb.

None present, with the exception of Mrs Glascott,
understood the real reason of this mutual embarrassment,
but generally attributed it to some reminiscence
on the part of Duke of his captivity in her Majesty's
prison at Holloway. Lillian, who had never in their
closest confidences allowed her husband to know that
she was in any way cognisant of Duke's secret, thought
it proper at this juncture to effect a diversion, so in
her quiet calm tones she turned to her sister-in-law
and said 

What enormous fires you people keep here ! one
would think we were in the middle of winter. Your
brother, Mary, is half roasted. Living so much in the
open air, as you must do, Mr Leppell, I do not wonder
at your feeling this atmosphere."

Then the trio fell to talking with vigour anent the
difference between the heat emitted by coal and that
emitted by burning bog-turf solely, and before this
subject was thoroughly exhausted came the announcement
that dinner was served.

Marmaduke was still puzzled as to the extent of Mrs
Glascott's knowledge concerning his affairs ; but was

very much comforted on getting a few words later in
the evening with Willina, to hear her say, " You must
not think so much of that detention of yours in the
Court of Chancery ; it makes you appear so much embarrassed
in society. I saw what was ailing you the
moment Mr Glascott came up."

"Then you think the same idea occurred to Mrs
Glascott ? " said Duke.

Certainly. This is the first time, mind, that you
have met, either of you, since her marriage and your
imprisonment ; but I think she turned the subject most
adroitly, for she evidently discerned what was passing
in your mind, and did her best to cover your confusion."


"That was kind of her anyhow," replied Armature.
He was now fully satisfied that Lillian knew
nothing of the more serious matter, and he blessed
Mr Glascott for his discretion.

The days sped pleasantly, and they were really
halcyon ones to Mrs Clavering, who still mourned her
dead infants, and who was not treated with particular
sympathy in this matter by her husband. Neither
was Lillian much more tender. " Babies were all very
well in moderation," remarked that matron ; " but in
these days they were expensive luxuries, and the
quantities of education which were to be crammed into
the rising generation would make employment for
males and marriage for females alike difficult." Besides,
Mary must know they were better off wherever
they were. Life in this century was so difficult to

VOL. III. M

live, and then Mrs Clavering was recommended not
to worry herself, for she was young enough to have a
very large family.

In order to emphasise her opinion, Mrs Glascott
thought fit to congratulate Duke upon his being free
from the anxieties of a nursery of young children.

Duke did not respond to this intended piece of benevolence,
and informed Mrs Glascott that he was
thankful to be able to tell her that he hoped in a very
short time to become one of the fraternity of Paterfamilias.
It was for this reason," he added, looking
very hard at Lillian, " that Mrs Leppell had not accompanied
him to England at the present time."

Mrs Glascott interpreted the meaning of Armature's
look, and said something about hoping to see
Mrs Leppell at some future time. Then she rose to
prepare for a long walk with Mr Clavering.

It had now become such an accepted matter of
course that the two should dig and delve, and " do
science " together, that no one seemed to think it unusual
behaviour for these enthusiasts to act with such
perfect independence of their respective spouses as
they each habitually did. Mr Glascott did not appear
to disapprove of these proceedings, and, hitherto, Mary
had been so much taken up with her children that she
had encouraged both her husband and her friend to make
much of each other's society ; and certainly Lillian
rendered good aid to Frank in the preparation of his
geological lectures.

Willina, however, had latterly begun to take alarm.

Mr Clavering had excused himself one morning for
being obliged to be absent from Tring for the space of
a couple of days. A struggle was going on in London
about a professorship which Francis was very anxious
to win, and which he thought he had some chance of
gaining.

He accordingly went ; gained the professorship with
less trouble than he had thought possible ; gave a
brilliant lecture to a crowded and appreciative audience
at Birmingham ; and returned to his home unexpectedly
in the middle of the third day after his
departure from thence.

Mr Glascott had ridden into the country-town for
letters, and Willina and Marmaduke had been busily
assisting Mary in the arrangement of her flower-garden
and tying up some chrysanthemums, of which flower
she was particularly fond. The boy, after the manner
of children, was in and out, and had finally gone into
the house to Lillian to claim a promise of being shown
some pictures, which had been promised him in the
morning. The boy was becoming very fond of Mrs
Glascott, so much so that his mother was half tempted
to allow him to go to Brydone with his friends, as had
been proposed by Lillian. Willina had advised her
sister-in-law to consent to this, urging that the separation
would probably make the child yearn to return to
her after the first excitement of the change was over.
You know," said Willina, " you wait upon him hand
and foot, and he bullies you and tyrannises over you
without mercy."

My child  my only child now ! " said poor Mary ;
what would I not do to gain his love ! "

Let him feel the want of his mother, and depend
upon it he will value her and gladly return to her."

I hope so ; I trust so ; but oh, Willina ! I do yearn
for a little love ; my poor dead babies rendered me
that." She said no more, but she turned away with
her eyes full of tears.

Marmaduke just then came up. " I have been
working like a nigger," said he, " and I do think, Mrs
Clavering, that, as I work without wages, you might
order me some beer. However, at present I will be
content with some more matting wherewith to tie up
the rest of those chrysanthemums ; where can I find
any ? "

Mary, for answer, asked Willina to go to the hothouse,
and she indicated the spot where this material
could be found. " I shall keep you here, Duke," she
said, " for if you go you will only upset the flowers
and search in the wrong part. A man never finds a
thing so quickly as does a woman in a strange place."

Willina hied away, and, on gaining the hothouse,
was rather surprised to find the door opposite to the
one by which she had entered wide open, and the
green baize porridge which hung in its interior threshold
lowered. This was the smoking-room, the door
of which Francis had always been very particular in
keeping closed and locked unless the room were in use.
A tramp had entered, via that hothouse, not long before,
and had cleared off almost every portable thing

upon which he could lay his hands ; consequent upon
this, an order had been issued that this particular door
should be kept locked, and the other entrance to the
room be generally used.

Hearing voices within, and recognising that of her
brother, AVillina hastened forward and raised one end
of the green curtain in order to greet him. She was
anxious, naturally, to know if he had won the professorship,
and was entering the room with an inquiry
on her lips. The sight that met her view was such
as to cause her to stand for a moment or two with the
corner of the portiere in her hand, and her feet rooted
almost to the ground.

There sat Lillian Glascott on a low couch, Francis
Clavering kneeling at her feet, with his head bowed
almost into her lap ; at the same time the lady
was smoothing his hair with most caressing tenderness.
" All  all is owing to you," he was saying ;
you animate my thoughts, you give me genius,  oh,
Lillian 1 in the hour of success I hear but your voice
alone in the applause of the multitude, and I long to
liy at once and pour out my thanks at your feet."

Willina let the edge of the curtain fall : it slipped,
in fact, unknowingly out of her hand, and she had
just sense enough to recede some yards as she heard
Marmaduke coming after her, calling out at the pitch
of his lungs his supposition that she was making that
matting.

Darting to the shelf whereon it was kept, she tore
down some strands, and was at the garden door of the

hothouse just as Duke was turning the handle to
come in.

Why, what on earth is the matter ? " inquired he,
as he saw Willina's face pale to the lips,  " how ill you
look. Come into the air  the sickly scent of some of
these plants has upset you. I abominate hothouses :
they are nothing more than a conspiracy against fresh
air."

Willina acknowledged that she had very suddenly
experienced a sensation of deadly sickness, with its
attendant symptoms of faintness. " I think I will go
into the house and take some ginger cordial," said
she, " for I am so cold. Don't say anything to Mary ;
111 be out again in a few minutes."

Marmaduke went with her to the hall-door. Just
as they ascended the steps they saw Mr Clavering
walking leisurely in the direction of the flower-garden.


There's your brother, by George ! " exclaimed he.
I suppose he has just come home, and is going to
find Mary and tell her the news."

Very likely," said Willina ; " do you, like a good
fellow, go and hear it too, and mind, don't say
anything about me. This indisposition is merely
temporary, and will soon pass over."

Duke sped away, and Miss Clavering entered the
house.

Her resolution was taken : that was to find Mrs
Glascott at once, and tell her what she had seen and
heard. It was a dreadful task to undertake; but

Willina felt that if she did not act quickly, she never
would be able to approach the subject. It was her
duty towards Mary; it was a duty towards Mr Glas-cost
; it was well, also, to let Mrs Glascott understand
that she  Willina  would not suffer such a breach of
honour without remonstrance.

She found Mrs Glascott in the drawing-room,
working at an embroidery frame, and apparently in
her usual placid state of mind. No sign of disquietude
left its trace upon her well-cut features ; no trouble
clouded her brilliant eyes ; she pursued her task with
fingers that neither trembled nor failed.

Willina walked up to her, and without preamble
said, " I have a few words to say to you, Mrs Glas-cost,
and you will pardon my apparent abruptness
when I tell you that, by pure accident, I witnessed
part of the scene which has so lately taken place
between you and my brother in the smoking-room
below."

Lillian, thus suddenly brought to account, and being
at the same time thoroughly unprepared for what she
now heard, stared at Willina in wonder and remained
silent. She was speculating in her own mind where
Miss Clavering could have been ; for it was the shouting
of Marmaduke which had startled the pair, and
warned them to separate and go their several ways.

As no reply was returned, Willina continued, " I do
not wish to annoy you, Mrs Glascott, nor to cause you
pain,  your conscience must eventually do that,  butin
my brother's house I have a right to ask that you

will give me your promise that what I have witnessed
shall never occur again : it is only out of regard to
my sister-in-law that I do not go to Francis at once
and tell him that I should leave the house if he would
not give me a like guarantee."

"And by what right do you interfere in matters
which are quite beyond your concern ? " said Mrs Glass
finding voice ; " and why do you set yourself in
judgment upon me and upon Mr Clavering ? "

You seem to forget that Mr Clavering is my
brother. Is his honour and the happiness of his
wife to be as nothing in my sight ? " returned Willina,
indignantly.

"Your brother is very well able to take care of
himself," Mrs Glascott retorted. "Allow me to intimate,
that in speaking as you do, you are taking a
liberty which I would not allow to his wife  who was
my old friend, before I ever saw your face or heard
your name."

Friend ! " exclaimed Willina, scornfully ; " can you
regard your conduct as that of a friend, when you
lure the husband from the side of his wife, and do
everything in your power to lower her in his estimation,
and that upon the strength of your intellectual
superiority ? "

"Mrs Clavering  Mary  makes no objection," returned
Lillian, steadily. " Your brother's tastes and
studies are not congenial to her. She has declared
this from the first, and in consequence she has been
glad to secure me as as a fellow worker in helping

him to prepare his lectures and so forth. Mr Clavering
only speaks the truth when he declares that he
owes much of his success to my aid."

A mistake," answered AVillina  " still, I hope, nota
fatal one. ]diary should never have allowed this ;
but she is as innocent and unsuspicious as a child.
You ought to be ashamed of so far betraying her
confidence."

The fact that this confidence exists should, I
think, Miss Clavering, entitle me to respect, and most
certainly it ought to exempt me from unworthy suspicion."


As she spoke, Mrs Glascott drew herself up proudly
and looked so defiant, that, for a moment, Willina
doubted whether she might not be mistaken ; but the
scene she had witnessed athwart the torture rose so
vividly to her recollection, that she felt she must
now speak out at all hazards or for ever hold her
peace.

I think it but honest to tell you, Mrs Glascott,"
said Miss Clavering, in an equable but very incisive
tone, " that you have within the last half-hour laid
yourself open to very grave suspicion. Unaware that
my brother had returned, I came to the hothouse on
an errand for Mary ; the sound of Frank's voice drew
me to the 'torture of the smoking-room. I lifted it,
and it certainly was with the utmost surprise that I
saw him on his knees at your feet, whilst you allowed
him to caress you, and at the same time permitted the
warmest expressions of tenderness without reproof or

any attempt at repulse. Now, if such conduct be
friendship towards Mary, I should very much like
to know what, in your vocabulary, treachery really
means ? "

Mrs Glascott made no reply. She looked as if she
had been turned into stone.

You would not," Willina went on to say,  " you
would not have permitted these liberties in the presence
of Mr Glascott, who, I should imagine, is entitled
to some share of your consideration."

My conduct as a wife is beyond question," said
Lillian ; " no one can accuse me of neglecting my
husband. I am always at his side."

Miss Clavering's indignation increased, as she
listened to this evasion of the point at issue. " Have
a care, madam," said she. " Cousin Everard is an old
man, unsuspecting and generous as the day in all
things ; but, believe me, should he ever find Frank
or any other man toying with his wife, as I saw
my brother toy with you this day, dire mischief will
come of it. Yes ; he would wellnigh strangle you on
the spot, and  serve you right well I "

Lillian visibly paled, despite her wonderful self-control
: her lips parted, and dragged themselves sofar
asunder as to reveal her white even teeth clenched
together as in a vice. At length in a grating tone she
spoke 

Any other man ! what do you mean ? Granting
that I did allow Mr Clavering the privileges of an old
and intimate friend, does that give you the right to

insult me and to lecture me in the way you have
just done ? "

"I do not, I suppose, understand the privileges
which are bestowed and accepted by some married
persons in the absence of their partners," returned
Miss Clavering ; " but I hold the belief that the
woman who is false with one is very liable to be
false with others. I do not wish to insult you, and
you will pardon me, perhaps, for saying that I hail
your indignation as a good sign."

Why, for what reason ? " demanded Lillian.

The reason is this," said Miss Clavering. " I am
quite ready to believe that in the excitement of success
Frank was carried beyond his usual imperturbability,
and because you greatly contribute to his
triumphs, he was unusually demonstrative in his
gratitude. You, probably, were too much elated to
recognise at the moment that you were both conducting
yourselves in an extravagant manner."

Mrs Glascott made no reply to this generous interpretation
of the position. She was silent awhile,
then looking up suddenly she said 

I conclude Mr Leppell did not see us."

No, fortunately for you, he did not. He called to me
before he got inside the hothouse, and I had dropped
the curtain and retired to the far end. To mask the
agitation which I could not conceal, and to save you,
I told him that I had been taken suddenly very faint
and sick."

To save me  us  from Duke Leppell ! " exclaimed

Lillian, in a most sarcastic tone of voice ; " that is
really too absurd."

You would both of you have found it otherwise
than absurd had Mr Leppell been in my place," answered
Miss Clavering. " I do not see why you should
mention him so contemptuously. He may have been a
wild youth ; but a kinder, more devoted husband does
not exist. Eemember, too, he is Mrs Clavering's brother."

I do remember it," returned Lillian ; " but I tell
you Duke Leppell is not, nor ever can be, in a position
to sit in judgment on the morality or otherwise of
any human being. He is too deeply committed forme
to congratulate myself that he was not a witness
of what, I will allow, was a momentary indiscretion."

"I don't understand your insinuations ; pray speak
plainly. What have you to say against the man to
whose parents you are indebted for years of kindness,
and to whom you, in a great measure, owe your present
good position in the world ? "

Willina was, perhaps, unwise in making use of this
last taunt ; but there was something so insolent, and
at the same time so triumphant, in Mrs Glascott's
tone, that this would have tried the patience of a
person of much more experience than Miss Clavering
in the art of recrimination. However, she fixed her eyes
steadily on the face of her antagonist, awaiting a reply.

Stung by what Willina had just said, the answer
came more quickly and with more vehemence than
Mrs Glascott was wont to employ. Still, it was
neither quite straightforward nor quite definite.

"You have elected to reside at Dunlashoe as a
member of Mr Leppell's household, and are therefore
no doubt able to recognise some of that gentleman's
redeeming qualities. At the same time, has it never
occurred to you as being rather remarkable that a manlike
him should betake himself entirely to an unknown
region in Ireland, and all of a sudden give up his associates,
seldom visit his family, and altogether adopt a
manner of living almost in opposition to that in which
he has been brought up ? I can tell you there is a
reason for this, which cannot bear the light."

What is it ? " returned Willina, slowly. " I know
of none beyond the fact that Duke and his wife are
wise enough and courageous enough to avoid the temptation
of living beyond their means, and have thus removed
themselves from an atmosphere of extravagance.
Moreover, they have not given up society, as you seem
to infer; they are both very popular, and visit in
moderation, both in the country and in Dublin.
What is the reason, I claim to know, which cannot
bear the light ? "

That Marmaduke Leppell is a thief and a forger 1 "
returned Mrs Glascott, with a face ghastly white.

Willina did not blench. " Do you state this on
your own knowledge, or on the authority of another
person ? " she asked.

On the authority of two persons cognisant of the
fact."

I will trouble you once more. Was Mr Glascott,
my cousin and my guardian, one of these persons ? "

This question rather staggered Mrs Glascott. She
was at a loss to discover for what reason it had been
put ; her uncertainty kept her silent for some seconds.

Willina waited patiently, keeping her eyes all the
while fixed on Lillian's face. The intensity of her
gaze seemed greatly to discompose the latter.

As you cannot or will not answer me, Mrs Glas-cost,
I have only one course left open, and this is to goto
my guardian at once and demand an explanation.
Of course, it will be also necessary for me to acquaint
him with what I have seen. Once more, did you derive
this knowledge concerning Mr Leppell from your
husband ? "

Thus driven to bay, Lillian declared that she did
not. " Mr Glascott," she said, " was not even aware
that I possessed this information. Having allowed
this much, you surely do not intend to make mischief
between me and my husband," she continued, in a tone
which was almost one of entreaty. " Perhaps I ought
not to have spoken as I did ; but I could not brook the
idea of Marmaduke Leppell being put en evidence
against me  your manner seemed to threaten that."

Willina merely made a gesture of contempt. " All
I have to say now is, that should Mr Leppell suffer in
the future any annoyance or slight, and I can trace it
as the effect of evil report coming from you, I must
inquire further into the matter. At present I am content
to let your malicious statement rest unchallenged,
as it is with my guardian's approbation that
I live at Dunlashoe ; and also, as neither Frank nor

Mary nor myself have ever heard this extraordinary
charge."

"What I have stated is true, nevertheless," said
Lillian.

I hope it is some exaggeration of what cannot he
refuted  namely, Duke's former recklessness in money
matters ; and from his having written letters when in a
state of intoxication. All this is of the past ; let us
look to ourselves, and have mercy upon those who are
trying to amend their faults. As I told you before,
you are safe from Mr Leppell. He certainly remarked
that Francis must have entered the house by the
smoking-room ; and he saw my brother go out of the
house into the garden as he escorted me within doors.
I mention these facts, lest at some future time you
may think proper to deny this whole transaction, and
perhaps accredit me with inventing a pure fiction."

Miss Clavering delivered this with much emphasis
of look and voice, and then turned and left the room.

CHAPTER IX.

1 PROPOS DES DIAMANTS.

Miss Clavering's trials of friendship for that day
were not quite over. She had gone to her room early
in the evening to fetch some fancy work, when Mrs
Clavering followed her, and entered the room with her
face bathed in tears. She carried in her hand the case
which contained her parure of jewels.

Why, Mary, what is the matter ? " her sister-in-law
inquired. " What has happened to distress you ? "

I have had an unpleasant scene with Frank," Mrs
Clavering replied. " He is so angry at the appearance
of these diamonds. He says that I have neglected
them, and that this one"  indicating a stone in the
centre of a clasp  " cannot be a real gem ; it is a
queer colour certainly. He also insists that the whole
set is composed of inferior stones, but we all know
that cannot be the case. What do you think ? "

Willina examined the jewels as requested, and was
reluctantly compelled to admit that they were very
different in appearance to those possessed by Mrs

Glascott. " Has she got her parure with her ? " asked
Miss Clavering.

]Neo ; it is at the bank in London. The Glascotts
are going there for a month, and will return hereto
finish their visit. My husband is going to ask
Lillian to bring her set here to compare it with mine.
He thinks that my father has been imposed on by
that Frenchman, and that I have not kept them
properly."

Mary, will you intrust that case to me ? I am
going to Linton, and shall pass through London.
That centre stone is very suspicious looking, and there
is a cloudy haze over the whole set, which certainly
ought not to be there ; so I will take these diamonds,
if you will allow me, to Starr & Flashes at once,
and get their opinion. Say no more about the matter
to Frank ; he will do nothing till Mrs Glascott returns."


Mrs Clavering thankfully caught at the offer, embraced
her sister, and felt considerably relieved in
mind as she placed the case of jewels in her keeping.

As soon as Mary left the room, Willina set to work
to ascertain whether the stones were really pure diamonds,
and also if any tangible reason could be assigned
for the peculiar appearance of a centre stone to
which Mrs Clavering had drawn her attention. But
no amount of cleaning which Miss Clavering could
employ was at all serviceable in removing the dull
mist which pervaded the whole of the jewels, or even
in modifying this very visible defect.

VOL. HI. N

She hardly wondered that Francis had reproached
his wife with carelessness with respect to them ; still
less that he should suspect some inferiority in the
stones themselves, and desire to inspect the parure
belonging to Mrs Glascott before applying to some
jeweller for an explanation of the peculiar appearance
which tarnished the set possessed by Mrs Clavering.

There was no time to lose, for the Glascotts were to
finish their visit to Tring within the month, and it was
evident to Willina that these jewels should be tested
without further delay. An impression pervaded her
mind that Colonel Leppell (through whose hands they
had passed) might have been imposed upon, and unwittingly
had allowed false stones to be substituted
for the real ones. She would seek an expert in London,
and then go on to Hunter's Lodge.

This was done ; and Willina, to her dismay, but not
much to her surprise, was informed that it required no
difficult test to prove that the stones were composed
of paste  very good composition and imitation, but
paste  nothing more nor less.

She went straight to Colonel Leppell, told him what
she had done, and why she had so acted. After some
skirmishing, Ralph was forced to acknowledge that he
was wholly to blame in the matter.

You must replace the jewels," said Willina. " From
what you have admitted, I am obliged to believe that
you wilfully substituted the paste stones."

What am I to do ? " cried Ralph, aghast. " I have
no means of raising money just now, for I have been

paying off here and there for years ; and now that I
have succeeded in getting rid of my most pressing
debts, this comes upon me. It is deuced hard ! "

Willina bit her lip, and then said, in her kind imploring
voice, " Think how hard it would be, Colonel
Leppell, for Mary, between my brother and Mrs Glas-cost
 how humiliated and hurt she would be ; and for
yourself, if the matter were taken up seriously, you
might be placed in a very awkward position. Don't
you see that yourself ? "

"Mrs Glascott  Lillian  would never go against me,"
the Colonel answered, sharply. " Why, she owes her
present position entirely to me and to poor Adelaide."

I know ; still the diamonds were Mr Glascott's
wedding-gift to your daughter, and if it be ascertained
that you have caused other stones to be substituted for
the real ones, a very solid pretence for a quarrel may be
raised, which would embitter Mary's happiness forever.
Nay, more, she may be accused of some knowledge
of, or even of complicity in, the matter; and
should her husband bring himself to believe this, I
tremble for the consequences."

Ralph was silent for a moment, and appeared to be
rather impressed with what "Willina had advanced.

Do you think," he said at length, " that if I were
to write to Clavering, and explain all the circumstances
of the case, he would understand the matter,
and grant me time wherein to replace the jewels ? I
could promise him that."

I cannot tell ; but, if possible, avoid putting yourself

in the power of either Mrs Glascott or my brother.
As the matter stands, the one can hardly be made
aware of the truth without the other."

"Well, manage it in this way. Let me write confidentially
to Lillian Glascott ; she knows better than
most people how hampered I was at the time of Mary's
marriage, and what shifts I was put to in order to keep
my appointment. So she will quite understand the
temptation of raising money on the real diamonds."

Miss Clavering rather doubted this ; however she
only replied, " Perhaps my brother might not take so
sympathetic a view of the case : of course, I cannot
answer for Mrs Glascott."

Lillian will stand by me, if it were only for the
sake of my dead wife, and  I must say it  for many
former kindnesses received from us both. Perhaps
it would be better if I could see her."

Don't think of it, Colonel ; I know of a wiser plan,
and one which, if it succeeds, will be far more satisfactory
as well as secure."

"You surely would never advise me to apply to
Glascott ? "

Most certainly not ; I was thinking of your own
brother. Lord Hieover. Wliy not go to him and explain
everything ? "

Ralph gave a contemptuous laugh, accompanied by
a very deprecatory shrug of his shoulders. " Apply
to Alick ! " he said ; " it would be more easy to extract
blood from a stone than to get money out of him.
Wliy, of late years, I have not ventured to ask him to

lend me five pounds. It is strange, too, for when we
were boys together he was liberal enough."

You forget. Colonel. I would not pain you by
reverting to a past sorrow, but after Mrs Leppell died
Lord Hieover intrusted me with a sum of money to
hand to you. I shall not forget his words as he gave
me the packet  ' Ralph, poor fellow, must need money
sorely, and he will not like to borrow from me. He
knows how much Duke has cost us all.' I was greatly
struck with the delicacy and fine feeling which your
brother displayed at the time."

That money was for the funeral expenses," Colonel
Leppell replied, " and it was barely sufficient to cover
the whole cost. I looked upon that present as a
kind of way of making up to poor Adelaide for the
neglect with which my brother had treated her
latterly."

It may be so," returned Miss Clavering, resolutely.
Still, it was a kindly and a liberal gift ; and I think
that what your brother has done once for respect, he
will do again for honour."

The sum is large," said the Colonel, musingly.
I am sure Alick will never advance it ; he will seek
refuge in the plea that he cannot countenance  well, it
must out  a fraud, and so refuse outright."

You can but try : it is the only and the last chance.
Besides, you could pay off the sum in course of time,
should Lord Hieover insist upon making it a loan.
Take my advice. Colonel, and think of Mary."

I can't see why I should not put the matter before

Clavering himself," returned Colonel Leppell ; " he
would take the thing quietly for his own sake, and
would never stir up a scandal. I would rather appeal
to Francis than to Alick."

No, no ! " said Miss Clavering, more energetically
than she had yet spoken ; " don't think of such a thing.
It would be far better to own your  your errors to your
brother than to your son-in-law. You would change
positions entirely were you to give Frank this hold
over you. Besides, Lord Hieover can extricate you if
he chooses, for he has the means to do so. Frank,
even if he had the will, can only aid by quiescence,
and I am convinced he would never keep the matter
from Mrs Glascott."

What if he did not ? " inquired the Colonel,
brusquely. " What matter ? Lillian is our firm
friend."

If you will not apply to Lord Hieover yourself,"
continued Miss Clavering, totally ignoring the Colonel's
last remark, "will you trust the matter to me ? It may
seem presumptuous ; but if I could secure a hearing, I
think I could induce the Viscount to come to some
arrangement."

Ralph stared at her in amazement. " You are
plucky, and no mistake ; but I think you are scarcely
complimentary to your brother, haw ! "

"It is often more difficult to transact business,
especially money business, with relations than it is
with strangers," she replied. " I shall act as Mary's
sister-in-law, of course, and it is possible Lord Hieover

will lend me more attention when he is made aware
that my brother and his wife are both perfectly ignorant
of the whole procedure. Besides, Mary ought
not to suffer for the sins of other people  her happiness
should be paramount."

"That, I take it, would be paramount with her
husband," said the Colonel, sharply.

I know my brother better than you do, Colonel,"
Miss Clavering made answer; "he would dreadfully
resent being  being "

"Taken in," said Ralph, finishing the sentence-well,
he must resent it then, for I cannot and will
not apply to the Viscount."

"But you will let me do so for you," persisted
Willina, in her calm sweet voice ; " you will at least
aid me in endeavouring to secure peace to Mary ? I
love her very dearly, and I know that Frank thinks
so much of her possessing the finest diamonds in Fen-shire
; if he ever discovers the real truth, he would be
furious, and she, poor thing ! would have to bear the
brunt."

"Do you know," said Palpi, "that it is entirely
owing to my brother's influence that my father left
me a bare sum wherewith to pay my debts, and tied
me up with an annuity, as if I had been a base-born
son or an idiot ? Knowing this, do you wonder
at my being unwilling to ask any favour of the
Viscount ? "

Willina was silent for a moment. The position was
very embarrassing, for, naturally, she could not breathe

her suspicions concerning the intimacy which existed
between her brother and Mrs Glascott. She was
determined as to one thing the jewels must be replaced,
and replaced unknown to both Mr and Mrs
Clavering. At length she said 

Let me go to Lord Hieover, either as your emissary
or entirely in Mary's interests."

"You would be obliged to reveal the part I have
played in the affair ? " said the Colonel, in an interrogative
tone.

Certainly, without any reserve ; nothing less than
the whole truth would serve the purpose. Let your
brother recognise that you will not deceive him in the
slightest particular, although you cannot make up
your mind to face him."

And do you expect that Alick will exert himself
to put this matter straight, and hand you over the
value of the real stones ? "

I do," answered Willina, valiantly. " You have, I
suppose, the receipts for what you paid Mr Dupont
for both the sets, and a note of the abatement made
for the paste stones. Please let me have them, and
trust to my discretion."

What are you going to do ? " inquired the Colonel,
in amazement.

I have a plan in my head how all can be best
arranged ; but I will say nothing of this till I have
ascertained what Lord Hieover will really consent todo."


Women often achieve success where the other sex

utterly fail," the Colonel replied ; " only you know the
Viscount is not a lady's man, and that may make him
difficult to tackle. You want the Dupont receipts ?
I've got 'em somewhere."

As he spoke, Ralph crossed the room, and, opening
a large bureau, plunged into its depths. It was
full of papers, which the Colonel tossed from side
to side in his search : it was some time before he
could put his hand on the documents which were
required.

Here it is ! " he exclaimed ; " no  this is Chimer's
bill  Chimer for mending clock  um ! haw ! could
have done it as well myself; Slasher & Slime, two
pairs of hunting-boots ; Cricket, spurs and plated
stirrups  never had 'em ; Dinner, bill delivered ;
Peter Hurry, trainer  all paid, thank goodness !
Oh ! here it is. Dupont, Palais Royal, Paris 
diamonds  all right ; the receipts are together in
this envelope, with Dupont's estimate."

Willina looked through the papers, and found all
correct ; then she said  " You have promised to leave
all to me, Colonel ; believe me, what I propose to dois
the only possible way of escape  courage and
straightforward dealing may bring everything to very
satisfactory results."

You are sure you are game  I mean equal to this
undertaking ? " said Ralph, as he folded up the bills
and handed them to Willina. " You don't know
what a terrible thing it is to apply to my brother for
money."

I am not afraid," she said simply ; " I can but do
my best, and if I fail  but no, I will not think of
failure. Now, as to the manner of procedure. Clara
and I will ride over tomorrow early to Hieover, and
say we have come to luncheon. I will get hold of
your brother, and somehow I think I shall succeed in
fulfilling my mission ; we will say no more about that
now."

Ralph shook his head, and merely replied that he
wished she might succeed. It was very good of her
to go ; and it certainly would damage himself
irremediably in Mr Glascott's sight, were the substitution
of paste stones for real diamonds to be
discovered.

He admitted, also, that Willina was quite right.
It would never do for his son-in-law to hold such
power over him as a discovery of the fraud would
certainly entail. At the same time, it was all very
hard upon him, he said, and he could see no other way
out of the dilemma but to accede to Miss Clavering's
mode of procedure.

In this manner the Colonel talked himself out of
the difficulty, and, ostrich-like, blinded himself to the
fact of his own disgraceful behaviour, in the conviction
that the Viscount would shroud his dishonoured head
for the sake of the family name. " Alick would possibly
rave and say bitter things, and perhaps comedown
with the money," thought he ; " and it is a precious
good thing that he knows nothing about Duke's
former iniquities in the manner of appropriating other

A PROPOS DES DIAMANTS. 203

people's cash. Willina Clavering was a trump, and
he hoped she would win through  and that was all
about it."

So ruminating, Colonel Leppell turned to put his
bureau a little in order, and in so doing came across
the most heterogeneous mass of correspondence that
could well be brought together.

Bills, lawyers' letters, betting-books, racing-calendars,
and epistles from all sorts and conditions of men,
begging, in terms both moving and peremptory, for
immediate cash, formed the dominant stock of the
collection. Private letters and bills receipted in full
were decidedly in the minority.

Here was a boyish letter from Duke, begging for a
pony  this the Colonel almost caressed, and put aside
with a gentle hand ; there a note from his dead wife,
asking if he could not manage to send her a trifle, for
she was in straits as to how to keep the house. This
he looked at long and very reverently. The tears
welled up into the eyes of this rough daring man ashe
read line after line, and finally imprinted a kiss
on the page before he tore it up piece-meal. " Poor
Adelaide 1 dear Adelaide ! " he said, beneath his breath ;
none that come after me shall see that you have had
to beg me for money. What would I give to see your
face once more ! "

Thus, like sweet incense, the memory of this gentlewoman
rose before him. It calmed his spirit, and led
him to wish, and that sincerely, that towards her at
least he had acted more kindly and with more confidence.

Insensibly, his wife dead held more power
over him than she ever could have done whilst she
was in life. The time had now wellnigh arrived when
he could realise that in losing her he had indeed suffered
an irreparable loss.

A sharp letter, prompted by her attorney, and addressed
to him by the hand of old Lady Asher, caused
some revulsion to his feelings. Its tenor was to
inform him, and that decidedly, that the writer had
come to the conclusion never to give him another
farthing. It was also intimated, with a corresponding
vigour of style, that on any further application for
money from Colonel Leppell, Lady Asher would be
compelled to take up her abode in some other part of
the realm of England. This missive toned itself down
at the finale somewhat, by asserting that, as far as
was possible, Mrs Leppell and her children would
always be aided and assisted by the Colonel's obedient
servant, &c.

A grim smile first passed over Ralph's face, and
then he burst into a laugh. " Poor old lady ! " exclaimed
he ; " poor Lady Asher ! to fancy that I could
be humbugged into believing that she wrote that letter
of her own free will and intention. Still, I am very
much obliged to old Vellum for tying up the money
must confess. Shouldn't have had that four hundred
a-year for board now. And then to think of old
grandma lasting all this time ! Why, it is nearly eight
years since the doctors predicted she might not live a
year ! Says a good deal for Botheroo too. Lillian Glas-cost

was right. She always said that, with proper care
and Botheroo, grandma might last us all out."

This epistle was also torn up into minute atoms, and,
with several documents that followed, consigned to the
wastepaper-basket, with something very like enthusiasm.
The Colonel had worked himself by this time into the
belief that by clearing his bureau he was actually paying
off his bills.

He came to a large foolscap sheet of paper, which
had the air of a petition. On recognising this, the
Colonel burst into a vocal noise which might be a
fusion of a cracked trumpet and a view-halloo.

Old Swanson, the military tailor ! His letters were
splendid. Wonder where the fellow is now ! Well,
he had a great admiration for me. Haw ! May as
well see what he wrote, Lord knows how many years
ago."

The epistle, which was really unique, was an application
to the Colonel for recommendation as a military
tailor. It ran as follows : 

Honoured Sir,  Permit me to attempt to thank
you (for I have not in my vocabulary words sufficient
to do so) for your kind and courteous reception of so
humble an individual as myself on Friday last.

Sir, your abandonment of all etiquette, and receiving
me, as it were, on neutral ground' does infinite
honour to your heart, both as an officer and a gentleman.
Prior to the interview, I knew, and hope I
know now, and ever shall know, our relative positions

; but I knew also that you would be accessible,
and that your urbanity was proverbial. But the kindness
you manifested in my interests exceeded my expectations
; and thanks, however abundant, are inadequate
to convey the expression of my gratitude.

I felt for once proud of being an old soldier. (It
proves, sir, that there is a kind of freemasonry in
these matters.) When men have met in other climes,
and meet again in their own, how gladly do they
recognise each other ! It has been our lot, sir, to
have met in other climes ; and if our little barque had
foundered on that Sunday night, we should at least
have perished on classic land, or classic waters  in
that land where that great celebrity Lord Byron
flourished, and near Santa Maura, where Sappho loved
and sung. Sir, be pleased to pardon this digression.
My business now is to submit this enclosed petition
for your perusal.

You will find, sir, that I have adhered to the text
of your copy, with the addition of supporting the
prayer of the petition. Less could not be said, sir, if
you wish me to succeed, of which I have abundant
proof. You cannot stultify yourself, as there is no
allusion to character or respectability, merely wishing
an old soldier of your acquaintance employment. 
With thanks for past kindness, and leave to avail myself
of your future interest, I am, sir, your humble
obliged servant, Peter Swanson."

Um, haw ! " exclaimed the Colonel, throwing down

this letter. I have got the wrong thing ; I want the
epistle wherein he acknowledges the receipt of some
money. Ah ! here it is."

Sir,  It is my duty  and a pleasing one too  to
inform you that your P. 0. order (eight pounds nine
shillings) came duly to hand, for which please accept
my thanks. But I most respectfully beg to convince
you that you are not dealing fairly by me when you
say that I will not work for you. There is not a
gentleman in England I would rather serve than yourself.
I have had the honour of knowing you much
over a quarter of a century  for that time it is since
you joined Major Scamper's company (a fine young
gentleman). But, sir, as regards this order of yours,
it is questionable whether you would have got served
better in a shop where there are a great number of
men. I affirm that the fit and cut are quite right.
No one should venture an opinion on unfinished work ;
and (without any boasting) I know my business.

Sir, Gordon Higgins  no mean authority on tailoring
 said I was the best tailor in Europe ; therefore I
beg to be allowed to finish the work, and I know it
will be to our mutual credit. It is preposterous to
take it from me in its present state.

Indeed, sir, flattering and fulsome adulation I
despise ; but I conscientiously say this much, that it
joys me and does my heart good when I see your
time-honoured ' face. It reminds me of Santa Maura
and Corfu  when you and I embarked on a Sunday

night from Santa Maura  when I was the only man
under your command, except Payne, a madman, who
had cut his throat.

If I could have seen you, sir, I could have removed
the doubt your note seems to imply ; and, in
self-justification, I do not hesitate to say, that in fitting
the human frame, and that with grace, taste, and elegance,
I am second to none, and should have been
happy to wait upon you, were it only to replace a
button. In conclusion, I will merely say that when
you commanded men, you did more, sir, you commanded
the respect of men. And what a solace in
your retirement !  what a glorious halo !  a sunshine
about the region of the heart  must this produce to
you, for which no earthly consideration can ever be an
equivalent.  I await your orders, sir, and have the
honour to be, your obedient humble servant,

"Peter Swanson."

Colonel Leppell put this letter down with much less
hilarity than he had evinced in opening it. Peter
Swanson's high-flown epistles had for years afforded
much amusement both to him and to his family. At
this juncture they had actually become valuable ; they
seemed to serve almost as a certificate of honour, and a
strong proof that he was held in esteem by his fellowmen.


How tenaciously did he now cling to the expressions
of respect with which these letters of his tailor were
replete ; with what avidity did he scan the characters

which assured him that he was regarded with reverence
by those whom he had formerly commanded. These
epistles were of tenfold importance in his eyes now.

It must be conceded that in his satisfaction there
was little of self-glorification, or passing conceit even.
The consciousness that he failed in integrity was now
impressing itself upon his mind with terrible distinctness
 that he was in great peril of his evil doings
being brought to light. Still it was a comfort in its
way to review the lines which assured him that he
had stood honourably in the estimation of all with
whom he had to do, and that in consequence it would
be difficult for the world in general to believe that he
had ever deviated from the right path.

But for all that, it would never do to be found out.
There was Duke's defection from the ways of honesty,
which might, or might not, crop up at some unexpected
time. The Colonel could never forgive the
folly of which both he and his late wife were guilty
in confiding that secret to Lillian Glascott. The remembrance
of that lady suddenly brought with it a
doubt into the Colonel's mind. It resolved itself into
a very homely question : " Is she true metal after all ?
Wliy is Miss Clavering so reserved when she speaks
of her ? Why does my brother shrug his shoulders
and laugh when her name happens to be mentioned ?
Duke and his wife, too, they actually detest her  at
least Duke does. What can it all mean ? I'll be
hanged if I don't make some of them speak out."

The Colonel had no time to arrange any course of
VOL. III.

action by which he could satisfactorily carry out this
intention, for Clara came into the room to inquire
particulars concerning the expedition to Hieover 
what horses were to go, what groom, and so forth.

Miss Clavering had a short interview with Colonel
Leppell before they departed on the following day.
The acquiescence of that officer in her suggestions was
brief and to the point : night had evidently brought
reflection, if it had not brought counsel.

"Say what you like  do what you like  undertake
what you like," was now the burden of his theme.
"Do get me out of this scrape, like an angel and A 1.
You smile, but really, Willina, I am taking this dreadfully
to heart,  more than you think, haw ! I shall
never speak at a religious assembly again. I see,
haw ! it would not be fair to the audience  mote and
beam idea, you know, and that don't do to suggest
itself to a public meeting."

As this promise of abstention was really a convincing
proof of the Colonel's penitence, Willina repressed
the smile which hovered on her lips, as she
listened to the outpourings of his spirit. She reiterated
her intention of doing her best ; then, reminding her
host that the horses were waiting, she and Clara proceeded
to mount, and in a few minutes' time they were
going at a good round pace in the direction of Hieover
Grange.

Colonel Leppell watched them till they were out of
sight, and then went down to his den at the stables.

That charming retreat was in terrible disorder, as

no human being had been allowed to enter it for
months, for the purpose either of scrubbing or dusting
; but Ralph, in order to work off the anxiety of
his mind, now resolved to have a thorough " turn out,"
and, moreover, to superintend that "turn out" in
person.

The consequence was that a stable-lad was driven
into a state of idiocy at the end of an hour; the
kitchen-girl gave warning on the spot ; and a cat and
a litter of kittens that had made themselves vastly
comfortable for a fortnight in one of the Colonel's
greatcoats, were liberally dispersed all over the premises,
where they were eventually " finished " by the
terrier dogs which hung about. This " turn out " was,
at any rate, complete.

The occupation and excitement drove all remembrance
of Miss Clavering and her mission entirely out
of Colonel Leppell's mind, and with the facility of his
sanguine temperament he determined to enjoy himself,
and so ordered the dogcart for the purpose of driving
into Yarnee. The occupation of clearing out the den
was beginning to wax troublesome also ; so his daughter
Agnes was ordered to finish the remainder of the
work, to replace everything in its original position,
and to have all ship-shape by the time when he should
return.

Miss Agnes listened demurely, saw the dogcart
drive off, and now that she had got her hand in, determined,
as the good people phrase it, to improve
the opportunity.

Turning out was all very well, but by all means let
scrubbing have a share in the business, Agnes said.
So, after mollifying the kitchen-maid, pails of hot water
were soon on the scene, with the other necessary aids
to purification. Stimulated by the promise of a new
hat, Susan Dawes scrubbed with a will. The boards
of the den steamed, and were redolent of the perfume
of " Bristol yellow " ; and-the stable-lad grinned with
delight as he thrashed the carpet with a bean-stick,
and averred that the master kept that there den more
filthy than any pig on the premises. This was Jim's
manner of paying off' the mauvais qiiart - cohere
he had so lately gone through under the Colonel's
regime.

Thus Colonel Leppell's daughter and his serving-maid
thoroughly enjoyed their liberty. They worked
with a will, pleasantly hectoring Jim, and carrying
out in its full extension the privileges which women
of all classes so pertinaciously exact under the shadow
of house-clean?. The kitchen dinner was retarded
half an hour. The dining-room party feasted on
scraps, collected in spasms. Nobody ventured a word
of remonstrance ; the cleaning was in full swing, and
the locality was the governor's den.

The united force of fact and amazement at once
compelled the members of the family to succumb, and
that with the utmost submission in general, and with
utter speechlessness as regarded Prothero in particular.

The equestrians arrived safely at Hieover, and
were most cordially welcomed by the owner of that

demesne. Whatever may have been the Viscount's
omissions in the matter of hospitality towards his
family, he is certainly kind to Clara; and Willina
Clavering he regards, to use his own phraseology, as a
jewel of a woman. Indeed in his heart of hearts he
looks upon her as an ill-used woman, and this opinion
does not tend to further his good-will towards either
Mr or Mrs Glascott. The former was his whilom
enemy. True ; but that enmity is past and gone, or is
supposed so to be : still, little intercourse has subsisted
between Brydone and Hieover. The Viscount is much
inclined to blame Mrs Glascott for this state of things,
and to attribute to her influence the strained nature
of their relations. At any rate, he cannot for the life
of him understand the prolonged opposition which is
still made to Willina's marriage with Mr La Touche ;
and has once gone so far as to confide to his nephew
Duke a wish that he could get this pair to Hieover,
and marry them off on the spot. Parents and guardians
might  well, go hang ! Thus predisposed in her
favour, it was but natural that Lord Hieover should
receive Willina with special honour, and thank her
warmly for the pleasure of her visit.

True to her depredatory instincts, Clara Leppell, after
luncheon, sped her way to the aviaries, where, supported
by a confederate in the shape of an under-gardener, she
marked down such birds as she intended to transport
to Hunter's Lodge. Uncle Alick rarely objected to
these proceedings, seeing that the prey was well looked
after, and remembering also that Clara had much

responsibility and few amusements in her home. It
was in matters such as these that the Viscount
evinced that he was neither avaricious nor selfish, 
he was merely rather rigid in his determination that
his own good money should never be thrown after
bad; and thus, like many persons similarly situated,
he came in at the world's hand for a fair share of
misrepresentation and some abuse.

As soon as they were left alone, Miss Clavering
announced what the principal object of her visit
really was.

She at once dashed into the history of the substitution
of the diamonds, and purposely allowed her
hearer scant time for expostulation or even inquiry.
After softening Colonel Leppell's conduct in every
possible way, she concluded by earnestly entreating
the Viscount to assist his brother, and, above all, to
remember how much Mary Clavering's peace and
happiness depended on the result.

At first Alick was rather inclined to stand out : he
thought that the matter should be trusted to the
generosity of Mr Clavering, and he said as much.

Here again was the weak spot in the programme.
Willina could no more say to the Viscount than she
could say to Colonel Leppell that she suspected a too
close intimacy betwixt her brother and Mrs Glascott.
Even if she held proof of her suspicions, she was not
sure that it would advance her undertaking to hint
thus much, so she said 

It would be hardly seemly, would it, to put

Colonel Leppell in the power of his son-in-law ? I
know that Frank has been very proud of his wife's
possessing the finest diamonds in Fenshire. I was
at Tring when he noticed that one of the stones looked
blurred  here it is." So saying, Miss Clavering produced
the case with the jewels, and opened it in front
of the Viscount.

After looking at them a moment, Lord Hieover
put his finger on the stone which had attracted the
criticism of Mr Clavering. " That looks," said he,
quite different from the rest of the set, and the others
seem to be a little dull also. I suppose you are sure
that the whole partake is paste ? " Lord Hieover made
this, inquiry as the forlorn-hope of the business : he
was beginning to feel convinced that his role was to
be that of paymaster to a serious amount.

Willina immediately produced Mr Dupont's agreement,
and the receipts for the money paid at the time.
There was no evading this evidence ; and now the
Viscount seemed curious to know the exact reason
for Miss Clavering's great interest in the matter. " It
was very good of her to take so much trouble on the
account of his niece ; but Mr Clavering was her own
brother,  was it possible that both his sister and his
wife should be afraid to confide in him ? "

Miss Clavering explained that Mary was totally
ignorant of the whole matter. " I got her to allow
me to bring the jewels to London, in order that this
suspicious-looking stone might be tested. It was my
only chance of getting them into my possession," she

continued. " After having the set tested by two experts,
and hearing the stones pronounced to be wonderfully
good paste imitation of diamonds, I went to
Colonel Leppell, and he told me the whole truth."

Then Francis Clavering knows nothing of this ? "

Nothing : he has his suspicions concerning the
one stone, but he did not examine the whole parure
minutely. He is, however, to ask Mrs Glascott to
bring her set of diamonds with her when she pays
her visit to Tring next month, in order that he may
compare her parte with that of my sister-in-law ;
so you see, if Frank is made aware of your brother's
conduct, Mrs Glascott must necessarily share that
knowledge. This, I think, had better be avoided ; I
have many cogent reasons for saying so."

This last piece of information had evidently great
weight with the Viscount, who, at the same time, was
touched by the dumb pleading of the golden-brown
eyes of the suppliant. Alick might not be a lady's
man, but he loved innocent, unselfish truth. It is so
rare to find woman sincerely loyal to woman ; it was
delightful to find that Willina felt for the position of
his niece. *

What do you propose should be done then ? "
asked he.

That real diamonds should be placed in this casein
lieu of the paste set, and that you go at once to
Paris and arrange with Mr Dupont : you would do
well to invite Clara to accompany you, as a treat for
her, and as a companion for yourself."

The Viscount raised his eyebrows and tried to look
aghast with astonishment : an amused smile played
round the corners of his mouth, nevertheless.

Willina saw her advantage, and continued  " On
your return from Paris you will kindly hand the case
to me, and I will go to Tring at once and return the
diamonds to Mary, point out to her that the diamond
in the centre of the bracelet clasp has a flaw  you
had better leave that stone as it is for appearance
sake  and that the whole parure required a little
cleaning, warn her against damp, &c."

Done," said Alick, raising Willina's hand gallantly
to his lips, " on one condition."

Wliat is that ? "

That you accompany me and Clara to Paris as
soon as you like."

Willina joyfully accepted the invitation. " You
cannot. Lord Hieover," she said, " have dear Mary's
thanks ; but I feel sure that the recording angel has
placed this noble deed to the right side of your
account: this is the true pure charity which will
cover a multitude of sins."

I will return to Hunter's Lodge with you," replied
the Viscount, " stay the night there, and start tomorrow.
Come now, and let us find Clara."

CHAPTER X.

THE Sorrow OF THE NIGHT.

It would be difficult to distinguish whether pleasure
or surprise was the predominant feeling in Colonel
Leppell's mind when he found his brother at his
threshold, and heard him intimate his intention of
staying at Hunter's Lodge on his way to Paris.

Clara flew to Lady Asher's room to communicate
the news ; and the two brothers, after the first greetings
were over, retired to the " den," wherein a long
and amicable conference took place.

It must have been both complete and satisfactory
on all sides ; for when they issued forth, with linked
arms and smiling faces, it was evident that the work
of the " peacemaker " had sowed good seeds in their
hearts, and that the fruits of generosity and forgiveness
were now springing into life.

Ralph, though pleased, was remarkably quiet, and
that was always a sign that his heart was touched.
Moreover, in his joy and relief, he had the grace to
remember the kind offices of Willina Clavering in

this matter. " That girl has been the good angel of
our family' he remarked to the Viscount.

Indeed she has," returned the other ; " and it is
an awful shame that those two old fools should have
kept her so long waiting to fulfil her engagement, all
for their whims."

"Well, it won't be long now. Young La Touche
is doing well, and the moment the time is expired the
wedding will take place ; but I don't think either
Glascott or his wife can stand the La Touches."

Oh, as to that," returned Lord Hieover, " I have
always been of opinion that Mrs Lillian could have
brought matters round in that quarter, if she had
chosen to use her influence. I heard a lot about her
when I was last down at Dunlashoe for the shooting ;
but I know you and the Frank Claverings think her
perfection, so I will say no more beyond this : Duke
tells me that Miss Clavering refused that eldest La
Touche,  a conceited snob,  hence the La Touche
enmity."

But Lillian had nothing to do with that. Come,
although she has not been over-grateful to me of late,
I must take her part there."

Perhaps," returned the Viscount, " you don't know
the story goes that Lillian had marked down the La
Touche prize for herself."

Don't believe it  don't believe a word of it ! " answered
Ralph. " Percival La Touche is a snob, but
he would never have presumed to approach either of
these ladies. They are quite out of his line, with all

his money, and he knows it. Duke has heard some
gossip, and has got mixed in retailing it."

Lord Hieover was silenced but not convinced. He
now asked after Lady Asher, and said he would like
to see her.

Going on splendidly  first-rate," replied Colonel
Leppell, energetically. " Told you she would see us
out  is on the way to do so. Keep 'em in bed ; no
anxiety. Bread-pills, with a dusting of chemists'
stuff over them, and brandy-ands water draughts, will
keep an old woman in this sublunary sphere as long
as she is wanted. Fine recipe ; I recommended it
from the first, sir."

Meanwhile the household at large had been enlightened
as to the cause of his lordship's visit. The
event itself was so sudden and unexpected, that it
employed the speculative powers of the inmates of
Hunter's Lodge for an indefinite space of time ; and a
small boy and a dog were told off to keep watch on
the Viscount's movements, in case he should leave
surreptitiously and ride away. Old Lady Asher was
shaken up to be informed that his lordship would like
to visit her.

The effect was electrical. Lady Asher bounded in
her bed, and rushed into a spirit of prophecy at the
same time, as she was told that the Viscount was
going to defray all the expenses of the trip to Paris,
and that the party would be quite three weeks in that
capital.

The heavens will fall, Prothero ! " the old lady

declared solemnly, glaring upwards to the tester of
the bed as she spoke ; " or Alexander Leppell will be
going to be married, or "

Well, he can't marry his niece, and Miss Clavering
belongs to somebody else ; it's only a Leppell
whim, my lady. The Viscount likes Miss Clara, and
Miss Clavering is good at the language, and so he
thinks he won't be overcharged at the hotels. As to
the heavens falling, they have seen more than this for
many a day, if they have attended to all the fatigues
of this family."

Don't be hard, Prothero. They are all improving
; and Ralph is much more considerate than he
used to be. We ought all of us to soften as we get
older. Now, make me presentable, for the Viscount is
coming to see me, I hear, and I want to look pleased
and happy."

Prothero did as she was requested, then caught a
young child and bribed it to stay with grandmamma
still she should return. She must help Clara to prepare
for the trip.

Although delighted that the girl should have this
enjoyment, Prothero, with all the tyranny of an old
and trusted domestic, was as cross as possible, because
longer notice had not been given wherein to make
these preparations. She censured the Viscount behind
his back, and tormented Clara to such an extent
that the girl had no more say in what she should
take and what she should leave than had the dog in
the kennel.

Your uncle must buy you a new bonnet and a silk
dress in Paris, mind that, Miss Clara, my dear," counselled
Prothero. " You have been so hurried that you
have an excellent excuse for getting what you want.
You haven't a wrapping plaid ; then take the one belonging
to Miss Agnes. It is quite new  your pa gave
it her last week."

But Agnes," objected Clara, " might not like."

Never you mind ; you take it and wear it. I'll get
another out of your pa. He knows you must be commonly
decent to go to Paris with a nobleman.
child ! why are you trying to lift that box ? It's
enough to break your back; I'll do that. You had
better run down now and look after Lady Asher."

Best to do as well as we can," said Mrs Prothero
to herself, as Clara departed. " I hope the child will
get a few presents. She is in luck; for Alick may
freeze up again for the next hundred years. Lor' !
it's like a tale in the ' Arabian Nights.' "

The party set off the next day in high spirits, and
after performing a most comfortable journey, they
found themselves in that charming hotel which bears
the name of Hotel de Nice, and which stands opposite
to the Bourse. The fame of the cuisine of that
establishment has ever attracted visitors within its
gates, and as it also supplied thorough and courteous
attendance, no wonder that Uncle Alick began to appreciate
the French metropolis, and gave expression to
the wish that he had known of this hotel years ago.
But then, you see," continued he to the ladies in

explanation, " I never could get my tongue round the
corner of any language but my own, and now I am
too old to try."

It had been agreed that nothing concerning the real
purport of the journey should be revealed to Clara,
consequently she was set down to write letters for the
whole party one morning, whilst Miss Clavering and
Lord Hieover paid their visit to Mr Dupont.

The latter was ait fait at the whole matter in a very
short time ; avowed that he was accustomed to make
all kinds of delicate arrangements to suit purchasers
; was surprised at nothing, and knew nothing, and
remembered nothing,  no father confessor could be
more reticent. Now to business.

The paste set, he averred, had become dim, and had
lost its colour sooner than was usual in such very
good artificial stones as these were. The dim aspect
must be attributed to want of cleaning, and perhaps to
damp. The centre stone in the bracelet certainly proclaimed
its unsoundness in the most glaring manner.
This, Mr Dupont suggested, he would replace by a
real diamond of bad colour, which he happened to
possess. The paste set should be most accurately
copied in real diamonds, and returned with these
when the order should be completed.

And when will that be ? " asked Willina, anxiously.

In about three weeks," was the answer ; " a day or
two over that time, perhaps, but not longer."

The business of price and paying was also entered
into, and was in its turn satisfactorily arranged. The

Viscount paid half the sum charged down without
demur, and agreed to pay the other half when the
jewels should be handed to him. Mr Dupont was
profuse in his acknowledgments of Lord Hieover's
liberality, and complimented him thereon. But he
did not go so far as to compliment him upon his
French ; the most audacious Gaul that ever breathed
would have hesitated to do that.

Just said a few words," remarked the Viscount to
Willina, "to let him see that I knew what I was
about." The speaker was quite blind to the fact that,
as far as Mr Dupont was concerned, he might have
been speaking Gaelic.

Well, that's done," the Viscount continued in good
British phrase. " We'll go home and have some
luncheon, and drive to Versailles after that."

Clara wrote home such wonderful accounts of their
proceedings that the popular opinion at Hunter's Lodge
was that Uncle Alick had gone mad. " They stop at
nothing," shouted the Colonel to Lady Asher, who was
beginning to be very deaf. " They are out morning,
noon, and night. They walk on the Boulevards, and
are every day at the Pally Royal. Alick has come
across some old friends, and they are all as jolly as
sandboys. It's a fact, ma'am."

Prothero hoped that the Viscount was not going to
die. Some men were allowed, by the blessing of
Providence, to go " fey " before they drop off, that
matron averred.

However, by the blessing of Providence, Lord Hie-over

lived, and returned from his trip quite rejuvenated
in mind and body. His niece, Mary Clavering, was
passing through London on her way back from her
visit to Dunlashoe, and Willina thought she would
take the advantage of Marmaduke's escort and return
at once to Ireland.

One evening she put the case of diamonds into
Mary's hands. " That stone is defective," she said ;
but the jeweller says it can be replaced by a perfect
one at any time. Your set is clean now, and you
must be careful to keep it free from damp. Better
than all  go out oftener than you do, and wear your
diamonds."

Mary smiled, and informed her sister that she had
consented to go to a ball in the neighbourhood, which
would take place immediately upon the return of the
Glascotts from town.

Francis is anxious," she said, " that we should both
wear our diamonds ; but I insist upon wearing black
velvet also, for I won't put off mourning for my
children. Mr Glascott and Frank are both going to
accompany us, which I am glad of, for it is rarely
that my husband has time to enter into evening amusements."


As Mrs Clavering was speaking that individual came
in, and his wife showed him her jewels. " I got Willina
to have them cleaned for me," said she in perfect
innocence, " and both she and Uncle Alick had them
tested by an expert also. The man said they were
perfectly pure diamonds ; but he agreed with you that

VOL. III. p

the stone in the centre of this bracelet is an inferior
one, although a pure gem. It seems it can be very
easily replaced, but, of course, Willina did not think
of doing this without consulting us. Wliat do you
think, Frank ? Would you like me to get another
stone, or let this one remain as it is ? "

Mr Clavering narrowly inspected the parure; but he
was so delighted at the fact of his own opinion concerning
the centre stone being confirmed by the verdict
of the jeweller, that he quite overlooked the wonderful
difference in the brilliancy of the set as a whole.
That stone is certainly very inferior," he remarked.
Why, the shade of its colour has changed. When I
saw it last it had a dull pink tinge, now it is a dull
yellow. You can't have it altered now, as we must
return home tomorrow, and I want you, as I said before,
to wear the set at the Tring county ball."

Although Lord Hieover reaped no other reward than
that of virtue in this transaction, he still inwardly
chuckled at the idea of his having been the means of
deluding so clever a personage and so great an authority
on all things as was Mr Clavering. That gentleman
was becoming every year more arbitrary in his
opinions, and the way in which he occasionally laid
down the law somewhat "riled" Uncle Alick, who
never pretended, nor ever had pretended, to be a judge
of any mortal thing, with the exception of a horse ora
dog.

He, therefore, derived much amusement as he
watched Francis inspect the parure and deliver his

dictum concerning that one particular stone. Willina
had retired from the room, to avoid laughing outright.

There was little time left for these relatives to confer.
Marmaduke was anxious to set out for home,
and the great motive for Miss Clavering's return to
Tring being removed, she agreed to go back with him
on the following day.

Lord Hieover would take his niece back to her
father's house, where she would be well received by
Prothero, for good lace, as well as jewellery, suitable
to the wear of a young girl, had been presented to her,
in addition to that bonnet and silk dress concerning
which the maid had been so peremptory. Uncle
Alick accordingly rose many degrees in the mental
thermometer at Hunter's Lodge.

Willina found that it had been decided to let young
Frank Clavering go to Brydone with the Glascotts,
there to remain for some time. She fervently hoped
that it would be long before any visiting between these
two houses would take place.

Guests of both sexes were expected at Tring, and
Mr Clavering, in common politeness, could not absents
himself from home.

As Lord Hieover wished Miss Clavering good-bye,
he informed her that he had smashed the paste set to
atoms ; " and mind," continued he, " you shall have the
finest set of diamonds I can get for your wedding present
from me. No thanks ; we are all indebted to you
for saving the family from the shame of a gross breach
of honour, to put it mildly. Again, good-bye, and

when you feel benevolently inclined towards the
underlies, send me news of Peggy."

Miss Clavering arrived at Dunlashoe just in time.
She found a matron of the neighbourhood installed in
the house, and Peggy invisible. A night of agony, and
a long day alternating betwixt hope and fear, came to
a sad conclusion. Marmaduke's wife was barely alive
and quite insensible, and his fine twin sons had been
born dead. This was indeed a shock to the little
household ; but had it been otherwise, they might
perhaps never have known the wealth of kindness
with which they were regarded for miles around that
lonely district. Peasants walked long distances to hear
of Peggy's welfare ; Marmaduke was accosted with
homely respectful sympathy by persons whom he
had never seen.

The law of kindness had worked its way here.
English as ye are," said one, " the word of insult and
contempt has never dropped from yer lips." " Ye are
so kind and polite that we could not believe you to
be English," said another. In the eyes of those who
know, it has been generally the want of even the
common courtesies of life which has so embittered
the Irish race against their English landlords.

The time passed by, and no event of importance
marked its flight among the denizens of the land of
whom this record treats. Mary Clavering's son grew
apace, bold, fitful, and only constant in his declaration
that he loved Mrs Glascott above all other persons in
the world. A little daughter had been born to the

Claverings, and in the caresses of this infant Mary
lost much of the sorrow which the hardness of her
eldest-born naturally occasioned her. Prothero, for
comfort, declared that young Frank Clavering must
have been changed at nurse.

Martha La Touche had fitted well into her position,
and, when the right time arrived, she informed her
husband that Mr Glascott had redeemed his promise
concerning the marriage of Miss Clavering with his
son Stephen. She begged her husband to be forgiving
and generous, and entreated him to acknowledge
the epistle which the latter had lately written to his
father entreating him to receive him at Wheatley and
discuss the subject. Stephen had been most anxious
on this point, and had privately bespoken the influence
of Mrs La Touche in his behalf.

All was, however, to no purpose. Prompted by
Percival, the old man held out vigorously, and even
declined to see his son ; and if Marcia was not exactly
inimical to her nephew, she certainly made no effort
to forward a reconciliation.

Aunt Kemble's will was at the bottom of all this.
It had never been forgiven to Stephen that this document
existed.

Having done everything in his power, Stephen felt
that nothing more was incumbent on him : he, therefore,
wrote to Mrs La Touche thanking her for her
kindness, and informed her that, all being well, his
marriage would take place in about three weeks' time
from that date.

Mr Glascott's town house was now vacant, and the
wedding would take place from thence. The party
from Dunlashoe, the Claverings, and the Leppells
would be present. It was hard, indeed, Stephen wrote,
that none of his family would join them. Miss Clavering
had written to invite Fanny La Touche to be one
of her bridesmaids. This had been peremptorily refused.
Lord Hieover had offered him the use of his
house, and the honeymoon would be spent at Hieover
Grange.

This much had been settled, and Willina and the
Dukes came to London some little time before the
Glascotts were due at their own habitation. Armature
had taken a furnished house for a couple of
months ; by this means he and his wife would enjoy
themselves after their own fashion, and, what was also
desirable, Willina would be with them until the time
should arrive when she would go to her guardian's
house. Marmaduke vowed that, barring attendance at
the wedding-breakfast  and that only out of respect
to Willina  he would accept no hospitality from Mrs
Glascott. Even when Mrs Leppell was almost at
death's door, Lillian had never troubled to write a line
inquiring about her state.

Thus, as the world goes, plans are arranged, jealousies
and enmities pursue their course, and after long waiting
and some sorrowing, happiness seems to come when weare
sleeping. Stephen and Willina now threw themselves
into the present without much or any care for
the future, and they went about with their friends,

completed their purchases, and literally made hay
when the sun was shining:. All was absorbed in the
happy present. The warning, embodied in an elegant
verse of Corneille, in their season of delight was
quite obliterated : they had read the quaint old rhyme
in the past ; but it was forgotten now, and it was
natural that such should be the case.

Toute cette felicity,

Sujets k Instability,
En moins que rien tombe a terre ;
Et, comme elle a Eclat du verre,

Elle en a la fragility."

Stephen came to Marmaduke's house late one night.
I had forgotten to tell you, dear," he said to Willina,
that I am due to-night at one of these hybrid entertainments,
between a ball and an evening-party, which
my friends, the Lascelles, give in honour of a sister-in-law
who has come up to town to be married next
week from their house. I shall have no more than
time to go home and dress."

Lascelles  I have heard you mention that name,"
said Miss Clavering. " Do I know any of them ? "

Not personally, I think ; but they know all about
you. Mr Lascelles is an awfully good fellow, and did
all he could at one time to bring my father to reason.
He also spoke to Percival, and was treated with great
insolence by him on my account. I wanted to tell
you that Mrs Lascelles did not know that you had
come up to town, or she would have called and sent
you and the Dukes an invitation."

Where do the Lascelles live ? "

"In Bournemouth Gardens, rather near Hinton
Square, by the way. You are fortunate in escaping
this dance, for the house is small, and there will be a
dreadful squeeze, I rather think."

Come and tell me all about it tomorrow morning,"
said Willina. " And, mind, I give you permission to
flirt as much as possible with the lady who is going to
be married next week."

You are quite safe," laughed Stephen, as he bade
her good night. Then he left, handsome and stalwart.
Willina thought she had never realised how noble his
appearance was till now. We do not admit as often
as we should how truly happiness beautifies all living
things : it is the golden halo of life.

Then she and the Dukes fell to talking, and somehow
the burden of their conversation bore very much
on past events and upon the strange vicissitudes of
everyday existence. They spoke of Colin M'Taggart,
their neighbour 'par excellence, of whom they really saw
very little  his quiet, workaday life, his good example,
and, above all things, his abstention from interfering
in things which were beyond his province  with much
praise. This was the secret of Colin's success in
Ireland. He was a good teacher, and, like a sensible
man, he never meddled with politics, or with other
people's affairs.

Willina remarked that Stephen La Touche held the
opinion that Colin had a sneaking kindness for his
sister Fanny.

How would Aunt Marcia like that ? " said Armature.


I don't think she would be consulted on the
matter," said Miss Clavering ; " besides, after the
marriage her brother has made, she could not say
very much about inequality of station."

But Mr M'Taggart is the girl's first cousin, sure,"
exclaimed Peggy, rearing up on the couch on which
she had been reclining. " The only objection that I
can see would be the near relationship."

True ; but it has not come to that yet. Now,
don't you think we had better be off to our beds ? I
want you to come for a morning's shopping early tomorrow,
for I don't believe Stephen will be here till
after luncheon. The party he has gone to, he expected,
would not break up till the small hours," volunteered
Miss Clavering.

At the time that this trio separated a cry of fire
had been raised in the house at Bournemouth Gardens,
and whilst they afterwards slept in security and peace,
two human beings were writhing in agony, one of
whom had in mercy been released by death from
bitter suffering. These were, sad to tell. Miss Dare,
the young lady who was about to be married, and
Stephen La Touche.

It would seem next to impossible to those who have
never witnessed the progress of a fire, to comprehend
dio fatally and how quickly a human being once
subjected to its influence can shrivel up and be
burnt out of all recognition, even to the utter extinction

of life. In cases wherein the burning would not
be of itself sufficient to cause death, the shock to
the whole system is so overwhelming, and the utter
prostration which follows so intense, that in nine
cases out of ten it is impossible that a reaction can
ensue. Thus it is that patients who have been overtaken
by this terrible calamity more often die of the
after-effects than they do from positive injury from
the burns themselves.

The house of Mr Lascelles was, as it has been said,
small, and not arranged to give space to a great number
of persons at one time. The event which had induced
Mrs Lascelles to give a dance had also led her on to
invite more guests than her rooms could conveniently
hold. In consequence, what is called a sit-down supper
was utterly impossible, and after trying all kinds of
devices, it was settled that a supper should be laid ina
small room at the farther extremity of the house, to
which the guests could be escorted at the proper time
the ladies to be waited on by the gentlemen, and
these last to sup together after the ladies had withdrawn.


The two musicians who were to preside at the piano
were to take their refreshment behind a screen on the
upper landing.

As the guests arrived, every cloak and coat and wrap
was conveyed away, even the mats in the hall were
withdrawn  all being done to secure space. The doors
of the ground-floor dining-room and drawing-room 
which had been thrown into one for the accommodation

of the dancers  had been taken off their hinges,
and muslin curtains, festooned with flowers and ribbon,
supplied their place. Everything, in fact, was cleared
away that might cause a stumble or take up one inch
of the necessary space.

Up to twelve o'clock all had gone well : muslin,
tarletane, silk, satin, with the necessary accompaniments,
had swathed the masculine form in the mazes
of the waltz, so that of the sterner sex little more than
the heads were visible. The gradients of the stairs
were crowded with panting and exhausted terpsichore
and the atmosphere left Fiji far in the background.
But this was real pleasure, and the company
seemed to revel in it to the greatest extent.

The ladies had been conveyed in batches to supper,
and as the last of the fair sex passed through the door,
their partners seated themselves comfortably at table,
and prepared to indemnify themselves for the extra
duty they had undergone by putting the services of
the hired waiters to the utmost requisition, and by
thoroughly enjoying the viands that were set before
them. They had certainly earned their supper, and
with the exception, perhaps, of a few very young menthe
ladies would have the coast to themselves for the
best part of an hour.

This was the avowed sentiment of old Mr Fisk, a
neighbour, who hated balls, and who was only then
present because the noise and the music would keep
him from sleep in his own house. He therefore punished
his friend's supper severely, and seemed disappointed

that he could not devour everything that
was on the table.

The ladies, who had been sitting in and standing
about the dancing-room, appeared to feel anxious for
something to do, and in the absence of the musicians,
Mrs Lascelles proposed that a ladies' quadrille should
be improvised  being sure, she said, that she might
call upon some of her young friends to supply the
music.

Miss Dare immediately volunteered to play the air
of any dance that might be called. She had been
accustomed, she said, to act as musician at the little
impromptu " hops " which were occasionally given
at her own home, and so she was quite independent
of notes.

A set of quadrilles was soon formed, and the very
pretty sight of a number of nicely dressed girls dancing
together was thoroughly appreciated by the matrons
and others who looked on.

Suddenly a piercing scream from a young lady who
was standing close to the piano, followed by an entire
cessation of the music, and a rush to the centre of
the room, caused every one to rise to their feet. Those
at the farther end were horrified to perceive that Miss
Dare was on fire, and that in her alarm she had come
against those who were near her, and that in consequence
the dresses of some other of the guests had
become ignited by the contact.

The more collected of the bystanders hastened towards
the affrighted girls, with entreaties that they

should not rush away, but lie clown and roll on the
floor, they in the meantime searching for something
wherewith to envelop them.

Nothing available for the purpose was within reach,
all, as it has been seen, was removed that would take
up space : even the coquettes for the backs of the
chairs had been stowed away.

Some ineffectual attempts were made to tear up the
carpet, but these efforts were fruitless : a linen cover
stretched for dancing, and tightly nailed over it, rendered
the task, wherein every moment was precious,
entirely futile.

A mother extinguished the flame that had caught
the light dress of her daughter, by wrapping the girl
tightly in the folds of her velvet gown ; another ran
frantically to the room at the far end of the house,
where the gentlemen were at supper, and besought
help.

It was an awful spectacle," said one of them a
few days afterwards, as he described the scene to his
family. " I could not have believed it possible that
a human being could burn away so quickly. Oh,
the terrible, the dreadful sight ! I shall never forget
it as long as memory is left me  never."

Tell us how it happened ? " said the gentleman's
wife. " I have not liked to ask you to give us the
particulars, for you appear to have been so terribly
upset."

We were sitting round the supper-table, the door
being shut, when our attention was attracted by a

curious sound which appeared to proceed from the
street. This was followed by screams, and then hurried
in a lady who, with a face deathly white, begged
us to come and put out the fire. Poor soul ! after she
had with difficulty got out these words, she sank
down to the floor and fainted away.

We all, together with the waiters, ran to the
dancing room, and found one of the musicians tearing
down the muslin curtains which were festooned
at the entrance.

The first object I distinctly descried was Mr La
Touche, who had been a little in advance, down on
his knees, wrapping his coat round a burning mass,
which struggled and screamed in a manner which
was dreadful to hear. Fragments of dress, singed
ornaments, and burnt hair strewed the floor in heaps,
for La, Touche had with both hands torn away Miss
Dare's clothing, whilst others stamped upon these
fragments to prevent the sparks from igniting further.

"I at the moment happened to see a young lady
frantically endeavouring to open the window, and
dashed forward only in time to prevent her doing so.
What would have been the consequence had she succeeded
in her design, God only knows. I seized her
gossamer skirt, which had become ignited, and literally
wrung out the tire by tearing it off in handfuls. It
was the work of a second : a silk petticoat worn beneath
it saved the girl's limbs, and very probably her
life also."

How awful ! " exclaimed the speaker's wife, as

she listened to this narration ; " how thankful we
ought to be that our Amy was not there ! "

That was the burden of my own thanksgiving at
the time," was the reply. " After I had placed the
lady in a safe corner, I turned round and beheld
Stephen La Touche, with blackened face and hands,
trying to get a blanket round the unfortunate sufferer,
who quivered with agony, and lay moaning ina
manner which was piteous to hear. Then the smell
of burning flesh made itself felt ! A terrible scent
is this  worse even than that of the battlefield 
for here it was a woman's flesh and blood which the
flame devoured and hindered,  yes, hindered like the
surface of toast that is burnt."

Did she attempt to help herself ? "

"That was impossible. In a few seconds more,
Miss Dare happily became insensible, and then was
lifted in the blanket and conveyed up-stairs. The
spot whereon she had lain was literally burnt through
both carpet and cover in the outline of the human
form. The smoke and the smoulder arising from it
were alike terribly offensive."

'' And how did it all happen ? " inquired the wife.

Miss Dare was playing for the dancers, when the
sleeve of her gossamer dress caught fire from one of
the piano candles ; the flame ran along the material,
and then to the other parts of the robe. This being
of light substance, and nothing but a number of muslin
skirts beneath, there was not the slightest impediment
to the action of the fire. Had she worn even one

under-skirt of thick material beneath these, her life
micjht have been saved."

What a mistake ! " exclaimed the wife. " I suppose
the whole toilet was nothing more than under-linen
beneath and gossamer above."

That was all ; and every shred was burnt off her
in less time than it takes to tell. The sight in every
way was a fearful one ; and now that fine young man,
Stephen La Touche, has died from the burns which
he received in trying to save her."

I thought you said that the doctor's opinion was
that Mr La Touche would recover."

It was thought so at first, but his strength failed
very suddenly : he was terribly burnt about the chest
and the temples, and the inside of one of his hands
and the arm were burnt to the bone. I don't go to
the house just now, for naturally the inmates are
thoroughly upset : poor Mrs Lascelles has kept her
bed ever since, and I am told the smell pervading the
house is noisome to a degree."

This gentleman was quite correct in what he related
to his wife. After Miss Dare had been conveyed upstairs,
Stephen suddenly fainted, and on examination
it was discovered that he had experienced the most
serious injuries. Two physicians had been summoned,
and they immediately attended to him, ordering that
he should be placed in bed, and a hospital nurse
immediately obtained.

When the guests had departed, the senior physician,
who, in conjunction with a confrere, had been inclose

attendance on Miss Dare, left that room for a
few moments in order to ascertain how the other
sufferer was progressing. In the case of Miss Dare
it was only a matter of time,  an hour or two at most
must necessarily terminate her trials. There was
hope for Mr La Touche ; still his condition was very
grave.

The doctor made his examination. The result of
this was, that though he entertained little apprehension
of immediate danger, he judged it necessary that
the friends of Mr La Touche should be summoned,
not waiting till the day should be more advanced.

A messenger was despatched in a cab to fetch Miss
La Touche from Hinton Square, and to apprise the
elder brother of the catastrophe. Stephen had requested
that his aunt should be sent for, and also
Miss Clavering ; but he had become insensible before
he could furnish the address of the latter. In the
distraction and distress which prevailed, Mr Lascelles
had totally forgotten even the locality wherein Mr
Leppell's house was situated.

Marcia arrived ; and after the first horror and shock
was over, she suggested that the address should be
inquired for at Mr Glascott's town house; it was
being made ready for the reception of the owner, and
probably Miss Clavering had been there. If not successful,
the messenger was to go at once to the
chambers of Mr La Touche, and try to procure it
there. All, however, was to vain purpose.

The patient, after a lapse of a few hours, inquired

VOL. III. Q

anxiously for Willina. Why did she not come ? was
she being kept away from him ? and why ? All
these questions tortured Marcia, and added to her
self-reproach. At length she bethought herself of
Stephen's pocket - book ; and there she found the
address in a note of Willina's written the day before.
Miss Clavering was sent for ; but a day and a night
had almost passed since the accident occurred.

CHAPTEE XL

DOWN WIND, DOWN TIDE.

"Attend cor beat e bella,
Attend a quel supernal see
E fascia el mundo esempio del tuo fete."

Ariosto.

It was all too true, the case proving to be far more
dangerous than was at first supposed. The doctors
knew well, though they had not given expression to
their conviction, that in a very short time all would
be over in this world for Stephen La Touche. This
fine hale man was lying maimed and utterly helpless,
all his comeliness crone, nothing left save his clear
loyal spirit to tell what he once had been. His sense
of hearing was, however, at this crisis acute to painfulness,
and softly as Willina entered, he instinctively
felt her presence before she became recognisable to
his sight.

I knew you would come, dear heart," he said
faintly. " Give me every moment ; the sand of my
life is wellnigh shaken out. Yes, Willina, I am
dying; I am leaving you."

Stephen ! my love, has it come to this ? " she
gasped, holding out both her hands. " If I had only
been there, I might have done something to help you.
I might have ministered to you from the first; and

now I come only to " and here Willina gave vent

to one of those tearless sobs which tell of the heart's
deep agony more pitifully, perhaps, than do loud cries
or floods of tears.

An arm stealing round her waist, and her head at
the same time drawn down caressingly to a woman's
shoulder, made Miss Clavering aware that the healing
waters of sympathy had at length unsealed their
fountains in the soul of Marcia La Touche.

I have been with him ever since the accident,"
she said, in tearful accents ; " and he was so ill yesterday
that I remained up all night, to relieve the nurse.
Poor Stephen !  poor, poor fellow 1 "

The sufferer put out his bandaged arm in the direction
where Marcia stood, feeling for her rather than
seeing her  for the sight of one eye was all but extinguished,
and the vision of its fellow was sorely clouded.
My mother could not have nursed me more devotedly,"
he said. " Ah, Aunt Marcia, I have always
known that it only required opportunity to bring out
your better self. The sick-room has shown you in
your true womanhood. I only wish that you could
have been less severely tried, less "

It is a comfort to be allowed to attend upon you,"
she interrupted. " I feel that I have been a sad let
and hindrance to both of you, and I am thankful for

the opportunity which permits me to stand here and
ask your pardon. Stephen ! Willina ! will you
forgive me ? I acted for the best. Believe me, I
have never been wanting in friendly feeling towards
you."

They both assured her of their perfect trust in what
she said, and Willina volunteered the opinion that
Aunt Marcia could have hardly done otherwise than
sail with the family stream. " You have only carried
out the ideas of both sides of our houses," she said,
generously. " Besides, I cannot blame you for expecting
a higher match for Stephen than I "

Don't say that," continued Marcia. " Experience
has taught me that there are better things in life thana
large income, and all the advantages that it commands.
Ah ! the long weary struggle you both have
had, and all to end like this at last ! "

"Ay," interrupted Stephen, in a low broken tone,
for a dull weariness was gaining upon him,  " the probation
has been long, but it has carried its victory.
When all is over, tell them all, tell them. Aunt Marcia,
that through the mercy of God, Stephen La Touche
passed from life sound in mind and heart. Keep near
me, dear love," he added, turning to Willina ; " let
death, when it comes, find me strong and happy, in
the sanity of loving you. I am spent ; I cannot say
more."

Marcia administered a restorative, at the same time
enjoining silence and rest upon the patient. Then
Willina placed her hand on his noble head. Pale as

marble, with her lips slightly parted, she stood looking
solemnly upwards, as if she awaited the advent of the
death-angel, and had heard from afar the rustle of his
wings. She might have been sculptured there as the
grand protectress of the dying man, determined that
none other than herself should surrender the charge
when the messenger of the King should issue forth.
There was silence for some time, and then Stephen,
rallied by the cordial, spoke once more : his voice was
almost strong now.

"Do you think that Dr Williams would come tome
? " he said ; " I would so like him to be with me at
the last."

At the last ! " was all that poor "VVillina could
utter; but the tone of her voice was heart-breaking
to hear,  the wail of misery sounded in every tone.

Marcia answered the question. " I am sure he will.
It only takes three hours to travel from Yarneshire,
and there are plenty of trains."

I only want him as a friend," the patient said.
Don't offend the other doctors  they are very skilful,
very good  but at the last I should prefer to see a
mad doctor. You understand ? "

Marcia did not reply ; but the faint pressure of
Willina's fingers on his forehead assured Stephen that
she had rightly interpreted the request. She knew
that he wished to secure medical testimony to the
absence of the family taint in his constitution : if it
existed, surely it would come out now. That was
why the patient wished for the attendance of Dr

Williams at the last; and Willina understood this
full well.

Marcia left the room to write and despatch the
telegram. "I will speak to the nurse," she said as
she went out, " and if she hears the bell, she will be
with you in an instant. You will like to be left to
yourselves," she added kindly, turning towards Willina
; " but in ten minutes or so my duty as nurse
will compel me to return." She went out, softly
closing the door behind her, and the unfortunate
lovers were alone.

Draw we a veil over their dumb agony, their rain
of tears. It was well that the senses of each were
almost deadened by their weight of sorrow.

"We have both tried to do right, and keep our
promises to our friends," the poor girl at length said.
Oh why, why has it been worse than useless ? Why
are we punished as if we had been dishonoured and
wrong ? "

He could not answer her. Ah ! this bitter question,
which has wrung the hearts of multitudes of earth's
children, and will wring them till time is no more !
Why are the innocent so often punished, miserably
punished, not for the sins merely, but for the mistakes
and the whims and the selfishness of the guilty and
the erring ? Strange mystery of life, one of its most
inexplicable and most cruel phases ! " The whole
creation groaned and travaileth in pain together until
now," wrote the Apostle of old unto those who were
then alive, awaiting the promises of the glorious redemption.

Generation upon generation have passed
away since then, and we who now live still groan and
travail in anguish; still bear the brunt of the misdoings
of our kind ; still, with all our knowledge and
progress, are groping in the mists of speculation and
unsatisfied doubts. Well for them who can wait, and
endure unto the end. The crown of victory will be
no less a crown when won through the martyrdom of
the spirit's weary waiting  through that strong trust
which believeth all things and loveth all things, from
the pure principle that it is right so to do, and that
without compensation or hope of reward.

The interview was shortened not only by the return
of Marcia, but also from the debilitated state of the
sufferer, whose weakness and restlessness were increasing
to a lamentable degree. Kindness, therefore, as
well as prudence, demanded that Willina should at
once leave the room, and this necessity was the more
imperative, as one of the doctors was expected to call
during the course of the morning, and time was wearing
rapidly on.

You will return soon," gasped Stephen, when Miss
Clavering announced her intention of going downstairs
to see the lady of the house, and thank her for
placing a room at her disposal.

Poor Mrs Lascelles ! she has indeed her own great
trial to bear," she had remarked. " Such a fearful experience
this has been to her ; it is enough to throw a
dark shadow over the remainder of her life."

Those who have had occasion to tend upon sickness

in all its phases, will agree that there is nothing more
painful than to witness the gradual extinction of a life
which has been prematurely brought to its close by
accident or violence. Still more melancholy also when
the struggle of the natural force, at first unsubdued
by the untoward catastrophe, is maintained to the
last in fitful sobbing gasps  every inch of existence
being so persistently contested, that those attending
remain in doubt almost to the end as to whether or no
the King of Terrors may be ultimately baulked of his
prey. Thus it was that the agony was prolonged in
the wrenching of soul and body of Stephen La Touche.

A sound sleep of an hour's duration, immediate upon
the withdrawal of Miss Clavering, had so refreshed
and comforted the patient that the nurses had taken
fresh hope, and almost flattered themselves that a
crisis which would evolve into recovery was nigh. The
doctor calling soon after noticed the improvement, but,
to the surprise of Marcia especially, he did not draw
any permanently favourable augury from the symptoms.
In fact, his injunctions gave rise to the saddest
forebodings in Willina's mind. " If you have any
private affairs to settle," said Dr Mohr, addressing the
patient, " let me advise you to lose no time ; you are
capable of transacting business now, and perhaps for
some hours to come, but I should be going beyond my
province did I promise more. Let us hope, however,
that the night may pass over more easily than the
last. I will see you again before ten o'clock."

The doctor then gave some injunctions for the management

of the invalid, and proceeded to another
apartment of this house of woe, there to minister to
Mrs Lascelles, who was lying prostrate, not only from
the shock she had undergone, but also from the dread
of facing further human misery. She had received a
telegram apprising her that Mr Leadham, to whom
Miss Dare was to have been married, would be at
Bournemouth Gardens late in the afternoon, and the
poor woman, who had already in spirit suffered much
of the agony which would necessarily be the portion
of that bereaved friend, had now fairly succumbed to
the dread of being a witness to the sorrow which she
was powerless either to alleviate or overcome.

It was by Marcia's advice that Mrs Lascelles took
to her bed ; and here it was that the genuine kindness
of that lady's disposition evinced itself. She had arranged
with quiet thoughtfulness that it should be her
province to receive Mr Leadham, and to make him acquainted
with all the particulars of the sad catastrophe.
You are worn and spent," she said to her hostess,
and Willina Clavering has more than her own portion
of trouble to bear. Besides, under the circumstances,
it is possible that Mr Leadham may bear the
intelligence more calmly from a stranger. He cannot
fail to see that others are partakers in this overwhelming
sorrow, and he may perhaps feel his own share of
it less keenly when he finds that the living have so
much need of consideration and sympathy."

Marcia was right. We weep and mourn for our
dead ; day upon day, and night upon night, bear witness

to the lamentations of the children of earth for
those who have passed away never to return. How is
it that, in the great mass of human experience, so few
tears are shed for the miseries of the living,  so few
regrets are expressed or felt for the sins and sufferings
of human kind in general ?

We take it for granted, and sad experience confirms
our belief, that at some period of life, sooner or later 
God knows when  sorrow and anguish must be the
portion of each and every one of us. Consequently
the edge of our sympathy for others becomes rounded
off to utter smoothness. Know you not, oh brother
and sister ! that I have passed through the furnace of
affliction ? I and mine have borne the bitter burden ;
we have suffered and lived. Think me not hard that I
look upon your grief as a necessary part of our being ;
it is the common lot. " The whole creation groaned
and travaileth in pain together until now."

To be not only fellow-sufferers, but to stand face to
face with one great agony, more surely perhaps than
any other circumstance of life, draws us out of ourselves
and turns us to a sympathising consideration of
our fellow-mourner. Thus it was with Mr Leadham.
Although unprepared for the nature of the calamity
which had laid his own future desolate, the matter of
the telegram despatched to summon him was grave
enough to bring the conviction that the accident of
which it made mention must be of a nature to seriously
affect the life of his betrothed. He, therefore, received
the intelligence which Marcia had undertaken to convey

with the calmness of a man who felt assured that
he had hoped against hope. He sat silent, pale and
heart-stricken for a time ; but as Marcia went on to
relate the dangerous state of him who had run such a
terrible risk in the futile attempt to save Miss Dare,
and at the same time depicted Miss Clavering's position,
the iron frost of despair melted suddenly in the
afflicted gentleman's soul. Rising up and extending
his hands, he exclaimed, " Let me see them 1 let me at
least pour out my gratitude to Mr La Louche. Lie
young lady's portion in this awful trial is perhaps the
heaviest of all. God help her ! I would fain condole
with her, but this is scarcely the time."

Marcia agreed with him in this opinion. At the
same time she assured Mr Leadham of her conviction
that Willina would be gratified at his concern for her
amid his own deep trouble. Then she asked hesitatingly,
" Would he wish to see the remains ? They
were deposited in a chamber up-stairs. All had been
done that could be done ; but she was sorry to say
that the features were not recognisable  the action
of the fire had been so terrible. At such a time,"
Marcia continued, " it would be cruel in me to conceal
the truth. Let me advise you : it were better that you
should not attempt to see her as she lies now."

Is it as terrible as that ? " gasped the poor gentleman,
with trembling lips and face as ashy pale as if
the bitterness of death were for him wellnigh over-past.
" Can no trace remain of what she was once in
life ? "

Marcia could not for a moment trust herself to reply.
She raised her hand in mute deprecation, and
shook her head. At length, rallying her fortitude,
for she felt that she must not give way to even a
moment's weakness, she said 

Oh, do not attempt it ! Be satisfied to remember
her as you last saw her  fair and comely ; that impression
must be so grateful to you, that it should
never be erased from your mind. Do not  do not, I
beseech you  displace so gracious a remembrance.
Know for your comfort that almost the last sound of
her voice was the utterance of your name  Cecil ! "

She called me ? " said Mr Leadham, taking solace
from this incident. "In her death-agony she spoke
my name ! "

"Yes," said Marcia, solemnly; "and then her
thoughts flew to the dear Christ who died in bitter
suffering for us all. No words were distinguished
after that."

Then the tears flowed down the mourner's face, and
Marcia, full of sympathy for that overcharged heart,
left it to know its own bitterness. With this feeling
she averted her face, and said 

"You will be quite quiet  quite undisturbed here.
I will bring some refreshment presently." So saying,
she left the room, gently closing the door, adding from
the outside as she did so, " Do not leave the house
till I return ; it is probable that Mrs Lascelles may
wish to see you."

Allowing twenty minutes to elapse, Miss La Touche

returned to the drawing-room, bearing some refreshments
set out on a small tray in her hand. " Drink a
glass of wine," she said, almost commandingly ; "it
will revive you. Mrs Lascelles is asleep, so cannot
see you now ; but pray be here tomorrow at eleven
o'clock, as the doctors will meet you then, and the
last arrangements will be made. Now, you know, it
is your duty to take care of yourself : my nephew, if
he pass the night tolerably, will be better able to see
you than he is at present. But an unfavourable
change may take place at any moment: we all depend
so much upon you. By the way, where are you
staying ? "

I have taken rooms at the Great Western Hotel,
Paddington, as I thought it possible that I could not
be received here just at present," Mr Leadham made
answer.

I will not ask you to remain longer," returned
Marcia, taking the young man's hand. " Let me
advise you to go and rest for a few hours. Mr
Lascelles will call upon you about eight o'clock. He
is not at home now; but I know that he is very
anxious to see you. Now, pray, bear up ; remember
that the accident might have happened where there
were no friends nigh. Take comfort in the knowledge
that all has been wisely ordered ; and oh ! in your
prayers remember poor Stephen, my dear nephew."

Mr Leadham silently pressed her hand, and in
another moment he was out of the house, and, nearly
blind with misery, made his way towards the Great

Western Hotel. Here his evident distress attracted
the attention of one of the waiters, who inquired ina
sympathetic tone of voice if there was anything
he could do for him  expressing as he did so his
apprehension that Mr Leadham was in trouble. A
fellow-feeling makes utter strangers kindly ; the man
had very recently lost his only brother in an appalling
railway accident.

Mr Leadham thanked the waiter for his kindness,
and told him that he was a mourner from the effects
of a fearful catastrophe which had taken place close
by. "The facts are too harrowing to be touched
upon," Mr Leadham continued; "it is dreadful even
to think of them."

Oh, sir ! do you refer to the terrible occurrence
in Bournemouth Gardens last week ? "

Mr Leadham nodded affirmatively.

It has caused a great sensation throughout all the
neighbourhood and beyond it, sir. Some of the guests
stayed here on that night ; they came straight from
the house, and so we heard of it. Their distress was
quite painful to see, and every one was so concerned
for the poor gentleman the young lady was going to
marry. Perhaps his share of the misfortune has been
the hardest of all ; he was not there to try to help her."

I am that man," Mr Leadham replied. " But
my trouble  though great enough, God knows 
is not the most severe portion of this sad affliction.
The gentleman who tried so hard to save her is at
this moment in peril of death from the effects of the

burns and injuries done to his chest ; and he, poor
fellow ! leaves a betrothed wife."

So the man had heard. Might he advise the gentleman
to lie down for an hour, and try and not take
on ? What would he like for dinner ? It could begot
ready in an hour, or at any time.

Mr Leadham shook his head at the mention of
refreshment, but added that he would retire to his
room at once. " I expect a friend to call upon meat
eight o'clock this evening." So saying, he walked
wearily up-stairs. Subsequently the manager of the
hotel looked in upon him, and at length prevailed
upon him to swallow a slight repast.

It was nine o'clock when Mr Lascelles was announced.
After the first greetings, he said, " Stephen
La Touche died about an hour ago  it was very sudden
at the last," then he sank into a chair and trembled
from head to foot. He had nerved himself to utter
thus much, and for some moments afterwards the
two men were pale and awe-stricken  the power of
articulation seemed to have entirely deserted them.
It would be hard to conjecture which of the two suffered
the more acutely.

At length, with a great effort, Mr Leadham roused
himself : it was to inquire for Miss Clavering.

"she is conscious," replied Mr Lascelles, " and bears
up bravely. The doctors, however, would be more
satisfied as to her state if she could by any means be
brought to shed tears. At present she seems like one
turned to stone."

She was with him ? "

Yes ; it was a great mercy. The nurse suddenly
saw a very peculiar change in the patient  it was
that ashy, leaden hue on the features which so often
precedes dissolution  and called out from the room to
Miss Clavering, who, poor thing, had gone to sit on
the stairs for the sake of changing the air. He knew
her, and a few words were interchanged : then he
died,  the best of his name by a very long way. Poor
Stephen ! "

The two gentlemen, after a short silence, nerved
themselves to discuss the necessary details of Miss
Dare's funeral.

j\Tiss La Touche has told you all concerning this
awful catastrophe," Mr Lascelles said ; " do not think
that I am wanting in sympathy towards you, but I
cannot touch upon the subject, although it is never
out of mv mind  indeed I cannot."

Mr Leadham understood perfectly. To suffer in
silence, to make no plaint by word or sign, is perhaps
the truest mourning for such sorrow as this, even
when the bond of love has not cemented the relations
of the living and the dead : but where the purest and
best of the heart's affections are withered by the blow,
the golden bowl may become o'ercharged with the
ashes of a speechless sorrow, and the pure metal may
suddenly burst into a thousand fragments, because the
waters of sympathy have never been permitted to cast
their healing drops into the cup of woe. It was well for
Mr Leadham that Marcia La Touche had told him all.

VOL. III. R

He had struggled, and tried to harden himself; but
kind nature had been more powerful than he, and in his
lonely hours he had experienced the blessed relief of
tears. Oh, ye tears ! the Man of Sorrows despised
you not. He wept over the grave of His dead friend.
Oh, ye tears ! how many hearts have you saved from
breaking !

It was arranged that ]\Iiss Dare's obsequies should
take place in the afternoon of the following day, at
Kendal Green Cemetery. A telegram had been received,
stating that the eldest brother of the deceased lady
would be in London at a very early hour the next
morning.

"Mr La Touche's friends are mostly in or near
London," Mr Lascelles said. " There has not been
time to arrange whether Mr La Touche's remains
will be sent to his eldest brother's house in town,
or to the family mansion in the country where the
old man now lives. I sent a note to the brother
before I came to you  he's a queer fish, and I don't
want to have much to do with him, either on business
or in any other way. However, I must not think
of my own preferences just now. I am thankful
that this awful affair keeps me thoroughly occupied :
without this, I really think I should go mad."

Percival happened to be finishing an unusually late
dinner when Mr Lascelles's communication was put
into his hands. Hitherto he had believed, or affected
to believe, that Marcia's report of their brother's dangerous
state was exaggerated ; and as for the opinion

of the doctors, Percival detested the whole race of
them, and was quite sincere in the belief that very
few of this confraternity knew as much about medicine
as he did himself. It must be stated, in justice to Mr
La Touche, that he had resolved to go in the brougham
which had been ordered to fetch his aunt from Bournemouth
Gardens at ten o'clock that evening, and thus,
under cover of this relative, to make inquiry for
Stephen, and do the proper thing. Being convinced
that this arrangement would not compromise him in
any one way, and that all would end well, the intelligence
conveyed in Mr Lascelles's note fell like a
thunderbolt on Percival's sense. In a moment all
his unkindness and paltry trickery, and the underhand
dealing he had employed against his dead
brother, rose in array before him,  this equivocation,
that evil-speaking, the other absolute falsehood.
Had he seen handwriting on the wall, he could
not have been more surprised or taken aback : the
quick subtle temperament with which he was naturally
endowed was the agent which now saved him
from actual confusion and prostration, and he at
once sought refuge from the reproaches of his conscience
in vigorous action.

Scarcely had he mastered the contents of Mr Las-celles's
letter than he rang the bell, countermanded
the carriage, and ordered a cab to be at the door at
once. He elicited further particulars from the messenger
who had been sent with his letter.

Mr Lascelles had just returned from the Great

Western Hotel when Percival was announced. He
received Mr La Touche with cold civility, but extended
no further courtesy.

This Percival affected not to perceive, but took
refuge in rapid speech and the appearance of violent
haste. Notwithstanding his efforts to treat the circumstance
as a business matter, he was evidently
very nervous, and in spite of himself his voice became
broken, and his sentences indistinct and confused.

I had no idea it would be  be so fatal," he said
at length, looking hard at an ottoman as the words
fell from him. " Thought the thing serious, but not
dangerous  not very dangerous. I've come for my
aunt  is she bearing up ? I conclude a doctor is in
the house  there ought to be one."

"Dr Williams of Yarneshire was here, and left
about half an hour after your brother expired," replied
Mr Lascelles. " I told you in my note that the end
was very sudden ; in fact, the favourable turn which
took place a few hours previously led the doctors to
think that the patient would have struggled for some
days longer."

Ah ! then it is not to be wondered at that I did
not take alarm earlier : my aunt is so liable to exaggerate
illness, that I really did not credit all her
reports," Percival said.

It would have been better if you had," Mr Las-celles
returned gruffly, for he was a plain straightforward
man, and Percival's heartlessness thoroughly
exasperated him. "However, this is not the time

to make remarks," he concluded. " Can I assist you ?
Have you formed any plan for the last arrangements
? "

"The reams shall be removed to Wheatley tomorrow,
if possible," Percival made answer, after a
moment's reflection. " I will send a messenger to my
youngest brother, who is there, and he will break the
tidings to my father. Do you propose being present
at the funeral ? "

CHAPTEE XII.

A STEP 'TWIXT life AND DEATH.

As this was put as a question, and did not even imply
an invitation, Mr Lascelles felt at first inclined to
repudiate any such intention. A moment's reflection,
however, decided him.

I will attend your brother's funeral," he replied,
after a slight pause, " not only on account of the high
respect with which I regarded him, but also for the
sympathy which I entertain towards Miss Clavering."

She does not intend to be present ? " said Percival,
startled by the sound of Willina's name into speaking
in a tone which betrayed disapprobation if not some
dread. " I am aware that it is beginning to be fashionable
for ladies to attend funerals," he continued, as he
observed disgust depicted on the face of Mr Lascelles ;
but as Miss Clavering is no relation, she will not,
of course, attempt to attend my brother's funeral."

Mr Lascelles undertook to assure Mr La Touche
that he need not fear any intrusion on the part of
Willina. " Your late brother's betrothed wife will be

represented by me," he replied,  "the most fit and
proper person under the circumstances, seeing that
dear Stephen passed out of life under my roof, and
Miss Clavering is at this moment the guest of Mrs
Lascelles. You may perhaps wish to see your aunt,"
he continued, " and I think your undertaker should
call upon me tomorrow, or the day after : there were
those present on the evening of the catastrophe who
have intimated their wish to attend their dead friend
to the grave."

I don't know who these can be," exclaimed Percival,
sharply ; " we don't want a procession,  it would
increase the expense very considerably, don't you
see ? "

I would recommend you to invite the friends to
whom I allude," returned Mr Lascelles, ignoring the
latter part of Percival's speech. "Their names and
addresses can be given either to the undertaker or to
any person whom you may depute to represent you in
this matter. Here is Miss La Touche ; pray consult
her wishes in any arrangements you may have to
make." So saying, Mr Lascelles left the room.

Marcia entered, tear-stained, and in that fade, condition
of toilet which militates disastrously against the
personal appearance of any woman past the age of thirty.
Her eyes were swollen, and her hair was disarranged
to a state of absolute dishevelment ; the tones of her
voice also betrayed her utter weakness and exhaustion.

Her grief, deep and sincere as it was, did not raise
her in the estimation of her nephew ; indeed the spectacle

which she presented, if it did not harden his
heart, certainly contributed very greatly to harden his
manner.

Now, no scene," said he ; " what's happened can't
be helped, but there is no use in crying over spilt
milk. I intend to do everything that is right; but
you know, Marcia, I cannot pretend to be very sorry,
and I won't."

Oh, Percival, be kind to me," gasped the poor
woman. " He was your own brother, and he forgave
you ; do not, I implore you, carry animosity beyond
the grave."

No, no," answered Percival ; " all I want to make
you understand is, that I absolutely decline to betaken
to see the  the remains, and to be preached
to, and all that kind of thing."

I would like to believe that you say this because
your conscience reproaches you," Miss La Touche replied.
" Come, Percival, you cannot be so hardhearted
as you wish me to think. You must know
that neither you nor I behaved to the poor fellow as
we ought to have done."

Are you coming home now, or are you not ? " inquired
her nephew in a sharp tone ; " the cab that
brought me here is waiting."

Still in the hope of softening him, Marcia acceded
at once. " Let me just say to Mrs Lascelles and Willina
Clavering that I will come for an hour in the
morning. I want a night's rest, for I feel sadly
spent."

You do look an object, and no mistake," returned
the nephew, brutally. " Look sharp, for I did not
time the cabman, and, goodness knows, the fare he
will demand will be heavy enough. These fellows
are always ready to take advantage when they can."
(Which, by the way, is not true ; no race is so mercilessly
calumniated as are London cabman : it is upon
them that the petty meanness of travelling humanity
are ruthlessly poured, and more especially those of
female humanity. People who deny themselves in
nothing, whether of dress or amusement, are often
penurious to dishonesty in the matter of cab fares.)

Miss La Touche reached her own room with thankfulness,
having extorted a promise from her nephew
that he would go down to Wheatley early in the
morning.

Although sleep was out of the question, Marcia was
wonderfully refreshed by the solitude, and also by the
comfort of a leisurely toilet. She was careful to be
in time to preside at the breakfast-table in the morning;
and though Percival seized the opportunity to
complain of the cook, and grumble at the gas-bill, and
abuse the food, he preserved on the whole a decent
demeanour, and spoke with some degree of reverence
regarding the business before him.

Marcia was anxious to know how her brother would
bear the news, and as her nephew appeared to be
somewhat subdued in spirit, she ventured to request
him to send her a telegram to Bournemouth Gardens.
She valiantly declared that she intended to betake

herself to Mr Lascelles's house as soon as possible after
she had attended to her home duties.

It was a great relief to Miss La Touche when her
nephew, after fidgeting about and ordering and countermanding,
finally took himself off to the railway
station for Wheatley.

She, however, waited prudently in the house for a
full hour, as Percival was one of those persons of
whose movements nobody could ever be quite sure.
Even on this solemn occasion he would have had no
compunction in returning suddenly, if he thought his
sudden reappearance would surprise or annoy the
household.

Persons of a like calibre have a proclivity for inflicting
small tyrannies : the only comfort is, that these
do not occur when they run counter to the plans of
the individual so offending. Marcia, therefore, felt
pretty safe.

Later in the day the remains of poor Miss Dare
were consigned to their last resting-place in Kendal
Green. Then there only needed to make arrangements
for the obsequies of Stephen La Touche.

Many inquiries and cards of condolence were left
both at Bournemouth Gardens and at Hinton Square.
Among the latter was a letter which Lord Hieover,
who had called to inquire for Willina, had requested
Mr Lascelles to forward to Wheatley.

It was addressed to the elder Mr La Touche, and
bore the intimation that the Viscount would be glad
to attend the funeral of his son Stephen in the capacity

of a sincere friend both of the deceased and of
Miss Clavering. Information was requested as to the
day and the hour of interment.

His lordship further added that his carriage and
servants would travel down by train, as soon as the
fitting time could be ascertained.

The old gentleman perused the missive with some
degree of elation. Things had certainly not been
always pleasant during the lifetime of his son ; still, a
peer was a peer, and a Viscount at the funeral would
atone for a multitude of sins on the part of the
deceased.

Percival, on being consulted, swore that the Viscount
should not attend. " It was only a way of taking part
with Miss Clavering," he said, " which, at such a time,
was highly reprehensible ; besides, Lord Hieover had
never called at Hinton Square."

You forget ; Stephen stayed at Hieover more than
once," said his father. " The Viscount evidently wishes
to show some sympathy ; besides, he was your brother's
friend. We used poor Stephen hardly : I am sorry,
very sorry, and I cannot repel any one who wishes to
pay respect to his memory." Then the old man bowed
his head on his hands and mourned  mourned, perhaps,
as much for the errors of the living as for the
loss of the dead.

Percival was beginning to rouse his father by remarks
upon a totally different subject, with the view
of distracting his attention ; but his endeavours were
quenched by the entrance of Mrs La Touche.

Don't you torment your father I " said she, looking
Percival steadily in the face. " The Viscount is coming
to the funeral, and whoever else is invited or
chooses to come. Me and Andrew have made out a
list, and I shall have a man down from London to see
that everything is done ship-shape  for, of course,
there will be a proper breakfast."

Percival saw that his mother-in-law held Lord Hie-over's
letter in her hand, and convinced himself, moreover,
that the attitude of Mrs La Touche was very
much the attitude of one who intended to take her
own way. He stood silent, and regarded her with an
amazement which was voiceless.

Now, about chief mourner," said she,  " that's your
father's business and his duty, and your place, Mr
Percival, is to give him your arm and support him.
If you prefer it, I will go with my husband. I am
strong, and he can lean upon me ; and you can stand
at the foot of the grave, side by side with Andrew."

Percival made no reply, but contented himself by
staring at Mrs La Touche, who, perfectly unconscious
of his notice, proceeded to deliver the rest of her
programme.

There's Mr M'Taggart, by the by ; his place as a
cousin must be selected."

Have you invited him ? " inquired Percival, aghast,
as he perceived that the arrangements he had intended
to make were in a great measure anticipated, and
that Mrs La Touche was quite ready to put in an
appearance as semi-chief mourner in the event of any

recalcitrant action on the part of Percival, either in
regard to the attendance or to the bidding of the
guests.

I don't want to interfere with you, Mrs La Touche,"
Percival said at length, and rather crossly,  " you are
dominant here : but as I have had all the trouble in
London, I am certainly entitled to assert my opinion
about the attendance of the mourners. Lord Hie-over
is the only one to whom I take exception, and I
must say that I hold his offering to be present as a
very great piece of impertinence." He looked quite
triumphant at having, as he thought, snuffed out a
Viscount.

Well, he is to come nevertheless," Mrs La Touche
replied. ' Any one, be he peer or peasant, that was a
friend of Stephen's is welcome here, especially when
they come to show respect, as is now the case. You
had better take some luncheon now, and return to
London by the 3.30 train. Of course the Lascelles
people would wish the removal to take place as soon
as possible. Poor things ! they have had a load of
sorrow. By the by, you must see the undertaker, and
tell him that the funeral will take place here on
Saturday morning at eleven o'clock."

Have you any more orders ? " demanded Percival,
in a tone of high sarcasm.

None at present  I think I have thought of everything,"
Mrs La Touche answered, en grand serieiox ;
for her heart was heavy, and she had scarcely regarded
the tone of Percival's inquiry.

t

Her fixed intention and wish was, that all should
be done with due decorum, avoiding both stint or
lavish display, and that the old father should take
pride in evincing the last respect to the memory of
his son. The latter had not been treated with kindness,
it was true ; but there was no one of his children
whom, in his heart of hearts, the old man held in
greater esteem than he did his son Stephen. All this
Mrs La Touche knew; there could be no hypocrisy
therefore in conducting his funeral rites with all
honour.

What need to dwell on the sombre ceremony ?
They carried him out and buried him at the appointed
time ; and then there came the turmoil of
business, and all the painful duties which must be
performed when one has departed from his place forevermore.
Fortunate it was for Willina that she had
a home in London ; most unfortunate would it have
been in her sight had the Glascotts arrived, and she
had been living in her guardian's house : she felt that
she could not now breathe under the same roof with
her guardian's wife.

In spite of herself, the opinion was constantly with
her that had Lillian exerted her influence with her
husband, she would long ago have been a happy married
woman. Instinctively she was convinced that
Mrs Glascott had destroyed her happiness ; instinctively
she felt persuaded that it was with cold, malicious
intent that she had done so ; instinctively she
saw the subdued gleam of triumph in that woman's

eye, when she should have learned that, by the ordering
of the higher irresistible will, Willina Clavering
could never now marry Stephen La Touche.

No, no," she said to Peggy ; " let me see Cousin
Everard when he comes, but spare me the sight of his
wife. There are more reasons than I care to speak of
which make me shudder at the idea of seeing Lillian
Olascott  spare me that, at least just now."

These words were impressive at the time, for Willina
had ever, with cautious prudence, refrained from making
the slightest remark which might militate against
Mrs Glascott's position as her cousin's wife. None
knew, and none recognised more readily than herself,
how delicate, under the best of circumstances, is the
position of a young and handsome woman, the years
of whose spouse number those of her own father.
Consideration also for Mary Clavering, and natural
affection for her brother, had made her unusually careful
lest even a hint should escape her that she was
dubious of the loyalty of Francis towards his wife.

Strangely enough, the feelings of distrust which had
naturally been awakened by the scene which she had
witnessed at Tring returned in full force now. The
flood of sorrow seemed, as it were, to sweep each weed
and tare of evil which choke the everyday life to the
surface, there to lie and grow rank, and cast its bitter
influence on the present suffering, far more persistently,
and much more grievously, than upon the past experience.


Wrestle with her spirit as Willina would and did,

the idea was ever present with her that Lillian Glas-cost
was her ill-concealed foe  that she was even then
exulting in her distress. Her woman's magnetic instinct
made this as clear to her as was the sun that
was shining in the heavens.

How piteous was it for those who loved her to see
her in her misery ! Speechless, apathetic, almost blind,
at one phase ; at another, restless, helpful as ever, and
giving way to sharp laughter, which, though natural in
one sense, was as the grind of the wheel of that mill of
sorrow through which she was passing.

Peggy at this sound would fly to her own room, and
throw her hands upwards towards heaven, and cry
bitterly. " Anything, anything but that," she said to
the doctor, in her warm sympathy. " Oh ! what can
we do, what shall we do, to make her shed tears ? "

Then came a phase when Willina sat motionless almost
for hours, her eyes fixed intently, with that " faraway
" look, which marks those who have gone through
or even those who foresee  some great tribulation,
upon her careworn face.

This caused the physician greater anxiety. "We
must make her weep," he said. " If she could be once
made to shed tears, I should have every hope of bringing
her round : as it is, the state of my patient is so
grave that, if this continues, I cannot answer for the
consequences."

All means, both direct and indirect, were tried ; even
the presence of Mary Clavering had but the result of
bringing a wan smile to the sufferer's face. It was a

point gained, however, that she retained her sister-in-law's
hand, and inquired about the infant. Peggy,
now, was almost ready to weep from jealousy.

Mr Glascott had been admitted to see his cousin,
but his visit produced neither satisfaction nor antipathy.
Willina met him courteously, and even spoke
of Stephen, but all in so impassive a manner that it
was impossible for Cousin Everard to satisfy himself
whether his presence had been welcome or otherwise.
He was inexpressibly shocked as he scanned Willina's
altered features, and heard the sharp snapping laugh ;
but his distress reached its climax when, in spite of
sundry grimaces from Peggy, he proposed to bring Mrs
Glascott to visit her the next day.

Then Willina rose to her feet and uttered a loud
scream  a scream so full of terror, that Mr Glascott
recoiled in alarm. " What, Willina ! " he said, soothingly,
" won't you see Lillian ? We have come from
Brydone expressly to induce you to return there with
us. You know it will be our study to nurse and comfort
you."

Be quiet, Mr Glascott," said Peggy, in a side tone.
Don't you see the subject is  is not welcome ? "

But Mr Glascott did not see. In his blind adoration
of his wife, he could not realise that his ward, or any
other human creature, could repulse any attention
coming from Lillian.

What he might have said in addition, it is impossible
even to conjecture ; but Willina suddenly put an
end to further overtures by saying, in a quiet slow

VOL. III. S

tone, " I will never put my foot in Brydone more.
Cousin Everard, I am glad to see you ; but I am not

well  Mary " and with her sister's name on her

lips, Willina Clavering, for the first time since the
disaster, sank into long and deep unconsciousness.

How Mrs Leppell got Mr Glascott away, and how
she managed to soothe him into the belief that misery
had so undermined Willina's sense that she was hardly
responsible for her words, she never could exactly tell.
It was sad to see the distress of the old gentleman.
But, sure," remarked Peggy, in true Hibernian style,
he ought to have thought of that before."

A month passed, and no change took place in Willina's
state. Uncle Alick, by Mary's express desire,
came to see her, and, much to his gratification, she reminded
him of the kindness that had prompted him to
lend Hieover Grange for the honeymoon. "We are
both very grateful," the poor girl said. "You don't
see Mr La Touche at present, but he has been here ;
he tells me that he is very happy, and they know in
heaven that he was never likely to be mad."

Thus, in a confused state of past memory and future
hope, Willina Clavering's darkened day was passed.

Would you like to come back with me to Tring ? "
said Mary one morning to her sister. " Frank would
be so pleased if you will come ; and Uncle Alick  you
like him  he will travel with us, and bring his servant.
You were always fond of Tring."

Is Frank to be at home ? "

"Yes; he has made arrangements which will dispense

with the necessity of lecturing just now. He
may have to go to see some German professor in a
month's time ; but even then he would not be long
away. Do come."

I ought to go to Dunlashoe," said Willina,  " there
is a good deal to be done there. Peggy says this
house is to be given up next week. Marmaduke was
obliged to leave, you know. Let me go to Dunlashoe ;
he was often there. I will come to you when Francis
goes to the German professor." Then she relapsed
into her silent torpid state, a true embodiment of grief.
Sorrow can speak, but intense grief is dumb, eating itself
into the heart, and sapping the foundations of life.

Do not thwart her wishes, or advise her to change
this plan," said the physician, as Mrs Clavering communicated
this resolve to him ; " it is rather a point
gained that your sister has so far exerted herself as to
show a preference. It is very possible that the return
home may awaken an interest in passing events ; and
as she has expressed this wish, do not delay in taking
her to Dunlashoe as soon as possible."

This good physician had been one of those called in
at the time of poor Stephen's mortal agony. He was
consequently much interested in the case throughout ;
but he shook his head doubtfully as he looked at
Willina. JSTot one tear had she yet shed, her voice
had not been heard to quiver with emotion : how long-was
that high-strung state of the nerves to last ?

Mrs Clavering returned to her home, not even
yielding to the temptation of passing a few days at

Hunter's Lodge. She was comforted by the kindness
of her uncle, who had thoughtfully sent his servant to
Ireland with Peggy and Willina.

Now, do you make haste and get well," he said to
the latter, as he placed the ladies on board the steamer.
I shall soon come and visit you, and you know you
promised to take care of all the guns I left behind
me. Please to see that they have not gone rusty : now
Quinn is with you, let him overhaul the whole lot."

Willina tried to smile, but she thanked him for
all his kindness. "You have been very good to us
both," said she. " God bless you ! I am glad you are
going to Tring."

The truth is, Mary," said the Viscount to his niece,
as he returned to the carriage, "I thought of going
with them ; but the sight of that girl's stricken face
and her quiet resignation is too much for me. I
could not stand it. I am sure those two fools who
delayed this marriage must, by this time, repent their
obstinacy."

Mr Glascott is sorely grieved. You see Willina
made no sign, and asked no favours ; and it must be
admitted that her guardian acted with right intention,
and had some tangible reasons for refusing his consent.

o o

When the time had expired, Mr Glascott redeemed his
promise ; but Mr La Touche held out, to punish his
son, it has been said, for inheriting some money from
an aunt."

"Glascott went to see Willina, did he not?" inquired
the Viscount.

He went twice ; but his visits did not seem to be
very acceptable. When he spoke of bringing his wife,
it seems WilHna was roused to great animosity,  so
much so, that Mrs Leppell had to entreat him to keep
Mrs Glascott away from the house."

"There is something about Lillian that I cannot
like," said Lord Hieover presently. " I know she is
your friend, Mary, and I don't want to hurt your
feelings ; but there is something so secret and heartless
about her, and, what is more provoking, perhaps," continued
Uncle Alick with a strange smile, "there is
nothing actually to complain of regarding her. She
respects the  what the French call fine work "

'' Les convenances I suppose you mean," answered
Mrs Clavering, helping her uncle out.

Exactly  les conveyances of life ; is attentive and
kind to her husband ; keeps a good house, and keeps
her own counsel. I don't like such characters : when
young people are so unnaturally guarded and reticent,
they break out in later years. Mrs Lillian will do so,
I could bet a good round sum."

Lillian is reserved," said Mary, whose faith in her
friend was yet scarcely shaken ; " but she never speaks
against any one."

"But if she does not speak against persons, I am
very sure she can act against them, and that Willina
knows it," replied Uncle Alick, with a knowing look.

She is very much liked and admired, is Lillian,"
Mrs Clavering answered ; " indeed I have heard her
spoken of as being a very sweet woman."

"Sweet woman, be hanged !" retorted Lord Hieover,
getting nettled at the persistence of his niece. " I tell
you what she is like  that French cream thing that
looks very nice and cool outside,  something like
trifle."

Meringue, do you mean, Uncle Alick ? but meringues
are very sweet, you know."

Yes, my dear ; but there are meringues and meringues,
and Mrs Lillian is like one of the sort that
has a good drop of pungent liquor concealed within its
folds of froth. Mind, too  don't let that boy of yours
stay too long down at Brydone, or she will be usurping
your place v/ith him altogether."

Mary sighed; and, as if she did not care to discuss
this topic, she turned to the subject of Willina Clavering.
" It seems so dreadful," said she, " that not one
tear has she shed since that awful catastrophe of the
fire."

They have got a doctor somewhere near them at
Dunlashoe, but he is half his time scouring the
country-side," said Lord Hieover ; " when he has nothing
to do, he goes out shooting for days. I suppose
Marmaduke will take care that he is tied to his post ;
and I know the London doctor has written to him,
and given Peggy written instructions also."

It was truly an anxious time for those who were
interested in Willina Clavering. She reached 
in safety, and for a short time she seemed to
rally, and to return to her old pursuits with some
degree of energy. This only lasted for a while. Her

favourite occupation was to select some lonely moor,
and there sit with her dog at her feet, silent and apparently
absorbed in thought. The peasants, as they
passed to and fro, would give her the kindly " God save
you ! " but she would merely acknowledge the salute in
her courteous way, and let them pass on. It is a
terrible sight to see a heart thus breaking without
either word or sign.

At length the crisis came, and it came much more
suddenly than was looked for. Until now Willina had
resolutely refused to remain in bed, or even to lie
down for an hour during the day, and she had also
most pertinaciously rejected all indulgences which
might lead to the supposition that she was an invalid.

One morning she found she could not rise, and at
length she admitted that she was very ill, and, of
her own accord, requested that the doctor should be
sent for. Most fortunately, also, Colin M'Taggart
had managed to come to pay a long-promised visit
to Dunlashoe, and his ready aid and solid commonsense
were most valuable in the household at that
time.

Some hours afterwards all the symptoms of decided
low fever were apparent, alternating with fainting-fits,
and occasionally slight delirium. At the end of
the third day, late at night, Peggy, who had thought
the patient to be sleeping, and who had risen to call
the servant whose turn it was to watch, was surprised
to see a blue-grey shade on Willina's face, and further,
to find that the nostrils were blue and pinched in

appearance : the half-closed mouth, also, showing both
rows of teeth, was an alarming sign.

Mrs Leppell sent the servant down for help, and
Colin, who was in the house, went to her assistance.
He immediately summoned the doctor, and used
every effort to soothe his hostess and to endeavour
to restore life to the patient by constantly chafing her
hands, and also by pouring, or trying to pour, a little
brandy down the throat. This last it was impossible
to do, and Colin was compelled to relinquish his idea
that her state was that of suspended animation only.
He, however, made no remark to this effect, but
waited in the greatest anxiety to hear what the
doctor's verdict would be.

This did not take long to discover. After using the
various methods prescribed by his art to reanimate
the patient, Mr Kelly was compelled to state that
further efforts would be vain. Miss Clavering had
died in her sleep, probably within the hour. " He was
not much surprised," he said ; " there was little reactionary
power, and it had appeared to him that the
lady had never made an effort to secure recovery : he
could see that she had gone through a great amount of
mental suffering. What could he do ? he would assist
them in every way."

Mrs Leppell felt sure of that. Thanking him, she
begged Mr Kelly to find her husband quickly and send
him to the house.

Colin only awaited advice and instruction before
sending off telegrams and letters. These two threw

themselves immediately into work, in order not to
break down utterly ; but their hearts were sore, and
it could hardly be otherwise than that they should
look upon this calamity as a dispensation at once
mysterious and inexplicable.

She kept innocency, and took heed to the thing
that was right, and that has brought her peace at the
last," said Colin, quoting the Psalmist of old.

True," said Mrs Leppell,  " peace for her ; but oh !
what desolation for us ! Dear Willina, sweet helpful
soul ! " and then Peggy's full heart relieved its pain
with a burst of tears.

The usual sad business of arranging the funeral and
settling the form and place of burial was carried out ;
and as the interment was to take place in the parish
church at Tring, where Mr Glascott's vault lay, a
speedy removal of the remains was imperative. Mr
Clavering, as it happened, was out with an exploring
geological society somewhere in the Highlands, Mr
Glascott was confined to his bed by serious illness,
and it was at first probable that the great responsibility
of conveying the body to England would devolve
upon Marmaduke Leppell and Colin M'Taggart.

Assistance, however, arrived from a very unexpected
quarter, and that was in the intimation of
Uncle Alick by telegram that he would be at 
as early as possible, and that it was his earnest
wish to behold Miss Clavering once more before the
last arrangements were completed which would close
her away for ever from human sight. This gave much

comfort to the saddened hearts in the Irish home,
mingled perhaps with some surprise that the Viscount
should undertake a responsibility which was by no
means incumbent upon him as a matter of duty ; but
naturally, like all the rest of her friends, he admired
and respected their dear Willina.

Lord Hieover arrived at the appointed time, and,
after taking some rest, he was conducted into the
room wherein lay the remains of the woman who had
been to him as a shining light  a noble example of
feminine obedience, patience combined with a judicious
courage. He had evidently put a strong check
upon himself, and summoned all his manhood to
enable him to bear the sight of Willina lying dead in
her coffin, after the long struggle she had so well
borne in the battle of life.

All futile, all useless," he exclaimed aloud, as he
looked at the pale still face. *' Oh, why is it that the
young and the best among us are ever taken away
the first?"

"It is by the great mercy of God," said Colin
M'Taggart, who stood side by side with the Viscount,
and whom the great leveller. Death, had made bold.
Think you, my lord, that we should be standing so
heart-stricken and sorrowful here had that dear lady
been a worldly hollow creature, with no purpose but
to wear fine raiment and cackle vanities ? It is best
that the Lord does not leave us to our own judgment :
He knows more safely whom to spare and whom to
take away."

The Viscount nodded assent, and looked for a
moment askance at Colin, whose face glowed with the
faith and trust which his words implied. Then he
turned, and, stooping downwards, he looked intently
into Willina's face.

His gaze was so intent that Colin wondered if he
were seeking some likeness, or if the change in the
features of the dead was so great as to incite this fixed
attention.

Suddenly a great cry of amazement, mingled with
joy, burst from the Viscount's lips. Raising his arms
above his head, he exclaimed, " She is not dead ! she is
not dead ! " And again, almost in the grand old words
of Scripture, he repeated, " She is not dead, but sleeper.
Friends, this is but a trance ; help me to lift
her out of that frightful coffin," he continued, looking
round for aid, " lest she wake and die of horror to find
herself thus dressed for the grave. There is not a
moment to lose. Look ! she is not dead ! "

The heightened sound of Lord Hieover's voice in
which he made this appeal brought others into the
room, each looking inquiringly at the speaker, and
helplessly one at the other. Colin ventured to lay his
hand on the Viscount's arm. " Look," he said, directing
attention towards the coffin, with its immovable
figure, " she does not stir ; there is no change, no
motion. Oh, man, do ye not know that if life were in
her, the slightest whisper of the voices of her friends
would call her back to consciousness ? No, no  it is His
will ; she cannot return to us. Can we even wish it ? "

I know what you think, but you are too kind to
say it. You think that the hurried travel, and the
shock of this, has excited me,  that I am half crazed
for the moment. Wait and see. Do none of you
stir; trust me for only a few minutes of time."

All were so touched by the unwonted pathos of his
tone as he besought their forbearance, that Armature,
speaking for all present, said, " We all trust you,
Uncle Alick, and we will do whatever you wish."

In thus replying, Duke imagined that an interval of
silence would enable his uncle to recover from the
shock, and with this impression he turned away,
making a sign to the others to leave the Viscount
awhile with the dead. They retired in a group to the
farther end of the room.

A fire was burning in the outer room, and the heat
from the kindled turf and coal penetrated to the
threshold of the death chamber. It was the work
of a moment for Lord Hieover to stride forward, seize
the poker, and thrust it deep into the white glow of
the fuel. Utterly ignorant of what his uncle intended
by this movement, Marmaduke stepped forward, and
almost laid a detaining grasp on his arm.

Do not imagine that I am going to do myself an
injury," said Lord Hieover, interpreting the action ;
be still, and leave me free to act. It is a fearful
trial ; but I feel that I am right  yes, quite justified
in saving life. But don't speak."

The poker had become heated to the utmost intensity
; and then, with a firm careful hand, Lord Hieover

drew it from the fire and blew upon the iron, thus
dispersing any dust or cinder that might have become
attached to it. He then called Mrs Leppell.

Will you lift up the shroud at the feet ? " he said,
"just to the ankles  or one foot will do. Be quick,
for there is not a moment to be lost."

Peggy did so ; and then the Viscount, nearly as pale
as the corpse itself, applied the searing-iron to the
sole of the left foot. A moment  no sign ; again
another application  there was a shiver  a painful
attempt to rise ; and then Willina Clavering drew
up her foot, and uttered an audible moan of pain.

I knew it  I said it," gasped the Viscount. "
Lord ! have mercy upon us ! she has returned from
the grave. Willina "

This was the supreme effort. Lord Hieover fell to
the ground in a deep swoon, at the same moment as
Willina opened her eyes and called feebly upon
Stephen.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE JOY OF THE MORNING.

The return of Miss Clavering to consciousness was,
fortunately, so partial and so fitful, that ample time
was gained in which the outward signs of what had
taken place could be entirely removed and obliterated.

Many hours passed away under the greatest anxiety
on the part of the doctor and the household at 
; and a telegram had been despatched to Dublin
to summon further medical aid. Two days and nights,
however, elapsed before the physicians could assert
that the patient was out of actual danger, or that she
evinced symptoms of recovery which could be regarded
as reliable.

The extraordinary circumstance of the trance was
naturally bruited abroad in all directions ; and unfortunate
Colin filled the post of door-keeper, answering
inquiries almost from morning till night.

The case was reported in a medical journal; and
scientists thereupon set to work to discover some
absolute and infallible test by which the difference

betwixt real death and apparent death should be
discovered.

Francis Clavering studied the cases recorded of the
times of Hippocrates, Galen, Democritus, Pliny, and
other ancients of authority. Turning to modern
times, he found it declared that not even putrefaction
is entirely a test for decision upon this point ; and he
discovered, in a work entitled ' Mort ruelle et Mort
apparente,' published at Paris in 1858, how very conflicting
and unsatisfactory scientific opinion has in all
ages been on this mysterious phenomenon of nature
which we call trance.

Perhaps the gravest necessity for further knowledge
of the subject is to ascertain how much or how little
is a patient who has once suffered actual trance liable
to be afflicted by a return of the disaster  for disaster
it must be called, involving, as trance does, the risk
of living interment. Miss Clavering, through the
energy and perspicacity of Lord Hieover, had escaped
the latter catastrophe ; and it was at the time incumbent
upon those around her to abandon abstruse
theories, and devote all their attention to bringing
the patient to health, both of mind and body.

And the great healer Time was merciful and propitious
also. Willina recovered completely ; and, partly
to escape the comment and observation of which she
was necessarily the object, more or less, she went
abroad, making her resting-place under the roof of
the gentle sisterhood wherein she had received the
latter part of her education, together with the training

which had so marvellously carried her through the
trials of her early life.

Mr Glascott recovered from the illness, which had
been in a great measure induced by his distress of
mind at the time of the death of Stephen La
Touche.

Thus two years passed away ; and one fine afternoon
in June Miss Clavering found herself walking on the
green turf at Tring, guiding the steps of her brother's
youngest boy, and trying at the same time to make
her companion, Lord Hieover, acknowledge that the
small party," as it was called, was a pretty intelligent
child.

Yes, if you say so," returned he, with true masculine
contempt of infants (not his own). " Very lovely ;
only mind, I never can see the least difference in any
of 'em : to me they are all very much alike at that
age. Of course I prefer the ones that don't squall."

They chatted with the freedom of old friendship,
for Willina had long known how deeply she was
indebted to Lord Hieover.

It had been decreed soon after Miss Clavering's
illness that she should be kept in complete ignorance
of what had befallen her. Wiser counsel, however,
eventually prevailed, and that counsel emanated
from no less a person than Mrs Canon Braintree.

Do nothing of the kind," that lady urged on Mrs
Clavering, as the ladies discussed the matter; "no
good ever comes of half-truths and 'blushing up,'
and the like. When she is quite well, tell your

sister the whole truth. You will wrong her if you do
not; and the chances would remain, that she might
eventually hear this history by some accident, and ina
very distorted way."

Then Mrs Braintree communicated an instance
within her own knowledge, wherein a young girl lost
her reason on being suddenly informed by a stranger
that her birth was illegitimate,  that her parents
never were married. The silence and extreme agitation
of the mother when her daughter pressed the
question confirmed the stranger's taunt, and in a
week after that the girl died insane.

The Claverings thought much over this advice, and
they also took the Leppells into consultation. The
result was, that Mrs Braintree's counsel was held good,
and finally adopted : thus Willina was made aware
that she owed her preservation to Viscount Hieover.

She was grateful that her friends had been so advised
; and it was from Belgium that she wrote in a
frank graceful way, offering her thanks to Lord
Hieover, and acquainting him of her placid life, which
was bringing a return of happiness. He would, she
said, always be joined in her mind with the memory
of Stephen La Touche ; and so from that time letters
had been occasionally interchanged between them.

And now they are walking together, and the infant
has suddenly acquired a vast importance in its grand -
uncle's sight. " It " has turned into a most unexceptionable
"gooseberry," and its relative will make
use of it in that capacity.

VOL. III. T

He rolls it on the grass, and then suddenly turning
to Willina, he opens his heart, and, in a few strong
tender words, acquaints her with the hope which
animates his life.

It is asking much of you, I know, to hope even
that you will spare a few years of your life to me 
the time cannot be much longer. I have a strong conviction
that I am not one of those destined to reach
the extremity of age. Still, I beg of you, Willina, and
that with all love and reverence, to become my wife.
I have admired and loved you for many years,  let
me reap some reward at last."

You have always been generous, very generous tome,"
she answered ; " but I, in common honour and
truth, must not conceal from you that the best part
of my heart is buried in the grave of Stephen La
Touche. Still, if gratitude and some affection will
satisfy you "

The Viscount caught at the last words. "Affection
! " he exclaimed ; " can I be assured that you entertain
one single spark of affection for me ? if you
really mean this, I am rewarded beyond my utmost
hope."

I will not retract," she replied, a charming smile
at the same time irradiating her face. " You, who
know so thoroughly the circumstances of my life, will
understand in what sense to apply the word. Unconsciously
to myself, perhaps, I have for some time
past turned to you for sympathy and support ; you
befriended me in the matter of my engagement with

Mr La Touche when every one was against me. I
have never forgotten that, and I have always been
grateful to you."

"Let the remembrance of what you have gone
through lie amongst the things of the past, Willina.
I had my own share of suffering when I witnessed
your deep sorrow and  I must say it  the injustice
you at one time met with. I fancied now and then
that I possessed your confidence ; and where confidence
is honestly placed, I think it must in time form
the groundwork of solid affection. Do not mention
Gratitude ; the mere utterance of the word sounds an
unworthy demand upon your friendship."

I owe my life to you," she replied ; " had it not
been for your courage  your discerning sense  God
knows what horrors might have been my portion : I
shudder when I think of it."

Well, then, only say one little word : say Yes,
Willina dear, and thus let me know that I have won
a good and honoured wife."

She held out her hand, and the gold of her rich
brown eyes gleamed, like the fair sunshine that brings
a blessing with it, upon his face. " Yes," she said, in a
brave clear tone ; and after the pause of a moment,
she added, " until death do us part."

This was all that was then said between these betrothed;
for immediately afterwards there fell upon
them that long deep silence in which all the eloquence
and pathos of language is absorbed in the unutterable
workings of the soul  a silence in which the magnetic

chord of sympathy renders all things clear to the
sense without need of sign or sound.

The subsequent announcement of the engagement
between Lord Hieover and Miss Clavering caused an
unusual amount of " chatterboxation " amongst the
female members of society, and most unmitigated
surprise amongst the denizens of the clubs. The
Viscount had been so long regarded as a non-marrying
man, that for years past he had been set down by
all his acquaintances as a confirmed bachelor ; and as
his accession to the title had caused little variation in
his manner of living, society at large had most culpably
neglected to look after his affairs. Jo wonder, then,
that the news was at first received with universal incredulity,
and in some quarters (and this obtained
mostly amongst those who claimed to know best)
with flat contradiction.

Marmaduke Leppell became furious at the slightest
hint of the matter, and appeared to be seriously ill-used
if any one ventured to think that such a proceeding
was compatible with his uncle's sanity. At the
same time, he was magnanimous enough to add that
if any woman were to oust him, he would rather it
were Willina Clavering than any other in the world.
She had been awfully kind to Peggy when the twins
died," he declared, " and all through she was a trump."

Major Office of the Sydere Club was terribly outraged,
and buttonholed various members of that institution
with more than his wonted vigour, seeking
information on the subject and finding none.

It required some amount of dexterity on the part
of the still entrapped to get beyond the Major's reach.

It was very hard upon him'' this military gossip
and universal bore complained,  " very hard that this
intelligence should have first reached the ' Sydere '
through the medium of the press. Why, Hieover had
been sitting in that room not a week ago, and he had
not dropped a hint on the subject. Very extraordinary
conduct on the part of a member of the
club 1  very extraordinary ! Don't you agree with
me, Mr Bury ? "

Thus challenged, Mr Bury, who knew, as everyone
else did, that Lord Hieover detested Major Office,
and gave him a wide berth on every occasion,
had nothing for it but to hear the old gentleman's
grievances, carefully avoiding, at the same time, to
come within reach of his tentacles.

"Your friend has really treated you shamefully,"
he exclaimed, after listening with the most exemplary
patience to all kinds of wild surmises. " You know
that it is just like the Hovers : they marry as it
pleases themselves, and never confide their affairs to
other people, unless it suits their pleasure to do so.
They don't care what any one thinks of them, or of
their ways. Just like them  a wild lot."

A few weeks afterwards a quiet wedding took place
in a London church, at which Willina Clavering,
spinster, became the wife of Alexander, Viscount
Hieover, bachelor. Mr Glascott gave the bride away ;

but his spouse was not present, she having found it
convenient just then to pay a visit to her old home
in Yarneshire, the plea of the increasing infirmity of
her father serving as an excuse for her absence on
this occasion.

Mary Clavering did the honours of the cUjeuner a la
fourchette, which took place immediately on the conclusion
of the ceremony ; and if the feelings of the
majority there present could have been accurately
tested, the result would have shown that the absence
of Mrs Lillian was more a cause of congratulation
than the reverse.

Willina had no reason to regard Mrs Glascott in
any other light than that of a cold undercurrent of
discord too deep to be discovered, and too sinuous to
be arrested. j\Irs Clavering, on her part, had begun
to find out that Lillian's influence over both her
husband and son was the reverse of satisfactory. In
fact, on the last visit the Glascotts had made to
Tring, Mary had so vigorously resented an interference
with young Frank, in which Mrs Glascott had
entirely ignored the maternal rights of her hostess,
that the latter had been provoked to intimate
that Mrs Lillian had outstayed her welcome, and
bade her confine her attention to her own affairs. The
consequence of this was, that Mr Clavering thought
proper to be extremely angry ; reproached his wife
for thus insulting her early friend, and, in fact, supported
Mrs Glascott most thoroughly in the whole
business, speaking of that lady as the guest whom

he most delighted to honour, and whom it was a great
breach of hospitality to offend. So it was not to be
wondered at that Mrs Clavering expressed no regret
at the absence of Mr Glascott's wife on Willina's
wedding-day.

As there was to be no after-entertainment, this dejeuner
was remarkably handsome in its appointments,
and several guests were present at it in addition to
those who had attended the ceremony in church.
There was less mutual admiration poured forth at
this feast than is usual at eight-tenths of the marriage-feasts
of the present time. Alexander, Lord Hieover,
looked remarkably well, and in returning thanks to
those present for the honour they had done to his
wife and to himself in drinking their healths, he
delivered a short and so apposite a speech, that it
may well be recorded for the edification of those
whom circumstances rather than inclination have
compelled to marry late in life.

I need not remind you," said the Viscount, " that,
according to natural precedent, I ought to have
figured as a bridegroom many years ago ; but in some
destinies, that which comes late, however short the
time of its duration may be, is far brighter than that
which we leave behind in youth.

Lady Hieover and I have climbed the hill of life,
she by some experiences which lengthen years, and
I in the ordinary course of time ; but we have met on
the summit in the genial sunshine of a glorious
autumn day. We have elected to descend this hill

hand in hand ; and as we near its base, even when
death shall have come to take the one and leave the
other, we hope to look back kindly and reverently on
the past, and sing with that cheery poet, who writes
as he rides, straight and fair 

' We are growing old,  oh, the mom was bright,
And rich was the noontide ray ;
But the sunset hour, with its fading light.
Is the sweet of the summer day'"

There was a moment's silence, and then followed
much applause at the conclusion of the Viscount's
speech.

Only fancy. Uncle Alick reading poetry, remembering
it, and then quoting it correctly afterwards ! "
quoth Marmaduke Leppell to his neighbour. " I, for
one, should never have believed him capable of doing
anything of the kind."

Woman's influence, you know," replied one, who
had marked how much more softened Marmaduke
himself had become of late years. "Allowing for
fine speeches, there is nothing after all like a goodwife."


Agreed," answered Duke readily. " Had it not been
for my own wife, I should have this day been weltering
in envy, hatred, and all uncharitableness at home,
instead of being very jolly here."

You were against the match at first, I heard," returned
the friend. " Nobody wondered at that, as you
are the next heir,  it was quite natural."

True ; I certainly did not like it at first, but it is

quite as well. Peggy wouldn't do for rank, and,
thank goodness, she don't care for it. If we had a son,
it would be different,  duty, you know, and the kid's
interests, and all that. As it is, the present lady is
the right person in all ways for the position. She has
been awfully nice about the whole matter, and always
so kind to Peggy and to me ; and she manages old
Alick splendidly. Mark my words, the golden age is
setting in for all the Hovers."

That's a mercy," declared the friend.

Yes ; you can't change the spots on the leopard, but
old age tones 'em down. Uncle Alick will fight for a
sixpence to the end of his life ; but he will give away
pounds now he has got her ladyship to put the proper
thing into his head."

So opining, Duke tossed off a second glass of champagne
to the health of the pair, and inclined his head
specially towards the bride.

Lady Hieover, before starting, found time to say a
word to Peggy.

Mind you remain at Hieover as long as we are
away," she enjoined ; " the whole of the garden is to
be altered, a new conservatory built, besides numerous
cleaning and paintings. I want you to superintend
the flower department, and assist the gardener in the
purchase of plants. Your husband has got some
written instructions from his uncle, so, you see, we intend
you both to represent us in all things."

Peggy was charmed, and vowed she would have the
place a real nice spot before the honeymoon was over ;

and now she asked if Willina could remember anything
else that she wanted done.

The bride mentioned two or three trifling items, and
it struck Peggy that she was talking very fast now.
So she was ; but tears were in her voice as she added
in a low tone, and with something of a sigh, " Get
plenty of stephanotis  for the conservatory  it is
my best-loved flower : now, good-bye."

They went first of all to Paris, and from thence
they travelled in a small radius, enjoying the true
country life of the French people, which is far more
happy, and very much more innocent, than it is often
allowed to be.

Whilst travellers declaim against the vice of Paris
and other large cities of France, they are often quite
oblivious of the fact that the sinners who abound in
that capital consist for the most part of a mixture of
rich Russians, rich English, and rich Americans, supplemented
by a substratum of poverty and chevaliers
industria from all parts of the universe.

Nowhere is rural life more pleasant or more interesting
than in the interior of the French provinces.
The sunny clime, the outdoor existence, and the
naturally joyous disposition of the Gallic race, all tend
to ameliorate the burden of everyday toil, and to avert
those disappointments which turn the heart to gall,
and often goad a generous spirit into the conviction
that its own lot is an exceptionally sad one, and thus
harden it into bitterness and evil thoughts.

The decent economies of life, and the aptitude for

making provision for his offspring, is a salient feature
in the character of the Frenchman, and the women
of all classes and of all lands could not do better than
take lessons here in the manipulation of culinary
matters, in which the Frenchwomen of every grade are
usually so expert. Many, many pounds in the house
accounts would be annually saved, and, in the majority
of cases, a better table would be thereby provided.

It was among the simple Breton folk especially that
Lord Hieover and his wife derived the greatest enjoyment.


They made their excursions in a homely, unostentatious
manner, and thus furnished themselves with
every opportunity to gain a correct knowledge of this
most interesting people.

Their tour was so enjoyable that it was extended to
the beautiful country watered by the broad Garonne ;
and it followed as a matter which admitted of no dispute,
that it would be a sin to be so near the Pyrenees
and the Cantabrican Sierra and not visit them. No
one in their senses can turn back from the mountains.

Ah, no ! the grand noble mountains which look upwards
boldly into the face of heaven, and draw
the wayfarer of earth into their wealth of free air,
and into all that is glorious in colour upon fleeting
cloud or pearly mist, or giant tree or tender herb.
Nothing is too lovely or too grand for them : they hold
the magic spell of weaning the spirit from the cares of
life. And when those cares and sorrows  the abomination
of desolation of many a heart  press too heavily

upon us, do we not, in the same spirit almost as guided
the Israelites of old, rise up and amid the mountains
seek our rest ?

Stupendous as the sea, without its phases of terror
and treacherous calm, they impart a sense of mighty
aid; and even when rash mortals seek to penetrate
their forbidden mysteries, even then the death which
these may have courted seems to be sanctified by the
snowy veil which hushed all, and by the crystal ice
which spreads its shield to protect the remains of poor
humanity from outrage and decay.

We instinctively love the mountains,  it may be
because of all created things they stand nearest to the
heavens ; and on the Great Day is it not upon them
that we are to call?  the last of earthly things to
which we, poor sinners, shall make our appeal for
help !

Every week added health and quiet happiness to
the wedded pair. Alick did sometimes fight vigorously
for a sixpence, as his nephew had predicted ; and his
wrangling over the bills, made out in the French
language and currency  of both of which he was
supremely ignorant  caused as much amusement to
his wife as they caused astonishment to the gardens
who presented these claims for disbursement.

However, his disputations usually ended with the
threat customary among Britons, of writing to the
Times ' ; and further, by emphasising this terror with
the truly British contempt of idiom.

Marquez mes mots ! " he would say,  " mar-r-key

les bien ; le bill est un swindle, mais je writers a le
Times,'  Gazette English, vous savez, journal trs
important ; circule dans tout le monde : mauvais pour
vous, etre expose dans le ' Times '  comprenez ? "

The gardens seldom did comprenez, and very often
also did not choose to comprenez; and as these demands
were usually settled in the end by Lady Hie-over,
who invariably made up the difference in those
trafficking in which the Viscount had shown himself
unreasonable or mistaken, their comfort was never
marred by unsatisfied landlords or disobliging waiters.
As time went on. Lord Hieover discovered that to
speak the language of a nation was, in fact, to hold
the purse, and at length all expenses were paid by
Willina, to the saving of much talk and tissue on the
part of the Viscount.

The sun went round, and the world went round,
and at the end of twelve months the ' Times ' did
make an announcement to the public, owing to a
communication which bore the sign-manual of Alexander,
Viscount Hieover. It was to this effect : " December
26.  At Hieover Grange, the wife of Viscount
Hieover of a son and heir."

Mary Clavering wrote immediately to congratulate
the parents upon this event, and she warmly expressed
the hope that this infant would grow up a kind and
affectionate child.

I would give much," this poor mother added, " if
J. could tell you that my Frank entertains even common
regard for me. His nature is very peculiar, and

he repels, and even resents, any advances I may
make to win his love, or even to assist him in his
education. Yet he is devoted to his father, and Mrs
Glascott has the most unbounded influence over him.

I dread her coming here now, for she seems to
widen the gulf which, in spite of all my efforts and
my constant prayers, seems to yawn daily betwixt my
boy and me. It is a dreadful position, yet I can say
nothing, and do nothing ; my husband believes there
is no woman in the world like Lillian.

/ have lost all faith in her ; and, O Willina ! she is
getting more like my dearest mother in personal appearance
than ever  only the latter had a soft warm
heart, thank God! Mr Glascott, however, is thoroughly
contented and happy, and would perhaps be
surprised if any one were to hint that his wife is cold
and selfish. Perhaps I am wrong ; but I am haunted
by a continual fear that Lillian will, in the end, prove
a great bane to Francis, my son.

You will smile at this, and perhaps wonder if my
brain is turning. I am not well, and feel that a sea
change would be beneficial to the children and myself.
I say nothing of this, as I don't want to be urged to
00 to Brvdone. The Glascotts come next month, and
your brother has insisted upon a long visit, which I
wish I could approve of with sincerity. Baby is welland
she is my greatest comfort," &c., &c.

Lady Hieover read and re-read the whole of this
melancholy letter, and, finally, she showed it to her
husband.

They had both agreed that they disliked Mrs Lillian,
and they had unreservedly expressed their opinion
the one to the other that Mrs Glascott had been the
motive power in causing so much persistent opposition
on the part of her husband to Willina's engagement
with Stephen La Touche.

But they had never said much respecting the intimacy
between Francis Clavering and Mrs Glascott,
each hoping that it was merely the innocent outcome
of early friendship. The precise and guarded manner
of the lady left nothing to be suspected as to her
conduct, and Mr Clavering (with one unfortunate
exception) had ever been very particular in his manner
towards his neighbour's wife.

Still, with all this, the Viscount had more than once
been tempted to express some wonder at the influence
which Mrs Glascott seemed to exert over the household
of Mr and Mrs Clavering of Tring. Her opinion
seemed to operate on the choice of nurses, physicians,
books, and had even been brought to bear on the regulation
of the expenses of that family. It was only the
remembrance of the fact that Mr Clavering was his
wife's brother which had kept Lord Hieover silent;
but now the opportunity had come, and he spoke
plainly and to the point.

I don't like the look of this," he said, as he put
down the letter. " Mary is evidently very unhappy,
and there is more than she cares to write beneath the
surface. Why does she not go more into society ?
and why on earth is there such eternal visiting between

Brydone and Tring ? Mischief will come of
all this, as sure as my name is Leppell."

I fear so too," answered Lady Hieover ; " but what
is to be done ?  who can venture to say anything ? 
it is a most delicate matter even to canvass."

*' Yes ; no one but Mary can take an active part. But
if she does not want to have the Glascotts as visitors,
they ought not to be invited. I don't believe she is
ever consulted on the matter ; and, to say the truth,
I am convinced that Clavering is a precious deal too
fond of old Glascott's wife."

I wish I could gainsay you," her ladyship replied ;
but, to be candid, I have held this opinion for a very
long time. I don't think, however, that any one else
has the slightest suspicion of anything of the kind,
and they are both too cautious and too observant of
the world's estimation to cause open scandal. My
dread is, that Mary is or may be apprehensive that
Frank's affections are more Mrs Glascott's than her
own."

Open scandal, you say ; do you mean to imply the
possibility of there being secret scandal, then ? " inquired
the Viscount, with a flaming countenance.

There is no proof of that, Alick," his wife replied,
soothingly. " You know it would be utter madness
to assert even a suspicion, unless it is supported by
some tangible evidence. No ; I myself think that the
pride of both Lillian and my brother is stronger than
their principle  that keeps them straight. The great
danger is, that present immunity, and perhaps Mary's

unsuspicious nature, may eventually prove a false
security, and lead them into actual sin."

It shan't be  it can't be ! " returned the Viscount,
seriously alarmed. " Ralph's beautiful daughter !  see
what she admits herself." He took up the letter and
read out one of its paragraphs  " ' Your brother has
insisted upon a long visit, which I wish 1 could approve
of with sincerity.' Now, what does that mean ?
There must be something wrong to induce Mary to
write like this."

The expression may bear more than one meaning,"
Lady Hieover replied ; " it may refer entirely to the
boy. It must be very galling to a mother to see her
child completely ignore her for another person, even
a nurse ; and I know that young Francis openly declares
that Mrs Glascott is the person that he loves
best in the whole world : it has been so since he was a
baby. Oh, it must be a terrible trial ! "  and Willina,
as she spoke, pressed her own tender infant more
closely to her, and kissed its tiny hands.

I'll write and invite Mary here," returned the
Viscount, as a sudden thought struck him. " We can
ask her to bring her baby to inspect ours,  don't you
think that would be a capital plan ? The Glascotts
have not arrived, and they can be put off, I should
think  at any rate, it is quite natural that we should
like our friends to see this young man here ! " and the
Viscount gave the bundle which contained his son a
gentle tap as he spoke.

The young mother had little time to reply, for Mrs
VOL. III. U

Leppell, who was at Hieover, came into the room with
the express purpose of turning the master of the house
out of that apartment, and of bidding the patient to
at once hold her peace.

Your boy is only seven days old," said she to the
Viscount, "and here I find you chatting with 'our
aunt Willina ' " (it was Peggy's humour always to speak
of Lady Hieover as " our aunt ") " like two old gossips
over a cup of tea with something comfortable inside
that. Do have a care, like dear people ; you know it
is not always safe to be too well at first."

I must confess to being a little tired," said Willina,
smiling ; " but my husband could not resist the
pleasure of bringing me dear Mary Clavering's letter
of congratulation. It is the first letter I have had, as
baby's advent was announced and responded to by
telegram."

I see ; but do take care, I implore you, and don't
exert yourself too much at first: the nurse is quite
uneasy. Why, when I had the twins, it was days
before I could speak above my breath; I could not
move nor lift my hand to my head."

This was strictly true ; but, poor soul ! she never
knew that her trial had been exceptionally severe, 
that her state had been such that it might be likened
to holding water in the hollow of a hand. Had the
liquid overflowed its limits, her own feeble rill of life
would have also run out to nothingness.

But she was aware that it was improbable she
would ever bring forth a living child, and it was this

knowledge which caused her to watch this new motherhood
so carefully, not only for the present but for the
future's sake.

Now, you have got to depart, and at once," continued
Peggy, facing the Viscount. " I think you had
better take Marmaduke off the premises ; he is wild
to try some skating on the Irene ponds over there."

As the baby ruled the house just then, his father
had nothing to do but obey orders, and that with a
submission that was lamb-like.

Peggy bent over mother and child. " Have you
decided what its name is to be ? " she asked, pointing
to the little man.

He was born on St Stephen's day," Lady Hieover
replied, " and his father says he does not see why we
should sacrifice to family traditions about names  so
he is to be called Stephen. Is he not a crown of
happiness to us both ? "

Willina smiled joyfully, and Mrs Leppell watched
over mother and infant long after they had fallen
asleep.

CHAPTER Xii.

AN OLD man's Revenge.

It has been shown by the letter which Mrs Clavering
had addressed to Lady Hieover that the writer entertained
great repugnance to visit at Brydone. The
force of circumstances, however, compelled her to
accept an invitation to do so. This was made verbally
by Mrs Glascott in the presence of Francis and of
her husband.

This invitation included the infants, to whom a
nursery was to be specially dedicated; and as Mr
Clavering expressed himself willing to give up an
engagement for the purpose of escorting his family,
Mary found herself unable to oppose any valid reason
for declining the Brydone hospitality.

It will be seen from this that the Glascotts had
already paid their visit to Tring, and that Mrs Clavering
had not been able to comply with her uncle's
proposition that she should bring her youngest infant
to make the acquaintance of his own son and heir.

Francis Clavering had pressed his wife to accept this

invitation to Brydone with more deference to her
wishes than he was usually wont to show ; and as the
Glascotts were to leave a few days in advance in order
to prepare for their reception, Mary was satisfied that
the escort of her husband would be really an advantage
to herself and family. The youngest infant, too,
required sea-air, and, all things considered, she thought
it best to accept the situation graciously, and go to
Hieover at a more convenient season.

But it was with amazement, and great pain also,
that she witnessed the frantic delight of the boy when
he was told that Mrs Glascott had proposed to take
him to Brydone with herself and her husband in
advance of the rest.

Why can't papa come too ? " the lad said ; " and
you, Lillian, leave Mr Glascott to follow us with
mamma and the babies : it will be far nicer for us
now, wouldn't it ? "

Young Frank had got into the habit of calling Mrs
Glascott by her Christian name, and the latter had
avowed that she preferred that he should do so.

He was a queer, weird child,  impulsive and capricious,
as was his maternal grandfather, but utterly
wanting in that emotional feeling which is generally
called goodness of heart, and which atoned for a
multitude of sins on the part of the Colonel, nevertheless.
At one time wild and totally unreasonable ; at
another reticent, calculating, and displaying a prescience
that would have been remarkable in a statesman,
 it was indeed difficult how to reckon and how

to answer for what he might do or say, in any manner
whatsoever.

It was now the prompting of his strong will which
impelled him to tease his father for a promise that he
would go with him and Lillian, and leave Mr Glascott
to follow to Brydone with his mother.

The latter had more than once observed how much
the lad was inclined to look upon his father, Mrs
Glascott, and himself as a trio,  caring for none
other, and dependent upon none other ; and she now
tried to still the workings of jealousy in her soul
owing to her boy's random speech, by telling herself
that her husband and Lillian had made him
their inseparable companion during his last visit to
Brydone.

Again he demands why his father should not go
with him to Jersey, emphasising his interrogation by
saying that he was sure he would like it better than
travelling with a nursery. " Do come with us, papa,"
he urged ; " I say, come with us." In vain have both
Mr Clavering and Lillian attempted to assume unnatural
deafness ; and in order to put an end to the
boy's clamouring, Francis at length called out, " Hold
your tongue, sir ! " and, dragging him from off his
chair, bundled him into the hall, with a sound box
on the ear.

Mary remained quite still during this outburst ; she
was in fact puzzled whether to hail it as a good signor
the reverse. Generally speaking, her husband had
treated the boy's impertinences towards herself with

contempt, or with the assertion that all lads at that
age were pretty much alike, and that she must not
expect her son to be wiser than his fellows, &c.

More often he would add the galling remark, that
Mrs Glascott could manage young Francis  he never
misbehaved himself towards her ; and thus poor Mary
was silenced.

But now a strange conviction arose within her that
both her husband and Mrs Glascott were not only annoyed
at the boy's speech, but that they were both
apprehensive lest the child's impetuosity might lead
him on to say something which it might not be quite
prudent to utter in her presence. She saw clearly
that the manner of little Frank's observations caused
them some surprise; hence the alacrity with which
Mr Clavering rose to quench further remarks.

Presently Mrs Glascott left the room, under the plea
of searching for her husband, but her real object was
evidently to seek out the boy. Through the open
window Mary saw her stand beneath a deodara and
beckon, and presently Frank came bounding towards
her. Lillian, for once, forgot her usual caution. Drawing
him by the arm on to the gravel path upon which
the window opened, she said quite audibly: "Never
mind, old man, never mind. Papa was put out ; but
you must never speak in such a manner again,  it will
make mamma quite jealous."

Frank seemed to reply rather sulkily; but his
mother could only catch a few words here and there.
The tenor of these was distressing enough, if put

together ; but Mrs Clavering determined now to take
her own course and watch  yes, watch. She must
know of whom it was requisite she should not be
jealous  whether of father or of son.

Xo more transpired, and the journey to Brydone
was carried out after the original plan without further
remark from any of the parties concerned.

They had been there about a fortnight, when it
struck Mary that all was not right with Mr Glascott.
He had become thinner, and a peculiar pallid shade
would suddenly pass over his face, while a nervous
tremor, which he could not command, at the same
time agitated his whole person.

Lillian was not unobservant : she treated her husband
with unflinching care, admitted that his heart
was affected, and with the most unruffled placidity
avowed that a man at his time of life must expect to
suffer in some way. Yet, in spite of her attention,
and her punctual observance of all that might conduce
to Mr Glascott's relief, Mary, in the affectionate
warmth of her own nature, thought that Lillian was
not kind, that she was wanting in tenderness, and was
utterly unsympathetic towards the man to whom she
owed so much.

Lillian never put off a visit or ride on his account ;
but at the same time she never omitted to be ready
to accompany him in his daily drive, or to walk up
and down in his company on the broad walk of the
new garden, which she had planned and carried out
among other improvements at Brydone.

Then came a day when the old gentleman, with a
gush of tears, seized Mary's hand, and told her that he
was most unhappy,  so unhappy that he looked for
death as a relief ; but she must not, he implored, say
a word of this to Lillian, nor yet to Mr Clavering.
She must wait a little, and then he would tell her
more.

That time came very quickly. One afternoon Mary,
who was strolling in the garden with her babies and
their nurse, saw Mr Glascott beckoning to her from
the window of a greenhouse. Thinking that he
wanted her opinion upon some changes which were
about to be made, she desired that the children should
extend their walk, and she would come and meet
them. Then, seeing them fairly started, she went
to the greenhouse where her host awaited her.

Mary, dear child," he said, in that equable heartbroken
tone which is so much more distressing to a
hearer than agitated or even violent speech,  "after
much reflection I have convinced myself that, in
common honesty, I must inform you that this is no
place for you ; nay, more, you must leave it with
your children this night."

Mrs Clavering gasped; she was so affrighted that
no word escaped her. She looked inquiringly at Mr
Glascott as if to hear more ; but not for one moment
did she doubt either his sanity or his veracity. Poor
soul ! she half suspected what was to come next.

You must leave this evening," he said, " and go to
the hotel at St Aubyns. Here is money  use it ; it is

your right. But go  and go at once to your father's
house when you have crossed the sea."

But why ? " she inquired at length. " I cannot
leave my husband unless I have proof that I ought
to do so."

His reply was to hand her a letter. It was one
written by Francis to Mrs Glascott some few weeks
before this time, and dated from a London club.

This missive informed her that he was to be despatched
in a few weeks' time on a geological survey
in Styria ; that he would visit Brydone once more ;
and that, to save appearances, he would ask her to receive
his wife and children at the same time. The
writer then declared that she, like himself, must be
wellnigh spent with this weary waiting. At the end
of a certain time a yacht would come round behind
the rocks at Brydone, and together they must fly.
Did she not consent to this, he would never put his
foot in Brydone more. The letter concluded in a most
passionate strain, and was fully signed and dated.

This is awful," said poor Mary ; " but still, this is
not conclusive proof  there may be some change. Oh,
think ; it cannot be possible that they will commit
this wickedness."

His reply was to take her hand and lead her out
beyond the garden, and upwards towards the cliff by
a narrow winding path. She remarked how feebly he
walked, and how every step seemed to distress his
breathing powers, and how he occasionally stopped,
and laid his hand on his heart.

"Look there," he said, "just beyond that cliff  do
not you see a yacht riding at anchor ? She is well
concealed, but I have watched for her, and it is only
within the last hour that she has appeared in sight."

Alack and alas ! it was all true then.

They descended towards the shore. In a secluded
cove stood the boat-house,  a man suddenly appeared
from between two rocks in the vicinity.

"They are within," said the man to Mr Glascott,
and my mate is watching from the upper cliff. Return
to the house, sir ; you may be seen, and that will
spoil all my work. It will do the lady no good to
look into the boat-house ; they are only waiting for
the tide to rise, and they will be off."

"My God! my God!" ejaculated Mary; "what are
you going to do ? "

This place is watched by my detectives : when the
boat comes to take the  the persons in the boat-house
to the ship, then I will step forward and bid them
God speed ! ' I have just time to send you into St
Aubyns ; the carriage has already been ordered, as if
to take you and the children for a drive. Depend on
me ; I will send to you to-night."

A man dressed as a fisherman lounged leisurely
in front of the boat-house. He then seated himself on
a piece of rock, and turned over some fish which was ina
creel. This was a noted London detective.

The man who had accosted them first entreated Mr
Glascott to hurry away. " As soon as the boat puts
off from the yacht, I will come for you," he said.

They turned towards the house. Then all Mary's
wifehood and motherhood rushed upon her in full
sway. " Oh ! let me, let me, I beseech you, go in and
save them," she implored of Mr Glascott ; " we are
only abetting them in their guilt. Oh, let us go together,
and appeal to their better feelings,  let us go
together,  and forgive "

Too late ! " said Mr Glascott, looking at her
steadily. " Mary, your mother disappointed me, and
deceived me. I forgave. For the love of your mother,
I gave Francis to you. For the love of your mother,
I married the woman who has so basely deceived me.
There must be an end to like forbearance, and the
end is nearly come."

You will do them no hurt," she said, appealingly.

Good forbid ! I will but fling this letter in his
face, and bid him take her  trusting to God that
they will get their punishment in this world. One
thing, Mary  promise me solemnly that you will
never divorce your husband."

Never ! " and she spoke with all her heart ;
'' never shall he marry Lillian. Lillian ! my early
friend, now my worst enemy. Oh, it is hard to think
of you and all that you have done ! "

The carriage was in waiting at the great gate of
the stables, and Mr Glascott hurried Mary, now
scarcely sensible, into it. The nurse and young children
were already placed within, and out at sea
a boat had come off from the yacht without the
boundary rocks.

Mr Glascott pressed her hand. " Say nothing to
your servant," he said, " but go for your drive, and
get down at the hotel. By the time you arrive there,
a messenger will meet you."

How she kept her senses she never knew ; but the
nurse marked her wan scared face, and instinctively
guessed that something was wrong  something secret
and unusual.

Where is my boy ?  where is Frank ? " the
mother at length demanded quickly.

Nobody knew ; he had not, it was said, been seen
for hours.

'Presently Mrs Clavering observed that a strange
servant was seated on the coach box. When they
alighted at the hotel, she asked this man if he had
seen her son.

The man at first hesitated, and then acknowledged
that he had seen the lad in the boat-house, talking to
Mrs Glascott, an hour ago.

Then she knew that the speaker was a detective,
and understood the reason why she had been told
that it would do her no good to look into the boathouse.


Shortly afterwards, the man who had been dressed
as a fisherman called at the hotel, and held a lomb
conference with his mate. He brought awful tidings.

The boat, he said, containing Clavering and his
son and Mrs Glascott had barely moved from off
shore, when, at a preconceived signal, the detectives
rushed upon them, and effectually prevented them

from moving a foot farther into the water. Mr
Glascott was in advance, and dashed a letter full in
Mr Clavering's face. He turned to his wife, struggling
to speak to her, but the effort was too great. One
word he called out, ' Adelaide ! ' and then, with a sob
that was awful to hear, he fell prone to the earth 
stone dead !
- " A foe's gift is no gift, and brings no profit."

