CHAPTER I.

A BIRTHDAY GIFT.

A September morning in the West of
England, dew sparkling on mossy lawns, a
few yellow leaves scattered on the garden

/ CD

walks, beneath the sycamores and beeches,
scarlet geraniums glowing in the sunshine,
robins singing everywhere  and over alla
sky of cloudless blue, an atmosphere
calm and crystal clear. A grey stone,

VOL. I. B

squarely-built house of the last century
stood in the old garden, and at one of the
tall sash windows which opened down to
the ground, and which now was thrown upas
high as it would go, letting the sunshine
and the fresh morning air fill the house 
at one of these windows, there presently
appeared a lady.

She was taller than the average of
women, her figure was slight and peculiarly
flexible ; it had never known the bondage
of steel and whalebone, but had grown
aoile and healthful as nature had intended
it to be. She had wavy brown hair, skin
of the clear softness seen to perfection
only in the moist west country  a long,
straight nose with finely chiselled nostrils,
a small, firm, somewhat haughty mouth.
Her dark grey eyes were singularly frank
and guileless; no glance of coquetry had

ever shot from their sweet, thoughtful
depths, the had the fearless, straightforward
look one may see iu the eyes of a
pure-minded boy. To come down to more
prosaic details  she wore a gown of cream-coloured
cashmere made with the simplicity
and the perfect fit of a Frenchwoman's,
round her neck was a kerchief of India
muslin and old lace, and a necklace of old-fashioned
red coral beads.

She  Cecilia Tremayne  stood by the
open window, and threw crumbs of bread
with lavish hands to the crowds of
sparrows, intermixed with a few graceful
chaffinches, with slate-blue heads and
salmon-coloured breasts, and timid brown
hedge warblers  which came to her every
morning, summer and winter, for their
breakfast. Presently down darted a robin,
into the midst of the other birds, with

b2

lordly airs scattering the viilojar sparrows
to right and left, and then he hopped into
the room as if it were his own.

Cecilia retreated from the window,
smiling, and the robin followed her to the
breakfast table, where the antique silver
coffee-pot, and a ' dusky loaf which smelt
of home,' and yellow clotted cream, and
little dishes under silver covers awaited
the master of the house. The robin
alighted on the table, and after reoardino
it with his bright black eyes, and his head
very much on one side, he pecked daintily
at some butter which Cecilia offered him
on a plate; then, as the door opened, he
departed by the window with a satisfactory
morsel in his beak.

There came into the room the Reverend
Reginald Tremayne, vicar of the parish of
Morwell, on the border of Dartmoor. He

had a look of the most perfect high breeding,
a tall, spare, upright figure, silver
hair, with a keen delicate, rather pallid
face, like a carving in ivory. His grey
morning suit and coloured necktie were
anything but clerical.

Mr. Tremayne might value his position
as vicar as brinofinof him a little more
dignity and authority than he already
possessed (if that were possible) ; but in his
secret heart he hated his profession and all
its works and ways. He had never married,
and the mistress of his household,
his sole surviving relative, was his niece
Cecilia, the only child of his long deceased
youngest brother Gerald.

Everything about the room had an old-world
stateliness, and seemed to blend into
a harmonious background for the two
dignified human figures in it. A subdued

richness of colouring, claik polisliecl oak
floor, with here and here an Indian rug,
dull red and orange brown in hue; walls
of olive green, as restful to the eye as the
shade of trees ; a gleam of brass from an
antique fender or mirror or candlestick ; a
dark blue Nankin china jar or two filled
with dried rose leaves. On the table, the
breakfast service was ol old blue Worcester
porcelain ; the silver cream-jug was
like a quaint little urn; the salt cellars had
lion's heads and claws, and dated from the
days of George II. The flowers, in
bowls of antique, diamond-cut glass 
flowers which give a touch of poetry to
the prosaic business of eating and drinking
 were roses mingled with maidenhair
ferns.

Mr. Tremayne often said that he could
not live, unless everything about him was

beautiful and dainty ; but he, the most
fastidious of men, was also one of the most
abstemious. He trifled delicately with
this dish and that, and left everything in
his plate almost untouched. It was a
necessity that old and precious wines
should repose in his cool, cobwebbed
cellars, but he did little more than touch the
rim of his wine glass with his dainty lips.

This morning Mr. Tremayne looked at
his niece with a peculiarly sweet smile  a
smile that disclosed a fine set of white
teeth, which he owed to nature alone.

Cecilia, my dear, I have not forgotten
what day this is. But I am not quite
sure  ' then an odd, mirthful, slightly perplexed
glance shot sidelong out of his eyes.
I am not quite sure whether the remembrance
will be altogether welcome to you.
Perhaps the time has now come  as it must

inevitably come to all ladies  when you
would rather your birthday were forgotten


Cecilia looked up with her frank,
straightforward glance, and smiled.

I know quite well that I am thirty
years old to-day, and I should not mind if
the whole world knew it too.'

If you had not such an inveterate
prejudice against compliments, I could
pay you a very pretty one, which is an
honest one, too.'

I suppose you mean, uncle, that I don't
look my age ? May I not return the compliment
? But I think there is a conventional
idea about women's ages, which
comes partly from novels. Most of them
are written for very young people. And
so an unmarried woman is considered
middle-aged at five-and-twenty, elderly at

thirty, and she ought to be dead and
buried at forty.'

Well, you never looked better in your
life than you do now ; I can tell you that,
my dear. But as you are no looser conventionally
young  however young you
may be in reality  I think you may have
one of the privileges of age, and wear
diamonds.'

Mr. Tremayne placed in his niece's
hand a leather case which contained a
brooch and necklace of diamonds in
antique silver setting. Cecilia was as delighted
with her birthday gift as any
young girl could have been ; and her uncle
gracefully acknowledged her thanks and
exclamation of delight with a kiss on her
forehead.

They were your great-grandmother's,
you know,' said the vicar. 'Do you wish

them re-set? They shall be, if you wish

it.'

No indeed, thank you, uncle. Anybody
who has the money can go into a
shop and buy a modern set of diamonds,
but these in their pretty old-fashioned
silver  why, everybody will know when I
wear them that I am fortunate enough to
have a great-grandmother.'

I can always rely on your good taste,'
answered Mr. Tremayne, with a gratified
look. ' Modern jewellery has often a very
bourgeois air.'

Talk of living up to a tea-pot ! It
will be very much harder to live up to
these diamonds,' laughed Cecilia. ' Especially
with the original owner of them up
there, looking down upon me. There are
very few such women now-a-days ;' and
Cecilia glanced at the portrait of her

great-grandmother, which hung over the
mantelpiece.

It was the picture of a fair and graceful
voune: woman, in the costume of the last
century, with a large muslin cap on her
powdered hair, and a muslin kerchief
round her neck. Her dark grey eyes were
very thoughtful, the delicately-moulded
lips were at once proud and tender. The
chief characteristics of the whole face and
figure were refinement and repose.

Pride of ancestry was the weakness of
both uncle and niece ; but whilst it led Mr.
Tremayne to carry his head a little haughtily,
it made Cecilia only depreciate herself.


What a falling off is here !' thought
she, when she compared her face in the
looking-glass with her great-grandmother's
portrait. Still she was conscious that in

order to bring back the calm aud gracious
dignity of that type of face, one must
briuor back also the leisure, the slow
movement, the very dulness of life in the
last century. On Cecilia's own vivid,
mobile face the present day, with all its
keen and varied interests, its swift rush of
events, its development of human knowledge
in ever widening circles  on Cecilia's
face the present day had set its mark.

'I wish I had a portrait of my own
mother,' said Cecilia, suddenly. ' It seems
so strange that I should have no. idea what
she was like. If you could only tell me
something about her '

Cecilia did not look at her uncle as she
spoke. She knew by past experience that
for some undiscovered reason it annoyed
the vicar to hear any mention of her
mother's name.

As I bravo told you before, Cecilia, I
know nothing about your mother.' One
would scarcely have recognised Mr. Tree
voice, so suddenly hard and stern
had it become. ' I never saw her before
your father married her, and they went
out to Ceylon not long afterwards. You
are a true Tremayne, my dear ;' and the
vicar tried to smile, but the fine wrinkles
of vexation were not quite smoothed out
from his forehead. ' Ah ! here are the
letters,' he said  with a sudden look of
relief as if turning away from a distasteful
subject  as the servant entered the room
with letters on a silver salver.

Breakfast being over, Cecilia left the
room, locked up the diamonds in her
jewel-case, and then went oat into the
garden for her usual morning stroll.

Her thoughts returned, as they did

sometimes at long intervals, to the one
mystery of ber life. Why did her uncle
Reginald always seem annoyed if she
spoke of her mother? Why did he invariably
answer Cecilia's inquiries about this
unknown parent of hers in a manner
which stopped further questioning ? The
very obstinacy of the vicar's silence provoked
suspicion that he was not telling
the literal truth when lie said he knew
nothing about her.

But, whatever the mystery was, Reginald
Tremayne alone possessed the clue. Cecilia's
father and mother were dead, and
the secret had died with them. There
was not another member of the Tremayne
family from whom she could seek enlightenment.
Cecilia's earliest recollections were
of Morwell Vicarage, with faint visions
of the blue skies and grey olive-trees of

the South of France, where she had spent
several winters in her early childhood in
company with her grandmother, old Mrs.
Tremayne. She could lust remember the
stately old lady, who had died when she
was six years of age, and all that she had
known of motherly love and tenderness
was associated rather with Mrs. Evesham,
who was her governess and the Vicar of
Marvell's housekeeper. This Mrs. Evesham
was a woman of gentle birth, oE
ideas and opinions in advance of her time,
and of a strong, sweet nature. Cecilia
owed it to her, in great measure, that her
youth was one of almost unclouded happiness
; and in after sears Cecilia realised,
more and more, the influence which Mrs.
Evesham had had over her life.

The morning sunshine, which gardeners
tell us is the most precious of all light for

the ofrowtli and vigour of vegetation, has
its counterpart in human life. Happy
those upon whom the warmth of love and
tenderness has shone in their early years,
who have been sheltered from frost and
blight  from neglect, worry, and causeless
thwarting. They have gained a store of
animal spirits, of hopefulness, of sweet
and wholesome blood in their veins, which
will be a strong antidote to misfortune in
all their later days. No afternoon sun of
prosperity will ever atone for a childhood
full of fear and anxiety, and that * snubbing
' which robs a sensitive nature of all
healthy self-reliance.

For the last ten years Cecilia had been
mistress of her uncle's household. It was
a post which exactly suited her in some
respects. She was a born ruler, she had
that administrative ability with which a

very large number of women are endowed ;
she had a high ideal of what the beauty
and order of every department of household
life should be, and enough practical
capacity to work out her ideal with fair
success. She had common sense, which
is merely the bringing of the reasoning
power to bear upon little things. She
had a passion for justice, and plenty of
imaginative sympathy to enable her to put
herself in the place of others. So it was
that domestic life under her rule at Mor-well
Vicarage went on smoothly and
silently, like oiled machinery. Her uncle
was as fond and as proud of her as if she
were his daughter : her servants adored
her, and left her only when they married.

She often longed for a wider, freer life,
and higher and more vivid interests than
her home in a country vicarage could give

VOL. I. C

her. Still she felfc very happy this morning
as she sauntered round the garden,
'vith the sparrows and chaffinches flying
round her, and the robin watching her
with his bright, black eyes, and sometimes
softly warbling, half-hidden in a laurel-bush.


Cecilia was thirty years old to-day, and
most of the men she knew, would think
she outfit to be either dead or married.
Even her uncle  though he would miss her
every hour of the day, if she left his house
even her uncle had a slight sense of discomfort,
almost of resentment, as at a
slight upon himself, when he reflected that
Cecilia had never had an offer of marriage.
While the village girls, many of whom with
their stout clumsy figures, and red,
weather-beaten faces, looked ten years
older than herself, would shave called Miss

Tremayne an old maid, if they had known
the date of her birth.

But Cecilia went down the garden
walks smiling to herself, with the birds
about her, and her small white hands full
of flowers  creamy Gloire-de-Dijon roses,
perfumed mignonette, and fuchsia with
little crimson bells and bronze green
leaves, which grows like a tree in the west
country. She enjoyed life that sunny
morning, though she was thirty years old
enjoyed it a great deal too much to wish
for either death or marriage.

There is a beautiful old legend which
Ouida tells ' how in the days of King Clovis,
a woman, old and miserable and forsaken
of all, strayed into the Merovingian woods,
and lingering there, and hearkening to
the birds, and loving them, and so learning
from them of God, regained her youth ;

c2

and lived, always young and always
beautiful, a hundred years ; through all
which time she never failed to seek the
forests when the sun rose, and hear the
first song of the creatures to whom she
owed her joy.'

CHAPTER IT.

Cecilia's friends and neighbours.

The Eeverend Reginald Tremayne was
sitting in his study that afternoon reading
the last number of the World. It is said
that the country clergy form the largest
proportion of its readers. Cecilia passed
the open window, and as the vicar looked
up, she said,

Can I do anything for you in the
village ? I am going to see old Mrs.
Weston

Ob, don't trouble yourself, my dear,'

replied her uncle, with a slightly fretful
look. It was annoying to be interrupted
in the reading of a mysterious scandal in
high life by the mention of a farm-labourer's
widow, and it was almost the only fault he
had to find with his niece, that she was
much too fond of pottering about amongst
these wretched poor people. There were
reasons, known only to himself, why this
habit of Cecilia's was peculiarly distasteful
to him.

 Don't trouble yourself about Mrs.
Weston, she is in Marsden's parish, surely
he and all his women folk can look after
her. No, thank you, my dear, I want
nothing in the village;' and, glad to forget
for a time the odious subject of his parish,
Mr. Tremayne returned to the fascinating
paragraphs of the World.

Cecilia went on her way without replying.

She had no intention of allowing
anyone to interfere with her visits to such
of the people of the neighbourhood as
cared to see her, whether they lived in
her uncle's parish, or in the next  St.
Stephen's. Let the parsons make their
professional visits to the poor; let them
talk about the church, or about saving
souls, according to their High or Low proclivities
; let their wives and daughters
give them tracts and lecture them on their
shortcomings,  all that Cecilia cared about
was to go and see these cottagers as their
friend and equal.

Strict laws of etiquette ruled Miss
Tremayne in these visits to the village
folk. She never called upon them on a
Monday, for that was their washing-day,
or on a Saturday, when they scrubbed their
floors. And if it was contrary to propriety

to call before lunch upon the wife of a
neighbouring squire or parson  ladies who
had their pretty drawing-rooms always
ready for the reception of visitors  surely
it was more unpardonable to visit a poor
woman in the morning, when she was hot
and busy over her cooking or ironing, in
her shabbiest gown, and her one room a
kitchen. She, poor soul, could not say
she was ' not at home,' but, however much
worried and ' put about ' she might feel,
she was obliged to seem honoured and
delighted at seeing the 'gentry' in her
cottage, or they would call her insolent
and ungrateful.

The large white gates of the vicarage
grounds opened upon a lane bordered by
walls of slates and earth, with vividly
green ferns luxuriating in every crevice.
Oak and ash trees met overhead, and the

road was a cool and shady bower of
greenery. The lane led out upon a broad
and open down, where heather and golden
furze, and bracken with short fine grass,
were the only vegetation. All around was
a wide expanse of country. To the south,
the fertile meadows, rich with trees, sloped
softly towards the broad river Tamar, and
the shining line of the English Channel.
northwards rose the lofty hills of Dartmoor,
their crests crowned with grey piles
of granite rock ; purple shadows, green
and golden gleams sweeping over those
rugged slopes, which seem eternal in form,
and ever-chanojino in colour.

There is something in a wild and solitary
land like this, which appeals with a
mysterious and irresistible force to certain
minds. Nature is here her true self, the
same as she has remained from immemorial

times. Untouched by civilization, unstained
by man, she has retained her power
to subdue and influence him. These wilds,
which cannot be cultivated, which yield
nothing for our material wants, are full of
vital food for the imagination, are full of
sympathy for strong, pure, freedom-loving
natures, which hate the falsehoods and
the fetters of conventional society.

I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills,
from whence cometh my help.'

This was the refrain which sometimes
sounded in Cecilia's ears, as she left the
vicarage woods and gardens, and came out
upon the open down, where the range of
Dartmoor towered before her in the purple
glory of sunset, in the peace unspeakable
of a cloudless mornings, or grey and chill
in a winter twilight.

Her home faced the sunny south ; trees

and evergreen shrubs sheltered it from
rough winds ; indoors were soft carpets,
hot-house flowers, pictures, porcelain, talk
of books and art  but sometimes she
would feel suffocated, as in a too warm
and perfumed atmosphere, sometimes she
panted for the freedom, the keen, wild
breath, the austere boundlessness of the
moors.

Cecilia went along the grey high-road,
and then turned into a lane which led to
the village of St. Stephen's. As she came
in sight of the first cluster of white-washed,
slate-roofed cottages, she beheld coming
towards her Mrs. Marsden, wife of the
vicar of that parish. She was a fine
specimen of that well-known class  the
British matron. A tall and portly woman
of fifty-five, upright as a grenadier, with
hooked nose and much-developed chin

with cold eyes, devoid of all expression
except perhaps slight disapproval of things
in general  such a woman is truly majestic
on her ' native heath ' as wife of squire or
parson, and pillar of Church and State;
but nowhere is she seen to such advantage
as at the table-cThoie of a foreign hotel,
where she represents the British constitution,
the Protestant religion, and all the
other proprieties of life amidst a profligate
and benighted people.

Mrs. Marsden oave Cecilia a frio-id
greeting.

*And were you going to see Weston,
Miss Tremayne ?' (Mrs. Marsden never
condescended to give any prefix to the
names of the lower classes.) ' Because
really you need not trouble yourself about
her. Mr. Marsden and I visit her at
regular intervals, as of course it is our

rluty to do, she being one of our parishioners


All unconsciously she was echoing Mr.
Tremayne.

Oh, yes,' replied Cecilia, with a certain
sweet dignity which had gained for her
the title of ' Serene Highness ' from the
younger members of the Marsden family,
'yes, I am sure you and Mr. Marsden
would often visit Mrs. Weston as your
parishioner. But, you see, I am merely
her friend

Mrs. Marsden smiled loftily.

Do you think you are likely to have
quite a good influence on the lower classes
if you treat them as your friends and
equals ?'

Would you not rather have them as
friends than as enemies V Cecilia answered,
still with the unruffled gentleness

which had a most irritating effect upon the
elder lady.

'My dear Miss Tremayue, pray, do not
misunderstand me. Surely there should
be a certain distance and reserve kept up
in one's manner to poor people. Mr. Mars-den
and myself are strongly of opinion
that this sort ol friendliness and  and
familiarity are likely to set a bad example
and have a pernicious effect on the lower

orders. There is quite enough want of respect
to their betters, and proper subordination
amongst them, as it is.'

If Mrs. Weston wishes me to give up
calling upon her, I will do so, at once. I
think she is the person to decide whom she
will see in her own house. For after all,
you know, Mrs. Marsden, she is as much
mistress of her cottage as you are of your
vicarage.'

She ouolit to be in the workhouse, that
is the proper place for her,' said Mrs.
Marsden, reddening angrily. ' I wish you
good-morning, and am sorry that as you
have no mother of your own, you will not
listen to a kindly meant word of advice
from me ;' and with that the vicar's wife
sailed away with an air of outraged propriety.


Cecilia Tremayne is a most objectionable
young woman,' she thought. ' Withall
her airs, and her pride, and her extravagance
 think of her wearing a white
cashmere gown and that exquisite old
lace round her throat when she is poking
about the cottages, I always keep my
shabbiest things to put on when I visit
the poor  with all her airs and her pride
she is nothing but a low radical and
little better than a downright infidel in

m

her notions, and it is all the more 
when one considers what an aristocratic
old family the Tremaynes are. I
should just like to find out who Cecilia's
mother was. I shall always believe there
was a mystery there. 

Mrs. Weston's little white-washed cottage
had a bush of fuchsia beside the door, and
a bed of stocks, marigolds, red daisies, and
other hardy flowers. Indoors, it was very
picturesque. The large, open fireplace
had peat and logs of wood smouldering. on
the hearth, and a narrow curtain of bright
coloured chintz edsed the high mantelshelf,
above gleamed brass candlesticks
and ruddy copper pots and pans. The
black oaken dresser, so often met within
Dartmoor cottages, had its store of blue
delf plates and tea-cups ; the small-pane
casement window had white dimity curtains

and geraniums on the window-sill. Mrs.
Weston herself was a pleasant picture  an
old woman with wrinkled rosy face, grey
hair, white cap, and scarlet kerchief over
her lavender print gown. She was partly
paralysed, and unable to move from her
chair without assistance. Her face lighted
up as Cecilia entered, and there was no
lack of respect in the hearty greeting on
either side  Cecilia's respect for a long
life of work and struggle, and patient endurance
of illness and poverty and hardship
; matched by Mrs. Weston's respect
for refinement and cultivation and everything
else which makes a gentlewoman.

'You'll find me a bit put about, Miss
Tremayne,' said Mrs. Weston presently.
That good lady, Mrs. Marsden has just
been here, and left some tracts, and had
some talk, but I can't hold to what she

VOL. I. D

says, no bow. She as good as told me
that my poor dear husband had gone to
the bad place, because as you know, Miss
Tremayne, he wasn't one as was given to
go to church ; he liked to take a bit of a
stroll Sundays, ad get a bit of fresh air,
and look at the green fields, after being
down in a copper-mine all the week. She
says, Mrs. Marsden does, we shall none of
us be saved if we don't believe what the
parsons tell us, and it was all wrote down
in what she calls the " Athanasian creed;'
that long rambling thing as they reads in
church, Eastern and Cliristmases, I have
heard him scores of times, but I could
never make head nor tail to him. Now, do
you think, miss, as my husband as never
took a drop too much, nor said a bad
word, nor did harm to any living creature,
do you think he brain in heaven ? Because,

if be brain, I don't care about going
there.'

Cecilia's grey eyes flashed.

Has Mrs. Marsden been to heaven, that
she can say so confidently who is, and who is
not there ? Your husband was a good manif
there ever was one, and all goodness is
everlasting and shall never die  at least
such is mj belief. I do not profess to
know as much as Mrs. Marsden does.
There are quite enough difficult things todo
every day, and quite enough puzzling
things going on around us, without our
troubling ourselves about what we cannot
see or know or prove.'

That's true, sure enough, miss said the
old woman, with a sigh.

For instance,' Cecilia went on, speaking
more to herself than to Mrs. Weston 
why have you been obliged to work so

d2

hard all your life, sometimes when you
were so tired and ailing that you could hardly
stand ? why have you been so short of
money that you have always been obliged
to go without almost all the pleasures and
comforts of life, even now when you are
old and helpless ? And all the while there
are thousands of idle people, with more
money than they know how to spend,
wasting and squandering every day what
would give their fellow-creatures rest from
the frightful struo'o-le which wears them
out long before they are old. It's an old
story, just as old as Dives and Lazarus,
only the horrible injustice of it all weighs
more heavily on people's minds than it
ever did before. And no amount of almsgiving
makes matters any better ; quite the
contrary

Well, miss, the world do seem all in a

muddle-like ; but there  'tis well to be content
with one's lot.'

Is it well ? is it the right thing to fold
one's hands and be patient and resigned ?
It seems to me that all the good that has
ever been done in the world has come
through people being discontented, and saying,
" This or that evil shall not go on ?"
I am only tiring you with this sort of talk.
But it is such a relief to speak out
sometimes all that is in one's mind. All
my life I have been trying to make our
home pleasant and comfortable and everything
he likes, to my uncle, who has
always been so kind and generous to me,
and he little guesses what I really think
and feel, for I am obliged to carefully keep
it from him. It is like a story I heard
once  somebody was admiring the Quaker
ladies for being so calm and placid. " Ah !"

said one of them, *' you little know how we
boil inwardly." '

'Tis a pity you haven't a home of your
own, Miss Tremayne ;' and the old woman
smiled significantly. ' 'Tis only in nature
you should feel moped sometimes, livings
alone with your old uncle.'

Cecilia laughed.

Why, have not I a home of my own
already ? ' Do you think if I were married
I should be even as free as I am now ?
Better be an old man's darlings than a
young man's slave  you know the proverb.
And I do think my uncle is fond of
me, though I daresay I am rather a disappointment
to him in some ways.'

To be sure,' said Mrs. Weston, who held
those depreciating views of matrimony
which are common amongst the experienced,
even though they urge the single

to fetter themselves. * To be sure, miss,
you're best off as you are. If girls
weren't so ignorant and so foolish, there
wouldn't be many of them as 'ud marryat
all. The best husbands be but plagues
at times ;' and the widow forgot that she
had declined heaven without hers.

 I wish,' gait Cecilia, musingly, * I knew
a little more about my father and motherhood
have lived here all your life, Mis-weston,
cannot you remember hearing
anything about them ?'

No, miss, I don't know as ever I did.
I mind your coming to the vicarage with
a nursemaid, quite sudden-like, and everybody
wondered at a bachelor gentlemanlike
Mr. Tremayne, and an old lady like
his mother, caring to trouble themselves
with a little girl. I heard tell as how
your father, the vicar's brother, had gone

out to the Indies, but I never beard no
word about your mother. Folks thought
as how she was dead, and that's why your
uncle and your grandmother took to you,
and brought you up ; and then, when old
Mrs. Tremayne died, that good lady, Mrs.
Evesham, went to live at the vicarage, and
now she's dead and gone too, and I am
sure I don't wonder you feel a bit lonesome,
Miss Tremayne.'

'My father died in Ceylon, I know ; but
is my mother dead too, do you think ?'

What does your uncle say ?'

Mrs. Weston discreetly parried the
question. She had her own ideas on the
subject  ideas she had no intention of revealing
to Miss Remaineth

! my uncle says she is dead,' Cecilia
replied, a little hurriedly.

An uncomfortable suspicion would cross

ber mind that the vicar bad never told her
the whole truth about her parents.

Then, miss, I should certainly rest content
with that, if I was you.'

Mrs. Weston thought to herself :

The old parson can be as artful as a
fox when be has a mind to, and, if it suits
him to make out her mother is dead, Miss
Tremayne is not likely to get the better of
he.'

Soon afterwards Cecilia rose to go, and
the old woman and the young lady parted,
each feeling a little refreshed by a breath
of different life and surroundings from her
own.

CHAPTER III.

A PATRIOT OF OUR OWN DAY.

Miss Tremayne returned to the high-roads
and pursued it for another quarter of a
mile. Facing her there rose a hill, with
scattered white cottages and garden
patches on its lower slope ; higher up, the
cultivated fields gave place to heather and
open moorland. One house there was, in
this little hamlet, larger and of different
aspect to the rest. It stood by itself in a
paddock where a black and white cow was
grazing ; a slight iron railing separated the

paddock from a lawn and flower-borders,
wherein bloomed glowing dahlias and
geraniums. On one side was a plantation
of airs which had a troubled and wind-swept
existence in the winter. The house
was of freestone with slated roof, it had
a large bow-window and a deep porch with
glass door and sides, forming a little conservatory,
and full of flowering plants.
Bleak and bare as the place was, it was
also so airy and sunny that it gave one a
pleasant and healthy sensation to look
at it.

Just as Cecilia came in sight, a lady
walked down the path which led across
the paddock to the little iron gate which
opened on to the high-road. She was a
beautiful woman of forty or thereabouts,
who had the grace and distinction of one
of Gainsborough's portraits. And Nature

bad bestowed upon her all the picturesqueness
which comes from powdered hair ;
for some years ago, when she had fallen ill
of malarious fever on the continent, her
abundant dark brown hair had turned silver-grey.
Her complexion was still brilliant ;
her violet blue eyes could belong to only
one nationality. But, though she was
born in the county of Cork, the name she
bore now was not Irish. She was the
wife of Eccleston Rivers, M.P. for an
English borough.

Mrs. Rivers came towards Cecilia with
both hands extended, smiling with a certain
archness. She had the brightest
manner, the sweetest laugh ; yet a look
sometimes crossed her face which revealed
that she had passed through the most
intense anxiety, grief, and even horror.
Possibly the malaria of Italy was not the

sole cause of that deadly illness which had
assailed her nearly seven years ago.

A vivid look of joy flushed Cecilia's
face.

Kathleen !' she exclaimed, ' when did
you come ? Ah, why did you not tell me
you were here r'

All the passionate love and devotion
that Cecilia had ever felt in her life were
lavished on this, her woman-friend.

I arrived only last night. It was too
bad of me not to write to you, Cecilia, but
I have been so busy  Mr. Rivers has gone
to America again for a few weeks. I saw
him off at Queenstown, then I came down
here straight from Holyhead. 1 suppose
you had my last letter saying I expected
to be here some time this month ?'

Yes, but I had not hoped to see you so
soon.'

Had the letter been opened in the
post-office, as usual?' asked Mrs. Rivers,
with a slight scornful smile.

Yes,' replied Cecilia, with a look of
disgust, *and clumsily gummed down
again, also as usual. The detectives did
not get much for their pains.'

No, I should hardly venture to entrust
any important letter to the post-office.'

Cecilia looked at her friend with wistful,
passionate eyes. Mrs. Rivers lived ina
world into which she herself was permitted
only an occasional and tantalizing
glimpse. She was not only the wife of a
member of Parliament, and knew everything
that happened the night before it
was in the papers, and could feel as much
proprietary interest in the House of Commons
as a bishop's wife does in her cathedral.
But she lived in a world which had

links with all the patriots of history.
Her friends and associates could claim
kinship with all who have struggled to
free a nation from an alien yoke  with
Deborah and Gideon and the Maccabees 
with Joan of Arc and William Tell and
Kociusko  with the Greeks of 1820, and
the Hungarians and Italians of our own
time.

You have been very busy lately repeated
Cecilia, 'your time is always occupied
and here am I, leading a narrow, useless
life, unable to do anything for the cause I
have most at heart. And it is all the
harder for me, because I am English,
Kathleen. You can have no idea what it
is to be in my position, shut out from
sympathy  my mind on fire with thoughts
I dare not utter. Whatever you and your
friends have to bear, you can uphold and

sympathize with each other  you hae no
shame to bear as I have  better be one of
the oppressed than one of the oppressors !'

For, as Cecilia felt bitterly, ' Italy for the
Italians !' was a cry that once stirred
English hearts. English eyes have shed tears
for the proofs of Poland. English throats
have cheered wildly for Kossuth and
Garibaldi. But when England itself stands
in the place of Austria or Russia  ah, thou
Englishmen regard an ' oppressed nationality'
from a totally different point of
view.

Kathleen, tell me, is there nothing T
can do?' and Cecilia fixed her eyes on
her friend with a look of almost despair.

Kathleen met that look with deep
tenderness, and yet there was something
baffling in it, something which softly put
Cecilia by. It was as if Mrs. Rivers took

the imploring haud held out to lier, and
clasped it lovingly ; and yet held Cecilia at
a little distance from her, and never allowed
her to come very near.

You have given sympathy to our
national cause, you have given money to
our starving people, do you call that
nothing ?'

Nothing,' replied Cecilia, in a heartbroken
voice ; her eyes fell and she turned
away in silence.

Mrs. Rivers was greatly touched, and she
took a sudden resolution.

I will tell her my secret,' she thought.
Why not? It would harm no one but
myself if all England knew it.'

Cecilia mavourneen, don't look so
' wisht," as your Cornish folk say. You
are Cornish, are you not ? a true Celt. I
think most of the characteristics one has

VOL. I. i-j

ever beard of as belonnrinof to the Celtic
race, may be found in you.'

Yes, the Tremaynes are Cornish,'
replied Cecilia, absently ; for once she was
not interested in her ancestors.

But there is one trait which our enemies
tell us we have, in common with the French
which you certainly have not. You do
not love to be ruled by a strong hand, do
you ? Well, if you will come with rae this
afternoon, you will see the English Government
at work.' Then suddenly Mrs. Rivers'
face changed from the half-bantering expression
it had worn to a severe gravity.
Cecilia, I am going to drive to Prince-town
this afternoon. I want you to come
with me. The pony-carriage is at the
door.'

They drove for miles, at first through a
fertile wooded valley, and then they

gradually left all siin of cultivation behind
them, and came upon the wild and open
moorland. The road was unfenced, on
either side granite boulders had in far off
ages been tumbled about the hill-side, and
lay like flocks of sheep amidst the short

grass, and rushes, and heather.

The two friends slowly wended their

way up a long hill, and now and then they
turned round to behold the fair and
shining prospect that lay behind them,
which every minute grew vaster in expanse.
Below the moorlands there lay meadows
of a vivid green, softly rounded hills and
woods of oak-trees, a gleam of the broad
Tamar, whilst far away, faintly visible ina
sunlit haze, rose the rugged outline of
the Cornish moors.

But now the summit of the hill was
gained, a corner of the road was turned,

E 2



UNIVcp<jnv OF elf fNOI<

and at once a widely different scene was-outspread.
It was the very heart and
citadel of Dartmoor. The hills stood all
round the horizon like a fortification of
nature's own building  grassy ramparts
crowned with piles of granite. The sun
still shone, but so grave and sombre were
the grey and purple hues of the long
sweep of moorland, that they seemed to
absorb his rays and quench his brightness,
Something stern and ominous was in the
very air, so one might have fancied. And
there, a little below the road  there as a
grim and terrible fact  stood Dartmoor
Prison  a great, freestone building,
pierced with a multitude of small windows
like a factory  or rather, a collection of
buildings, enclosed within a gigantic wall.
Around the prison, the moors stretched on
and on, vast, unbounded, like an ocean ;.

overhead was a broad expanse of sky ;
nature was never freer, more untamed than
here  here, where man was a slave.

As they neared the ponderous granite
gateway of the prison, Cecilia saw a group
of men breaking stones beside the road.
Each was dressed in a grey cap, jacket,
and knickerbockers spotted with marks like
arrow-heads,  a costume that was at once
sinister and grotesque. By their side
stood a warder in dark-blue uniform, with
a rifle over his shoulder, who looked half
soldier, half policeman.

Mrs. Rivers gradually slackened her
ponies' pace, till, as they neared the group
of convicts, the little carriage proceeded
merely at a walk.

Do not speak, do not ask me any
questions,' she said, hurriedly, under her
breath.

Cecilia's heart beat faster, conscious
that something of vital importance to her
friend was about to happen. She saw that
there was a look of strained eagerness, of
intense expectancy on Kathleen's face, and
the hand which held the ponies' reins
trembled visibly.

And now one of the men looked up
from his heap of broken granite and gazed
straight at the two ladies. Generally the
convicts, in their ghastly grey clothing,
resembled each other, like the sheep in a
flock. But this man was a startling
exception to the rest. He was tall and
muscular in figure, with most refined and
regular features; his face was worn and
deadly pale, yet still youthful ; something
in his look seemed familiar to Cecilia  but
all passed in one moment; she was conscious

only of the man's white, eager face,
and the passionate gaze of his dark-blue
eyes.

The carriage crept slowly on  there was
one look between the two, between the
convict breaking stones beside the road,
and Kathleen Rivers, the beautiful, richly
dressed woman in her dainty equipage,
with its sleek pair of ponies and whited
harness  one moment when their eyes
devoured each other, one moment into
which was concentrated an agony of
emotion  then the carriage went on, and
the convict bent over his work again.

Not a word was spoken between the two
women until they were out of sight of the
prisoners. Then Kathleen Rivers turned
to her companion, with a vivid light in her
eyes and a flush on her cheek, a look in

which a lofty pride and love seemed to
triumph over mortal anguish.

Cecilia,' she said, ' that was my
brother.'

CHAPTER IV.

THE convict's sTony.

The two women drove some distance
beyond the prison before they exchanged
another word. Then Mrs. Elvers turned
to Cecilia with a face that was still very
pale, and had a sort of terrible triumph
in it.

There, Cecilia, you have seen for yourself
what may happen in England to a
man who has tried to free his country.
They are not all feted and cheered as
Kossuth and Garibaldi were.'

Oh ! Kathleen,' said Cecilia, in a voice
half choked with emotion, her eyes full of
blinding tears, ' I never knew  I never
dreamt of this.'

*Yes,' Mrs. Rivers went on, * it is all
very romantic to read about Polish and
Italian patriots in their dungeons. It
seems to bring it more home to one, it
makes one feel what suffering for one's
country really means, when one sees one's
own brother in that convict's dress.'

Kathleen,' and Cecilia's hands went upto
hide her face, 'you ought to hate the
very sight of me, an Englishwoman. I
shall never dare talk to you again about
Ireland. My words must seem a mockery.
How little I knew  how little I knew !'

Dear girl,' replied Kathleen, very tenderly,
' you are one with us in heart and
sympathy. I have shown you how fully I

trust sou by bringing you here to-day.
And now I know you want to bear my
brother's story, though you do not like to
ask me to tell it you.'

Indeed, I do want to hear it was
Cecilia's fervent answer.

Wei], to begin with, you know both my
father and mother belonged to families in
whom patriotism was a tradition. My
father, Mr. O'O'Donovan, was a Catholic, his
family had suffered terribly in '98 ; my
mother was a Protestant, and her father
had been a friend of Lord Edward Fitzgerald's.
According to a compact made
between my parents, and most honourably
carried out, I was brought up in my mother's
faith. My earliest recollections are
of the horrors of 1847, when the people
around us were dying by thousands of
hunger, and their corpses lay by the roadside.

My father and mother worked night
and da', trying to save these poor creatures,
and they braved the fever which
followed the famine when their neighbours
were fleeing to England. But my mother's
heroism did not save her. She died of
the fever after a few days' illness. My
father was a nearly broken-hearted man ;
but he struofSfled on, devotions himself to
the cause of the people; and, though he
took no active part in the rising of '48, he
did good service by sheltering several
refugees, and helping them to escape to
America.

Some years afterwards he married a
Catholic lady, and she was the mother of
my only brother Maurice. She was the
best of mothers to us both, and I can
never praise half enough her tenderness
and the honourable manner in which she,

as well as my father, abstained from all
interference with the religious opinions in
which I had been brought up. Of all
people in the world, I think Irish Catholics
are at once the most devout and the most
tolerant.

Well, Maurice grew up as ardent a
Nationalist as the rest of our family We
placed all our hopes on him ; my father's
failing health prevented his taking any
part in politics himself, but he hoped that
his son would fight for his country in the
House of Commons. That was the only
sort of fighting which he believed was
possible for Ireland. Fortunately for
himself, he did not live to see the Fenian
rising  the wild hopes, the bitter disappointment,
and the tremendous vengeance
of the Government. My brother Maurice
was then about two-and-twenty, clever,

handsome, with charming manners  jus"'
the young man to be popular in society.
He was studying for the Irish bar, and he
mioht have been living: ii Dublin now, a
rising barrister, if he had not taken the
losing side. His was just one of those
natures which is ready to dare and suffer
everything for the cause of freedom  such
a nature, in fact, as those of the Polish,
Hungarian, and Italian patriots whom
Englishmen admire so much. I believe in
'66 and '67 he went through mental torture
 he longed to take up arms for Ireland,
yet all the time he believed that
those who did so would bring only fresh
disasters on their country. But what
could you expect from a young and ardent
man of two-and-twenty ? I think he at
last joined the rising with much o the
same feeliuo- with which English soldiers

must have ridden in that famous Balaclava
charge  "some one bad blundered;" there
was nothing but death ahead for most of
them, still not to fight when the others
did would be impossible dishonour.

Tor some time after the outbreak had
been put down, Maurice was unsuspected
and untouched. He did not attempt to
escape ; he went back to our old home near
Cork, and there he stayed, studying his
law-books, and calmly waiting for the
doom which he felt sure would fall upon
him in the end. His mother and I implored
him to fly to America. " Let them
take my life if they will," was his answer.
' It will be only a just atonement for the
blood that has been fruitlessly shed."

The end came at last. It was grey
dawn in the early summer when I was
awakened by a loud knocking at the door.

In a moment I knew what ifc meant. I
sprang up and looked out of window.
The lawn in front of the house was full
of armed police. I think they imagined
that some desperate resistance would be
made. I rushed to my brother's room,
where I found him in a profound and
quiet sleep. I awoke him, I frantically
implored him to try to escape.

'*'It is useless," he answered, calmly.
"You will find the house is surrounded.
This is what I foresaw from the first ; why
struggle against it ? "We played a hopeless
game." Then he asked me to arouse
his mother whilst he dressed himself. Ina
few minutes we three went downstairs
together, and Maurice threw open the hall-door
and surrendered himself.

Oh, Cecilia, when they had taken him
from me and his mother  he was her only

SOD, and she was a widow  she and I
clung to each other and thought of the
garden of Gethsemane, and the soldiers
bearing avvaj One who made no resistance
Ah me ! you English  no, not you, not

you, dear, but your countrymen what

blasphemy would my words seem in their

ears ! But if ever a stainless martyr

was nailed to a cross, my Maurice has
been crucified these seven long years I
Think of him as you saw him to-day, the
refined and chivalrous gentleman, chained
to those men, the vilest in the kingdom,
thieves, murderers, loathsome ruJBSans ! 
Ob, Maurice, my brother, my only
brother !'

Kathleen Rivers burst into passionate
weeping, and for some minutes the two
women clasped each other's hands, and
shed tears together. But Mrs. Rivers,

VOL. I. F

long used to self-repression, soon recovered
ber calmness, and she said to Cecilia,
with a smile which was sadder than her
tears,

'Do you wonder now that my hair is
grey ?'

Of course,' she went on presently,
my life ever since has not been all sadness.
My husband's love and perfect
sympathy would have made me very
happy, if I could have been happy whilst
Maurice was being tortured. Many of
my friends have wondered how I could
have borne to marry an Englishman.
But you know that Mr. Rivers is one of
those few noble members of Parliament
who have striven for the cause of Ireland
almost as if they were Irish born ; and of
course they have in consequence lost all
chance of any kind of office. My husband

is, in auy Ccise, too much of a Radical
to find favour with the Government;
what little influence he has, he uses without
ceasing to get my brother released.
But as yet we see no hope of success.'

'And what was his exact sentence?'
asked Cecilia, in a low voice.

Ten years' penal servitude. He thought
it worse than death.'

'Did you never think about trying to
contrive his escape?'

Cecilia glanced about her a little apprehensively
as she spoke, for the very walls
might have ears.

There is nothing I would not try to do ;
but every effort of mine would be hopeless,

for the simple reason that he would refuse

1.

to avail himself of it. He said to me,
when I saw him in prison just before his
trial,

r2

*' If I am convicted, as I certainly
shall be, and if my sentence is penal servitude
instead of death, let no one trouble
themselves about planning an escape forme.
In the first place, I believe no
prisoner yet has ever succeeded in making
good his escape from Portland or Dartmoor;
it is not like it was in the old
Australian days. No, I shall be resigned
to my sentence, whatever it may prove. I
engaged in a struggle which was hopeless
from the beo;lnnino : what could a few
poorly armed, half-disciplined men do
against all the armies of EQQ:land? She
could crush us with her little finger. But
I was ready to die then, I am ready to die
now, rather than stand idly by, when
other men were laying down their lives for
Ireland."

It was said so like an Irishman,

was ifc not, Cecilia ?  a generous, chivalrous,
illogical Irishman ! But many and
many a night I have lain awake planning
schemes for his escape. I believe it might
be done. Sometimes one of these Dartmoor
fogs come on suddenly, when the
prisoners are out of doors at work. Not a
yard before you can you see, and that is
the time when one or two of the convicts
have escaped ; but they have always been
re-taken, because they were known by
their convict's clothes. Now, if I were
somewhere at hand, waiting for him in
some hiding-place, with a suit of ordinary
clothes for him to put on in exchange, the
great difficulty of escaping would be
overcome. Of course I would have to
contrive some means of letting him
know the place where I was waiting for
him, and then how would he find

me in the fog? Certainly be could
not do it without my conveying to him
beforehand a mariner's compass.'

Kathleen, do you think it is impossible
?' cried Cecilia, with kindling eyes.

Quite impossible. Maurice has some
fantastic notions of honour, as I have told
you, and he would refuse to accept his
liberty if I were implicated. Assisting a
convict to escape, is felony, my dear, as
you may read in the placard hung up outside
the prison gateway. I would not
hesitate at felony or anything else, myself,
but unfortunately Maurice declines to
assist me. Xow you know why I have
taken Morwell Lodge, and why I often
drive to Princetown. It is not with any
hopeless scheme of helping Maurice to
escape. Twice or three times every year
I have been allowed by the authorities to

Lave a short interview with Maurice in the
prison. There are iron bars between us,
and a vvarder always present, and we are
not allowed to speak of our country, or
any public affairs. But you can partly imagine
what these few brief minutes are to
my brother and me. Then sometimes, at
long intervals, I am fortunate enough, as
I drive past the prison, to see him at his
work, and we are able to exchange one
silent look, as we did to-day. 01 course
this does not often happen. I may come
here a dozen times and not see him ; he maybe
kept at work within the prison walls.
But to-day I had a strong presentiment that
we would meet, and this is why I asked
you to come with me. I felt the time had
come for me to tell you all, and trust you
fully.'

And now, Kathleen, you know,' was

Cecilia's earnest answer, 'that if ever the
time should come when you are able to
somehow contrive your brother's escape,
you may rely upon my giving you all
the help that is in my power to give. I
shall be just as ready as you are to run
the risk of being sent to prison.'

Dear Cecilia,' said Mrs. Rivers, smiling
sadi', ' I only wish that all our own people
were as ardent in our country's cause as
you are. Ireland would have been free
long ago. The time may come when I'll
call upon you to do something for us, but
as for my brother's escape, all attempt in
that direction he has barred himself.
Meantime all you can do for me is to drive
with me to Princetown. Heaven only
knows what I 2:0 through on these expeditions
 the agony of suspense as I near the
prison, the sickening disappointment when

I meet dozens and dozens of prisoners, and
bo is not among: them, or else livings a

O ' ID

whole lifetime in the few moments when
we actually see each other. But to look
into each other's faces, and not to be
allowed to speak  cam you conceive the
torture of it? Still if sou will come with
me, Cecilia, your true sympathy v/ill a
little deaden the pain 1 suffer all these
weary miles.'

*I will come, Kathleen: you may always
depend upon me.'

I mean to remain at Morwell Loose
until Mr. Rivers returns to England, which
will be just before Christmas; so I may
make many demands upon your time,
Cecilia.'

Tell me, where is Mrs. O'O'Donovan, your
brother's mother?'

A strange look passed over Kathleen's

face, a mingling of pain and enthusiasm.

'She lived od, for a few months after her
son's trial and conviction, the life of a
Sister of Charity, devoting part of her time
to the sick and poor, and the rest to
prayer  in her patience, charity, and devotion
like one of the saints of old Irish
days. Her health had long been delicate,
and, in lessthanayear after the loss of her
son, she peacefully passed away. They
sentenced her to death when they convicted
Maurice. But, mercifully, she never
realised the indignities which have been
heaped upon her only son. I know something:
of how the Government have tried to
plunge him into the lowest depths of
degradation. But degrade his mind and
soul they never can.'

The two women parted that day with
one fervent clasp of the hand, one tender

kiss. It was as if they bad partaken of
some solemn, awful sacrament, which had
bound them together, and to the noble
army of martyrs all over the world, in a
mystical fellowship of suffering.

CHAPTER V.

THE Maidens.

The village of St. Stephen's lay in a hollow
of the bills. A few whitewashed cottages
with slated roofs clustered round a greys
church tower. Above rose bills, bare,
except for furze and heather, and crowned
with granite rocks. But, though so near
the moor, St. Stephen's was embowered in
trees. There was an avenue of sycamores
in the churchyard ; each farmhouse had its
own little wood around it, and the vicarage
was almost hidden in foliage. For, to gain

luxuriant vegetation in the west country,
all you need is shelter from the wild sea-winds
which sweep it on three sides ; for
scorching summer heat and winter snow
are both almost unknown. So ferns grow
like a little tanf]:led forest in all the hioh-
banked lanes, and flowers are rampant in
low-lying cottage gardens.

The vicarage of St. Stephen's was an
ordinary looking modern house, with fairly
kept lawn and shrubberies. Indoors,
comfort was somewhat sacrificed to an
ecclesiastical appearance; but no clergyman
who wore stiff round collars which called
his neck, and cassock which impeded his
limbs, would complain of early English
fire-places which smoked, and straight-backed
and uncomfortable oaken chairs.

However, two young ladies, who were
sittings in the dining-room one morning.

were by uo means inclined to take
mediaeval and ascetic views of life.
Harriet Marsdeu, the vicars eldest
daughter, was, what is commonly called,
a fine-looking woman. 'Everything comes
to him who waits ;' and Harriet, who all her
early youth had felt the possession of a
low forehead, a turned-up nose, a widemouth,
and high shoulders to be her heavy
cross, now found herself in the fashion.
For the rest she was tall, had a bright
colour, dark and expressive eyes, and
luxuriant black hair.

It was a trial to both the sisters that
the second, Janet, should so decidedly look
the elder; somehow, it made each of them
appear older than she was. But  as Mrs.
Marsden said  it could be ' managed,' and
-everything in this world can be managed.

There must be an air of deferring to
Janet's superior wisdom and experience,
as if she were in reality the senior ; and
she must be * put forward ' when there was
a school treat, when some uninteresting
married people were coming to dinner, or
on any other dull occasion.

Janet, who sat the other side of the
fire-place, dutifully darning stockings, was
in every way a contrast to her sister
Harriet. She was small and slight, with
pretty little features, but with a sickly
complexion and scanty flaxen hair. Everything
about her was precise and trim. 'A
born old maid,' thought her mother, in
anguish, witnessing Janet's neat, orderly
ways ; Janet never ran into debt like
Harriet, but made the best of her meagre
allowance, and  what was almost fatal 

Janet fondled aud made a fuss over the
household tabby. For it seems generally
supposed that the qualities of order,
economy, and kindness to animals disqualify
women for married life.

The two sisters were enjoying a grumble
too-ether this morning", and the immediate
cause of their low spirits was a tennis-party
at Morwell Vicarage, to which they
were c'oinof tomorrow afternoon.

 How I hate tennis !' sighed Janet.
The good old days of croquet were gone
for ever ; when one could dawdle about a
whole afternoon without exertion, and
carry on a delightful conversation with a
curate, scarcely interrupted now and then
by having to wield a mallet, or display a
pretty foot on a ball. Now all was changed.
Janet had neither the strength nor the
inclination for hopping violently and

dodging after an obtrusive ball, on wliicli
one must keep one's eyes, instead of on
the curate.

As for Harriet, she had learnt that one
cannot have all the good things of life at
the same time. By desperate exertions
she had succeeded in gaining a small
waist, but she was not able to play tennis
without gasping, and getting terribly red
in the face, until one day her father had
made one of his characteristic speeches.

I think you look rather less repulsive
when you are sitting still, Harriet, than
you do when you are playing tennis.'

I positively have nothing to wear tomorrow
afternoon sighed Harriet.

She rose, yawning and stretching her
plump arms, and walked to the window,
where she stood looking dolefully into the
garden.

VOL. I. G

At that moment the door opened, and
there entered a boy of eighteen, very tall
and pale, and slender, with dark hair and
eyes, and keen, regular features. He was
Clive Marsden, the vicar's only son.

Oh, Clive, is that you ?' Harriet
turned, her face brightening with a sudden
thought. 'I want you so much to do something
for me. I must have a new tennis
apron for the Tremaynes' party tomorrow;
just draw me one of your awfully lovely
patterns, there's a good fellow. I have
some stuff that will just do ; Janet, you
are such a quick worker, I am sure you
could get it done in time. It must be just
an outline pattern, you know, Clive.'

You are a nice slave-driver,' replied
Clive, laughing. * However, if Janet does
not mind her lion's share of the work, I
am sure I need not. Here, get your piece

of stuff, Harriet, I'll do it in five minutes.'

Ob, Janet won't mind, of course,'
replied Harriet, serenely, as sbe went
towards the door ; ' I could never do
needlework, but it just suits Janet's
style.'

'Really, Janet,' said Clive, when the
elder sister had left the room, ' why do
you let Harriet put upon you as you
do?'

Janet looked up from Harriet's stockings,
which she was darning.

Ob, m}'" dear Clive, I like doing things
for Harriet, of course I do ; it is most important
for her and for all of us that she
should look as nice as possible. And besides,
you know,' sbe added, in a mincing
tone, 'it is a woman's place to deny herself
for other people.'

Clive had an odd smile as he seated 



self at the table, and began idly sketching
with pen and ink upon a sheet of
paper.

I'll tell sou what, Janet, you are just
one of those unselfish persons who are a
perfect curse to a family. By your always
giving up your own wishes and your
own claims, you make the rest of us selfish,
inconsiderate beasts. It is all your own
fault, for being so confoundedly self-denying.'


Here Harriet returned with a piece of
cream-coloured linen in her hand, and
she laid it on the table before her
brother.

There, Clive, now draw me one of your
awfully nice designs, anything you like,
only do it as quickly as you can.'

I don't believe you would know or
care if it was ever so badly done,' he replied,

discontentedly. However, be drew
with pen and ink on the linen rapidly,
boldly, bis delicate fingers never hesitating,
a design of blackberry leaves, blossom,
and fruit; all 'out of bis own bead,'
as bis sisters said ; no model before bim,
but produced from the inexhaustible store
of bis observations of nature. He threw
bis whole heart and soul into bis work,
although it was done for one who had no
eyes to appreciate the beauty of nature or
art, and who wanted only 'something to
wear.'

Harriet sat . in her straight-backed,
ecclesiastical-looking arm-chair, yawning
and turning over the pages of a novel,
too lazy to read it. Janet went on with
her darning, until the tennis-apron should
be ready for her to work upon it. Presently,
her mind still running upon the

party at Morwell Vicarage, Janet said,
meditating,

I wonder what gentlemen there will beat
the Tremaynes.'

For heaven's sake, Janet !' cried Clive,
impatiently, * don't talk like a milliner's
girl ! Why can't you say men T

I was only referring to the gentlemen
we mio'ht meet at Morwell vicarage,' replied
Janet, meekly.

People in society never say *' gentlemen,"
you know that ;' and Clive hastily
dashed away at his design, as if working
off his disgust. ' You should have been
with mo at Princetown the other dav,
when I went into the Duchy hotel to get
some lunch  there were two awful women
there having tea, without an H
between them, two green grocers' wives
out for the day, I should think ; they talked

of some one as a " parfcj " (you'll do that
next, I suppose, Janet), and said at last
they supposed their *' gentlemen " would
be ready for them, and then I saw the
"gentlemen"  oh, Lord !'  Olive's powers
of description failed him here, and he drew
a blackberry spray in silence.

'I don't suppose there will be anybody
at the Tremaynes' but old fogies and dowdy
girls said Harriet. ' I am sure I don't
know why I am taking all this trouble
about the tennis-apron.'

Oh, Harriet, one never knows,' answered
Janet, impressively, 'it is always worth
while to try to look nice. One never
knows. I shall always remember Mrs.
Prior's story of going out to tea at Tavi-
stock  they had evening tea-parties in those
days, you know, when people went at six,
and stayed till twelve, and had music and

round games at cards ; well, you know
Mrs. Prior said she did not expect to meet
auj gentlemen at all but an old general,
and the rector, who had been married a
dozen years  and there, that very evening,
she met Mr. Prior for the first time,
and six weeks afterwards they were
engaged !'

'What would our life be without hope?*
muttered Clive.

'I suppose you are going tomorrow,
Clive?' asked Janet. 'It will be rather
dull for you though, as you are not strong
enough to play tennis.'

'Oh, the " divine Cecilia " is attraction
enough for him,' said Harriet, with a little
toss of her head. * Eealh Clive, I think it
is awfully absurd the wa you and Cecilia
Tremayne go on : why, the last time we
were at Morwell, when there was somebody

interesting there for a wonder, that
Major Darcjfrom PlymouthCecilia talked
to you ten times more than she did to
him.'

It is not for me to find fault with Miss
Tremayne's taste,' answered Clive, drily,
nor for you either, I should think, Harriet,
seeing that Major Darcy was left free to
devote himself to you.'

But the worst of it vas, he didn't. I
suppose he was piqued by Cecilia's not
paying him as much attention as he expected,
for when I tried to make myself
fascinating, he was downright uncivil.
He was awfully good-looking, too, just
the style I admire,' said Harriet, regretfully.


Bah !' exclaimed Clive, kicking the leg
of his table.

Here Mrs. Marsden sailed majestically

into the room. She had just finished her
inorniDg's interview with the cook, and she
carried a bunch of keys in her hand, for
everything in the household at St. Stephen's
Vicarage was kept locked up, from the
wine down to the pins and the postage
stamps.

How do you feel this morning, Clive ?'
she asked ; the tenderest feeling in Mrs,
Marsden's somewhat tough and worldly
heart was kept for her boy.

He answered, a little impatiently,

Oh, I am all right, thank you, mother
To a lad of eighteen, second to the trial of
weak health, is the trial of having it
inquired about.

You will be well enough to go to the
Tremaynes tomorrow, I hope ?'

I was just talking about Cecilia
Tremayne, when you came in, mamma,'

said Harriet. (Clive could not succeed in
teaching his elder sisters to say 'father'
and ' mother,' as it was the correct thins
to do.) ' What an awfully odd girl she
is!'

Girl is hardly a suitable word to apply
to Miss Tremayne,' replied Mrs. Marsden,
loftily, ' I can remember her being grownup
and " come out " when you and Janet
were at school. That is a fact I take care
to let all our friends know. It is not well
to allow a youthful appearance to impose
upon society.'

*Ir she was a dowdy-looking frump, I
could understand it,' resumed Harriet,
but Cecilia dresses well '

'Most extravagantly,' so Mrs. Marsden
interrupted, in a severe tone.

Well, I suppose she can afford it ;
everyone says old Tremayne is awfully

rich. She is not like us poor wretches,
who don't have a new dress once in three
months ; but, all the same, Cecilia is a
regular old maid : never has what I call
fun with gentlemen. If they try to getup
a little flirtation with her, she looks at
them in such a straightforward, cold-blooded
sort of ways which shuts them up,
of course. One would really suppose,
from the way she goes on, that she likes
ladies' society best ! It is no wonder she
is not married.'

'You see the result of Cecilia Tree
opinions, my dears,' said Mrs.
Marsden, ' all her strong-minded, radical
notions. She is perfectly careless what
gentlemen think of her; I have heard her
myself  when some one was running women
down, just as gentlemen icill do sometimes
 I heard her snub the poor man so

that of course he was quite disgusted with
her. And then her independent ways of
going about are so unfeminine, never asking
the advice of a married lady like myself,
but appearing entirely to rely upon
her own judgment.'

Clive did not cry  Fudge !' like the immortal
Mr. Purcell, as a refrain to
his mother's remarks ; but he was obliged
to severely kick the table every minute.

' My dear girls, Cecilia Tremayne is a
warning to you in every respect, and you
ought to be thankful you have had me to
train you for a woman's true sphere of
home. A woman was meant to bo a wife
and mother, not to lead a free and independent
life like Cecilia Tremayne, with
nobody to interfere with her but a poor,
silly old man like her uncle, who lets her
do just what she likes.'

'I am sure, mamma replied Janet,
dutifully, ' you have done sour very best
for us, and I quite agree with what you
say about a woman's highest happiness,
and I am sure I should never think of
differing from a gentleman about anything;
but still you see'  and a little pink
flush came into Janet's modest face  * still
it does not seem to make much difference,
after all.'

Here is the apron.' Clive rose abruptly,
and held out the piece of linen, on
which he had just finished tracing his design.
* You had better take it at once,
one of you, or I shall throw the whole
thing into the fire in another minute.'

The conversation was effectually turned,
and some minutes were taken up with admiring
the pattern, and with the consideration
of the coloured silks to bo used for

embroidering it. A little out of patience
with Janet's slowness in deciding upon the
right colours :

Here,' Clive cried at last, ' give me a
needle and a morsel of that green silk 
that olive shade, don't you see? I will
show you how it ought to be done.'

Olive's long, lithe fingers were just as
deft with a needle as with a brush or
pencil. He was running in the outline of
a blackberry leaf, while his mother and
sisters were interested beholders  not regarding
the apron, as Clive did, as a
work of art, but as an adornment to Harriet,
and therefore a thing of solid, practical
value  when the door opened, and
the vicar of St. Stephen's entered the
room.

CHAPTER VI

F A T H P: R AND SON.

The Reverend Philip Marsden was a little
3ouDger than his wife, but with his scanty
hair, his stooping gait, and the numerous
crows-feet round his dim, near-sighted
eyes, he looked many years her senior.
He was an ambitious man who had been
disappointed, and disappointment bad
soured him for life. For what was the
good of having been a Scholar of his
college, what was the good of his prizes,
bis honours, his hard work, and the

golden opinions of his tutors  if it all
ended in a little village in a hollow of
Dartmoor, and four hundred pounds per
annum ?

His first disappointment  the first check
in his brilliant career  was his failure
(always unaccountable to himself) in getting
a fellowship. He had married a
woman with a little money, but though
she had made him an excellent wife, managing
his household and his own peevish
temper with praiseworthy skill, he had
never loved her. He had declined the
offer of a living in his younger days,
because he had thought its value unequal
to his merits ; and in the end he had had
to put up with a much inferior one. As
for his children  he looked from one to
the other, with mingled disgust, anger,
and despair. It was all very well in his

VOL. I. H

sermons to preach submission to the will
of Providence, buff in his secret heart he
considered that Providence had behaved
scandalously to a man of his attainments.

Clive, are you there ?' demanded his
father, in a querulous tone.

The son reddened a little, and threw his
work into Janet's lap as Mr. Marsden's
near-sighted eyes peered at him. But it
was too late. The vicar had mounted a
pair of gold eye-glasses on his nose.

'Ugh!' he ejaculated in disgust, 'Hercules
amongst the women, only he is not
Hercules, but emphatically the reverse.
You have been idle the whole of this week ;
are you aware of that fact ?'

It's not my fault,' muttered Clive.

The whole expression of the boy's face
changed as his father addressed him. His

brow clouded, and he compressed his lips
doggedly, as if he was determined not to be
irritated into making any reply.

Well, whether it is your fault or not,
it is very much my misfortune to have an
only son unable to work, always ailing,
never out of the doctor's hands for more
than a week or two together. I was a
scholar of Oriel by the time I was your
age, and my ambition has always been
that my son should distinguish himself at
Oxford. But Heaven knows! what with
one thing and another, my ambition is
pretty well crushed out of me. Well, will
you come into my study, and try to do a
little Homer this morning ?'

I will try,' answered Olive, gloomily.

I don't know what is to become of you
in the future; how you are going to earn

II 2

your living, such an invalid as you are
was the vicar's remark, as he preceded his
son into his study.

It was not very cheering to Olive's
spirits  depressed as they usually were
from long-continued physical weakness,
and enforced abstinence from study and
play, and all a boy's ordinary pursuits  it
was not very cheering to feel that his
father looked upon him in some way as a
culprit, as though he were morally responsible
for the lack of health which robbed
his young life of all brightness.

Was it Olive's fault that he could not
drive an hour's attention to Greek or
mathematics without its bringing on a
headache which almost blinded him? did
he like to be ignorant of things which all
gentlemen's sons knew at his age ? was it
pleasant to know that as he had lost all

chance of going to a public school in the
past, so he had no hope of going to Oxford
in the future, no prospect of anything but
being a burden to his family all his life ?
Mr. Marsden would return no direct
answer to Olive's passionate inquiries, but
went on sfrumblinor at his own sad case in
having a son who would never be a credit
to him in any way.

In truth, Mr. Marsden had no one but
himself to blame for his son's ill-health.
As soon as Olive was born, the vicar, who
had been lamenting bis unhappy fate at
being the father of three members of the
useless and redundant sex (there was a good
deal to be said in favour of the nations
who practised female infanticide, so he
thought), the vicar hailed the coming of
the long delayed heir to his university
honours. Olive was to carry on the

scholarly traditions of the Marsden family
and his father insisted on teaching him the
Latin grammar as soon as he knew his
letters. Clive was to get a scholarship fora
great public school, and then in after
years one for the university, as his father
had done before him ; and, for this end, Mr.
Marsden determined to prepare the boy
himself.

They don't make little boys work at
preparatory schools,' said the vicar, ' T
will show him the way to succeed.' And
the end of it was  just at the age when
Clive should have gone to that public-school
which his father destined for him 
the over-taxed brain, which Nature meant
for an artist's, and not a scholar's, the
over-taxed brain gave way ; and Clive
went to death's door instead.

When the vicar entered his study with

his son, be found bis youngest daughter,
Lina, standing before this book-case, with
a volume in her band in which she was
apparently absorbed. She was a fair and
slender girl of twenty, with something in
her frank, sweet, thoughtful face which
reminded one of the portrait of Lady Jane
Grey in the Bodleian Library. It is a type
of face becoming much more frequent
amongst young English womanhood.

What do you want in my study, Lina?'
asked the vicar, peevishly. * I hate to see
a girl of your age pottering about amongst
books like an old blue-stocking.'

Have you any objection to my borrowing
this for a few days, father ? I will take
great care of it.'

Mr. Marsden put on his glasses, and
peered at the book his daughter held out
to him. It was Plato's Republic in the

original Greek. He uttered an exclamation
of disgust, and let his glasses
drop.

Certainly not ; if you icill meddle with
Greek, you must get books for yourself.
I am not going to encourage you in your
foolish pedantry. Come, Lina, leave ray
study if you please, it is no place for girls.
Clive and I have work to do ; that is, if I
can get him to do an hour's work without
taking to his bed after it.'

Lina said no more ; but, as she left the
study, she and her brother exchanged a
look which meant perfect understanding of
the irony of each other's fate.

For alas for nature's law of inheritance !
Intellect is not always entailed in the male
line. The father's capacity for scholarship
had descended to his daughter, not to his
son.

As Lina went into the dining-room, she
heard Janet say, plaintively,

I do wish papa would leave poor Clive
alone. He has been a little better the last
few days, and now that horrid Greek, or
whatever it is he has to do, will make him
s ill as ever again.'

It is perfectly useless bothering the
poor boy ; i he can't study, it is not his
fault,' added Harriet, who, like her sisters,
was very fond of Clive ; though she looked
upon him as a poor specimen of the male
sex. 'A man is nothias if he is not
strong,' she thought ; her ideal hero being
a mixture of a soldier and a prize-fighter.

As for wanting an ornament to the
family,' Harriet went on, ' here is Lina.
I am sure she ought to satisfy papa, withall
her learning and certificates and
things.'

Lina smiled.

I am afraid that my having learnt anything
is as much a grievance as Olive's not
having learnt it. Father refused to lend
me a book of his just now. I daresay Mr.
Tremayne has it. I must try to get it from
Cecilia.'

And quite right of your papa,' replied
Mrs. Marsden, sharply. * We shall both of
us do all we can to discourage your ridiculous
notions. The idea of a girl of your
age setting up to be learned ! It is all
ver" well for poor young women who are
obliged to be governesses ; but yoii Lina,
injuring all your prospects 1 No gentleman
will look at a girl if he suspects she
is a blue-stocking;. I declare I don't know
what will become of you !' and Mrs. Mars-den
was moved almost to tears.

For it was the bitterest drop in the

mother's cup, that Lina, the jouDgest and
prettiest of her daughters, should have
taken an independent line  one absolutely
fatal (so Mrs. Marsden thought) to every
chance of her marriage. When Lina was
at school, she had gone in for a local
university examination. Her name had
appeared in the first class, and then, as
Mrs. Marsden bitterly lamented, the mischief
was done. As soon as she had left
school, she announced her intention of
becoming a mistress at a girls' High School,
or, failing that, the mistress of a village
school ; for stay at home in idleness on a
narrow income, she would not. Her
parents were furious, and forbade her ever
to mention the subject again.

Very well,' answered Lina, calmly, ' I
shall require the next two years for study.
When I am one-and-twenty I sliJiU be

legally free to maintain myself. I am not
going to be a burden on my family all my
days.'

A burden on your family !' cried Mrs.
Marsden  ' of course you need never be
that, you with your good looks ! if only
you will not spoil your eyes with poring
over books, and frighten all the gentlemen
away with your learning. Why  Oh, why
are you not like other girls ?' so her
mother bitterly moaned.

Here was Harriet nine-and-twenty, losing
her complexion and becoming ' loud '
in manner, and Janet growing more precise
and dull and old-maidish every day 
neither of them had had the ghost of an
offer of marriage ! Whilst Lina, so pretty
sand graceful and only twenty must marry ;
if she did not ruin all her mother's hopes
by turning governess.

She mifyht as well be a hud,' sobbed
Mrs. Marsden ; better, io fact, for then
she would be buried and out of the way,
and the world would not know that she
had a daughter who did the terrible thin
of earnings her livelihood.

But to Harriet and Janet it was a matter
of some satisfaction that the pretty younger
sister had no wish to enter into competition
with them, but had widely differing
aims and interests of her own.

It is incomprehensible to me,' said
Lina, ' how any woman can wish to marry,
for marrying's sake. To any healthy-minded
girl, the thought of love and marriage,
and all the rest of it, is naturally distasteful
; and nothing reconciles her to it, but
caring very much for some individual man.
But to hear you two talk about '' gentlemen,"
as you call them, and study how to

please them, and how to make them admire
you  to me it is simply revolting.'

At which Harriet and Janet ' stared
with great eyes, and laughed with alien
lips.'

Oh, yes,' said they, ' it is all very well
talking like that now, but you would not
like being an old maid any better than the
rest of us.'

If I have plenty to do, and earn plenty
of money, I shall very much like being an
old maid,' replied Lina, serenely. ' It is
only idle, depressed, poverty-stricken
women who are looked down upon.'

'Well, I must say,' Harriet answered,
That I think it is an awfully good plan of
yours, Lina, for really there is not enough
money here for all of us to dress well and
go to parties, and it is not pleasant forme
to have two younger sisters out.'

Harriet, though she was the fine lady of
the family, and did not feel herself called
upon to toil or spin in the household, had
some amount of practical good sense,
especially where her own interests were
involved ; whilst Janet, who was ' domesticated,'
and who prided herself on her sewing
and cooking, was in reality as sentimental
as the heroine of an old-fashioned
novel.

So she said,

Oh yes, Harriet dear, but then think
of Lina leaving the shelter of her home,
and going out into the world alone and
unprotected ; think what harsh treatment
she may meet with !'

Lina laughed a little bitterly.

I'll bet you anything that I shall never
meet with harsher treatment from the
world than I do from my father.'

At that moment the study door opened,
and Mr. Marsden's voice was beard sayings
irritably,

Well, then, go  go back to your drawing
or needlework, or whatever rubbish it
is ; I give up the whole thing in despair.*

Clive did not return to the dining-room,
but slowly ascended the stairs to his bedroom.
He threw himself into a chair, and
pressed his hands against his throbbing
forehead. What was life worth to him,
when an hour's work at Greek made his
head feel as though it was bound with
crushing bands of iron? He was fairly
well out of doors, quietly watching the
ever-changing face of nature, and the ways
of birds and insects; he could paint and
design and even read some kind of books
without much fatigue. But this was just
what peculiarly irritated Mr. Marsden.

Clive must be in fault, thought his father,
he must be idle and fanciful and self-indulgent,
if art and poetry and popular science
did not make this head ache, and Greek and
Latin and mathematics did.

So while Clive lay in a half-stupor, and
wished he was dead and out of a world
where he was no use, and no credit to his
father or himself  Mr. Marsden felt on
his side that life bad dealt very hardly v/ith
him. His wife was plain and uninteresting,
his elder daughters were becoming old
maids, his youngest was a thorn in his
flesh, with her independent airs and her
assumption of scholarship  which unfortunately
was only too well-founded, and,
worst of all, his only son was a miserable
failure.

It was the vicar's secret and ever present
regret, that years ago he had not joined

VOL. T. I

the Church of Rome. He was no Ritualist,
the latest school of Americans was too
emotional and insubordinate for his taste ;
Mr. Marsden was rather one of the
Tractarians ' of the last generation, who
reverenced their bishops and obeyed the
Prayer-book.

The Latin branch of the Church
Catholic, has wisely forbidden priests to
marry,' so he thought, ' whilst an Anglican,
especially in a country parish, is as much
expected by society to take a wife, as if he
were a family doctor.' And he sighed as he
remembered that he might have been free
from all his sordid worries, he might have
been endowed with an authority grandly
historic and consecrated, instead of leonora
mere country parson  a position homely,
half-secular, yet not so dignified as that of
a squire  he might have been free from

wife and children, if only some thirty
years ago he had taken the step which is
commonly called 'going over to Rome.'

CHAPTER VII.

k TELEGRAM.

It was one of those autumn days when
it seems always afternoon.' The sun
is low, and the shadows are long, even at
noonday ; and the very air appears a golden
haze.

The intense calm, broken only by the
song of robins, and the faint patter of
falling leaves, had in it something of a
peaceful waiting for death. Everywhere
there was a hectic flush of colour, a mellow
ripeness, which was very near decay.

At Morwell Vicarage that afternoon,
Cecilia Tremayne was giving her last
garden-party for the season. She was
standing on her smooth-shaven lawn,
amidst beds of scarlet geraniums and
purple pecunia, still arrayed in all their
glory, with a background of tall sunflowers,
flame-coloured dahlias, and white marguerites
; and she was dressed in a gown of
soft cream-coloured silk, with a bunch of
tea-roses, with glossy brown leaves
just plucked from the garden  at
her neck, and in her broad, black lace
hat.

There was a group of basket chairs
around her, and little rustic tables for
holding tea-cups; and a few rich and dusky-heed
oriental rugs were spread on the
grass, so that the seniors of the party
might not be fidgety about damp feet.

Cecilia had had everything; arranged under
her own eyes, and had superintended the
marking of the tennis-courts, and the
hanging of the nets, on another lawn,
separated from the flower-garden by a
gravel walk and a group of evergreens.
When everything was ready for the
expected guests, when everything had been
thought about, and seen to, and arranged,
and nothing remained to be done  then
Mr. Tremayne, faultless' attired, the
clerical black, which he forced himself to
don upon these occasions, setting off his
silver hair and pale, fine features, Mr,
Tremayne with his air of aristocratic
repose, appeared upon the scene.

sly dear Cecilia, where have you hidden
yourself since lunch ? I have been making
a study of that charming bit of colour in

those beech-trees which I see from my
study windows. I think I have been pretty
successful, and I wanted to show you my
little sketch.'

'I shall be delighted to see it tomorrow,
uncle, but this afternoon I have to see
that everything was correctly arranged.
You know that the servants  as you often
say  have no eyes, and I am sure you
would not have liked the effect if I had left
the placing of those rugs and chairs and
tables entirely to them.'

Ah, very true, my dear, still I don't
like to see jou, with your fine taste,
troubled about such sordid little things.'

Cecilia smiled.

Why, you know, when I am at home, I
am generally a regular Martha, "cumbered
about much serving." I often wish that

you and I had no vicarage to tie us down,
but that we were free to wander all over
the world.'

 Bad form, Cecilia,' and Mr. Tremajne
winced as if he had heard a discordant
musical note, * distinctly bad form to quote
Scripture.'
* Poor dear uncle,' thought his niece,

he hates the sound of Bible or Prayer-book,
as an aspirant grocer hates the sound
of the shop. Would he ever forgive
me for the vulgarity of my comparison, I
wonder ?'

There is one thing she said aloud,

that my domestic experience has taught
me  there is no more stupid blinder than
to suppose that a good education spoils
servants. When they are taught to think,
to use their eyes, to see the common sense
of things, does it not stand to reason that

they will do their work far better? "Mix
your colours with brains," Sir Joshua
Reynolds said. I am sure a servant ought
to cook, and wait at table, and dust a room
*' with brains." *

But Mr. Tremayne held the common
idea of his class, that ignorance is the solid
support of law, order, and morality, and
that the only way to keep the poor submissive
 is to prevent their learning how
to rise.

Here a pony-carriage, stuffed with ladies,
drove up the avenue towards the vicarage.
These people were Mrs. Prior the doctor's
wife, and her daughters, stolid specimens
of decorous ladyhood. They were followed
by Mrs. Marsden, her three daughters and
her son ; and other guests speedily began
to arrive.

Cecilia received them all with her serene

graciousness, but there was a peculiar
brightness in her smile as she welcomed
the two younger members of the Marsden
family. Lina she heartily respected and
admired, the girl of twenty had won
prizes in life that she herself could not
aspire to. For Cecilia had no aptitude
for the studies which bring distinction.
She had plenty of imagination and
literary taste ; she could passionately appreciate
the ' Antigone,' in our English translation,
but she could not have construed
a line of Greek to save her life. She was
logical and clear-headed in everj-day life,
yet she was hopelessly bewildered by a sum
in algebra. She was ignorant and uneducated
as compared with Lina ; and yet
the elder woman's mind was full of orioriDal
and independent thoughts, and observations

of many tidings  birds and flowers,.
and trees and minerals, and all kinds of
weather wisdom  which she seemed to
know and understand, as if she had secret
relations with the world of nature.

As for Clive, Cecilia loved him with a
motherly and protecting fondness, compassionate
his weak health and his early
sufferings and disappointments. Cecilia's
graceful figure, her gentle ways, her perfect
taste, were a never-ending delight to
Clive's fastidious eyes ; and she had such
thorough understanding of this peculiar
trials, such sympathy with his love of all
beauty in nature and art, that their hearts
seem to beat in as perfect unison as if they
were indeed the lovers it was Harriet's
foolish joy to call them.

Mr. Tremayne had always a kind 

for Clive, whose artistic powers be
admired, and whom he grieved over as not
being appreciated by his father.

If Clive were my son, I should be proud
of him,' thought the vicar.

In all probability", he would have been
nothing of the sort. The common idea is,
that parents are blind to their children's
faults, but it is nearer the truth to say
that people in general are as dissatisfied
with their children, as they are with most
of the gifts which Providence is supposed
to send them.

But Mr. Tremayne had little liking for
the rest of the Marsden family If he
had ever read such a ' Dissenting ' book as
the pilgrim's Progress,' he might have
applied to Lina, Mr. Brisk's description of
Mercy : ' A pretty lass, but troubled with ill
conditions.' As for Janet, a vague and

dreadful suspicion bad once crossed the
vicar's mind  that she considered herself
eminently suited to become the wife of an
elderly country clergyman; and from that
time forward he found even Harriet less
repulsive, although her ' style ' set his teeth
on edge.

In a sympathetic observer, poor Janet
would that day have aroused some kindly
pity. It was really touching to see her;
the neat sage-green gown which she
thought so aesthetic, and which was merely
hideously unbecoming to her sallow
complexion  the gown over which she had
slaved so many weary days, every stitch of
it put in by her own deft fingers; the
bunch of pink roses and maiden-hair ferns
carefully pinned on her left shoulder ; the
modest anxiety to ' look nice,' and the meek
hope  hope so often and so often deferred

that there would be Somebody at this
hearty who would prove her fate.

Poor little Janet! martyr to society,
which educates girls to be wives and
mothers, and then provides just a million
too few husbands and fathers  which holds
up the domestic sphere as the only one
allowed to properly conducted young
ladies, and then not only fails to enable
forty per cent, of them to fill that sphere,
but sneers at those who take active steps
to secure the partner absolutely necessary
for carrying on the business of their lives.
People might laugh at Janet's piteous
search for a lover  but had she not been
brought up, as millions of girls are brought
up, to consider marriage as the object of a
woman's existence, and why blame her for
doing her utmost to fulfil the end of her
creation ? Husband-hunting is odious,

very true ; but there is an old nursery
rhyme which says,

How can he marry without e'er a wife ?'

And if Osiris are to be taught that marriage
is their sole vocation, they may
reasonably reply,

How can I marry without ear a husband ?'

Cecilia Tremayne did her best to provide
some unmarried men for her parties, just
as she took pains to provide her guests
with the choicer sorts of fruit. But there
was often a little difficulty about it ; sometimes
she managed to secure a few officers
from Plymouth, and was lucky with her
grapes and peaches ; sometimes her young
lady visitors had to put up with a curate
or two, and a country doctor, as well as
the poorly-flavoured apples and pears of
the district.

This afternoon proved to be one of
Cecilia's social successes. There were
enoii2fh V0UU2: men in white flannels and
girls in pretty frocks,, for three games of
tennis to be played at once. Harriet and
Janet Marsden were peculiarly blessed,
for Cecilia had found a fat officer and a
consumptive curate, who, not being tennis-players,
condescended to join them in the
almost obsolete game of croquet. Mrs,
Marsden and Mrs. Prior were equally
happy, gossiping about the iniquities of
their respective servants. Mr. Tremayne,
Cecilia, and Clive sat in basket-chairs
beneath a great walnut-tree, whose arms
spread a breadth of shadow across the
smooth and mossy lawn.

It was a pretty scene ; the tennis-players
springing about in graceful attitudes, the
white and pink and other delicately-hued

costumes glancing in the sunlight, with
the dark evergreens and the crimsons and
purples of the flower-beds as a contrast.
Mr. Tremayne lounged in his comfortable
chair, his white hands loosely folded, a
peaceful smile just parting his chiselled
lips, and beaming from his half-closed eyes.
He had a languid enjoyment of the mellow
sunshine, the long afternoon shadows on
the lawn, the rich autumnal colouring,
which resembled that of ripe fruit ; the
russet, golden foliage like pears and apples,
the distant hills glowing with the purple
bloom of plums. The voices of the tennis-players
were too distant to disturb the
vicar, and there were graceful forms
amongst them not unworthy his occasional
glance.

Cecilia, who had given her Avhole mind
that morning to the varied, petty details

VOL. I. K

which harass every mistress of a household
who has, like her, a passion for perfection ;
who had striven in many unseen, arduous
ways to make the party a pleasant one,
knew it was so far a success, and then as
was her wont, instead of being triumphant,
she felt bored to death. She would
spend the whole energy of ber nature in
trying to attain her ideal in all her household
arrangements ; then, as soon as she
knew she had reached it as nearly as was
possible to mortal woman, disgust and
weariness with the world  which required
so much, and which gave so little in return
seized upon her. How she wished they
were all away, these uninteresting guests,
and she was sittings under the walnut-tree
with Clive Marsden. She wanted only
Kathleen Rivers to round her social world,
and Kathleen, she knew, would be here

presently ; she was always a little punctual.


What a pity you cannot play tennis,
instead of sitting here with us old people
said Cecilia, looking with a motherly tenderness
at the pale boy with his long,
slender limbs reclining in the chair by her
side.

His face had a drawn, suffering look ;
yet he smiled brightly at her with a soit of
gratitude that for once he was allowed to
remain quiet  that no one was urging him
to exert himself  which was very touching.

Cecilia felt she had been selfishly glad
to have him with her, it was not natural
that he should be content with the companionship
of a woman of her age, and so
she said,

*I wish you could play tennis with the
others.'

K "2

When one can't do a thing, one ceases
to wish to do it, I think,' answered Clive.
But why don't you play, Cecilia ?'

M! no, thank you,' she replied, smiling.
I am only too glad to rest. Presently
they will want tea, and I shall have to work
hard again. Why is the world so exacting
why is life not simpler  why must we
have so many courses at dinner, so much
useless furniture about our houses  such
endless trouble about our dress ?'

Yes, and with all this bother about unnecessary
things there is so little beauty
and so little pleasure in our lives,' said
Clive. 'People spend a lot of money on
their houses, and the result is generally
hideous ; and we are, most of us, too tired
with struggling to do the useless things
society makes us do, to be able to enjoy
any real pleasure when it comes.'

I wish you could go to Switzerland
with us some day ; there one gets an idea
of how simple .life might be made. A
house built all of wood, with those charming
carved balconies, not a carpet on any
floor, the furniture all of white unvarnished
pine, simple food, simple style of dress, no
court, no aristocracy, all the grandeur
belongs to nature  mountains, glaciers, and
forests.'

'A poor fellow like myself, who only
wants to be an artist, might be happy there
no doubt  but do you think you would be,
Cecilia? you, with your love of politics
and your interest in all the questions of
the day ?'

Ah, Clive,' she answered, smiling a little
sadly, ' that is just the never-ceasing worry
of my life. Some ancestor of mine must
have had a passion for political life, and

some other ancestor an equally strong
passion for nature and wild country life.
So you see I am never satisfied, my inherited
tastes tear me in two ; one half oE me
would always drag me to London, into the
thick of parliamentary strife ; and the other
half would drag me to the moors or the
glaciers or the sea-shore. I believe most
of our mental and moral struggles come
from the conflicting inherited tendencies
wee owe to widely differing ancestors.'

Perhaps that is the reason why you are
such a ferocious democrat in your opinions,
and an equally fastidious aristocrat in your
tastes,' said Clive. ' Perhaps you are descended
from a Cavalier on one side, and a
Puritan on the other. But after all, this sort
of thing is very much complicated by one's
bringing up, and one's surroundings. One

inherited side or the other is sure to e:et a
better chance of developing.'

So you see we get back to the two
great laws, the law of inheritance and the
law of adaptability  the conservative, and
the progressive order of things. I am
afraid,' Cecilia added, smilingly, ' if we
pursue this subject any further, we shall
get down to the foundation of all
controversies : Free-will and Predestination
'

Cecilia paused ; she saw Mrs. Rivers
coming across the lawn, towards the .
Kathleen was dressed in olive
green velvet, with a silver clasp of old
disagree work at her waist-belt, and a
kerchief of old Mechlin lace round her
white throat. A broad hat and plumes,
olive green like her gown, shaded her

brilliant complexion and curling grey hair;
she looked as if she had just stepped out
fcf one of Gainsborough's pictures.

Mr. Tremayne was aroused and animated
in an instant. He admired no other
woman in the world as much as he did
Kathleen Rivers. Her grace and beauty
and sweetness, with a certain air about
her of London society, were a delight to
him. He honored the fact that she was an
Irishwoman, and he shut his ears to hints
that she was mixed up with some dangerous
and seditious people. Her husband
was said to be respected by all parties for
his independence and disinterestedness; he
seldom spoke in the House, but when he
did, he was listened to, and was reported
in the morning papers  and Mr. Tremayne
found it convenient to forget that Eccleston
Rivers, M.P., was also said to be one of

the most pestilent Radicals who ever sat
below the gangway.

I admire Mr. Tremayne so much,' Mrs.
Kivers had once remarked to Cecilia. ' He
is a perfect type of your English country
parson. There is blue blood in his veins,
all his traditions and his instincts are of
the aristocracy. No wonder that feudalism
is still so powerful in England when the
Church is the bulwark of your land system,
and your pastors are hand in glove with
your masters. In Ireland, you know, our
priests are most of them men of the people,
mere peasants' sons sometimes ; and so they
still believe in " Blessed are the poor"  
and religion with us means what you
English call revolution.'

Cecilia had not seen her friend since the
day they had driven together to Prince-town.
Kathleen was as cheerful, as self-possessed,

as* if slid had never sobbed in
cigouy on that bleak moorland road, had
never gazed with eyes full of passionate
anguish at that convict in his grey uniform
working like a slave under the ees of the
slave-driver. The double life which Kathleen
Rivers led, was like the hair-shirt and
the torturing iron cross v/orn beneath fine
linen and gorgeous brocade, as one reads in
mediaeval story.

The blood rushed into Cecilia's face,
and her eyes met Kathleen's, with eloquent
silent sympathy. Kathleen clasped her
friend's hand tightly  perhaps there was
something of warning in the pressure, for
Cecilia looked almost overcome with
emotion in the first moment of their meeting
; but Mrs. Rivers, as she said of herself,
whatever she suffered, ' set her face
like a flint' to the outer world.

An hour afterwards, the tennis-players
were surrounding the little tea-tables on
the lawn. There was a pleasant ripple of
voices and laughter, and tinkle of teacups.
Cecilia, as hostess, was passing from
one group to another  exerting herself to
be entertaining, and to accomplish much
small talk  when she suddenly caught
sight of a telegraph-boy coming across the
lawn.

Few country dwellers are quite hardened
to the sight of such an apparition as this ;
telegrams are too often to ordinary,
non-business folk like the scroll which the
prophet saw, inscribed with ' lamentation,
mourning, and woe.' Cecilia held her
breath for a moment as she watched the
messenger look from one group of her
guests to another, and then thread his
way amongst the little crowd, to where

Mrs. Rivers was sitting beside the vicar.

The boy held out the telegram,
saying,

If you please, ma'am, sour servant told
me I should find you here.'

Mrs. Rivers took it nonchalantly ; these
orange-coloured missives were as common
in her house as tradesmen's circulars.
Electricity was one of her husband's
hobbies, and he never wrote a letter when
a telegram would serve as well.

But Cecilia watched intently the expression
of her friend's face as she unfolded
the enclosed pink paper. She saw Kathleen
quiver as with a sudden shock, she
saw the bright colour fade out of Kathleen's
face until it left her deadly pale,
she saw Kathleen's bright blue eyes dilate
with a strange, unearthly expression.
For two or three minutes Mrs. Rivers did

not move or speak, lie sat gazing at the
telegram  then with one deep breath she
roused herself, and very deliberately she
folded up the paper, and put it in her
pocket.

I trust you have not had bad news ?' said
Mr. Tremayne, courteously.

']o, not at all, thank you,' was her perfectly
calm answer. * How beautiful your
flowers are still, although the summer is
over. I always say that horticulture
in England owes so much to the country
clerofv.'

Mr. Tremayne complacently accepted the
compliment. He never took any trouble
about his garden, Cecilia did that for him.
It was Cecilia who struggled with the surly
old gardener, who had not an idea beyond
making flower-beds resemble oil-cloth, with
geometrical patterns and harshly contrasted

colours of scarlet geraniums, yellow
cancellaria and blue lobelia ; it was Cecilia
who insisted upon having in her garden
borders, bolls-hocks and sunflowers, sweet
peas and clove carnations, and a hundred
other old-fashioned flowers. But the fact
that the vicar had a high ideal of what a
garden should be, and that he was quite
ready with complaints if his garden did
not come up to that ideal, was quite
enough, so he thought, to establish his
claim to be a benefactor to the flower
kingdom.

Mrs. Rivers could not quite keep up her
rigid self-repression. She looked towards
Cecilia, and the two women's eves met.
Cecilia thrilled all over beneath Kathleen's
intense gaze ; people looked like that,
she thought, when they were near death,
and were supposed to see straight into
another world. Still the two friends could

not exchange a word, each was surrounded
by a little oroup of chattering, laughing
young people, many of whom had never
thought one earnest thought, or felt one
deep emotion in their lives ; and Cecilia
suffered a sort of torture as she tried to
smile and talk and make herself agreeable.

At last Mrs. Rivers and Cecilia met.

What is it ?' asked the latter, breathlessly,
' I am frightened about you, you looked
like death '

'Sto,' replied Mrs. Rivers, in a low tone
of solemn, impassioned triumph, ' it is
not death, but  resurrection ! Read that,'
and she placed the telegram in Cecilia's
hand.

From Maurice 0' Donovan, Dartmoor Prison,
To Mrs. Rivers Moriuell Lodge.

/ Jive been released to-day upon certain
conditions. I lull he with you bj/ seven o'clock
this evenings

Cecilia could hardly restrain an outcry.


Hush,' whispered Kathleen, grasping
her hand tightly. * Now, I must go home
at once. Make some excuse for me to
sour uncle. I see he is talking to Mr.
Marsden, who has just come. Good-bye,
my dear Cecilia, you shall hear from me
very soon.'

CHAPTER Viii.

VANITY AND VEXATION OF SPIRIT.

Two clergymen of the Church of England
never hated each other more cordially than
did the Reverends Reginald Tremayne
and Philip Marsden. The latter looked
upon the vicar of Morwell with half-envy,
half-contempt  envy of his luxurious
home, his life of ease and leisure, and
freedom from all ecclesiastical domestic
ties (for even a Roman priest might have
a niece or sister as his housekeeper)

VOL. I. L

contempt for the thorough secularity
of his ideals, his manners, and his tone oE
thought.

Mr. Marsden was a hard-working, conscientious
man. He did his duty, not only
in the amount of services he got through
in his parish church, and in the inconveniently
early hours at which most of them
were held, but he strenuously visited the
houses of his parishioners, and allowed the
Dissenters among them no quarter, but
made their cottage roofs resound with his
denunciations of schism. And yet, though
he often denied himself, and went without,
not only a new coat, but a new theological
book, in order to give away money when
there was long continued sickness or want
of work amongst the poorest of his flock
Mr. Marsden knew he was not half so
popular at St. Stephen's as easy-going,

worldly-minded Mr. Tremayne was at
Morwell.

On his side, Reginald Tremayne said,
languidly,

What a fatiguing, ill-bred man Mars-den
is ! To take a lofty view of sacerdotal
functions is all very well, but surely
a man may be a gentleman before he is a
priest. And really  though he would be
ready to prosecute me for libel for saying
so  with all his Anglican views, he has
just the sourness and narrow-mindedness
of a true Puritan. That peculiar sort of
temperament often survives, when the
opinions which historically belong to it
are dead and buried.'

Mr. Marsden came like a chill shadow
upon the moderate amount of enjoyment
which his family had managed to extract
from this little garden-party. His wife

l2

looked up from her gossip with Mrs. Prior
to see him frowning at his watch, then
peering about for his daughters. Clive had
shrunk away down a shrubbery path the
moment his father came in view.

I know, dear,' said Mrs. Marsden, in
her husband's ear   that it is time to go,
but the girls are enjoying themselves so
much, it seems a pity to disturb them.
Lina plays tennis very well, it is the only
sensible thing she does ; see, she is really
looking very pretty, and that is young
Ridgeway, the rich lawyer's son, playing on
the same side, and Harriet and Janet are
getting on very well too.*

It is precisely three minutes to six,'
said Mr. Marsden, in his rigid sort of way.
*1 said this morning that you were to
leave at six.'

Mrs. Marsden stifled an impatient little

sigh. Her powers of ' management ' never
deserted her, and she thought : ' It is
only a foolish woman who opposes a man 
a wise one can always circumvent him.'

Very well,' said she, ' I will go and
look for the girls at once. Just say a few
words to Mrs. Prior, will you, dear ? We
will be ready to start in another moment.'

The careful mother sailed along the
garden in a direction exactly opposite to
where she knew her daughters were to be
found, leaving Mrs. Prior  who was High
Church, and who often complained that
she felt absolutely starved in her own
parish church  to look up with a sweet,
reverential gaze into the face of the
Eeverend Philip Marsden. Her talk
soothed him, and, woman-hater though
he was, wiled away the time, as Mrs.
Marsden had foreseen.

If no man is a hero to bis valet, still less
is he a priest to him. Mr. Marsden was a
gloomy, cantankerous sort of husband and
father to his own family, but he was a
successor of the apostles' to the doctor's
wife, and the mere consciousness of this
fact made him forget that he was being
kept waiting for the end of a game of
tennis.

As they talked, Mr. Marsden and Mrs.
Prior began to saunter along one of the
secluded shrubbery paths. Mrs Prior was
enthusiastic in her praises of the decorations
of St. Stephen's Church, at the
late harvest festival, which she had been
privileged to attend.

The grapes and melons and apples were
truly superb. The only thing that occurred
to me  may I mention it to you ?' asked
Mrs. Prior, a little timidly. ' Are apples

quite  quite worthy to adorn a holy place ?
They are so associated with the fall of man,
you know, the temptation in the garden of
Eden.'

Was it an apple ?' replied Mr. Mars-den,
absently.

To be sure, now one comes to think of
it  does the book of Genesis mention any
particular kind of fruit ?'

At that moment Mr. Marsden came unexpectedly
in sight of his son, who was
sitting alone on a garden seat, with his
eyes cast down, a weary, dejected look on
his pale face.

Ah, Mrs. Prior,' said the vicar of St.
Stephen's, answering his own bitter
thoughts instead of her wanderings, you
talk of the elevating influences of the
festivals of our Church, you little know
how much there is in the daily domestic

life of an Anglican priest to dim the
spiritual vision, and to drag him down to
earth

Clive started nervously as he saw his
father. He had an instinct that he should
receive an unpleasant greeting, and he was
not mistaken.

Ashy are you sitting moping here by
yourself?' asked Mr. Marsden, in his irritable
way. ' Why don't you go and play
tennis with the other young folk?'

Clive reddened a little, and remained
silent. It was too humiliating to give 
especially in the presence of a third person
 the true answer to his father's
question 

Because my doctor has forbidden me
to play tennis.'

I suppose you think it beneath your
dignity to play games, but it looks very

r

much like ill-temper,' remarked Mr. Marsdeu,
as he passed on.

'Your son paints beautifully, I am told.'
So Mrs. Prior made a feeble effort to make
things pleasant.

He fancies himself an artist, just as he
fancies himself an invalid. A little less
imagination and a little more perseverance,
would be more useful in everyday life,' said
Mr. Marsden, in a tone distinct enough to
reach his son's ears.

But your sweet daughter Lina,' the
doctor's wife persisted, in her weak and
well-meant attempts to soothe Mr.
Marsden  ' she at all events will do you
credit. I hear the most wonderful accounts
of her cleverness. I am told she has passed
the most difficult examination  Oxford
something, I forget what  but it was quite
marvellous for a iirl.'

'Pray spare me, Mrs. Prior;' and he
shrugged his shoulders. ' Lina's success,
as you call it, is one of the troubles of my
life. She came under the most unfortunate
influences whilst she was at school, and
now I dread that she will become one of
those pedantic, strong-minded, godless
women, who are the curse of these modern
days. She is a girl of the period, 1 fear,
though not in the Saturday Review s meaning
of the term. Oh, for the age of faith,
when all women were under the rule of the
Church, either fulfilling one end of a
woman's creation as wives of the laity, or
leading still higher lives in the absolute
seclusion of religious houses !'

I am told,' answered Mrs. Prior, ' that
they manage things very differently across
the Channel. An old maid is seldom seen
in French society. If girls don't marry,

they go into convents, and there is an end
of them.'

Ah, the Latin branch of the Church
Catholic is in many things wiser than weare,'
returned the Anglican vicar,
savagely.

Poor dear Mr. Marsden,' thought Mrs.
Prior, with that disloyalty to her own sex,
which feeble-minded women think politic
'I am afraid his wife and daughters don't
appreciate the peculiar saintliness and
elevation of his character.'

Meantime Clive sat where his father
had left him, his head dizzy, his heart
throbbing with the passion of rage and
misery which possessed him. To feel constant
weariness and discomfort, so that
living was a fatigue ; to be denied both
the work and the play of his own age and
kind ; to be forced this very afternoon to

Remain apart from the life and fan going
on around him, and then to be taunted
by bis own father for being idle and
fanciful !

'What can I do  what is to become of
me ?' he asked himself. ' If I could only
get away from home  could only earn just
enough to keep myself alive (not that I
care about being alive). But this is just
what I cannot do. 1 must go dragging on
this dull narrow existence, a burden to the
father who despises me as a useless, lazy
humbug  ' and then, to complete Olive's
humiliation, tears  which are tyrants when
the flesh is weak  beofan to force themselves
into his eyes.

Presently, his sisters, Harriet and Janet,
came walking slowly and disconsolately
down the shrubbery path. Their brief enjoyment,
their game of croquet, had come

to an end ; and their fellow-plasters, the
curate and the officer, after presenting each
of them with a cup of tea, had forsaken
them, with an air of being at last off
duty.

What is the matter, Olive ? how ill you
look !' said Janet, kindly.

It is nothing,' answered Clive, faintly,
only the old story.'

You are tired to death, poor boy,' said
Harriet, ' Janet do go and find mamma and
the pony-carriage. She and Clive had
better go home at once.'

Janet departed to look for Mrs. Marsden,
and the shabby little pony carriage which
bad been hired to convey herself and her
son to and from Morwell Vicarage.
Harriet sat down by her brother's side, and
waited for Janet's return.

A thick hedge of rhododendrons

sheltered this path from one of the
several lawns of the vicarage garden.
Harriet and Clive were entirely concealed.
Presently she heard a voice which she
recognised as that of Major Goodwin, who
had been playing croquet with her that
afternoon. He had evidently just met with
an acquaintance.

What have you been doing with yourself
all the afternoon ?' asked the latter.
Haven't seen you before, though some one
told me you were here.'

Oh, playing croquet, that antiquated
game, with two equally antiquated girls.
Awfully slow work said Major Goodwin.


Miss Tremayne one of the antiquated
girls?' the other man inquired, rather
archly.

Certainly not,' was the emphatic

answer. * One never looks on Miss
Tremayne, in her position as mistress of
her uncle's house, as a girl at all. She
has quite the style of a married woman.
But, when spinsters past their youth put
on juvenile airs, the result is slightly
absurd  ' and the two men passed on out
of hearing.

Harriet's face was in a flame.
Listeners never hear any good of themselves
' is a true enough saying ; but in this
case, unless she had put her fingers in her
ears, she could not have avoided hearing what
Major Goodwin was saying, and the fault
was his alone. Harriet had flattered herself
that she looked ' awfully nice ' that afternoon.
She had played with skill, she had
talked with spirit  and this was the result:
antiquated,' ' slightly absurd.'

A burning: desire for revenge seized

upon her. She would slow the world that
she was not rejected and ridiculed by
everybody ; though she was nearly thirty
years old, and unmarried. A way was
open to her, she believed, a way she had
hesitated about taking, hoping that some
more brilliant alternative to a life of
spinsterhood might be offered to her some
day. But time was going on, and the
word ' antiquated ' (poor soul, she was
really in her prime, and physical strength
and nervous energy and all the tides of
life were at their highest with her) but the
word ' antiquated ' was like a poisoned
arrow rankling in her flesh. And one
word has often, before now, decided a
destiny.

The climax of Harriet's mortification
was reached when she passed the tennis-ground,
and saw Lina, flushed, agile, youthful,

bidding good-bye to the young man in
white flannels who had been her partner
in the game, and who was beaming upon
her, and saying  ' I hope I shall meet you
again before long

Lina who looks like that, and is only
twenty, Lina says she does not care to
marry, and would sooner earn her livelihood
and be independent ! What a contrary
world it is,' sighed Harriet. 'And it
is not as though I had not tried beings
young too ; I was twenty once as well as
Lina. But I never got any good by it,
that I can see.'

VOL. I. M

CHAPTER IX.

A TICKET-OF-LEAVE MAN.

Three days afterwards, Cecilia was taking
a solitary walk along her favourite moorland
road. She was an excellent horsewoman,
and frequently rode with her uncle
who had always kept a horse for her
especial use. But to-day he had driven
some miles into the country to lunch with
a neighbouring squire, and Cecilia was glad
of the opportunity of taking a long walk by
herself.

She was feeling a little lonely, and left

out in the cold, for she had heard nothing
from Mrs. Rivers since the day of the
garden-party. But she was hardly surprised
at this. Kathleen was never a good
correspondent, and how could Cecilia
expect to be anything to her now, in all
the wonderful joy and excitement of her
brother's release ? Probably they had
gone together to London, probably she
would never return to Morwell Lodge,
thought Cecilia sadly. ' I never expected
to have more than a small share of her
thoughts ; I must be less than nothing to
her now  and yet, how much sympathy I
feel for her !'

Cecilia's road led her past Morwell
Lodge. Having made up her mind that
the worst had happened, and that her
friend, had left the place for ever, she
cast a hasty glance at the house, feeling

M 2

sure that she should see the blinds drawn
down, and the unmistakeable vacant look
which a house has when the owner is away.
Perhaps by assuming the certainty of
what she dreaded most, she was unconsciously
trying to coax fate into being
better than her fears.

But what was that on the road, a few
hundred yards away? Mrs. Rivers' little
basket-carriage and pair of ponies, beyond
a doubt. Kathleen was driving as usual,
and by her side there sat a man  the
mere glimpse of whom set Cecilia's heart
beating quickly.

The pony-carriage stopped at the gate of
Morwell Lodge, the gentleman alighted,
and was about to open the gate, but at that
moment Mrs. Rivers evidently recognised
her friend, and they awaited her approach.

Cecilia hardly knew what happened

during the next few minutes ; she trembled
a little as she walked towards Mrs. Rivers,
and her face was very pale. Kathleen
gave her her usual hearty greeting, then,
 Let me formally introduce you to each
other  my brother Maurice  my friend
Miss Tremayne. You have seen each
other before,' said Mrs. Rivers, with a
strange sort of triumph in her tone.

Cecilia bowed, with a certain amount of
reverence, to the young man who was
standing by the gate, but her intense,
though repressed agitation prevented her
from having, at the first moment, any clear
idea of what he was like.

She was conscious only that there was a
bright smile on his face, as he returned
her bow, and said, in a clear, sweet-toned
voice,

I would not have allowed my sister to

introduce an Irish felon to an English
lady, if she had not told me what
thorough sympathy you have with our
National cause.'

My whole heart is in it replied Cecilia,
the blood rushing back to her pale face.
'But it is I who should hardly have
ventured to meet you, you have such cause
to hate everybody who is English.'

Neo, not everybody' he answered, with
the same frank, winning smile.

Miss Tremayne is no Saxon, at all
events ; her soul is as Celtic as her name
said Mrs. Rivers, looking at her friend
with a proud tenderness. ' Cecilia, how
glad I am we have met you ! You
must come into the house with us and have
some tea.'

So Cecilia, with her heart still beating: a
little hurriedly, and her brain still a little

confused, accompanied Mrs. Rivers into
the drawing-room, and Mr. O'O'Donovan
followed them a few minutes later.
When they bad seated themselves at the
little tea-table in the bow window, Cecilia
ventured to give a direct glance of scrutiny
at the released convict.

Maurice O'O'Donovan was a man whom
few could pass in the street without noticing.
He was in the very prime of life 
tall, upright, and muscular, with the air of
a most stately, gallant gentleman. He
had bright brown hair, rather thin on the
temples, and a slight moustache and
peaked beard which did not hide the
determined lines round his powerfully
moulded mouth and chin. The finest
feature in his face were his eyes, as dark
blue as the Mediterranean Sea ; they were
full of tenderness now, as he looked at his

sister, but sometimes flame seemed to flash
from them. His face was pale and worn,
but the traces of suffering had not destroyed
its youthfulness, he had endured untold
agonies and hardships, and yet he looked
full of force and energy. Long years on
the bleak heights of Dartmoor had not
crushed his body or tamed his will : he
had been dead and buried, but now he had
risen to life again. Ireland would hear of
him once more  yes, and so would England
too.

With the white and wasted look of a
man recovering from a long and terrible
illness, there was about him also the convalescent's
sense of repose and comfort
after ' long grief and pain.' He seemed ina
blissful state of rest, from which he
aroused himself, sometimes with a slight
start, when he was addressed. His eyes

rested now on Kathleen, now on Cecilia, as
if to look at them gave him a deep and
dreamy pleasure, and they could not
realise the refreshment the mere sight of
a refined and gentle woman's face was
to him, after seven years of a dreadful sort
of monastery.

And Kathleen gazed at her brother with
a passionate joy and almost awe, which
brought to Cecilia the thought : ' So Mary
must have looked at Lazarus after his
resurrection.' There was something about
Maurice O'O'Donovan which was a little
strange and unusual  something which
removed him to a little distance from
them, and from ordinary daily life  like
the chill and silence and horror of the
grave still lingering about the risen man.

The first remark which Mrs. Rivers
made was common-place enough.

Cecilia, does Mr. Tremayne file the
Times ? No, I suppose not. I wonder if
ifc is possible to see any old newspapers
anywhere in this neighbourhood ? My
brother, you must know, divides his time
between reading all the newspapers he
can get, and asking me questions about
what is really ancient history now, and I
cannot remember as much as I wish.'

You perhaps do not realize, Miss
Tremayne, that I know next to nothing
of what has happened in the world for
seven years. You would find it hard to
match ignorance such as mine, in any of
the peasant's cottages on these lonely
moors.'

Cecilia could only look at Maurice in
silence ; she could not venture to express
pity for suffei'higs such as his, and she
was moved almost more than she could

bear by the calm cheerfulness, even gaiety
Tvith which he spoke of them.

You remember, I daresay,' he went on,
that when Lafayette was taken prisoner by
the Austrians, during the French Revolution,
they forbade him to see a newspaper
or to know anything that was going on outside
his dungeon walls. Long ago I used
to wonder how Lafayette lived through that
part of his captivity. Well, I have tried
it, and I am alive, you see. But I feel as
though an old newspaper Alas worth its
weight in gold to me.'

Here Maurice passed his tea-cup to his
sister, saying,

'Another cup of your delicious tea, if
you please, Kathleen. I had almost forgotten
what good tea was like. Everything:
in civilized life has become a little

CD

surprise to me.'

Do you like this room?' asked Mrs.
Elvers, anxious that his present surroundings
should please him as much as possible.
It is very plainly furnished, but I did
not care to have anything elaborate in this
mere cottage.'

In truth, the drawing-room at Morwell
Lodge exactly fulfilled Cecilia's ideal of
extreme simplicity combined with artistic
taste. The floor was covered with Indian
matting, the furniture was of firewood, the
curtains were embroidered cream-coloured
linen, and a touch of deep colour was
given by the blue delft jars filled with
little scarlet dahlias and flame-coloured
marigolds, and a great bowl heaped with
Jacqueminot and Gloire de Dijon roses.

Your room is simply Paradise to me,*
replied the seven-years prisoner. ' I used
sometimes to dream of a pretty, sunny

A TICKET-OF-LEAVE MAN. 1 7k

room like this, and ifc was a very pleasant
dream. But the awakening was not so
pleasant he added, half under his breath ;
and a dark shadow for one moment swept
over his face.

Kathleen clenched her hands and bit her
lips to keep in a cry of pain. It was a
word or two like this, now and then carelessly
uttered by her brother, which stabbed
her with sharp sudden realization of
the long agony he had endured. To dream
of some simple, pretty home like this
cottage of hers, where she could come and
go at her own free-will, to dream of liberty,
then to wake to a prison-cell, to the life of
a slave  this is what her brother Maurice
had done again and again.

The deprivation of all knowledge of
what was happening in the outer world,
was one of the very few of his sufferings

about wliicli he could bring himself to
speak to his sister. She should never hear,
if he could help it, of the physical and
moral degradations of penal servitude.
But she was not so ignorant as he had
hoped.

All his present thoughts and feelings
he could confide in her without reserve.
And here let me quote the words of one of
the noblest of the long list of sufferers for
the cause of Ireland, when he speaks of
'' The wild, ecstatic, soul-filling happiness
of the first day of freedom'*

Everything which meets the gaze of
the liberated prisoner, every thought of
the present and the future, assumes a
brighter hue and wears a more blissful
meaning from the terrible recollection of

Michael Davitt's ' Leaves from a Prison Diary.'

tbo felon degradation, the narrow cell, the
stinted sunlight, the loathsome daily task,
the brutal warder, and the weary, heart-longing
expectancy for the hour of
deliverance.'

I am very glad you like this little
house, Maurice,' said his sister, 'but I wish
there was a different view from the
window, anything but Dartmoor.'

Ah, you don't know,' replied Maurice,
smiling, ' how those hills with their rocky
crests and the lights and shadows sweeping
over them have sometimes brought mo
peace and consolation. And there are
bits of the moor which I could see from
the prison which reminded me of the west
of Ireland.'

I suppose you will soon return to Ireland,
Mr. O'O'Donovan,' said Cecilia. She

had been struggling with a strange shyness
and it was with difficulty she could bring
herself to make a common-place remark to
a man so far removed from her by everything
but the intense sympathy she felt
for him, and the common tongue which,
despite themselves, the Irish are obliged to
use.

I'll return to Ireland before long, no
doubt, but not just yet. You have heard,
I suppose, Miss Tremayne, of a ticket-leave
man ? In fact, I think there was once
a play with that title. Well, I am a 
man. I have been released upon
certain conditions, which conditions, as I
told the Governor of the prison, I have not
the slightest intention of observing,' he
said, a little haughtily. ' One of these
conditions is, that I am not to return to
Ireland. So that it will be wiser for me

to do everything I want to do before I
go home. I'll probably be re-arrested
soon after I set foot in my own country.'

Maurice !' cried Kathleen, half-rising
from her seat, in her agitation, ' we  your
friends must make a prisoner of you if you
attempt to go back to Ireland !'

We will see about that when the time
comes.' He smiled as he answered, but
there was a look in his face which reminded
Cecilia that no entreaties had availed to
shake his determination, when he remained
in his home waiting for his arrest. He
was a man who was never to be turned
from a course he had resolved upon,
by any thought of consequences to himself.


At least, you will go to America first
pleaded Mrs. Rivers, with a strained and
suffering: look on her beautiful face. Her

VOL. I. N

sorrows were not ended by her brother's
release, rather a new kind of pain and
anxiety had begun for her. She began to
crave for her husband's return home. It
gave her a sense of peace and safety even
to think of the small grey man, with his
sunny face and placid ways  albeit he held
what his fellow M.p's called violent and
revolutionary opinions.

'Yes, certainly, I must go to the greater
Ireland beyond the Atlantic whilst I have
the chance. You know, Miss Tremayne ;'
and aorain he turned to her with a winnings
grace and courtesy, as if he were careful
that she, an Englishwoman and a comparative
stranger to him, should not feel
herself excluded from the conversation ;
'you know, as one of our leading men said
a few days ago, the Irish struggle has
passed beyond the shores of Ireland. It is

110 longer the struggle of a people, but the
struggle of a race.'

Yes,' answered Cecilia, who, with all her
enthusiasm for one oppressed nationality,
never dissociated it from the cause
of freedom all over the world. ' America
must be to you somewhat as Bulgaria
and Roumania are to the Slavs under
Turkish rule.'

As she spoke she rose, she was acutely
sensitive to the possibility of being in the
way, of interrupting the perfect interchange
of thought and confidence between
the long separated brother and sister.
The very poignancy of the pleasure aroused
in her by the presence of Maurice Donovan,
warned her to go, because it was
such a temptation to remain longer. She
knew that the half hour she had just
spent over the tea-table in this homely

n2

little room, would stand out in vivid relief
 every word and thought remembered
from all the rest of her life.

'Good-bye, Kathleen. I suppose you are
eoiucy to London soon ?'

We are going tomorrow,' was Mrs;
Rivers' not wholly unexpected answer, but
Cecilia's heart sank down like lead. * My
brother has various old friends to see in
London, and I am going to Ireland a little
later on with letters and messages to other
friends. We know better than to trust
important correspondence to the postoffice,
don't we, Cecilia? Even Miss
Tremajme gets her letters opened sometimes,
Maurice, because I am known to
write to her, and some of my letters never
reach their destination at all.'

I trust we will meet again, before I goto
America,' said ]maurice, as he aud his

sister accompanied Cecilia into the hall.

When he bad opened the door, he bowed,
but Cecilia, with a quick, warm impulse,
put out her hand. He held it a little
longer than was quite conventional, and
for one moment they looked straight into
each other's eyes,-  Cecilia with a gaze of
sympathy, compassion, reverence, which a
man less chivalrous, less single-minded
than Maurice O'O'Donovan might have misinterpreted,
but which he met with a look
as frank, as respectful as her own. He
knew that to her he represented all the
struggles, all the sufferings of his nation.

Some day, Miss Tremayne, you must
tell me how it was you came to care so
much for Ireland.'

In another moment, Cecilia was walking
down the moorland road thinking: to herself
 ' I never saw Kossuth, Mazzini, any

of the heroes I have worshipped all my
life ; but I have seen now some of their
glorious kindred, I have talked with a man
who has links with the patriots of past
history, a soldier in the noble army of
martyrs.'

CHAPTER X.

HARRIET Garden IS AVENGED.

The afternoon following the garden-party
at Morwell Vicarage, Harriet Marsden,
clad in a dowdy waterproof cloak, set
forth from her home with a basket in her
hand containing little packets of tea
and arrowroot, which she had begged
from the cook. She was sfoino to see a
certain sick woman in the parish, she said.
For the last few weeks Harriet had taken
to occasionally visiting the poor, a proceeding
which rather astonished her family, as

the sisters were accustomed to leave all
good works ' to Janet.

Harriet stopped at a little white-washed
cottage. She rapped impatiently at the
door, then pushed it open.

Oh, good morning, Mrs. Hopkins,' she
said, to a white-faced woman sitting huddled
in a shawl by the fireside. * I have
brought you some things ; I can't stay.'
She put the basket down on a rough deal
table, and bounced out of the cottage again.
 Thank goodness that's done,' she said to
herself, *and now for business.'

She walked quickly along the high-road
towards St. Stephen's railway station (for
the village, small as it was, was connected
with the main line to London), then, with one
hurried glance over her shoulder to make
sure she was not observed, she turned into
a narrow lane. Past banks luxuriant with

ferns, and over-arched with oak and ash-trees,
she went, until she came to a rough,
five-barred gate. She unfastened the
latch, and entered a muddy farm-yard,
over-run with poultry, pigs, and ducks.
Great barns and cowsheds, with thatched
roofs and yellow ricks, stood round an
ancient farmhouse with great granite porch
and casement windows, and grey walls
muffled with fuchsia and honeysuckle.

Harriet Marsden entered the porch,
slipped off her long grey cloak, threv* it
down on one of the stone seats, and stood
revealed in a dainty pink cambric gown,
with ruffles of lace round her throat and
waists. She then rapped the antique
knocker on the great oaken door, which
stood wide open.

A voice from within invited her to enter,
and she passed into a long, low room, with

a black oaken beam running across the
white-washed ceiling and deep window-seats
below the casements. There were
mahogany chairs and tables of genuine
last century work, an oaken dresser on
which were ranged quantities of old
Staffordshire ' lustre ware,' an immense
open fire-place, and a high stone mantelshelf
on which gleamed bright silver-plated
candlesticks and snuffers tray. This was
the parlour of the farm-house.

An elderly woman, with white hair
under a widow's cap, and pleasant features,
satin an old-fashioned chintz-covered armchair,
reading the report of a Methodist
tea-meeting in the Western Morning News,
Her face lighted up as Harriet entered.

Why, dear Miss Marsden, you are quite
a stranger ; I was afraid you were never
coming to see me aoain.'

There are some people who always
reward their friends' visits by complaints of
not receiving them oftener.

Harriet smiled her sweetest as she
shook hands with the old lady, and then
she sighed a little.

 You know, dear Mrs. Wendron, there
are always difficulties in the way of my
coming to see you. There is so much
bigotry and intolerance towards dissenters
at home. I sometimes fear I shall have
to give up coming here altogether, and
that would be such a grief to me. I
always feel so much better for a good talk
with you. Oh, dear, I do wish I could
sometimes attend the services in your
chapel r

 Well, I'm sure. Miss Marsden,' replied
Mrs. Wendron bridling, and looking much
gratified, ' it is a pleasure to see anyone

like you  brought up as you have been, so
genteelly, as one may say  striving after
the light. Oar little chapel here is but a
humble building, and we are all of us
plain working people, more or less.'

Mrs. Wendron could not shake off the
feeling, common amongst dissenters, that
there was something of superior caste in
'Church people,' which made attentions
from them a compliment.

My father, you see, is an awfully High-churchman;'
and Harriet sighed again;
and that makes things so very awkward
for me.'

 But you know the words, dear Miss
Marsden  '' He that loveth father or mother
more than me " I was told by one

who used to go to your church sometimes,
that it is most painful to see the manoeuvres
that Mr. Marsden goes through in the

service  not that my friend paid any
attention to them, she just shut her eyes
and went on praying. Well now, Robert
will be in directly and we are just going
to have tea, and I shall take it very kind,
Miss Marsden, if you will stop and have a
cup with us.'

Harriet assented with delight ; and she
sat patiently listening to Mrs. Wendron's
talk, but all the time with an abstracted
look in her face, and her head slightly on
one side, as il she were listening for something.
A stout, rosy-cheeked maid-servant
bustled in and out with the tea-things, and
presently came the sound that Harriet had
been waiting for  a man's heavy footstep
in the granite porch.

Eobert Wendron, tenant of this Bradford
Farm, son of the widow who was talking to
Harriet Marsden, stood in the doorway

of the room. He was a tall, broad-shouldered
man of thirty, dressed in a rough
tweed suit, and much splashed leather
gaiters. His face was handsome, sunburnt,
with rather a stern expression ; he
lead a thick brown moustache and beard,
and dark, passionate eyes. He stood for a
moment, in the doorway : then he came
forward into the room, pulling off his soft
tweed hat, as if with an afterthought ; when
quite close to Harriet  

Good afternoon, Miss Marsden,' so he
addressed her, rather brusquely. ' Mother
and I thought you did not mean to come
here any more.'

Harriet half rose from her chair, and
held out her hand half timidly, with a
sidelong glance from her sparkling black
eyes.

It is such a pleasure to come and have

a chat with Mrs. AYendron sometimes she
murmured, castiuo- down her eyes again,
but I have to be a little careful. You
can have no idea of the difficulties I have
to contend with at home.'

I tell Miss Marsden, Robert, that if she
poets into trouble at home through coming
to see us, she must remember it is for
conscience sake. She ought to set her
face against all the mummers which goon
at her father's church, and come and
hear the pure gospel preached at our
chapel, and I am sure, you'll say with me,
she'll always be welcome in this house, if
so be she'll do us the honour of coming to
see us sometimes.'

Mr. Wendron did not reply to this, but
he drew up his chair to the tea-table
beside Harriet.

Give Miss Marsden a cup of tea as

quick as you can, mother. It's a fagging"
walk for her all the was from the
vicarage here,' he said, in a deep-toned
voice, with the same west-country accent
in which his mother spoke.

Little was said during the substantial
meal of home-made bread, butter, clotted
cream and eggs, all produce of the farm,
with great apple pasties, plum-cakes yellow
with saffron, cut-glass dishes full of
marmalade and raspberry jam.

Mrs. Wendrou, indeed, talked of her
chapel and the class-meetings, of the
respective merits of ' Rounders ' and
'Locals,' the two species of preachers
who, varying from Sunday to Sunday,
occupied the pulpit at the little whitewashed
Bethesda in the village of St.
Stephen's.

You must get a bit tired, always having

the same minister as they do at church,'
said she. ' It's like having mutton for
dinner every day; it may be the best meat,
but you lose your appetite for it all the
same. Whilst, you see, in our connection,
we have a change every Sunday, and change
is as good for the mind as 'tis for the body,
I always say.'

Robert Wendron paid but little heed to
his mother, but looked from time to time
at Harriet with quick and passionate
glances ; handing her, with a sort of
sullen attentiveness, everything on the
table, and trying to pile up her plate with
good things.

She sat with eyes cast down, her colour
coming and going, she seemed embarrassed,
almost frightened. At last she
started, and glanced at the eight-day clock
with its brass face and tall mahogany-vol.

I.

case, which stood in a corner of the room.

I thought of walking to the station to
meet mamma and Janet,' she said, with a
sort of nervous apprehension. ' They went
to Tavistock this afternoon, and they are
coming back by the 6.15 train. I must go,
indeed I must.'

Well, good-bye, my dear,' said Mrs.
Wendrou, affectionately, ' do come and see

us again soon,

The young farmer walked to the door;
there he stood, crushing his tweed hat
between his hands.

Shall I walk a little way with you, Miss
Marsden ?' he asked, with a stern significance
in his tone.

If you like,' answered Harriet, her eyes
still shyly lowered.

She picked up her waterproof cloak from
the stone seat in the porch, then she went

across the miry farmyard. Eobert Wendroii
followed her, and, as she began to unfasten
the rusty latch of the gate with hands
which trembled a little, he took it from
her, threw the gate wide open, and stood
waiting for her to pass him, looking down
into her face with fixed and penetrating
eyes.

 Shall I walk all the way to the station
with you, Miss Marsden?'

Aizain she murmured, in some confusion,

If you like ;' then she added, quickly,
that is  I mean, not quite all the
way.'

'I understand,' he answered, 'you shan't
run the risk of being caught walking with
me. That train isn't due for another half-hour.'


They walked side by side down the steep
hill which led them to the railway. Not a



word was spoken for some minutes ; then
Robert Wendron began, abruptly,

'We are wasting a lot of time, and I
have got something to say to you, Miss
Marsdeu. When you came and took
shelter in our house from the thunderstorm,
some weeks ago, I thought you out and
out the nicest young lady I had ever seen,
you talked so prettily to my mother, and
she took quite a Fancy to you, you and she
have got on swimmingly together; and
you kept on coming after that from time
to time, and I got to look out for jou, and
to think about you, and I thought you
weren't stuck-up, though you were a parson's
daughter, and you didn't seem altogether
happy and comfortable at home, and
so I thought '

His voice faltered for a moment ; then
he went on hurriedly, his eyes turned away

from her  ' I thought could you perhaps
bring your mind to come down to our
sort of life, we are just plain, working
people  and so J went and lost my head
the last time T saw you, and that is three
Weeks ago come Monday, and  and you
were very much put out, you know,
and I thought you meant never to come
near us again. And now you have come
and I want to know '  and suddenly his
manner changed, he turned upon her, and
looked straight in her face with almost
fierceness, ' I want to know it' you mean
anything by it ?'

I did not mean to offend you that day,'
answered Harriet, in a low tone. ' I was
so taken by surprise, you know.'

You had no need to be surprised.
You must have seen for some time past
what was in my mind about you.'

I have been thinking about what 3011
said ever since, and so I  I. came today
 to see your mother and  and you.'

You came to see me, did you ?' A
light Hashed into the sombre passionate
face. ' Then, Miss Marsden, all I've
got to say is  will you marry me, and put
up with our homely country ways, though
you are a lady born and bred, and I am
just a plain farmer?'

Harriet's cheeks glowed, she thrilled allover
with triumph. The supreme moment
of her life had come, never before had she
heard such words from the lips of mortal
man. And though at times she hadflattered
herself that Robert Wendron wanted to
marry her, yet she had often doubted
whether he was thoroughly in earnest. But
now all suspense was over.

She was somewhat at a loss how to

answer him. Her memory cast a hurried
glance over some of the love-scenes in the
tons of novels that she had read, trying to
recall how a woman should conduct herself
with grace and dignity in a crisis such as
this. It ended very tamely. She only
said, stammering a little with excitement

Ob, dear, I really don't know what to say.
I am sure papa would never consent to it

*I have nothing to do with your father.
You are quite old enough to make up your
mind for yourself.'

Harriet winced, her face fell ; did Eobert
AVendron too think her ' antiquated'?

'Mind you,' he went on, '1 never cared
twopence about those chits of girls with
baby faces that some men run after. You
are a bit older than some of them, and a
good deal more sensible, and you're just
the right age for me, I take it.'

I couldn't  T really couldn't murmured
Harriet, re-assured, but convinced that
the correct things in her circumstances was
a show of reluctance and confusion. ' You
are a dissenter, you know, as well as a
farmer, and it would be an awfully 
thing for me to do.'

Then, Miss Marsden'  Robert Wendron
stood still in the middle of the road, and
glared at Harriet with a face which she
afterwards described as dreadful  ' Am I
to understand that you have been making
a fool of me all this time ? Coming to my
house again to-day, and telling me to my
face that you came to see me ?' and he
ground the heel of his heavy boot into the
earth.

Harriet panted with a sort of terror and
fascination.

Oh, please  ease don't say anything
more  we had better part here.'

'Neo, we are not going to part till I've
told you a bit more of my mind. You area
lady born and bred, as I said before, and
that is one reason why I care about you 
but I am a man, if I am not a gentleman, and
I am not going to let you play with me, like
a cat playing with a mouse. Look here,
now. it's no use my telling you that I love
you, that I would give every penny I have
in the world to get you for my wife, you
know all that just as well as I do  but 
but  ' then his stern voice began to
tremble, ' if you've been coming here today
just for nothing but to raise my hopes
again, and then to deceive me worse than
ever  why, I feel as if I could be the death
of you, that's all.'

Don't, don't say such dreadful things,'

answered Harriet, ready to crj, with a
strange feeling that was half fright and
half ecstasy. ' I am not deceiving you 
then, really unable to speak another word,
she put her daintily gloved hand into
Robert's strong, rough, sunburnt one. ' I
cannot help it,' she thought, ' I have gone
too far, he would be ready to murder me
now if I refused to marry him.'

His fingers did not close round hers
until he had asked,

Do you mean that you promise to be
my wife, and that you'll abide by your
promise, come what will?'

Then at her whispered, ' Yes,' he
grasped her hand until he almost crushed
it.

So Harriet Marsden's fate was sealed,
and she, the daughter of the High-church
vicar of St. Stephen's, and of a true

British matron who revered propriety and
all the laws and customs of good society 
Harriet was engaged to marry a lowborn
tenant-farmer of the Methodist
persuasion.

She was in a state of rapture which for
the present blinded her eyes to all the consequences
of what she had done. She
knew only that she was at last avenged for
all the slights cast upon her by the
'gentlemen' who neglected to pay her
attentions, and by the father and mother
who grumbled and sighed because she
appeared likely to become an old maid.
She scarcely loved Robert Wendron as
yet, but she was fascinated by him, his
rough wooing had charms for her. She
had expected that a man in his position
would have been timidly respectful, and
that in time would have annoyed her as a

constant reminder that be was her social
inferior. But, on the contrary, be behaved
with all the frank pride and independence
of the Cornishman that he was (there is
plenty of Cornish blood to be found east
of the Tamar).

There was more than that, however 
there was something about Robert Wen-iron
that was masterful and over-bearing,
which Harriet, in the first hours of ibis
love-makinor- thought delightful. Like all
animal-natured women, she liked to feel
herself overwhelmed by superior force.
That pleasure is but a fleeting one, however,
as are all pleasures which belong to
a lower type of passion. It is no pleasure,
very much the reverse, to be domineered
over in the prosaic working-days of married
life, or of any other life. Robert Wen-iron's
farm-labourers did not think it quite

SO cliarminf as Harriet did, to be stormed
af, to feel as though their very souls were
Dot their own, and that it was as much as
their lives were worth to cross the master s
will.

As for Robert "Wendron himself, his
love for Harriet was mixed with gratified
vanity. That a woman entirely out of his
own class, a Church of England parson's
daughter, should have come time aftertime
to his farm-house, making friends
with his mother, showing herself pleased
with his attentions, this was so gratifying
to his self-love that his strong head was
completely turned for a little while. There
were plenty of pretty young girls at the
other farms round about, whom Robert
Wendron might have had for the asking,
but then of course they were not ladies ;
and it was a genuine pleasure to him to

meet with even so raucli of refinement as
Harriet possessed. He liked it in 'womenfolk,'
tboucrli he made no pretension to
anything which he thought would be
inconvenient for a hard-working: man.
And there was about Harriet a certain
undefinable something, which made her 
outwardly at all events  one of the 'gentlefolk.'


I am afraid,' she said presently, with a
little shiver, ' that you don't realize what
dreadful difficulties there are before us.
Papa and mamma will never give their
consent.'

We'll do without it Robert answered,
sturdily. 'My mother likes you, and that
is all I care about. She'll give you a
welcome, I'll answer for that. And as for
the rest, my dear, don't you trouble
yourself about it. I'll take care of you.'

This oddly-assorted pair of lovers bad
lingered so long upon the road  while
Eobert uttered tender follies which seemed
to Harriet a very Song of Solomon  that
presently a white cloud of steam was seen
comines alone the ravine through which
ran the railway.

There is the train !' cried Harriet, in
terror. ' Ob, please go back, Eobert. I
shall die if mamma sees me with you !'

It won't do for you to be ashamed of
me, Harriet,' he answered, grimly, holding
her by the arm. ' You have got to put up
with me now for good and all.'

'I will do anything  anything  'Harriet
pleaded, in an agony  ' if you will only
let me go now. I cannot tell them.*

Will you marry me without telling
them?' he demanded, still holding her.

I will, I promise you I will !'

Very well then, I'll let you go now;
you have given me your word, mind !' he
called after her as she flew down the road
to the station, just as the train came up.

Then Robert turned, and ascended the
hill again, saying to himself, with his fist
clenched, and his dark eyes ablaze with
passion,

she is mine! and I defy all the parsons,
and the devil himself, to take her away
from me !'

Five minutes after, Mrs. Marsden and
her daughters, laden with parcels, the
results of shopping at Tavistock, were toiling
the same road on their way home to
the vicarage.

Mrs. Marsden's sharp eyes detected a
morsel of pink cambric beneath Harriet's
grey waterproof cloak.

How extravagant of you,' she said,

severely, for she still treated her daughters
as children to be kept in order  ' how
extravagant of you to wear that new dress
this showery afternoon. As if there was
anyone to see what you wore along this
country road !'

They were passing the lane which
led to Radford Farm. Harriet's guilty
heart gave a great bound. For, coming
towards them, she saw Robert Wendron
on his chestnut mare. She had been
ready saddled and waiting for him in the
stable ; he had mounted her and ridden
forth determined to see his love once more,
or perhaps he wanted to refresh his memory
with a sight of some of the members
of her family. He bad almost forgotten
Avhat they were like ; he wondered whether
they looked the sort of people to cast off
Harriet for ever, if she married him. He

VOL. I. P

hoped they would do so ; be did not want
to be bothered with her father the parson,
and her fine lady mother and sisters.

He rode past them, with one keen penetrating
glance, his handsome face as
sombre as usual, his colour a little heightened
perhaps, but with no other token of
being conscious of Harriet's presence.

Did you see, Harriet,' said Janet, with
much animation, when Robert was out of
hearing, * that was young Wendron of Rad-ford
Farm. Isn't he handsome ? quite the
best looking man in the place ; and what
a nice horse he is riding !'

Really, Janet, I am quite shocked at you !'
so her mother reproved her. ' To think of
noticing the appearance of a man of that
class I It is not only that he is nothing
but a common, uneducated farmer, but he
and his mother are some of the most

obstinate schismatics in the place. It is
most sad for your papa to have such
people in his parish, undoing all the good
he does, and undermining the influence of
the Church. They ought to have been
turned out of Radford Farm honos ago. No
landowner with any sense of duty would
allow a dissenter to rent a farm, or even a
cottage on his estate.'

Harriet listened, sick with misery. She
realized, as she had never done before, the
gulf which lay between her family and her
lover. Her marriage with Robert Wen-iron
would be an unpardonable sin, an act
of high treason to the Church and to
society.

At that moment, Robert was a few yards
ahead of the Marsdens. ' Accidentally on
purpose,' as children say, he dropped his
whip, and had to dismount to pick it up.

r 2

So it fell out that the ladies again passed
the farmer on the road. A sort of magnetism
drew Harriet's eyes for a moment
to his own. They were fixed upon her
with a look so ardent that her heart leaped
up in triumph, and all her doubts and
terrors were scattered to the winds. Yes,
she would marry him, come what would.

CHAPTER XL

CLANDESTINE AND SCHISMATIC.

The three or four weeks which followed were
to Harriet Marsden such a time of diversified
worry and misery that she often said
to herself,

Married life ought to be awfully nice, to
make up for this.'

She had to invent plausible excuses for
walking out alone. Then when she was
arrayed in her dowdy cloak, with a basket
full of parcels of tea or arrowroot, Janet
would propose to accompany her on her

visits to the poor;orClive would gladly walk
with her when she said she was going to
search for ferns and berries in the hedgerows
; and Lina was always inconveniently
interested if she expressed a wish to lookin
at the village school. Harriet dared
not confide in either of her sisters ; Lina
would have been horrified if she had
known what Harriet proposed to do ; and
Janet, who would have been more sympathetic
when a marriage was concerned,
could never keep a secret.

At last, after waiting several days ina
sort of torture of suspense and continual
disappointment, Harriet, nearly at
her wit's end, succeeded in getting an
hour to herself in which to pay a
hurried visit to Radford Farm. Then
Robert Wendroo, after giving her one

passionately tender greeting, began to
storm at lier for not coming oftener.

How can I help it ?' she answered,
piteously, * you are very hard on me. No
other girl has to do what 1 have  goto
a man's own house in order to see
him. It is awfully horrid. Thank
goodness, your mother is always at
home.'

 And how can I help it ?' retorted
Robert  Suppose I were to go to your
house, as you say it is the proper thing for
the man to do '

Oh, for heaven's sake, don't !'

Suppose I were to go to your house
and tell your father the parson all about
you and me ! I wonder what he'd do ?
He would try to kick me out of the house,
wouldn't he ? only, as it happens, I am

V

twice the man he is ; and, as for you, I
should think he would whip you and lock
you up on bread and water

How can you say such things T and
Harriet turned away from him in anger ;
then, the next moment, Eobert had his
strong arm round her, and he cried, with a
triumphant laugh,

Never you mind, my dear ; T am going
to be your husband next week, and
nobody shall ever be unkind to you
again  except myself,' he might have
added.

The wedding-day was fixed, the day to
which Harriet looked forward with triumph,
and also with an agony of terror. Anything
was better than this suspense, this
living in hourly dread of detection, yet
supposing she should be found out at the
last moment ? And not for her were any

of the little vanities of a bride, sbe could
not even buy a trousseau. Mr. Marsden
took good care that his children should be
as dependent upon him as possible, and at
this moment all that Harriet possessed
in the world out of her meagre allowance
was just four shillings and sixpence.


She was forced to take Mrs. Wendron
into her confidence. The old lady had
received her son's future wife with open
arms. That the daughter of a Hioh-
Church parson should consent to marry
her sou and go to chapel for the rest
of her life, seemed a victory of truth over
error.

And then Harriet had beoored her so
sweetly still to remain mistress of the farmhouse.
Harriet had no taste for domestic
drudgery, and she trusted that old Mrs.

Wendron would look after the poultry and
butter and cream, and make the jams
and pickles, and do all the other uninteresting
things which she supposed
a farmer's wife was expected to do.

Mrs. Wendron was delighted.

I shall be able to have the minister to
dinner on Sundays the same as ever she
thought, complacently : ' and though Miss
Marsden is a very nice young lady, with
not a bit of pride about her, still I can't
expect her to understand the dairy or the
bread-making, or to look after Eobert's
little comforts as I have been used to do.'

The old lady tried to comfort her when
the bride-elect bitterly bewailed her inability
to buy even a wedding-gown.

'Never mind, my dear, Robert will never
think anything about it; and you can get

everything you want by-and-by, after you
are married.'

Money was far more plentiful at Radford
Farm than it was at St. Stephen's Vicarage
; and there was abundance of homely
comfort without the smallest attempt at
display in the Wondrous' house. Robert's
father and grandfather had been sober,
thrifty, hard-working men like himself ;
and even in these days of agricultural
depression Robert was a prosperous man.
There were several reasons for this. Rad-ford
Farm was entirely a grazing one, and
did not suffer in our vain summers;
cattle-disease is little known in the pure
air of Dartmoor ; and Robert Wendroa
had an excellent landlord, the Duke of
Cornwall, alias the Prince of Wales.

Harriet felt that life was very hard upon

her. She was ocoinof to be married at last,
it was true ; she was going to escape from
the state of tutelage in which her parents
kept her, whilst at the same time they
broadly hinted that she was fast becoming
an old maid. But surely marriage without
the congratulations and the envy of friends,
without bridesmaids, orange-blossoms, or a
single wedding-present, would be rather a
poor affair.

Still it must be remembered that, though
everything else was lacking which made a
wedding delightful, she had a bride-groom,
and that was something. And when
Robert's dark eyes were fixed upon her,
and she listened to his stormy love-making,
she felt half intoxicated with a frightened
delight. No, come what would, if her
father and mother and all the rest of her
little world looked upon her as an outcast

as a disgrace to her family and her sex 
she must and would marry Robert Wendron
now.

I think I should die of disappointment,
if I did not,' she thought.

When a woman has been brought up to
consider marriage as the sole end and
object of her creation  when all wishes,
ambitious, interests which tend in any
other direction have been carefully stifled,
and when natural instincts have been
stimulated into abnormal growth  is she
to be blamed if she gratifies those instincts
in any way not positively unlawful
?

The fatal morning dawned ; and Harriet
arose, after a sleepless night, trembling and
shivering with agitation. Her plans were
all well laid, but at any moment they
mioht fail through some trivial accident.

When the housemaid knocked at her
door that morning, with the customary can
of hot water, Harriet answered, in a voice
of suffering,

 I have a bad headache, I shall not
come down to breakfast.*

By this means she hoped to gain an
hour ov two, before it was discovered that
she had left the house. Harriet sometimes
suffered from the prosaic but painful malady
of sick-headaches; and, on these occasions,
she was charitably left in peace.

She crept softly about when she dressed,
fearing lest her sisters in the next
room should hear her. On the night
before, she had secreted in her bed-room
a small,, black travelling bag, which she
had packed with a few toilet necessaries
and all her humble trinkets  a gold chain
and locket, some bangles, and a brooch or

two  thinking, with a little mortification
as she took them from the Japanese
lacquer-box in which they were accustomed
to repose, that her lover had given
her no betrothal ring, no present of any
kind but a handsomely-bound copy of
wesley's hymns.

The poor, lonely bride arrayed herself
in a white cashmere gown, clean, but alas !
no longer new, but somewhat frayed and
discoloured ; and her last summer's hat,
with the lace on it a little limp, and the
white ostrich feathers a little out of curl.
Far better would she have looked in her
dark, every-day gown and bonnet, but she
considered that white of some sort was de
rigueur for a bride. Then she gazed forlornly
at herself in the looking-glass.
Her once plump, rosy cheeks had grown
thin and pale during the fever of the last

few weeks, ber eves were not so briobt as

/ CD

they used to be ; she looked worried,
anxious, and shabby.

I don't seem much like a bride,' she
sighed. *Its all so very different from
what I thought it would have been years
ago.'

She waited, listening, hardly breathing,
as she heard first her father go downstairs
and peal a bell, long and loudly,
for prayers ; then her mother and sisters
follow, and lastly Clive, who, being a bad
sleeper, was generally late, and consequently
in the habit of being rated bitterly
by Mr. Marsden. The dining-room door
was heard to shut, then Harriet crept out
of her bed-room, her black bag in her
hand, and her grey waterproof cloak hiding
her tell-tale white gown,

A muffled, sonorous sound from below

assured her that the vicar was, as usual
at that hour, gabbling through the morning
service, with his family and his servants
kneeling about the room. Harriet
had just one quarter-of-an-hour of safety
before her, but she stood on the landing
trembling, her heart beating as though it
would choke her.

Oh, I don't think I can do it. I have
not strength enough even to go downstairs.'


But at that moment there flashed before
her a vision of Robert's face, white and
dangerous as she knew that face could
look, and she remembered a dreadful
threat he had made the day before  he
had intended it probably as a bitter tonic
to keep up her strength :

If you don't come to meet me at nine
o'clock tomorrow morning share), as sure
VOL. 1. Q

as I stand here, Harriet, I will go to your
father's house to fetch you.'

Between two fires, she began to crawl
downstairs, step by step, and of course
every stair, with the ' natural perversity
of inanimate matter,' creaked loudly as
she put her foot on it. The vicar's voice
grew louder as she descended, and she
heard him read, as with an ominous and
fearful meaning, a verse from the psalm

appointed for that morning's prayer.

Like as the smoke vanished, so

shalt thou drive them away, and like as

wax melted at the fire, so let the ungodly

perish.'

She stood opposite the dining-room

door for a moment or two, as if she were

incapable of moving. It seemed to her as

if that door must open, and she should

stand exposed to the amazement of the vicar
and his domestic congregation.

Then the hall clock, in its severe and
ecclesiastical looking case of unpolished
oak, began to chime the quarters. It was
nine o'clock.

Robert will come for me if I am late,'
she thought, freezing with terror, as if
death instead of a bridegroom was on his
way to claim her. It was now or never 
she must rush across the hall while the
clock was striking, its sonorous tones
would drown all sounds of her escape.

She hardly knew how her trembling
fingers opened the hall door, and closed it
again. But she was out at last  out into
a thick white autumnal fog, which made
her shiver with its chill and clammy touch.
The brown and yellow leaves were saturated



ed with moisture, little shining beads hung
on the branches and dripped from time to
time with a melancholy patter. All distant
sounds were stilled, and only a few
beards of road before her were visible.
Harriet was thankful for this shroud of
mist, she surely should be safely hidden in
it; and she remembered how the convicts
at the Dartmoor prison, not many miles
away, sometimes escaped in fogs like this,
but always  always to be retaken.

As this gloomy thought crossed her
mind, she heard heavy footsteps coming
along the lane. For an instant she was
paralysed ; she could not tell whether the
footsteps were before her or behind her,
whether they were of friend or foe.
There was in sight no friendly gate by
which she could escape and hide herself ina
field ; she could only stand still to

be met, or to be overtaken  which was
it?

A tall, dark, manly figure loomed
through the fog ; the next moment Robert
Wendron stood before her  Eobert all
spick and span and radiant, iu a new
brown velveteen coat, and a yellow rose in
his buttonhole. Harriet uttered a little
cry, half-joy, half-terror.

I was coming to the vicarage for you,
as I vowed I would!' he exclaimed, triumphantly,
' I was coming' straight into the
jaws of the lion ! It's a good job for you I
met you when I did !'

In the rapture of relief from her fears,
yet shuddering as she thought of the peril
she had so narrowly escaped, Harriet felt
that she really adored this dare-devil
bridegroom of hers, who was quite capable
of walking into her father's house, and

demanding her as his lawful property.

Were you really coming for me, Robert ?'
she asked, lovingly.

To be sure I was ! What do I care for
the parson ? You have kept me waiting
a quarter-of-an-hour as it is, my lady ;
and I wasn't going to stand any more
nonsense

So they went on together, Harriet submitting
to Robert's putting his arm round
her waist, as though she were one of the
village maidens whom he ought to have
won for his bride. Presently the whitewashed,
barn-like Bethesda became visible
through the fog. A little group of men
and women in their Sunday best were
standing in the road just outside the
chapel door, one or two farm-labourers,
and half-a-dozen children, who ought to
have been safe in school, looked on, aware

that sometliioo unusual was ofoiDo to
happen.

As the bride and bridegroom approached,
there was a little murmur in the
crowd  then old Mrs. Wendron, in a
rustling black silk gown and white China
crape shawl, detached herself from the
rest, and came forward with a smiHuo- face
and outstretched hands.

We were getting quite nervous about
you, my dear; but Eobert he said he'd get
you out from the vicarage come what
would  well, 'tis all right now, all the
friends are here and the minister is waiting.
Here, Mr. Allworthy, you give
your arm to the bride, and, Robert, you
are to walk with me, you know.'

Here a middle-aged farmer with a
weather-beaten face, looking very bashful
and awkward, came forward and poked

his elbow at the bride. Harriet managed
to oet rid somehow of her waterproof
cloak, and painfully conscious that she
looked but a poor figure in her old white
gown, and the feathers in her hat quite
out of curl from the moisture of that
foggy morning. She just touched Mr.
Will worthy's arm with the tips of her
fingers, and entered the chapel.

For it had come to this  the eldest
daughter of that Anglican priest, the
Eeverend Philip Marsden, was going to
be married in the Methodist Bethesda in
his own parish, under his own eyes. Harriet
had tried to coax E-obert into spending
the regulation fortnight at Tavistock
or Launceston, so that they might be married
at a safe and decent distance from
St. Stephen's vicarage. But he was obdurate.


Why in the world should I leave the
farm when there's ploughing and a lot of
other work to see after? You may take
your choice, Harriet : either be married atour
chapel, or have the banns put up at
your father's church. One of the two it's
bound to be. You can't leave St. Stephen's
and I won't, till we can go together.'

The audacity of the thing appalled
Harriet, and made her feel guilty of a
crime, as she entered the humble building
With its white-washed walls, and pews and
galleries of painted deal. An elderly,
rather sour-faced man, in a black coat and
clumsy white tie, was awaiting the company
in a sort of large pew in which was
a wooden table. Robert was already
standing in the pew facing the minister,
Harriet was led by Mr. Allworthy to

his side, and the rest of the party ranged

themselves a little in the background,
Harriet had never been inside a dissenting
chapel before, and she wondered what
schismatic and unhallowed words were
about to be spoken by that old minister in
his shabby black coat. But soon the
familiar ' Dearly beloved, we are gathered
together here  ' spoken in a strong West-country
accent sounded in her ears, and
portions of the marriage service of the
Church of England followed. In a few
minutes more Robert had placed the ring
on her finger, and they were pronounced
'Man and wife together.' Such a sense of
relief and safety then rushed over Harriet,
she felt delivered from some deadly peril ;
she heard little of the prayers or of the
hymn sung afterwards by quavering voices,
everything seemed dim and far away ; she
was conscious only that Robert Wendron

was her basbancl, and had a legal right to
protect her against her father and mother
and all the rest of the world.

There was a great hand-shaking and
signing of names afterwards in the tiny
vestry, and Robert gave Harriet one boisterous
kiss before them all, which overwhelmed
her with shame and confusion.
Then they sallied forth again into the
fog.

A little crowd of villagers had collected
round the chapel door, and there was a cry
of ' Wish you good luck, Mr. Wendron !'
Health and happiness to you !' But no
one ventured to utter a good wish for
Harriet, and, when the bridal-party had
walked on, an old woman muttered to
another,

He's a proper fool is Farmer Wendron,
to go marrying a useless young woman

V

like that, as calls herself a lady, where
there's a maj girls of his own sort, a
deal smarter than that poor-looking
thing, and with a bit of money too, as
would have had him, and made him a goodwife.'


And that's more than she'll ever do, a
parson's daughter and all, and her father
so full of idolatries as he is. Farmer
Wendrou can't expect no blessing on the
job he's done to-day.'

Self-willed as Robert was, he had yielded
to his bride ih one particular. He would
not oblige her to remain to the wedding-feast
which old Mrs. Wendron was oroinor
to give to the minister and the rest of her
friends, but he had promised to start with
her by the next train to Plymouth, where
they were going to spend a few days'
honeymoon. Harriet was haunted by the

fear that her father would burst into the
farm-house, and denounce her and all the
Dissenting company. There was just time
for her to change her white gown for a
dark winter one and bonnet to match,
which several days ago slu had stealthily,
and with some difficulty, conveyed to the
farm-house ; then, with Robert driving her
in his two-wheeled dog-cart, she was soon
bowling swiftly down the hill to the railway
station.

They were only just in time; the train
was signalled. In a few minutes more,
Harriet sprang into an empty second-class
carriage as a welcome shelter from the surprised
and significant glances of the railway
officials, Robert followed her, with
two return tickets for Plymouth in his
hand.

The ouard shut the door, the train

moved out of the station ; then Robert
clasped his wife in his arms and said,

There, I've got you at last, my lady, and
a pretty tough job it has been. I reckon,
if you hadn't been just a little bit more
frightened of me than you are of your
father, I should never have got you at
all. But you are my wife now, and I am
going to be very good to you, and never
frighten you any more.'

CHAPTER XII.

A Returned LETTER.

Harriet never knew how near she had
been to discovery. The Reverend PhiHp
Marsden went out that morning without
his breakfast, because he was about to
visit a sick parishioner, and to hold a
service at his bedside. He passed the
chapel on his way home, noticed the open
doorway, and the children hanging about
the threshold. A few uncertain voices
were singing a hymn, aud ho was half inclined
to cross himself, such a foul atmosphere

of schism seemed wafted through
the open doorway; then he hastened on,
and forgot all about it.

As he entered the vicarage, Janet
met him in. the hall with a vrhite, scared
face.

Papa, will you go to mamma, please ;
she is in her bed-room. We have heard
bad news this morning since you went out
something dreadful, most dreadful has
happened,' she said, in a broken voice.

Mr. Marsden shrugged his shoulders and
went upstairs reluctantly. These women
always exaggerated everything  ' bad
news,' yes, he knew very well what that
meant, the cook had given warning probably
 ' something dreadful had happened,'
yes, some chimney had caught lire, or
perhaps Master Clive had one of his numerous
headaches  and, by-the-by, what did

Harriet mean that morning by copying
her brother's bad example, and lyinginbed ?
He must, as head of the household, exert
his authority and put a stop to this kind
of thing, this fancied invalidism.

By this time he had entered his bedroom.
Mrs. Marsden lay upon a sofa, her
handkerchief up to her eyes, a letter crushed
in her hand, ether, sal-volatile, and an
open prayer book were on a little table by
her side.

'Philip,' she began, in a sepulchral voice,
a frightful calamity has befallen us, and
we have need of your prayers. Our eldest
daughter Harriet, who ought to have set
an example to her younger sisters, has
brought shame and dishonour upon us
all.'

Mrs Marsden paused to sob, and press
her handkerchief to her eyes. Her hus-vol.
I. "R

band looked upon her a little coldly and
absently. ' The imagination of a woman
is a distorting medium for facts,' bethought.


Well, my dear,' he said aloud, ' explain
yourself if you can. I may remind you
that, through performing my duty as a
priest, I have as yet had no breakfast.'

I can hardly bear to tell you,' sobbed
his wife. ' Harriet has eloped ! gone to
be secretly married to a low disreputable
person in this parish, a common farmer, a
dissenter, that abominable man Wendron
at Radford Farm. Janet went to her
room after breakfast, found her gone 1
She must have crept out of the house
whilst we were at prayers. Oh, the shameless
deceit of it all ! "We found the letter,
this cruel heartless letter  read it, Philip,

read it !' and Mrs. Marsden became almost
hysterical.

Mr. Marsden took the letter which his
wife held out to him with her eyes averted.
He had grown very pale, but he did not
speak a word until he had read the composition
which had been prepared by
Harriet with seat care.

Dear Mamma,

You have always told
us that a woman's first duties were domestic
ones, and that you brought us up with a
view to our becoming good wives and
mothers. I have never disagreed with
you, as I am sure you will say, but I saw
no prospect of my doing as you wished.
Time is going on, Lina has come out, and
I feel I might be in my sisters' way if I

li 2

remain at home, besides missing my
natural vocation]. So I have decided to
accept the only offer of marriage which I
have ever had. I know that you and papa
would never give your consent, so with
much grief at vexing you for doing what
you will disapprove, I have gone this morning
to be quietly married at Bethesda
chapel to Mr. Wendron of Radford Farm.
Of course I know he is not of my own
rank in life, and he is not at all the sort of
man I should have married if I could have
had my choice. But I could not bear the
idea of living on at home until people
began to say about me the things they
always say about old maids. I trust that
you and papa will forgive me, and will soon
come to feel that I have done a sensible
think'.

'Your affectionate daughter, ' Harriet.'

There is an old story of a man who was
noted for the frightful lanofuaare he used
when he was irritated. But one day, when
some boys, with a wicked spirit of research
into the ingenuity and variety of the
blasphemies of which he was capable, played
upon this sinner an acutely aggravating
practical joke, he disappointed their
curiosity by profound silence, broken only
by the words, 'I can't do justice to it.'

So the vicar of St. Stephen's read the
epistle, in which his daughter informed him
that she had eloped with a farmer of the
Methodist persuasion  the vicar read it
without a word or an exclamation. He
carefully folded up the letter and put it
into his pocket, then he turned to leave the
room.

Oh, Philip !' cried Mrs. Marsden, ' what
ware we to do ?'

Do !' be repeated, looking back at her
with a ghastly smile. ' Do ! why, nothing,
of course, what is there to be done ?
Except that I mean to return this letter of

your daughter's, under cover to ' he

hesitated as if he could hardly bring himself
to pronounce the name, *to Mr. Wen-iron.
I can tell you what you are not todo,
you and your other daughters are to
hold no communication whatever with
Harriet, and you are never to mention her
name again in my presence.'

Then Mr. Marsden went downstairs and
had his breakfast.

Janet returned to her mother's room,
feeling that now she was really the eldest
daughter, and must be the hope and mainstay
of her afflicted family. The mother
and daughter wept together.

How could she  how could she do it?

So deceitful, so improper, so unladylike !
What will people say ? Nobody will visit
us, it will be the most dreadful thing for
you and Lina, quite injure your prospects
'

Oh, pray don't trouble yourselves
about my prospects,' said Lina, entering
the room. ' I don't suppose my having a
sister married to a Methodist farmer Avill
prevent my being a teacher in a High
schooL'

'Lina, you will break my heart!'
shrieked her mother : ' is it not enough
that Harriet has disgraced herself?'

Que voidez-vous answered Lina, with a
shrug of her graceful shoulders. ' Why
blame poor Harriet, mother, who, instead
of being strong-minded, as you say I amin
wishing to be independent  why blame
poor Harriet for trying to fulfil her woman's

destiny in the only way open to

her?'

I am horrified at sou, Lion,' replied Mrs.

Marsden, severely. ' Of course Harriet

micrht have made an excellent match some

day, if she had chosen.'

Janet involuntarily sighed.

'I don't see there is much chance of

that for any of us. And really, mamma,

Mr. Wendron may not be so very bad
after all. He is a very good-looking man.
And of course as he is so much beneath
Harriet in every way, ho Avill be very
proud of her and respectful to her, and let
her have her own way in everything. She
will have a house of her own, at all events ;'
and again Janet gave a wistful sigh.

*My dear Janet! He is a Dissenter I'
cried Mrs. Marsden. ' A low, vulgar
Dissenter ! How can Harriet be happy

with him? I must tell you that your
papa, as a clergyman, has strictly forbidden
us ever to speak to Harriet again,
or even to mention her name to him. Of
course if I find out that Harriet is very
wretched, as I am sure she will be, or in
want of the common necessaries of life
in that miserable old farm-house, I
shall do what I can to help her in a
quiet way.'

Olive Marsden, who, like his father, said
very little when he was most strongly
moved, sat alone in the dining-room,
sketching a design for a mantelpiece
border, with an angrj and impatient
energy. When his sisters joined him,
and Janet began another tearful lamentation
over Harriet, Olive stopped her
abruptly.

Don't let us talk about it. I have

never seen the man, that I am aware of,
but I have nob the slightest doubt that he
eats with his knife, and has a bath at long
intervals. Bah ! That a sister of mine
should so degrade herself ! No, don't let
liS talk about it. I feel degraded myself.'


Clive had some belief in that curious
masculine myth, which would make even
him, a boy of eighteen, responsible for
the conduct of a sister ten years his
senior.

Here Mr. Marsden came into the room
and began walking up and down without
speaking, in a gloomy monotony of creaking
boots, which made his sou rind
his teeth. Why  oh why, if the vicar
wished for a constitutional of this sort,
wd}y did he not take it in his own study?
why must he come into the dining-room 

the common sifting-room of the family
in the morning  to drive them all wild ?

But up and down, up and down creaked
Mr. Marsden for about twenty minutes,
nobody venturing to speak to him ; at last
he stood still, and said, in a cold and
bitter voice,

I wish no discussion, no gossip about
what has happened this morning. I look
upon your eldest sister as simply dead and
buried. But this I have to say  I feel
that you have, all of you, been allowed to
go on in much too lax and self-indulgent
a maimer. At least, I have no particular
fault to find with you, Janet; I don't
suppose'  and he could not resist a sneer
' you wili ever be tempted by any man
to follow your sister Harriet's example,
and when your parents are dead, and have
no further need of you, you can go into

a sisterhood. It is you two younger ones
I am more particularly addressing; it is
you who stand in need of much stricter
discipline.'

Mr. Marsden had a peculiar talent for
expressing himself in an irritating manner,
and, like many other parents, he was an
adept in the art of ' provoking his children
to wrath.' But Lina merely held her head
a little higher, and compressed her lips
together, while Olive reddened and kicked
the table, but went on drawing, and tried
to appear as though he was not listening.

I shall have to place two alternatives
before you, Clive. If you persist in throwing
away all your chances of going to
Oxford, because you fancy that reading
any books except novels makes your headache
 then the only thing you can do is
to come down a little in the social scale.

T shall get you a clerkship of some sort,
were you will have nothing to do but to
sit upon a high stool from morning till night
and copy letters, and that sort of work,
which will not tax even your feeble brain.
I have not the slightest intention o supporting
you in idleness much longer. At
your age a young fellow ought to be doing
something in the world, instead of moping
about the house and doing a sort of fancy
work, and conducting himself generally
like a hysterical member of the feebler sex.'
Clive made no reply : he was in the
habit of putting a strong control upon
himself when his father appeared to deliberately
try to irritate him  a control
for which he often paid dearly afterwards
by throbbing brain and palpitating heart,
and a sense of his nervous system being
strained all over.

Mr. Marsden resumed his walk up and
down the room for some minutes. Perhaps
he was considering whether Lisa
was worth his notice ; at last he gave
her a slight, contemptuous glance, and
said :

Let me recommend you, Lina, to put
aside all your conceited and unbecoming
notions. No daughter of mine shall ever
quit the shelter of her home to follow
an independent course. It is enough that
one member of the family has disgraced
herself; once for all, Lina, I request you
to leave alone studies which you have the
gross presumption to imagine you understand.
My heaviest displeasure will rest
upon you if I ever again see you with a
Greek or Latin author in your hand.'

And then, with the complacency which
comes from duty well performed, the vicar

went back to bis study to read one of the
Fathers.

That day week, Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Waldron returned from their brief wedding-journey.
Harriet, looking very happy and
quite handsome, with a bright colour on
her cheeks, drove up the hill beside her
husband, triumphant in the thought that
she was coming, a bride, to her own home,
farm-house though it was, and feeling that
it was very pleasant to have a carriage to
drive in, even though it was nothing buta
two-wheeled dog-cart.

Robert drove into the farmyard, stopped
at the granite porch, sprang out, and helped
his wife down with a fond, protecting air,
as though he liked an excuse for putting
his arms round her. Old Mrs. Wendron
came to the door to meet them with a
beaming face, and Harriet, who really liked

ber mother-in-law, kissed her heartily ; and
so, a cheerful trio, talking: and laughing
and asking a number of questions, they
went into the farm-house parlour, which
looked the very home of comfort. A great
ere blazed on the hearth, and lighted up,
with a ruddy glow, the gathering gloom of
the October evening. A white damask
cloth was spread on the table, the best
pink china tea-cups gleamed, there was a
great home-cured ham, a glass bowl of
Devonshire junket, cakes, cream, and other
good things.

Let me take you upstairs to your room,
my dear, you have not seen it yet. There's
a letter or two for you, Robert, on the
bureau there  ' and so Mrs. Marsden
took Harriet upstairs into the spacious bedroom
with casement windows curtained
with white dimity, chairs and sofas and an

immense four-post bed, of massive mahogany,
bung with large flowered chintz ;
there was a faint smell of lavender, and
everything was fresh, clean, and old-world.


Ob, how delightful ! what a charming
old room !' cried Harriet, in raptures with
the quaint shield-shaped looking-glass, with
the bright brass handles of the chests of
drawers, with the antique blue of the toilet
ware, the wonderful samplers in black
frames, the old Staffordshire delft fissures
on the high mantelshelf  in raptures with
everything.

My dear, I do hope you will be happy,
in your new home,' said Mrs. Wendron,
delighted with Harriet's delight. ' It is
all very plain and homely, I know, after
what you have been used to.'

I am sure I shall bo happy. Robert

VOL. I. s

has been awfully kind to me since we have
been away  ever so much kinder than I
thought he could be,' replied Harriet,
naively. ' And I am so glad you are going
to live with us.'

It is very good of you to say so, my
dear. I should have felt it hard to leave
my old home, and Robert has always been
a good son to me, only you know, my
dear  ' the mother hesitated a little 
Robert will have his own way. I've never
crossed him in anything great or small,
and so we've always got on together.'

Harriet's face fell a little ; were these
the only terms on which one could continue
to live happily with Robert ? Her mother-in-law
evidently thought she was giving
the bride some valuable hints ; and there
was no one to retort upon the old lady,
You have spoiled your son from his childhood,

and the wife may have to suffer for
the mother's fault.'

To be sure, Robert was masterful,
thought Harriet, she had known that from
the first ; in his inferior social position, he
would never have won her if he had not
been. She liked a man to be strong, even
a little rough and overbearing (in theory).
But it was quite another thing to have
to give up all one's own wishes, to
have to yield in everything, for a lifetime.


However, Harriet tried to forget this
slight shadow of annoyance which Mrs.
Wendron had cast upon her. She took
off her bonnet, and arranged her glossy
black hair : and presently she went downstairs
in a new gown of grey velveteen
with a knot of crimson ribbon at her
throat, one of the various purchases she

3 2

had made at Plymouth. She went downstairs
smiling complacently ; as she crossed
the narrow stone-paved entrance hall, she
heard Robert call to her from a small room
he had named his ' den.'

Harriet, come here !' he said, in a
voice she had never heard him speak
before.

Startled, she Event in. Her husband
was standing at the table, an open letter
spread before him, his clenched fist resting
on it. There was a caudle on the table
which cast a faint light on the dusky walls,
on the old-fashioned bureau littered with
papers, and on the guns and riding-whips
ranged over the mantelpiece. As Harriet
entered the room, he looked up, and confronted
her with a face which perfectly
terrified her.

There,' and he struck the letter with

this fist, * there's a pretty sort of letter
for you to write about your husband !'

What letter !' she gasped, ' 1 don't know
what you mean.'

This  this letter,' he thundered,
 that you wrote to your mother about
me ! The parson has sent it back
aoain.'

Harriet saw it all then  saw the letter
she had left in her bed-room on the morning
she had gone to be married  saw it in
her husband's hand.

Oh, Robert she said, turning sick and
faint as she realized the deadly blow
which her father had given her.
Eobert, I never meant you to see that
letter.'

jSTo, I'll be bound you didn't,' he
answered, fiercely. ' Here, look here !'
and he held the letter up with one hand

and struck it with the other, 'you say I
am not at all the sort of man you would
have married if you could have had your
choice ;' and he looked at his wife as if he
were ready to strike her, for she had
wounded him in one of his most vulnerable
points, his vanity.

I didn't mean it !' she cried, in anguish,
it was not true !'

' Oh, you put lies in your letters, do you?
But I'll tell you what  whether I am the
sort of man you wanted to marry or
not, I am your husband now, and your
master too, and you shan't deceive me, I
can tell you !' and he almost choked with
rage.

Eobert  Eobert !' she sobbed, ' I don't
deceive you, I do love you, I love you
dearly.'

It looks so like your loving me, doesn't

it?' and he put the letter clown on the
table again, and stood frowning at it, with
his hands thrust into his pockets. ' You
say in plain words, without mincing the
matter, that you married me just because
you didn't want to be an old maid ;' and
he oave a short, savage lauo:h.

Oh, what can I do  what can I do to
make you understand ?' she cried, overwhelmed
with shame. * I wrote that letter
just to try to satisfy mamma, to make her
feel that I had done a sensible thing, which
would please her by-and-by, when she had
got over being angry with me. What was
the good of telling her the truth  that I,
really  really loved you ?'

Robert made no answer, he would not
even look at her, but kept his eyes fixed
on the letter, and Harriet began to feel
she had signed her own death-warrant.

How could papa have been so unkind
to me r' she murmured ; and, between her
husband and her father, she began to
realize, as she had never done before,
something of the peculiar cruelty with
which men  even those worthy of respect
are capable of treating women.

But Robert, though she did not know it,
was softening towards his wife of one
week. Her words, her heart-rending tone,
I love you, I really love you !' were too
genuine for him to doubt her. Still he
was determined to hold out as long as he
could ; she must be punished for that
letter, he thought, before he could forgive
her.

Harriet was driven to desperation by
his continued silence ; she thought she saw
all her happiness slipping away from her.
Eobert turned as if to leave the room ; she

sprang after him with bands outstretched,
sobbing bitterly, ' Robert  Robert, won't
you forgive me ?'

Then he could be obdurate no longer.
He took her in his arms and kissed her.
Yes, I forgive you, Harriet, I forgive you,
my dear, but it was an uncommonly nasty
letter for you to write. However, I'll say
no more about it.'

After a minute or two of this bittersweet
reconciliation, Robert said  * Look
here, I'll burn the letter  ' and he held it
in the flame of the candle until it was consumed
 ' and now come with me into the
parlour to tea.'

Oh, I can't just yet,' answered Harriet,
still trembling with the emotion she bad
gone through. ' I can't face your mother
until I have bathed my eyes, what would
she think ? the first evenings of our coming

 "* ' v--.

home ;' and again the poor bride shed
tears.

'Very well, I'll stop here till you come
downstairs again ;' and Robert gave a sigh
in his turn. Perhaps the bridegroom also
felt the irony of the situation.

In a few minutes Harriet reappeared,
and they went into the parlour, side by
side in silence, and took their seats at the
table, where Mrs. Wendron was impatiently
awaiting them.

Shall I make tea, Robert, or shall
Harriet?' asked the old lady, pausing a
little reluctantly, with her hand on the
antique silver tea-pot.

Oh, settle it between yourselves,' was
Robert's brusque reply, as he threw himself
back in his chair, with a look which
meant, 'Don't you women bother me about
your domestic affairs.'

Harriet answered meekly, yet with a
firm resolution which she had made from
the first day of her engagement, that Mrs.
Wendron senior should do all the housekeeping
that she could be made to do,

Oh, please, dear Mrs. Wendron, do
make the tea, as you have been accustomed
to do it.'

Well, my dear,' replied the old lady,
with an arch complacence, ' I daresay I do
know better than you how Robert likes
his tea. I have had more experience, you
see.'

Mrs. Wendron had plenty to say to her
son about all that had happened in the
poultry-yard, the dairy, and the farm generally,
during his unwonted absence of a
week. She did not observe that both
bride and bridegroom were rather silent :
that Robert looked gloomy, and Harriet

depressed, and that a sort of chill constraint
bad come over them both.

The fatal letter was never mentioned
again ; but it had done its work, and Mr.
Marsden's little poisoned arrow had gone
straight to the mark. Robert never forgot
that his wife had written of him as if
he were her useful, humble tool ; she
might try to explain away her words, but
they aroused once more a vague suspicion
which had sometimes annoyed him in the
first days of their engagement. Would a
young lady, a parson's daughter, want to
marry him, if she could have found a husband
in her own class ?

And Harriet would never forget that
she had been humiliated in the first hour
of her entering her husband's house. Her
face burned when she remembered Robert's
harsh words, and how she had been

forced to bumble herself before be would
forgive ber. Au enemy bad sown tares
amongst their wheat  their household love
and happiness.

CHAPTER XIII.

CECILIA MAKES A DISCOVERY.

Cecilia Tremayne was stanclin at her
bed-room window, which looked over the
lawn and shrubbery of the vicarage
garden. The room was a haze of tender
blue, like an autumnal mist  ceiling, wallpaper,
doors, wainscot, mantelpiece, everything*
was pale blue  except a square of
olive-green carpet on the oak-brown floor,
and the cream-coloured linen curtains
embroidered with forget-me-nots.

There were jars and vases of real
Wedgwood porcelain on the dressing-table
and chimney-piece ; pale blue
ground, soft as satin to the touch, with
Flaxman's classic designs in low relief.
There were two or three delicate brown
engravings by Bartolozzi in oval frames ;
Avoient with sweet, serene faces, and the
picturesque mob-caps and kerchiefs of the
last century. All this spoke of Cecilia's
refined, artistic taste, and peculiar liking
for what was graceful and a little quaint.
Two photographs hung over the fireplace
which bore witness to the other very
different side of Cecilia's nature. One
was a portrait of Joseph Mazzini, the
other of Michael Davitt.

Life had seemed very flat to Cecilia
since that afternoon she had spent at
MorwcU Lodge, in the company of Maurice

O'Donovau. She had bad one brief
glimpse or the world in which she honored
to live  the world of secret politics, of
struggle for a proscribed cause, of fighting
for a people's liberty against a strong
and despotic government.

Cecilia was a born revolutionist ; she
had affinities with the noble Hungarian
and Slavonic (whether Russian or Polish)
women who have endured untold agonies
for their country's cause ; like them, she
would have gone to the scaffold with a
smile on her lips, or would have suffered
torture rather than betray a comrade.
But Cecilia was only a prosperous English
lady, in a land of settled freedom ; not for
her was death and martyrdom, not for
her even the honours of Hannah Reynolds,
the first Irishwoman of our own
day who was imprisoned as a political

offender ; not for her were the hairbreadth
escapes of that other noble girl
who evaded the Dublin detectives and fled
to Liverpool with the sterno-plates of the
proscribed. Nationalist journal in her
trunks. Life was all prosaic, tame and
easy to Cecilia Tremayne, and she envied
the heroic sorrows of Kathleen Rivers.

Whilst thus musing sadly, and wishing
she could have accompanied her friend in
any humble capacity on that secret mission
to Ireland, the maid-servant knocked
at her door and said,

 Mrs. Rivers is in the drawing-room,
if you please, ma'am.'

With a little cry of joy Cecilia ran
downstairs. Mrs. Rivers was talking
with Mr. Tremayne, like auy other well-bred
woman in London society. The
double life she led, as the wife of the

VOL. I. T

English member of Parliament, and as the
sister of the Irish felon, had never been
more vividly realised by Cecilia than at that
moment. The vicar was in total ignorance
of his charming visitor's little trip
to Ireland, and he imagined that she had
been at Morwell Lodge ever since the
garden-party a fortnight ago.

And when does Mr. Rivers return to
England ?' the vicar was asking, as Cecilia
entered the room.

Next month, I think. He is in the
far west, renewing his youth in a
young world  so he tells me. I would
be more lonely than I am,' she went
on, in the most self-possessed manner,
after she had greeted Cecilia, ' but my
brother Mr. 0' Donovan has come to
spend a few weeks with me at Morwell
Lodge.'

Mr. Tremayne looked rather inquiringly
at Mrs. Rivers. A very Irish name,
thought he  can this be one of the 



actionable relations he had heard someone
hint that Mrs. Rivers possessed ?

I trust I shall have the pleasure of
calling on Mr. O'O'Donovan very shortly.
I hope that, like yourself, he will be
able to bear the extreme quiet, I suppose
I ought nob say dulness, of this
place.'

'You will always have a welcome whenever
you come, Mr. Tremayne. But I
fear my brother will be able to go very
little into society, his health is not at all
strong. And, lest you may wonder at
his non-appearance at church, I think I
ought to tell you that he is a Catholic'

The vicar's face brightened. He prided
himself on his toleration, and always said

T 2

that the Woman Catholic religion was emphatically
one for gentlemen. His contempt
for the village Methodists was not
bigotry  by no means, only an aristocratic
scorn for things 'common and
unclean.'

'Mr. O'O'Donovan will brings a new and
pleasant element into the monotony of our
lives at Morwell,' said the vicar. ' He is
Irish, of course ?'

Well, he undoubtedly is,' replied Mrs.
Rivers, slightly smiling.

And the Church of Rome is therefore
his national church,' Mr. Tremayne remarked,
benevolently.

'Ah!' thought Cecilia, 'and is not the
church of "Wesley equally the church of
Cornwall ?'

'If you have nothing better to do this

afternoon, Cecilia, will you have tea with
me?' asked Kathleen.

Cecilia started a little, and her face
flushed brightly.

I shall be ready directly,' she said, as
she left the room.

A few minutes afterwards Mr. Tree
was bowing and smiling farewell
on his doorstep, and the two ladies were
bowling swiftly along the drive.

You will be surprised at our coming
back to Morwell so soon,' began Kathleen,
but my brother became quite ill in London.
The very noise and confusion in the
streets were more than he could bear.
Cecilia, I hardly realised how broken in
health and nerve he is, till I saw him  a
man in the prime of life, a man naturally
s brave as Mansfield  till I saw him

shrink and look quite pale and bewildered
when he tried to cross a crowded London
thoroughfare ; and even meeting some old
friends was too much for his strength.
Their wild joy over him, their wanting to
fete him, and get up banquets and meetings
for him  it was just killing him. I
was only a few days in Ireland, when I
returned to London I found him ill, unable
to sleep or eat ; and so I prevailed
upon him to come back with me to Mor-well
Lodge for perfect rest and quiet, so
that he may get some strength by the
time Parliament meets, and our leading
men return to London. Oh, Cecilia, when
I see the ravages that prison life has made
in him, when I think of all that he has
gone through  is there any justice in
Heaven or earth, I wonder ?'

Kathleen,' faltered Cecilia, hardly

knowing what to say,  such a little while
has passed since his release, he has had no
time yet to recover. You must try to
think of him as a soldier wounded in
battle  all his sufferings have been glorious
ones.'

'Ah! I don't know,' replied Kathleen,
with a dark and despondent look ; ' there
are some sufferings which degrade even a
martyr, which leave an intolerable brand
of shame even on the purest and loftiest
souls. Penal servitude is that, I imagine
and then to think how many of our
noblest countrymen have suffered it ! Ah,
it would have been more merciful to put
them to death  too merciful for the
English government !'

Kathleen, Kathleen, don't talk like
that!' cried her friend, in anguish, 'don't
make me hate my country !'

You dear Celtic soul,' returned Kathleen,
with a mournful, tender smile, ' no, I
will vex you no more. I will not visit
Saxon crimes on you. Well, now, Mr.
Tremayne has put me in a little dilemma.
In his charming courtesy and kindness of
heart he will certainly call on Maurice.
He would not do so, that is equally certain,
if he knew that Maurice had just
been released from Dartmoor prison. But,
if I told Mr. Tremayne the whole truth,
he would not only cut us both dead, but
would request you to hold no further communication
with either of us.'

I should refuse to comply with such a
request,' returned Cecilia, proudly.

I quite believe it. But then, don't you
see, that would make things very unpleasant
for you at home. Jo, I cannot
undertake the responsibility of doing what

would probably lead to a serious difference
between yourself and your uncle. Well,
if Mr. Tremayne pays us a visit we cannot
help it. It is the Government which has
placed us in this false position, not our owu
choice, certainly. I can only promise for
my brother that he will not allow any
English household (but my husband's) to
be profaned by the presence of a convict.
Mr. Tremayne's call will not be returned
in person. I will leave Maurice's card at
the vicarage,' she said, with a bitter little '
laugh.

They had by this time come to Morwell
Lodge.

Will you go into the drawing-room,
Cecilia, whilst I drive round to the stable.
I will be with you in a moment. Maurice
has gone for a walk, but I expect him home
soon.'

Cecilia alighted at the little garden-gate
and walked up to the house. The
front door stood open and she entered
the hall, went to the drawing-room,
and then started back, and stood on the
threshold.

Maurice O'O'Donovan was reclining in an
arm-chair, sound asleep ; his thin hands
resting on a newspaper, which lay open on
his knees. On the floor was a confused
pile of periodicals, evidently he was still
pursuing his historical researches. Cecilia
was struck, even more than she was at
their first meeting, with the worn, exhausted
look of the still youthful face. His
sleep might have been death, so profound
was the unconsciousness of that
white, still countenance  death after torturing
illness  'long disquiet merged in
rest.'

As Cecilia looked at bim in ' the touching
helplessness of sleep,' there awoke in
ber the strongest instinct of a true woman
the desire to protect and cherish the
ill-used and suffering; and from the mingling
of this compassion with the reverence
sbe already felt for the man wbo bad
endured everything, short of deatb,fortbe
sake of bis country  there suddenly leaped
up in ber the lightning flame of passion.
Sbe snook from bead to foot ; a mystic
voice seemed calling to ber that sbe bad
met ber doom  half-blinded and bewildered,
sbe turned and found ber way out into
the garden.

Sbe stood there motionless, stunned
with a new and terrible experience. Mrs.
Rivers joined ber presently, and said, in
some surprise,

What is the matter, Cecilia ? you look
quite pale and scared.'

The blood rushed back to Cecilia's face,
her senses returned to her, and she answered,
with her usual self-possession,

I was a little startled by finding Mr.
O'O'Donovan asleep in the drawing-room. I
only hope I did not startle him ;' and she
tried to smile.

Mrs. Rivers did not smile.

Ah, you can have no idea  I did not find
it out at first  how broken down he is.
Everything seems to fatigue him ; when
he has been reading for a little while, he
constantly falls asleep like this. And
yet he hardly sleeps at night, and I
often hear him walking up and down his
room.'

Well, nothing can be more restful than
this little house of yours.'

'I trust he finds it so. Indeed, he could
get no rest in London. The truth is,
Cecilia, it was not all rejoicing, not all the
welcome you might have expected it to be.

Or rather, it tuas all that at first, but

Well, you remember I told you that
Maurice always believed in the hopelessness
of the attempted rising in -7 ; yet he
felt bound in honour to take the part
which brought upon him this awful punishment
which he has suffered ever since.
Would you not imagine he had suffered
enough ? But there are men who have
given up nothing for Ireland, who have
been free and prosperous while he has been
in penal servitude  and they taunt hlni !
They plot and scheme and dream  it maybe
of worse things than open warfare, and,
when he implores them to give up their
mad and wicked folly, they say English

prisons have done for horn what English
gold has done for some other Irishmen.
As if a man of nearly thirty did not see
more clearly than the mere boy he was
when he was tried and condemned ! He
bore all their taunts patiently, he would not
listen to me when I raved against their
injustice to him  for imagine being released
from an English prison only to be called
a traitor by Irishmen ! " These men areas
patriotic as you or I," he said, "only unhappily
we don't agree as to the best way
of serving our country. But for my part
I will have none of that distrust and
denunciation of each other which have been
Ireland's curse in days gone by. We are
all comrades and fellow-workers ; all who
love our country and strive to make it
free"'

But there must be a large number of

Nationalists who would agree thoroughly
with jour brother

Certainly. But you must remember
that men have come to the front since
Maurice was sent to prison to whom he is
little beyond a name. And these he has
not yet met. They are not in London at
present, nor will they be there until Parliament
meets again. Early next session I
trust he will become personally acquainted
with some of them  men whom he looks
upon as our country's hope. Now, let us
go into the drawing-room. I think,
Cecilia,' and the harassed look on Kathleen's
face gave place to one of her
peculiarly sweet smiles, ' I think you will
be a sort of Good Samaritan to Maurice,
when some of his countrymen pass by on
the other side. You show him just the
sort of kindness that he wants  you

refresh bis weary brain by the novelty' of
English sympathy ; you save him from
thinking of the unkindness of supposed
friends by showing him how compassionate
a supposed enemy can be.'

A strange shiver ran through Cecilia, at
Mrs. Rivers' cordial, yet lightly spoken
words. But she was calm, even a little
cold in manner, as they entered the ,
and found the ex-convict again
studying his scattered heap of newspapers.
His pallid face lighted up as they
came in.

You see, I have come back to Dartmoor,
Miss Tremayne,' he began, gaily. ' I
have not got as far as the prison yet. But
there are plenty of people who wish me
there again, and not all of them your
countrymen either ;' and now there was
something sad in his smile. 'My kind

sister gives me a delightful resting-place
on the road, and it is very kind of sou,
Miss Tremayne, not to refuse to be in the
same room with aticket-of-leave man.'

Cecilia had never before found it so difficult
to express herself. Her ' Serene Highness
' was shy and embarrassed in the
presence of the ex-convict. She answered,
in a low tone,

I am honoured by being allowed to be in
the same room with a real patriot. To bea
patriot in England generally means wanting
your country to do all sorts of aggressive
and despotic things to other countries
to be a bully, in fact. In Ireland, a
patriot means '

A felon, sometimes,' said Maurice, smiling.
' But you must know, Miss Tremayne,
I am not at all a violent man. I am
not a Fenian now, I am only a .

I. u

water constitutionalist, as somebody called
me the other day. Considering that we are
not allowed to form volunteer corps ,- and
that you have a respectable army, and
the biggest fleet in the world, I am inclined
to think that the idea of fighting you
was the maddest which ever entered an
unhappy people's mind. It is an idea
for which some of us have paid pretty
dearly, however. But if we had succeeded
beyond our wildest hopes  if, for instance,
we had taken Dublin or Cork, so much the
worse for us, a couple of English gunboats
would simply have bombarded the city into
ruins. I am talking treason, however ; not
only from an English, but from a certain
Irish, point of view also. Some of my
friends forget that the days are past when
the walls of Jericho fell down before the
mere blast of a trumpet.'

Bat your leaders dow are practical men
not mere visionaries,' said Cecilia.

Yes, I find that a great change has
come over Ireland whilst I have been in
my grave. We have at last some idea of
adjusting means to ends ; and the wisest
of us have relinquished war for diplomacy.'

And Ireland has found her Cavour in
Charles Stuart Parnell,' Cecilia added.

Maurice did not respond; a certain shadow
passed over his face, and for the first time
he and Cecilia seemed out of sympathy.

My brother would agree with your
estimate of Mr. Parnell much better than
with that of Count Cavour,' interposed
Mrs. Rivers, quickly.

Well, I will say this,' Maurice went on
' to liken ourselves to those Hungarians,
who have met with so much sympathy in
England  we are abandoning the party of

u2

Kossuth for that of Dear, and I have faith
that we will gain Home-rule as he did. I
am no separatist ; I might be, if 1 could
alter natural laws, and unmoor Ireland from
her present position, to anchor her a few
leagues nearer the United States. As it
is, give us the same right to manage our
own affairs that Canada has, and in time
you will find us as loyal to the English
crown as Canada is. There was a day,
you know, when Canadians rebelled in
order to gain Home-rule; and when a
price was put on the head of the man
who afterwards became their Prime
Minister.'

At this moment, the door opened, and a
servant appeared with the tea-tray.
Cecilia observed that, instead of the simple
country girl who was the usual parlour
maid at Morwell Lodge, they were waited

upon this afternoon by a somewhat 
elderly woman. Her
large mob-cap covered silvery hair, her
plain black silk gown clad a tall and still
upright and slender figure. Her delicately
featured face was deadly pale, and her
lips were compressed as though she was
putting a strong constraint upon herself to
hide some acute suffering. As she set
down the tea-tray, Cecilia noticed that her
hands were trembling. Just as she was
about to leave the room again, her eyes met
Cecilia's for one second, an inquiring,
wistful, almost terrified glance shot
out of the woman's eyes, then her lips
began to quiver, and she went hastily
away.

I have made a change in my little
household here, as you see, Cecilia. I
want some one to look after Maurice, if, as

is possible, I have to go up to London fora
week or two. So I have brought down
my housekeeper from town. I don't think
you have ever seen her before. Mr.
Rivers and I brought her with us from
America last year, and we think her quite
a treasure, there is something so peculiarly
refined and gentle about her. I must tell
you that she is English by birth, though
she has lived with her brother in Illinois
for the last twenty years. Her name is
Penrose.'

Then she is a Cornishworaan surely,'
said Cecilia.

Well, if so, it is the more odd that she
was so disinclined to come down to the
west with me. I suppose she thought it
would be very dull here after London.
But I really feared I would have come to
a quarrel with her about it, then suddenly

she changed her mind, and seemed quite
eaofer to come. There is something a little
odd about her at times, with all her excellent
qualities.'

 Her face seems somehow familiar to me

remarked Cecilia.

Oh, I am sure she had not come when
you last staved with us in London. However,
mj dear Cecilia, I don't want to be
inflicting upon you any more hateful gossip
about servants. I suppose you have read
that book, Justin M'Carthy's " History of
our own Time," which Maurice says is a
pearl of great price to him?'

'It is just what a man, who has been
dead and buried for the last seven years,
wants to read when he comes to life again,'
said Maurice.

*Ah, had he indeed come back to life
again ?' thought his sister, gazing at him

with tender wistful eyes, seeing the look of
exhaustion which was coming over his face.
Even the small excitement of talking
to Cecilia was almost too much for
him. ' We have had enough politics for
the present,' she thought; and then she
said aloud,

Cecilia, tell me, what can I do to make
this room look a little more furnished.
Does it not strike you, now that autumn
has come, as being a little cold and
bare ? Indian matting and linen curtains
are all very well for the summer.'

Cecilia with diSBculty forced her troubled
mind to attend to small matters of furniture
and decoration, which at any other
time she would have considered worthy
her profoundest attention.

Then, when the afternoon was nearly
over, and she had bid the brother and

sister good-bye, and was walking homeward
along that prosaic high-road which
had become to her the way to a strange
and vivid world, in which she had sudden
glimpses of the struggles and the passions
which form the undercurrent of a nation's
history  then in her ears there rang the
wild words of Elaine:

I have gone mad ; I love you, let me die.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON: iKINTBD 11 Y DUNCAN .Macdonald, Blenheim Louse.

I l*

Daybreak

mmy- Spend er

;-: : .- . . .-,.r-:- v .: : . 

** t T



SUBSCRIPTION ,

186, STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.

NOVELS are issued to and received from Subscribers in Sets only.

TERMS.

FOR SUBSCRIBERS OBTAINING The'" BOOKS FROM A COUNTRY BOOKSTALL I
- . - , , r , 6 Months. . ia Month*

For ONE Volume at a time --0 12 0-110

(Novels in more than One Volume are not available for this class of Subscription.)

For TWO Volumes  - - - O 17 6 - 1 11 6

(novels in more than Two Volumes are not available for this doss of Subscription. J

Z r 1%S K  ,,-180-220

f" FOUR   . . - i 8 o - 2 lO O

For SIX  . 118 0-880

For TWELVE   - - . 8 O O -8 8 O \\

HrjForT

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of 

v.2j

VOL. II.

BY

EMILY SPENDER

AUTHOR OF
U

"restored, "a true marriage,'

&c. &c.

One equal temper of heroic hearts
Made weak by time and fate, hut strong in will
To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield'"

Tennyson.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1881).

All rights reserved.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

+

http://www.archive.org/details/untildaybreaks02spen

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER I.

THE ROSE AND THE SHAMROCK.

The changes which come in human life
are generally slow and gradual, like those
in the world of nature. But sometimes
the volcanic fires burst forth, and alter
the face of the country in an hour. Such
a catastrophe had now befallen Cecilia
Tremayne. The woman who had lived
her life of thirty years in a round of small,

VOL. II. b

daily duties and daily pleasures, peaceful
if somewhat monotonous and uneventful,
now, for the first time, felt the upheaving
and devastating force of passionate love.

The whole world had changed to her.
Love took all pleasure, all meaning out of
her homely, everyday pursuits, it killed
all her delight in her flowers, her birds,
her little art-treasures; it filled her nights
with wild dreams, and waking of anguish ;
her whole life was burned and withered
up, as when a fiery wind sweeps over the
pastures in a southern land.

Always in her past life her wish had
been like the poet's :

And most of all would I flee the cruel madness of love,
The honey of poison-flowers, and all the measureless ill.'

The days when she did not go to Mor-well
Lodge tormented her with cravings ;
she said to herself :

4 If I see him tomorrow for one half-hour,
I shall be satisfied.'

And tomorrow came, and with it that
one feverish, vivid half-hour, which left
her ten times more miserable than she
was before. For seeing Maurice was to
her only like a shipwrecked sailor trying
to quench his thirst with salt water.

She kept so careful a guard upon herself
that sometimes she was a little cold
and constrained ; then her love for him
would enable her to forget herself entirely,
and she would rise above her suffering in
her attempt to cheer and amuse him.

Maurice was always gentle, always
courteous; he always welcomed her; but
there was the perpetual consciousness of
a great gulf fixed between them, which no
good wishes, no kindly feelings on either
side could bridge over. He was interested

b 2

in Cecilia, lie admired her, be was touched
and a little amused by her enthusiasm for
the cause for which he had endured so
much. Perhaps to compare it with the
liking of a great artist or musician for an
intelligent and sympathetic amateur, would
best describe the sort of feeling Maurice
had for Cecilia.

One day she said to herself, bitterly :
He never for one moment forgets that I
am English She even fancied that sometimes
he was inclined to repel her sympathy
with his National aspirations.

You are not very loyal to your own
country, Miss Tremayne,' he had said, half
reprovingly.

Why should I be loyal when my
country plays the hateful part of tyrant?'

Tell me,' he went on, with that peculiarly
winning smile of his, ' tell me what

first made you take an interest in the Irish
national cause

1 Simply,' she answered, ' because all
my life long, my heart and soul have been
with the cause of oppressed nationalities
all over the world. When I was quite a
little child, my hero was Kossuth, just as
afterwards it was Garibaldi. I worshipped
Victor Emmanuel too ; I remember
actually crying with joy when Venice
was freed, and I did much the same when
I read of the king's glorious entry into
Rome.'

The cold shadow came again over
Maurice's face, and the gulf between him
and Cecilia seemed wider than ever.

'You must not expect me to take the
same view of affairs in Italy that you do.
As a Catholic, I cannot forget that the
Holy Father is a prisoner.'

Cecilia crimsoned with the consciousness
that she had made a terrible slip.

1 I beg your pardon, I did not think of
that. I remember now,' she added, with
irrepressible bitterness, 'Irishmen went
out to Italy to fight against the people.'

Maurice made no answer ; and Cecilia
thought that after all Englishmen were not
the only people who were inconsistent
where oppressed nationalities were concerned.
She felt a sense of repulsion to
Maurice, which was only one of the various
and inevitable symptoms of her love for
him.

1 He is cold and narrow-minded,' thought
she, ' cold to everything and everybody that
is not Irish.'

But it was that certain outward coldness
in his disposition which was one of his
strongest attractions to Cecilia. If a man

bad looked at her with eyes of tender longing,
if he had whispered soft, sugared compliments
in her ear, if he had ever attempted
to caress her, Cecilia believed that she
would have loathed him. The only man
who could win her, with her pride, her
enthusiasm, her passionate purity, must bethe
same compound of fire and ice as herself,
must be a man of severe and simple
life, a man of lofty aims and self-devotion
to an ideal, an austere patriot, loving his
country better than his home.

So a few weeks passed by, Cecilia went
about her employments as usual ; no one
guessed what was in her heart, any more
than one imagined, until the other day,
what subterranean fires lay beneath the
homely farms and cottages of rural Essex.
At times, indeed, she looked a little pale
and worn ; but Mr. Tremayne found her

as ever the charming mistress of his
house, who was always ready to talk to him
about books and art, and even a refined
and cultured sort of gossip, when he
wanted to talk  and who kept unbroken
silence when he was reading or writing ;
and, if he ever noticed that she looked sad
and harassed, he remembered that her
thirtieth birthday had just gone by, and,
according to all conventional reckoning,
her bloom ousrht to 0 with it.

He little knew what disturbing elements
had come into Cecilia's life. The threatened
visit to Morwell Lodge had been paid
when fortunately the ex-convict was out
driving with his sister; Mrs. Rivers left
Mr. O'O'Donovan's card at the vicarage, and
there was an end of the matter for the
present.

Cecilia, at her friend's request, spent

part of nearly every clay at Morwell
Lodge.

Often she drove with them miles
into the country. The purple moors,
the lovely wooded valley of the river
Tavy, all took a strange unearthly glow
to her, * as if they were bathed in the
crimson light of sunset. Then, after one
of these days, when Maurice seemed
steadily gaining health in the perfect rest
and pure air of their quiet life at Morwell,
Cecilia would go home to struggle with
what seemed to her to be a deadly enemy.
She would often pass half the night walking
up and down her room, her hands
clenched together in agony.

After a time she became calm again.
She had fought a good fight with this
inward foe who had tried to destroy the
happiness of her life, and peace came to

her at last. Maurice did not love her,
would never love her.

'I am not the sort of woman that men
love,' she thought. ' I know that, as
surely as the sun will rise again tomorrow
morning, so surely shall I never
marry. But so much the better. My love
for Maurice is something to be proud of, to
glow in ; it will never be dragged down
to earth, to die out in the prosaic, and
often sordid details of married life. I am
glad there is this impassable gulf between
us ; Maurice is Irish, a devout Catholic :
I am English and not even an orthodox
Protestant ; nothing can make marriage
between us happy, or even possible. But
so much the more, Maurice, hero, martyr,
I love you with all my soul and strength,
I shall love you for ever and ever.'

And so in time the face of that foe she

bad been fighting changed to her, and she
saw it was the face of an angel, strong,
severe, ennobling, and uplifting. Her love
widened the horizon of her life ; it opened
a book of experience which had hitherto
been sealed to her; it led her in imagination
and in sympathy through a paradise
and a purgatory. She could realise now
the blessedness of married lovers who had
met a twin soul in each other  she
could realise the tortures of those who
had loved unlawfully, and who had fallen
away from honour and duty into the outer
darkness.

CHAPTER II.

MRS. PENROSE.

One afternoon Cecilia had been driving
with Mrs. Rivers through the lanes, still
with their hedge banks luxuriant with
vivid green ferns, past the Tavy murmuring
over its rocky bed, and through the
sombre splendour of the autumnal woods.
By the time they had returned to Morwell
Lodge for afternoon tea, the early dusk
had fallen, and Mrs. Rivers insisted that
her housekeeper should walk back with
Miss Tremayne to the vicarage.

Cecilia noticed that Mrs. Penrose, as
she helped her put on her fur cloak in the
little entrance-hall of Morwell Lodge, was
looking very pale and strange.

I am afraid you are not well,' said
Cecilia, kindly, as they went down the
garden-path. ' I am so sorry you should
have the trouble of walking home with
me

Mrs. Penrose did not answer for a
minute.

1 1 am quite well, thank you, Miss
Tremayne/ she presently replied, in a low
voice. ' I am very glad to be of the
smallest service to you.'

They walked on together for some time
in silence, then Cecilia began to talk to
the housekeeper for courtesy sake.

I think this is the first time you have
been at Morwell, Mrs. Penrose?'

'No, Miss Tremayne, not the first
time,' was the almost inaudible reply.

Cecilia did not pursue the subject ; sbe
had an instinct that Mrs. Penrose bad
some painful association with the place.

I think you are Cornish, like myself,
are you not? Your name is Cornish.'

Yes, I belong to Cornwall.' Then
Mrs. Penrose said in rather an agitated
tone, as if she bad taken a sudden resolution,
and yet trembled at her own daring,
I hope, Miss Tremayne, you enjoy good
health?'

Oh yes, thank you,' answered Cecilia, a
little surprised at the evident anxiety with
which the housekeeper asked the question.

I  I thought you did not look very
strong. Please excuse me, Miss Tree
And do you  do you like living at
the vicarage ?'

Certainly I do,' replied Cecilia, a little
coldly, beginning to think that Mrs. Penrose
was a very inquisitive person, and
that she should be glad when the walk was
over.

No more was said for some minutes.
Suddenly there was a loud clatter of a care
behind them, the horse seemed galloping
at full speed, a man's voice shouted, f Weather
 woa there !' with a storm of curses.
The cart  an empty one  came thundering
on, and before the two women had
time to realise what had happened, and
that the horse  frightened by a gleam
of firelight from an open cottage door 
was running away, it was close upon
them.

Left to herself, Cecilia could easily have
got out of the way, but Mrs. Penrose began
to scream. She threw her arms round

Cecilia, and dragged her to the side of the
road.

Oh my child  my child, you'll be
killed !' she shrieked ; then the cart rattled
past them, and finally stopped a hundred
yards further on.

'Poor woman,' thought Cecilia, 'she
seemed quite beside herself with terror.
No cultivated person would have been such
a coward.'

I beg your pardon, Miss Tremayne,'
gasped the housekeeper, trembling, and
abashed, now the danger was past, ' I was
afraid you would be run over. Thank God
you are safe, and here is the vicarage gate ;
you'll excuse my coming up to the house
with you ?' she asked ; a new anxiety
seemed to possess her, and she looked
ready to flee for her life when the white
gate glimmered in the dusk.

Oh certainly, Mrs. Penrose,' replied
Cecilia, thankful to have no more of the
housekeeper's rather embarrassing companionship.
' Good evening, and thank
you for walking home with me.'

On the following day Mrs. Rivers noticed
that her housekeeper was looking very pale
and depressed.

I am afraid you are not well, Mrs.
Penrose,' said she.

The housekeeper started as though her
nerves were out of order.

4 Thank you, madam, it is nothing. It's
only because I sleep so badly.'

Then she turned away hurriedly,
and began folding up a gown of her
mistress's.

Well, if you do not get better, we
must send you back to London,' said Mrs.
Rivers, kindly.

VOL. II. C

The gown dropped from the housekeeper's
hands on to the bed.

Pray ! pray, don't do that,' she implored.
I can never leave Morwell again ; and then
her voice choked suddenly, and her eyes
fell.

Mrs. Rivers was a little annoyed.

6 How is that? you were averse to leaving
London when I first wished you to come
here. Indeed, I hardly understand you.
And in any case I'll want you to return
with me to town when Mr. Rivers comes
home.'

Mrs. Penrose, with downcast eyes,
finished folding up the gown. Just as
Mrs. Rivers was leaving the room she
said,

I am very sorry, madam, to seem
ungrateful. You have been the kindest
mistress to me, but  but I can't leave this

place any more. Come what will, I must
remain here.'

1 Very well,' replied Mrs. Rivers, trying to
hide that she was hurt. ' I'll understand
that you leave my service this day month.
But have you no reason to give me?'

I have  I have a reason !' she cried,
wildly. ' Oh, Mrs. Rivers, please forgive me,
you don't know what my troubles are, you
never had a child yourself.'

Mrs. Rivers was touched, and startled
by the anguish in the housekeeper's face.

4 Have you a child then ? indeed, I never
knew it.'

Oh ! yes  yes, a dear and lovely child,
I see her nearly every day, and my heart
is almost broken with the love I have to
her, and she'll never know it. I have to
see her smile and be friendly with 3-011,
and everyone but me, and I am nothing

c2

but a stranger and a servant to her.'

Is the woman out of her senses ?'
thought Mrs. Rivers, in amazement.

1 1 don't think I can keep it to myself
much longer. Will you, madam, be kind
and charitable enough to listen to me
and tell me what I'd better do V

Of course I will listen to you and do all
I can to help you,' Mrs. Rivers answered,
gently.

Mrs. Penrose hesitated, as if, now the
moment had come for confessing her secret,
she felt a little frightened. Then she said,
half averting her face,

It is Miss Tremayne, madam. You
would never think it to look at her  but
she is my daughter.'

Kathleen started back  pale, appalled.

Answer me one thing before you say
another word, or else keep silence for ever,'

she cried, vehemently; then, with her eyes
and her voice lowered, she asked,

c Is Miss Tremayne an illegitimate
child?'

No, indeed, madam Mrs. Penrose held
up her head proudly then, ' I have got my
marriage certificate, I can show it you, I
took good care to have that. But I don't
wonder at your asking,' she added, sighing.
1 It may seem so strange to you, but
indeed, Mrs. Rivers, it's not me that has
been to blame  or Miss Tremayne either.
She was stolen from me, Mrs. Rivers, as
much stolen as if I had been one of those
poor slaves that you read about. There
was a book I read over in America,
Uncle Tom's Cabin," almost everybody
has read it, and people have cried many a
time about the poor coloured woman, Eliza
was her name, that ran away with her baby

in her arms across the floating ice, because
the slave-dealers were going to
take away the child. They don't remember
that by the laws of this free country,
as they call it, an English wife and mother
as I was, has no more right to her
baby than that poor slave woman in the
story.'

Come and sit down here by me,' said
Mrs. Rivers, with a grave compassion,
'and tell me your whole story.'

I must go back to the very beginning
if you are so kind as to listen to me,' Mrs.
Penrose's sudden excitement died away,
and very meekly and sadly she took the
chair which her mistress had pointed out
to her.

I was housemaid at Mrs. Remaineth
mother of the parson here, and of my
husband. His name was Gerald, he was

some years younger than bis brother, Mr.
Reginald Tremayne. And he looked upto
him, something as though he was a
father to him. Mr. Gerald had just left
college when I saw him first. Oh, clear,
I thought him the most beautiful creature
in the world, and he took some notice of
me from the first; but he was always as
polite and respectful to me as if I'd been
a lady. And I was not like most of the
servants around, I knew that. My father
was a well-to-do farmer once, and I was
sent to a good school, and was to have
been trained for a schoolmistress, but my
father lost a lot of money with cattle
plague, and bad harvests, and one thing
aud another, so he had to leave his farm,
and I had to go into service. It was a
bitter blow to me, but I was happier than
I expected to be, for Mrs. Tremayne was

a real lady and a kind mistress. She
taught me a lot of useful things, and said
she would make me her own maid as
soon as the one she had then got married.


'But meantime Mr. Gerald came home.
I think he first took notice of me one day
when I was arranging flowers in the .
It all came easy to me, I loved
flowers so much, but he said only an
artist by nature could do as I did. 1 did
not know what he meant, bat he was an
artist himself and used to paint beautifully.
Another day, when I was in his
study dusting his old china and things,
he caught me looking at his paintings.
There were trees and waterfalls and
mountains he had done just like life,
and he came and talked to me so nicely
about them, and the foreign places he had

been to, and seemed so pleased I liked his
pictures, and so sorry for me too in a way,
for there was something I said that seemed
to go to his heart : " It makes me sad
to think of all the beautiful lands that I
shall never see, and I am only a poor
servant that can hardly ever get out for a
country walk on a fine day, but only in the
evenings when it's dark."

c And then it seems he thought I was
pretty, and he used to paint my picture on
the sly, so that his mother and his brother
could not find it out, and we used to meet
out of doors, when I did get out in the
evenings. It went on like this all autumn,
till he said he could never part from me
again. I was very wrong to listen to him,
as no good could ever come of people
marrying out of their own station or of
marrying by stealth as we did; still think

what a temptation it was to me, caring, as
I have always done, for something nicer,
and cleaner, and better mannered than
what I saw in the people of my own class,
and wanting to travel, and see foreign
lands, and beautiful scenery as I always did.
Besides, there was Mr. Gerald himself always
kind, and always making the best of me,
so that I seemed just like a lady to him ; and
think what it was to me  a poor girl, having
a handsome, soft-voiced, nice-mannered
gentleman making love to me, instead of
the rough, masterful sort of man that I
might have expected to marry ! and then
he was* good and honourable, and asked
me to be his wife from the very first.

I gave my kind mistress, old Mrs.
Tremayne, notice, feeling like the most
treacherous, ungrateful wretch that ever
lived, to deceive her so after all her goodness

to me. I went back to my father fora
time, my mother was dead or perhaps
I should have told her all about it ; then,
after a bit, I pretended to have heard of
another situation, and went up to London
to meet Mr. Gerald. We were married
quietly one morning in a church, near
where he was lodging ; then wo went
abroad. Ah, what a lovely time we had !
I thought I was in heaven I But we had
to come back to London, and, when we
were in a dingy street, I did not like it
quite so well. My husband was very kind
to me still, but he had no regular work todo,
and he said he was going to be a lawyer
barrister, I think they call them ; but he
spent most of his time idling with one
thing and another. He did not even paint
as much as he used to do, and in time the
money began to run short. My husband

had a regular allowance from bis mother,
which ought to have been enough for us
both to have lived on, but he was hundreds
in debt before a year was over. He was
never a man to have any low tastes, but
he loved to go to his club, and see his
friends, and to go to the opera, and all the
theatres, picture-galleries, and concerts,
and I think he used to play cards sometimes,
and lose money over that, and then
he used to buy expensive pictures and old
china.

I did not much like the life. No
ladies ever came to the house, and I never
saw a creature but my husband's men-friends,
artists and writers, who smoked a
great deal and dressed oddly, and talked a
queer sort of slang. I kept out of their
way, though they were civil enough tome
; yet I used to fancy some of them

thought I was not properly married to my
husband, aud sometimes I worried myself
nearly ill with the shame of it.

Well, the time went on, and my husband
got more and more out of spirits,
and sometimes he was quite ugly to me  he
that had such a sweet temper, naturally 
for the bills kept coming in, and the
tradesmen wanted their money, and there
was hardly any to pay them with ; so
things went on until my baby Cecilia was
two years old.'

Mrs. Rivers shivered ; she realised at
the mere mention of her friend's name the
dreadful reality of the story she was
hearing.

'My husband was at his wit's eut for
money. He had spent long ago all that
his mother could spare him. The only
thing he could do now, he said, was to

appeal to his brother, the? parson, who was
a rich man and an unmarried one.  11
this time Mr. Reginald Tremayne, living
down here in Devonshire, had no notion
that his brother Gerald had a wife in
London ; when the parson wanted, once a
year, to go up to town, he went to a
hotel and his brother saw him there  he
never went near our house. Sometimes
I had a dreadful saucy he guessed his
brother Gerald did not live alone; but he
would ask no questions, and just kept
away from the house because he was a
parson, and he thought Gerald's companion
was not his wife.

1 So at last, when we were in terrible
straits for money, my husband concluded
to tell his brother everything, and he
spent almost the last pound he had to
come down here to Morwell Vicarage.

He was away nearly a week ; be did not
write to me all the time, so that when he
came back I was almost wild with anxiety
to know whether Mr. Tremayne was
.going to help us. Ah ! he did help us,
but at what a price ! it used to make me
think of the old tales when people sold
themselves to the devil.'

1 Surely Mr. Tremayne is not as bad as
that ?' Mrs. Rivers exclaimed, somewhat
indignantly.

I will tell you everything, madam, and
then you shall judge between us,' Mrs.
Penrose went on, in the same sorrowful,
helpless sort of tone, which never rose to
the excitement that her mistress occasionally
showed as she listened.

When my husband came back to me,
he looked very strange. I thought he was
excited and in high spirits, and yet he

looked half ashamed and guilty, as though
he could hardly look rue straight in the
face.

He had capital news for me, he
said ; his brother had promised to pay all
his debts and give him a fresh start in
life. His mother had a coffee-plantation
out in Ceylon, and he was to go out to
manage it. There would be very little
for him to do, and he should see a new
country and a new kind of life ; he was
sick enough of the old one.

" Did you tell your brother about me
and the child'' said I.

" I did," he answered, " I was obliged
to," and then he coloured up and had that
guilty look I told you of. " Of course he
was annoyed about it, but he said you
would get on very well out there."

'maud when arc we to 20?" T asked.

I was, like my husband, always ready to
move about and see fresh countries, and I
thought any place would be a pleasant
change from London, I was so tired of the
dismal streets, of the noise and the fog,
and above all of my husband's queer kind
of friends.

" We are to be off by the next mail,"
he said, "and my brother will pay for our
passage and our outfits."

I was glad enough to be off. My
father and mother were now both dead,
and I had no relations I cared about. I
loved no one in the world but my husband
and my little girl ; for, though my husband
was an idle, extravagant sort of man, he
had naturally the sweetest of tempers ; and
though he may have neglected me at
times, and though he did the one thing I
am going to tell you about which I never

VOL. II. D

can forgive, yet I believe he loved me
to the last  I really believe he did.

Well, we spent a few days in the greatest
hurry and confusion, getting all the
things we wanted for the voyage, and then
we went down to Southampton, and goton
board the steamer an hour or two before
she was to start. We had two comfortable
cabins, one for my husband and
myself, and one which my little girl and
the nurse were to share with another
nurse and baby belonging to a lady onboard.


1 Oh, 1 shall never forget that evening !
It was lovely weather. I sat on deck and
watched the sunset, as we sailed down
Southampton Water. My husband seemed
very restless, sitting by me for a few
minutes, then jumping up in a great hurry
and walking up and down the deck.

When it got nearly dark, I went downstairs
to see my little girl. I had told
nurse to put her to bed as soon as we
came on board ; I found the nurse unpacking
and arranging the child's things and
her own. I looked into the little cot,
expecting to see the child. It was empty.
I cried out,

" Where is the child?" The nurse
stood staring at me.

'" I thought you had her. Master came
and fetched her two hours ago." '

And then for the first time Mrs. Penrose
seemed overwhelmed by her recollections.


'Poor soul,' murmured Mrs. Rivers,
hardly breathing, with her eagerness to
hear the rest of the story.

I ran upstairs on deck again in one
moment, I hardly know what I did. I rand

2

hither and thither calling my husband's
name, a sailor helped me to look for him.
I found him at last hiding in a dark corner;
he looked like some guilty thief
when he saw me running towards him.

'where's my child?" I screamed,
what have you done with her ?"

He took me by the arm and said,

" She is all right. Come downstairs
into our cabin, I will tell you about
it.

He got me downstairs easily enough,
for I expected to find the child in our own
berth, and he took me into the little room,
shut the door, and-said,

c "It is no use your making a fuss,
Rachel; it is all settled and done with.
The child is not on board at all, but safe
and sound on land."

When I heard that, 1 was just like a

tiger that had lost her cubs. I gave a
great scream, I sprang at the door of the
cabin  but he had firm hold of me, so
that I could not get out. Then I turned
upon him. I think I tried to strangle
him ; I don't know much about what happened.
I recollect I managed to escape
from the cabin at last, and went imploring
the sailors to stop the steamer and let
me go back to England; and then I was
just going to jump overboard, but some of
them caught me.

I was ill and out of my mind for days.
My story seemed to have got about
amongst the passengers, and most of them
the women, at any rate  took my part,
though my husband tried to make out
that I had always agreed to our leaving
the child behind. It was for her good 
she could not stand the climate of Ceylon,

and I was only light-headed from illness
and the grief of parting.'

But what induced your husband to act
in such a cruel manner?'

It was Mr. Reginald Tremayne's doing,
as 1 heard afterwards. He was furiously
angry when my husband told him he had
married his mother's servant.

" I guessed there was a woman in the
case," said he, " but I had never dreamt
that you had disgraced your family by
marrying her."

'For, you see, madam, that, parson ashe
was, he would not have minded half so
much if his brother Gerald had led a poor
girl like me astray; it was the marriage
he thought shocking, because he was so
proud of his old family name  one of the
very oldest in Cornwall, I believe it is.

" However," he said, " you have married

her, and, even if you live apart, the
story will be sure to come out some day.
You may not be always able to keep the
woman quiet, so the best thing you can
do is to take both yourself and her out of
the country.

" But," he went on to say, " I will
give you a fresh start in life, on one
condition. Your child, who bears the
honoured name of Tremayne, shall not be
brought up by a servant. Hand her over
to me, and I will take care she is educated
as a lady. Besides all that, a young
child could not live in the climate of
Ceylon'

1 My husband would not hear of it at
first, but Mr. Tremayne told him he must
give up his child or he would never help
him with another penny as long as he
lived. And, if he ever had a son born to

him, he was to promise to give him up in
]ike manner.'

4 1 could never have believed that Mr.
Reginald Tremayne would have acted in
so cruel a manner,' said Mrs. Rivers,
indignantly.

Ah, madam, the parson is a man without
mercy, when his pride is touched.
When my husband objected that I should
never consent to give up my child, but
that I should insist on remaining behind
in England if she did : "Leave it all to me,"
said his brother, " I will manage so that
your wife shall know nothing about it
till it is too late for her to make any
objection."

1 So this is what these two men plotted,
and old Mrs. Tremayne was made a fool of
by them. I never knew exactly how much
they told her, but it was she who got a nurse,

and sent her down to Southampton the day
we sailed. My husband handed over the
child to the nurse, and got them both out
of the steamer, the last moment before we
started, when I was thinking all the time
my baby was safe downstairs in the cabin
with my own nursemaid.'

Mrs. Penrose paused a moment, and
seemed almost to forget the present in
sorrowful memories of the past.

And what did you do next?' Mrs.
Rivers asked her, gently.

The housekeeper tried to arouse herself
to tell the rest of her story.

1 Well, madam, I said I would go on shore
at the first place where the ship stopped,
and get back to England as soon as possible.
But my husband  in his dreadful fright lest
I should go home again, and spoil all his
brother's schemes, and make him refuse to

give him any more money  my husband
got the captain to side with him, and to say
I was too ill to be allowed to land ; and ill
enough I was, it is true. And then there
was a parson who used to come talking tome,
till I was almost out of my mind, saying
it was my duty to obey my husband,
and that he as head of the household had
the sole right to decide who should bring
up his child, and where she should live,
he knew best what was for the child's welfare.
I told him he was only a man and
knew nothing about a mother's feelings,
and nature was stronger and wiser than
any parson, and all the animal creation
showed that the child belonged to the
mother, and that she had the first right toit,
whatever men's laws might be. So he
called me a wicked, blasphemous woman.
and went away.

'I was very ill nearly all the rest of
the voyage. When we landed, my first
idea was to get back to England to look
for my child, but I was just a prisoner
from want of money to pay my passage
home.

My husband was just ugly with me ; I
think he was ashamed of what he had done ;
but all the more he tried to brazen it
out, and talked about his rights, and that by
the law of England he could take my children
from me as soon as they were born, so
that I should never see them again. I
made up my mind to leave him altogether.
I would go and be a servant again ; there
must be ladies in Ceylon who would engage
me. But before I could hear of a
situation my husband was taken ill of
fever. I could not leave him then, as you
may suppose. I stayed and nursed him

through a few dreadful weeks, and then he
died. Even at the last I could not get
him to do anything to help me get back
my child. He said his brother would
provide for her, and for me too, if he let
him have her, otherwise we should both
be left penniless.

Well, I felt that life was pretty well
over for me. My husband was gone,
whom I had loved very dearly, though I
could never forgive him for robbing me of
my child. And now I was nearly destitute :
I had hardly any money left when I had
buried my husband.

I was mad to think I could not get
back to England, but I found kind friends,
and I got a place as maid to a lady in
Colombo. I stopped with her eight months,
then I got a chance of going back to
England, with a family who paid my passage

money in return for my services to
them on board.

Well, as soon as ever I landed, I took
the cars down to this place to see Mr.
Tremayne the parson. He received me
very coldly, told me I had been the rain
of his brother, and had driven him to his
death. Still, as I was his brother's widow,
he was willing to allow me two hundred a
year, on condition that I went back to my
maiden name, and that I never wrote to
him again. As for the child, I had no
legal right to her at all. He had got my
husband to make a will before he left
England, and to make him, Mr. Reginald
Tremayne, the child's guardian, and I had
no power whatever to interfere.

1 It seemed such an outrageous, barbarous
thing that I could not believe it, and,
as soon as I left the vicarage, I went

straight to see a lawyer at Tavistock, and
he told me that Mr. Tremayne was perfectly
correct in all he said.

1 " A father could take away a child from
its mother, not only when he was living,
but after his death by his will, and that,
whether wife or widow, a mother had no
legal right to her own child." Do you
think, Mrs. Rivers, that one woman in a
hundred knows how the law stands ?'

I think, if all women knew it, members
of Parliament would be allowed
little peace until the law was altered. Inmost
matters women's ignorance is men's
security.'

Well, madam, I went back to the
vicarage. Mr. Tremayne refused to seeme
again, but I was frantic, and I forced
my way into his study. I tried appealing
to his mercy, as he had the law on his

side. I promised that, if be would give me
back my little Cecilia, I would take her
away out of the country, that I would
never ask him for a farthing of money,
and that he should never hear of either of
us again. But he was like a flint.

"'I do not mean," he said, " to allow my
only brother's only child to be brought up
in poverty and degradation by a servant.
My brother's daughter will be treated in
every respect as if she were my own."

4 Then I implored him to let me see her
now and then.

'she is not here," he said, "she is
abroad under my mother's care."

1 1 did not know whether he was speaking
truth or not, but at all events I satisfied
myself that my child was not at Morwell
or ever had been. Then I went down to
Cornwall, to Mrs. Tremayne's old home,

where I lived as servant, but the house
was let to another family, and nobody-could
tell me exactly where Mrs. Tremayne
was, except that she was somewhere on the
Continent. Well, Was hopeless then, and
all but penniless ; for of course, madam, I
scorned to take money from Mr. Reginald
Tremayne. I told him I would sooner
starve than accept a farthing from the
man who had stolen from me my little
Cecilia. There was nothing for me but
to go into service again, which I did, and
I was in one situation for three years. I
could get no tidings of the child. I could
not afford to go abroad, and seek out Mrs.
Tremayne, nor could I employ a detective
to make enquiries for me. You see,
madam, the poor are so helpless.'

'But do you think the child was abroad
all that time ?'

'I had every reason to suppose so.
Twice I came down to this neighbourhood
to find out whether her uncle had got her
with him, but she was not at the vicarage,
and nobody could tell me anything about
her.

1 Well, about three years after my
husband's death, a brother of mine, who
had gone out to America long ago, wrote
and told me his wife was dead, and would
I come out and keep house for him ? I concluded
to go, for I was losing all hope of
ever finding my child again, and my old
love of travelling was as strong as ever. I
spent many peaceful years on my brother's
farm at Westonville, and lived there as his
housekeeper up to the day of his death,
nearly two years ago. People knew I was
a widow, but I called myself by my
mother's maiden name of Penrose. I was

VOL. II. E

determined to have done with the
Tremaynes for good and all. My short
married life seemed to have passed like a
dream, and, though I never forgot my little
Cecilia, I had grown pretty well reconciled
to losing her.

'For after all, I thought, it was perhaps
better for her to be brought up amongst
gentlefolk, as she was one of them by birth.
She would get a good education, and a
hundred other advantages I could not
give her. And I had no fear but what she
would be kindly treated by the Tremaynes.
My old mistress was a kind-hearted
woman, and Mr. Reginald Tremayne was
honourable enough in a sort of way. He
said to me (I think my grief at losing my
child moved even him for one moment), " I
pledge my honour as a gentleman that
Cecilia Tremayne shall be brought up and

treated by me precisely as if she were my
own daughter." And I believe he has kept
his word.'

There was silence for a minute ; then
Mrs. Rivers said,

1 cannot understand how it was that
Mrs. Tremayne, if she was the kind-hearted
woman you describe, could have acted
towards another woman as she did towards
you

I guess she could not help herself,
madam. She was a good deal ruled by
her son  Mr. Reginald Tremayne ; and
was ready to do everything he told her.
He would lead her to think that she was
doing the kindest and wisest thing in the
world for her grandchild by bringing her
up as a lady, instead of leaving her to me.
I don't blame her.'

Mrs. Penrose spoke in the patient,

resigned manner one often observes in
the poorer classes, and which even her
life in America had not wholly effaced.
They have been accustomed to suffer
injustice without redress, to be ridden
rough-shod over by those richer and more
powerful than themselves, and they come
to regard it as all due to the same inevitable
and gloomy fate which sends them
potato blight and cattle plague ; the
scorching sun which smites them deadly
blows in the harvest-field ; the rain and
snow which racks them with coughs and
rheumatism ; and the hated workhouse to
end their days in.

You'll remember the first time you
met me, Mrs. Rivers, in the railroad-cars
going to New York, and I was able to do
3 r ou a trifling service which led to your
talking to me. And so in the end, and

partly through Mr. Rivers knowing something
of my poor brother, you engaged meas
your housekeeper.'

When did you first find out that I
knew Miss Tremayne?'

You gave me one day a letter to post,
madam: "Miss Cecilia Tremayne, Mor-well
Vicarage, near Tavistock," was on
the envelope. I nearly dropped down in
the street when I read that, it brought
everything back so clearly to my mind. I
had concluded she was married years ago
and now to think she was living still
with her uncle, and was a friend of
yours !'

f But why were you so reluctant at first
to come here ?'

I was afraid of seeing her. My
daughter, I felt sure, must be a grand
lady, proud and haughty, like all the

Tremaynes, except, indeed, my poor husband.
She would be in another world to
the, I thought. But when I came at last
and saw her for myself, how gentle and
gracious she was, when I heard how
the village people spoke of her as one
who was not only kind, but as courteous
and considerate to them as if they were
gentlefolk too, when I saw how you
loved her and she loved you, then I began
to feel that I could never go away from
my sweet child again.

She shall never know what I am to
her : don't be afraid of that, please, Mrs.
Rivers. I'll not bring a blush to her dear
face to think her mother is only a servant,
but I'll get a room in the village and get
some needlework to do, just to keep me
employed, so that I should not eat my
heart out. And I'll try to content myself

with just a look at her in church, and in
watching to see her go past my windows
now and then. And I daresay she will
come and see me, and sit and talk with
me sometimes as she does with the other
poor people in the place, and I shall hear
her voice ; I wish no better music'

She was silent, her tale was told ; she sat
with her eyes fixed on the ground, in half
sweet, half sorrowful musing.

Mrs. Rivers rose, and said, a little
tremulously,

I must go now, Mr. O'O'Donovan may
want me ; you will let me talk over the
matter with him, and think what is best to

be done both for you and for ' Mrs.

Rivers hesitated a moment, she could not
bring herself to say 'your daughter'  'for
Cecilia. Meanwhile, I assure you that I
feel very much for you ; you have been 

indeed you are now  placed in the cruellest
position.'

But, ah !' thought Kathleen, as she left
the room, ' though my heart is stirred by
the wrong done to this poor woman, I
cannot help thinking far more of the sword
which her presence in this place keeps
suspended over the head of my dear
Cecilia.'

CHAPTER III.

A MORNING CALL.

Maurice O'O'Donovan and his sister Kathleen
were sitting in the fire-lighted drawing-room
in the dusk of that afternoon. Mrs.
Rivers had been telling him of the strange
revelation which had just been made to
her of Cecilia's birth and parentage. She
was nothing to the young Irishman but
his sister's friend, and a bright and entertaining
companion ; but his sympathetic
nature was aroused to vivid interest as he
listened.

It is such a complicated situation, ' said
Mrs. Rivers. ' I cannot regret that Cecilia
is what she is, and that she has had the
education and surroundings of a lady in
her uncle's home. Yet a wrong has undoubtedly
been done her, by her being
taken away from her mother  a wrong
which perhaps is only now going to be
made manifest. What a revelation it is
of Mr. Reginald Tremayne's character I
The country clergyman with his courtly
ways and gentle voice, his love of flowers
and art, and his deference to women  and
then to think of him as the obdurate man,
hard as a rock when his family pride is
touched ; a man absolutely without pity
for a widowed mother. I really don't
see what is to become of that poor
woman.'

1 What she proposes to do is simply impossible

 to live in this village as a humble
cottager, admiring her lady daughter at a
reverent distance.'

No, the part is too difficult for any
mother to play.'

Perhaps her proposing it shows that
streak of romance in her disposition which
no doubt, when she was young and pretty,
captivated her very Bohemian husband. I
think what you ought to do, Kathleen, is
to put the alternative clearly before her ;
either let her announce herself to her
daughter openly, and take the consequences
whatever they may be  I fear not very
cheerful ones for either of them  or else
let her go back to London at once, and try
to forget her daughter's existence in the
future, as much as she has done in the
past.'

I am afraid that perhaps out of very

consideration for Cecilia we are inclined
to be a little hard upon Mrs. Penrose. If
her story be true, and at present I see no
reason to doubt it  a great wrong has
been done her, a wrong which can never
be set right ; for little happiness could
come now from her daughter being restored
to her, the separation between
them has become so wide.'

'Is any wrong ever set quite right
in this world ?' asked Maurice, smiling
gravely.

Ah, no !' she replied, with a quick
glance at her brother, full of deep meaning.
' If Ireland were free tomorrow,
would that give you back your youth ?'

At least, dear Kathleen, I would feel
young again. But, whatever I have given
up, I have given it voluntarily, seeing my
end from the beginning, whereas this poor

woman was robbed of her child against
her will, and her child can no more return
to her now than as if she were dead.'

Well, I will do my best to get her to
return to London. In this house she certainly
can not remain. I perfectly dread
seeing Cecilia while Mrs. Penrose is here.
To think that we know a secret about
my friend which makes me shrink from
the sight of her ! It shows what a false
position we are placed in.'

After dinner that evening, Mrs. Rivers
summoned her housekeeper to her bedroom.


1 Mrs. Penrose,' she began, c I have been
seriously thinking over all you told me
this morning. I cannot take upon myself
the responsibility of advising you
what to do. Still I cannot help believing
that it would be both for your own happiness

and your daughter's if you could
put away from you all thought of her,
and try to be as content without her in
the future as you have been for the last
twenty years.'

'Oh, madam,' murmured the housekeeper,
* how can I be content, now I
have seen her and know what she is ?'

It is very hard for you, I know. But
I earnestly beg you to consider, before
you take any decided step, whether your
daughter is likely to be more or less
happy than she is now, if she finds out
you are her mother.'

'But indeed, indeed, Mrs. Rivers, I
don't mean to tell her ; I only ask to be
let stay here, where I can see her sometimes,
even though I never speak to
her.'

As long as you remain in this place,

your secret may be found out at any moment,
even against your will. I do not
wish to appear harsh to you  sorely tried
as you have been  but I must tell you
plainly I cannot take the responsibility of
your remaining at Morwell. If you
choose to do so, it must not be in this
house. If you like to return to my house
in London the day after tomorrow, I
will be very pleased to keep you in
my service ; but, if not, we must part at
once.'

Mrs. Penrose began to cry in a forlorn,
helpless sort of way.

You are not a mother, Mrs. Rivers, you
can't feel for me. Oh, dear, dear, how can
I go away and leave her?'

Perhaps Kathleen Rivers felt that she
was a little hardly dealt with in thus having
a momentous secret, affecting her

friend's whole life, thrust upon her now
when she had so many of her brother's
secrets to keep. Her part as regards his
position was quite difficult enough to play
without having to use her skill to ward off:
danger and sorrow from another person.
But how often it happens that, when the
shoulders seem almost crushed by a heavy
burden, some spiteful fate comes by and
heaps on another load !

However, Mrs. Rivers allowed no sign of
her vexation to appear. Very gently, withall
consideration for Mrs. Penrose's feelings,
she yet strove her utmost for Cecilia's
interest, and appealed to the mother's 
affection for her daughter, as a
motive for not disturbing the even current
of her life at Morwell Vicarage. At last
the housekeeper tearfully promised to
return to her place in Mrs. Rivers' house

in London ; and Kathleen, breathing a
little more freely, went to tell her brother
that she trusted the danger to Cecilia's
peace of mind had passed awajr.

It so happened that on that evening the
Rev. Reginald Tremayne and his niece were
dining at a country-house in the neighbourhood.
Cecilia had the good fortune
of being taken in to dinner by a well-known
scientific man, who was ready to talk
on the subjects which interested him, and
who paid her the best compliment which a
man can pay a woman  that of taking it for
granted that she is a reasonable and cultivated
being. Mr. Tremayne fell to the lot
of a professional beauty, in a small way,
who was skilled in an art more pleasing to
some men than that of beauty  namely,
flattery.

The vicar had come home that evening
VOL. II. F

in the best of spirits. He had met a
fascinating woman who had appreciated
him ; he had seen his niece, arrayed in
black velvet, point lace, and his grandmothers
diamonds, looking worthy of his
high-bred race, talking with a man, eminent
in his own line, who evidently admired her
as much as an old married man could be
expected to do. These pleasant recollections
kept Mr. Tremayne in high good
humour throughout the next morning.
After lunch, feeling socially inclined, and
not disposed to settle to the serious task of
reading the Times, or finishing a drawing,
he proposed to his niece that they should
call upon Mrs. Rivers.

Cecilia started, and turned a little pale.
For a time, last evening, she had forgotten
the poignant joys and sorrows of which
that house was to her the centre, in the

calm and bracing air of purely intellectual
pleasure. There is nothing like the study
of nature, whether as artist or as scientist,
to rest a mind, wearied by emotion or by
political strife.

A wild thrill darted through her at the
thought of seeing Maurice again ; they
had not met for three days. Then she
trembled at the idea of the vicar meeting
the released convict. The situation was
full of peril, and she did her utmost in a
cautious way to dissuade her uncle from
the walk to Morwell Lodge.

But Reginald Tremayne was a determined
man, as we have seen.

My dear Cecilia, if Mr. O'O'Donovan is
rather an invalid, as you say, all the more
reason for the vicar of the parish calling
upon him ; and the fact of his being a
Roman Catholic will add a certain 



quincy to our acquaintance. You have
not neglected your friend, Mrs. Rivers,
lately, I think, Cecilia ?' he went on, with
an arch smile which was very dreadful to
his niece. ' Does Mr. O'O'Donovan always
shut himself up in his room at Morwell
Lodge?'

I have seen him occasionally,' answered
Cecilia, trying to speak in a coldly
indifferent tone.

Well, if Mr. O'O'Donovan is half as
interesting as his sister, I shall consider
him worth cultivating.'

Cecilia, effectually silenced, left the room
to put on her hat, and presently she was
walking beside the vicar along the road to
Morwell Lodge.

She felt uneasy and anxious, and guilty
of a sort of treachery. She had done her
best to prevent her uncle  a magistrate,

a beneficed clergyman of the Church of
England  from paying civilities to an
Irish rebel, but without avail. And she
could not keep him from coming into
contact with what he would have looked
upon with as much horror as small-pox,
without falling into a lower depth of
treachery  revealing her friend's secret.

It was one of those brilliant days of
late autumn which are frequent in the
West of England. Against a blue and
cloudless sky the rocky peaks of Dartmoor
rose clear and softly glowing with
undefinable hues of purple, and dull gold
melting into russet, and tender green, on
their broad and heathery slopes. In the
valleys were all the dying splendours of
October. The oak-trees kindled into a
rich, red brown, the withering bracken
flamed brilliant orange, and the bramble-bushes

gleamed like fire. The air was
keen and sweet, with a scent of dewy
grass and heather and fragrant peat-smoke
from village firesides.

The vicar and Miss Tremayne passed
the scattered groups of white-washed
cottages with the peat stacks, and the
great bushes of crimson fuchsia beside the
doors, and they came to the simple grey
house standing in the paddock where the
black-and-white cow was grazing. As
they went up the garden path they saw
Mrs. Rivers standing in the glass porch
which served her as a tiny conservators.
The sun shone on her soft grey curls and
delicate, high-bred face; she made a brilliant
picture as she stood amidst the scarlet
blossoms of her geraniums.

Cecilia noticed that Mrs. Rivers started
as they approached, a look of embarrassment

passed over her face, but it was gone
in an instant as she came forward with
her peculiarly sweet smile to greet her
visitors.

1 My brother is at home,' she said, and
she led the way into the drawing-room,
whereupon Cecilia found an opportunity to
murmur, with a glance at her uncle,

4 He would come, though I did my best
to dissuade him.'

Kathleen answered, still smiling,

Oh, don't mind, my dear ; Maurice has
plenty of tact and can take very good care
of himself.'

The ticket-of-leave-man was not in the
drawing-room, and for a few minutes Mr.
Tremayne enjoyed talking to his hostess,
while Cecilia felt all the misery of being
an unwelcome intruder, for she detected a
look of alarm and uneasiness, which all

Mrs. Rivers' self-possession could attentively
hide, aud Cecilia imagined it was due to
a dread of the meeting between the vicar and
Mr. O'O'Donovan. She little guessed that
Kathleen's terror was connected with herself
and the housekeeper, Mrs. Penrose.

At last Mrs. Rivers could bear her
anxiety no longer, and she made an excuse
to leave the room.

I will call my brother, Mr. Tree
he cannot know that you are here ;'
and with that she went into the diningroom
where Maurice was writing letters,
and with a hurried word of explanation to
her brother she rang the bell for Mrs.
Penrose, and sent her on an errand to a
farm-house in the opposite direction to
Morwell Vicarage. Then, accompanied by
Mr. O'O'Donovan, she returned to the .


Cecilia's heart beat quickly as the ex-convict
was introduced to her uncle, who,
as though he had met a kindred spirit,
beamed at the sight of the distinguished-looking
young man. She was to see
Maurice under a new aspect to-day.
Hitherto grave and rather melancholy,
though always gentle and winning in his
manner, a mirthful and even mischief-loving
element in his Celtic nature rose to
the surface now. It was a delight to meet
a well-bred and cultivated man, a delight of
which he had been long deprived, which in
this case he dared not seek, but which had
been thrust upon him. At the same time
he could not but enjoy the comic part of
the situation, or deny himself the pleasure
of mystifying the English aristocrat, the
county magistrate, who little dreamed that
he was talking to a man who two months

ago was clothed in a convict's uniform and
was breaking stones beside the road.

Mr. Tremayne began by expressing ibis
regret that they had not met before,
trusted he might have the pleasure of
seeing him at the vicarage, hoped he liked
Morwell, and then asked him if this was
his first visit to that part of the country.

We are all of us fond of the moors, but,
perhaps if you have never seen our
neighbourhood before, you will think it a
wild, desolate sort of country.'

I am very well acquainted with Dartmoor,'
replied Mr. O'O'Donovan, gravely,
but with laughter in his bright blue eyes.
In fact, I had for years a sort of official
connection with the West of England  a
small post under government, you know.'

The vicar was dying with curiosity to
know what the post could be, but Mr.

O'O'Donovan immediately began talking of
something else.

And have you been in Ireland lately ?'
asked Mr. Tremayne. i Sad state of things
there, I am afraid

1 Yes, I agree with you, it is a very sad
state of things. But I have not been in
Ireland for the last seven years.'

Ah ! like so many of your countrymen,
you prefer to live in England.'

There was a bright flash in Mr. Donovan's
eyes as he answered,

1 Faith, Mr. Tremayne, your countrymen
take good care that some of us shall live in
England !'

The vicar looked at him a little doubtfully,
but Maurice went on,

From Sir Garnet Wolsey and Lord
Dufferin, at one end of the social scale,
down to a humble individual like myself

at the other, England finds various kinds
of employment for us Irishmen. I'll visit
Ireland again some day, no doubt, but I
quite expect your countrymen will find
some strong inducement for me to return
to England, too strong for me to resist, in
fact.'

1 It is a pleasure in these days to meet a
loyal Irishman like yourself,' replied the
vicar, again beaming at him.

 I wish every Irishman held the
same opinions as myself,' replied Maurice,
fervently.

Then, to the relief of everyone present,
Mr. Tremayne glanced at his niece, and
rose to depart.

C I hope I shall have the pleasure of
seeing you at my house, Mr. O'O'Donovan ?'

A shadow seemed to fall on the Irishman's
face, and the mirthful gleam died

out of his eyes. With a stately gravity
be thanked the vicar, and regretted be
was unable at present to accept hospitality.
He was living in strict retirement, at
Morwell Lodge, having come there on
account of his health, and other reasons.

For the first time in her life, Cecilia
was thankful to turn away from Morwell
Lodge, and her friends were equally thankful
to see her go. She walked, silent and
depressed, beside her uncle, who was in a
very cheerful humour.

'Mr. O'O'Donovan is an agreeable, well-bred
young man ; something rather singular
about him too. Pity ho should be
shutting himself up there like a hermit.
It cannot be altogether his health. I
have a shrewd guess though  I generally
divine people's motives, few things
escape me''

Cecilia felt a thrill of alarm, but she
did not rate her uncle's penetration quite
so highly as he did himself.

Depend upon it, my clear, he is about
to enter a monastery. He gives me the
idea, with all his good breeding, of a man
who has lived apart from the world.
There is something  I hardly know how
to describe it  something lonely and
isolated about him ; I should say, too,
that he had been through a great deal of
suffering. Has Mrs. Rivers told you
much of her brother's past history ?'

Cecilia was becoming thoroughly uncomfortable.
She could have said to her
uncle  as children do in their Q-ame of
1 hide and seek '  ' you burn ;' at all
events, her own cheeks did.

I think Mrs. Rivers has seen very little

of him the last few years,' was all she could
think of as a reply.

The monastic shadow is certainly
creeping over him already ;' and the vicar
smiled archly. ' I noticed that you and
he did not exchange one word of conversation.
Does he never speak to you when
you meet him, my dear?'

He does sometimes answered Cecilia,
feeling that her uncle was getting past
endurance,

In her effort to speak calmly, her tone
sounded almost contemptuous, and Mr.
Tremayne gave a little laugh.

I never before saw a young lady so indifferent
to the society of the opposite sex
as yourself. I am inclined to flatter
myself that I am the only man you care to
talk to.'

1 You are almost the only man I know
worth talking to ;' and Cecilia turned to
him her sweetest smile  a smile of relief
as well as of affection  relief that he was
so far astray, and guessed neither what
Maurice was  nor what he was to her.

'If I return in exact terms that compliment,
you would not accept it as such.
To compliment your sex as a whole is what
you like best, Cecilia.'

To be sure I do. uncle,' she answered.

1 Then you are most unjust to men, my
dear;' whereat they both laughed, and so,
the best of friends, they proceeded homewards,
and no more was said about the
alarming subject of Mr. O'O'Donovan.

CHAPTER IV.

THE SWORD FALLS.

As Mr. Tremayne and his niece entered
the vicarage grounds, Cecilia's tame robin
suddenly dropped from a branch overhead
to her feet, like a brown and golden
autumn leaf. She stopped to talk to him,
and to throw him some of the crumbs of
biscuit which she always kept in her
pocket for his benefit. The vicar sauntered
on ; he turned a corner of his drive, and
then and there he came face to face with
his dead brother's widow.

VOL. II. G

He recognised her in an instant, and be
started back with an awful terror, as if he
had met one risen from the dead. She
looked frightened and confused also, but
more with the embarrassment of a person
caught trespassing. Mrs. Penrose said
something almost inaudible, some sort of
apology, and was about to hurry past
him.

But then Mr. Trema}ne remembered
that Cecilia was following him, and that in
another moment the mother and daughter
would meet. He put out his arm as if to
arrest the housekeeper, and demanded, ina
voice that was hoarse and unlike his
own,

How dare you  what right have you
to come here  what do you mean by
it?'

6 1 am doing no harm, sir. I am going

away for good tomorrow ; I just wanted
one last look of Miss Tremayne's home
The housekeeper stood still in the path, and
trembled.

Then go  go instantly ! No, not that
way, woman P Mr. Tremayne almost
shrieked at her, for now Cecilia was close
at hand. Hardly knowing what he did, in
his terror, he laid his hand on Mrs. Penrose's
shoulder, and gave her a slight
push in the direction of the house, with a
frantic hope that Cecilia might not see
her.

Mrs. Penrose, scared by the vicar's unexpected
roughness, gave a little cry.
She saw her daughter hastening towards
her, and she held out her hands to her as
if for protection.

1 Oh, my dear  my dear !'

'What is the matter  what are you

g2

doing, uncle ?' Cecilia was amazed and indignant
at beholding the courteous vicar
apparently laying violent hands upon a
frightened-looking elderly woman, whom
she recognised as Mrs. Kivers' housekeeper.


Mr. Tremayne released Mrs. Penrose,
with a sort of bitter laugh of disgust and
defeat. He knew it was all over then 
the long concealment of Cecilia's parentage,
the secret which he had kept for more
than a quarter-of-a-century  all was at an
end. In another moment the story would
be told.

His first impulse was to walk on to the
house, and leave the mother and daughter
alone together; he would not witness his
niece's humiliation. But Cecilia's indignant
eyes arrested him. He was not
going to shrink away from her, as if he

were ashamed of himself ; aud the next
moment he had quite recovered his
dignity.

Cecilia, my dear, this person is
annoying and intrusive. You will oblige
me by going indoors and taking no notice
of her. 7

Cecilia was too confounded by her
uncle's conduct to reply to him. Her
attention was absorbed by Mrs. Penrose,
who, trembling and deadly pale, looked
about to faint. She put her arm round
the housekeeper.

Lean on me, Mrs. Penrose, there is a
seat close by, let me help you to it.'

She managed to support the poor woman
for a few steps, until they reached a
rustic garden-seat ; there she assisted her
to rest. Then, turning to Mr. Tremayne,
who was standing still in the path,

regarding her with a helpless look, she
said,

I think, uncle, the best thing you can
do is to go to the house and send one
of the servants here with a glass of
wine. I am afraid Mrs. Penrose will
faint.'

Mr. Tremayne shrugged his shoulders,
and gave an upward glance with his
eyes.

Good heavens ! these women  these
women ! What is to be done ?' and then
he went to the house as he was bid, feeling
that he was being placed in a most
undignified position, forced  at peril of
appearing perfectly brutal in Cecilia's
eyes if he refused  to attend upon his
low-born sister-in-law.

When Mrs. Penrose found herself alone
with her daughter, supported by her

gentle arm, and freed from the alarming
presence of the vicar, she began to
revive.

My dear, my dear,' she murmured,
'you are just lovely to me. I can't go
away and leave you, and never see your
sweet face again ;' and with that she took
Cecilia's hand in her own and began to
kiss it.

Cecilia tried instinctively to draw it
away, she could not help recoiling from
this familiarity on the part of the housekeeper.
She began to feel very uneasy.
There was something strange beneath all
this  the vicar's sudden violence, Mrs.
Penrose's unwelcome demonstrations of
affection. Was the poor woman mad?
With relief she saw her uncle returning
from the house carefully carrying a glass
of sherry in his hand. He looked annoyed,

perturbed, and as if struggling to
keep up his dignity in untoward circumstances.
He bad returned himself with
the wine ; it was not to be thought of that
either of the servants should witness this
painful scene. He had not a doubt that
the secret had been told during: the few
minutes he had left the mother and
daughter together  as he came towards
them he had seen the elder woman fondling
Cecilia's hand, and Cecilia shrinking
away from her with a look of perplexity
and distrust.

Here is the wine,' said Mr. Tremayne,
and now, for heaven's sake, my good
woman, drink it up, and then go back
where you came from  wherever that maybe
 as quickly as possible. You know
very well that neither I nor my niece wish
to have anything more to do with you.

Cecilia, my love, I will protect you from
further annoyance ; now go back to the
house, and leave me to deal with her.'

I am going, sir ;' and the housekeeper
rose feebly, trying to check a sob. ' I
promised Mrs. Rivers I would go back to
London tomorrow.'

'Mrs. Rivers, what does she know
about you?' asked Mr. Tremayne, sharply,
alarmed lest his charming friend at
Morwell Lodge should know anything of:
his family skeleton.

1 Why, uncle, don't you know ? she is Mrs.
Rivers' housekeeper,' said Cecilia, more bewildered
than ever ; the scene was becoming
to her like a puzzling dream.

I promised Mrs. Rivers,' repeated the
housekeeper, ' she knows all about me.'

1 She knows all about you  she knows
all about the disgrace von have brought

upon us !' and Mr. Tremayne gave a sort
of cry of rage. c Cecilia, how will you ever
look your friend in the face again ?'

Disgrace, uncle ! What do you mean ?
I am not disgraced, thank you.'

'Not disgraced, do you say, with that
ivoman for your mother V

There was a moment of awful silence.
Cecilia stood quite still ; she felt stunned
and deafened, as if a cannon had been fired
off close to her ear.

Did you say  ' she asked at last, very
slowly, in a changed and unnaturally quiet
voice  ' did you say that Mrs. Penrose is
my mother?'

The vicar did not answer; he only gazed
at his niece with growing horror aud self-reproach,
as it dawned upon him what it
was that he had done. * Oh, good God !' he
groaned, ' I have told her myself !' To

have kept the secret so long and so successfully,
aucl then  by one of those sudden, unaccountable
blunders into which sometimes
even the cleverest people fall  to have been
betrayed by his own lips !

Mrs. Penrose was timidly plucking at
her daughter's gown.

Don't mind, don't mind, dear Miss Tree
I will go away tomorrow and never
trouble you again.'

Cecilia turned from her ; she was sick
and shuddering with a nameless horror.

'How does she come to be my mother?'
she asked her uncle, in the same strained
and hollow voice.

She was your father's wife  my
brother's wife,' Mr. Tremayne answered,
quickly. All confounded as he was, he
yet divined the possibility of Cecilia's
fears leading her into a dreadful error,

and be was anxious to spare her a
moment more of shame than she was forced
to bear.

Oh, thank God I' With a deep-drawn
sigh, Cecilia dropped into the garden-seat
and hid her face with her hands for a
minute. Then with white and trembling
lips, and a wild and piteous smile, she turned
to Mrs. Penrose and said,

I beg your pardon, if you really are my
mother. I suppose it is all true?' and she
gave her uncle one imploring look, an
appeal for mercy.

He began pacing up and down the drive
as if in utter despair ; then suddenly he
paused and turned fiercely on the housekeeper,
who was gazing at her daughter
with the dumb and wistful loniuQ; of an
affectionate dog.

Now you have done all the harm you

can do, and I shall be obliged by your
leaving this place at once  at once, do you
hear me? If you have the smallest consideration
for Miss Tremayne, you must know
that she can have nothing more to do with
you  you belong altogether to different
classes in society. Now go, my good woman,
go at once

I am going, sir,' she replied, meekly.
'Good-bye, dear Miss Tremayne, it's all for
the best. I know you could never have
cared for me.'

But Cecilia started up.

No, you must not go ; if you really are
my mother, you must not go  Oh, why did
no one tell me before ? why did you keep
me in ignorance if you knew who she was?'
and again she turned passionately upon
her uncle.

Come back with me to the house 7

Cecilia, and I will explain everything, but
let this  this person go home now.' The
vicar tried to soothe his niece, but he felt
almost beside himself.

She must come with us.' Cecilia laid her
hand on her mother's arm, and drew her
gently towards her. ' I cannot let her go
away again, now I know who she is.'

She cannot come with us, Cecilia.' Mr.
Tremayne's irritation got the better of him
then. ' You tell me she is Mrs. Rivers'
housekeeper. You cannot interfere with
another lady's servants.'

Cecilia's eyes fell, the blood rushed back
into her pale cheeks, and Mrs. Penrose said,
hurriedly,

'Yes, indeed, sir, I must go back to
Morwell Lodge, there is Mrs. Rivers'
dinner to see after, and she will be wondering
where I am.'

There, you hear, you hear, Cecilia !'
cried her uncle, with a mingled triumph
and disgust. ' Now will you let her go ?'

Cecilia raised her proud head again, and
looked at her mother very gently.

4 If I let you go now, will you promise
to let me see you tomorrow morning ?
You will not, I beg you, leave Morwell
before I have seen you again ?'

i I won't  indeed, I won't, dear Miss
Tremayne. God bless you for speaking so
kindly to me, my child.' She burst into
tears, and then, with her handkerchief upto
her eyes, she turned away and hurried
down the drive, until she had disappeared
amongst the evergreens.

Now, Cecilia, come home with me.'
The vicar felt himself once more master
of his house and grounds, now that the
spectre of his past life had again vanished

out of sight. He took his niece's arm, as
if she were part of his property, and led
her towards the house, and then into the
drawing-room.

Now, my dear,' he said, carefully closing
the door, and pointing to a sofa, ' try to
recover yourself, and don't let this unfortunate
affair trouble you any further.'

But Cecilia had quite recovered herself
already. It was a calm and thoughtful
face which she lifted to look at the vicar,
as he stood on the hearth rug, facing her,
with his back to the fire, feeling himself a
man again.

1 Tell me, uncle  who was my mother
before she married my father?'

My dear girl, what is the good of
worrying yourself about it ? "Why try to
recall old stories which are much better
forgotten ? Let the matter rest.'

Well,' she replied, in the same quiet,
measured tone, ' I shall ask my mother tomorrow


Mr. Tremayne turned round impatiently
and poked the fire.

1 Perhaps my telling Cecilia now
thought he, i will be the surest means of
preventing her from wishing to see her
mother again. My dear he said, keeping
his face averted from his niece, ' I warn
you against inquiring further; still, if you
will have it, I must tell you that your mother
was then what she is now  a servant.
She was, in fact, my mothers housemaid.'

Cecilia kept silence for several minutes.
Mr. Tremayne, growing very uneasy, looked
round at his niece.

Don't vex yourself about it, my dear,'
he said, tenderly. 'I have known it all
the time, but it has never made any

VOL. II. II

difference to me. Nothing can alter the
fact that you are a Tremayne  my brother
Gerald's child.'

4 But I am my mother's child just as
much.'

Yes  yes, of course ; but the law does
not consider you as such, and society will
not, either.'

And more than all, I am myself.'

Cecilia's thoughts seemed to move
slowly, as though she had been stunned
and the current of life had not yet regained
its usual speed. After another
pause she asked,

What became of my mother when my
father died ?'

The vicar looked down, and pushed the
hearth rug with the point of his boot.

Your father died in Ceylon, as you
know. Your mother came back to England

for a year or two and then, as I
understand, she went to America to live
with a brother of hers. My impression
was that she had been dead for some
considerable time

1 And I  where was I in those early
years ?'

'Your parents, when they went out to
Ceylon, left you in the care of my
mother.'

Then did not my mother return to me
after my fathers death ?'

4 Your mother went to America, as I
have just told you.' Mr. Tremayne felt
both hot and cold, as unconscious Cecilia
thus touched upon the dangerous spots in
his past life. ' You lived with your grandmother
until she died, and then you came
here, my dear, to your own home, to belike
your uncle's own daughter;' and

h2

lie smiled, but Cecilia did not respond.

My mother seems to have forsaken
me,' she said, in a love, pained tone.

'And was it not all for the best, my
dear ?'

I do not know that.'

Mr. Tremayne's face fell, and Cecilia
felt that she was speaking coldly and
ungraciously to her uncle  but  I cannot
help it,' she thought, and she rose and
left the room.

CHAPTER V.

WAR IS DECLARED.

Amidst Cecilia's mingled and confused
emotions, the strongest was a sense of
having been kept in the dark.

1 They all knew it, even Kathleen
Rivers,' she thought, bitterly, ' yet they
did not tell me ; and I have discovered the
truth by the merest accident.'

When she went to her pretty, fire-lighted
bed-room, with the candles in the
tall, brass candlesticks lighted ready for
her use, she  without waiting to take off

her hat and cloak  sat down to her
writing-table, and penned a hasty note to
her friend.

Dear Kathleen,

1 have seen Mrs. Penrose,
and I know everything. It appears
that you found out who she was before I
did. Will you kindly allow me to see herat
your house tomorrow, and appoint
any hour most convenient to yourself.
1 Ever yours,

Cecilia Tremayxk.'

She fancied when the note was written
that there was something stiff and even
ill-humoured about its tone  just as when
she was talking with her uncle in the
drawing-room, she had a dull sense that
something of grace and dignity had gone

from her life. But she could not force
herself to write the note again ; she rang
the bell, and despatched it to Morwell
Lodge, bidding the messenger wait for an
answer.

She was sitting brooding over the fire,
not attempting to dress for dinner, when
Mrs. Rivers' reply was brought to her.
There were signs of haste in the note, the
handwriting was tremulous, and slightly
blotted.

Dearest Cecilia,

If you will come to
Morwell Lodge tomorrow morning at any
hour between eleven and half-past one,
you will be able to see Mrs. Penrose undisturbed.
Maurice and I are going for a
long drive, and I am sending the two servants
to Tavistock shopping. Mrs. Penrose

will no doubt explain to you how it
was that she spoke to me first. You know
I could have no right to tell her history,
until she gave me leave to do so.
Always, dear Cecilia,
Your loving friend,

Kathleen.'

Cecilia smiled sadly over this letter ; her
bruised and ruffled spirit felt the Irishwoman's
delicate tact and sympathy in
every line.

She began hurriedly to change her gown :
some undefined feeling made her choose
one of the plainest in her wardrobe  it was
a black satin which fell round her in
severely simple folds  and round her neck
she placed an old-fashioned kerchief of
India muslin. She did not wear an ornament
or a flower.

I look now more as my mother's
daughter ought to look,' thought she.

Yet when she entered the dining-room,
and took her place at the head of the
table  the vicar, glancing at his niece,
with her pale face and composed and
somewhat haughty manner  thought she
had never looked more thorough-bred.

f Let her mother be whom she may,
she is a true Tremayne,' thought the
vicar.

The uncle and niece kept up a little
trivial and conventional talk during dinner.
But all the time Cecilia was conscious of a
burning sense of humiliation and wrong.
The remembrance would come again and
again  as she noticed in a way she had
never done before, the massive heirloom
plate on the table and on the sideboard,
the antique diamond-cut glass, the costly

wines, the china bowls of hot-house
flowers, all softly lighted by shaded wax-candles
 the remembrance came to her
that she had breathed in luxury and refinement
as her native air, and all the while,
the mother who had borne her was a servant,
a woman of the people. Surely she,
Cecilia, had been an impostor all her
life.

Not another word was said about Mrs.
Penrose that night. The vicar and his
niece spent the evening, as they often did,
in perfect silence, each in an armchair
beside the fire, absorbed  or apparently
so  in a book or a newspaper.

At breakfast next morning Mr. Tree
looked slightly uneasy. He wondered
what Cecilia's next move would be,
yet he shrank with a sort of guilty fear
from asking her.

However, she bad not the slightest wish
to keep him in ignorance. As she rose
from the breakfast-table, she said, very
calmly,

1 1 am now going to see my mother.
Mrs. Rivers has very kindly placed her
house at our disposal this morning. She
and Mr. O'O'Donovan and the servants will
all be out.'

'My dear Cecilia said Mr. Tremayne,
in a much more authoritative tone than
he was in the habit of speaking to his
niece, but his dread of her meeting her
mother again made him feel inclined to
detain Cecilia in the house by force.
You must allow me to say that you are
not acting with your usual good sense in
this matter. You are deliberately placing
yourself in an unpleasant and undignified
position. What good can come of your

seeing this  this person, from whom you
have been separated ever since you were
an infant? In such circumstances the tie
of blood becomes a mere superstition.
Of course you wish for  for Mrs. Penrose's
welfare, so do I, but all these matters
are so much better settled through a
third person  the family lawyer, whom
one naturally takes into confidence indelicate
affairs of this kind.'

 What message could a lawyer take
from me to my mother ?' asked Cecilia,
with a cold smile.

The message would come from me
more properly,' replied the vicar, with a
dignified air. ' I intend to renew my
offer of settling an allowance on my
brother's widow. She refused it before,
but it is my wish that she shall be provided
for respectably, and set above the

degrading need of earning her livelihood.
She must not remain a day longer in Mrs.
Rivers' service. I must go to Tavistock
this morning and see Desborough, and
talk over this unpleasant affair with him ;'
and Mr. Tremayne began to pace up and
down the room, as if to work off a feeling
of annoyance.

Then he paused and said,

I am surprised that you, Cecilia, with
your fastidious self-respect, should think
of going to Morwell Lodge to-day  the
house where your mother is a servant. It
is a sort of letting yourself down which is
very unlike you, my dear.'

I think my self-respect would suffer
more if I refused to go answered Cecilia,
proudly.

'And supposing I forbid you ?'

He turned sharply on his niece,

a sudden fire flashed from bis eyes.

Don't do that, uncle ! Your forbidding
me to see my mother will make no difference
in my actions towards her ; though it
will make a great difference in my feelings
towards you !'

Not another word passed between them.
Mr. Tremayne went on pacing up and
down, and Cecilia left the room. But
each felt that war had been declared, although
actual conflict might not follow
immediately.

Cecilia, in extreme simplicity of attire, a
plain brown ulster and brown felt hat,
hurried along the road, trying by rapid
movement to stifle emotion. She presently
looked up, and saw Morwell Lodge before
her, white and shining in the morning
sun, against the grave purple of the
moors.

A rush of mingled feelings then almost
overwhelmed her. That commonplace
house was destined, in various ways, to
exert a tremendous influence over her
whole life. Never again could she see it,
or even recall it to her memory, without
feeling as though a two-edged sword pierced
her heart. Her mother was forgotten ;
and one wild, unreasoning cry rose to her
lips  'Maurice will never care for me
now T

Mrs. Penrose  or, to give her her due
name and title, Mrs. Gerald Tremayne  a
refined-looking and lady-like figure in her
black silk gown, and silvery grey hair
beneath her white net cap, came to the
door to meet her daughter. Her gentle
face was quivering with a timid uncertainty
as to her reception, and she fixed her soft

brown eyes on Cecilia, with a wistful, clog-like
look of humble love.

Cecilia felt an unexpected glow at her
heart ; and with a tender thrill which
almost surprised herself, she took her
mother's hand in both her own, and kissed
her cheek.

Oh, my dear  my dear, how good you
are to me! It is just lovely of you to
come this morning,' murmured the elder
woman. ' Mrs. Rivers said we might go
into the drawing-room ; we shall have it
all to ourselves, there is nobody around.'

Mrs. Rivers is very kind,' replied
Cecilia, a little absently, as they entered.

The morning sun and the sweet, fresh
air from the moors streamed in through
the open window. A bright fire blazed on
the low hearth, and the blue china bowls
were heaped with bronze and golden

chrysanthemums. But to Cecilia the
pretty room looked forlorn and ghastly in
its unwonted emptiness.

It was a bitter fore-taste of the dark
days to come, when Morwell Lodge would
be once more shut up and tenantless.

'Maurice  Maurice, shall I never see
you again ?'

She listened, with but half her mind at
first, whilst her mother told the history
of her early married life. Cecilia could
think of little but the vivid associations of
the room ; for there was Maurice's armchair,
and the wicker-work rack where
he kept the Freeman Journal of that
week, and there were his very pen and
writing-case. She listened with but half
her mind, until all at once she awoke to
the fact that her mother, in a perfectly
gentle voice, was telling her some-vol.

ir. i

thing that was astounding and horrifying.

1 Do you mean to say that my uncle did
that, and my father allowed it to be done ?'
asked Cecilia, her eyes dilating, her face
growing pale.

Yes, my dear ; they stole you away
from me, they took you from your mother,
just as they steal children in countries
where there are slaves.'

I could never have believed in Uncle
Reginald doing such a barbarous thing !'

f Ask him, my dear ; ask your uncle,
and he will own to it, and be proud of it ;
he did it for your good, he will say, and
you know the law upheld him and your
father in doing it.'

Good heavens f exclaimed Cecilia,
4 what an atrocity ! And I never knew it
until this moment ! Mother,' and she
turned to Mrs. Tremayne, her face glowing

with passion and with pity, ' mother,
what can I do to atone to you for all you
have suffered ?'

1 My child  my child, only love me a
little, and don't despise me  love me a
little, my elegant daughter, that I am so

proud of '

Cecilia threw her arms round her
mother's neck, and laid her head down on
her mother's shoulder. Mrs. Tremayne
shed tears abundantly ; but Cecilia's eyes
were dry and burning, and she felt on fire
with shame and indignation.

This, then, was the story of her early
years. This was the meaning of her
uncle's care of her, a fatherless child !
Tender and generous to her Mr. Tree
had been, no doubt ; but what was
the worth of his tenderness when he had
treated her mother with cruelty and peri

2

fide ? He had brought up Cecilia as his
own daughter  yes, but only to gratify
his family pride, to rescue a Tremayne
from the contamination of a low-born
mother.

And I have loved him like a daughter,
I have lived in ease and luxury ; and
all the while my mother  my wronged
aud betrayed mother  was humbly toiling
as a servant, ignorant if I was even living.'

6 Dear child,' said Mrs. Tremayne, softly
caressing her daughter's hand, ' dear
child, may I call you Cecilia ?'

To be sure you may, mother ;' and the
daughter smiled, in the midst of her
bitter emotions, at her mother's simplicity.
' And now tell me some more
about yourself, and where you have been
living all these years.'

When Mrs. Tremayne's story was finished,
Cecilia sat silently pondering for a few
minutes ; then she said,

Mother, neither I nor anyone else can
ever make up to you for all you suffered
on my account. But what I mean now todo
is to try to make your future life a
little brighter. You must, of course, leave
Mrs. Rivers' house. Tell me where you
would like to live V

Mrs. Tremayne looked a little perplexed.


1 Some place where I can see you sometimes
 that is all I care about.'

And I fancy you would not wish to be
too near my uncle. What do you say to
taking a little house at Tavistock? I
could come and see you very often
Cecilia hesitated a moment : then she

added : ' My uncle tells me be wishes to
make you an allowance.'

A pretty pink flush, a look of gently
offended dignity came into Mrs. Tremayne's
face.

Ob, my dear, I could not take money
from Mr. Reginald Tremayne ; I should
feel as though I had sold my child to hin,
and so I told him years ago. No, indeed,
I would rather go on being m service to
the day of my death. But I have a little
secret to tell you, dear' she paused, then
added her daughter's name with a little
smile of pride  ' dear Cecilia. Well, my
poor brother managed to save a considerable
sum of money, and he left it all tome
; I have between sixteen and seventeen
thousand dollars of his, which I put
into the English funds alone: with a few
savings of my own  that kind gentleman,

Mr. Rivers, managed it all for me. I meant
not to touch any of it, as long as I bad
health and strength to go on working, but
to save it up against my old age. For you
know, my dear, I have been so used to lead
an active life at Westonville (that's where
my brother's farm was) that I should be
quite wisht if I had nothing to do ; so if I
leave service I must try to find some
sort of work, and something that will bring
me in a little money, and now I have
found you, my dear, I want to have something
to leave you when I die  something
to make you quite independent of your
uncle. One never knows, with a man like
him, with his stubborn temper and that
awful pride of his  one never knows what
may happen. Some day he may get mad
with you, and turn you out of his house.'
1 It is not impossible,' replied Cecilia,

calmly. Something in the vicar's face that
morning had already warned her that she
was on the edge of a precipice. ' But,
mother, do not think about me just now.
1 have a little money like yourself. My
grandmother, old Mrs. Tremayne, left mea
hundred and fifty a year. I am more
thankful than I can say, that we are both
provided for, independently of my uncle.
If you can find some way of adding to
your little income, so much the better.
But  ah, dear  here we come to that
eternal puzzle  how is a woman to earn
money?'

Cecilia found to her relief, when she
returned to the vicarage, that Mr. Tree
had gone to Tavistock, leaving a
message for her that he should dine at the
Bedford Hotel, and not return until the
last train. Feeling: stunned and bewildered

by all she bad gone through, she resolved
to pass away the afternoon in gardening,
which was to her a never-failing
solace.

I can defy black care when I have a hoe
or rake in my hand,' she used to say. 'A
blessed stupor conies over my mind whenever
I am digging or pruning or pulling up
weeds.'

She looked very charming in her broad
straw hat, flowered apron, and gauntlet
gloves, as she stood, her face flashed with
fresh air and exercise, tying up a great
sheaf of pink chrysanthemums ; her faithful
robin hopping about her as she worked.
The level sunlight of the October afternoon
glowed on the glossy evergreens, and turned
the leaves of the waning elms and
beeches into gold and flame. Just as the
sun was sinking in a flood of mellow misty

light over the distant Cornish moors,
Cecilia heard footsteps, and, looking up, she
saw Mrs. Rivers.

Cecilia threw down her garden trowel r
and went across the lawn to meet her
friend. Never had she been more glad to
see Kathleen ; hitherto Cecilia had given
her boundless sympathy, now it washer
turn to ask for that priceless gift,
which is like the ' precious oil poured out
which filled the house with fragrance,' and
which is worth much more than mere
money given to the poor.'

Mrs. Rivers held out both hands to
Cecilia, with that Celtic impulsiveness
which sometimes got the better of her
ordinary ' society ' air.

Cecilia, mavourneen, how I have been
thinking of you ! You have gained so
much and lost so much since 1 saw you

last. You have lost your perfect peace
of mind, your perfect content with your
charming home and your charming uncle
is not that so ? And you have gained
the sweetest, gentlest mother  Cecilia, I
have such a respect and affection for her,
I hardly know how to .give her up to
you.'

Cecilia smiled gratefully at her friend,
but said little in reply. Perhaps she felt
inclined to quote one of her mother's little
Americanisms and say to Kathleen, ' You
are just lovely to me.'

She linked her arm in Kathleen's and
walked with her into the house.

You will stay a little while with
me? I was feeling in rather low spirits
this afternoon.'

You ought to be happy, Cecilia. Your
mere existence has given the greatest joy

imaginable to another human being. For
your mother is the happiest woman in the
world, she tells me. She fairly cried with
joy about you when I saw her this afternoon.
I believe she is going to Tavistock
tomorrow to try to find rooms for herself.
That is her present idea, to live in lodgings
in the neighbourhood where you can
come and see her sometimes. All the
same,' Mrs. Rivers added, gravely, ' I
know that your newly-found relationship
will bring you plenty of troubles and
anxieties.'

'Yes,' answered Cecilia, with a sigh, 'it
is delightful no doubt to be loved in that
unreasoning way, which I have done nothing
to deserve, and better still to know
that, as you say, my being in existence
makes some one else happier. But one
must look at it all the way round. There

is an old saying, "Love is enough;" it is
very pretty and poetical, but it is not
practically true. I cannot help seeing the
confusion and complexity which has come
into my life. Out of consideration to my
uncle, if 1 am to go on living at the vicarage,
I must conceal my mother's existence
from the world in general ; and yet there
will be something degrading  at least
something wanting in dignity and openness
 if I have to visit her in secret.
Once my life was simple enough, now it
will be full of petty mysteries and evasions
; and I shall be harassed day by
day by conflicting claims and interests.'

Mr. Tremayne is the great difficulty,
I see that,' said Mrs. Rivers, looking
very anxious.

Such a difficulty that I actually dread
our next meeting, and I am thankful to

have the respite of one day. Perhaps this is
the last peaceful day I shall have  who
knows? Something in my uncle's face
this morning made me feel as if a storm
were in the air.'

4 Come to me tomorrow morning and
tell me all that has happened. Indeed,
w T e must make the most of the short time
we have together. Maurice has made up
his mind to go back to London next week ;
he says he is tired of being idle.'

An iron hand seemed to clutch Cecilia's
heart. She involuntarily put up her hand
to her throat, she could hardly breathe.

'This, then, is the end,' she thought.
Something told me to-day the end was
near.'

'I am grieved to leave you just now,
Cecilia, in all this trouble and anxiety which
has just come upon you  but what can I

do ? My first thought must be Maurice.
I tell my husband that when he comes
home (and by-the-by, he sails tomorrow
from New York) he will find himself a
person of very secondary consideration
with me. When a man has suffered as
Maurice has done, his nearest relations
cannot help feeling that they live only to
serve him.'

Cecilia smiled, with a strange pale look
of enthusiasm and pain. ; Kathleen had no
need to excuse herself to her for any mark
of devotion to her brother.

'You must come and stay with us in
London soon after the New Year,' was Mrs.
Rivers' parting remark. c I fear you may
not see much of Maurice, as he talks of
going to America in the early spring ; still,
you know, if he is away, I shall have much
more time at your disposal.'

And, so well bad Cecilia guarded her
secret, Mrs. Rivers really believed that she
would prefer visiting at her house in town
when Mr. O'O'Donovan was away, because
then Mrs. Rivers would be free to devote
herself to her guest.

CHAPTER VI.

THE VICAR S ULTIMATUM.

It was with nerves braced up to meet a
vague yet real and pressing danger, that
Cecilia met Mr. Tremayne the following
morning. The vicar greeted his niece
with his usual courtesy, but his manner
was grave and cold, as if he wished to impress
her with a sense of his displeasure.
They lingered over breakfast, though they
spoke little to each other, and uttered only
a few commonplace remarks from time to

VOL. II. k

time. Perhaps each dreaded beginning
the serious and momentous discussion
which nevertheless was inevitable  conscious
that their relations to each other
might never be the same afterwards.

At last, the fatal moment could no
longer be delayed. Mr. Treuiayne stood
up pale and stately.

Cecilia, my dear, I have something to
say to you. Let us go into my study ; we
shall be undisturbed there.'

The study, as might be supposed from
the vicar's cultured tastes, was a delightful
room. Its prevailing hues were rich
and dusky ; there were Persian rugs on
the dark polished floor, and Persian jars
and platters of glowing red were its chief
ornaments. There were lounging chairs
of various sorts covered with dull red
morocco, a book-case filled with choice

editions in sumptuous bindings. An easel,
with an exquisite water-colour drawing of
Mr. Tremayne's, stood by the window, and
paints and brushes were ranged neatly on a
carved oak stand close by. The window, as
befitted the room of an artist, looked due
north, and to make up for the sun's absence
a fire blazed on the tiled hearth nearly all
the year round.

The vicar pushed an arm-chair towards
the fire for his niece, and then seated himself
in another.

c Now, Cecilia,' he began, resting his
elbows on the arms of the chair and folding
his white hands together  ' I must tell
you that yesterday I had a long talk
with my lawyer, Mr. Desborough, and I
wrote a letter from his office to your
mother, making her a definite proposition.
Here is a copy of the letter; you

will see from it what are my wishes on the
subject ;' and he took from his pocket-book
a folded sheet of paper, which he handed
to Cecilia.

Mrs. Gerald Tremayne,

1 shall be happy
to settle upon you two hundred pounds
per annum : on consideration that you at
once remove to a distant part of the
country, and that you hold no communication
of any sort with any member of my
family.

'Reginald Remaineth

vicar steadily regarded his niece as
she read this letter. A crimson flush
rose to Cecilia's forehead, but she returned
the paper to Mr. Tremayne without a
word. Perhaps she could not trust herself

to speak at first. She was beginning
to feel that Mrs. Gerald Tremayne was
nearly related to her, and that an insult
to her mother was an insult to herself.


1 Well, Cecilia,' at last said the vicar,
with that hard gaze which was becoming a
downright frown.

I do not think my mother will accept
your terms,' replied Cecilia, in a low but
firm voice, looking straight before her into
the fire.

And what is your reason for thinking
so ?

She told me yesterday that she had
already refused to take money from you,
and that she should do so again. She
refused to sell her child, she said. For I
find, uncle,' and now Cecilia raised her
eyes, and looked at the vicar with a pale,

proud, steadfast face, ' I find that my
mother did not voluntarily give me up, as
I first imagined. 1 find that my father
and you took me away from her without
her knowledge, and against her will. I
find that after my father's death she
begged you to restore me  her only child
to her, a widow  and you refused.
No, I do not think she will take money
from you.'

Mr. Tremayne flinched for just a second,
as Cecilia spoke  but he recovered himself
instantly.

It was iu a superior and slightly sarcastic
tone that he replied,

1 Naturally, my dear, you judge this
matter like a woman  an emotional,
illogical woman. Fortunately for you, I
was able to see a little further into the
future than your poor uneducated mother

a mere creature of impulse and instinct,
as women of that sort always are. I
was able to rescue you from degrading
surroundings ; for, at your father's death,
you would have sunk down to your
mother's level, and have been brought up
amongst the lower classes. You have
been saved from this ; you have been
bred and educated as a gentlewoman, as a
Tremayne  simply because I had the sense
to stand firm, to consider your true welfare,
instead of yielding to your mother's
entreaties.'

Cecilia remained silent, and the vicar
rose, and stood facing her on the hearthrug
with his back to the fire.

You are not quite yourself to-day, my
dear : you seem to me to be rather silly,
and  must I say it ?  a little ungrateful.
However, the world will do me justice. I

have retrieved my unfortunate brother's
error, I have upheld our family name from
being dragged into the mire. That is 
so far. Take care, Cecilia  ' and his
voice took suddenly a tone of stern warning
 'take care that you do not undo my
work ; take care that you do not bring
disgrace upon the name of Tremayne.'

Cecilia rose as he said this, and returned
her uncle's menacing look with a sort of
flame in her eyes. They stood facing each
other in an ominous silence, every moment
the situation was growing more strained,
each carefully weighed looks and words,
conscious that a crisis in their lives was at
hand.

Mr. Tremayne went on,

I wish to tell you that what I and your
father did, the law upheld us in doing.
Your father had a legal right to decide

where, and by whom } r ou should be brought
up ; he had a legal right to take you away
from your mother  either, as he did, in your
infancy, or at any other time during your
minority. And that right did not cease at
his death. By his will, he appointed meas
your guardian, and as your guardian I
succeeded to the right of separating you
from your mother. Probably you are not
aware of this.'

Yes, I' know what the law is, and that
a mother has no more legal right to her
child than a hired nurse has,' answered
Cecilia, in a voice thrilling with passionate
emotion. 'And, when all women know
this, they will demand to have some share
in making the laws which they are forced to
obey.'

Oh, good heavens !' and the vicar
shrugged his shoulders and cast up his

eyes with a look of despair, ' and now she
is beginning to talk about women's rights.
It is the worst taste in the world, for a
lady to express a decided opinion on any
political or legal matter.'

Cecilia was resolved for once to speak
out to her uncle all that was in her mind.

You say that women should be concerned
only with household matters; and yet
you would deny them any power in the
household, any legal right to their
children !'

Yes,' Mr. Tremayne went on, in the
same hopeless tone, ' an hour or so's contact
with that  that person, my unhappy
brother's widow  and you have become
another woman, my poor Cecilia.'

'No, uncle, I am what I always have
been. I know and feel that I am a woman

of the people  just as truly as I ain a
Tremajne/

A flash of rage and even hatred  not
directed at Cecilia, but at a vision of the
hated * lower orders ' which her words
had suggested to him  a flash of hatred
darted out of the vicar's eyes. Then his
face, that refined, artistic face, grew very
cold and hard.

Cecilia's faculties were strung up to
their highest pitch, and a stray thought
crossed her mind  as incongruous thoughts
often do iu moments of intense excitement.
Her uncle was like some of the people of
Southern Europe, 'cultured, fastidious,
sensitive to all beauty iu nature and art,
full of exquisite tastes and sensibilities 
and at the same time, cruel, vindictive,
without mercy or remorse, hard as the

nether millstone. But herein she did him
injustice.

Let us drop this unpleasant and unprofitable
discussion, and come to the
point,' said Mr. Tremayne, recovering his
usual composure. 'You know the proposition
I have made to your mother.
Whether she accepts it or not, you know
what my wishes are. I shall expect you to
carry them out.'

'If my mother agrees to go away and
never see me again, T shall not have a
word to say against it. But if she refuses
to give me up, then I refuse to give her
up.'

Cecilia, as she said this, was white to the
lips ; but she spoke in a calm, clear tone,
and her eyes frankly, fearlessly met her
uncle's. He, looking at her, felt that in
strength of will he had met his match.

There was a minute of dreadful silence,
when neither of the two combatants seemed
to breathe.

Cecilia  ' and all at once Reginald Tree
voice trembled, but it was only
for a moment, and he went on firmly  
Cecilia, I have looked upon you as my
daughter for the last five-and-twenty
years ; now, almost for the first time, I lay
a father's commands upon you. If you
continue to live under my roof, you must
give me your solemn promise that you
will never again see, or speak or write to
the woman who is unhappily, your mother.
Either that promise, or  you leave this
house for ever. This is my ultimatum.
No, do not answer me now. "We may,
both of us, be led on to say things we shall
regret afterwards. I shall not mention the
subject again until tomorrow morning.

Then I shall expect your final decision.'
He turned away, as if to signify that the
interview was ended, and Cecilia, with a
firm and steady step, left the study and
ascended the stairs to her bed-room.

Then her strength seemed suddenly to
give way. She dropped, almost fainting,
into a chair.

I knew it !' she thought wildly. 4 1 saw
from the very beginning how it would be.
This is the end  the end of my life  the
end of everything I care for and hope for.'

CHAPTER VII.

NO ALTERNATIVE.

After the intense excitement Cecilia had
gone through, for an hour or two she remained
in a state of collapse of her nervous
energies. At last a sudden thought
aroused her. She would seek her mother,
she would learn her fate from her mother's
lips. Perhaps after all there was a chance
that she would accept the vicar's terms,
and set her free.

Cecilia had not walked more than a few

yards from the vicarage gate, when she
saw her mother hastening down the road
towards her, and she remembered she had
talked of going to Tavistock this morning.

an n

Mrs. Tremayne had just the absorbed
and hurried air of a person anxious to be in
good time for a train.

When she raised her eyes and saw her
daughter approaching, such a rapture
lighted up her delicate, care-worn face
that Cecilia's heart gave one great throb,
and then sank down like lead.

'My last chance is gone,' she thought, c my
mother will never consent to give me up.'

1 My dear  my dear, and were you
coming to see me ?' so Mrs. Tremayne
panted forth her greeting, overcome with
the joy of this unexpected meeting, yet
harassed by the claims of that exacting
train which she felt sure was not far off,

and had its eye upon her. ' I was going
to take the cars for Tavistock, but it does
not matter.'

You have half-an-hour before the next
train is due. I will walk to St. Stephen's
station with you, mother.'

Proud and joyful, Mrs. Tremayne walked
for the first time by her daughter's
side.

You look just elegant,' she murmured,
presently, with an admiring glance at
Cecilia.

The daughter hardly knew whether or
riot it was an advantage that the mother
talked of the ' depot' and the 'cars,' and
trusted she might get back to Morwell
Lodge before ' sundown.' Perhaps the
further Mrs. Tremayne was removed, by
speech and accent, from the ordinary
middle-class Englishwoman the better.

VOL. II. l

1 1 want to talk to you, mother. Tell
me, first, have you had a letter from my
uncle?'

Mrs. Tremayne coloured a little, and
held up her head with modest dignity.

'Yes, I have; and I have just mailed
my answer to him.'

And what did you say ?' asked Cecilia,
her heart beating quickly.

Why, my clear, what should I say ?
Do you think now I have found you, my
sweet daughter, that I would go away and
never see you any more ? No, not if
he offered me a thousand a year to doit:



Yes, I thought so,' replied Cecilia,
under her breath ; and then she did not
speak for several minutes.

They had reached the little railway-station,
which lay in a deep ravine of the

moorlands. The bracken, all bronze and
golden, and the faded heather, grew down
close to the railway on the one hand, and
on the other were woods of pine-trees,
their rich and solemn verdure mingled
with flaming beeches. There was a seat
of iron-work on the platform beside the
station-master's garden, where still bloomed
stocks, pansies, and geraniums  and
there that calm and mild October day,
with the air scented by mignonette, the
mother and daughter awaited the yet
distant train.

'Mother,'  and Cecilia turned towards
her, trying to smile with lips that quivered
a little  { mother, you must either take me
or leave me. If you will not give me up
entirely, you will have me on your hands
altogether.'

1 Oh, why ? Do tell ' and a 



fused and wondering joy began to dawn
in Mrs. Tremayne's face.

'My uncle has placed before me very
much the same alternative that he has
placed before you. If I am ever to see you
again, I must find a home elsewhere than
at Morwell Vicarage.'

1 But, my clear, I should never think of
coming to your uncle's house to see you.
I would never intrude myself at the
vicarage. All J ask is that you would
come and see me sometimes at Tavi-
stock.'

4 Mother, don't you see?' Cecilia went
on, very gently ; she could hardly bring
herself to tell Mrs. Tremayne the vicar's
alternative  it seemed too harsh ; yet all
the while Cecilia had a hope, unconfessed
even to herself, that when Mrs. Tremayne
knew the whole truth she would refuse to

come between her daughter and the man
who had been like a father to her, even
though he had wrongfully usurped that
place. ' Mother, don't you see ? We
cannot meet at all, if I am still to live
with my uncle. Tell me, would you not
soon forget me, and be perfectly happy,
if you were to go away to another part of
the country and never see me again ?'

Cecilia paused for her mother's answer
in a tumult of conflicting feelings. She
knew that if her mother consented to give
her up, if she now lost this unexpected,
unsought-for affection which had come
into her life, there would be a blank, a
sense of loss, which would make the world
never quite the same to her as before.
How haunted she would be by this gentle
placid old face, with the soft grey hair ;
how the soft brown, dog-like eyes would

ever seem gazing at her with a wistful unsatisfied
yearning !

Cecilia, my child,' came the mother's
answer, in a tender agitated tone ; i how
could I be happy without you, now I know
you, what you are?'

1 Well, then,' Cecilia's face had grown
very pale, but she still tried to smile and
speak playfully, ' what do you think of our
living together in a little house somewhere ?
We shall be very poor, we must live very
humbly, perhaps we may be able to earn
a little money by hard work of some
sort.'

I think it w T ould be just heaven !' Mrs.
Tremayne looked up, her face beamed, and
she clasped her hands together with a little
sigh of joy.

There was a long silence after that.
Cecilia felt that there was nothing more to

be said. Her question was answered.
The faint rumble of the expected train
was heard from afar, a few passengers, the
station-master and a porter or two, were
moving about the platform ; then Cecilia
rose, and said in a somewhat strained
voice, as if she were holding herself under
a strong control,

Come, my dear mother, it is useless for
you to go to Tavistock now. You and I
must look much further away for our
home, and we will go together. Come
back with me to Morwell Lodge. I must
see Mrs. Rivers.'

Mrs. Tremayne obeyed her daughter
without a word. Cecilia gave her her arm
as they ascended the hilly road from the
station ; but hardly another word was
spoken on the way to Morwell Lodge.
Mrs. Tremayne was trembling with joy at

the prospect of a borne with her daughter,
as if she had seen a beautiful vision ; still
there was something just then about
Cecilia which awed her mother into
silence.

She was a little afraid of this tall, fair,
stately young gentlewoman, who, by some
strange freak of nature, was the housekeeper's
daughter.

To think I should have lost my child
all these years  to find her again like
this ! But ah  after all, I would rather
have had again the baby they stole from
me,' thought Mrs. Tremayne, perplexed b} r
feeling that her daughter was her own and
yet not her own ; her very flesh and blood,
and yet as remote from her own ways and
thoughts as if she were alien in blood and
race.

It seemed like a dream to the housekeeper

that she had ever called Cecilia
daughter  when she saw Mrs. Rivers
come forth to greet her friend. Mrs. Tree
had just then a most potent influence
over her child's destiny, and yet
she humbly retreated, her very existence
forgotten for the moment, into the inferior
regions of Morwell Lodge.

Mrs. Rivers drew Cecilia upstairs to ber
bed-room, and they sat down by the fireside,
Kathleen holding her friend's hand,
and looking with tender anxiety into her
face.

Cecilia began, very calmly,

'You were right, Kathleen, you clearly
foresaw the danger ahead. I think I
vaguely guessed it from the beginning.
My uncle, who took me away from my
mother when I was a baby, is not the man
to undo his work after all these years. He

is what he was nearly thirty years ago, when
he refused to give me back to her.'

But, Cecilia, he cannot now interfere
with your personal freedom.'

No, certainly he cannot. He leaves me
free to choose one of two alternatives.
Either I give him my solemn promise never
again to see, or to hold any communication
with my mother, or I leave his house forever.


Ob, my dear Cecilia !' cried Kathleen, in
anguish, 'this is far worse than I feared !'

Is it really ? Do you not think we had
every reason to expect that my uncle would
make what he would call a firm stand for
the honour and credit of his family ? It
is rather painful to him, no doubt ; but
noblesse oblige" you know.'

And what will you do ?'

1 Ah  I have to say " noblesse oblige" too.

iu my own way. My mother has just
declined my uncle's offer of an allowance
of two hundred a year, because it was
coupled with the condition that she and I
should never meet again. Can I do less
than she has clone T

Then is there no hope, no escape in any
other way for you ?'

'None. I said that I was free to choose,
but the fact is, I am not. Nobody is really
free. There are some things morally
impossible. I cannot accept my uncle's
condition, when my mother will not.'

You see how it is, Kathleen Cecilia
went on, after a few minutes' silence, ' if I
give up my mother now, I endorse, I agree
to, my uncle's act, when he took me away
from her in my childhood. More than
that, I bring upon her a fresh loss, a fresh
robbery of her daughter. She has seen

me again, she has built new hopes upon
me, she tells me she loves me. And all
the while  ' here a cry of passionate revolt
seemed to break through Cecilia's calm
tones  ' all the while, it is my uncle I love,
and not my mother ! How can I love her,
when I never knew her until the other day,
when we have spent all our lives apart, and
have not a thought, not an idea in common ?
Whilst my uncle  you know how happy
we have been together in our everyday
lives, with all our tastes and habits in
sympathy, though we may be widely
different in our opinions. It is my uncle,
and my home, and everything I care for 
friends and society and refinement and art
and travelling  I must give up, to live a
narrow, sordid, poverty-stricken life !'

Cecilia ceased abruptly ; she had to put
a strong restraint upon herself, or she

would have burst into tears. Kathleen
was weeping silently, and the two women
sat by the fire for a time, without saying
another word.

Then Cecilia went on, very quietly,
1 After all, my caring for my uncle so
much more than I do for my mother, proves
only what an injury has been done her.
If I had never been taken away from her,
I might have been contented with her now,
contented with her life and her surroundings.
When a wrong has been done, somebody
has always to pay the penalty of it ;
and it often happens that it is somebody
like myself, who was in no ways responsible
for the original wrong.'

Mrs. Rivers thought bitterly,
'I wish I had died before I had brought
Mrs. Penrose back from America ! It
seems to me that it is / who am some-low

responsible for Cecilia's sufferings !'

She said presently, in a half-stifled
voice,

Cecilia, you must come and stay with
me. Your uncle will relent in time.'

'No, he will never relent; he is ready
not only to sacrifice me, but himself also,
to his family pride. Thank you, dear
Kathleen, for all your goodness to me, but
it is better that I should face my new life
at once. I must settle my mother comfortably
in a little house somewhere. She
would have been contented enough if I
had come to see her now and then, she
would never have Oue to the vicarage.
But this would not have contented my
uncle, you see.'

And it all seems such a useless sacrifice
! Who will be the better for it ?'

1 Kathleen,' answered Cecilia, in a low

and earnest voice, not looking at her
friend as she spoke, ' your brother Maurice
had once a harder choice to make than
mine. It might have seemed kinder to
his friends, and a truer service to his
country, if he had fled to America when
he was free to do so. It might have been
wise and sensible to save himself; but he
felt it was simply  impossible. My prison
awaits me, Kathleen. I hope I shall go toit
as bravely as he did.'

The Irishwoman was silenced, and soon
afterwards the two friends parted, with
one mute and passionate embrace.

You will come again before we part ?'
asked Kathleen ; and Cecilia replied,

1 1 will come tomorrow. Then everything
will be at an end between my uncle
and myself.'

She went towards home, feeling as

though every step of the road, with its
myriad associations, gave her agony. It
was the bitterness of death to look, almost
for the last time, at Morwell Lodge,
where she had passed hours of keen and
vivid emotion. All her ambitions were
over, all her hopes that the day might
come when she too might work and suffer
for the national cause so near her heart 
that long dreamt-of, long planned-for visit
to Ireland would probably never happen
now. And her love of a far later date,
that passion for Maurice O'O'Donovan,
which had come as a crown to her love
for his countryseat would soon be a
dream of the night  visionary, hopeless,
mournful.

But not only these loftier memories ;
the homely recollections of the lonely
cottages she passed on her road, combined

to make her way that day through a very
valley of the shadow of death. Beneath
those humble roofs Cecilia, with her courtesy,
her sympathy, had ever met a hearty
welcome. All her life she had spent
amongst them, she had tried to serve them,
and now they must do as they could without
her.

I know now,' and a sudden thought
made her eyes kindle with a proud triumph
amidst her pain, ' I know now why
it was always so easy for me to make
friends with these poor struggling, toiling
folk. In my veins flows the blood of
these people who have to bear up the
world and its burdens on their shoulders.
All that 1 am suffering now comes from
my kinship to them, and because I am
trying to be true to that kinship. I used
to pride myself on being a democrat, the

VOL. II. M

time is come for me to put my professions
into practice.'

She walked on, suffering acutely, but
holding up her head with a calm and unshaken
courage ; until she came to the
white gate of the vicarage grounds. Her
tame robin, espying her from afar, came
flying through the trees, and perched on
the gate-post as she entered, his breast
like a little coal of fire, his bright black
eyes regarding her intently. Then
Cecilia gave a sob.

I must leave you too, my Robin !' and
her tears fell fast, as she scattered crumbs
for the bird.

Mr. Tremayne was in excellent spirits
when be met his niece at dinner that evening.
He felt that he had acted with the
soundest judgment in clearly placing
before her that no compromise with the

accursed thing  low birth and breeding 
was possible for her.

1 Now she finds that I am determined to
allow no sentimental, and more or less
secret association with that miserable
woman, my unfortunate brother's widow,
Cecilia will at once gracefully give way,
and will feel grateful to me for putting an
end, without loss of time, to an intolerable
and degrading situation. But, even if
that were not so, the mere statement of
what would follow her disobedience to my
will, would be enough to ensure her compliance.
To lose her income, all but a
paltry hundred and fifty pounds a year, to
lose her home, her position in society, the
mere thought of it is enough ! There is
nothing like putting a thing plainly sometimes,
aud Cecilia has plenty of commonsense.'



M 2

He glanced across the table at his niece
with a proud and pious sense of being a
sort of Providence to her.

What I have saved my dear girl from !
and twice in her life too !'

Cecilia was determined that that evening,
perhaps the last that she should ever
spend with her ancle, should be as pleasant
to him as possible. She wore a gown which
he had always admired, a rich silk, in
colour like the dark sea-blue that one sees
in old Venetian glass, and round her
shapely throat were rows upon rows of
large honey-yellow amber beads.

The dinner exactly suited the vicar's
fastidious taste ; choice fish and game and
entrees, nothing heavy and commonplace
in the way of joints and puddings. And
Cecilia had filled afresh the old china
bowls with roses, which gave the table a

dainty air, and refined the prosaic business
of eating.

Cecilia looked at her uncle, and thought
with a sigh, that she should never see again
such a dignified and beautiful picture
as he made that evening. The soft light
fell on his silver hair, and the green
velvet of the window curtains made a dark
background for his refined and high-bred
features, which looked more than ever
like an ivory carving. His black coat
and white tie were a sort of compromise
between evening dress, and the clerical
uniform which he disliked. There was
something about him of the country squire
of ancient pedigree, and also of the courtly
man-of-the-world Monseigneur ol the
Roman Catholic church.

After dinner, while Mr. Tremayne was
sitting over his wine, which consisted of one

glass of old and costly Madeira  and Cecilia
was alone in the drawing-room, brooding
over her profound melancholy thoughts 
the door-bell rang, and presently Cliveaud
Lina Marsden entered.

Their arrival made Cecilia start with
pleasure, which presently gave place to an
acute pang, as she remembered that from
these friends as well as from her uncle
and her home  she was about to part.
She had almost forgotten the existence
of the Marsdens in the rush and hurry of
events during the last few days, but usually
not a week passed without Clive and Lina,
or one of them, spending an evening with
Cecilia.

It was her ambition to make Morwell
Vicarage a desired haven to these young
people, where they might find peace when
they were much harassed at home, and

where they might find also a certain
amount of quiet amusement. Cecilia took
care that there was always a plentiful
store of tempting magazines and papers
about the vicarage ; there might be seen
the Graphic and the Portfolio, Harper's
and Scribe's magazines, Caldecott's and
Kate Greenway's picture-books, and choice
prints and etchings in profusion. And
in return, the boy and girl brought a
breath of freshness into the somewhat
grave and monotonous quietude of the
vicarage.

Clive and Lina thought this evening
one of the most delightful they had ever
spent. Cecilia had never looked more
handsome, or talked more brilliantly ; they
did not know it was a fever of mental
excitement which gave the brightness and
bloom to her face, and made wit and merriment

flash from her lips. After tea, she
appealed to Mr. Tremayne.

Uncle, let us go into your study and
look through your drawings once more.'

The vicar, with a benevolent and beaming
face, led the way into his sanctum, turned
up the lamp which was burning dimly
on the table, lighted candles on the mantelpiece,
arranged chairs before the easel so
that the two ladies might see the drawings
to advantage, and allowed Clive to ransack
his portfolios and unearth old and almost
forgotten treasures.

Mr. Tremayne had not only exquisite
taste, but  for an amateur  a considerable
amount of technical skill. He was touched
by Olive's enthusiasm, which was that
of a boy whose passion for art was seldom
gratified, and who, if he lacked the culture
which comes from study of the masters,

bad not by it been made fastidious.

'Really,' thought Mr. Tremayne, as
Clive went into raptures over one of the
vicar's most successful landscapes  a level
yellow gleam of stormy sunset over a
long sweep of purple moorland, with a few
grey boulders of granite and a shallow
pool reflecting the sky  ' Really, I think
even I had hardly appreciated this boy
as he deserves. I should like to see more
of him. What a tall fellow you are growing,'
he said aloud. ' I suppose you will be
going out into the world soon. Are you
thinking of making art your profession ?'

Olive's face clouded over, and his eyes fell.

'I only wish I could. It is the only
thing I care for. But my father will not
hear of it.'

Oh, that is a pity.' Mr. Tremayne
thought to himself, with all an old bachelor's

scorn for the blunders of parents.
What a fool Marsden is  be has no
notion how to bring up his children. His
eldest daughter has disgraced herself, and
now he is thwarting his only son in his
decided vocation in life. Well, Olive,' he
said, ' come and look over my drawings
whenever you like, and if there is anything
I can teach you in the way of art I shall
be very glad to do it.'

Clive's face brightened again with a
sudden joy and gratitude, w T which made Mr.
Tremayne resolve inwardly :

1 will do what I can for this boy, and
if he should turn out to be a genius it
would do credit to my discrimination,' was
the thought which passed half unconsciously
through the vicar's mind.

When the young Marsdens went away,
saving they had had an ' awfully jolly

evening, Cecilia threw a little, white,
fluffy shawl over her head, and walked
with them down the long drive to the
gateway of the vicarage. A full moon,
high in the sky, shed a flood of silver
lustre through, the waniuo- foliage, white
like snow, and shadows like delicate lacework
lay across the path.

Cecilia was anxious to know, before she
bid her friends good-night, all that they
could tell her of their future hopes and
prospects. Perhaps she should never see
again this boy and girl, who had made
much of the happiness of her past life.
4 Have you decided anything yet, Lina?'
1 Yes, so far as I can. I shall be one-and-twenty
next May, you know, and I
shall take a situation in a girls' High
School as soon afterwards as I can get

it;

1 You will have an awful row at home to
go through first, Lina,' said Clive, with a
shrug of his shoulders.

I know that she answered, tranquilly.
'I am afraid I shall be considered as mucha
disgrace to my family as poor Harriet
is. But it can't be helped. After all,
our lives belong to ourselves, and to no
one else, and we must do the best we can
with them. The barbarous days are over
when the lives of all members of the
family were at the mercy of the head of
it. But the idea seems still to survive.'

Have you seen your sister since her
marriage ?' Cecilia ventured to ask.

'Well, such strict paternal injunctions
have been issued, that I have not ventured
to call upon her yet. I have been hoping
to meet her accidentally in the village,
but I have only seen her once or twice,

driving with her husband, and she just
nodded to me and that was all. I did
not think she looked very happy, poor
girl.'

Don't let us talk about it,' said Clive,
who had by no means become reconciled
to the thought of his brother-in-law.

Aud you, Clive, have you any plans
for the future ?' and Cecilia laid her hand
on the bov's thin arm.

Well, considering that I have no
strength, no brains, and no money  I
think the situation I am best fitted for is a
grave in St. Stephen's churchyard,' he
replied, with a bitter laugh.

Cecilia did not answer with an arch tenderness,
as she would have done a week
ago, ' How we should all miss you if you
were there !' for such words from her now
would be only a mockery ; she herself

would soon be dead and buried to all her
friends at Morwell and St. Stephen's.
She only leant a little more heavily on
Olive's arm and said, in a low voice,

L I have something to tell you both. I
am going away very soon for a long time ;
perhaps for ever.'

Clive stood still with an inarticulate
cry of dismay, but Cecilia added,

1 You have never heard me speak of my
mother, I think. Some time ago she came
back from America, where she has been
living for several years. I am going to
live with her for the future.'

Ob, Cecilia, Cecilia, what shall we do
without you ? There will be nothing to
live for when you are gone !' were the
words uttered despairingly by the brother
and sister.

Don't say anything more  don't make

it harder for me than it is!' so she prayed
them, trembling a little.

Then you don't wish to go ?' replied
Clive, defiantly ; and he would have poured
forth a torrent of inquiries and expostulations,
but she stopped him with hand outstretched
appealingly.

1 Wish to go ? God knows I do not !
There, there, good-bye  come and see my
uncle when I have gone  I think he will
be a little lonely,'  her voice broke, she
tore herself away and went back to the
house, leaving Clive and Lina standing in
the road, speechless with grief and
amazement.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE LAST APPEAL.

The morning came, which to Cecilia, after
a sleepless night, dawned grey and chill
and awful, as though it were the morning
of the day on which she was doomed
to die.

But just as no condemned criminal ever
loses, until his latest breath, the dim hope
that a reprieve may yet reach him, so
Cecilia was conscious of a vague, unreasoning
belief that her uncle would relent
at the last moment. "With what a bright

smile he had spoken to her last evening ;
how tenderly he had wished her goodnight
! "Was it possible that the man,
who only a few hours ago had looked at
her with a father's love and pride in his
eyes, would that morning thrust her out
of his house ?

Mr. Tremayne greeted her as kindly as
ever. He seemed in excellent spirits, yet
Cecilia, knowing him as she did, could
once or twice detect a tremor in his voice
as he talked, and  with an unheard-of
clumsiness for the vicar  he dropped his
spoon as he was handing her his cup for
some more coffee.

Then suddenly when breakfast was over
he rose and walked to the fireplace.

1 Cecilia, my dear, I am going to Exeter
this morning. Before I go I must just
say one word to you. I dislike extremely

VOL. II. N

alluding again to this unpleasant subject,
still I trust it is for the last time, and that
henceforth it may be entirely buried and
forgotten. Cecilia,' and then he drew
himself up a little, and his tone became
hard and cold, ' I must ask you to give
me that promise I spoke of yesterday.'

Cecilia had also risen from the table ; she
now stood confronting Mr. Tremayne, her
face was very pale, her hands were tightly
clasped in each other.

Uncle,' she replied, in a low, but clear
and resolute tone, ' my mother and I are
ready to do what we can to please you.
She will undertake never to come to
Morwell again, never to intrude upon you
in any way. She will be contented if I
visit her and write to her occasionally.
But that is the very least I can do. I



must refuse to give that promise you ask
of me.'

There was an awful silence. The vicar
stood, his eyes fixed upon Cecilia, his face
growing grey and hard as a stone.

1 You prefer that woman to me, do
you?' he said at last; and the words
seemed forced through his clenched teeth.

No, I do not !' Cecilia's answer was
like a cry of anguish. ' But  she is my
mother.'

Then he abruptly turned his back on his
niece, rested his arm on the mantelpiece,
and stood looking down into the fire.

Reginald Tremayne was nearly threescore
and ten, but the glowing Celtic blood
often retains much of the passion and the
freshness of youth right on to old age.
Had he not been emphatically a gentle



man, with all the habits and traditions
which are second nature, he might have
turned on his adopted daughter and struck
her to the ground, in return for the deadly
blow which she seemed to have aimed at
his heart. For a few minutes he was
almost beside himself with rage, with
disappointment, with wounded pride and
affection ; but no word, no sound escaped
him. The haughty vicar, the county
dignitary, the representative of an ancient
family had been defeated, humiliated, but
he bore it in silence  the only possible way,
he thought, when it was a wornan who had
done it.

Cecilia came a few steps towards him,
trembling violently, holding out her
bands.

4 Oh, uncle, speak to me !' she cried, in a
faint voice, making her last appeal, but he

took no notice of her. For one moment
her will, her whole soul were yielded up to
him ; yet the strength of the resolution
she had made, not to give up her mother,
was not expended ; it still held her, as with
a force outside herself.

At last he turned, and confronted her
again. He looked like an old man in
reality now, his face seemed to have grown
white and haggard and shrunken in those
few minutes. He spoke as if he were a
little out of breath, otherwise his voice was
as firm as ever.

There is nothing more to be said. We
will have no mockery of leave-taking. I
am going to Exeter by the next train, I
shall not return until tomorrow evening.
"When I return, I shall expect  ' then for
one instant his voice faltered, but he went
on resolutely  ' I shall expect to find you

gone. I have nothing more to say.' And
he walked steadily across the room without
looking at her again.

Cecilia stood without moving or speaking.
It was like a dreadful dream ; she
saw all she cared for most in life vanishing
from her, and yet she was powerless to
prevent it.

At the door the vicar suddenly paused,
and then some of his pent-up passion
burst forth.

Cecilia, my child for more than twenty
years, I ask only that you will obey me as
your father, and you will not ! But whenever
you change your mind  whenever
you are ready to give me that promise,
come back to me ; my home will be always
open to you '

Then, abruptly, as if he dared not trust
himself longer in her presence or he might

have broken down utterly in some wild
outburst of wrath and tenderness, he went
out and shut the door.

The day passed on. Cecilia was numbed
and stupefied by all she had gone through;
she scarcely suffered at all as she made
all the needful arrangements for her
departure on the following morning.

She had to collect her various belongings
throughout the house. Her uncle's
various gifts to her from time to time
she knew he would wish her to carry
away with her  all but the family
treasures which had belonged to his
mother and grandmother ; these certainly
must not be degraded by belonging auy
more to one who had deliberately descended
from the station of the Tree
to cast in her lot with the people.
Cecilia made a package of the diamonds,

some other antique jewellery, and some
miniatures and point lace ; she sealed it
carefully and placed it on Mr. Tremayne's
dressing-table.

And now she must go for the last time
to Morwell Lodge to make the final
arrangements with her mother, to bid
farewell to Kathleen Rivers and  to
Maurice O'O'Donovan.

Mrs. Rivers, Cecilia, and Mrs. T rein
ay ne had together a very calm and
business-like talk. Cecilia was almost
indifferent whither she went on the
morrow, but it was settled at last that
she and her mother should spend the
coming winter in lodgings at Penzance.
It was Airs. Tremayne's native place, and
she timidly expressed a longing to see it
again.

But I have not a relation left in the

world, so you need not fear meeting
anyone wboin } T ou would rather not
know, my dear,' she said to her daughter.

The presence of her mother seemed to
give Cecilia strength to go through the
parting with her friend. It was impossible
to allow any token of her grief to
become visible when Mrs. Tremayne's
face was radiant with joy at the thought
of spending the whole winter with her
daughter.

Mrs. Rivers, indeed, felt very bitter
against her late housekeeper. The latter
could not, or would not, realise the sacrifice
which Cecilia was making for her sake.

6 I don't mean to take her away for
long, indeed, Mrs. Rivers. It is just a
visit she is going to pay me; if she will
only stop with me a month or so, indeed
I will try to be satisfied. I shall make

her as comfortable and happy as ever I
can, and she shall have a real good time
at Penzance all winter. Certainly, it is
only natural she should like to be with
her mother ; who could love her as I do ?'
and she looked adoring at Cecilia, who
sat with her eyes cast down and her pale
lips compressed.

Mrs. Rivers thought that the old Baying
which Cecilia had quoted the other
days, ' Love is enough,' might be made to
cover plenty of that soft selfishness which
is often a component part of parental
affection. The daughter might sacrifice
everything, the mother would not know
that she had made auy sacrifice at all, for
Love is enough,' and she loved Cecilia
with all her heart. Still Mrs. Tremayue
had the grace to add,

Of course, Mrs. Rivers, I know the

difference between Cecilia and me. She is
a real lady, and I am only a working woman,
and I don't wish to take her away
from all her friends here, and her uncle,
if she wants to go back to him, though I
guess she won't, now she knows how
cruelly he has behaved.'

1 It seems such a terrible waste thought
Mrs. Rivers afterwards. ' Cecilia is throwing
away her life just as Maurice did.
Yet could I wish either of them to have
acted otherwise ? They would have been
less than themselves if they had. They
have followed not duty merely, but something
loftier, less definable, but not less
precious. Duty is like the solid rock
beneath our feet, but honour  which calls
Cecilia, which once called Maurice  is more
like the life-giving air we breathe. If it
were not for those whom the world calls

Utopians, sentimentalists, fanatics, the
moral atmosphere would lose its oxygen,
and the human race would die stifled.'

And now the two faithful friends clasped
hands for the final parting.

4 Maurice is out,' said Mrs. Rivers, in a
low and troubled tone. ' He did not
know you were coming, but he will be
home very soon. Cannot you stay a little
longer ?'

No, I must go. It is better as it is,'
replied Cecilia, in a choking voice ; then,
with one convulsive pressure of Kathleen's
hand, she hurried out of the house and
down the garden-path, and so out into the
road, without daring to look back.

Then she stood still and put up both
hands to her forehead. Her brain seemed
turning.

'J think I am going mad,' she said, aloud.

An instinct of self-preservation led her
to turn away from the vicarage, to seek in
physical exertion some relief from her
acute metal tension. She walked in desperate
haste some miles along the moorland
road. The pure air blew softly on
her fevered forehead. The wild and
desolate scene around her, the boundless
expanse of dun and purple hills, the rugged
granite tors lifting themselves to the
low grey clouds, the subdued light of the
autumn afternoon, the very loneliness of
the place, in time brought calmness to
her.

Nature, silent, free, untamed by the hand
of man as she is in these Dartmoor solitudes,
seemed to speak peace to the soul
which loved her so passionately

Cecilia walked on fqr miles, and intime
she found herself descending a steep

and stony lane which led down to the
river Tavy.

There was a little wooden bridge on
which she stood for a few minutes, looking
on the scene, well-known, long-beloved,
which she should see no more. On either
side rose lofty hills, the more distant a
grave purple, whilst near at hand the dying
bracken, the fading beech-trees flamed
gold and crimson, even the rushes wore a
brilliant hue in their autumnal decay.
The river rushed swiftly past, with a
murmuring rippling sound ; clear coffee-brown
over its gleaming, pebbly bed,
flashing into light where it broke against
the smooth grey boulders. The shores of
the stream were fringed w r with sad-coloured
alders and willows ; but on one mountain
ash there glowed clusters of berries like
sparks of fire, its branches drooped low

into the water, and the current gently
swayed them to and fro as it swept
onward.

Cecilia stood on the bridge for some
little time. The silent, lonely melancholy
of the place seemed to pass into her fevered
blood, and to still her wildly throbbing
heart.

'The everlasting hills will stand, the
river will go flowing on, when I am dead
and forgotten  ' that old thought, so common
to the human race, floated through
her mind. ' Why do we toil and trouble
ourselves? we are only the straws and the
faded leaves drifted downwards by the
current to the sea. "The wind passeth over
them, and they are gone, and the place
thereof knoweth them no more." '

Footsteps near her made her look round.
As she did so, her heart gave ooe wild

bound  then the calm of emotion at its
highest pitch came over her, and nerved
her for what she felt would be one of the
supreme moments of her life.

She saw Maurice O'Donovau coming
towards her down the rugged lane  she
saw his tall figure, his pale, eager, sensitive
face. He was to her a hero and martyr,
the man who had suffered hardships and
indignities such as she could scarcely even
imagine, whom she loved with all the
passion of a pure and ardent nature
which had never loved before. What
were her sorrows to his ? he who had
passed seven years of his youth in penal
servitude.

For one moment she looked at him  the
man she should never see again  with her
whole soul in her eyes. Then pride, and
the inevitable soreness which comes from

unreciprocated love, made her imagine that
he had sought to avoid her that day, and
she was about to pass him with a silent
bow.

But he, with a rush of gladness in his
face at the unexpected meeting, held out
his hand to her.

c Miss Tremayne,' he said, in a tone of
deep emotion, * is it true that you are
going to leave Morwell ?' and he retained
her hand in his as he spoke.

'Quite true,' she answered, in a low
voice, her eyes falling before his intense
gaze.

They were both silent for a moment, he
let her hand fall gently, and Cecilia turned
away a little, and stood, tightly clasping
her finders round the hand-rail of the
bridge, her eyes fixed on the darkly flowing
water beneath.

VOL. II. o

Maurice knew by instinct, what ibis
sister had never discovered with all her
keen wits. He knew that Cecilia loved
him ; and he knew also that she saw, as
clearly as he did, that the gulf between
them was impassable. But he could at
least give her affection, reverence, sympathy,
in exchange for her passionate
devotion.

In a voice low, thrilling, strangely sweet
to Cecilia's ear, he said,

May a man like myself, who has none
of the ordinary hopes and ambitions of
other men, and who looks for little in the
future, but to end his life as he began it 
in prison  may I speak to you frankly ?'

Cecilia bowed her head, and he went
on.

'You have given my sister and myself
the truest, warmest sympathy. If kind

and noble feelings, if earnest wishes could
free a country, Ireland would have been
freed long ago, and freed by you. But
that is not your destiny in life ; you, an
Englishwoman, are called to other work
than ours. You are with us, Miss
Tremayne, but you are not of us, and you
never can be.'

She shivered a little as he spoke ; there
was to her something in his words severe
and awful as Fate, tenderly and reverently
as they were spoken.

4 But do not think, I beg you, that what
you are called upon to do is a less high
and noble work than ours. Your lot is a
very hard one, and a very glorious one.
It seems to me that you have to bear the
widely different burdens of both the two
great classes to which you belong. You,
as a descendant of an aristocratic and



ancient family, feel that a finer sense of
honour, a loftier devotion to duty, is
demanded of yon, than of those less
privileged  whilst your relationship to the
people, with whose sorrows and struggles
you have always sympathized, forces you
rather than be untrue to them  to give
up all the ease and comfort and outward
beauty of your life. You, too, are
serving your country, Miss Tremayne !
you are one of those who make the world
sweeter and purer for all who come after
you.'

Maurice was speaking to Cecilia now ashe
had never done before. He who had
received her ardent sympathy with his
patriotism a little chillingly; who had cared
not greatly to talk of Ireland's wrongs
and Ireland's hopes to her, an Englishwoman
 now opened his whole heart to her

with a passionate fellow-feeling, when
Cecilia's own private and domestic sorrows
were in question. He had partaken of her
sympathy but sparingly; but he held out
sympathy to her with lavish hands.

Cecilia said, in a very low tone,

I wanted to tell you that the thought
of you, what you have had to do, has
helped me during the last few clays more
than anything else. But what are my
sufferings compared with yours ?'

She felt, rather than saw, the radiance
which beamed from Maurice's face, as she
said this.

It is at least some compensation for
those sufferings, if they have enabled me
to be of any service to you. I can truly
say this  that I have felt much of
what you are feeling now. You are
giving up not only all that is pleasant and

easy and delightful in your life, but everything
that is prudent for you to do. You
are sacrificing yourself for a mere sentiment,
an ideal, so you will be told ; but
just so one dies for a symbol like a flag  ora
vision of the future, like a free and
united Ireland. You know,' and his voice
sank a little, ' you know there was a time
when I could easily have escaped to
America ; but I think I felt then, just
what you are feeling now  " There is only
one road open to me, and I must follow it
wheresoever it leads me." '

1 Wheresoever it leads me,' repeated
Cecilia ; and then she raised her head,
and looked Maurice steadily in the face.
Their eyes met, full of lofty and self-forgetful
enthusiasm  and they looked at
each other, as two martyrs might have
looked just before the death-agony.

Yes, wheresoever that road leads me,
I will go,' she said, ' and you have helped
and strengthened me on my way

There was one moment's perfect silence.
Then Cecilia held out her hand. She
could bear no more. Maurice clasped it in
both his own.

1 Our Blessed Mother of Sorrows comfort
you !' he whispered, fervently ; then
with one more look  the last  they turned
away, and all was over.

CHAPTER IX.

AIR, TREMAYNE COMES HOME.

By the time the Reverend Reginald Tree
returned from bis visit to Exeter,
he had quite made up his mind that he
should find his niece still at the vicarage.

A woman of her good sense, her knowledge
of the world, it is inconceivable that
she should deliberately sacrifice her home,
her position in society  I say nothing of
myself  to a sentimental fancy about a
low-bred woman, of whose very existence
she was ignorant until a few days ago !

Cecilia lias disappointed me a little, I confess
; she has shown a want of her usual
judgment and temper about this wretched
affair; however, I know I have done the
wisest thing possible by leaving her alone
for a couple of days to recover herself.
By this time she has recognised that by
my firmness I have saved her from being
placed in a most humiliating position, as
regards her unhappy mother  that, in fact,
I have taken all responsibility of her decision
upon myself.'

The vicar was too proud to inquire after
Miss Tremayne from his man, who met
him with his brougham at St. Stephen's
railway-station. Perhaps also some secret
dread kept him from mentioning her
name.

It was dark when he alighted at Mor-well
Vicarage. He walked straight into

the drawing-room. The room was empty,
unlighted, no fire burned in the grate, and
a sensation of deadly chill made him shiver.
Then he turned hastily, and glanced into
the dining-room.

Of course she would not be here,' he
muttered to himself. ' Probably she is in
her bed-room, or she may be spending the
afternoon with Mrs. Rivers.'

Then Mr. Tremayne's face darkened.

1 Has Mrs. Rivers got rid of her housekeeper,
I wonder? Our charming Irish
friend has caused  quite unwittingly, I
admit the most serious disagreement I
have ever had with Cecilia.'

The vicar ascended the stairs ; he hesitated
a moment, then with a sudden impulse
he walked down the corridor to
Cecilia's room. The door was wide open,

all was dark within. Mr. Tremayne stood
on the threshold, holding his antique
silver candlestick high above his head, so
as to throw the light round the room. It
looked bare and uninhabited. He gave
another little shiver.

She has certainly gone to Morwell
Lodge,' thought he, as he went back to his
own cheerful, fire-lighted bed-room to dress
for dinner.

As he set down the candlestick on his
dressing-table, he saw lying there a packet
covered with white paper, carefully sealed,
and addressed to himself in Cecilia's own
handwriting. He tore it open, his heart
sinking with a dark misgiving. There he
found the morocco case which contained
his grandmother's diamonds, some other
family treasures, and this brief note :

Mr dear Uncle,

1 1 cannot leave you in ignorance
of my address, as perhaps the time
may come when you may need some service
which I can render you. My mother
and I have taken lodgings at 25, Marine
Terrace, Penzance ; and we shall probably
remain there the whole winter. I return
you your grand mothers jewels ; I feel that
I have no longer any right to the family
heirlooms, but T still venture to call
myself, your affectionate niece,

1 Cecilia Trehayne.'

The letter fell from the vicar's hand.
He stood speechless, motionless, staring
straight before him, but seeing nothing.
These words seemed sounding in his ears,

Behold your house is left unto you
desolate.'

When, an hour afterwards, Reginald
Tremayne went downstairs again, be held
his head very erect, his face was very
pale, his lips were set in one determined
line. He would try to forget that Cecilia
had ever been born. It was not only that
she had treated him, the man who had
been to her as a father, with disrespect
and disobedience  his pride tried to ignore
the wound to his affections  but she had
deliberately disgraced the name of Tree
and had cast in her lot with her
low-born mother. That was the uu pardonable
sin ; and Cecilia's very remembrance
should be blotted out.

Through the dark days of that winter,
the vicar confronted, with an inscrutable
and haughty face, the wonder and curiosity
of friends and neighbours.

1 My niece was very well when I last

heard from her,' was bis invariable reply
to polite inquiries after Miss Tremayne.

What a long visit she is making,' Mrs.
Marsden remarked, with a certain spitefulness.


Yes, she is thinking of spending the
whole winter at Penzance,' Mr. Tremayne
answered, cheerfully.

Nobody knew the secret anguish which
sometimes consumed that proud and unbending
man in the long winter evenings,
when he sat alone in his study. He never
entered the drawing-room now ; he could
not bear the sight of Cecilia's work-stand,
and the unused piano, and the empty china
jars which once she had kept filled with
flowers.

His appetite began to fail him when he
was at home, for he hated having his meals
alone. His face grew wan and deeply

lined ; people began to say that the Vicar
of Morwell was beginning to be an old
man at last. He was now constantly
brooding over the past, his memory went
back to the time, more than twenty years
ago, when Cecilia, a quiet, graceful, little
girl had come to live at the vicarage. He
remembered Cecilia first becoming the
mistress of his household, and what a
smooth and prosperous regime hers had
always been. He remembered their many
visits to London together, their yearly
journeys on the Continent. All his memories
of Cecilia were pleasant ones ; she
had never worried him with complaints
of the servants, or the butcher and baker,
or with any other sordid trouble ; she never
exceeded her allowance, and presented him
with unpaid milliners' bills ; she had never
had a lover.

Often, as be came home from bis solitary
ride or drive, the fancy possessed him that
be should find Cecilia coming to greet him
at the door ; often as he sat by his lonely
fireside, he thought he heard her light
footstep on the stairs. Once, he started
from a brief and troubled sleep by the
dying fire in his study, believing that he
heard Cecilia's voice.

Dear uncle, I have come back to you !'

When he found it was only a dream,
tears, almost for the first time in his life,
forced themselves beneath his haughty
eyelids.

For why should it not have been
Cecilia?

1 Any moment she may repent and return
to me. For T told her I would take her
back to my home and my heart, if only she
would give up that woman who has come

between us. I would take her back without
one word of reproach. Oh, Cecilia, my
child, come back to me ! I never really
meant you to go away !'

But the clays went on, and Cecilia did
not come back.

One afternoon Mr. Tremayne was riding
homewards, feeling  as he neared the
vicarage  that the solitude and illness
of his life at Morwell was growing more
than he could bear. He came upon Clive
Marsden, plodding wearily along. Mr. Tree
face brightened, the boy brought
to him such a vivid remembrance of
Cecilia.

Why, Clive, I have not seen you for a
long time. What have you been doing
lately? drawing, eh? Come and dine with
me at seven o'clock this evening, and bring
your drawings.'

vol. II. r

Olive's face flushed with pleasure, and a
little embarrassment.

Thanks, Mr. Tremayne, I shall be delighted
to come; but as for my drawings 
you must please remember I don't go in for
high art, they are mostly decorative things,
not worth showing you.'

'Never mind what they are, I flatter myself
I know a little about most kinds of
artistic work.'

Clive Marsden thought that Mr. Tree
had never been so pleasant as on
this evening. In former days the vicar
had had always a few kind words to say to
him ; still Clive was chiefly a friend of
Cecilia's, and as such demanded no
particular attention from Mr. Tremayne.
But this very fact now gave Clive a new
importance in the eyes of Cecilia's uncle,

and he talked to him as genially as if he
were his equal in age and standing.

And Clive, who, as he left home that
evening, had said to his sister Lina, ' It
won't be a bit the same at Morwell
Vicarage now Cecilia is away.'  Clive had
almost forgotten Cecilia's absence by the
time dinner was half over, in enjoyment of
the sympathy between himself and Mr.
Tremayne in their love of art. For to
anyone like Clive, who has a distinct
vocation, that vocation must be more permanently
interesting than any individual
human being.

By-and-by they adjourned to the study,
and, at Mr. Tremayne's request, Clive
produced a portfolio which contained a
perfect medley of drawings. Some were
most careful studies of flowers, ferns, and

p 2

grasses, full of life and freshness, drawn
and coloured with a bold and skilful handsome
were of the same natural objects,
conventionally treated, yet with all their
strongest characteristics preserved, so as
to form original designs for curtains,
screens, and other household objects.

'My father says these are all women's
work,' said Clive, half apologetically.
'But I don't see why a man should not
care to have beautiful things about him in
his house as much as a woman. My ambition
would be to have all common household
things as lovely in form and decoration as
they can be made.'

'And all cultured people would feel as
you do,' replied the vicar, with inward
scorn for his brother parson's Philistinism.

Mr. Tremayne admired Olive's drawings
all the more because they were of a style

so different from his own that they could
not possibly come into competition with
them. He was amazed at their excellence.
I never knew before we had such a genius
amongst us,' he murmured to himself.

And what are you going to do with all
your work ?'

Nothing,' Clive answered sadly, his face,
which had beamed at Mr. Tremayne's
praise, clouding over again. ' Nothing 
what can I do ?'

Such power was not given you for
nothing. It strikes me there may be a
fortune contained in that brain of yours,'
said the vicar, kindly.

I am afraid not, Mr. Tremayne, nothing
but folly and vanity, as my father says ;'
and Clive smiled rather bitterly.

Nevertheless, your peculiar talent is
one which has a distinct money value, if

you will allow me to look at it in so prosaic
a light. If you were a mere landscape-painter
like myself, you might run a greater
risk of starving. I think I may possibly be
able to help you the next time I go to
London.'

Clive flushed with sudden hope, but Mr.
Tremayne interrupted his thanks  he was
too cautious to reveal the purpose in his
mind, lest some future day he might have
to confess that his influence had failed.

1 No, wait  wait until I see what can be
done. Perhaps nothing may come of it.'

Clive was about to close his portfolio,
when Mr. Tremayne caught sight of some
water-colour sketches of heads.

4 Why, after all, you have tried your
hand at different work. Let me see
these !'

'They are studies from life, rather indifferent

likenesses, but they are mostly
intended to be used in decorative work.'

'Ah !' The vicar gave a little start. He
was holding in his hand a portrait of
Cecilia, sketched in water-colours. The
graceful head, with its wavy brown hair,
the sweet, serious eyes of clearest grey,
the straight, fine nose, the small and
delicate mouth with its touch of haughtiness
 in colouring and expression, the
drawing was life-like.

I did not know that was in the portfolio.'
Clive coloured, with quite an undefinable
feeling. ' I think that is by far
the best likeness I have done.'

Mr. Tremayne looked at the portrait with
an intent, but quite inscrutable gaze. Then
without a word he put the drawing back
into the portfolio, and walked away. Fora
minute he stood on the hearth rug, looking

down into the fire; then, without turning
round, he said, abruptly,

w Do you ever hear from Cecilia?'

'No, I wish I did. I don't even know
her address.'

1 can give you that, if you would like to
write to her. 25, Marine Terrace, Penzance
can you remember that? And, if you
write, you might mention, if you liked, that
you had dined with me this evening, and

that I ' There was a moment's pause,

as though there was something in the
vicar's throat; then he added, in rather a
cold, constrained voice, 'You can tell her
that I am very well.'

I will tell her so, certainly,' replied
Clive; but he added to himself, 'I don't
believe you are very well, all the same.
Something has certainly gone wrong, aud
I cannot help thinking that unexpected

and ghostly mother of Cecilia's has had todo
with it.'

'We will have tea now.'

Mr. Tremayne turned round from the
fireplace as he spoke. He had quite
recovered his ordinary tone and manner,
and not another word was said about
Cecilia.

CHAPTER X.

TWO SPARROWS

When Clive Marsden returned home that
evening, feeling really stronger in mind
and body, for the sympathy and encouragement
he had received at Morwell Vicarage,
the first person he encountered was his
father.

Where have you been this evening ?' the
latter demanded, austerely.

I have been dining with Mr. Tree


Mr. Marsden gave a short laugh.

The vicar of Morwell has singular taste
in his choice of guests.'

Clive divested himself of his hat and
great-coat without a word of reply. But
he said to himself, quite coolly and
deliberately,

There is only one man in the world
I hate, and that is my father. And,
judging from appearances, he equally hates
me.'

There is a vast deal of hypocrisy about
family affection current in the world. To
be of the same blood, may as naturally
cause hatred as love. In fact, no other
antipathy can be as intense as that which,
in many cases, exists between two members
of the same family ; and it is generally
strongest between two of the same sex 
between fathers and sons, mothers and
daughters, because these more commonly,

in daily life, come into collision. Such a
dislike is as much a part of nature as
breathing, and it will extend, between the
two uncongenial persons, to the very tone
of the voice, or to the manner of walking ;
whilst every thought, every habit, every
opinion is antagonistic. To fight against
this antipathy is to fight against nature,
and the only cure for it is death, or lifelong
separation.

Clive went into the drawing-room, where
he found his mother looking flushed and
annoyed ; apparently giving a lecture to
Lina, who sat by the fire, an open book on
her lap, a Japanese screen in her hand,
with w r which she was playing ; whilst her
face wore its frequent expression of slightly
amused and scornful indifference.

4 Well, Liua, ; Mrs. Marsden was saying,
1 you will never have such a chance again.

I can't think what more you can want ; his
father has one of the best practices in the
county, and there is some property on the
mother's side, I know  he will come into
everything by-and-by  and he is quite a
gentleman, good-looking, not in the least
like an ordinary country lawyer. What
more can you want ?'

I want this, mother,' answered Lina, a
little sternly, 'that a man's intentions shall
not be discussed before he has declared
them. And secondly,' she added, as she
saw Clive come into the room, 'that I
should not be discussed before my
brother, as if I was merchandise you had
to sell.'

Here Clive bolted out of the room again
in a great hurry.

Nonsense !' cried Mrs. Marsden.
'Don't be so absurdly missis and prudish.

You know as well as I do that Mr. Ridgeway
only wants an opportunity to declare
himself.'

And that opportunity he shall never
have, if I can help it.'

Why not ?' asked Mrs. Marsden, iu
exasperation.

1 Because I don't mean to accept him.'

'Why not?' almost shrieked Mrs.
Marsden.

Because I am not in love with him.'

6 And what does it matter whether you
are in love with, him or not ? Such nonsense
! I have no patience with girls talking
about falling iu love. It is downright
improper.'

'Not half so improper as marrying a
man without being in love with him, I
should say, mother.'

Do you wish to bo an old maid then ?'
demanded Mrs. Marsden, after a pause.

I have not the slightest objection.'

Good Heavens ! I wish we lived iu
France, and then you would be made to
marry a man in every way suitable, like
Mr. Highway.'

I don't think you would make me
marry him, even if we did live in France,
mother. One can always say, u I will not,"
at the altar rails, and you would hardly
find parson or priest who would go on with
the service after that. Now, good-night,
mother, I think we have discussed this
hateful subject enough.'

Mrs. Marsden actually cried with vexation
when she was alone. Was ever
mother so tried as she was? Harriet, her
eldest born, had made a low marriage of

the most shocking kind. Janet, who was
created to be a clergyman's wife, had been
neglected by all the curates of the
neighbourhood, and was fast becoming an
old maid. And now Lina, the flower of
her flock, absolutely refused even to look
at a most eligible young man, who was
paying her unmistakeable attentions, and
announced her determination of becoming
a mistress in a High school. Was it not
enough to wring a mother's heart ?

Liua was not quite blameless in the
matter of Mr. Ridgeway. She had met
the handsome young lawyer at several
parties that winter, she had danced with
him, had sat on staircases with him, had
half sympathized with, half scoffed at, his
laments that he could not go to the bar,
but must put up with the solid loaves and
fishes of a partnership in his father's

practice as a country solicitor. And, not
being naturally incapable of flirtation like
her friend, Cecilia Tremayne, Lina bad
amused herself generally with Mr. Ridgeway,
until she began to find out that 
unlike herself  he was in earnest. Then
she quietly, but firmly drew back. But it
was too late.

Too late for Lina to escape incessant
lectures, warnings, admonitions from her
mother, who, poor woman, had been plotting,
planning, watching her prey with
breathless interest. And then, when she
had triumphed in his being fairly ensnared,
to have all her hopes clashed to the ground
by Lina's own obstinacy ! Still Mrs.
Marsden did not despair; Mr. Ridgeway
had not ' spoken ' yet. She would contrive
several opportunities for him ; and then,
when at last he had declared himself, she

vol. ir. Q

trusted that Lina would be forced to accept
him.

At first the fortunes of war appeared to
favour Mrs. Marsden. She executed the
bold strategic movement of inviting Mr.
Ridgeway to spend a couple of days at St.
Stephen's Vicarage  her opportunity being
the giving of an evening-party and carpet
dance, one of the few entertainments the
Marsdens were able to afford,

Philip will grumble dreadfully when
the bills come in sighed Mrs. Marsden to
herself, 'but we must do something for
the girls. And, if it only leads to Liua's
being settled in life, we ought not to grudge
the expense.'

The invitation was complacently accepted
by Mr. Eidgeway. Mrs. Marsden was triumphant,
and Lina felt the situation was
becoming dangerous enough for her to

need an ally. Janet, of course, could not.
be depended upon ; she agreed with her
mother that any woman must be mad who
refused any man who was well connected,
well-conducted, and well-to-do. So Lina
was forced to take into her confidence a
member of the sex with which she was just
then at war.

Clive,' she addressed her brother with
a sort of tragic-comic solemnity  ' if you
desert me at this crisis I shall look upon
you as a traitor. You must stick to me
like a burr, and never let that man be alone
with me one single instant.'

All right ; I'll help you keep him at
arm's length. He is an awful puppy, and
I hate the very sight of him,' Clive answered,
vindictively ; for, as often happens
to the younger brothers of pretty girls,
the sister's lover found him in the way and

Q2

treated him as if he were a schoolboy.
Still don't you think, Liua, it would bethe
wisest plan to let matters come to a
point, and so get rid of the fellow for good
and all ?'

No, if I am forced to refuse him outright,
I place myself in the wrong with the
authorities, don't you see ? Whereas, if I
can manage to send him about his business
without either of us committing ourselves,
nobody can prove I ever had a chance of
accepting him. Besides, it is only fair to
the man to stop him in good time.'

1 1 daresay you are right ; I know nothing
about love-affairs, and don't want to
know. However, I'll stand by yon, Linn,
never fear. It is rather fun outwitting
all their machinations ;' and b} r the word
1 their ' Clive evidently included more than
Mr. Ridgewav.

The young lawyer  a good-looking roan
of five-and-twenty, with carefully trimmed
moustache, and everything about him
spruce and spick and span  came to the
party at St. Stephen's Vicarage quite prepared
to see and conquer. Bat Lina dexterously
evaded him the whole evening,
using her position as daughter of the
house to introduce him to every girl in the
room, instead of dancing with him herself ;
even saying a little imperiously  ' Do go
and dance with Janet, she does not get
half so many partners as I do ;' and so dismissing
him, with a rueful face, to seek
her sister.

All the next day, Clive played his part
like a man, keeping close to Lina's side,
even holding her by the arm, when they
all went for a walk ; so that the edifying
spectacle was presented of the younger

sister being attended by a masculine companion
on each side, while the meek elder
sister trudged behind alone. Indoors
Give drew his chair close to Lina's, and
persistently read or painted without moving,
until Mr. Riclgeway was led to exclaim,
petulantly,

1 You two seem quite inseparable.'
1 Yes, we are generally taken for twins,
of the Siamese persuasion,' was Liua's
demure answer.

On the second evening of Mr. Rides
visit, there was to be a concert in
the school-room of a village three miles
distant. Mrs. Marsden laid her plans
with skill. She herself would drive in
the hired pony-carriage at a walking pace,
leaving the others, Janet, Lina, Give, and
Mr. Ridgeway, to take it in turns to be
her companions. It would be unheard of

ill-luck if she could not shuffle these cards
so as to leave Lima to walk with Mr.
Bidgeway for part of the distance.
But

The best-laid schemes of mice and men
Gang aft alley.'

Half-an-hour before the time of starting,
the rain came down in torrents. What
was to be done ? By no contrivance could
the pony-carriage be made to hold more
than three. It was out of the question
that Janet should be left behind, for she
was engaged to play at the concert the
accompaniments of one of the leading
vocalists  Mr Foster, an unmarried curate.
Neither could Mr. Eidgeway as a guest,
nor delicate Clive, nor Lina as a young
lady, be expected to walk through rain
and wind and mire. Nor was even Mrs.
Marsden capable of proposing that Lina

and her lover should remain at home together.
It was like the old puzzle of the
fox, the goose, and the corn, which exercised
the man crossing the ferry in a boat
which would hold only one at a time of
his possessions.

Clive settled the matter for himself by
taking up his position by the drawing-room
fire.

6 Nothing will induce me to stir out in
such weather, for a wretched amateur
performance.'

It is so unfortunate that the pony-carriage
w T ill not hold more than three,' murmured
Mrs. Marsden, disconsolately. ' I
would willingly remain at home too, only
I fear people would think it odd if I were
to let my dear girls appear at the concert
without a chaperon.'

I am inclined to have face-ache,' said

Lina, in a matter-of-fact tone, 'and I am
sure going out in such weather would not
improve it. So I shall stay at home, and
then you can all drive.'

'And you, Mr. Ridge way, what are
you inclined to do?' Mrs. Mars den smiled
sweetly at him, hoping that he also would
prefer to stay at home.

But Mr. Ridge way saw no hope for
himself that evening, considering that
Clive was still playing the part of buffer ;
so he answered gallantly  knowing that
nothing is ever lost by politeness to the
mother of one's ' affections' object ' 

We must not all desert you, Mrs.
Marsden, and I shall be delighted to accompany
you to the concert.'

Clive and Lina spent a peaceful evening
together in the drawing-room. Their
father was safe in his study writing next

Sunday's sermon. It was half-past ten.
Clive had gone upstairs to bed ; Lina was
standing before the fire, and was beginning
to think that she should be safer if
she followed his example, when there
came a ring at the front door-bell.

There they are, home already, but I
did not hear the pony-carriage w 7 heels.'
The thought had hardly crossed her mind
when the drawing-room door opened, and
Mr. Eidgeway entered, alone.

There was a slight flush on his cheeks,
and an amount of agitation about him,
which at once put Lina on the defensive.
She stood on the hearth rug, looking very
picturesque in her black evening gown,
with a knot of pink ribbon at her throat ;
she smiled, but her bright eyes flashed
defiance, there was something bewitching
and yet unapproachable about her.

Mrs. Marsden and your sister will be
borne directly,' he began, seeming a little
out of breath. * It is a fine night, so I
walked  I wanted to speak to you, Miss
Marsden  I have had no opportunity all
day  there is something I very much wish
to ask you.'

'Really.' Lina interrupted him with a
little laugh. ' What can you possibly
have to ask me? and with such a very
important and mysterious manner ! Dear
me ! what can it be ?'

He was disconcerted for a moment.

I  I  Miss Marsden  will you give me
your photograph ?'

Lina laughed again.

Don't think me very rude, but your
solemn manner, and then such a commonplace
thing to ask, it reminds me of the
street-sellers in the East  " In the name

of the Prophet  figs !" Of course I will
give you my photo, if I can find one tomorrow
; it is too late to look for it tonight.
How did you like the concert?'

I did not pay much attention to the
music, I must confess. I was anxious to
get back to the vicarage. I wanted to see
you.'

How very disappointed Janet will beat
your not paying any attention to the
music. She has been slaving away at Mr.
Foster's accompaniments for weeks. Some
people take such a time to learn anything,'
she added, significantly.

'Will you not give me your serious
attention for one moment ?'

Mr. Ridgeway was beginning' to get impatient.


No, I really cannot to-night, I am so

tired and stupid that I am ready to be
quite uncivil, and then perhaps you will
commit me for contempt of court  I forgot
though  it is only a judge who can do
that, isn't it? not every kind of lawyer.
What a good thing it is for me that you
are not a judge !'

Lina was talking nonsense just to gain
time. As she stood on the hearthrug
facing Mr. Kidgeway, with a mocking
smile, she slid her hand behind her, and
energetically pulled the bell. The maidservant
appeared.

Shut the shutters, if you please, Anne,
and you can put out the lamp, I am going
to bed ; and show Mr. Ridgeway into the
dining-room, supper is laid there for him 
and stay a moment, Anne, I want you to
light my candle. I am sure you will

excuse my bidding you good-night, Mr.
Bidgeway. My mother and Janet will be
home directly.'

There,' thought Lina, as she went upstairs,
'if he does not take that for an
answer, he must be a fool ! Oh, dear me,
it has been so like a couple of sparrows
!'

She laughed until she almost cried,
remembering one of the little bird-scenes
one may see in every spring. An amorous
cock-sparrow, with drooping wings and
tail outspread like a fan, chirping and
hopping round an unresponsive hen, who
every moment, as he comes near her, makes
little darts at him, and pecks him soundly
until he flies away in despair.

It was evident, next morning, that
Lina's tactics had been successful, and

that the allies, Mr. Bidgeway and Mrs.
Marsden, bad been routed with great
slaughter. The young lawyer had a stiff
and sulky air at breakfast-time, and he
departed soon afterwards without repeating
his request for the photograph.

I shall probably not see you again for
some time,' said he, in somewhat of an
injured tone, as he coldly shook hands
with Lina. ' I wish you every happiness.'

She drew a long breath of relief as the
house-door closed upon him.

There, he is gone for good ; and
nobody can say that I have refused him

Soon afterwards Mrs. Marsden called
her into her room, with an ominous

Lina, I wish to speak to you.'

Lina obeyed, comforting herself with
the reflection that no amount of maternal

wrath could bring back Mr. Ridgeway anymore
than last year's snow.

You girls are enough to break my
heart ;' and Mrs. Marsden threw herself
into an arm-chair. 'As if I had not
suffered enough through Harriet, but you
must behave in this way ! And there
was Janet last night, she made such
dreadful blunders in playing Mr. Foster's
accompaniments  nothing but nervousness;
I am sure she practised them until
I was sick of hearing them  but he did
not seem at all taken with her ; quite the
reverse. Janet is always unlucky  but
you, Lina, one might expect something
from you, and you are the worst of
all!'

'What have I done, mother?' asked
Lina, with a sweet and innocent face.

'You know very well what you have

done ! You have refused Mr. Riclgeway,
and thrown away the best chance you will
ever have in your life !'

Indeed, mother, I have not refused him.
"Nobody asked me, sir, she said'"

Then what did he mean by going off
in such a hurry this morning? You
must have refused him ; for, as he was
bidding me good-bye in the hall, he said
he had been very unlucky in not being
first in the field, for it was evident that
Miss Lina's affections were engaged elsewhere.
And now I wish to know, Lina,
whether you are carrying on some low,
clandestine engagement like your sister
Harriet ?'

He said that, did he ? he dared to say
that my affections were engaged elsewhere
!' Lina was thoroughly angry now.
How like a man ! They always think,

VOL. II. R

if you have not the good taste to admire
their perfections, it can only be because
you are already in love with some other
member of their incomparable sex. The
conceit of the creatures ! They cannot,
or they will not, believe that a girl can
be perfectly happy without any of them.
No, mother, thank you. I don't feel
in the least inclined to follow Harriet's
example. I don't think she looks quite
happy enough to suit me.'

4 Answer me, Lina, have you or have
you not, refused Mr. Ridgeway?'

1 1 have not refused him, for the sufficient
reason that he has not proposed to me.
Still, I think he never did a more sensible
thing in his life than when he walked off
this morning. And now, if you please,
mother,' added Lina, recovering her good

humour, i we will put up a tombstone to
Mr. Ridgeway, with R. I. P. on it, for all
the lamentation in the world won't bring
him to life again as my admirer.'

\i 2

CHAPTER XL

LOVE IS NOT ENOUGH.

Cecilia's little sitting-room at 25, Marine
Terrace, Penzance, seemed all bow-window.
Yon looked first into a tiny garden, with a
iron railing, then across the road and the
broad pavement of the esplanade, to the
sea.

The shores of Mount's Bay, which has
some resemblance, in miniature, to the
bay of Naples, stretched to right aud left,
with little St. Michael's Mount as a point

of interest, instead of Vesuvius. When
the morning sun shone, as it often does in
winter days in the far south-west, the sea
had a broad pathway of dazzling glory,
like myriads of diamonds quivering and
Hashing; the town, with St. Mary's church-tower
and the dome of the town-hall rising
above the clustered houses, glittered white
against a deep blue sky; the wooded hills
beyond glowed softly purple  one never
sees elsewhere in England such tenderly
bright hues in winter. Here and therein
the little gardens, roses, carnations,
geraniums were still blooming at Christ-pastime
; in another month tulips, scarlet
anemones and white narcissus would be in
flower. Autumn softly passes into spring
in a place whose mean temperature in
January is the same as Athens ; and
where the warm vapours of the Gulf

Stream make the winter nights as soft and
balmy as the days.

It may have been, as Mrs. Tremayne
supposed, that it was the climate of Penzance
which made Cecilia so weary and
languid, and so disinclined for exertion
for some weeks after the mother and
daughter had taken up their abode there.
Day after day, a sense of fatigue overpowered
her, and she lay for hours on the
sofa which was placed in the bow-window,
her eyes sometimes closed, sometimes
gazing on the sea.

Only in the pages of novels does brain
fever invariably follow intense grief and
anxiety. That disorder, with all its cir-
cutting-library associations, is rare enough
in most medical practice. In real life, a
severe mental shock is much more often
followed by various prosaic and by no

means alarming bodily symptoms  such
as ailments of the nerves and digestive
organs.

1 Ob, if I could only be alone, if I could
only have rest for a little while!' so
Cecilia sighed to herself sometimes in despair,
as her mother  sitting beside her,
in her black silk gown and picturesque
mob-cap, knitting stockings  went softly
prattling on and on, chiefly rambling
stories about her life in America.

When I was at Westonville  ' they all
began.

Cecilia could have cried out at last
with nervous irritation when she heard
those fatal words  the very name, Weston-ville,
with its barbarous mixture of French
and English derivations, set her teeth on
edge. Sometimes she would take up a
book, which she was too weary to do more

than pretend to read, as a sort of defence.
But, just when she thought her mother
had really no more to say, she would,
regardless that Cecilia appeared to be
absorbed in reading, begin another ' story
without an end.'

There is nothing in human life more
amazing than the never-failing pleasure
which many people find in talking. If
they are sad, they talk to ease their griefs ;
if they are happy, they talk as a safety-valve
to their spirits ; if they read a book
or a newspaper, they talk about it while
they read ; if they have a great many
things to do, they talk about their work ;
if they have nothing to do, they talk still
more ; they talk to strangers to wile away
the tedium of a journey by rail or steamer,
they talk to friends and acquaintances as if
to fulfil the most sacred duty and the

sweetest pleasure of social life ; nothing but
severe illness can lessen their powers of
speech, and the sharpest sting of death to
them is the silence of the grave.

Cecilia's only respite was when Mrs.
Tremayne departed into the sitting-room
of the landlady of the lodgings. She
found an appreciative listener in Mrs.
Bosustow, a kindly, good-natured, rather
sentimental widow who seemed to have
grown fat upon the hundredweight of
novels she consumed, and who found real
life rather dull in the little Cornish town.
She hailed Mrs. Tremayne's stories of her
American days as something romantic and
out-of-the-common. and there grew up a
friendship between the two widows, the
landlady and her lodger, which was a
great consolation to Cecilia.

There were only one or two subjects in

which she had anything in common with
her mother. Mrs. Tremayne had not lost
that love of nature, that keen eye to see
beauty in sea and earth and sky, which
long ago had first attracted to her her
unlucky artist husband. She was passionately
fond of flowers, and arranged them
in their little sitting-room with perfect
taste. And once Cecilia was startled by
her mother's quick appreciation of a good
picture, and her shrewd criticisms on
others, which they saw at one of the art
exhibitions they sometimes have at Penzance.


So, when a soft babble of talk was heard
in Mrs. Bosustow's sitting-room, Cecilia
would often put on her hat and cloak,
steal out unobserved, and, crossing the
esplanade, would descend the flight of
steps to the sands below. There she

would wander up and down for an hour
or two beside the breaking waves, plunged
in that profound sadness which the sea
often brings to sensitive people, yet thankful
for solitude and silence and the vast
space around her.

The best days of her life, its hopes, its
brightness, were all over for her. In days
gone by, amidst the luxury and beauty of
her uncle's home, she had sometimes
beaten her wings against the gilded bars
of her cage, longing for wider interests,
for a life nobler, fuller, higher, even if less
easy and pleasant, than hers ever could beat
Morwell Vicarage. And now her world
had still more contracted, and she was
doomed to an existence duller, narrower,
pettier than any she had ever realized
before  except when sometimes she had
glanced with exceeding pity on some poor

gentlewoman doomed to eke out a scanty
income in humble lodgings, like those in
Marine Terrace.

The very smallness of these lodgings
was a trial to her  the low ceilings, the
cramped staircase, the crowded chairs and
tables, which seemed always in the way 
after the space and air and gloominess of a
country gentleman's house. The very ease
and dignity with which Cecilia moved,
showed that she had been brought up
amidst large and spacious surroundings.
Then one day, there suddenly came to hera
thought which lifted her far above these
petty vexations.

Maurice O'O'Donovan's prison-cell was
smaller than mine.'

Sometimes her whole nature rose up in
wild revolt against the two people most
nearly related to her, her uncle and her

mother  the gentle, wearisome mother, to
whom she had sacrificed her happiness,
and who had not only accepted the sacrifice,
but did not appear to know it was
one. She admired Cecilia, she was proud
of her, she was ready to devote herself to
her, to become her servant; she lavished
all her affection upon her daughter, and it
never entered her head to suppose that
Cecilia was not now far happier living with
her mother, than she could be with anybody
else in the world  except, perhaps, a
husband.

'Such a dull life for a girl Mrs. Tree
said one day ; ' living at Morwell
Vicarage, with no parents, no brothers and
sisters, nobody but a parson, a regular old
bachelor in all his ways.' She could
never have understood that the comparative
freedom and independence of Cecilia's

life was to her its greatest charm. Mr.
Tremayne's ' bachelor ways '  his habit of
seclusion, spending hours alone in his
study, drawing or reading ; his preference
for driving alone when he went out in his
brougham, to having even Cecilia for his
companion; his absolute silence for the
whole of a winter evening, when he sat
by the drawing-room fire-side absorbed ina
novel  these 'bachelor ways' were delightful
to Cecilia, who could live much of
her own life undisturbed.

Whilst her mother's caressing, clinging
fondness, was to Cecilia like soft arms
twined round her neck, dragging her
down, and slowly suffocating her. Mrs.
Tremayne's fusing over her health, her
terrors lest she should take cold if she
went out in the rain, her struggles to keep
the windows shut lest the wind should

blow too roughly upon her, her lamentations
at meal-times if Cecilia's appetite was
bad  all this was a worry and an irritation
to a woman accustomed for years, as she
had been, to be the mistress of a household,
able to go in and out, to eat or not
eat, as she pleased. For what is love
worth if it be not accompanied by tact and
sympathy and understanding? it may
become a very mill-stone hung round the
neck of the beloved one.

Then, when Cecilia recalled her past life
at Morwell  how her uncle had never
worried her, never interfered with her, but
had gone his own way, and let her go
hers ; as she remembered what a thorough
harmony there had been between them in
their daily, household life  for the fundamental
differences in their opinions had
ever been kept out of sight  how, by the

sympathy there was between them, Cecilia
could always divine her uncle's tastes and
likings, and found it an easy and a pleasant
task to gratify them  when she remembered
all this, sometimes in the dead of night,
a storm of grief and regret and indignation
would overwhelm her.

He had thrust her out of his home without
compunction, this man whom she had
looked upon as a father ; he had sacrificed
her  as he had sacrificed her mother before
her  to the ruthless Moloch of his family
pride.

'' And my mother would have been
content then with so little, she asked only
that I should visit her sometimes in her
distant home ; never would she have
obtruded herself upon him, he might have
ignored her existence, and have forgotten
it in time. But he cares nothing for me,

I who have been like his own daughter
for so many years : he cared only that I
was a Tremayne, and now, that in his eyes
I am no longer worthy of the name, he
casts me off for ever.'

Every time the postman came up the
little garden to the front door her heart
throbbed with the hope  hope always
disappointed  that at last her uncle might
have written to her. She craved for tidings
from Morwell ; it was like being dead
and forgotten to know nothing of her old
home ; how fared it with her uncle, with
Clive and Lina Marsden, with her old
servants and the village people, with her
garden, her flowers, and  not least  her
tame robin. Sometimes, she thought she
must run the risk of her uncle's increased
displeasure, and write to him ; but she was
kept silent by the remembrance that he

VOL. II. s

knew her address, and could write to her
if he wished, and that he had never replied
to her farewell letter. She determined
that before the winter was over, she would
write to Lina Marsden, but there was an
inevitable amount of humiliation in the
step she had taken of leaving her home to
descend in the social scale, which made her
shrink from any communication with her
friends, until all hope of reconciliation
with her uncle was at an end.

And when Christmas morning came,
and brought with it no letter, no token of
remembrance from Morwell Vicarage 
then Cecilia felt herself indeed forsaken.

Christmas Day passed like a dream to
her. The sun shone brilliantly from the
time he rose above the long, low line of the
distant Lizard, until he sank in gold and
crimson glory above the wooded heights

in the direction of the Land's End. At the
Tremaynes' early dinner the window was
wide open, and mignonette, still flowering
in a sheltered corner of the garden, perfumed
the air. The table was decorated
with Gloire-de-Dijon and pink monthly
roses, which had been blooming out of
doors, and there was also a glass or two
of pink champions and fern leaves and
sweet-scented butter-bur, which Mrs. Tree
had picked on the hedge banks.

After dinner the mother and daughter
went down to the sea-shore. It was
nearly low water, and they spent the
whole of that golden afternoon sitting on
the rocks, which the tide had left bare.
There were shallow pools in these black
and slaty rocks, fringed with long tresses
of pink or dark green sea-weed, here and
there was a crimson sea-anemone, or the

g2

gleam of a pearly shell. The low rays of
the afternoon sun, with pink lights and
purple shadows, slept softly on the shores
of Marathon : the scattered houses, the
rocks and towers of St. Michael's Mount
stood out like delicate carved work. The
sea was smooth as glass, shallow ripples
broke on .the sands with only the faintest
murmur; the red-brown sails of the
Mount's bay fishing-boats glowed against
the cloudless sky. The townspeople, and
those few visitors who know the charms
of Penzance in winter, were walking up
and down, or crowding the seats on the
esplanade ; but Mrs. Tremayne and Cecilia
w r ere undisturbed in the solitary nook
they had found amongst the rocks.

Cecilia, long trained to self-repression 
for with her uncle she had never uttered
one of her deepest thoughts and feelings

was able to seem bright and cheerful
this Christmas afternoon, although her
heart ached at times with downright physical
pain. It was one of the struggles of
her life  a struggle which almost exhausted
her strength  to try to seem happy in
her present home, and to hide all her
regrets for the time before she had known
her mother.

4 Tell me about my father,' she said,
hoping to divert her mother's talking
powers into a more interesting channel
than their usual drift, the farm at West
where the happiest years of Mrs.
Tremayne's life had been spent. And
then when Cecilia had heard all that her
mother had to tell  it did not seem much,
after all, and Cecilia had heard it
before  about Gerald Tremayne, with his
charming ways, his sweet temper, his

artistic tastes, and also his improvidence,
his lavish generosity, his general recklessness,
which finally placed himself, his wife
and child, all at the mercy of the elder
brother  then Cecilia said,

'Mother, can you tell me anything
about my uncle when he was a young
man?'

Well, I don't know that I can tell you
much about him. He was always a strike
man as long as I can remember,
tall and mortally proud-looking,
and clear, bright eyes that seemed as
though he had never done anything to
be ashamed of  your eyes are like his,
my dear  and a way with him that was
very gentle, but which frightened some
people  I know it did me, because it made
me feel so small and so common beside
him. I guess you wonder how a man like

him could bravo treated me so cruelly as he
did. But I shall always think there was
something in his past life which accounts
for the horror he had of his brother's
marrying me

Cecilia's cheeks flushed with eager interest
 was she at last to possess the clue to
her uncle's almost inexplicable hardness of
heart where his brother's mesalliance was
concerned ?

4 Did you ever hear tell,' Mrs. Tremayne
resumed, ' about Lizzie Awdry, the village
school-mistress?'

1 Never  what do you mean ?'

4 Well, have you never wondered why
your uncle did not marry, such a fine
handsome man as he has always been ?'

Yes, I have wondered, certainly,' Cecilia
answered, a little reluctantly ; she w r as
divided between a longing to know a little

more of her uncle's history, and a shrinking
from discussing it with Mrs. Tremayne.
She had an instinctive feeling that after all
her uncle and herself were very near akin,
and her mother was only an outsider. ' Of
course, some men in his position would
have been very anxious for an heir ; but,
after all, my uncle and my father belong
to the younger branch of the Tremaynes,
the estates have all gone to a distant
cousin.'

I know all that, my dear,' replied Mrs.
Tremayne, complacently, c I know pretty
nearly all there is to tell about the family.
And I guess you don't know all that I do.
Well, when your uncle was a } T young man of
three-and-twenty, just ordained curate to
a little parish in Cornwall, I forget the
name of it, there was a young woman there,
Lizzie Awdry by name, the village schoolmistress.

I conclude, from what your
father told me about her, she was just one
of those girls who somehow can make any
man they choose go quite out of his mind.
I can't tell how they do it, I am inclined
to think no really decent woman knows,
but there are women like it everywhere,
not much to look at, some of them. I
conclude they were born to make fools
and worse of men, so as to take vengeance

7 CD

upon them for all the misery men bring
upon women. Well, my dear, your father
told me that your uncle Reginald, haughty,
high-spirited man as he was, who thought
hardly any lady of his own sort good
enough for him to look at, was sent clean
off his head by this Lizzie Awdry. There
was some poetry your father read to me
once, he was very fond of reading to me,
and I shall always remember that poem,

because the woman in it  Vivian, I think
she was called  was just like Lizzie
Awdry.'

Mother !' and Cecilia recoiled with a
cry of pain. 'It is not possible ! No, I cannot
believe that of Uncle Reginald !'

Dear Cecilia, don't mistake me ; there
was nothing wrong of that sort, my
husband assured me. No, no, Lizzie
Awdry took good care of herself, and all
she thought about was making a good
match. No, indeed; your uncle promised
to marry her, what do you think of that ? T
cried Mrs. Tremayne, triumphantly. ; Not
much better than marrying a servant like
me, was it ?'

1 But, then, why  why was he so angry
with my father ?'

My dear, I have found out that there
are no people in the world likely to be so

severe to other's faults, as those who have
had a secret leaning to those very faults
themselves. But I have not told you the
end of the story ; it was really laughable,
though it was anything but a laughing
matter to your uncle. That hussy went
on fooling him, and making him just like a
crazy man for any good he was in the
parish  then one fine morning she goes
off and gets married to a rich grocer at
Plymouth, an oldish man and very ugly,
by the name of Sloggett, "Well, it was
nearly the death of your uncle when he
heard of it. All his love for her was
gone in one minute, and he seemed to
wake up like a man out of a drunken
sleep. Think how mad he must have
been at having been tricked, at letting
himself down to offer to marry a low-bred,
hardly respectable girl like her, and then

to be jilted after all  he, Mr. Reginald
Treiuayne, for a grocer ! Well, the end
of it was he threw up his curacy and fled
from the place, for he could not bear the
sight of anyone who knew him there ;
and now, I think, if anyone w 7 as to mention
to him the name of Lizzie Aw dry 
or Lizzie Sloggett, the grocer's wife as
she is now  it would be like cutting him
across the face with a whip.'

Cecilia was quite overwhelmed.

I can hardly bear to think about it,
pray don't say any more. I think I
understand him now better than I ever
did before-No wonder he never forgave
my father and mother she thought
bitterly, yet with an intense compassion
for her uncle, realising what an agony of
humiliation the proud man must have
suffered in his youth.

I can tell you one thing more, Cecilia,
to account for his never marrying. Your
father was pretty certain that, years after
that Lizzie Awdry affair, your uncle
offered himself to a lady of his own rank,
but she would have nothing to say to
him because, you see, she was in love
with some one else, and so, from that
day forward, he would have nothing more
to do with marrying. I must say he has
been very unlucky.

Poor uncle !' and then Cecilia checked
herself and said no more  feeling that to
a man like Reginald Tremayne pity was
but a form of insult.

Well, my clear,' said her mother, presently,
' I conclude we should be turning
our steps homeward. It is near sundown.
Though certainly the nights here are
nearly as warm as the days. I guess we

should have been pretty surprised at
winter weather like this at "Weston ville.'

Cecilia's one gleam of brightness on
Christmas Day was a long and most
affectionate letter from Mrs. Kivers. Her
husband had returned home from America,
and Kathleen wrote thus :

Now that Maurice is free, this would
be the happiest Christmas of my life, if I
could think of you. my dear girl, as being
happy too. But 1 know that, noble and
beautiful as is the life you have chosen for
yourself, it cannot be a bright one. You
are constantly in our thoughts, and my
husband and Maurice and I often talk of
you I know that you will rejoice
with me when I tell you that Maurice
seems fairly restored to health, though a
strong man again I fear he never will be.
Of course our Parliamentary leaders are

now in Ireland, but Maurice has made the
acquaintance of some of our countrymen
who live in London, chief amongst whom
is Mr. A. M. Sullivan, for whom we have
the greatest reverence and admiration. *

1 Maurice will be legally disqualified fora
seat in Parliament until his sentence has
expired, three years hence. Otherwise the
fact of his having been a seven years'
prisoner for the part he took in '67 would
make his return certain for almost any
Irish borough. But there is no reason
why he should not work loyally with our
Parliamentary party outside the House of
Commons, even though he may not agree
with them on every point. It has been
the curse of our country for ages that our
people could not sink their various minor

Alas for Ireland, that one of the noblest of her sons
now sleeps in Glasnevin Cemetery.

differences, and work together for one
great, common cause, our national freedom.
But I need not tell you, who know
Maurice, that he is without thought of self ;
he does not look for glory, for even popularity
amongst his countrymen ; all he
asks for is the honour of being allowed to
suffer for Ireland.'

In the catastrophe which had fallen on
Cecilia's life, her mind had lately been too
full of conflicting claims, too full of strife
and anxiety, and the uprooting from her
home and all past associations, for
Maurice to hold the first place in her
thoughts. But just as when the surface
of a clear lake is ruffled by the wind, the
depths are not disturbed, and as soon as
the wind dies down the lake again reflects
the quiet sky and the lonely stars, so  now
all hope of her uncle's relenting, and of

her return to Morwell Vicarage bad passed
away  Cecilia became calm again, and her
mind was once more filled with the lofty
vision of her love.

It is not likely we shall ever meet
again she thought. 'Marriage between
us is impossible, and not even to be
desired. But love Maurice O'O'Donovan I
shall, whilst I live and move and have my
being.'

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XII

A PACK OF Cards,

It was Sunday, the day in all the week
most dreaded by Harriet Wendron. For
on that day the dulness of her whole life
at Radford Farm seemed to culminate.
All her illusions, all her fancies that marriage
was the gateway of a new world, had
faded long ago, and she found that existence
at the farm was far more wearisome
and depressing than it used to be at St.
Stephen's Vicarage.

c At least she thought, regretfully, ' 1

bad Clive, and the girls to talk to, and we
had good fun sometimes; but here -oh,
heavens ! I think I shall yawn myself into
my grave.'

Robert Wendron was no longer the
passionate, if somewhat rough and overbearing
lover, who had half frightened,
half-fascinated her into loving him. He
was the most matter-of-fact husband, who
had a faithful affection for her at heart,
but who paid her no more compliments or
attentions than he did his old mother.
Harriet saw very little of him. He rose
in the winter mornings long before daylight,
and went out somewhere about his
farm, returning to an early breakfast, to
which Harriet used to struggle to comedown,
but, as often as not, when she
appeared, looking sleepy and untidy after a
hasty toilet, Robert had gone out again tot

2

appear no more until the one o'clock
dinner. At meal times be sometimes
hardly spoke a word, or be addressed all
bis conversation to bis mother, for what
did Harriet care for ' talk of bullocks,' as
the Apocrypha has it. After dinner he
was off to the farm again.

No more drives in the dog-cart for
Harriet except once a week or so, when
they went to Tavistock. Robert wanted
the horse, for riding about the moor, He
divided the evenings between sleeping and
reading the Western Morning News, and so
the weeks went on, and Harriet, began
to think that death from ennui might
be something more than a Frenchman's
myth.

What was there for her to do ? She had
begun her married life by allowing Robert's
mother to superintend all the household

work as before, and now the old lady was
jealous of her rights, and disliked interference.
Harriet never cared for any books
except novels, and she was too much
terrified at the thought of meeting her
father and mother to venture into the
village. Sometimes she would make
the excuse of shopping to be done, and
would take the train to Tavistock ; there
she would go wandering up and down
the one principal street of the little town,
looking into its few shop windows, and
buying cheap novels at the railway bookstall.
Even this trivial amusement had its
alloy when she met some old acquaintances,
and they passed her, with heads in the
air and eyes looking straight before them,
in all the stony impassiveness of a cut
direct.

And now Sunday had come, and Harriet

groaned for very weariness. After breakfast
 a later and more leisurely meal than
on week-days, and prayers of a portentous
length, read by Mrs. Wendron with extreme
slowness, and emphasis without
particular meaning  Robert went off to
teach his class in the Sunday school.
When they were first married he had
proposed Harriet doing likewise, but
she only stared in amazement at the
idea.

Even papa never expected me todo
that, we left all that sort of thing to
Janet.'

Robert said no more, but he had not
forgotten his wife's refusal, and he had
gone to the Sunday school ever since with
a grim and injured air which he hoped
might in time work upon Harriet's better
feelings.

Robert, looking very handsome in his
sombre way, met his wife and mother at
the door of Bethesda Chapel. Old Mrs.
Wendron, in her plain black gown and
widow's bonnet, with her snow-white hair,
and fresh complexion, had a homely sort
of refinement about her, and Harriet was
very different in appearance from the other
young women who worshipped in the
little white-washed building. Her taste in
dress had been educated to a certain
extent by her brother Clive, and this had
made her seek simplicity and sober hues,
so that she was called a poor dowdy by
many of the other farmers' wives, who
wondered why, if Bob Wendron had
chosen to marry a Church parson's
daughter, he could not have picked out a
smarter looking one.

They went up the narrow wooden staircase

to their pew in front of the gallery.
Old Mrs. Wendron was in a subdued
flatter about the preacher for that Sunday.
He was the Rev. Mr. Northinore, a shining
light in the connection, a regularly ordained
minister, no mere ' local,' a draper or
grocer with a gift of expounding. Harriet
resigned herself with a dull misery to
endure the coming hour and a half, thinking,
with a vague regret,

'Papa's sermons were stupid enough,
but at least we had the chants and the
responses to make a variety, and there was
always some amusement in looking out for
Janet's blunders in playing the harmonium.'


Robert had an air of superior, and rather
sulky virtue, which came from much
wrestling with the devil in some of his
Sunday scholars.

Having folded his arms on the little
shelf before him, and devoutly hidden his
face upon them, he stood up just as Mr.
Northmore, an elderly man with loose
jointed limbs, and rather flabby unctuous
face, gave out one of Wesley's hymns 
Eobert stood up for the purpose of disencumbering
himself of a heavy great-coat
with a velveteen collar. This done, he
threw it half over the edge of the pew,
which was a front and conspicuous one.
And then a very awful thing happened.

From out of the pocket of that greatcoat
fell a whole pack of cards. Kings,
queens, knaves, black and red, with all
their belongings, fell in an unholy shower
on the pews below, pattering on the hymnbooks,
hitting the bald head of an eminent
and elderly class-leader, and the Sunday
bonnets of various feminine members of

the congregation. A thrill of horror ran
through the chapel. Mr. Northmore
came to a dead pause in giving out the
hymn, and everybody stared up at the
gallery, and fixed their eyes on the
Wondrous' pew.

Fortunately for her peace of mind, old
Mrs. Wendron was not aware of what had
happened, for her spectacled eyes were
fixed upon her book, searching for the
hymn. Harriet put up her handkerchief
to her face to hide her confusion and an
irrepressible laugh. When, after a minute,
she glanced with mirth in her eyes at the
culprit, her husband, she was amazed at
his perfectly savage look of rage and
shame.

Good gracious !' she thought, ' it was
a very ridiculous thing to happen, of course,
but what was there in it to make everybody

seem so awfully shocked? Robert
looks as if he were swearing in his heart,
which is much wickeder than throwing
cards about the chapel. 5 Harriet did not
venture to look at him again, but he had an
injured air, half-defiant, half shame-faced,
throughout the rest of the service.

By and by Harriet's attention was
attracted by the sermon. It was not such
a one as she had heard last Sunday, and
which had impressed even her shallow
mind  a sermon full of power and passion
and poetry, even though the preacher of
it was only a Cornish shoe-maker.

Mr. Northmore chose for the subject of
his discourse the serpents of the Bible, and
his remarks thereupon were ingenious, if
somewhat singular.*

The author wishes to state that the following remarks
were actually delivered by a preacher from a pulpit in her
hearing.

He began with a vivid description of
the garden of Eden, and the Tempter
therein, ' who was undistinguishable from
the grass amidst which he crawled, because
he was so green.' Some lively anecdotes
of the various serpents in the Regent's Park
Zoological Gardens next riveted the attention
of all the boys in the congregation,
and kept their restless limbs quiet. Then
he spoke of the traces of sin in the world,
like 'the trail of the tail of the devil
amongst the young plants in the garden,
as it were,' and, concluding with a lurid
picture of a world where the last-named
personage is supposed to reign supreme,
he ' thanked God that though the belief in
eternal punishment was dying out in towns,
it still lived on in the country.'

By the time Mr. JNJorthmore had pronounced
' Amen,' Harriet was in a miserable,

half hysterical state of suppressed
laughter, and it was very dreadful to her
to remember that she should meet him
again that afternoon at her own table.

It was always a red-letter day to old
Mrs. Wendron when the minister came to
dinner, and she had been very busy all
Saturday preparing good things. Harriet
had never seen at St. Stephen's Vicarage
a table so laden with ' vulgar plenty,' as
Mrs. Marsden would have called it  for
it was not always easy for her to pay the
butcher's bills. Harriet had attempted a
mild expostulation.

Do you think so many things are necessary,
Mrs. Wendron ? We never had such
a number of different dishes at home.'

1 Ah ! no, I daresay not,' answered Mrs.
Wendron, quite mistaking the point of her
daughter-in-law's remarks. ' I have heard

as how you at the vicarage were all rather
pinched at times to make both ends meet.
Ah, dear, dear  'tis sad to see the gentry
so poor! But you shall always have
enough here and to spare, Harriet, my
dear.'

If the old lady's happiness in entertaining
her minister had not made her chatter
away, the meal would have been a very
silent one. Mr. Northmore had an expression
which made one think of a tightly
corked-up bottle of vinegar. Robert
had the sullen, yet defiant look of a
criminal in the dock.

What in the world is the matter with
the two men ?' thought Harriet. ' The
sermon seems to have disagreed with them
both.'

The minister probably thought it politic
to get dinner over, before he disburdened

himself of the lecture he meant to give his
host. Having partaken heartily of every
dish on the table, with a faint pretence of
resistance when old Mrs. Wendron pressed
them upon him, he pushed his plate from
him, leaned back in his chair, and began.

1 1 think, Mr. Wendron, you must feel
that I and all the connection expect from
you some explanation of the startling and
lamentable occurrence which took place at
divine worship this morning.'

Easy enough to explain,' said the
prisoner at the bar, looking his judge
doggedly in the face, but getting rather
red. 'Yesterday afternoon I'd just come
home from Tavistock, and I found two
young chaps that work on my farm  boys
in my Sunday-school class  playing with
a lot of old cards in one of my barns. I
just gave it to 'em hot, and I put those  '

(a very naughty word all but passed
Robert's lips) ' I put those cards into my
great-coat pocket, and never thought of
them again.'

You did very right replied Mr. North-more,
more mildly. 'Still, your negligence
in not at once destroying those painted
toys of Satan was very culpable, and may
have laid a snare for some of the younger
and weaker brethren. We are told to
avoid all appearance of evil, Mr. "Wen-iron.'


Harriet was amazed to see her masterful
husband sit silent with a shame-faced look
to be lectured at his own table by a guest.
She did not realize his early training, how
he had been taught from his childhood to
revere the sacred office of preacher, or she
would have known that the ' sacerdotal
principle' is often to be found flourishing

in Nonconformist regions. And, moreover,
Robert, though he knew he was guiltless,
had none of the tact and good-breeding by
which a gentleman would have extricated
himself with good-humoured ease from
such a dilemma. His wife gave a little
scornful laugh, and rose from the table.

1 Really, I don't see what all the fuss is
about. Of course it was a very absurd
and tiresome thing to happen, but where
would have been the harm if they had
been your own pack of cards, Robert?
I only wish you would play with me sometimes
in the evenings. I would be thankful
iov a game even of "Beggar my Neighbour."
'

Robert, although he had told the literal
truth about the way in which the unlucky
cards had come into his possession, here
looked at his wife with the reproach and

vol. li. u

helpless fury of a criminal whose comrade
had turned Queen's evidence. Harriet
left the room, while Mr. Northmore
groaned,

Ah ! my dear young friend, you realize
the truth of the inspired words: "How
can two walk together unless they be
agreed ?" I know how High-church
families are brought up. All forms and
ceremonies. No vital religion, sad laxity
as to card-playing, and novel-reading, and
other worldly amusements. Well  well,
Mr. Wendron, we shall look to you to bethe
means of your wife's conversion.'

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : miNTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

wvft-trjiwTfcyfyM)

BtLY Spender

winmiiMiMlH

AHO AT TtWAOOKSTAUL,

HOVELS are issued w an terms"

BOOKSTALL !

For THREE   . . - 1 f g . & 8 O

r For FOUR  ,. -  " a 5 O - B *

For SIX.

OF THE

Universe City

Of Ill Noise

v 3

VOL. 'ill

BY

EMILY SPENDER

AUTHOR OF

"restored," u a true marriage'

&c, &c.

One equal temper of heroic hearts

Made weak by time and fate, but strong in will

To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield."

Tennyson.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:

HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1886.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/untildaybreaks03spen

CHAPTER I.

HARRIET AMUSES HERSELF.

The consequence of Mr. Northwards
lecture appeared the following day.

When Robert came home to dinner he
found his wife lounging in an arm-chair
before the parlour fire, in her hand a
novel which she had bought at the railway
book-stall at Tavistock. It was a pretty
little story, with an excellent moral tone,

VOL. III. B

but the red and yellow paper cover was
quite enough for Robert.

You ought to be ashamed of yourself,
Harriet he thundered, ' wasting your time
in reading such abominable trash !'

Harriet was naturally a little irritated,
but her husband did not consider that he
was saying anything offensive ; he was
merely expressing himself in a masculine
and emphatic manner.

How you startled me, Robert ! It's
not trash at all; it's an awfully nice
book.'

'Yes, I daresay you think so. But I'll
tell you what it is : I am not going to
have any of those sort of books in my
house; so just you send it back where it
came from, and never let me catch you
reading anything like it again.'

'Really, Robert, you are just as bad as
papa ;' and Harriet began to feel that
she had only exchanged one tyrant for
another.

It commonly happens that, when girls
marry merely to get away from the
paternal roof, they have cause to remember
the homely proverb, 'Out of
the frying-pan into the fire,' and the
ancient fable of ' King Log and King
Stork.'

Robert was furious at being compared
to a worldly-minded Church parson. With
one stride towards his wife he snatched
the novel out of her hand, and threw it
into the fire. Harriet, with a cry of
dismay, made a bound forward to rescue
her cherished 'yellow-backs but Robert
was too quick for her ; he seized both herb

2

bauds, and held them until the unlucky
novel was consumed.

You are behaving in the most ungentlemanly
way !' exclaimed Harriet,
ready to cry with rage and mortification.

Did I ever set up to be a gentleman ?'
asked Robert, with a grim laugh.

His two masculine instincts of destruction
and domination had been sufficiently
gratified to put him in a good humour
again. He threw his arm round Harriet's
w r list, and kissed her averted cheek.

1 Come now, it's no use for you to look
so sulky, my dear. I mean to have my
own way about the books that come into
my house, so you had better make up your
mind to it at once.'

'What am I to do if I don't read?'
asked Harriet, sullenly.

It is not your reading I object to.
I don't want you to do the housework ;
that's my mother's business, and what
she's been used to all her life. You area
lad}?-, and I can afford to keep you like
one, and I like to see you sitting by the
fire with a book in your hand, like a
pretty chimney ornament ; but I'll not
have you poison your mind with novels.
There's plenty of good books for you to
read upon those shelves up there which
belonged to my father, who was a good,
sensible, pious man, if ever there was
one.'

Harriet had long ago looked through
the library of the late Mr. Wendron, and
had found it to consist chiefly of sermons,
memoirs of departed ministers, and volumes
of the ' Methodist Magazine.' The

only works of fiction on the book-shelves
were stories for children, published by the
Religious Tract Society, and presented to
Robert in his early youth.

After dinner, when her husband had
gone back to the farm, Harriet, in a sort of
desperation, put on her hat and cloak, and
went into the village. If she met her
father or mother, it might be unpleasant,
but at least it would be a diversion from
the unbearable monotony of ber life. But
after plodding along the muddy road, and
seeing nothing but ducks, geese, and a few
cottagers, she was considering whether she
should have courage enough to walk past
St. Stephen's Vicarage, when she saw
coming towards her a slight, girlish, very
familiar figure.

4 Lina !' cried Harriet, quickening her

languid steps. f How awfully glad I am
to see you ! I suppose you will speak tome,'
she added, a little doubtfully.

Of course I shall,' replied Lina, smiling
at her eagerness ; never before had Harriet
shown such joy at meeting any of her
relations. ' This is a lucky meeting ; but I
think we had better turn into that lane,
and not do our talking in the high-road.
Father is prowling somewhere about the
village.'

I am perfectly ravenous for news of
you all,' said Harriet, when the two sisters
were safe in a miry lane, which led to
fields and nowhere else. 'How is Clive?'
and she began with an inquiry after that
member of the family who had always been
the most interesting to her.

1 Decidedly better, I hope. He has had

something a little more pleasant than
usual to think about, poor boy. Mr. Tree
has been remarkably kind to him
this winter, he seems to have taken a great
liking to him. The authorities grumble a
little at his so often dining at Morwell
Vicarage, but they don't really object 
something may come of it, mother says,
who knows but that Mr. Tremayne will
make him his heir ? Unfortunately for
this idea, Mr. Tremayne is as likely as not
to outlive Clive. By-the-by, Harriet  have
you heard about Cecilia?'

No, what is it ? Is she going to be
married,' cried Harriet, breathlessly.

Oh, dear no, she has not followed your
example  or rather, if she has eloped with
anybody it is w r with her own mother. It
is a perfect mystery ;' and then Lina told

Harriet all that was known about Cecilia's
disappearance from Morwell Vicarage. ' I
happen to be aware of one thing, which
people generally are not, and that is where
she is  Mr. Tremayne told Clive. She is
at Marine Terrace, Penzance. I know the
terrace well. Don't you remember my
spending the Easter holidays there years
ago, with my school-fellows, the Pol-years
?'

'I wish Cecilia would ask me to stay
with her,' sighed Harriet.

And now I want to know all about yourself,'
said Lina, when she had told her
sister all the small events of the household
at St. Stephen's Vicarage. ' It seems
strange that I should be absolutely
ignorant of your husband and your
home.'

Harriet

feel bad

burgs

I: mary nice house, thir

is only a farm-house. It is so much

le in the
:an th. And we

only I

:;"t think what a comfort

I screw, and

think of ever awfully

I o you think

of m And Harriet

down upon her brown



1 Hara
comical smile, when the cloak h

'Well  I clout know about that, but at
all events I have more money to spend
than I ever had before ; we are not at all
badly off, and Mrs. Wendron is a capital
manager. She is an awfully good-natured
old thing, I am sure you would like her.'

4 And Mr. Wendron  you have said
nothing about him.'

Harriet looked rather embarrassed.

Well, he  he is awfully nice, when he is
nice. Yes, really, Lina, Robert can be quite
fascinating when he likes. I wish you
could come home with me,' (Robert's wife
seemed glad to change the subject,) ' and
see my house and all my new things ; there
is not much pleasure in having them if
there is no one to show them to.'

1 It seems very unkind of me to refuse,
but I think I must put off, what really

would be a great pleasure to me, until I
am one-and-twenty, and am a little more
my own mistress than I am at present.
You know, Harriet, I have applied to the
council of " The Girls' High-school
Company " for a post as assistant
mistress.'

Harriet sighed again.

1 You will come and see me then, I hope.
I shall be awfully glad to have some one to
talk to. I can't make friends with any of
the farmers' wives that l\lrs. Wendron
knows, I don't know what to say to them ;
and they are all awfully stiff to me, and
stare at me so, as though I was an intruder;
and they gossip away with Robert and his
mother about all sorts of stupid things,
and people I know nothing about ; and I
sit by the fire, and say nothing, and oh

dear, it is all so dull, and the days seem
so long, I don't know what to do with
myself.'

1 But haven't you to look after the
butter, and cream, and the poultry? I
thought farmers' wives always did that sort
of thing.'

Yes, but Mrs. Wendron does all that,
and does not like me to interfere, and
Robert says that I can live like a ladj\
Oh, Lina, you can't think how awfully slow
it is to be married ! So long as one is
single, one has the hope of something
happening some day, there is always the
chance of meeting some one nice; but when
once you are married, you know it is allover,
and everything has come to an end,
and nothing more that is interesting will
ever happen again as long as you live''

and Harriet felt, as many young married
women do, that she had lost her distant
horizon.

Well, but, my dear creature, I thought
you used to find your life at home so unbearably
slow ?'

1 1 know I did ; but still we did go to
parties now and then, aud people used to
call sometimes, and we went to Plymouth
two or three times a year, and there were
always you and Clive to talk to. Xow
there is nobody, and nothing, and nowhere
to go to. Well, I must go home
again now, for it is nearly tea-time, and
Robert cannot bear me to be away at
meal-times.'

'Come,' said Lina, smiling, feeling she
must try to cheer up her sister, ' he has
some pleasure in your society, at all
events.'

'lam sure you would not think so to
look at him,' answered Harriet, dolefully.
She did not do Robert justice ; she did not
understand him well enough to know that
his undemonstrative affection as a husband
was a far deeper feeling than his
passion as a lover. ( Good-bye, Lina
dear, remember what I say, and don't get
married if you can help it.'

I have not the smallest intention of
doing so at present, and I never had a
married friend yet who did not tell me
that I was much better off as I am.
Marriage always seems a greater gain for
men than it does for women. Well, Harriet,
you may be sure I shall come and see
you in your own house as soon as I possibly
can, and, meantime, do try to find
something to do ; you would be ever so

much happier. Why don't you read
more ?'

Robert can't bear to see me reading 
that is, reading novels ;' and Harriet reddened
as she remembered the cremation of
her 'yellow-back.'

1 Well, surely in all that splendid library
at Tavistock you can find something better
to read than novels. Life would seem
quite different to you if you cared for real
literature ;' and Lina, with her youthful
vigour of intellect, could not realise the
shallowness of her sister's mind.

But, Lina, I should never be able to
go on reading all kinds of dry things 
it's all very well for you who are going to
be a governess, but I have no object in
life to read for.'

1 One can never tell what may happen,'

answered Lina, smiling and colouring a
little. ' I would not be too sure, if I were
you, Harriet, that all interests in life were
over for yon, and that you might not find
some day that a little book-knowledge
was as useful to you as to a High Schoolmistress.'


The sisters took a very affectionate
farewell of each other, with hopes on each
side of meeting more frequently. Harriet
was delighted to renew one of the
pleasantness parts of her old life, her talks
with her sister, and Lina felt a deep
compassion for the luckless woman who
seemed unable to make the best of either
single or married life.

4 But it is always the way thought
Lina, ' the women who are unhappy as old
maids, would be just as unhappy in

aol. in. c

married life, only in a different sort of
way.'

The following day, Harriet went to
Tavistock. It was a bright winter afternoon.
The Tavy flashed in the sun, as it
rushed beneath the grey stone bridge,
and the mouldering walls of the old
abbey, and past the riverside walks shaded
by great elm-trees. Tavistock, with its
lofty church tower rising above cedar-trees,
its remains of monastic buildings, and its
noble modern library and Town-hall in
harmony with them, has a stately, old-world
air, as of a very aristocrat amongst country
towns.

As Harriet crossed the bridge, she saw
coming towards her the two Miss Burton,
old acquaintances of hers at Tavistock.
Time was when Harriet dreamt that as a

married woman she should excite the envy
of all her spinster friends, and she should
look down upon them, with a good-natured
compassion, from her lofty eminence. But
the past four months had taught her many
lessons.

She coloured vividly, and began to
quicken her steps : she expected to receive
another cut direct ; but Clara and Fanny
Burton, who were good-humoured, empty-headed
girls, pounced upon her with
effusion. Perhaps they felt like the old
maids of * Cranford :' ' Actually some one
we know has got married ! It is coming
very near !'

'My dear Harriet, how awfully glad weare
to see you !' (The two sisters always
talked at once.) ' We were awfully amazed 
you never sent us wedding cake, awfully

c2

shabby of you. Who were your bridesmaids?
Why didn't you write aud tellus?
We had not even heard that you
were engaged. We are longing to see
your husband. We don't know your name,
or where you are living  or anything about
you. Isn't it too awfully absurd?'

Harriet  crimsoning with embarrassment,
and with pleasure also, at meeting a
kind welcome after so many rebuffs  told
her friends as much about herself, her home,
and her husband as was agreeable to tell.
Then the two sisters, gabbling and giggling
till they were out of breath, turned, and
walked up the street with Mrs. Robert
Wendron.

Harriet, you must come and stay with
us next week. Papa has promised to take
us to the Plymouth Theatre one night,

there is the most awfully jolly play on
there. What is the name ? " Colleen
Bawn,"  and if you will go we can take
a box. Do come, Harriet  you must /'

Oh, dear ! how awfully lovely it would
be !' cried Harriet, with a deep-drawn sigh,
but I am afraid I can't. Robert  my husband
 would never let me go to the
theatre.'

The two sisters gave a little scream.

4 Not let you ! who ever heard of such a
thing ! Why, what is the good of being
married, if you can't do just as you like?'

'I don't know, I am sure,' replied
Harriet, dolefully, ' I don't think being
married is a bit like what you suppose it
is.' It was a prosaic awakening from all
her past visions of impressing her unmarried
friends with her matron dignity.

Why,' said one of the sisters, after an
awestruck silence, ' you went to the theatre
sometimes before you were married. Mr.
Marsden didn't mind, though he is a
clergyman.'

Yes, and I used to go to parties sometimes,
and I read as many novels as ever I
liked Harriet had descended a further
step on her dismal way. ' Robert, you
are worse than papa she was ready to say.

Well, we shall not take "No" for an
answer  you will have to go with us somehow.
Papa won't take a box if you don't ;
we have asked several people to join us
already  and they have all declined,' said
Fanny Burton, naively.

Harriet Wendron went home that afternoon
with her head full of her hoped-for
visit to the Plymouth Theatre. She was

as ready to plot and scheme to keep her
husband in the dark, as she had been to
keep from her father all knowledge of lieu
intended marriage. It was not that
Harriet was naturally untruthful, but in
her bringing-up at home she had been
allowed no independence, and a life without
freedom always develops certain faults.
Her first step was to coax Robert into
consenting to her visit to the Burton.
He grumbled a good deal at first.

1 Why in the world do you want to go
gallivanting about like that when we have
not been married four months? Why can't
you be content to stop with your husband?
Mother never goes away from home from
one year's end to another, and never
wants to.'

Robert,' pleaded his wife, 'it is almost

the first thing I have asked you since we
Lave been married. The Burtonss are
awfully nice girls, they seemed so pleased
to see me to-day. It is hard I should not
have any friends. My own sisters even
can't come to see me ; I have given up
everybody for you 3 Robert ;' and genuine
tears came into Harriet's eyes, that were
called up by the loneliness of her situation.

Robert was touched at once.

i There, never mind, my dear, you shall
go and see } r our friends. I know you
have given up a lot for me, Harriet he
said, with unwonted gentleness, 'and all
your own people have turned against you ;
but never mind, my dear, they will come
round again some day.'

Amidst her joy at the way being thus
made smooth for her, Harriet felt a sudden
pang of conscience.

What would he say if he knew I was
going to the theatre ? I have half a mind
to give it up. But no, I won't, it is impossible
he should ever find it out. Besides,
there is no real harm in going to the
theatre ; and, if I do deceive Robert, it is
his own fault for being a Dissenter, and
thinking everything wicked.'

CHAPTER II.

THE STORM BREAKS.

Harriet Wendron came home from her
visit to the Burtonss one evening as the
early dusk was falling. Her brief holiday,
her short spell of amusement was over,
and she was returning to the routine of
her life at Radford Farm. In its quiet
monotony it seemed like the order of
nature itself, which proceeds undisturbed,
knowing only the changes of day and

night, summer and winter, seed-time and
harvest. She had enjoyed herself with all
the keenness of one who had never had
enough amusement in her youth to make
her blase'e; she had spent a delightful day
at Plymouth with her friends, shopping,
listening to the military band on the Hoe,
and then the climax of delight, the theatre
in the evening  altogether her visit to the
Burtonss would have been unmixed pleasure
if it had not been for the thought of
Eobert.

He had been quite lover-like again,
when they had parted for the first time
since their marriage, the morning she went
to her friends' house at Tavistock. He
had walked down to St. Stephen's station
with her carrying her black leather
bag himself, he had taken her ticket,

he had seen her into the railway-carriage,
saying,

Good-bye, my dear, come back again
on Thursday, I can't spare you a minute
longer, the house will seem quite wisht
without you.'

She remembered Robert as she had last
seen him, standing on the railway platform
 how tall and stalwart and handsome
he had looked in his brown tweed
suit and leathern gaiters  how kind and
half-regretful his parting smile had been ;
and she thought with a remorseful tenderness
that she had spoken of him a little
slightingly of late.

I almost wish I had nob o-one to the
theatre,' she said to herself, now that the
fun was over, and she began to feel that
perfect ease of mind was preferable ; on

that principle of wishing 'to have one's
cake and eat it too,' which so often
governs us. ' "Well, he will never know
anything about it, and I will never do it
again  at least without telling him. Dear
old Robert, we seem to have been parted
quite an age. It is just tea-time, so I
suppose he will soon be home. I think
he might have met me at the station, but I
suppose he is busy about something or
other on that tiresome farm of his.'

Harriet's spirits rose a little as she
entered the farmyard. The long low
house, with the ruddy firelight flickering
through the casement windows, looked so
cheery and comfortable in the February
twilight. After all, it was pleasant to
have a home of her own, even though it
was a very homely one ; and her heart

beat a little more quickly at the thought
that in another minute her husband might
greet her with a roughly tender caress.

Harriet went into the parlour, no one
was there. The white damask cloth was
on the table, the tea-things glistened in
the firelight, the bright copper kettle sang,
everything apparently awaited the master
and mistress. Harriet took off her hat
and cloak and threw them on a chair. She
would have tea before she went upstairs,
but where were Robert and his mother?
The house seemed strangely empty. Presently
the maid-servant entered with some
hot toast, and started as she saw Harriet
standing in the dusk.

1 Light the lamp, please,' said Harriet.
1 Is everybody out ?'

'Master isn't come in yet, and missus

is upstairs in her bed with a bad cold or
something. I have took her up her
tea.'

Harriet, feeling depressed by the silence
and solitude after the noisy, harum-scarum
household of the Burtonss, began to make
the tea. To be sure the kettle did not
boil, but she had never learnt the true
symptoms of a boiling kettle. And then,
imagining that leaving the tea to stand
for a lengthened period was the way to
produce good tea, she lounged in the armchair
by the fire, and presently was lost in
meditation.

How delightful it would be, if she and
Eobert could leave this dull country place,
and go to live at Plymouth.

Oh, the delights of a seaport garrison
town !' sighed Harriet, delights which she

had enjoyed only by brief snatches aud at
long intervals. ; Oh, the military bands
aud the red-coats, the boating in the
Sound, the picnics at Mount Edgecombe,
the dances, and the amateur theatricals !'
She did not want to give up Robert
certainly  but why, oh, why had he not
gone into the army, instead of being a
matter-of-fact Methodist farmer ?

In the drowsy warmth and comfort
Harriet had almost fallen asleep, when she
was startled by the abrupt opening of the
house door. She heard Robert's heavy
footsteps ; then came sudden silence  dead
silence. Some undefinable feeling of
alarm made her raise herself and look
towards the door.

Robert was standing at tho threshold of
the parlour, apparently looking at her, but

there was not light enough for her to see
his face.

1 Robert, is that you ?' she cried. ' What
is the matter  why don't you speak ?'

Then, as if the sound of his wife's
voice had loosened something which was
binding him fast and almost choking him,
he came forward with quick strides into
the room.

1 Where were you last night?' he demanded,
in a terrible voice.

Harriet sprang to her feet, feeling as a
criminal does when the policeman's hand
is laid upon his shoulder.

Don't answer me  don't tell me a lie !
J know where you were, you were at the
Plymouth theatre V

1 If I was  where's the harm ?' she gasped.
' I went with old Mr. Burton and the

VOL. III. D

girls.' Harriet clutched hold of the arms
of her chair to support herself. Robert's
face as he stood glaring at her, Robert's
voice hoarse with passion, made her feel
ready to faint.

4 Harm ! you ask me where's the harm ?
The theatre  why, it's the very gateway of
hell !'

4 It isn't  it wasn't  it was only the
Colleen Bawn, v ' she stammered, in her
utter confusion.

1 Hold your tongue, I tell you! I say you've
brought disgrace upon me, you've made
me a scandal to the whole connection ! Mr.
Northmore was at Plymouth yesterday ; he
saw you coming out of the theatre, you and
your precious friends, at eleven o'clock last
night ! He has been here to-day to call
me to account, wanted to know if 'twas

with my knowledge and approval, mine!
And I a class-leader, a Sunday schoolteacher
!' and here Robert fairly choked
with rage.

If Harriet had been a woman of spirit,
if she had faced Robert unflinchingly, and
demanded what right had Mr. Northmore
or any other man  be he minister or priest
to interfere between her and her husband,
Robert would very soon have sobered
down. But her abject terror, her shrinking
away from him, inflamed his passion
almost to madness.

He turned away from her for a minute
muttering to himself; then he came
up to her again, as if returning to the
charge.

But, after all, it isn't the theatre I mind
so much as your taking me iu, Harriet!

d2

You came coaxing and wheedling me to let
you stop a day or two with your friends
in Tavistock  they had been civil and
pleasant to you, you said, when all the
others had turned against you, and I could
not bear to think of your losing every
acquaintance you had, on account of your
marrying me; and so I let you go, like the
fool I was, little thinking what you were
up to, and where you were going to, on
the sly. You may think you can treat
me as you like because I am only a plain
hard-working farmer instead of being a
gentleman  but you will find yourself
preciously mistaken, let me tell you !
Do you remember w r hat I said the very
first night as I brought you home to my
house, that if ever you tried to deceive me
I'd make you repent it !' and here Robert

clenched his fist and shook it in Harriet's
face.

It was only an unmeaning gesture ; he
had no more idea of striking his wife than
he had of striking his mother. But a horrible
confused vision of the wife-murderers
and wife-torturers of whom she had so
often read in the newspapers, passed before
Harriet's eyes.

You are a hundred times worse than
papa !' came her piteous, sobbing cry, as
she shuddered back against the wall.

Then go back to him ! Go back to your
parson father and your young lady sisters ;
you are not fit to be the wife of an honest
working man !'

His wife's higher social position, all that
seemed in her to be superior refinement,
cultivation, charm  which was a constant

attraction to him in his happier moments,
meant now only that she looked down upon
him, deceived him, tried' to make a tool of
him.

At that instant, the face of the maidservant,
scared out of its usual stolidity,
appeared at the open doorway. It inspired
Harriet with just enough courage to try to
escape. She made a dash across the room,
nearly upsetting the servant in her flight,
she rushed upstairs to her bed-room, banged
the door, and locked it.

In about half-an-hour's time, she began
to recover from the intense terror, which
had been like a fainting fit in its paralysing
and stupefying effects upon her. The
first idea that occurred to her was that
she was not safe where she was at present.
Robert would come upstairs by-aud-by,

and if she barricaded the door of his own
room against him, he would be certain to
break it down. Where should she go for
protection ? She dared not appeal to old
Mrs. Wendron, she would be certain to side
with her minister and her son, and would not
dare to show Harriet any mercy even if she
felt inclined to do so. The sight of the
black leather bag which she had taken
with her to Tavistock, which a porter had
brought from St. Stephen's station on her
return home, and which she had not yet
unpacked  this black leather bag suggested
several ideas to her mince. In the first
place, she would seek shelter in another
room, and she would take the bao- with her :
it contained all that she wanted for the
night.

So she rose, and stiff and shivering, as

if suffering from bodily illness, she cautiously
unlocked the door, and with the bag
in one hand, and a lighted candle in the
other, she crept out of her bed-room. Fora
moment or two she stood listening in
the passage. All was silent, not a sound
betokened her husband's presence in the
house. A vivid recollection rose before
her of the last time she had thus stood listening,
hardly daring to breathe, in deadly
terror of being seen or heard  it was the
morning of her wedding-day.

She went stealthily along the passage,
until she came to the one spare bed-room
of the house ; she hurried in, and locked
the door behind her. Then, with one long
breath of relief, she set down her candlestick
and the bag, and threw herself into
an old-fashioned chintz-covered arm-chair.

The room felt damp and chilly, and smelt
musty from being long shut up; the furniture
was, most of it, swathed in brown
holland ; there were no sheets on the bed.
Still Harriet was thankful even for this
dreary and inhospitable shelter. She
wanted to rest, to collect her senses ; her
nerves were as shaken as if she had been
in a railway accident.

The chief idea which possessed her was
that of escape at the first opportunity, she
believed that her life was not safe if she
remained under the same roof as her husband.
His white, menacing face haunted
her like a ghastly dream ; the remembrance
of his furious words made her
wince as though they had been cuts from
a whip. Yes, get away from Robert she
must, but where should she go ? It was a

mockery to tell her to go back to her old
home, her father would shut the vicarage
door in her face. The Burtonss  no, they
were pleasant and hospitable, but her
friendship was not intimate enough to
enable her to endure the humiliation of
asking them to shelter her from her husband.
Besides, Tavistock was not sufficiently
far away to render it a place of
safety.

'I have not a refuge in the whole world
she said ; ' not a friend to protect me from
this dreadful man !'

There suddenly flashed into her mind,
how, long ago, Cecilia Tremayne  her
Serene Highness, as Clive used to call
her,  had once burst forth into passionate
wrath over something she had read in the
newspaper  one of those constantly recurring

stories of a man's beating, kicking,,
or burning bis wife to death. Cecilia
would help her and protect her, and hide
her away from Robert  the thought came
like an inspiration, and, by the merest
chance, she knew Cecilia's present address.
Penzance was far enough away to render
it a sure refuge, yet not so far but that
she could reach it by a few hours' railway
travelling. Harriet had a five-pound note
in her purse ; that would not only pay her
fare, but her board and lodging for a week
or two.

Cecilia would advise her what to do.
Cecilia would not have the smallest
difficulty in obtaining for her some easy
and lady-like employment, by which she
could maintain herself for the future.
Cecilia was so wise, so sensible, so strong,

and now that Harriet bad need of her
help, she did not call her, as she used todo,
strong-minded. The very thought of
Cecilia seemed to give the poor wife
courage.

1 Cecilia will stand by me,' she said to
herself ; ' Cecilia will see that I am not
reviled and ill-treated.'

By-and-by there came heavy footsteps
up the stairs. Harriet listened, her heart
throbbing painfully fast; she heard Robert
enter their room, then he came along the
passage to her hiding-place. The handle
of the door was tried, the lock was fast ;
then came aloud knocking.

Harriet, are you there ?'

She made no answer, but stood speechless
and motionless in the middle of the
room.

Harriet, answer me, or I will break the
door open.'

But the voice was more eager than
threatening.

'Yes, I am here,' came her faint rephf.

There was a moment's silence  then
there was something a little embarrassed,
not to say sheepish, in Robert's tone.

Here's your supper, you haven't had
any.'

Silence again, no answer from Harriet ;
then impatiently from Robert,

'Aren't you going to open the door?'

1 No, I am not,' Harriet plucked up
courage to reply,

1 Do you mean to stay there all night
then ?' in a louder tone.

Yes, I do.'

8 Very well, stay there.'

A tray was banged down ou the floor
of the passage, Robert strode off to his
room, shut the door, and locked it with
violence.

'There, he is gone, and I am safe!
Thank Heaven, I am safe ! I will get
out of the house and down to the railway-station
before he is up tomorrow morning.
I have everything I shall want here in
this bag. But I shall have to take it to the
train myself now ; Robert won't carry it
for me this time, as he did the other
day.'

Then, suddenly, with an entire revulsion
of feeling, Harriet burst into a
passion of tears.

1 Oh, Robert, I did love you so much
once  I did love you !'

The memory of their first married days

that happy week at Plymouth, when
Robert was to her the most devoted and
fascinating of bridegrooms  was. an unbearable
contrast to the present moment ;
the locked doors between them typifying
their life-long separation, and the death of
love and confidence and mutual respect.

CHAPTER III.

ROBERT REPENTS.

Robert Wendron slept the sleep of the
just that night. Nevertheless, he awoke
next morning with some of the sensations
of a man who  not being a hardened
drunkard  has been intoxicated the night
before. He felt uneasy, ashamed, and
remorseful; as he dressed himself he tried
to recall what had happened, but could
remember nothing beyond his own feeling
of intense irritation, which had driven him

like a goad, but whither he hardly knew 
and an uncomfortable vision of his wife's
white and terrified face.

I did perfectly right to be angry with
her ;' so he tried to reassure himself.
But I should uncommonly like to know
what it was I said. I don't wish to be
harsh with her. I know the sort of
bringing-up she has had.'

Still the doubt would rankle in his
mind, ' Can I ever trust her again ?' It
was the second heavy blow to his confidence
in her. Then came a passionate
outburst of grief :

How could you do it, Harriet ? how-could
you deceive your husband for the
sake of a paltry bit of worldly pleasure ?'

As soon as he was dressed, he thought
he would go and knock at the door of the

VOL. III. e

spare-root, with a civil inquiry how Harriet
was that morning, and whether she
would like her breakfast upstairs. But,
behold, the door stood wide open, revealing
the empty and somewhat disordered room.
She has got up early, and gone downstairs
already thought he, ' in order to
please me.'

He entered the parlour with a smile on
his face, and a slight touch of embarrassment
 there was nobody there but the
housemaid, laying the breakfast things.

Where's your young mistress ?' he
demanded, with a sudden change of
countenance.

Law, sir, I don't know,' the servant
answered, with a certain satisfaction.
(' Serve master right for getting into one
of his tantrums,' she thought.) 'Missus

ain't at home, anyway ; she was up and
out of the house before daylight '

Robert stood pale and speechless, in the
clutch of a great terror. He had driven
Harriet to desperation  she had gone mad
she had destroyed herself. The next
moment he recovered his senses, with some
scorn for his own foolish fancy. Dismissing
it from his mind, as being unworthy to be
considered for one moment by a reasonable
man, he sat down to his breakfast, with a
dogged, lowering face.

1 1 told her to go back to her father  I
do remember saying that last night  and
she has taken me at my word, that's all.
Well, as soon as ever I have had breakfast,
I will go to the parsonage after her, and
bring her back again. She may think she
is going to show me up to her family, bute

2

all I can say is, she will look the most
foolish of the two, before this morning is
over.'

Twenty minutes afterwards, Robert was
walking up the garden of St. Stephen's
Vicarage, with quick, swinging strides.
He gave a loud peal at the bell.

'Is Mrs. Wendron here?' be demanded
of the servant who opened the door.

'I don't know any such person,' she
answered insolently, though she knew well
enough who asked the question.

4 Then go and tell Mr. Marsden that
I  Robert Wendron  wish to speak to
him.'

I don't think he will see you, the family
is just going to breakfast.'

 Take that message to your master, or
I'll deliver it myself.'

Robert, as he spoke, came two steps
forward into the hall. There he stood, looking
so tall and commanding, that  albeit
he wore his usual rough tweed suit and
leather gaiters  the servant obeyed him
as if he had been, what she considered, a
gentleman.

The dining-room door was w T ide open,
and Robert had a glimpse of a white cloth
and breakfast things upon the table, but
the room was apparently empty, and
the maid knocked at the door of the
study.

There's some one wants to see you, if
you t please, sir ; and he won't take no denial,
though I told him you was just going to
breakfast.'

Mr. Marsden was ready at any hour of
the day or night to be at the service of any

human being who needed him in his professional
capacity. He came out of his study
without a moment's delay, never doubting
that some sick or dying parishioner claimed
thevicar  then he stopped short, seeing who
stood before him. For one instant a look
of wrath and disgust swept over his face,
then he drew himself up and waited in
silence  his only expression a slight
surprise  until Robert should address him.

1 Mr. Marsden, I have reason to believe
that my wife is here, and I have come to
fetch her home again,' began the farmer,
eyeing the vicar with a stern and steady
gaze.

Your wife ?' Mr. Marsden just raised
his eyebrows, and answered in a drawling
tone. ' I really have to consider who your
wife is.'

1 You know who she is well enough, and
you know who I am.' Robert came a
little nearer, with a menacing look gathering
in his face. ' I ask you, sir, is my wife
in your house ?'

1 Pray don't excite yourself, my goodman.
I know nothing about your wife,
and I wish to know nothing. But I ask
you in return,' and Mr. Marsden's affected
drawl suddenly gave place to bitter irony,
while a gleam of hatred flashed out of his
cold eyes, ' I ask you, what has become of
my daughter Harriet ?'

Robert returned his scowl with interest,
but there was a deadly sinking at
his heart, and his voice began to tremble.

1 Will you declare to me, Mr. Marsden 
on your honour as a gentleman  that
Harriet is not here ?'

Certainly she is not here. And let me
tell you, Mr. Wendron, if she does presume
to come here at any future time, she will
find the door shut against her ! My
house is no place for her, or for you,
sir !'

Robert heard nothing but Mr. Marsden's
emphatic denial.

Where is she  my God, where is she?'
he muttered, his bronzed cheeks growing
pale, and a look of fear and anguish dimming
his eyes.

Apparently,' Mr. Marsden smiled
sarcastically, as he saw Robert's emotion,
apparently your wife has disgraced you
even more than my daughter disgraced
me. You are no doubt aware that, when a
woman elopes with her husband, she
generally ends by eloping from him.'

With his fist clenched and held close to
his side, as if he were ready to knock Mr.
Marsden down, Robert started forward.

If you insult your daughter, you shall
not insult my wife !'

Mr. Marsden only smiled. He, a priest
and gentleman, was not going to flinch
before a blustering, low-bred Dissenter,
even though the latter might have twice
his strength.

You call her your wife, 5 he said, calmly,
' but I do not admit that the ceremony
you and she went through in a schismatic
meeting-house constitutes her your wife,
morally ; however much it may do so,
legally.'

Robert fell back speechless, confounded
as by a dreadful revelation. He stared at
the vicar, then

i Good God V lie cried, in a choking
voice, ' what a father, what a home my
poor girl has had ! She came to me for
shelter  and I  T have driven her away
from me !'

And, like a man who has had a mortal
blow, he turned and went out of the vicarage
without another word.

Mr. Marsclen smiled grimly to himself ;
then he went into the dining-room, and
rang the bell for prayers.

In the Methodist connection to which he
belonged Robert Wendron was supposed
to have been 'converted' long ago, almost
as a matter of course, considering his
bringing-up by a religious father and
mother. That is to say, as a boy in his
teens, he had gone through a ceremony,
akin, iu its meaning, to the rite of conformation

in the English Church, and ever
since he had been a regular attendant at
the chapel services, at the class-meetings,
and the Sunday school, and, in short, had
made a regular ' profession of religion '
(with occasional backsliding in the matter
of attending, as a spectator, the Tavistock
steeple-chases). Religion had been the one
reining and spiritualizing influence of his
life ; a life which owed no softening touch
to literature or art.

But from the moment he stood in the
hall of St. Stephen's Vicarage that morning,
a perfect revolution took place in
Robert Wendron. He in reality experienced
the beginnings of that ' change
of heart ' which he had read about in
religious biographies, and, as is often the
case with men of his temperament, the

change was sudden, violent, overwhelming.
He was by nature both just and kindly ;
he was honest and straightforward with
himself and with his fellow-creatures.
When, therefore, his eyes were opened to
see what he had done  that by his ungoverned
auger he had terrified the woman
he had vowed to love and protect, into the
desperate step of leaving her husband's
house, when her father's doors were shut
against her  when his eyes were opened,
his shame, his horror at himself were as
intense as his wrath with her had been.
He had gone to the vicarage that morning,
longing to punish Harriet in some way
for returning to her old home, and thus
revealing their quarrel to her family ; and
behold, all the punishment, all the humiliation
which had resulted from his visit to

Mr. Marsclen had fallen upon himself.

It was very wrong of Harriet to deceive
roe and go to the theatre ; but why didn't
I tell her of it kindly, instead of behaving
to her as I did ? What a hard-hearted,
cold-blooded brute that parson is, and she
said I was worse than he is, and so I was
so I was, for I love her, and she loved
me.'

Robert, you are worse than papa.'
Those words of Harriet's kept on sounding
in his ears, like a true and dreadful accusation.


Oh, my dear  my dear, if I can only
find you again, you shall see what a
different sort of man I will be !'

His last faint hope died out when he reentered
his house, and found it as silent
and empty as when he had left it. His

mother was keeping her bed, in all the
studying discomfort of a bad cold. No
one had informed her of Harriet's unexpected
absence that morning, and she supposed
that she had not yet returned from
visiting her friends at Tavistock. Mrs.
Wendron's only disquieting thought was
that there was no one downstairs but the
servant, to attend to Robert's ' little comforts.'


'Well,' said the old lady, sleepily, to herself,
' I saw to everything yesterday, and I
will get up and go to work again tomorrow
if I can, but to-day I must lie in bed, and
rest myself a bit.'

Robert sat by the parlour fire, his elbows
on his knees, his head bent down and resting
on his .hands. He was too much
stunned, not only by Harriet's flight, but

by his "own emotion, to be able to think
clearly, or to take any further steps to discover
her whereabouts; as for his daily
work on the farm, for the labourers who
needed his presence amongst them, and
who were wondering all the morning what
had become of the master  he never gave
them one moment's thought. The whole
world was dead to him, and he was left
alone with his own conscience  that conscience
which upon the whole he had
obeyed during his past life, and which
therefore had now not only vigour enough
to chastise him for his past sins, but
to coerce him into altering his course for
the future. He sat thus, brooding over
the fire for a whole hour, and it was the
darkest, and yet the most fruitful hour of
his whole life.

Out of hearts ploughed by contrition
spring flowers fairer than ever grew on the
hard ground of unbroken self-content.'

There came a gentle rap at the front
door, Robert did not hear it, but the servant
did ; in another minute the parlour
door opened, a slight, girlish figure
appeared on the threshold; Robert
sprang to his feet, hoping, wondering 
was this a messenger from Harriet ?

Liua Marsden came forward, slightly
embarrassed, yet with a sweet and winning
smile.

'Mr. Wendron, I am afraid you don't
know me, or will not welcome me. I am
Harriet's sister, Lina.'

Robert greeted her with both hands exuded,
in most brother-like fashion.

1 1 am uncommonly glad to see you, Miss

Lina. Do you know where Harriet
is?'

'No, I do not know for certain, but I
have an idea where she is ;' and Lina cordially
shook hands with him.

'Come and sit down by the fire then,
and tell me all about it.' Robert tried to
restrain his impatience, which prompted
him to grasp Lina by the arm and shake
the truth out of her. Had he not just
solemnly vowed that he would try for
the future to control himself better  especially
when these women-folk aggravated
him ?

I want to tell you first and Lina
coloured a little and looked down, 'that I
was must coming downstairs to breakfast
this morning, when you were talking to
my father, and I could not help hearing

VOL. III. F

what you both were saying. What has
made Harriet run away from you, Mr.
Wendron ?'

And then Lina raised her clear, frank
eyes, and looked searchingly into her
brother-in-law's face.

Again he had to put a strong restraint
upon himself.

6 Why does she bother me with questions
?' he wondered, ' instead of going
straight to the point ?' He did not see
that Lina was bound, in all sisterly loyalty,
not to betray Harriet's place of refuge 
until she knew what cause she had to need
one.

Well, to tell you the truth, Miss Lina ;'
and Robert braced himself up to take the
bitter, but no doubt salutary medicine of
confession ; c to tell you the truth, Harriet

and I had words last night. It was about
her going with those friends of hers, those
Burtonss, to the Plymouth theatre on the
sly. I said more than I ought to have
done, I know ; and I was carried away sofar
as to put my fist in her face, I own it ;
but I had no more intention of hitting her,
than I have you at this present moment.
I give you my word for that, Miss Lina,' he
said, emphatically.

c I should hope not, indeed !' and Lina
recoiled from him in horror.

Well, but I didn't do it, you see,'
Eobert replied, unconscious that the mere
supposition was degrading to him. ' Still,
I am afraid, poor girl, she thought I
meant it ; and so, when I came downstairs
this mornings was Gone. and I don't
know where to look for her'  and he

f2

broke off with a sort of groan of misery
and despair.

Lina eyed him again with her penetrating
glance.

I suppose, if you found Harriet, you
would make it all up, and be kind to
her ?'

'Ah, wouldn't I  my poor Harriet!' he
answered, with another deep-drawn sigh.
4 She should never have cause to leave me
again. I can promise you that.'

Then has it not occurred to you that
possibly she may have gone back to the
Burtonss ?'

To be sure now  I never thought of
that. I'll be bound she is there.' Robert
started to his feet and looked at his watch.
His energy returned to him directly he
saw a prospect of something to do. * I'll

take the next train to Tavistock, there is
one due in twenty minutes. Those Bur-tons
!' his face darkened, and he cursed
them in his heart, 'all this would never
have happened if it had not been for
them. I'll give them a piece of my mind,
as soon as ever I have got Harriet back
again.'

Heavens !' thought Lina, 'what a blustering,
blundering, hot-tempered creature
this is ! As soon as he gets out of one
hobble, he is ready to get into another.
All the same, I don't wonder at Harriet
falling in love with him. Mr. Wendron,'
and she smiled very prettily at him, ' I
wish yon would let me help you in this
matter. I am going to Tavistock myself
by the next train. I will call at the Bur-tons
and see if Harriet is there. If she

is, so much the better ; but if she is not,
no harm will be done. Otherwise  don't
you see the Burtonss will know, what they
need never be told, that Harriet has runaway
from you ? I promise to send you a
telegram from Tavistock immediately I
have seen them. If Harriet is not at the
Burtonss, I have a shrewd idea where she
may be found.'

Where ?' cried Robert, breathlessly.

If I tell,' answered Lina, looking very
bewitching, ' will you promise to let me goto
the Burtonss instead of you ?'

Of course I will.' Robert was like
wax in the hands of this clever, clear-headed
girl, whe was not in the least
afraid of him, however much her sister
might be.

Well, then, I think she has gone to

Miss Tremayne at Penzance ; we were
talking about her the other day, and Harriet
was wishing she could go to Penzance,
and, though she used to sneer at Cecilia
Tremayne sometimes, I know she has a
real respect and admiration for her at
heart. Cecilia has been the kindest friend
in the world to my brother Clive and me.
Here is her address ;' and she took a slip
of paper out of her pocket and handed it
to Robert. ' I am afraid I cannot go to
Penzance for you, I am running a fearful
risk by coming to your house even. My
father would heap all the anathemas of
the Church on my head if he knew it.'

1 1 don't believe your father would help
Harriet if she were dying !' Robert's eyes
flashed, but again came to him the remembrance
of Harriet's words  ' Robert, you

are worse than papa,'  and be was
dumb.

Good-bye, Mr. Wendron. I Lave only
just time to catch the train. You shall
have a telegram in less than half-an-hour.
Good-bye, all will be well, depend upon
it ;' and, with another hearty shake of
her brother-in-law's hand, Lina went
away.

Robert remained by the fire without
moving for nearly another half-hour,
pondering over the chances for and against
Harriet being at Tavistock. If she were
not, then he would set off bv the next
train on what was, to him, a long and
tedious journey to Penzance. He would
not telegraph first, no  Miss Tremayne
was a stranger to him, she might refuse
to reply. He would go himself to her

house, and, if necessary, would assert ibis
legal claim to his wife.

Then the time had come, he thought,
when he might reasonably expect the
telegram from Lina, and he went to the
door, took his felt hat from a peg, and
walked across the farmyard and along
the lane which led him to the highroad.


There he stood, looking down the hill
to the railway station.

He had not waited long, though it
seemed a weary time to him, when he
saw one of the railway porters coming
up the road. His heart beat fast, but
he tried to speak in an indifferent
tone.

Got a telegram for me ?'

Here you are, sir.'

The orange-coloured missive was placed
in bis hands, and he eagerly tore it
open.

From Lina Marsden, Tavistock,
To Mr. Wendron, Radford Farm, St. Stephens.

She is not here. She took ticket by first
train this morning to Plymouth, probably has
gone on to Penzance.'

The porter, lingering a little curiously 
never before in his knowledge had a telegram
been despatched to Radford Farm 
saw Mr. Wendron crush the pink paper in
his fingers, while his face became very
pale. Now that he knew that Harriet
was not in the immediate neighbourhood,
she seemed really and truly separated from
him. Having made a few inquiries about

trains from the porter, Robert returned to
the house.

About one o'clock that afternoon he was
at St. Stephen's railway station. No need
for him to enquire of the station-master
whether his wife had been there that
morning, thereby possibly arousing scandal
about her movements. Lina Marsclen had
thought of everything before he did, and
had found out everything without casting
suspicion on Harriet.

That is a good, clever, thoughtful girl,'
so he meditated in the railway carriage ;
and he was grateful to Lina, but at the
same time he could not help feeling himself
to be rather useless and dependent,
and altogether ' small ' in this emergency.

The five hours' journey to Penzance was
a period of severe discipline to Robert

Wend ron. He bought a newspaper at one
of the bookstalls, but he found it impossible
to give his attention to it. For the
greater part of the way he had the compartment
to himself, and he was left to the
sole companionship of his thoughts  and
bitter enough they were. He had made
up his mind that he should find Harriet at
Penzance, yet at times the doubt pierced
him like a sword  ' Supposing she is not
there  supposing I never find her again !'
and then, so unbearable was his pain
that once or twice, when he was alone, he
could not forbear crying out, with a sort
of wild prayer to heaven for mercy. For
five mortal hours this strong-willed, energetic,
masterful nature was forced to
endure solitary confinement, bodily inactivity,
helpless suspense, in presence of a

great terror. Robert Wendron was a
changed man, for the rest of his life,
through his sufferings of that day.

CHAPTER IV.

A Runaway WIFE

When Robert Wendron arrived at Penzance
that evening, be was thoroughly
weary from his railway journey, though he
could have been double the number of
hours in the saddle without fatigue. Still,
he did not allow himself the luxury of a
cab, but, with a little old-fashioned carpet -
bag in his hand, he walked alone: the
narrow streets, much jostled by the passers-by,

and somewhat bewildered by ibis
strange surroundings.

After much enquiring of his way, he
suddenly came out upon the esplanade,
and saw before him a vast expanse of
luminous sea. The full moon honor over
it, and there was a pathway of dazzling
lustre, which seemed even brighter than
the moon above. Sea and air were flooded
with molten silver, and, where the long
waves broke with rolling rhythm on the
sands, there was a flashing brilliance like
electric light. The air was soft and balmy,
as if this February night were midsummer ;
there came wafts of sweetness from the
hyacinths and narcissi in full bloom in the
gardens  flowers which, far away in London,
were just beginning to open in heated
conservatories. 

Marine Terrace, a long, low line of
houses, with little gardens in front, and
lights behind gaily striped blinds in some
of the windows, lay on Robert's right
hand. He walked slowly along the esplanade,
his footsteps seeming to echo in the
quiet air; he began to feel as though he
were walking in a dream. This darkly
radiant world lighted by the mystic splendour
of the moon, and the quivering glory
on the sea, was strange and wonderful to
him, and his courage sank as he lost his firm
foothold on familiar things. Might not
Harriet be altogether changed, even if he
found her again ?

He discovered Number 25 at last, and
his heart throbbed quickly as he pulled
the bell. Now in a few moments, after
the suspense of that interminable day, he
should know his fate.

I Does Miss Treinayne live here ?' be
asked of the youthful maid-servant who
opened the door. His voice sounded
hoarse and unnatural to himself, as if his
throat were parched with thirst.

'Yes, she does. What do you please
to want of her, sir ?' was the cautious
answer, dictated by the hour, a late one
for callers.

I I want to know if there is a lady stopping
here,'  and Robert gasped a little, he
could not bring himself to utter his wife's
name.

I'll go and see if Miss Tremayne will
speak to you.'

The girl looked at him as if she were
in a dilemma  she was afraid to ask a
strange, and, as she thought, rather
ferocious-looking man to come into the

VOL. III. G

bouse that hour of the evening, and
yet she was too civil to shut the door in
his face. Finally she compromised matters
by leaving the door ajar, and then
putting up a chain so as to prevent him
from entering.

She takes me for a thief or a wild
beast,' Robert muttered, savagely. He
was in that state of mental worry and
bodily fatigue when even a strong man
finds out that he has a nervous system.
He stood glaring into the lighted passage ;
he watched the servant disappear into a
ballroom, from whence for a few minutes
came a murmur of voices. Then when
the girl appeared again, instead of coming
to the door as he had hoped, she went
tearing up the narrow staircase. Robert
strained his ears for the sound of his wife's

voice, but nothing could be distinguish.
At last, when he had his hand upon the
bell to give a furious ring, the servant
came rushing headlong down the
stairs.

Please to walk in, sir; 7 and in a great
hurry she undid the chain, and threw
open the door of a cheerful little parlour.


The room was empty, but it had evidently
been lately occupied. A shaded
lamp burned on the table, books, needlework,
and an open newspaper lay beside
it.

The fire burned brightly, and through
the open window came the soft, flower-scented
air and the murmur of the sea.
Robert stood in the centre of the room,

grasping his hat tightly in both hands,

g2

much too eager to sit down ; then the
door opened and Miss Tremayne came
into the room.

Of course Robert recognised her at
once ; everybody knows everybody else by
sight in a lonely country neighbourhood.
But he had never spoken to her, and until
now, when they met many miles away
from their old and familiar haunts, he had
merely given her a careless glance in
passing.

And now, in his state of suspense and
agitation, with all his mental faculties
confused, and yet excited like a man's in a
fever, he stood amazed as the tall, fair
} T young woman, with the grave, sweet,
straightforward glance and some r hat
haughty grace, came towards him. He
had been proud of his wife because she

"was a lady, but here was some one as different
from Harriet as Harriet was from
his mother.

i Miss Tremayne,' he began, in an unusually
deferential manner, 'you don't
know me perhaps. I am Robert Wendron
of Radford Farm  you'll remember the
farm, I daresay. Will you kindly tell me
if you have seen my wife to-clay ? Her
sister thought it was likely she had come
here.'

Yes. Mrs. Wendron is here, in this
house.'

1 Ah  ' Robert drew a deep breath and
turned very pale. The relief, now it had
come at last, was so intense, it was almost
a shock to him.

Will you not sit down ?' Cecilia spoke
in a cold, courteous, deliberate tone, as if

Robert were an enemy with whom she had
to make terms.

Robert dropped mechanically into a
chair ; the next moment he sprang to his
feet again.

Where is my wife ? I will go to her at
once.'

1 Pardon me, she is quite unable to see
you to-night. She is thoroughly exhausted
and worn out, and, if she does not have
perfect rest for a day or two, I fear she
will be seriously ill.'

'If she is ill, all the more reason I
should go to her,' he burst out. Then,
suddenly becoming aware of the meaning
of Cecilia's cold and hostile bearing, he
went on. ' Don't you misunderstand me,
Miss Tremayne. I am not going to say
anything to vex her, poor girl.'

No, I hope not. But she must not be
excited, as she certainly would be, if she
even knew that you were here.'

"Won't you so much as tell her I am in
Penzance ?' Robert's eyes flashed fire.

I am sorry to say, Mr. Wendron, that,
for her own sake, I must refuse to tell her
to-night.'

 I have a legal right to see my wife !' he
exclaimed, grinding the heel of his boot
into the floor. Then he turned away
abruptly, and walked to the window. He
felt that he was once more becoming overwhelmed
by the passion which had brought
about all his sufferings of that da', and
resolutely he held his tongue and wrestled
with himself.

Cecilia, little knowing what was passing
in his mind, looked at him with cold scorn

and dislike. Harriet, weak-minded, terrified
wife, who bad thrown herself on her protection
to-day, appealed to Cecilia's strongest
instincts ; and she was ready to defend
her with all the energy she possessed.
But this big, broad-shouldered, bearded
man was to Cecilia the very embodiment
of everything she most abhorred  masculine
brute force, and that domestic slave-holding
which is upheld by Law and the
Church.

The estimate in which Miss Tremayne
held him had an unconscious' influence
over Robert, in his struggle with himself.
He realized that he must seem to her to be
playing an odious part  that, after having
by his violence frightened his wife out of
his house, he was now hunting her down
in the refuge she had found for herself.

His cheeks burned with mortification, and
he said, in a troubled tone,

It seems hard on a man to have come
all this way, and not to see her now I've
got here. But I have no right to complain,
I know that.'

Cecilia was surprised and touched by
Robert's submission.

1 1 promise you I will tell Harriet you
are here as soon as I prudently can
tomorrow morning. I have no doubt that
she will be much better when she has had
a good night's rest. Now, let me offer you
some supper after your long journey ;' and
she went towards the fireplace, and laid her
hand upon the bell.

1 Thank you, Miss Tremayne, I think
I had better be going. It's getting
late, and I must go and look up some

quiet inn, where I can stop the night

She did not press him to remain longer,
she was in too constant dread lest the wife
upstairs should recognise the husband's
voice below.

If she did,' thought Cecilia, ' Harriet is
just the sort of woman to go into a violent
hysterical fit.'

Cecilia gave Robert all the information
he wanted about an hotel to stay at, and
promised to send him a note the next
morning to tell him how Harriet was, and
when he might be allowed to see her.

Just as he was leaving the room, he
paused, looked Cecilia earnestly in the
face, and said, with a good deal of simple
dignity,

I must set Harriet back in some way,
Miss Tremayne. For a wife to leave her

husband for any length of time, is a thing
not to be thought of amongst Christian
people. But I want her to come back tome
of her own free will. Tell her, will
you please, Miss Tremayne? that all I
think about is being friends again. She
shall never hear another word from me
about what's past and gone.'

Cecilia felt more hopeful about the prospect
of a reconciliation between this
oddly-matched couple. Certainly the man
was more tolerable directly he laid aside
his masterful airs, and had the grace to
appear a little ashamed of himself. And it
was only reasonable to suppose that affection
rather than anger had led him to pursue
his runaway wife to Penzance.

Harriet was sitting in an arm-chair by
the fire in a little bed-room at the top of

the bouse, which fortunately for her, Mrs.
Bosustow was able to place at her disposal.
She looked up with a timid grateful
smile as Cecilia entered. On her
way that day to throw herself on Cecilia's
protection, and to avail herself of Cecilia's
strength and cleverness, in which she
sincerely believed  she had nevertheless
imagined that she should be able to
keep up her dignity as a married woman ;
for Miss Tremayne, however youthful she
might still look, was certainly becoming an
old maid. Bub by the time the wife had
told the whole story of her quarrel with
her husband  and Harriet was frank to
the verge of indiscretion  her dignity
departed, and she became conscious that
she was making a very poor figure
indeed.

She had confessed not only that her husband
had stormed at her, had shaken his
fist in her face  the cause of his rage had
to be told also. And, when Harriet had
revealed her little scheme of going to the
Plymouth theatre without his knowledge,
Cecilia's involuntary start of surprise and
disgust had opened Harriet's eyes in a
way that Robert's angry words would never
have done.

'My dear Mrs. "Wenclron/ said Mrs.
Tremayne, who sat by her side, knitting
stockings, ' I guess how you felt when
you told us. You felt real mean  
one always does when Cecilia looks like
that.'

Harriet was much attracted by Mrs.
Tremayne  the gentle, motherly, rather
gushing woman.

It is awfully odd,' thought the former,
that Cecilia's mother should suddenly turnup
like this. Nobody knew before that
she had a mother living. And she is
rather peculiar too  foreign, or at least
American, I suppose ; and she is not quite
a lady somehow, nice as she is. She is
more like a kind, good-natured, well-dressed
old nurse or housekeeper.'

And a very tender nurse Harriet found
her. Mrs. Tremayne was warmly interested
in the young wife's story. It seemed, in
some respects, like the counterpart of her
own.

Not much good ever comes from marrying
away from your own folk,' thought
Mrs. Tremayne  f whether a woman
marries a gentleman far above her as I
did, or whether she goes down a step or

two for her husband, as this poor thing has
done.'

'Didn't I hear the bell ring, and a man's
voice in the house just now?' asked her
mother, as Cecilia entered.

Yes," she answered, indifferently, ' a
man came to see me about something. I'll
tell you all about it tomorrow, mother ;'
and she turned to Harriet, and asked her if
she felt a little more rested.

Some charity case, I guess,' murmured.
Mrs. Tremayne over her knitting. ' Always
missionaries and people like that
around.'

Are you a Methodist, Mrs. Tremayne ?'
asked. Harriet.

'Dear no  I belong to the Episcopal
Church, the Church of England as we call
it here.'

Oh, that is a good thing. Wo are so
awfully bothered about missionaries at
Radford Farm. Mrs. "Wendron, my husband's
mother, is so fond of them, keeps a
money-box with a slit in it for them, and
all that kind of tiling. Oh, you can't
think how trying it is to have to do with
Methodists. If it had not been for one of
their ministers  horrid old thing !  who
went and told Robert about my going to
the theatre, he would never have known
anything about it.'

1 But, Harriet,' said Cecilia, gently, 'Mr.
Wendron must have been told some day.
You would never have been happy as long
as you kept it secret from him, you know

Indeed, I don't know. I shall never be
happy again now, I know that ;' and Harriet
began to cry.

Yes, yes, my dear, you will,' and Mrs.
Trernayne tried to soothe her.

We must not talk any more, I think
said Cecilia. ' We had better let you goto
bed now, we are only tiring you.'

Oh, please don't go away, I can't bear to
be left alone  indeed, you are not tiring
me.' Harriet had so vivid a remembrance
of the misery and horror of last night that
she now dreaded solitude and darkness as
if she were a child. ' You know, 1 must
think about my future johann and how I am
going to support myself. I don't want to
be a governess, I am not like Lina, I should
hate teaching.'

Cecilia smiled a little archly.

Then, if I were you, I should try to
qualify myself for being a lady-housekeeper.'


VOL. III. h

Yes, I think I should like that.'

I am sure you would, if you were as
lucky as I have been,' put in Mrs. Tree


Then I would learn everything I could
about making bread and butter and clotted
cream and jam and pies and puddings,'
Cecilia went on. ' I would be ignorant of
nothing that would be useful in a household,
and I would understand all about
flowers, fruit, and vegetables, and even cows
and pigs.'

Harriet began to look interested. It
gave her a pleasant sense of importance to
hear her future plans talked over by her
friends ; it raised her spirits a little out of
the deep depression into which they had
sunk.

It sounds rather nice to be a lady-housekeeper,

much nicer than teaching tiresome
children, as Lina wants to do. I
think I should like to learn to do all those
things  cooking and so on. And do you
really think, Cecilia, I could get a comfortable
home as a housekeeper ?'

t I am pretty sure of it,' answered
Cecilia, trying not to laugh; 'I am pretty
sure you may have a very comfortable
home, if you will make up your mind to
live in the country and learn to do household
work, and not to expect very much
in the way of society and amusement. I
am afraid, if you wanted a town life, where
there was a good deal of fun and gaiety
going on, you would find it very difficult
to get employment of any kind that you
would like. You would have to work
much harder, and would have much less

n 2

kindness and consideration shown you,
than in the situation I am thinking
of.'

'But it is so dull living in the country;'
and Harriet's face fell again.

If you have plenty to do, and the
people you live with are fond of you,
you may come in time not to find it
dull. Now, I think I will bid you goodnight.'


Cecilia felt a little weary and impatient
with this slight nature, whose regrets
seemed like a mockery of her own. Intimes
gone by, she herself had often found
Morwell Vicarage dull enough, but at least
her cravings were for something very
different from the dances and theatres and
military bands which would have appeased
Harriet.

The only hope for her,' thought Cecilia,
*is that she may take up the work of her
household as an interest in life. Fortunately,
her husband seems a much more
reasonable man than I had expected from
her description of him. He has evidently
a strong affection for her, and I can only
hope she reciprocates it as much as he
deserves.'

The next morning, when Cecilia went
into Harriet's room, she was rather gratified
to find her, after enjoying a goodnight's
sleep, and a good breakfast, crying
heartily. Mrs. Tremayne, who was sitting
by her bed-side, found it impossible to
comfort her. Cecilia had not let her
mother into the secret of Mr. Wendron's
presence in the town ; and the burden of
Harriet's grief was,

I shall never  never be happy without
Eobert ! I dare not go back to him, I dare
not face him again, he has almost frightened
me to death as it is. But I don't
know how I shall live without him. I shall
never be happy again, never !'

1 You would not be afraid of him if he
were kind to you, Harriet?' Cecilia
thought the way was already well prepared
for the disclosure she had to make.
Supposing he were here now, begging
you to come back to him, and promising
never to say another word about the
past !'

Oh, but he never will forgive me. I
did deceive him about going to that
wretched theatre, you know, and I am as
sorry for it now as ever I can be, but he
will never forgive me, never !'

'Would you not believe him, if lie told
you himself that he forgave you ?'

'Yes, if he said so, I should believe him,
Robert always means what he says.'

'Well then, he has said so.'

Harriet raised her tear-stained face, all
amazed and incredulous. Cecilia smiled,
and took her hand.

'Mr. Wendron is here  in Penzance. I
saw him last evening. He said to me just
these words, and he asked me to repeat
them to you. All he wants is that you
and he should be friends again, and he
promises never to say another word about
the past.'

Harriet was almost speechless.

'Robert here  here now?' she gasped.

4 Yes, he is waiting at an hotel to know
what time he can come and see you this

morning. I assure you, Harriet, there is
no reason in the world why you should
fear meeting him. He appears to have
none but the very kindest thoughts of
you.'

Harriet turned so white that Mrs. Tree
thought she was going to faint,
and she brought her a glass of water in a
great hurry. While she was drinking it,
Mrs. Tremayne murmured, a little reproachfully,


4 Then that was Mr. AYendron who
called last night. Oh, Cecilia, you never
told me, and I thought it was only a
missionary !'

Ask him to come in an hours time,
please, Cecilia,' said Harriet. ' I will getup
and dress, and try to look as nice as
ever I can. Dear Robert ! aud did he

actually come all this long way to try to
find me, do you think ? And how did he
look, was he pleasant ? And wasn't he
really a bit angry with me for running
away from him ?'

1 No, I think he was angry only with
me for not allowing him to see you last
evening, and make it all up with you
without farther loss of time. Harriet,'
Cecilia spoke very earnestly now, * I believe
you have it almost entirely in your
own power to make your life a happy one
for the future.'

Harriet, flushing and palpitating with
hopes and fears, joyful at the thought of
seeing Robert again so soon, yet even now
somewhat frightened  surely he would not
let her off quite so easily as Cecilia
believed  Harriet sat in the Tremaynes'

little parlour, which they had vacated that
morning so that the husband and wife
might meet with as little embarrassment
as possible.

There came a ring at the front doorbell.
She started up and stood trembling ;
losing all control over herself, she was
about to rush out of the room, to hide
herself up-stairs, when the parlour door
opened, a tall, broad-shouldered, manly
figure appeared in the doorway, and then
almost before the servant had shut
the door again and had disappeared 
Harriet found herself clasped in two
powerful arms, and her face covered with
kisses.

The husband and wife had, each of
them, suffered so acutely during their
separation, that it was perfect bliss to

them now to bo together again, and they
had little need of words at first. But
presently Robert put his hands on Harriet's
shoulders, and, holding her a little
away from him, he looked down into
her face with a half stern, half tender
gaze.

4 How could you do it, Harriet? how
could you have the heart to go away and
leave your husband?'

I harriet sobbed like a child.

4 1 am very sorry, dear Robert; I will
never do it again !'

I am very sorry too, Harriet, for what
1 said to you the evening you came home
from Tavistock. You and I have, both of
us, something to forgive and forget. Look
here, do you remember one thing you said
to me, " Robert, you are worse than

papa"? I bave thought of it many a time
since.'

Oh, no, no ; you are not one bit like
papa!' said Harriet, lovingly.

1 Now, remember, the next time you
see me beginning to get nasty-tempered,
just say to me, "Robert, don't be like
papa !" and then stop my mouth with a
kiss  like this, do you see !'

1 I'll tell you what,' said Robert, presently,
as they were sitting comfortably before
the fire, ' to-day is Saturday  supposing
you come back with me to my hotel, and
we stop in Penzance over Sunday ; would
you like that? It seems a pretty sort of
place, and we'll have a little bit of a
honeymoon over again. It will be the
second time you and I have eloped together,
Harriet ;' and he laughed in high
glee.

Harriet was in an ecstacy.

I only wish we could stay here a month
or two, Robert.'

Ah, that would never do. I can't give
up my farm ; no, not even for you, my
dear ! Now, you had better go and get
your things on, and tell Miss Tremayne
you are coming along with me to the hotel.
I am sure she has been uncommonly good
to take you in, a regular vagabond as you
are. What was she going to do with you,
if I had not turned up ?'

1 I was going to learn to do all
sorts of household things. She thought
I could get a situation as a lady-housekeeper,'
replied Harriet, casting down her
eyes.

"Robert burst into loud laughter.

'Come along and be my lady-housekeeper

then ! I've got the very situation
waiting for you at Radford Farm !'

Harriet went out of the room demurely,
without replying.

CHAPTER V.

THE SECOND HONEYMOON.

On the following afternoon, this runaway
couple varied their second honeymoon by
having tea with the Tremaynes.

Afterwards, the elder lady coaxed
Robert into going with her to see a little
house and garden, which she and Cecilia
were going to take.

I should like to have your opinion ou
the bit of land, Mr. Wendron.'

She was glad to have a man to consult

about a matter of business  this, as some
writer says, l is in a woman's eyes the great
object of a man's existence.' So Robert,
who already was beginning to feel the
want of something to do, went off with
Mrs. Tremayne, and Cecilia and Harriet
seated themselves in the bow window overlooking
the sea.

It was a glorious February evening.
The sun was sinking in golden glory just
above the wooded heights to westward of
the town. A rosy light floated over the
eastern shores of the bay. St. Michael's
Mount, with its rocks, and castellated
towers, and purple-shadowed hollows, stood
out tenderly defined in the sun's last
rays. The calm sea shone like an opal, a
few ripples broke on the long stretch of
wet yellow sand, a few sails glowed pink

against the soft blue horizon; up and down
the esplanade the townspeople were pacing
this Sunday afternoon, the sound of voices
and footsteps came softly in at the open
window.

It is probable that a couple more highly
cultured than Robert and Harriet Waldron
would have found it intolerable to
meet the Tremaynes again so soon. To
some very refined and sensitive people, the
fact of their friends knowing all about
their quarrel  the wife's flight, the
husband's pursuit, and their final reconciliation
 would have been torture. But
Robert, who had been embarrassed when
the pack of cards fell out of his pocket at
chapel, and when the minister lectured him
afterwards, saw no cause for confusion
now. What was there to be ashamed of ?

vol. in. i

His wife and he had forgiven each other
and made it up, and were as happy as a
bride and bridegroom over again. No
doubt it was brave and honest of Robert
to feel like this, but possibly a gentleman
would not have been as comfortable in the
presence of the Tremaynes, as this ' plain,
hard-working farmer ' as he liked to call
himself. Class habits and traditions have
much to do with fine-drawn subtleties of
feeling.

Cecilia was glad that her mother had
taken Robert Wendron out of her sight.
She, who had been brought up by aristocratic
Reginald Tremayne  the one love
of whose life had been sensitive, chivalrous
Maurice 0' Donovan  found it a little difficult
to tolerate the society of this ordinary
well-to-do, middle-class Englishman, who

was redeemed from utter Philistinism only
by a certain fire and impetuosity which he
owed to his Cornish blood. Of course
Cecilia was the last woman in the world to
think less of a man because of the class to
which he belonged.

It is the class to which I, as my
mother's daughter, belong now,' she
thought, with au irrepressible pang.

But what Cecilia most disliked about
this young farmer was an air of domination,
as though all his life long he had
been considered a superior being, and had
taken the lead and management of everyone
about him.

This sort of self-conceit is what school
and university training knocks out of a
true gentleman. Both in his work and in
his play it comes as naturally to him toi

2

obey as to command,' thought Cecilia.
'Well, Harriet has found her master, as
they say ; and she is such a poor weak,
shallow-minded creature, though very good-hearted,
that no doubt she will probably
like him none the worse for ruling her.'

Cecilia began after the others had gone
out.

'Do you know, Harriet, I really meant
what I said last night, although I knew all
the time that Mr. Wenclron was here, and
that you would be certain to go home
again with him. I really meant what I
said  that if I were you, I would at once
set about learning how to make butter
and bread and clotted cream, and those
kind of things. You know you told me
yesterday how dull you found your life,
but that Mr. Wendron was perfectly happy

and contented with his hard work on the
farm. Now, don't you think you might
grow contented too, if you worked hard in
the house ? You became a farmer s wife
of your own free will, surely you would be
happier if you determined to live the life
of a farmer's wife?'

I should not at all dislike looking after
the dairy and the poultry ; at all events, I
would rather do that than sit in the house
all day with no one to talk to and nothing
to amuse me, but I don't think old Mrs.
"Wenclron would like me to interfere with
what she always considers her business.'

She must learn to like it, Harriet. It
is your right to be the mistress of your
husband's household, and to direct everything
that is to be done. Besides, you
must consider that Mrs. Wendron cannot

live for ever, and at her age she might be
laid aside by illness at any time. Then
what would become of you, and your
chance of being happy and respected in
your own home, if you knew nothing of
the occupations and the duties of the
mistress ? I cannot understand why
women do not look upon marriage as a
profession, to be carried on in a sensible
and business-like way, as any other profession
; to be taken as if a woman feels
herself suited for it, to be declined, if she
feels (as an increasing number of women
do feel) that she has no vocation for it.
Yes, if you will let me suggest it to
you  directly you go home ask Mrs. Wen-iron
to teach you everything about the
work of the house and the dairy and
so on.'

1 I think it is an awfully good idea of
yours,' replied Harriet, gratefully, ' and I
will certainly do all I can. But supposing
Robert objects?'

1 My dear Harriet, he will be delighted.
Did you ever know a man yet who w r as
not pleased if he thought his wife was
2foin to ere him something nice to eat?
I daresay the puddings and the butler and
the bread that you make at first will not
be nice at all ; but you must take care that
he does not eat them, and you can keep
your failures for the fowls' and the pigs'
dinners instead. And, that reminds me,
you might learn to rear poultry, and
amuse yourself with the chicken ; and
then you have a garden, I suppose?'

'Yes, but there are hardly any flowers
in it.'

4 There is a fine field for your energies
there is work for you summer and
winter !' cried Cecilia, becoming enthusiastic.
' Who can have nothing to do if
he or she has a garden ? Do, Harriet, try
to grow flowers ; you have no idea how
happy they will make you.'

But I know nothing about flowers. I
am afraid I am awfully ignorant,' answered
Harriet, dejectedly.

You will find some of the cottagers
who will teach you hosts of things, and
then there are plenty of cheap books and
magazines about gardening. I'll give you
all the help I can, and if there is anything
you want to know at any time, just
write to me, and I will try to find it out
for you.'

Cecilia was about to tell Harriet of her

own schemes of work, but she refrained.
The time they had together was very
short, and she felt that she must use
every moment in talking of Harriet's
affairs. All the happiness of her future
life depended upon the fresh start that
she and her husband made on their return
home.

I admire Mr. Wenclron very much in
many ways.' Cecilia forced herself to be
just to a man whom she knew to be
worthy of respect. ' I have often heard
his labourers and their wives speak of
him. They say he is a very strict master,
and shows his men little mercy if they
idle or get drunk ; but that he is never
unjust, and no one could be kinder than
he is, if they or their families are ill An
old man told me that one day '  Cecilia

smiled a little consciously, for the case
was something like Harriet's own,  ' one
day Mr. "Wendron was very angry with
him about something, and downright
swore at him  " and then the same evening
he came and asked my pardon, as humble
as ever could be," said the old man. " He
said he should not like to meet me at
chapel Sunday if he had not done it.
Ah, he is a real good Christian man, is
Farmer Wendron, if he be a bit hasty at
times." So you see. Harriet, you have to

'take the rough with the smooth," in

marrying a Methodist. You knew he was
one before you married him, and so you
must make up your mind to do without
going to the theatre, and a few trifles of
that sort. He thinks a good many little
things are wrong which you and I think

quite innocent  but after all, we can live
without them ; and we cannot live without
justice, and kindness, and compassion, and
a good many other qualities which Mr.
Wendron has.'

When the husband and wife arrived at
Radford Farm the evening of the following
day, they found old Mrs. Wendron sitting
by the parlour fire, wrapped in a large
plaid shawl, coughing, and looking pale
and querulous. Hitherto she had flattered
herself that her son's marriage had made
very little difference in the household.
She was still the mistress, Harriet was onljr
an ornamental figure, and Robert consulted
his mother's wishes quite as much ashe
did his wife's. Bat this sudden ' jaunt,'
as she called it, to Penzance  what did it
mean ? Robert had never done such a

thing before in his life, as to go off travelling
for a couple of days at an hour's
notice. She did not approve of it  it
savoured of the world and frivolous amusement.
This was all Harriet's influence ;
this came of marrying a Church parson's
daughter. And Mrs. Wendron sighed,
for the first time realizing the truth of
the old saying  'My son is my son till
he gets him a wife.'

Well,' she began, ' and where ever
have you two young people been?'

We have been to Penzance, mother, fora
breath of sea air ;' and here Robert was
guilty of the vulgarity of winking at his
wife.

'And what were you doing with yourselves
all day yesterday ?' and Mrs. Wendron
.put on the peculiar look of severity, which

the thought of Sunday always called up on
her face.

1 Well, in the morning we went to chapel,
then we had an uncommonly good dinner
at the hotel, and after that a walk on the
esplanade, and tea with Miss Tremayne and
her mother. That's about all, I think,
Harriet ?'

f And you could go about enjoying
yourselves like that and never thinking of
your duties? You arranged nothing
about your Sunday-school class, Robert;
and old George Taylor had to take your
boys for want of anyone better, and they
nearly wore the life out of him, he's that
dull and feeble, poor old man.'

Well, I can't bother about that now,
mother,' replied Robert, with a darkening
face. ' Let's have our tea, Harriet and I
are tired and hungry.'

Mrs. Wendron rather feebly began to
make the tea, while Harriet looked distressed,
knowing it was her own guilt which

7 O CD

had brought this lecture upon her husband.
Full of good resolutions, and anxious to
begin household work at once, she said,

Let me help you, Mrs. Wendron, you
don't seem well.'

Indeed I am not,' and the old lady
began to cough vigorously. ' I have been
very poorly for the last week, and I wonder
you liked to stay away from home so long
when I was upstairs and couldn't do anything.'


I am awfully sorry, I had no idea you
were ill

4 Didn't Robert tell you then  didn't be
tell you ? Oh, dear  dear, my son is beginning
to forget me in my old age

'Good Lord!' and Robert jumped up
in a state of exasperation. ' If I can't
have tea in peace here, I'll go and have it
in the barn ;' and he began to stride across
the room.

Harriet was in an agony  everything
was going to be spoilt the evening of their
second return home, just as her unlucky
letter had marred their first honeymoon.
And she and Robert had been so happy
together the last three days ! In desperation
she remembered the spell that Robert
had told her to use in an emergency like
this. She caught him by the arm as he
passed her to leave the room.

'Robert,' she whispered  'please don't
be like papa !'

Robert stood still, furious for one
moment ; the next, he burst out laughing.

1 Well done, my dear f and be bent down
and gave her a hearty kiss. ' You remembered
what I told you in the very nick of
time ! No, I wont be like the Reverend
Philip Marsden, if I know it !'

He re-seated himself at the tea-table,
paying no more attention to his mother's
grumbling, but chuckling to himself ashe
recalled his encounter with the vicar on
the morning of Harriet's flight.

He'll look rather blue if he sees my
wife and me walking comfortably together
to chapel next Sunday !'

Harriet found plenty of opportunities
for assuming the reins of domestic management.
Mrs. Wendron, senior, continued
ailing for several weeks that spring, spending
much time in her bed-room. Harriet
had to look after the butter and the bread-making,

to study cookery books instead of
novels, and to make herself acquainted
with the poultry. The old lady's vanity
was gratified by her daughter-in-law
having continually to come to her for
instruction in household work, and by many
references to her superior knowledge.
Eobert put up good-humouredly with
Harriet's well-meaning blunders, and, as
Cecilia had advised, the fowls and the pigs
profited by the spoilt puddings.

Of course neither Robert's fiery and
overbearing temper, nor Harriet's indolence
and love of pleasure were ever
entirely eradicated ; but the will and the
conscience of each of them had been
aroused during the dark hours of their
separation, and husband and wife had
made a fresh and a happy beginning the

VOL. III. K

second time of their coming home.
Before that year was out, Harriet had
asserted a new claim to be considered
mistress of the household, and neither old
Mrs. Wendron nor anyone else ever again
disputed her sovereignty.

CHAPTER VL

HArPY EVER AFTER.

Lina Marsden was sitting alone in the
drawing-room at St. Stephen's Vicarage.
An open letter was spread on the table
before her, and one or two quiet tears
dropped on the paper as she read it.
Clive came into the room, and she quickly
wiped away her tears with her handkerchief,
but the boy's keen eyes discovered
that something was grieving his favourite
sister.

k2

4 What is the matter, Lin a Y he asked.

Oh, nothing  well, I suppose I had
better tell you. I have had a letter by
this morning's post from the Council of
the Girl's High School Company. They
offered me a post as assistant mistress
with a salary of 70 a year, at the
High School at Penzance. Think of that,
Clive ! Was there ever such a chance,
and at Penzance too, of all places in the
world, where I could be near Cecilia Tree
Is it not enough to break one's
heart !'

c But what is the matter, Lina ? Why
can't you accept the offer if you want to ?
asked Clive, eagerly.  It would be
awfully jolly being in the same place
with Cecilia.'

Don't you see the absolute hopelessness

of it ? Father and mother would never
give their consent; no, not if the salary
was three times as much; and you know
I shall not be one-and-twenty until the
first week in May, and of course they
can't wait for me and keep the post open
when there must be lots of other girls to
take it. You see, they want somebody at
once ; the junior assistant mistress has
gone home seriously ill. Oh, dear ! life is
hard ; but it's no use thinking any more
about it. After all, Clive, you are much
worse off than I am ; for if I wait patiently,
holding the certificate I do, something
else is sure to turn up for me.'

Clive shrugged his shoulders.

6 Yes, it is a clear case of hope deferred
for me. I wonder what has become of
Mr. Tremayne. I have seen and heard

nothing of him for a fortnight. Ten to
one he has never thought about ray
drawings again. I don't know that I ever
seriously believed that he could do anything
to help me. But one catches at a
straw when one is desperate. And it is
dreary work, Lina, seeing one's best years
go by. and being as much adrift as regard?
one's future as ever.'

Clive walked to the window, and stood
looking out into a grey February day, and
there was a forlorn silence between the
brother and sister.

When one is young, one is apt to grow
desperate in one's eagerness, and to think
that help must come speedily, if it is to be
any help at all. The young feel much as
the very old do ; that their days are passing
quickly, that they have but few of

them, and thafc they must needs make the
very best they can of them while they
last. It is in the spring as it is in the
late autumn  every day works rapid
changes, and has a special importance in
its work of growth or of decay. But in
the dusty, summer days of middle life time
and nature seem to stand still awhile.

Clive suddenly turned round from the
window, with a flush on his cheek and a
light in his eye.

1 Actually, here is Mr. Tremayne driving
up to the gate  yes, that is his brougham, I
know. I wonder, Lina  I wonder whether
he has anything to tell me about my
drawings ?'

I really think he must have some good
news for you, Clive ; he so seldom comes
here just merely to call, you know ;' Lina,

forgetting her own disappointment, was
almost as excited as Clive.

Here Mrs. Marsden entered.

'I have just seen Mr. Tremayne's carriage
coming up the garden. He very
seldom takes the trouble to honour us
with a visit,' she said, trying to be a little
sarcastic, but inwardly flattered. ' 1
hurried in here to see if the room was
tidy, for  what with your drawings, Clive,
and your books, Lina  you litter every
room in the house, and Mr. Tremayne is
such a particular and fastidious old gentleman,
I know.'

4 1 think you forget how Morwell
Vicarage is littered with books and
drawings, mother,' said Clive. ' Mr. Tree
hates empty, swept, and garnished
drawing-rooms, that look as though they

were never used  so bourgeois, he calls

them '

Here the Vicar of Morwell was
announced. He came in, looking in
somewhat brighter spirits than Clive
had seen him for some time, though,
undoubtedly, he had aged considerably
during the past winter. He paid his
respects to Mrs. Marsden, a lady for
whom he had a considerable contempt, as
having ' an essentially common mind.'
But to-day he was especially attentive to
her, for he had an especial reason for
wishing to put her in a good humour.
After a while Mr. Tremayne said,
I have a little bit of news for your son,
Mrs. Marsden. You know I was in
London last week, and 1 did not forget to
take your portfolio of drawings with me ;'

and lie turned to Clive with his most
benignant smile, while the boy grew very
pale, with the sudden conviction that a
crisis in his life was at hand. ' Well, I
showed them first to an artist friend of
mine, and he was very much struck with
them, very much struck indeed  such
perfect freshness and originality, those
were his exact words, I think  so my own
opinion was quite confirmed by a professional
one, you see. "We both agreed
the best thing to be clone was to let Aisle
and Martin see them  the house-decorators,
you know, the people from whom I got
wall-papers and other things when I had
my house done up three years ago. I
flattered myself I had some little influence
with them. They looked at your designs,
asked me a few questions about you, and

here is the result : they have sent me this
letter for you. I thought I should like to
have the pleasure of giving it you myself;'
and, with an air of benevolent triumph,
Mr. Tremayne handed a business-looking
letter to Clive.

There was perfect silence whilst Clive
read the letter to himself. His mother
and sister, watching him with breathless
interest, saw his face grow white to the
lips.

Messrs. Ainslie and Martin wrote to
offer to take Clive into their employment
as designer, and would be willing to do
so without a premium. At the end of two
years, during which time he would be
learning the technical and business part
of the profession, they would offer
him a small salary, to be increased

afterwards, if he continued to give satisfaction.


Clive seemed as though he could not
breathe when he had read the letter. He
just managed to gasp out the words, 'I
can never thank you enough, Mr. Tree
then he placed the letter in his
mothers hands, and walked away to the
window. There he stood with his back to
the company, trying to calm himself, but
his heart throbbed painfully, for any
sudden excitement like this made him feel
ready to faint.

Mrs. Marsden read the letter through,
Lina looking over her shoulder as she did
so. Then the mother, with a half pleased,
half perplexed face, turned to Mr.
Tremayne, and murmured,

I am sure we are most grateful for all

the trouble you have kindly taken for my
son.'

No trouble at all, I assure you, Mrs.
Marsden. Of course it is not exactly what
we could wish for your son, it is a little
too  what shall I say ?  too commercial a
kind of art ; perhaps one would rather see
him painting pictures. But my artist
friend had a decided opinion as to the
direction in which Olive's especial talent
lay, and he told me if he could get employed
by Ainslie and Martin he might consider
his fortune made. So he must try to
content himself with that ; and, after all,
raising the standard of popular taste, and
bringing beauty into our homes and daily
lives, is not a work to be despised ;' and
here Mr. Tremayne rose to take his
departure.

1 It is very kind of you, ' said Mrs.
Marsden, still with an embarrassed air;
'I must consult my husband before we
can give a decided reply, you will see
that.'

4 Of course  of course, only may I venture
to hint that the answer to Ainslie
and Martin should not be too long delayed ?
I only wish I had the power of offering your
son some other position as an alternative ;
but I assure you what influence I possessed
is quite exhausted. I fear I should be at
a loss to suggest any other kind of work
for your son than this.'

(don't expect anything more from me
so Mrs. Marsden rightly interpreted the
vicar's words.)

Clive came forward and wrung Mr.
Tremayne's hand.

I will try to thank you better another
day,' he said, in a broken voice.

I wish yon all success, my dear boy,'
said Mr. Treniayne, very kindly; 'come
and tell me when the matter is decided ;'
and then the Vicar of Morwell w r went away.

Mother !' cried Lina, eagerly, as soon
as the door had closed upon their visitor ;
go and see father at once, I know he is in
his study. Don't keep Clive in suspense a
moment longer than you can help; and oh,
do, I implore you, do try your best to get
him to consent !'

I will do all I can, you may depend
upon that, Lina. The offer is much too
good a one to be lightly rejected. Still,
Clive, considering your delicate health, and
other reasons, I think it would be far
better for you to remain at home for some

years to come. Mr. Tremayne would be
sure to do something for you by-and-by.'

Olive's only answer to this was,

Oh, mother, do go and talk to father f
in such a tone of aonv, that the mother
went without another word.

When she had left the room, Olive folded
his arms on the table, hid his face on
them, and clenched his hands in his hair.
Lina came to his side, and laid her hand
on his shoulder.

1 Dear boy,' she said, softly, ' I am sure
it will be all right. Father cannot refuse
such a good offer.'

1 Oh, Lina!' cried Olive, in a voice hoarse
with suffering; ' don't talk of his refusing !
It will be infinitely worse for me than it
was for you this morning  you have only
to wait a month or two, and you will get

something else you like; but for me, it
will be simply ruin ! I am only just nineteen,
and I shall never get such a chance
again ! I don't believe I shall live through
it  if he refuses to let me go ;' and Clive
started up, and began walking about the
room, as if he were in pain he did not
know how to bear.

Mr. Marsden sat in his study reading
the Guardian. He would not allow himself
the luxury of a fire that cold February
day, so he sat in his great-coat, and looked
pinched and sour. His wife entered with
the letter in her hand.

1 My dear,' she said, ' I have something
important to tell you about Clive.'

Mr. Marsden took not the slightest
notice of her, but went on reading. She
took a chair by his side, and, after a

VOL. III. L

minute, spoke again in a slightly raised

voice.

Philip, I wish you would spare me a

moment's attention. I want you to read
this letter. It has a most important bearing
on Olive's future welfare.'

Importance and Clive seem to me two
rather incompatible matters,' remarked
Mr. Marsden, without lifting his eyes
from the paper. ' But, whether the important
business exists in your own imagination
or not, it will have to wait until
I have finished this article.'

Mrs. Marsden glanced at the Guardian,
saw the words, ' Athanasius,' ' Arian
heresy,' and resigned herself. She watched
her husband's eyes so as to be able
to guess when he had come to the end
of the article ; and it appeared to her that

he was reading at a snail's pace, as if to
try her patience. She sighed as she
thought how long the suspense must
seem to the eager boy in the next
room.

At last Mr. Marsden looked up with an
exaggerated surprise.

'What, my dear, have you not gone
yet?'

You provoking man, I should like to
shake you !' was the thought that passed
through his wife's mind. But she never
lost her temper with him, and although
she was accustomed to maintain (in order
to show hoped-for suitors what an example
was set her daughters) that her husband's
word was law to her, she nevertheless
ruled him by her quiet, dogged persistence.


l2

'I cannot go, Philip, until you have
given your serious attention to this letter,
and have decided what reply is to be
made to it ;' and here she laid the open
letter over the sacred pages of the
Guardian, right under her husband's
eyes.

Mr. Marsden's curiosity was slightly
aroused by his wife's perseverance, and he
read the letter now without more ado.
He smiled a little oddly when he had
finished it, bat he pushed it away from
him without a word.

Well, Philip !' exclaimed his wife,
what do you say ?'

'Well,' he drawled, ' what do you expect
me to say ? I cannot give an answer
to a proposition like that without at least
some days' consideration ;' and he took up

the Guardian again as if to signify that
the conversation was at an end.

'But, my dear, I must tell you that it
is Mr. Tremayne's influence which has
brought about this excellent offer for
Olive, and he says the letter should be
answered at once.'

Then if I am to answer at once I
shall say that the w T hole thing is absurd
and impracticable. If we went to the
expense of sending Clive to London, we
should have him on our hands again ina
week with a headache or a fainting
fit, or some other of his womanish ailments.'


Clive does not get ill when he is employed
at work he really likes.'

1 1 am quite aware of that said his
father, with bitter sarcasm.

'You know, Philip, you have often
talked lately about trying to get Clive a
situation as clerk in a merchant's office,
you said it was all he was fit for. Well,
you would find it the hardest matter in
the world to get him even that, which
we should consider quite infra dig. for
our son  there are hundreds of applicants
for every situation. Now, don't
you see what an excellent opening this is
for Clive ? Mr. Tremayne said his fortune
might be considered made if he got
into Ainslie and Martin's office. While he
will be nothing like as much expense to us
as if he had gone to Oxford, and that, yon
know, is hopeless.'

Here Mr. Marsden gave a groan and
rumpled his hair with both hands ; but his
wife went calmly on, setting before him

all the many advantages of the house-decorations'
offer, until Mr. Marsdeu
groaned again, and looked at his watch.

Dear, dear, past four o'clock, how
much precious time is wasted in this sort
of chatter ! And I had been hoping, after
a morning's hard work in the parish, to
get a few hours' reading this afternoon.
Of course I cannot expect my family to
have the slightest comprehension of a
scholar's absolute need of a quiet hour or
two for study. Well, send the boy here,
and let us settle the matter without further
waste of valuable time

Mrs. Marsden left the room tolerably
satisfied; she knew her husband well
enough to be pretty sure that he was going
to yield. But she sighed a little, she
would have liked to have kept her 

 the delicate one of the family 
a little longer under her maternal
wing.

She found Clive sitting by the fire, his
hands supporting his throbbing head. She
laid her hand on his shoulder.

1 Go to your father in his study, Clive.
I think it will be as you wish. But, whatever
he says, don't lose your temper with
him, there's a good boy.'

Clive jumped up without a word, and
walked off to the study. Mr. Marsden
was standing on the hearth rug with his
back to the empty grate, the letter in
his hand, and a sardonic smile on his
face.

1 So, Clive,' he began, in his most drawling
tone, 'you are thinking of turning
house-painter, or something of the kind, I

hear? Do you intend practising every
branch of the profession, and may I some
day have the pleasure of seeing you go
up a ladder with a bucket of whitewash
?'

Clive stood facing him in absolute silence.
The boy might be physically weak,
but no one who saw him as he was now 
his white, sensitive face absolutely rigid in
the determined control he kept over himself
 could doubt his moral strength.

'You will present a striking contrast
from what your father was at the same age.
But there, I have given up all hope of
making a scholar and a gentleman of you.
You must go your own sordid way ; only
remember this, if you don't like this house-painter's
work  or whatever it is  when
you get to London, don't come whining

back to me at a week's end, and want me
to bind you apprentice to some other
trade, for I shall emphatically decline.
"No, you have chosen your own course, and
you must stick to it, well or ill. Here,
take your letter;' and he flung it at him.
1 Now, let me hear no more about it. I
wish to know none of the repulsive details,
you and your mother must arrange all
those. You can go.'

Clive picked up the letter from the floor,
and said, in a hard, constrained voice as if
forcing himself to say the words,

Thank you, father.'

'Thank me! what for?' and Mr. Mars-den
gave a short laugh.

1 What for, indeed ?' echoed Clive, as he
left the room.

Mr. Marsden gave a profound sigh of

relief as be turned to bis Guardian again.

Now I trust I may bave a little peace
for the rest of the afternoon.' He felt no
regret, rather a secret gladness, that in a
few days' time his only son would have
left his home. He had taken a dislike to
seeing about the house the tall, slender,
pale-faced boy, with his somewhat drooping
figure and languid ways, who was
capable of neither masculine studies nor
masculine sports, and who was no more a
credit to his father than if he had been a
girl.

For the next week the household at St.
Stephen's Vicarage (always excluding the
vicar himself) was in a state of bustle and
excitement. Janet spent all her time in
turning over Olive's wardrobe, darning old
clothes, and marking new ones. Mrs.

Marsden was full of plans for her son's
comfort; and it was arranged that he
should board and lodge with some cousins
of hers, the Miss Knights, who lived in a
pretty little old-fashioned house at Hampstead
 two cheerful, clever, kind-hearted
women, whom Mrs. Marsden called old
maids, and whom she held up to Lina
as a fearful warning of what she would
come to some day, if she did not take
care.

'I only hope retorted Lina, 'that, when
I am their age, I shall be anything
like as bright and pleasant as the Miss
Knights.'

Meanwhile Lina, bravely keeping silence
about her own bitter disappointment respecting
the Penzance High School, threw
herself heart and soul into Olive's interests,

and was ever ready with sympathy when
be talked to her about his hopes and ambitions.
Perhaps, during this last week of
his life at St. Stephen's Vicarage, Clive was
the calmest as well as the most cheerful
of the family party. Since his going to
London had been finally settled, he had felt
physically stronger than he had done for
years past. There is no more powerful
tonic than the fulfilment of long deferred
hope  a tree of life, as Solomon calls it.

Clive dined once more with Mr. Tree
The Vicar of Morwell was full of
sympathy with the boy's good fortune, and
was a little inclined to be patronizing and
self-complacent because of his own share
in bringing it about. To play the part of
Maecenas would exactly have suited
Reginald Tremayne.

As for Mr. Marsden, be maintained an
obstinate silence, and tried to ignore the
fact of bis son's leaving borne. He bad
indeed scarcely spoken to Clive for the
last two months, when he had finally given
up all attempts to force bis son to study,
and as Mr. Marsden bad said, to ' make a
scholar and a gentleman of him.'

When the last morning came, and the
pony-carriage was at the door, waiting to
convey him and his portmanteau to St.
Stephen's railway-station, Clive, feeling
that the occasion required a certain
amount of moral courage, knocked at the
door of his father's stud', to bid him goodbye.


Entering, he found Mr. Marsden, with
a pile of books on the table before him,
writing next Sunday's sermon.

'Good-bye, father, I am just off to
London,' said Give, hurriedly.

4 Good-bye, Give,' replied the father,
with his sardonic smile and languid drawl
at their full perfection, 'and, if you can
manage to remain in London for more
than a week, I shall take it as a personal
favour.'

For once Give 'let himself go.'

One thing you may depend'upon, that I
shall never return to your house unless you
invite me as a guest. If I cannot live in
London, I will die there.'

Mr. Mars den looked up with a sort of
bitter amusement.

1 Pray don't go into hysterics,' he was
about to say; but Give went out with a
bang of the door.

It may be supposed how eagerly his

mother and sisters looked out for Olive's
letters. They were everything that could
satisfy them. Mr. Martin, the member of
the firm with whom he had most dealings,
was very civil, so he wrote  he had plenty
to do and plenty to learn, most of it drudgery,
but that he did not mind. For Clive
had too much genius to object to drudgery
for the sake of his art. It is a fair test
as to whether a man or woman possesses
the sacred fire  that he or she is ready
and willing for the needful toil of raising
fuel to feed that fire.

Clive went on to say that he found the
Miss Knights very kind, and their little
house charming, and he added not a word
about his own health  a sure sign, remarked
his mother, that he was fairly well.

Lina had not lone to wait for the reward

of her patience and fidelity to her own
vocation  that of teacher. In the following
summer a post as assistant mistress
was offered her, with an excellent salary,
and, what she looked upon as especial good-fortune,
at the High School in St. John's
Wood, because there she should be in the
neighbourhood of her brother. She wrote
at once to accept the offer. When her
letter was posted, she informed her
mother of what she had done. Then a
storm broke, before which Lina's brave
spirit quailed a little.

Mrs. Marsden wept and raved, Janet
wept and pleaded.

 You are ruining your prospects for life
they shrieked.

Not at all,' she replied. ' On the contrary,
I should consider my prospects

VOL. III. M

ruined if I remained at borne doing
nothing.'

I You have thrown away one excellent
chance of marriage !' sobbed Mrs. Mars-den.
c You will be sure to have another if
you will only remain at home. I can't
think what you want !'

I I want more work and more freedom
than I can get here. And as for marriage,
it is nothing: to me. Nothing would induce
me to marry unless I fell in love with
a man.'

How improperly you talk ! I quite
blush for you!' said her mother, and soon,
and so on, until Lina had little peace
by day, or sleep by night, and she became
almost ill with worry and vexation.

1 You are losing all your good looks,'
said Mrs. Marsden, spitefully. 'I always

said you were the kind of girl who would
"go off" soon, and that if you did not marry
young you would be sure to die an old
maid.'

4 If I do look ill, it is your fault for
worrying me so, mother. You were kind
enough about Olive's going to London.'

Of course the two cases are totally
different. Clive is a young man and ought
to work.'

And yet I have far more health and
strength for work than he has, and I have
just as much vocation for teaching as he
has for art. Why try to force all girls
into marriage ? You don't wish to force
all boys to go into the army.'

Mr. Marsden took a quite unexpected
line. The idea of Lina becoming a
governess, as he called it, filled him with

M '2

grim amusement, and he offered not the
slightest opposition to her wishes.

Let her go,' he replied, when his wife
implored him, as her last resource, to
denounce Lina with all the clerical and
paternal anathemas he could compose for
the occasion. ' Let her go, there will be
one fewer useless mouth to feed. In my
young days, a girl considered it a fearful
calamity when she had to turn out of her
home, and get her living by governesses.
Let Lina do it, if she thinks it so delightful
: I stipulate only, that she carries out
her little farce in sober earnest. Not
another penny will she ever receive from
me when she has once left my roof.'

Dear mamma,' said Janet, pathetically
shall soon be the only child you have
at home. I will never, never leave you !'

1 No, I believe you never will !' was Mrs.
Marsden's exasperated answer. It filled
her bitter cup to overflowing, to have left
on her hands the most dutiful, most docile,
most devout, and the dullest of her
daughters.

Lina went to London, and soon found
as much satisfaction in her work as Clive
did in his. And here I leave the brother
and sister, much as the hero and heroine
were left at the end of an old-fashioned
novel. ' They were happy ever after.'
The saying is quite as likely to be true of
Lina and Clive, as it is of the brides and
bridegrooms who marry in the last chapter
of the third volume. ' Blessed is the man
who has found his work,' says Carlyle, and
I will add  the woman who has found her
work is blessed also. Lina was blessed, as
well as Clive.

One day near the end of that year, as
Mrs. Marsden was toiling up the hill from
St. Stephen's railway station, on her way
home from Tavistock, she saw, at the
entrance of the lane which led to Radford
Farm, a little group, a young well-dressed
lady, a nurse-maid, and a baby in a
perambulator. As Mrs. Marsden neared
them, the young lady snatched up the child
in her arms, came forward a few steps, and
said, in a small, and rather frightened
voice,

Mamma, do please look at my baby !'
Mrs. Marsden's maternal heart was
melted  all thought of her sour High-church
vicar at home, and of the low,
vulgar, schismatic tenant of Radford Farm,
was forgotten. She saw only her eldest
born, Harriet, comely, matronly, happy,

with a fat, staring, sturdy boy, two months
old in her arms.

1 Oh, Harriet, my dear girl,' she cried,
I am so pleased to meet you again  and.
I have so longed to see your baby ; give
him to me ;' and Mrs. Marsden kissed her
daughter, and kissed the baby, and felt
that all interest in life was not quite over
for her, although she was left in the
vicarage with only poor, dowdy Janet.

My dear Harriet, it's no use annoying
your papa, with all his strong views about
schism, but I shall just come and see you
and the baby sometimes, quietly, without
saying anything about it at home. And
are you tolerably comfortable, my poor
dear ?' she asked, pityingly. ' Certainly,
you are looking remarkably well, and how
nicely you are dressed.'

Oh, 1 am so happy, mamma ; as happy
as ever I can be ;' and then Harriet
coloured, and looked appealingly at her
mother. ' Do come and see Eobert, too,
as well as me and the baby  he is awfully
good to me now, and so pleased with his
little boy.'

4 Well, if he is really kind to you '

Oh, he is  he is, indeed !' replied
Harriet, eagerly.

Perhaps, then, I will speak to him
some day when I have an opportunity.
But I shall never dare let your father
know I have ever entered his doors.'

Oh, come home with me now, mamma,
please do  old Mrs. Wendron is gone out
to a tea-meeting, which is so much the
better  and I want to show you my house,
and my dairy, and my poultry ; you can ? t

think what a lot of things I have learnt todo
 the days never seem long enough.'

Mrs. Marsden would never have taken
the initiative of calling at Radford Farm,
but she willingly yielded to her daughter's
pleading. She had long felt much curiosity
about Harriet's home, and her manner
of life, and, above all, her baby ; it
was hard, thought Mrs. Marsden, that
she should not be able to welcome her first
grand-child, just because its father was
a farmer and a Dissenter.

1 The house is very plain and homely, of
course,' said Harriet, as they entered the
granite porch, 'but you can't think how
comfortable it is ; and we have some
awfully nice old china, and the furniture
is delightfully quaint and old-fashioned,
just what Clive would admire so much ;'

and so, with the pride of a Hezekiah,
Harriet displayed all her treasures ; and,
unlike Hezekiah, no doom came upon her,
but rather the blessing of the peacemaker's,
when, by-and-by, Egbert's heavy
footstep was heard in the porch, and she
whispered, eagerly,

1 Mamma, there is my husband  you
will speak to him kindly, won't you ?'

Robert came into the parlour, then 
with none of the abashed and apologetic
airs that Mrs. Marsden expected from her
low-born son-in-law  he stood silent, stern,
unbending, in a truly Nonconformist
attitude, until she held out to him the
olive-branch  her hand.

How do you do, Mr. Wendron ? I
am very pleased to make your acquaintance.'


She spoke a little stiffly, but not ungraciously,
and Robert returned her greeting
by cordially shaking her hand, aud
saying, in his bold and independent
fashion,

4 Better late than never, Mrs. Marsden.
You are heartily welcome.'

Harriet begged her mother to remain to
tea.

I made the cake myself,' she said,
proudly, ' and the butter too, think of
that!'

'You don't know what a clever, handy
woman your daughter has turned out,' said
Eobert, determined that Mrs. Marsden
should know Harriet's exact position in
the household. ' There's not a bit of a
fine lady about her now, whatever there
might have been when I first married her.

We are both of us wiser now, aren't we,
Harriet, my dear?'

Harriet coloured vividly  a good many
memories were called up by Robert's words,
not all of them pleasant ones. But she
was too happy to be much embarrassed,
and she answered,

'Yes, indeed, mamma, I am a real
farmer's wife now, and quite proud of it,
too ;' and she gave a loving glance across
the table at her husband.

'And a future farmer's mother,' was
Robert's reply, returning Harriet's look.
'You have seen our boy, Mrs. Marsden?'

He is a fine little fellow,' replied the
vicar's wife, who was beginning to feel
that she was in a dream.

To be sitting at the lavishly spread
table in the parlour of Radford Farm,

amicably talking with, and accepting the
hospitality of, that low, disreputable
Dissenter, who, to her shame and grief,
had made himself her son-in-law ! And
the most bewildering part of it all was,
that she could no longer detest and despise
Robert "Wendron as she had formerly felt
it her duty to do.

Here in this warm, fire-lighted, picturesque
room, with the substantial,
old-fashioned furniture, and the tea-table
laden with good things, she was forced
to confess to herself that Harriet's
lot, if a vulgar, was also a comfortable
one, and, more than that, Harriet's husband
was one of the finest-looking men
she had ever seen, and, without making
any pretence of being a gentleman, carried
himself with an air that was proud, frank.

independent, and, she thought, almost
noble.

'You will come again, mamma said
Harriet, when at last Mrs. Marsden, with
a little tremor as she thought of her vicar
at home, rose to depart.

Certainly I will, my dear. Really it is
so dull at home now, with all the young
people away  for I cannot call Janet young
that it will be quite a pleasant change
to come and see you now and then in a
quiet way  quite a quiet way,' she repeated,
significantly.

'And bring Janet next time, mamma.
Poor Janet !' said Harriet, compassionately.

For this was the lot of the dutiful
daughter who slaved in the household and
the parish, and who had but one ambition
to become a dutiful wife and mother, as

she had been brought up to be ; this washer
lot  to be sneered at by her parents,
and to be pitied by her sisters.

Come again by all means. Mrs. Mars-den.
We shall be always pleased to see
you in our house,' were Robert's parting
words, as he opened the door for the
vicar's wife ; and Mrs. Marsden, always
a little bewildered by Robert's independence
and Harriet's content, took her
daughter and her son-in-law at their word,
and was henceforward a not unfrequent
visitor at Radford Farm.

CHAPTER VII,

BY THE ' PERISHABLE TRAIN.'

As that spring passed away, Cecilia Tree
began to feel that the only hope
for her mother and herself, if their life
together was not to become intolerable,
was to find some work, congenial to their
tastes, which would absorb their energies,
and would, moreover, make some addition
to their narrow income.

It was evident that Mrs. Tremayne

sometimes found time hang heavily on
her hands. She sighed a little as she
talked of her beloved Westonville.

1 1 don't know how it was, the days used
to go so quickly there. T was always as
busy as a bee, so I guess that was the
reason.'

She grew a little restless, too, especially
when  as not unfrequently happens at
Penzance  it rained for days together, and
sea and land were wrapped in soft, warm
vapour. One day she said, musingly,

I suppose Mrs. Rivers has got another
housekeeper long ago. I was very happy
and comfortable with her, though she had
a lot of company at the house and it was
pretty hard work for me sometimes  still,
I should never mind going back to her, if I
could see you sometimes, my dear.'

VOL. III. N

Cecilia started ; a sudden rush of bitterness
overwhelmed her.

4 Yes,' she thought, ' the time is near at
hand when my mother will regret having
left London and Mrs. Rivers, to live at
Penzance with me. There she had plenty
to interest her mind and employ her faculties
 a position of responsibility and of
some authority, a glimpse of the world and
of society. But here  what have I to
give her in exchange r have I not wronged
her by tempting her away from a life she
liked aud was fitted for? I know, indeed,
that she loves me, but  love is not
enough.'

A certain reaction of feeling set in with
Cecilia, a relaxation of her moral nerves
and muscles, after their extreme tension.
It had been quite possible to her to make

that tremendous effort of her life  the
renunciation of her home, of all that made
existence bright and enjoyable ; it had
been almost easy to do it, so osborne had
she been for a time by her enthusiasm for
justice to the weak, and by her abhorrence
of the wrong done to her mother in the
name of the law.

But it was not easy to carry out that
renunciation in cold blood, to go on living
day after day, in a narrow and monotonous
routine, every day realising more
vividly what she had lost, yet all the while
knowing that at any moment it was
possible to regain it. For she had but to
give her uncle the promise he required of
her, and with open arms he would welcome
her back to his home, as if she were a
returned prodigal.

N 2

Maurice O'O'Donovan, at their sorrowful
parting, had sustained her with ' counsels
of perfection,' with words that seemed to
burn with noble and exalted feeling. He
had made her believe that to sacrifice
everything in order to atone to her mother,
w r as not only dutiful, but heroic. But
what was there heroic in the practical
result of that sacrifice ? what was there
heroic in the spectacle of two women, living
a dull life on a narrow income in seaside
lodgings ?

We may go through terrible surgical
operations, the cutting off the right hand,
the plucking out the right eye, bravely
enough, if the senses are deadened by
chloroform ; but no chloroform is given us
in the pain and fever which follow our
awakening; and we have to bear, as best

we may, the long and weary process of the
healing of our wounds.

Cecilia tried to arouse herself ; she felt
that the situation was growing full of
peril. Her mother was weary of a life of
idleness, yet she would never consent to
part from Cecilia for ever, and let her
return unfettered to Morwell Vicarage.
Besides which, to do so, to accept her
uncle's unrighteous terms, would be a
bitter humiliation to Cecilia ; it would be
to confess that she was beaten; that, having
sacrificed everything for her mothers sake,
she had discovered that her mother was
not worth the sacrifice ; and that, on Mrs.
Tremayne's side, she was willing to give
up her newly-found daughter as a disappointment
and a failure, and to promise
never to see her again.

In this sore perplexity, an idea gradually
dawned upon Cecilia, that there was work
waiting at Penzance for anyone who had
the skill, and enough of the spirit of enterprise
to undertake it. She had observed
with the surprise that everyone who has
lived in less genial climates must feel  the
quantities of flowers which luxuriated at
Penzance throughout the winter, and the
early date at which spring flowers began
to bloom. And one day an odd notice at
the railway station caught her attention,
that the ' perishable train ' started for
London every day at noon. It did not
sound an inviting train for passengers who
cared for the safety of their lives and
limbs ; but the meaning of this singular
advertisement was that a train daily conveyed
to London c perishable goods,' chiefly

fish and brocoli, the chief articles of commerce
in that part of Mount's Bay.

Here therefore were the flowers, every
year more and more an object of desire
amongst the rich and fashionable people
of the West-end of London ; here were the
means of transport, and here also was Mrs.
Tremayne, wearying for something to do,
with a respectable knowledge and an intense
love of flower-culture.

Several times, in their daily walks in the
beautiful neighbourhood of Penzance,
Cecilia and her mother had passed a little
house, hardly more than a cottage, standing
amidst a large and neglected garden,
with a notice-board f To Let ' at the gate,
and Mrs. Tremayne had sighed.

How I should like that little house !
We might be so happy there, Cecilia ; we

should always have something to interest
us, if we had a garden like that.'

One day Cecilia revealed to her mother
the scheme which for some time past had
been maturing in her brain. They would
rent this house, or a similar one ; they
would grow flowers for the London market,
and despatch them thither by the
perishable train.'

Mrs. Tremayne caught eagerly at the
idea, but Cecilia proceeded cautiously to
work, surveying all the difficulties and
possible obstacles of the ground before
her, as she moved onwards.

Mrs. Rivers was her great hope, and
Kathleen proved herself equal to the occasion.
She not only entered into Cecilia's
enterprise with enthusiasm, but was full
of solid and practical help.

You know she wrote, ' I spend fabulous
sums in flowers every year for the
dinners and " at homes " I have to give.
The florist with whom I deal must make
a large profit from me and his other customers
 a profit which is shared in quite
a small degree by the actual producers of
the flowers. Now send your flowers direct
to me, Cecilia ; it will be a benefit to both
of us. I will engage to take a certain
regular amount weekly, and I will try my
best to induce my friends to do the same.
This may not be sufficient custom to make
your scheme pay ; then you must fall back
on the London shops, from which you will
have smaller profits, but a probably larger
demand.'

The little house to which Mrs. Tremayne
had taken so great a fancy proved to be

exactly what they needed. It was about
a mile from Penzance railway station, the
rent was twenty pounds a year ; there
were four rooms on the ground-floor, and
four above, two little sitting-rooms, and
two kitchens below, over them two good
bed-rooms, a servants-room, and a lumber-room.
There was nearly half-an-acre of
garden, at present in a wild and uncared-for
state, but with a most fertile and
promising soil.

In the month of March following their
first coming to Penzance, the mother and
daughter took possession of this house,
which the Methodist owner had named
Hope Cottage. There followed a time of
great interest and amusement to Cecilia,
when her long-depressed spirits rose to
their usual level. It was a delight to her

to furnish this little house ; it taxed all
her skill and taste to make it pretty and
artistic, without exceeding the sum she
and her mother could prudently spare for
the purpose, and she had many difficulties
to contend with in the far south-west,
where modern ideas of house decoration
have only just begun to penetrate. But
she found some charming antique furniture
while prowling about the by-ways of
Falmouth, which she was able to buy at a
low price, because public opinion in that
town would have despised it as .'
And then, for ornamentation,
there were always to be had cheap
and pretty odds and ends from Japan.

Mrs. Tremayne left the arrangements
of their house entirely in Cecilia's hands ;
she had still too much awe of her daughter's

culture and good breeding to actively
interfere with her, but she sighed to herself
because she was not allowed a gilt
looking-glass, and a cheffonier with marble
top and plate-glass door in her drawing-room,
and because she had to put up with
coarse, dull-hued Scinde rugs instead of a
Brussels carpet with an ' elegant pattern
of roses.' And secretly she thought her
friend Mrs. Bosustow's (truly lodging-house)
taste was vastly superior to
Cecilia's.

There are plenty of people like Mrs.
Tremayne, with eyes awake to the beauty
of Nature, who can honestly admire a
good painting, and yet whose taste is
hopelessly, vulgarly astray when they deal
with simple matters of the house.

1 How Clive Marsden would have helped

me and encouraged me !' thought Cecilia,
regretfully. It was a little disheartening
to feel that all her efforts to beautify her
house met with no appreciative response
from her mother, and that they gratified
herself alone. ' Perhaps she will come to
like them some day, and meantime I cannot
debase myself by deliberately buying
things I know to be bad in design, and
worse in execution

After a year's trial of flower-growing,
the Tremaynes found that by the sale of
roses, carnations, arms, hyacinths, and
the whole tribe of bulbous plants, they
had gained enough money to pay their
house-rent and taxes, and the whole cost
of conveying their boxes and hampers of
flowers to London. Not a very brilliant
result, some people might think, but the

mother and daughter were thoroughly
satisfied with the first profits of their
experiment. They had proved it was possible
for two women of 'limited means,' to
make a substantial addition to their income
by work that was pleasant and congenial
to their taste, that was healthy, not
sedentary, and that did not over-tax their
strength.

And when, about a year after Cecilia
had left Morwell, Mr. and Mrs. Rivers
announced their intention of spending a
week or two at the Queen's Hotel, Penzance,
for the express purpose of seeing
their friend in the home she had made for
herself, Cecilia felt that that little home
was one of which she had some reason to
feel proud.

Hope Cottage stood surrounded by

meadows, facing a by-road, shaded by
trees, which led to an old country-house
further on, and to nowhere else. There was
nothing pretentious about the cottage, but
with its green Venetian shutters, casement
windows, and masses of climbing roses
and honeysuckle, it had a simple beauty
of its own. Indoors there was much refinement
and quaint prettiness : delicate,
spindle-legged tables, mahogany bureaus
with brass ornamentation, corner cupboards
fitted with blue Japanese china, and
a few Japanese fans garnished the sitting-rooms.
Everything in the bed-rooms
looked fresh and new, deal-boarded floors
with a few rugs, unvarnished deal furniture,
muslin curtains, and white toilet
china, made them as much like the bedrooms
in a Swiss pension as was possible.

The garden was more especially Mrs. Tree
kingdom, and she looked with
triumph on her little forest of rose-trees,
her grey expanse of carnation plants, her
meadows of hyacinth and narcissus, which
were not only delightful to the senses of
sight and smell, but which were as dear to
her as the ' pig which paid the rent,' is to
the Irishman.

Mrs. Tremayne was a little embarrassed
at meeting again Mr. and Mrs. Rivers
under such very different circumstances.
But their kindly tact, and the interest they
took in her new home, and her new work,
soon set her at her ease.

Eccleston Rivers, M.P., was a small-stature,
grey-haired, gentle-voiced man
of fifty, who held sunny views of life in his
domestic world, and revolutionary ones in

the realm of politics. One of the chief
articles of Mr. Rivers' faith was that every
trade and profession ought to be thrown
open to women, and Cecilia's experiment of
flower-growing had from the first aroused
his keenest interest and sympathy. He
strolled round the garden with Mrs. Tree
examining her plants, asking hundreds
of questions about gardening, listening
with deep attention to her answers ; he
was a man who could throw his whole soul
into a multitude of subjects, and who was
always gathering up information of all sorts
and kinds wherever he went ; he always
welcomed a new fact, and, what was still
more remarkable in a middle-aged Englishman,
he always welcomed a new idea.

Meantime Mrs. Rivers talked to Cecilia ;
she had many things to tell her which she

vol. in. o

did not care to pat into a letter, not
knowing whose eyes might read it. It was
evident that Kathleen's mind was more at
ease than usual about her brother. After
actively employing himself in helping to
establish branches of the Land League, and
in the work of organizing the Irish in
England generally, Maurice O'O'Donovan
had gone to America for a few months'
visit, and Mrs. Rivers was for a time relieved
from her ever haunting dread that
some day he would consider it his duty to
return to Ireland.

And we know what would probably bethe
end of that, Cecilia,' she said, a look
of pain contracting her forehead. ' If
he can steadily face the prospect of returning
to penal servitude, how can I
face it for him ? With all the happiness

it is to have him with me, I could almost
wish that he would make his home in
America for the next few years

Maurice was to Kathleen the most vivid
interest of her life, he was her joy, her
pride, and at the same time her never-ceasing
care, anxiety, and trouble. It was to
her husband that she owed all her peace
and placid happiness. Mr. Rivers believed
in the absolute equality of man and wife
in the married state. With his perfect
temper and his clear intellect, he successfully
carried out his theory in every-day,
practical life, and still showed his wife of
more than seven years standing the courtesy
and consideration of a lover. There was
between them that peculiarly devoted love
which seems to belong almost exclusively
to childless couples.

o2

These were the brightest days Cecilia
had known since she had left Morwell
Vicarage. It was complete happiness to
have the companionship of the two friends
with whom she had the most thorough sympathy
and understanding. Mr. Rivers had
always had a great admiration for Cecilia ;
next to his wife, he was accustomed to say,
he considered her the noblest woman of his
acquaintance. But the woeful day of parting
must come at last. Kathleen's heart
was wrung by Cecilia's extreme dejection
the last evening before Mr. and Mrs.
Rivers left Penzance.

4 You cannot imagine the loneliness of
my life here, Kathleen. I don't know how
I am going to live when you have gone
away again.'

'Dearest Cecilia, indeed I can understand

it. I know how lonely you must
feel, but you are not lonely in reality ;
your life seems dull and prosaic to you,
but you have on your side all sweet and
noble influences  everything that makes
the world better, and for companions you
have the noble army of martyrs, for you
are a martyr, Cecilia, as well as Maurice.'

I Ah ! Kathleen,' Cecilia smiled faintly,
1 your words ought to inspire me ; but,
after all, what am I ? no exalted person at
all, only an old maid of limited means,
struggling to earn a little money by selling
flowers.'

I I know what my husband would reply
to you,'  Mrs. Rivers tried to answer
cheerfully  l he would say that to establish
a fresh industry for women, a fresh means
for them to earn money, would be quite

enough to make a life worth living.
Yours is a nature too wide and sympathetic,
for you to be able to be unhappy
for any length of time.'

And Kathleen remembered how some
writer has compared a vigorous and noble
soul to a ship with water-tight compartments.
Disaster may befall part of the
vessel, she may even spring a leak ; but
she will not founder, for the rest of her is
sound. So it is with those who have
large sympathies and wide-spreading interests.
Fate may deal crushing blows to
their affections or their pride, but so much
of life is left to them that they rally ; and
somewhat shattered though they may be,
yet still afloat, still obeying the helmsman,
they hold on their course steadily, until
port is reached.

On their way homewards, the husband
and wife spent a couple of days at Exeter,
in order to visit a relation of Mr. Rivers.
When afterwards they were at the railway-station,
waiting for the express to take
them to Darlington, they suddenly came
upon the Rev. Reginald Tremayne at the
bookstall, choosing a yellow-backed novel
to amuse him on his journey home to
Morwell.

He started slightly on seeing Mrs.
Rivers, and his greeting was a little cold
and constrained. He could not forgive her
for knowing his family secret, or for having
been the unwitting means of bringing his
brother's disastrous widow to Morwell.
On her side, Kathleen felt somewhat conscious
and embarrassed, for this was the
first time she had seen Mr. Tremayne

since be and his niece had parted, apparently
for ever.

But Mr. Rivers boldly ' grasped the
nettle.'

We have been spending the last fortnight
at Penzance, Mr. Tremayne ; and we
have seen a great deal of your niece,
Cecilia. I went down there rather ailing.
I had never got thoroughly rested after the
hard work and late hours of last session ;
but I declare to you that what has invigorated
me more than the sea air, has
been the sight of that young woman, who
is as beautiful in mind as she is in face,
toiling nobly, patiently, to make life a
little brighter for her mother and herself,
and I hope also for other women who may
join them, or succeed them, in their work. 1

1 1 don't think I clearly understand you,'

replied Mr. Tremayne, in a freezing tone.
I was not aware that there was the slightest
need for my niece to toil.'

No actual need, certainly ; she and her
mother have enough to live upon in a narrow,
stinted sort of way. But that does
not content Cecilia ; she thinks just as I
do, that if instead of being poor and idle,
struggling to keep up a miserable, squalid
pretence of gentility, women were to work
hard and earn money, they would be much
happier and more respected. This is
what your niece is doing, Mr. Tremayne;'
and caring nothing that the vicar recoiled
from him, as if he was unfolding a tale
that was horrible and loathsome, Mr.
Rivers went on to describe Cecilia's successful
experiment.

She sells most of her flowers to a

florist in London, but my wife and some
of her friends have them sent to them
direct, and I believe Cecilia has also a few
customers in Penzance. Yes, I think it
will turn out an excellent speculation.'

It was too much  the words ' buying,
selling, customers turned Reginald Tree
sick. He raised his hat abruptly.

I must bid you good morning now.
My train is due, and I have to cross the
line.'

He travelled back to Morwell in a state
of wrath and disgust which prevented his
having any enjoyment of his 'yellow-back.'
This was the first time that the grand old
name of Tremayne had been polluted by
any connection with trade. He was not
sure that Cecilia had not disgraced the
family even more than her father had

done. For at least bis mesalliance might
be to a certain extent hushed up and forgotten,
whereas the very essence of
Cecilia's offence was its publicity; commercial
transactions cannot be carried on
in the dark.

How the taint in Cecilia's blood 
which seemed so absolutely non-existent
when she lived in my house  has shown
itself at last ! I might have known that
the result of my brother's disgraceful
marriage would be revealed sooner or
later. But now  she is dead to me. I
have done with Cecilia for ever. If she
were to come back to me now, I would not
receive her, or own her as a Tremayne.'

And then the vicar was ready to
curse himself for his folly in having,
nearly thirty years ago, taken Cecilia from

her mother and brought her up as his own
child. What had he gained by it now ?
how futile had been all his endeavours to
save the family honour ! Not only frailty,
but black ingratitude  ' thy name is
woman !'

Well, he would pluck the very remembrance
of her out of his heart  this
woman whom he had loved as if she were
his own daughter. All over now were the
faint, half-acknowledged hopes that some
day Cecilia would return to him, would
submit to the sole terms he imposed upon
her, and all would be again as though she
had never discovered her degraded mother.

His indignation was like renewed
energy to the old man, and, directly after
he returned to his home, he began to
seriously put into execution a plan he had

sometimes of late meditated upon. He
discharged several of his servants ; he sold
Cecilia's horse and a saddle-horse of his
own ; he shut up most of the rooms at
Morwell Vicarage, and placed the house in
charge of his old gardener and his wife ;
he engaged a sickly, needy clergyman,
who lived at Tavistock, and who was in
too bad health to undertake regular parish
work, to have a service or two at Morwell
church every Sunday during his absence,
and he departed to London, with a couple
of servants and his horse and brougham.
He would take a flat somewhere near the
Park ; he had belonged for years to an
excellent club, and now he was free from
all family ties he determined to live a
pleasant, social life in town for a part of
every year.

And so Cecilia, whose example Mr.
Rivers declared had inspired and invigorated
him, was the cause of a distinct
lowering in her uncle's sense of duty and
moral tone generally. The old saying is
a true one ; ' a savour of life, unto life,'
may be also ' a savour of death, unto
death.'

CHAPTER VIII.

NOT IN VAIN.

Some time has passed, and we have now-come
to the winter of 1881, the time when
Mr. Forster's reign of terror in Ireland
was at its height, and when one of the
most shameful pages in English history
was written.

The campaign had been inaugurated
by Mr. Gladstone's famous speech at
Leeds, when the Prime Minister unfurled

that black flag which he called the 'resources
of civilization,' and which he
intended as a counter-demonstration to
the magnificent reception given to Mr.
Parnell in Dublin just before.

A week later the storm burst.* The
leading Irish members of Parliament were
arrested ; and throughout the i sister
country' town-councillors, poor-law guardians,
professional men, merchants, all
those who were most trusted and respected
by the people were thrown into prison
without charge or inquiry, upon lettres che
cachet issued at the suggestion of some
landlord or police inspector. All constitutional
rights were suspended; a raid was
made upon newspapers obnoxious to the

Vide the daily press from October, 1881, to May,
1882.

Government ; public meetings were dispersed
by armed police, who shot and
bayoneted women and children ; detectives
dogged the footsteps of everyone suspected
of sympathy with the people ; private
letters were opened and confiscated in the
post-office, and charitable ladies, who collected
money for the starving evicted
tenants, were imprisoned  by the aid of
obsolete statutes  as disreputable characters.


The prisoners were arrested and imprisoned
without due legal process, were
in vast proportion not tried at all ; when
they were tried, were tried largely by exceptional,
not regular, tribunals. When
they were condemned, they were condemned
not by the free verdict of a popular
body, but by sentences of judges dependent

VOL. III. p

on the Government for their bread, on a
Government, moreover, of which the title
rested on a flagrant breach of the most
solemn oaths, and of the written legal
constitution of the country.'

These are the words written by Mr.
Gladstone respecting what happened in
Naples during the reign of King Bomba.
Nothing could better describe the state
of Ireland under his own regime. And
whilst I write, another leader of the Liberal
party has thus spoken to an English
audience :*

'I do not believe that the great majority
of Englishmen have the slightest conception
of the system under which this free
nation attempts to rule the sister country.

Mr. Chamberlain, June. 18S5.

It is a system which is founded on the
bayonets of thirty thousand soldiers encamped
permanently as in a hostile country.
It is a system as completely centralised
and bureaucratic as that with which
Russia governs Poland, or as that which
prevailed in Venice under the Austrian
rule. An Irishman at this moment cannot
move a step  he cannot lift a finger
in any parochial, municipal, or educational
work  without being confronted with,
interfered with, controlled by an English
official, appointed by a foreign Government,
and without a shade or shadow of representative
authority.'

Those were dark days for Cecilia Tree
far away at Penzance, without a
single friend or acquaintance near her who
had any sympathy with Ireland. All her

p 2

life she bad had a passionate hatred of
oppression, a passionate longing to free
the oppressed ; and now her whole soul
burned with rage and shame that her own
country, with all its glorious traditions,
should play the part of tyrant. It was
better to be one of the down-trodden than
one of the despots ; better now to be Irish
and in prison, than to be English and
free.

But it was useless to utter any of the
thoughts which whirled through her brain.
She had only one relief, writing to Kathleen
Rivers ; and both her letters and her
friend's replies were necessarily worded
with some caution and reticence. The
letters of Irish men and women, and their
"English sympathisers, were what used
to be called, ' Grahamized,' in the days

when Englishmen took the part of another
oppressed nationality  Italy. That
is to say, these letters were opened in
the post-office, and read by government
detectives.

Surrounded by silence as Cecilia was,
a lonely spectator of the whirlwind of
passion, excitement, and terror raging afar
off, but of which she knew little beyond
what she read in the newspapers, she was
reminded of what had happened when,
some years ago, she had been visiting a
friend who lived on one of the hills which
encircled the city of Bath. One night
a great fire had broken out, and Cecilia,
watching breathlessly the columns of flame
and lurid smoke, which rose as from a
furnace, had noticed, with a strange awe,
that not a sound was to be heard  all

seemed the silence of death around the
burning houses. For the wind, blowing
from that side of the city on which she
stood, had carried away from her the
shouts and murmurs of the crowd who
thronged the streets, and the throbbing
of the fire-engines, and the crash of falling
walls and roofs.

One anxiety she was spared. For the
present, Maurice O'O'Donovan was safe. A
few weeks before the storm of English
wrath had burst, he, in company with
an Irish member of Parliament, and at
the request of the founders of the Land
League, had gone to America again, this
time on a mission to raise funds for the
tenants who were being evicted all over
Ireland, and who, some of them, were
starving and dying by the roadside. And

there Maurice remained throughout that
winter  sorely against his will, Cecilia felt
certain. But he was a man who was accustomed
to keep his personal wishes in
abeyance, and who had a strong belief in
the necessity of discipline and obedience to
orders amongst the rank and file  one of
which he considered himself to be  of any
political organization ; and he was entirely
loyal to their leader.

It was during this fateful time that
Cecilia, through a casual mention in one
of Mrs. Rivers' letters, first learnt that
a small Irish colony lived in the mining
district of Cardinham, a short railway
journey from Penzance. With thankfulness
that here at last was some way
open to her in which she could show her
sympathy in this  one of Ireland's many

dark days, she often spent a leisure afternoon
in making friends with the women
of the colony; the wives and mothers of
the Irish miners. They lived in rows of
cottages amidst the great wheels, and
sheds, and chimneys of a copper mine ;
a dusty, arid land, as great a contrast
to their own green country as can be
imagined. These cottages, in point of
comfort, compared not unfavourably with
those of their Cornish fellow-workmen ; in
fact, they were hardly to be distinguished,
except by a coloured print of the Blessed
Virgin or Saint Patrick hanging on the
wall, or an image or a crucifix on a
shelf.

About a mile from the mine was a
Woman Catholic church, a grey and simple
building of granite. Hard by it was the

bouse of the Irish priest, with a pretty
garden in front, full of roses in summer,
and a little conservatory, bright with
geraniums all the year round.

Here lived the Reverend Laurence
]\IcHale, spiritual ruler over the scattered
Catholic population of a wide district,
stretching from St. Agnes' Beacon to the
Lizard. He was a man in the prime of
life, with a powerful, genial face, and an
air of overflowing health, energy, and high
spirits. He had distinguished himself at
Maynooth, and so, young as he was, he
had been appointed to an important, and.
as it afterwards proved to be, a dangerous
post. As for his political opinions, he was
as ardent a Nationalist as Archbishop
Broke, and this alone would have endeared
him to the Irish colony of Sardinian,

over whom be reigned as a benevolent
despot, kindly, sympathetic, imperious ;
whilst the English Roman Catholics in his
district regarded him with that peculiar
sourness and suspicion which they are in
the habit of showing their co-religionists
of the sister island.

One day Cecilia Tremayne had met
Father McHale in a cottage, and she had
introduced herself to him, somewhat shyly,
as befitted an Englishwoman, and a double-dyed
heretic as she was. But her mere
mention of Mrs. Rivers' name, and the
names of one or two well-known Irishmen
whom Cecilia had met at her house in
London, was a sufficient passport, and
Father McHale gave her the most hearty
and hospitable welcome.

Sympathy with the Irish national cause

Cecilia found an ' open sesame ' to the
hearts of both priest and people. These
newly-made acquaintances at Cardinham
were far more responsive to her than
Maurice O'O'Donovan had ever been. Perhaps
as the people of this Irish colony had
lived for some years in England, the sufferings
of their country had by degrees become
to them a matter of faith rather
than of sight. Certainly to the Irishman
who has made his home in England, as
well as to the Englishman who has done
the same in Ireland, there generally comes
a better understanding of the people
around him, and more or less of a liking
for them.

This then became the most vivid interest
in Cecilia's monotonous and lonely life  to
spend a few hours at Cardinham, to read

United Ireland aloud to some old people,
to look in at the school-room, where the
Irish mistress taught the history of their
country to the bright-eyed, keen-witted
children, to hear their youthful voices sing
 God save Ireland,' to have a few minutes
talk with the priest about the tragic and
heart-stirring events of the clay, in his
scholarly little sitting-room, full of books
and newspapers, flowers and engravings.

Meantime Mrs. Tremayne was bewildered
; she even became a little jealous.
She felt once more, what she had by degrees
almost forgotten, that Cecilia lived
in a widely-separated world from her own,
and had interests, aims, opinions, which
made the mother feel that the daughter
was further apart from her than was her
friend Mrs. Bosustow.

Do you think, Cecilia,' Mrs. Tremayne
began, rather timidly, * that you are quite
wise in having any acquaintance with a
Roman Catholic priest? They are such
clever, dangerous sort of people. Certainly
I have never seen in you any leaning
towards Popish errors, but you may get
converted without knowing it, I guess.'

Cecilia smiled a little bitterly.

I am afraid, mother, I should only
make matters worse if I told you what I
really believe  that there is no logical
resting-place between Rome and Rationalism.'


Mrs. Tremayne looked bewildered, and
Cecilia went on, with that sort of desperation
which sometimes seizes us when we
know it is impossible to make ourselves
understood.

1 They say that we are entirely changed
every seven years  that is to say, every
particle of flesh and blood and bone in us
will be different this day seven years from
what it is now. Well, I could not become
a Roman Catholic before seven years from
this date, so that it is a long time to look
forward to ; and rest content, meantime,
mother, that what Father McHale and I
talk about are politics, and not religion.'

Still he is a priest,' said Mrs.Tremayne,
thoroughly mystified by her daughter's
explanation.

'Yes, and I like a priest to be a priest.
If such people are to exist, let them be
real and genuine, with magnificent traditions,
and a grand old historic pedigree,
unadulterated by any Anglican make-believes.'
Then Cecilia added, with a sudden.

gravity which over-awed Mrs. Tree
' Remember, mother, I have given
up my friends at Morwell ; I cannot also
give up my friends at Cardinham.'

The mother and daughter were sauntering
up and down the esplanade one
evening in the early spring of 1S82.
Often, when their day's work was done,
they would leave their tree and flower-surrounded
cottage to walk by the seashore,
to breathe the fresh salt air, to look
upon the wide expanse of the bay.

Tell me, mother,' said Cecilia  a sharp
pang had contracted her heart as she
remembered all that she had given up,
and wondered if the, sacrifice had been of
any avail  ; tell me, does your life here
give you any happiness ?  do you ever
regret having left Mrs. Rivers' house ?'

'Why, my clear child,' cried Mrs. Tree
 I am as happy as the day is long.
What could I want that I haven't got ?
A dear, sweet daughter like yourself, work
to do that is just what I like  I should
never have been happy in idleness, I
should never have made a fine lady, I
guess  and a kind friend like Mrs. Bosus-
tow and one or two others  well, what
with one thing and another, I am happy
here as I was at Westonville, and I can't
say more than that, can I ? And as for
Mrs. Rivers, she was the kindest mistress
in the world ; but I am my own mistress
now, and that is better still ; and it's allowing
to you, dear, that I am so happy,
for I should never have had the courage
to go into the flower-growing business by
myself, I guess ; and now, you see, it is

paying better than ever, and I have got
the work so under my hand, as I may say,
that you can go and visit your friends
when you want a little holiday ; I can
manage it by myself when you are away.'

Mrs. Tremayne paused to take breath,
and Cecilia laid her hand affectionately on
her mother's arm, and said,

And have I, ever so little, made up to
you, for all you suffered on my account
when I was a child ?'

1 To be sure you have, my dear, over andover
again. Oughtn't I to be proud and
happy to have such a daughter  and me
only a poor servant ? and you are a great
deal more to me than I could ever have
thought you would have been, you're a
real, kind daughter, as well as an elegant
lady.'

VOL. III. Q

Cecilia answered, softly,

I am very glad, mother ;' and then she
thought, 'After all, I have not lived
wholly in vain, I have given my mother
happiness, though I have so little myself.
I have atoned to her for the wrong which
was done her, I have borne the penalty on
my own head.'

Mrs. Tremayne left her for a minute, to
call at 25, Marine Terrace, and to return
a borrowed novel to Mrs. Bosustow.
Cecilia paced slowly along the deserted
promenade. The newly-risen moon shed
a mellow lustre on the tranquil sea, on the
long stretch of wet and shining sands left
bare by the ebbing tide. The shores of
the bay slept softly dark, a light glimmered
here and there from an anchored
vessel ; all was hushed, wind and waves,
and the tumult and hurry of life.

It was Cecilia's last night at Penzance,
though she little knew ifc. She looked at
the long line of tremulous gold beneath the
moon, it seemed so like a blessed pathway
from this weary, woeful world to ' seas of
heavenly rest.' Soon she would be forgotten,
soon the life whose brightness she
had sacrificed that she might right a wrong
would be over ; and her unreciprocated
love, her futile ambitions, her defeated
hopes of playing a part in the great
struggle which she watched afar off from
day to day  all would be as the dust of
death. But somewhere iu the universe
there was peace  yes, c abundant peace so
long as the moon endure.'

There arose iu her that wild wish which
is in the heart of so many tired and careworn
human beings, but which the long

Q2

accumulated force of religious beliefs, of
social bonds, forbids the parched and
weary lips to utter : ' Give us rest  the
eternal rest of ceasing to be ! And not
upon us lay the intolerable burden of
immortality !'

CHAPTER IX.

FOR IRELAND.

Tip] following morning, when Cecilia unfolded
the Western Morning Neivs, which
always arrived at breakfast time, these
words amongst the telegrams pierced her
like a bullet :

1 Arrest of Maurice O'O'Donovan, the
notorious Fenian.'

She stood staring at the paper, in that
utter incredulity with which nature breaks

to us the force of every crushing blow.
Then she turned cold and sick, a sound of
rushing water was in her ears  the paper
dropped from her hands, but with a violent
effort she forced herself to take
it up again, and to read the whole paragraph.


'Maurice O'O'Donovan, who some time
since was released from Dartmoor prison
on a ticket-of-leave, was arrested last night
at Liverpool, a few days after he had landed
from New York, on the charge of having
neglected to observe the conditions on
which his ticket-of-leave was granted.
He will probably be sent back to Dartmoor
to serve the unexpired remainder of
his sentence. '

Cecilia turned over the newspaper, to
see if she could find any other mention

of Maurice O'O'Donovan's name. But she
discovered nothing, except a short leading
article  a savage howl of joy over the
arrest of the ' notorious Fenian and Land
Leaguer.'

The post had brought Cecilia a copy
of the last number of the Dublin Nation.
In it she found an account of a great
meeting of Irishmen at Liverpool, at which
Maurice had been one of the speakers,
the day after his landing from America.
And the Nation had given a verbatim
report of his speech, an eloquent appeal to
his countrymen.

'Courage! Steadiness! Perseverance!
No passion, no panic, but unflinching
determination. These should now be the
watchwords of the Irish people.

For every generation of Irishmen born

under English rule there comes a critical
moment, a time of trial; their behaviour
in which shapes the fortunes of their
country for many years.

1 Such a time is now upon us. The
testing hour has come for the generation
that to-day tread the soil of Ireland.

1 They have to show whether the spirit
of patriotism, of daring, of sacrifice, and
all the high qualities that prove a people
fit for freedom, exist among them.

They have to show a firm front to the
enemy, to preserve unbroken their national
union, to love each other like brothers, and
to be ready, every man, to fill up any gap
that may be made in the ranks.

1 So organised, so united, so determined,
if they act on the lines of Irish patriotism,
with which they are familiar, they will be

invincible. A time of trial, and sacrifice,
and suffering they may have, but they will
come out of it with honour, and they will
gain for their country advantages which
cannot be taken from her, and a glory
which will never fade.'

Afterwards, he said, with some bitterness,


1 We have of late been hearing much
of the new-born sympathy in England
with the sufferings of Ireland, and of the
desire of Englishmen to make amends
for those sufferings ; but now, when
the time has come to test the value
of that sympathy and that desire, we
see that both are as unsubstantial as a
dream.'

Then he quoted the lines of the poet-daughter
of Smith O'Brien 

< For 'tis better, oh ! 'tis better, that we suffer from our
own,
Though the cloud of auger lours,
Thou, our country ! still art ours 
Still art ours, though brothers hate us 
Still art ours, though death await us 
Xow we trust our own men  our own men alone.'

How those last words went to Cecilia's
heart ! There breathed in them the very
spirit with which Maurice had always met
the sympathy she offered for his national
cause.

This, then, was all she knew  that, the
day after he had made that speech at
Liverpool, he had been arrested, and sent
back to penal servitude. There was no
word from Kathleen Rivers ; in fact, there
had not yet been time for Cecilia to receive
a letter from her since her brother's
arrest.

Sick, bewildered, racked with pain that
seemed physical, Cecilia tried to greet her
mother as usual, when she came down to
breakfast, even to listen to her as she
talked. But the effort was too much for
her.

'My dear, what is the matter? How
ill you look this morning !' cried Mrs.
Tremayne, dismayed at Cecilia's white face
of anguish.

'I have had bad news about  about a
friend,' she answered, in a broken voice.
f I am not ill.'

Mrs. Tremayne was comforted. So
long as there was nothing the matter
with Cecilia herself, little else signified.


After breakfast Cecilia said, abruptly,

Mother, I must go to Cardinham this

morning ; I must see Father McHale.
Don't wait for me.'

Ob, my dear ! and there are all those
hyacinths and arum lilies to cut and pack
for Mrs. Rivers' dinner-party tomorrow !'

'Mrs. Rivers' dinner-party!' Cecilia
gave a little wild laugh. ' Mrs. Rivers
will not want them now. Her brother has
been sent to prison.'

Cecilia left the room without another
word, leaving her mother speechless with
horror and amazement. To think that
Mrs. Rivers' brother  to think that any
gentleman she had known  should be sent
to prison ! What could he have done ?
She knew nothing of the antecedents of
Mr. O'O'Donovan, whom she had often waited
upon at Morwell Lodge, but supposed
only that they were much the same as

those of any other gentleman. And why
should Cecilia want to go to Cardinham
this morning of all others ? It was most
unlike her to neglect her work to go
pleasuring.

But no gentle expostulation, no hints
that other people in London were expecting
boxes of flowers tomorrow morning,
if Mrs. Rivers did not, availed Mrs. Tree
now. Cecilia was like one whom
a dreadful flash of lightning had stunned,
deafened, and half-blinded.

It is no use, mother ; go to Cardinham
I must. I cannot care about anything
else just now ;' and so, with a look on her
white, set face that her mother never
forgot, Cecilia departed to Penzance railway
station.

She had no exact purpose in thus betaking

herself to the Irish colony. There
was nothing she could do, there was nothing
anyone could do, to help Maurice
O'O'Donovan now. But her supreme need
of meeting some one who believed as
Maurice did, some one who thought and
suffered somewhat as she herself did, with
whom she could exchange words of sympathy
in this dark hour, drove her irresistibly
to seek Father McHale.

I must see him,' she thought, ' I shall
go mad if I have to keep silence to-day.'

But when she alighted from the train at
Cardinham, such a sick shuddering seized
upon her that she felt she could not face
the priest until she had had a few moments
in which to calm herself. The
little Catholic church was but a stone's
throw from the railway-station, the church

door stood open as usual ; she went into
the dim twilight within, knelt down and
rested her trembling forehead on the back
of one of the seats.

Her whole soul went forth in one wild
cry.

1 Oh, Maurice  Maurice  would to God
I could die for you ! Oh, that my useless
life could be taken, and you  you, my hero,
my love, could be given back to your
country  your country which is in such
sore need of you !'

She never knew how long she had knelt
there, but presently there were firm footsteps
coming down the aisle of the church,
and a voice, which at the first moment she
did not recognise, for it was changed and
somewhat harsh with strong excitement 
a voice cried,

Miss Trernayne, you here ! Let me
beg you to go back to Penzance immediately,
there is a train in ten minutes' time.
Go back at once, while you can

< What is it, Father McHale?' Cecilia
raised herself, and glanced with a dull
surprise at the priest's face ; pale and
stern it looked, with all the geniality fled,
and fire flashing from his eyes.

c You have not heard, then ? No, or of
course you would not have remained here.
The whole town is in an uproar. Two days
ago, Tim Molloy quarrelled with and beat
a Cornishman  I am not denying Tim was
most in fault, drunken rascal that he is 
well, he has been taken up by the police,
and the magistrates are trying him at this
very minute; but all the Cornishmen at
the mines here swear that if the magistrates

let him off lightly they will have
some Irishman's blood for it. Anyhow,
they say they will wreck our church and
every Irishman's house in the place. I
have warned our people, and all that can
get away are running to the moor for
their lives, and now this is my post, aucl
I must defend the church as well as one
man can ; the police seem powerless.
So you see, Miss Tremayne, you are
not safe here ; and now go back to the
railway-station without a moment's loss of
time.'

'No,' answered Cecilia, a strange passion
lighting up her face, 'if my countrymen,
my fellow-Cornishmen are going to disgrace
themselves, all the more reason that
I should remain here, to do what I can for
your people. I will go up to the cottages

VOL. III. K

at the mine at once, to see if they have all
got away safely.'

They can't, all of them, get away, that
is certain. There is Pat Daly, now  the
Cornishmen are ready to kill him, because
they say he, as well as Molloy, set upon
the Cornishman ; but that I'll not believe.
Anyhow, I bade him go and hide himself,
though he had to leave his wife and children
at home. Sure, the Cornishmen will
never hurt a woman with her baby only
two days old, and a little crippled girl.'

1 will go to them at once,' answered
Cecilia, her resolution taken.

Go, then, in God's name,' said the
priest, ' it may be that He sent you here
to-day, and I'll not hinder you, Miss Tree
; I know how your brave heart has
longed to do something for our people.

You will not be molested on the road, the
miners are all round the town-hall now,
waiting to hear the magistrates' decision.
Go, and may all the saints defend you !'

Father McHale held out his hand, and
met Cecilia's in one solemn clasp. She
hurried out of the doomed church ; she
heard the door shut, and the key turned
behind her. Then the priest, one man
against hundreds, went up the altar steps,
and knelt in silent prayer.

Out of doors was a cold, clear April day ;
a keen wind blew from the east, the furze
bushes were a mass of golden bloom against
the bright, blue sky ; a lark sometimes
mounted with a brief burst of song. There
was as yet no menace of the coming struggle,
no human being was in view, as
Cecilia hastened up the dusty road which

b 2

led to the mine. Once or twice sbe paused,
looked back towards the town, and listened
with beating heart. But the wind
blew away from her whatever sound of
distant tumult there might have been, and
Cecilia went on again at her utmost speed,
until there rose before her the gaunt
wheels and sheds of the mine, to-day all
idle and deserted.

The cottages of the Irish miners were
most of them shut up and empty; the
owners had locked their doors and fled to
the granite hills which rise above the town
of Cardinham. Men, women, and children
leaving: their homes and their little household
property to the mercy of their
Cornish enemies, slept that night and the
next on the bare ground that bitter April
weather.

But round one or two doorways stood
those who had been left behind  non-combatants
in very truth. An old woman,
nearly blind, with a shawl over her head,
and an old man whose joints were stiff
with rheumatism, peered forth from their
thresholds, trembling, fearing they knew
not what, for all was silent, all seemed at
peace in the spring sunshine.

Cecilia, almost breathless with excitement
and with the rapid pace at which
she had come, managed to give them a
cheery greeting.

'Don't be frightened; we don't know
that the men are coming, and, if they do,
I am sure they won't hurt you. Now go
indoors and sit by the fire, there's a good
soul; this cold wind is very bad for your
rheumatism.'

With feeble, quavering voices the old
people began telling Miss Tremayne how
their sons and grandsons had fled to the
moor to save their lives, and then the old
woman sat down by the peat-fire, and
began rocking herself to and fro with an
Irish lament. Hard indeed it seemed to
have left these feeble folk defenceless, yet
Cecilia could not but see the wisdom of
the bread-winners of the different families
against whom all the wrath of the
Cornishmen was directed  escaping when
they could, hopelessly out-numbered as
they were.

She went on to the house which was
most in peril  that of Pat Daly. She
pushed the door open, there was no one
in the little kitchen ; she ascended the
steep and narrow staircase, and softly

entered the room above. There, on a
rickety wooden bedstead, her deadly-white
face turned to the wall and half hidden by
the patchwork counterpane, lay a young
woman, a baby two days old clasped to
her bosom. Huddled against the wall,
her eyes and mouth wide open, half dazed
with terror, was a little girl, crippled from
her birth. These were the wife and
children of Pat Daly, the man whose blood
the Cornishmen had sworn to have.

Cecilia's heart was wrung at this piteous
sight, and she did her best to comfort Mrs.
Daly, though it was hard to inspire her
with a confidence which she hardly felt
herself.

1 Father McHale thinks your husband is
quite safe, and that you and the children
have nothing to fear.'

Mrs. Daly revived a little at hearing
Cecilia's tenderly-spoken words.

Sure, the Holy Virgin herself has sent
you to me, dear lady.'

But Cecilia found it impossible to
remain long with Mrs. Daly, for the
window of the bed-room looked towards
the moor, and she must fix her eyes on
the road leading from the town. So,
promising she would go no further away
than the doorway of the house, she went
downstairs and stood waiting, listening,
watching the long stretch of empty, dusty
road.

There was something very terrible in
this suspense, like the breathless stillness
before the thunderstorm. What was going
on in the town of Cardigan, a mile
away ? Were the mob dispersing, their

fury appeased by a severe sentence passed
upon Tim Molloy, the original sinner?
were they attacking the church ? was Father
McHale's life in danger ?

Presently she fancied she heard sounds
afar off, confused shouts, dull and heavy
thuds, the crash of glass. She strained
her ears to listen, but the tantalizing wind
swept past her with a swirl of dust, carrying
away the sound.

But now down the road the dust was
rising in a cloud  yes, and the cloud was
coming towards her against the wind. It
came on and on ; then dark figures were
visible behind it, a thick mass of advancing
men, a mass that was wavering continually
in form like a disorderly army.

They are coming at last !'

Cecilia drew a deep breath, almost with

a sense of relief, after that long sickening-suspense
; very soon now she should know
the worst. Her heart bounded with a
wild thought though she could not suffer
for Maurice, yet now perhaps she was going
to suffer with hin. Then every nerve,
every faculty was strung up to its highest
pitch, to that calmness which is the very
intensity and white heat of passion.

Now she could clearly discern the faces
of the men who were coming towards herat
a swinging pace. Their clothes were
white with dust ; dust circled round them
like smoke. Most of them had stout sticks
in their hands, and the coat pockets of
some bulged out with stones ; they came
on with an irregular tramp of heavy footsteps,
and hoarse, half-articulate shouts
and murmurs ; their faces were glaring

and distorted with that rage which, when
it seizes on a crowd, is like madness or
fire, or any other unreasoning and devastating
force. With their keen, nervous
features and dark eyes ablaze with passion,
these miners looked not unlike
French ouvriers, when barricades were
raised in the streets of Paris.

'And these are Cornishmen !' thought
Cecilia, with shame and anguish. ' Ob, for
some quite other Cornishmen  ob, for a
dozen of the sober, stalwart fishermen of
St. Ives to stand by these helpless people,
and to shame their countrymen !'

They were close upon Cecilia now, the
leaders  if indeed there were any leaders
of that disorderly throng  stopped short
before Pat Daly's house, and all round the
cottages swarmed the furious, clamorous

men, and as a sort of diversion from their
more serious business, they flung handfuls
of stones at the windows, and a crashing
of glass and crockery went on in half-a-dozen
houses along the row.

4 Here, stand out of the way, missus,'
said one of the miners, going up to Cecilia
with a threatening face. ' We want Pat
Daly, and we'll have him too !' and thereupon
rose a chorus of threats and curses
from the other men.

Cecilia stood firm in the doorway*.

Pat Daly is not here,' she answered, ina
distinct, unfaltering tone. ' There is no
one in this house but a woman and two
children.'

1 Get out of that ! Don't tell us any of
your damned lies ! We'll soon see if he is
here or not !' cried the rioters, as they

poured into the house, and Cecilia fell
back before them, as before a rushing
torrent. She retreated to the staircase,
which led straight from the kitchen to
Mrs. Daly's bed-room above  she mounted
a few steps, and then, having thus gained
a momentary advantage, she spoke in a
clear, ringing voice, which rose above the
tumult, whilst the miners pushed one
another into the house, crowded round the
doorway, and glared in at the windows.

'Cornishmen ! I am a Cornish woman,
listen to what I have to say ! I declare to
you upon my honour  I will take a solemn
oath, if you wish it  there is no one upstairs
but a sick woman with a baby two
days old, and a little crippled girl. Tf you
don't go away, you will kill them with
fright. Think of your wives and children

at home ! Cornishmen, listen to me ; stand
by me, One and All !'

For a moment her cause was gained,
won by her courage, by their belief in her
speaking the truth, by her calling upon
them with their own historic, rallying cry.
The wild, fierce faces upturned in amazement
to the tall, fair young woman, who
looked almost unearthly in that moment,
her eyes flashing, her face deadly pale, but
luminous with enthusiasm.

The men wavered ; in another minute
they would have left the house, but one
burly, grimy man shouldered his way
through the rest to the foot of the staircase.


c I ain't a Cornishman anyhow, and I
ain't a-going to be 'umbugged like that.
Hold your jaw, and get out of the way,

you  ' and with foul and hideous words
he dashed up the stairs. ' Here goes for
Pat Daly !' and, ashamed of their momentary
hesitation, the other men began to
follow him.

Cecilia retreated before them to the
head of the stairs ; her one thought was :

If I can but keep them from entering
her room, Mrs. Daly may yet be saved.'

With a force that no one would have
believed possible to her slight and still
girlish figure, she for one moment tried,
with outstretched hands, to push back the
loathsome leader of the gang who had
attacked the staircase. It was only for
one moment  there was a sound of cracking,
rending wood, the rickety hand-rail
broke as she was thrust against it  then,
with a faint cry and a dull crash, Cecilia

fell down upon the stone floor below, and
lay motionless, with w T lite, upturned face
and closed eyes. As though the house
had been struck by a thunderbolt  there
was sudden silence, and every man stood
still.

'You've done for the young woman,
Jackson !' and one of the Cornish miners
cursed the east-countryman who had been
the first to mount the stairs.

1 Here, let's get out of this, there'll bethe
devil to pay for this day's work ; she
ain't of them damned Irish '

With one of those sudden and unreasoning
panics to which a mob is always
liable, the miners rushed out of
Pafc Daly's cottage again.

1 Come along, men,' they shouted to
those who were amusing themselves in

smashing the few remaining window-panes
in the row of houses. * Come along, men ;
we shall have the police after us, if we
don't look sharp !'

In a few minutes the throng of miners
had dispersed  melted away like a snowball.
Some of them, the more cowardly, fled
to their homes amongst the mines ; others
returned to the town, to crowd into the
public-houses. The few old men, and
women, and children, who had been praying
wildly to the Virgin and all the saints,
and crouching before the hail of stones
which poured through their broken windows,
could breathe freely again ; not one
of their assailants was left in sight. And
so ended one of those obscure ' outrages
which are barely mentioned in the newspapers
 though they are ready to fill a

VOL. III. s

column with records of Irish crime  but
which leave a legacy of bitter hatred between
race and race, and will be remembered
for generations to come in some
humble cottage homes.

A quarter-of-an-hour afterwards, the
Rev. Laurence McHale was coming up
the road to the mine as swiftly as his
powerful limbs would carry him. The
mob had broken open the door of the
Catholic church; had smashed the painted
windows ; had wrecked pictures and images,
and battered the organ with stones.
Then they had wreaked their vengeance
on the priest's house close by. They had
broken every pane of glass in his little conservatory
; had torn up his rose-trees, and
trampled down his flower-beds; and had
disported themselves generally after the

fashion of an English mob, inflamed with
Protestantism, patriotism, and beer. They
were all gone now, and, in anxiety for
the fate of the few defenceless people at
the mine, and perhaps above all for Cecilia
Tremayne, whom he had despatched on
a dangerous mission, Father McHale 
who had been cut and bruised, but not
seriously hurt, by the stones flung at him
burst into Pat Daly's house.

With a cry of horror, he found Cecilia
lying prostrate and insensible on the floor,
the broken hand-rail of the stairs above
her telling its own tale of a desperate
struggle. He fell on his knees beside
her; he seized her wrist; he could just
feel a faint pulse fluttering there. Then,
raising his head, he looked hurriedly and
anxiously round the room. On a shelf

c2

there stood a black bottle of Irish whisky.
Pat Daly might have been better without
it, but the priest hailed the sight of it
now. Starting up, he searched, and found
a spoon, and then, bending over Cecilia
again, he tried to force a few drops of
whisky between her clenched teeth.

Sure, she is only fainting !' and, putting
his arm beneath her shoulders, he raised
her a little from the stone floor. But
she moaned piteously, and, with the utmost
gentleness, he laid her down again.

He went out, and rapped impatiently
at one of the neighbouring doors.

'Is anyone here? It is I  Father
McHale. Open the door V he cried, ina
commanding tone ; for it was barricaded
by a table, which one old woman,
by some violent effort, had dragged against
it within.

Presently the priest returned with a
pillow, which he managed to place beneath
Cecilia's head. The old woman followed
him, trembling, wringing her hands, muttering
words in the Irish language.

I dare not attempt to move her
thought the priest, looking down at Cecilia
in anguish and perplexity. ' I must
leave her with Biddy Nolan, and go to
fetch a doctor.'

At that moment Father McHale heard
a sound of wheels, and, rushing to the
door, he saw a baker's cart, the man pursuing
his useful daily round quite stolid
and undisturbed. Riots and stone-throwing,
a few broken heads and windows,
were not at all uncommon at Cardinham.
In a few hurried words the priest explained
what urgent need there was fora
doctor, and he succeeded in arousing

some pity and interest in the man's mind.

I'll have Dr. Jennings here in a liffey ;'
and the baker jumped up into his cart and
drove off at a gallop.

Then Father McHale mounted the stairs
to assure himself of the safety of Mrs.
Daly and her children. Finding them not
much the worse for their fright, he said a
few kind and consoling words, and then,
leaving them in the care of old Mrs.
Nolan, he returned to Cecilia, and forced
a little more spirit down her throat.

Presently he had the joy of seeing the
large grey eyes unclose and look up into
his face with dawning consciousness.

 Are they safe ?' she asked, faintly.

Yes, Mrs. Daly and the children are
safe, and the riot is over. Tell me, my
dear lady, how do you feel ? Are you
much hurt ?'

But Cecilia's eyes had closed again, and
she made no reply.

For nearly half-an-hour there was silence
in the room, broken only by the
low and fervent voice of the priest, as he
murmured words of prayer. He knelt on,
holding Cecilia's hand in one of his, in
the other he clasped a crucifix. Did she
hear and understand him ? He never
knew.

She was dying there, on the stone floor
of a humble Irish cottage, far away from
all her kindred, no one but a comparative
stranger, a man of another race and
creed, to receive her last breath. She was
dying as she had lived  a silent, lonely,
woman.

Again her white lips moved.

My mother  you will tell her?'

Shall I telegraph to her to come to

you ?' he asked, eager for a chance of
serving her.

Too late !' she whispered ; and then
once more she seemed to lose consciousness.

Oh ! why is the doctor so long incoming?'
he thought, in anguish, for it
seemed to have been hours that he had
been watching helplessly beside Cecilia.
All that he could do was to give her a
few drops of spirit from time to time, to
pass his handkerchief gently over her forehead,
on which a cold dew was gathering.
And now it seemed to him that her features
were changing, growing fearfully
pale and sunken, and he prayed on and
on, as if in an agony.

Speak to me, dear Miss Tremayne.
Say just one word. Tell me, do you know
me?'

But she made no answer.

J

1 Ob, God !' cried the priest, in a heartrending
tone, ; why did I let her come
here? Not a soul is hurt but this poor
Englishwoman.'

Perhaps through Cecilia's confused and
failing mind there passed a vague remembrance
of some of the last words spoken
to her by the man she had loved so passionately,
' You are with us, but you are
not of us, and you never can be.'

Suddenly a strange radiance gleamed
over Cecilia's face. With that momentary
flash of light and strength which sometimes
comes at the last moment before
death, she opened her eyes, and looked up
with a glory of joy and triumph, and
whispered,

Tell Maurice O'O'Donovan  I died for
Ireland  after all '

Her eyes closed, there was a faint sigh,

a faint struggle, and then  Cecilia Tree
was dead.

They laid her in the churchyard of St.
Mary's, Penzance, the churchyard which
overlooks the sea. The grey dawn spreading
above the long, low coast or the
eastern shores of Mount's Bay, glimmers
on the simple headstone of slate which
marks her grave, and on these words
engraved below her name,

'Until the day breaks, and the shadows
flee away.'

