Chapter I.

It was a morning in the last week of August ; we

dare not say how many years ago. A steamer lay at

Ostend waiting for its passengers. Already a carriage

an English carriage  had been lowered on board ; a

courier lounged beside it. The steamer, if all went

well, would be in Dover Harbour by evening or before.

It was not an inviting morning ; the sea was rough,

the wind wailed. Those who were at liberty to choose

the day  the timid, the nervous, the discreet  would

 defer the pleasure of crossing. Thus there were not so

 many passengers as is usual at this travelling season of

| the year. The last passenger who came on board was

| the owner of the carriage ; he came attended by a

dainty-looking French valet, this very supercilious

t looking gentleman following his master with cloak,

rug, and dressing-case.

Half-past ten, the hour, or rather the time, announced
for leaving Ostend, had arrived. The bell
j giving such notice was duly rung, and the steamer
- presently was out at sea. Eor a time matters went
5 on much as usual. Every now and then you missed a

VOL. I. A

passenger from amid the little throng on deck. He or
she had silently stolen away, had descended to the
gentlemen's or to the ladies' cabin below, ashamed of
exhibiting en plein jour, en plein midi, a state of feeling,
a state of health, sensations so unbecoming. At
length but one solitary passenger of the better class
was left on deck, and he the man we have already
indicated as the owner of the English carriage.

He sat gazing with perfect sang-froid on the giant
w r aves, or paced to and fro in apathetic sadness. He
was a man perhaps nearly fifty, rather gaunt or attenuated,
very pale, or perhaps we should say very
sallow. His eyes, if ever they had had any, had lost
their spirit and their lustre ; yet were they fine eyes,
still long-shaped, deep-coloured ; his brows were dark,
his face, if not handsome, was interesting. You saw
indications in it of feeling, of refinement, of suffering.
He evidently was not in robust health, or fancied himself
an invalid.

He looked as supremely indifferent to every trifling
occurrence passing around him as it was possible for
man to look, and you saw that this was not an
affected indifference ; he had an air of abstraction,
and his manner was most unobtrusive. His valet and
his courier gave themselves much greater airs than he.
By their consequential manner they endeavoured to
make up for the lack of pretension in Sir Charles.
Until the valet had begun to feel a little poorly, his
every movement had seemed to say, " Do you comprehend
what a great man is my master ? " Poor Sir Charles !
He was a great man if wealth, if landed property, if

the title of baronet could make him so. Prosperity
had, as it were, been thrust upon him ; two fortunes
had he fallen into. The second estate only a few years
before had come to him, bringing with it the title of
baronet. " Why did not my poor cousin live to enjoy
what to me is almost worthless ? " mused Charles
Daubigny, when the mournful, or, as some would have
deemed it, the joyful, intelligence was first reported to
him. " Why," continued he, " why in Heaven's name
must the fool throw away his life?"

But Sir Alfred must needs throw away his life. He
must needs, despite of two several warnings, ride his
last steeplechase. A broken rib, a fractured arm had
not sufficed to deter. He was determined to make
Charles Daubigny a baronet ; and here is Sir Charles,
his reluctant successor, pacing the deck of the Belgian
steamer this stormy August day, feeling how worthless
is fortune when the soul is dressed in sorrow.

Charles Daubigny was a man governed by imagina-memory,
intense feeling, counteracted, annihilated
all the blessings fortune had bestowed. Or shall
we admit, as he ofttimes mused, that fortune had
mocked him, had sported with his woe ?

Once  once how precious had been the gifts the
fitful goddess since had lavished upon him. Yes,
at the time he had so coveted, and had been denied,
the hand of Helene Yane ; when her fair form had
risen before him in the dreams of night, when it had
been his waking joy.

But he was poor then, a briefless barrister, and
none could foresee the freaks fortune would play.

And so Helene jested about his offer, asked how
they were to live ; and after flirting with him unmercifully,
had married a rich old banker, from whom
alas to tell !  she had fled at the invitation of a
lover handsomer than herself, haughtier than herself
;  at the invitation of the man she had always
secretly preferred, but of whose admiration she had
been unconscious till it was sin to confess how
precious it was to her. Ah, this hapless pair, how
had they fallen now ! She to her mother earth like a
leaf that sinks on the dewy ground to undergo a
premature decay ; he, like a leaf fallen too, but
denied her rest ; he like the leaf drifting onwards in
life's tempest still. The sinner, the seducer was a
second cousin of our man of imagination ; but though
they were relations, Charles Daubigny knew not
where his hapless rival sojourned at this time. And
do we not all lose sight of our second cousins, and of
our nearer cousins too, especially when wasted means,
when deserved misfortunes lead them to withdraw
from the notice of too curious eyes? And they had
been separated by deeper feeling. Yes, for fourteen
years Charles Daubigny had kept aloof from the man
who had brought ruin and disgrace on his early love.
And now, this stormy summer day, Charles Daubigny
paces the deck, looks on the mighty waves as tljey
roll towards him, listens to the wail of the wind, and
still, still Helene Vane, though false and sinful in
her life, though mouldering in her foreign grave, still,
still she lives in his memory to mar all the blessings
Heaven has bestowed. To the melancholy

infatuation that overshadowed or that incessantly pursued
Sir Charles, must be attributed the satisfaction he
feels as the rising wind utters its ceaseless planning, or
again and again breaks forth into louder tones of
sorrow.

Yes, in nature's plaintive or impassioned accents
there was consonance, harmony with his state of feeling.
And when, as presently it did, the thunder distant
rolled, the waves grew mightier still, the late lacklustre
eyes that gazed were spiritless no more, the
excitement of the moment had restored something of
our poor friend's early youth. Charles Daubigny, hailing,
welcoming nature's distraction, might be deemed
almost a handsome man. He had been in his listlessness
as the unlighted lamp. The spirit stirred, quickened
within, and the light shone forth now as shines a
light through a frosted glass.

But, as may be supposed, these tokens of a coming
storm, however congenial to his state of feeling, must
be an annoyance to every one else on board.

It was presently rumoured, too, that the vessel was
not considered in a fitting condition to encounter such
rough weather ; and her Flemish captain, craven or
wise, we presume not to say which, gave out that he
should forthwith run her into Dunkirk Harbour instead
of proceeding on his way to Dover.

My reader will be able to imagine the excitement
that prevailed : the joy, the relief of some timid ones ;
the rage, the impatience of others, bolder, or whose
time was perhaps almost precious as life itself.

Happily we shall say, for prudence surely is ever the

\

%

best guide, happily the cautious captain succeeded
in his endeavour ; Dunkirk was gained, and presently
the vessel lay in safety and at rest.

The next thing to be considered was what the passengers
should do for sustenance through the weary hours
to follow. The steamer was not provided with food,
nor tea, coffee, or bottled beer. There was absolutely
nothing on board fit for a lady or a gentleman, or a fastidious
valet or a high-priced courier to partake of.
Such an emergency had not been looked for. The
captain suggested that it would be quite easy and much
better for the passengers at once to land and seek
refreshments in Dunkirk. They need not return until
nine or ten o'clock at night.

Hereupon was a great deal of bustle and activity.
Even the stewardess was glad to avail herself of the
captain's permission. She had friends in Dunkirk;
slit would make a jaunt ashore.

Now come we to Sir Charles. He positively declined
scrambling into a boat and landing at Dunkirk.

He recollected that in his carriage was a box of
biscuits, a flask of brandy, and a bottle of soda water.
He could subsist on these. But for his dainty valet,
his dashing courier? He enjoined the twain to go
ashore, stretch their legs, get their supper or their dinner
(whichever they might choose to term it), and then
return to the steamer, bringing with them a further
supply of biscuits and a bottle of vin ordinaire for their
master's use in case of need. Thus careless of eating,
or thus without appetite, was our man of wealth.

One man and one poor boy were left in charge of



the steamer ; the rest of the crew had gone off with the
stewardess and the passengers to Dunkirk. Charles
Daubigny believed himself to be the only person onboard
save these two. After so much confusion, how
welcome to him was the silence, the absence of the
many voices.

The man and the boy scarcely spoke  they were
very quiet. Poor creatures, they were glad of a little
rest.

As the afternoon departed, as the cloudy evening,
dim with mist, approached, our man of imagination
slowly and sadly paced the deck. He listened to the
piteous sighing of the wind, to the subdued, because
now more distant, sound of the roaring, rushing waves.
These were sounds that tended rather to soothe than
otherwise. They sang a lullaby to his ever-aching
heart, and he was permitted to fall into a state of
dreamy tranquillity  into that state that was the nearest
approach to satisfaction he could now attain to,
for positive happiness, positive pleasure, he believed
it was impossible he could ever experience again.

After some considerable time had been thus whiled
away, his dreamy musing was suddenly interrupted.
Torrents of rain began to fall. In some haste Sir
Charles sought the excellent saloon below. He had
gone down the stairs ; he was in the saloon when he
actually started back with surprise. Leaning her
head on her hands, her elbows resting on the saloon
table, sat a young girl dressed in white. She seemed
startled as much as himself by the sudden descent he
had made. Before quitting the vessel, the stewardess,

intending to return late, had placed a light in the glass
lantern fixed over the table, so that no darkness prevailed
at this particular spot. The girl, indeed, sat
just beneath the light, and when she raised her head at
the sound of the intruder's footsteps, its rays fell full
upon her childlike countenance. Sir Charles saw that
tears were glistening on her cheeks ; he also saw that,
despite these tears, she was exceedingly lovely.

I beg pardon," cries the intruder ; " I had no idea
that any one was left on board." Then seeing the
evidences of her distress, he said gently and tenderly,
Have you been left here inadvertently ? Did you
not wish to stay ? "

I had no one to take me ashore," answered the girl,
her young face suffused with blushes. " I am alone.
The stewardess promised to see to me till I was met,
but she is gone."

Can I do anything for you ? Can I render you
any service ? "

No, thank you," returned the girl with a little touch
of distance or shyness in her manner; then taking
courage, asked in tremulous yet earnest tones as though
it would be a relief to her to be assured, "You do
think the stewardess will return ? You think the ship
ivill go on."

"The stewardess will undoubtedly return. The
steamer will certainly proceed as soon as the weather
and the tide permit." While Sir Charles answered, he
gazed intently on the girl. There was something in
her face, in her voice, in her manner of speaking, in
her very attitude, that struck him almost as familiar.

Her voice seemed like an echo of a voice he had heard
long, long ago  a sad, sweet echo. Did he dream
now ? Had he seen her in some vision of the night
before ? What was it? How was it? His curiosity,
nay, more than curiosity, his interest was excited.
There was a mystery ; he must solve the mystery.
He was determined to discover who the girl might be.

So with a little cunning or adroitness, the result of
more than a very young man's experience, he asked,
Have you any luggage on board ? With no one to
see after you, in such confusion it may be lost ?"

Yes, and it is down here somewhere, I believe," she
said. "Oh, that portmanteau is mine, I think" glancing
towards a portmanteau that stood near; then rising she
examined the label on it, " Yes, it is mine," she added,
walking back to her seat. .

As the girl turned away, Sir Charles took the opportunity
of approaching the portmanteau. He stooped
down and read on the label, Mademoiselle Helene
Graham.

"Pardon my curiosity," he presently murmured,
but I have read the name on your portmanteau.
Tell me," he continued, " you have no mother living ?"

No," cried the girl, now gazing on her questioner.

And your father, George Graham, he is alive ?"

Yes."

Why, then, are you alone? Where is your father ?"

He is in Bruges."

And how can he be so reckless, so unfeeling, as to
suffer you, his daughter, to travel thus alone  to be
under the care, the protection of a stewardess ?"

He could not help it," cried the girl, bursting into
an irrepressible passion of tears.

 Why ?" asked Charles Daubigny, his so lately
spiritless eyes flashing with anger, with interest

cannot tell you," replied she, still weeping.

I believe, nay, I am certain, that your father is
my cousin," continued he, gazing on the lovely but
tear-stained face before him. " If there is any misfortune,
if he is in any trouble, you had better tell
me."

You papa's cousin ? " cried the girl, starting up in
amazement. " How ? Who ?"

" Have you ever heard of Charles Daubigny, now
Sir Charles?"

Yes, and you do not like papa ; I have heard him
say so."

No, no ; I have not liked him. But you seem
wretched. For your sake, Helene, I would set aside
all feeling."

Would you help him ? Would you do him any
good ?" asked the girl, losing her timidity in the excess
of her love for her father. " Oh ! if you would, I
should be grateful to you for ever. It is his misery
makes mine ; it is the disgrace that has just fallen
upon him." Helene uttered these words with impassioned
zeal, with all the grace untutored nature
gives.

Tell me the whole truth ; let there be no prevarication,
no concealment," returned Sir Charles.

Papa is in prison," broke from the girl's quivering
lips, and as they gave utterance to the dreadful words,

so intense was her shame, her suffering, that she sank
down like one completely overpowered, covering her
face with her hands.

Sir Charles gazed upon her in the greatest apprehension.
"For what offence?" he asked, then gently added,
Your father's misfortunes are perhaps beyond my
reach, are perhaps greater than I could have conceived
possible. What has he been about ?"

He has been about nothing," cries Helene, " but
he has grown poorer and poorer, and could not pay his
hotel bill, and the people would not wait."

"Are you telling the truth, child?" asked Charles
Daubigny almost sternly, his whole being changed by
the interest he felt, his sad expressionless features now
expressive of deep contending emotions. " Has your
father been guilty of no offence ?" he repeated.

- None, none," cried the girl.

Do you know at all what he owes in Bruges ;
whether only this hotel bill or other bills besides ?"

Only this one. He waited day by day expecting
money from his lawyer, but it never came."

Can you guess the sum your father owes at the
hotel ?"

Oh, it is hundreds !" cried she, weeping anew ;
more than three hundred pounds, and you will never
give him this," and the child was completely overcome
by the tempest of contending hope and fear that filled
her soul.

Will you return with me to Bruges, Helene ?
Shall we go and see what can be done ?" asked Charles
Daubigny.

Oh ! will you take me back to him ? Oh ! will
you try to save him ?" cried the girl with clasped
hands.

I will," murmured he, taking one of the little hands
tenderly in his own ; " I will," he murmured, " for her
sake, for thine."

"But where were you going?" presently inquired
our man of imagination. " Who was to meet you ?"

I was to be met by mamma's old governess. She
lives at Dover. She is married to a doctor there.
Papa could think of no one else to send me to. I
could not remain at the hotel longer. And see," she
added, " this little case I have in my hand belonged to
poor mamma. It is her jewel-case. He bade me give
it immediately into the hands of Mrs. Sherwin."

Sir Charles almost groaned, so deep was his sigh.
He recognised the jewel-box. He had often seen
Helene's mother, the fairest of the fair, sparkling in
the diamonds that no doubt it contained. He was
indeed so much the victim of imagination, so wholly
infatuated by his early recollections, that for a moment
or two he remained absolutely silent. At length he
said, " And you prefer returning to your father ?
You do not desire to go to this Mrs. Sherwin ? You
love your father ? He is kind to you ? "

He loves me better than he loves himself," broke
from Helene as she strove to restore herself to tranquillity.


We must send a messenger to the doctor's wife,"
slowly murmured Sir Charles. " I suppose she was
Miss Thompson, the governess I remember ?"

She was Miss Thompson ; I remember papa said so."

"A very worthy person," continued Charles Daubigny,
then added after musing a moment, " Are you sure,
child, that you would not be better with this lady?"

"Why do you ask me again?" cried the girl, her
natural impetuosity showing itself ; " I would die to
save him." And she arose, and moved about in some
agitation.

You need not be angry," cried Sir Charles, contemplating
the lovely child who brought so strangely
back to his mind what her dead mother had been;
you need not be angry. Your father's past conduct,
his recklessness, as I feel satisfied he would himself
acknowledge, justifies me in having a doubt, a suspicion
of what he may be."

I have heard papa say that he has done wrong.
But now, indeed, he is quite good. He tells me he
never looked into the Bible once, but now he reads it."

Your father reads the Bible ! George reads the
Bible ! God have mercy!" cries Charles Daubigny with
an almost mocking smile.

Papa's heart is broken," exclaimed the girl in
earnest, in impassioned tones ; " he has told me so
a hundred times," and Helene's tears gushed forth
vehemently as before.

There, don't break your own about him," retorted
her protector, almost jealous of the love George excited.
I promise you I '11 see what can be done," and fora
while in thoughtful silence Charles Daubigny paced
the saloon. Presently he continued as if speaking his
thoughts aloud. " This is what we must do. We must

leave the vessel as soon as the boats return ; we must
so to an hotel in Dunkirk ; we must take the earliest
train tomorrow. My man, my servant, I must send
to meet Mrs. Sherwin with a note from you, Helene.
My servants shall both go on to London ; I can do
without a servant. Better be without these paltry
witnesses. I know your father, Helene ; I know that
his pride, his fastidious feeling must indeed be
wounded."

He is not so very proud," murmured Helene.
Yes he is," cried Sir Charles. " It's in him. It's
helped on his ruin. Have you  I suppose you have
a hundred times  have you heard him allude to his
defeat in the peerage case ? He wasted thousands on
that folly. No more right to it than myself. Flattered
into the belief by some knave."

But that wasn't wicked," pleaded Helene. " He
says now that he has a right to it, and if he believes
wrong, is mistaken, that is not wicked."

That is not wicked," repeated Sir Charles, gazing on
the girl. " No, child, no ; I did not allude to that."

Oh ! " cried Helene, fearing that her father might
be abandoned to his fate, " Oh, Sir, he is not wicked."

"No, child, not always intentionally wicked, not
always. Too often he 's been but his own enemy ; but
he's suffered enough. I have done. Let us hope for
better things."

A vigilante or Belgian fly has driven into the courtyard
of the Hotel Fleur de Ble, and alight from it the
girl in white and Charles Daubigny.

Madame is, standing in the hall of entrance, for it
is one of the times when travellers are likely to arrive
by the train. On seeing the girl she starts, as though
her eyes rested on a spectre ; but she starts, if possible
still more, when Sir Charles accosts her. Sir Charles
was well known to Madame ; he had been twice at her
hotel before. Once he had stayed at the Fleur de Ble
when on his road to Switzerland. A second time he
came out of mere curiosity ; he had had a mind to
make a careful survey of the sad old city. He had
purchased some fine old pictures in Bruges, a
cabinet belonging to Madame herself, and various
pieces of old china, also her property. Charles Daubigny
was well known to Madame as a man of wealth
and importance. From his servants Madame had contrived
to glean many particulars. "What's up now?"
was Madam e's soul's question, the query of her worldly
mind.

How could the apparently abandoned child she had

so lately despatched to Ostend be here, and with this
important personage %

Yon are surprised," said Sir Charles Daubigny,
addressing the amazed hostess ; " you are surprised to
see Miss Graham, but I met the young lady in a little
scene of distress. Bad weather, Madame, the captain
put into Dunkirk."

Ah ! there has been ; thee morning the news
come ; no ting ver bad, Sir Share, I hope."

Nothing very bad," repeated Sir Charles, smiling.
For Miss Helene and myself, perhaps a fortunate mischance,
since owing to the delay we have made out
our relationship. Madame, may I request you to see
my cousin to a comfortable sleeping apartment. I
shall require one also, and a saloon. We stay with
you, perhaps, probably some days.

Madame's small eyes were opened as wide as their
natural contraction permitted.

Helene shrank from. her. However just or pardonable
had been the late proceedings of the host and
hostess of the Fleur de Ble, the girl could not forgive
what they had done. She shuddered, she thrilled
with horror whenever she recalled the dreadful blow
they had inflicted on her father.

Madame felt all the awkwardness of her own
position, and hastened to give the young lady in charge
of the superior femme de chambre, who, with smiles
and curtsies, conducted Helene to Into. 25.

Sir Charles and Madame are presently closely
closeted, he diligently inquiring into his kinsman's
affairs. Their conference ended thus : 

I shall require a messenger, Madame, in an hour's
time. I must despatch a note to your maison de
attention!'

He had previously said, " It was not well, Madame,
to make such short work of it as you did ; you
should have had more patience and greater faith in
my cousin's integrity. Whatever may have been his
failings, his honesty has never been questioned. Unluckily
for himself, through life he has been but too
generous, too lavish, too trustful  scrupulously exact."

If we had known Monsieur was of your alliance,"
said Madame apologetically, " Mais  "

Nothing you can say, Madame, can wipe away the
painful fact. Perhaps the less you say the better,"
returned Charles Daubigny with an unusual severity
in his voice, with an unwonted frown upon his brow.
And Madame at length, apparently in some dismay
but in reality, very well satisfied with the prospect
of so speedy a settlement of her claim, curtsies and
retires.

Sir Charles is now alone. He has given himself one
short hour wherein to compose his letter.

Unfortunate man, until he commenced his self-imposed
task he had no idea of the difficulty he should
find in its performance. He was about to address one
whom for fourteen years he had shunned, whom he
hated for having attracted, allured, and detached the
hapless Helene from the path of duty. True, George
Graham had not wronged Charles Daubigny. Charles
Daubigny had never had possession of Helene's heart
or her person. But George Graham had brought degree

1. b

dation and ruin on his cousin's ideal of perfection ; he
had polluted the image Charles Daubigny's imagination
had clothed with all that was lovely. Helene had gone
to her rest in shame, in obscurity, and a dark cloud
lowered above her, and but for George Graham this had
not been. True, the world had said that Helene was
the guiltier of the twain, for her lover broke no marriage
vow, while she had fled from an adoring old
husband, from a most worthy and respectable man.

Still, heedless of the world's opinion, Charles Daubigny
had never forgiven his haughty and his handsome
kinsman. His very success, his triumph had made him
odious. To himself, as a girl, Helene had been hard,
cold, and unfeeling, and here was one for whom she
could sacrifice even her honour, her reputation, her
right place in the world.

Charles Daubigny had just scrawled " Dear George"
on the blank sheet of paper before him, when, for the
thousandth time these memories rose up anew, to disturb,
to agitate. He started from his chair, he paced
the room, his heart beat with its old fierce anger.

But the girl's image, the vision, the scene he had
witnessed in the saloon, almost as instantly arose before
him to quell, to extinguish, or to mollify his animosity.

How sweetly fair, how wholly innocent was she !
How every moment of her future life might be influenced
by, might be made happier by his efforts. His
heart melted into tenderness. God had presented this
opportunity ; he would not, he must not let it pass. He
would save, he would bless. After a while he returns to
his chair and resumes his pen. But now to his imagination

arose a new difficulty. The ruined man lie was
about to address was by nature so haughty, so fastidious,
so sensitive, he might spurn the offer he was about
to make, he might resent as an insult his interference,
he might choose rather to remain in his foreign prison
than to accept assistance from himself.

It behoved him then to approach with caution, to
ask as a favour, to ask for the girl's sake that he might
be permitted to settle this pressing claim, and extricate
his kinsman from his present difficulty.

Oh, reader, I present thee the letter that follows not
as the letter of a man of genius. Charles Daubing
had no pretension to genius, he was not even a very
clever man. His mind was but mediocre. But he had
a heart and a soul such as few men have, uncorrupted
by the world, incapable of being lifted up by wealth,
by position ; practising simulation only out of amiability,
or when he thought good would result from
silence or ambiguity.

For the sake of that young fair girl he quells his
rage, he pardons his enemy. He will do that good with
his money which, imaginative as he is, hope tells him
he may do.

He will strive to make the beautiful and impassioned
child happier and better. What though sin hath
hedged her path with brambles and sharp thorns,
these weeds of the wilderness shall give place to weeds
of softer grace, or they shall be veiled, hidden by his
care. The honeysuckle shall give its golden glory, the
bindweed and the May shall give their snowy purity.
Ah ! his hand shall plant and tend, till Helene, in the

dim, the far-off future, shall soft repose amid the
peaceful olive boughs, the myrtle shades.

Though cypress shadows fall upon his own sad path,
and make the very sunlight misty to himself, though
nightshade, hemlock, herbs of poison be inevitably her
ruined father's portion, why should this child, this
girl, this thing of innocence and beauty, find no rescue ?

THE LETTER.

Dear George,  Perhaps the first sentence my pen
traces on this paper, traces in feeling too deep for expression,
should be one of apology.

I ask myself, will you resent my interference ? and
I am fain to confess (knowing your nature as I do) a
doubt, a fear oppresses me.

Yet must I hope that you will strive to subdue and
restrain your natural impetuosity, and strive to believe
with me that that I am about to narrate  the singular
circumstance that has occurred, that which urges me
to seek a renewal of our long-broken intercourse 
has been the will of God, the work of an overruling
Providence.

You had arranged with Madame for Helene

to cross in the mail packet on . I had intended

reaching Dover by the same vessel on the same
day, and duly went on board at the hour named.

The morning w r as anything but inviting, the air was
misty, the sky heavy with shifting cloud. Not a ray
of sunshine broke the gloom, and passed athwart us at
little intervals gusts of wind, uttering as they passed a
feeble cry of pain. The sea, too, when we had made

some way from land, was found to be much rougher
than had been anticipated.

Had matters continued thus we had doubtless had
an uneventful passage. But it was not so to be  it was
ordered otherwise.

Gradually the heavy shifting clouds overhead grew
darker, the mist increased, and each succeeding gust of
wind blew fresher and fiercer, and was more prolonged ;
the former voice of gentle suffering exchanged now for,
or was drowned in, a wild and threatening shriek.

The sea, too, had also changed its aspect. The waves
at this time rolled by us, or met us in their vastest proportion,
their most majestic tribulation.

For myself, I must confess this rough weather had
its attraction. There could, I believed, be no cause for
apprehension. But my apathy, or my satisfaction, was
due to my ignorance. I was unconscious that we were
crossing in an old patched-up vessel unfitted to encounter
even so slight a gale. The captain was better
up in such knowledge, and I was presently aroused
from my reverie by the old fellow touching me on the
arm, and telling me, in the best English he could command,
that forthwith he should change his course and
make for the nearest haven, Dunkirk. ' He liked not
the weather in such a ship,' etc. etc., and in spite of a
violent opposition from one or two of the passengers,
he happily carried his intention into effect. Ere long
the vessel lay in safety and at rest.

And now, as at the best many hours must elapse
ere we could proceed, and there was scarce anything
to eat or to drink on board, our Flemish captain suggested

that the wisest course to pursue was for the
passengers at once to land and seek refreshment and
relaxation in Dunkirk. His suggestion met with approval,
and followed, as it seemed to me, a general move.
I sent my servants with the rest of the people, but declined
myself making one of the numerous party bound
for the city, preferring the solitude, the quietness I
should find in the presently about-to-be-forsaken vessel.

I had wandered up and down on deck musing and
reading for hours, but at length the rain, that suddenly
fell in torrents, compelled me to seek a place of shelter.
Hastily I descended the stairs, as hastily entered the
saloon, to find there in desertion, in distress, that child
of whom I have sometimes dreamed, whom I had how
often vainly wished to behold. As I stood gazing upon
her, as she answered the questions which, in my amazement,
I framed, a strange, a painful feeling thrilled
through my soul. The voice alone would have betrayed.
It fell upon my senses as a sad, sweet echo of a music
I had listened to long, long ago. Yes, I felt that the
girl mysteriously recalled the past, and using a little
stratagem, I was enabled to discover by the label on
her luggage that imagination had not deceived me.

Helene tells me that your love for her is great, is
never-failing. You will then for her sake pardon my
trespass. You will forgive me for having drawn from
her unwilling lips in that moment of confusion the
truth, the reason why she was travelling in the unprotected
condition in which I found her.

When she discovered who I was, or rather when
she learned of the deep interest I felt, the desire I had

to render my utmost assistance, I cannot describe, as I
can never forget, her impassioned eagerness. She would
not be prevailed upon to pursue her journey, or rather
resume her passage to Dover. She would return with
me, and we are now together in this house. The child
is scarce able to restrain her impatient longing for your
return. George, though you would refuse me, though
in your soul's depths you despise, spurn my offer of
assistance, you cannot, you will not resist when the
little Helene pleads. In such a cruel emergency you
will suffer me to make an immediate settlement of this
pressing claim.

I have already spoken severely to the hostess; I have
been careful to represent you to her as a gentleman of
the highest character, whose integrity, whose honour
none ever presumed to question. I have mentioned our
relationship; that your present difficulty must be but a
temporary affair. I find your absence from this house
has been but of a few days. I entreat you to return
hither as carelessly as you can, and treat the affair as a
mere bagatelle. Do not betray any uneasiness. With
your leave all may yet go well. Write by my messenger.
 And believe me, faithfully yours,

Charles T. Daubigny."

The letter finished, it was forthwith despatched to the
maison de detention. And now in the mind of him
who wrote it what perturbation ! It had been composed,
as we have shown, under the strongest excitement
in less than an hour. There had been no time for
reflection or amendment. It had gone straight from an

overwrought imagination, from a heart full of generous
feeling.

And now, as Sir Charles paced his room, and recalled,
or tried to recall, the expressions he had used, the light
he had let in betraying his own sensitiveness, he pictured
his imprisoned kinsman jesting over his sentiment,
laughing his offer to scorn, his lip curling in disdain.

Then he who had but just written the letter started
aghast at his own rashness, or his pale cheek flushed ashe
thought of his own humility. Why had he attacked
such an intractable person ? Why had he vainly abased
himself by pleading with him ?

Then sometimes hope would triumph. The girl had
said that her father's heart was broken, that she had
seen him look into a Bible, ay, even read the sacred
volume. And if that obdurate heart were broken, if
suffering had indeed so wrought upon it, then in the
very spirit in which the letter had been written it might
be read.

THE ANSWER.

Your communication has been a great surprise tome.
Its suddenness, its peculiar nature has so agitated,
so affected me, as to bring on beating of the heart to
excess, a thing I have only occasionally, I may say
rarely, suffered from before. The attack was accompanied
by faintness. My thoughts were scattered ;
my hand refused its office.

1 should not mention this had it not occasioned a
delay. Your messenger has unavoidably been detained
waiting for my answer.

There has been no rebellion in my soul, scarce
any reluctancy to accept your generous offer.

But let us cast away disguise. The interest you
take in my affairs springs from a preconceived tenderness
you have cherished for the child. My love for
the child induces me to suppress or rather to overcome
my natural feeling, induces me to overlook the past.
Let her be as articles of peace between us. Let
Helene be as a bridge cast over an otherwise impassable
chasm.

And here I must also remark, that if ever I were,
I no longer am the reckless unmanageable devil your
imagination represents me ; I see traces of such an
impression all through your letter. The proudest
animal, by dint of hard and constant work, by use
of bit and spur, in time becomes the sorriest hack.
I have had such tyranny ; disappointment and affliction
have bestridden, anguish goaded.

I have witnessed death  death, Charles  her death !
It came not too soon. She has been spared the worst.
I must envy, but I may not desire the refuge she
timely gained, since a little life is so bound up in mine.

And this brings me to another consideration, and
bids me, emboldens me to ask at your hands another
favour, a yet greater favour than that you are about
to confer. Will you, on your return to England, use
your utmost diligence to find me some remunerative
employment ?

Some occupations, health permitting, I am as
well qualified to undertake as many a man trained to
them. I could look after forest land, where there were

cattle and horses. I could be a land steward or bailiff.
Can I well ask for less ? But I want no more. Your
world  that world in which I had a place  in which I
once, perhaps, was too conspicuous  that I abjure forever.
I ask not to be one of it ; I seek only to be forgotten,
to live unknown, to die in obscurity.

To conclude. I shall do my best at the present
moment, under this fiery trial, to follow your counsel.
It is due to yourself. To-day you have a right to command.
I will return to the Fleur de Ble and resume my
old apartment. None at Bruges is acquainted with
the real state of my circumstances ; therefore, the blot
that can never be wiped away may be made to appear
a mere bagatelle.

I do not blame your host and hostess. I was an
utter stranger. They exercised considerable patience ;
they gave the child food and shelter after my arrest ;
they saw her safely to Ostend.

Burn this letter immediately you have read it, and
you will oblige your very grateful kinsman,

George.

That letter to Charles Daubigny came as a welcome
gleam of light. He dared now to propose that which
had been in his mind, but that which, without that
letter, he could not have had the audacity or the sangfroid
to utter. He sends, very early next morning, his
messenger to the maison de detention with a little note,
May he visit his cousin there ? " for it is not
possible that on the instant George Graham can be
released. " Will his cousin permit him an interview ?"

We must confess a deep flush rose to Graham's very
temples at the idea of a meeting, and within those
walls ; but he scrawled a few words in reply, and
Charles was with him anon.

Let us hear what the homelier man of wealth says to
him who is all a grand fallen ruin : " Treat, or seem
to treat the affair," says the kind baronet, " as nothing.
You tell me you have had no one in your confidence
here. Carry yourself as though it had not affected you
in the least."

It will be to very little purpose," replied the unfortunate
man. "I must sink; it is inevitable. The
West Indian property is worse than nothing."

That may recover itself. In the meantime, with

your permission," and Sir Charles subdued his voice to
the meekest, gentlest tone (for his soul was full of pity
for his fallen foe), " in the meantime I suggest, that is,
may I take the liberty, George, of suggesting  " He
paused, as if fearful of going further.

Whatever your better sense suggests I shall attend
to. Say on."

You know the estate that came to me a few years
ago in such an unexpected manner."

George silently bows his head.

I have been thinking, with all deference to your
better judgment, that were you and the child to go
and reside in the great useless house, and if you could
bring your mind to it, George  umph  become my
agent  my steward there," and as Sir Charles uttered
these words he did not dare look up ; he did not dare
to watch the countenance before him ; he kept his eyes
fast fixed upon the prison floor.

The voice that answered was not Graham's natural,
usual voice ; it was hoarse ; it told of the heart's heavy
burden, of the soul's deep suffering.

If you really want a steward, if this is not a
mere pretence, a piece of charitable courtesy, if I
were certain I could be of real use to you, Charles, I
can work, but I cannot live on charity."

Ah ! this next hour, what need to follow their discourse.
We need only tell that there and then it was
decided ; that within this brief space of time, that
during their interview in the raison de detention,
George Graham agreed to take service as his kinsman's
steward.

destiny, what strange freaks dost thou play !
How dost thou bow down the head that holds itself
the highest, and keep thy blessings on the lowly and
the meek !

But we linger not in the prison. It is next morning,
and we are in an apartment of the Fleur de Ble,
a long, lofty chamber, lighted by two tall Spanish
windows. These windows look out into the court-yard
of the hotel ; from them you also gain a view of a
small Dutch garden, sheltered by a venerable vine-clad
wall.

The vine leaves are now in their wide-spread beauty,
their brightly tinted glory ; dark clustering grapes
too are mingling. But to return. "We have not todo
this morning with the outside of the hotel, nor
with the outside of that apartment ; we must look
within. George Graham has just returned to it, and
the little Helene is weeping for joy on her father's
bosom.

George, dearest George," murmurs the girl as again
and again in ecstasy she kisses the released and ruined
man. He could scarce refrain from tears himself.
He spoke nothing ; he was deadly pale ; his hand
trembled.

Oh ! gaze upon the ruined man thyself, my reader,
if haply I may bring him vividly before thee.

Blasted hope, money vainly spent, the disapproval
of the good, the coldness of friends, the slow torturing
delay of the law, the death of the woman he had
seduced, increasing poverty, had been his portion ; and
yet under such variety of suffering George Leslie

Graham had lost nothing of his inherent manly grace,
his singular beauty of countenance. The dignity
nature had bestowed at least he yet retained.

Ah ! see the little maiden when her joy, her agitation
will permit. Behold her setting her idol in order.
She brushes his dark chestnut hair and places it in
waves upon his lofty brow. She smooths his moustache.
She descends from her elevated position and gazes into
his deep blue eyes. As the girl kneels down, kissing
in her delight even her father's very hands, resting
her head on his arms, circling one of his in her own,
her little - dainty nose more than once comes in close
contact with his coat-sleeve.

Presently a little sniff  another  she looks up
inquiringly into her father's face.

What is it ? " asks he painfully.

Papa," the girl murmurs, " only  almost nothing ;
but the coat does not smell nice like your coats ; it
smells of smoke."

The air of the prison has defiled it," answers he,
rising hastily and in some agitation. "Leave me,
Helene, I must change these clothes, and may the
sight of them never blast my eyes again."

The young girl's heart was grieved by her own
thoughtless remark. Silently she withdrew, wandering
in the long corridor that led to their apartment till
her father, opening his door, recalled her.

The rustic suit George Graham, in her absence, had
assumed was the first that came to hand. It was of
coarse grey woollen cloth, but it was picturesque inform
and fashion. How mightily it became him ! An

artist had desired no finer, fitter subject on which to
exercise his pencil than the ruined man thus carelessly
attired. Yes, to-day, this hour, bowed down by
misery as he is, lingers round George Graham as a
halo, that air of distinction, that nobility of beauty
that we love to see depicted, that we pause to admire
in an old portrait.

Helene had not long re-entered her father's room
when some one tapped at the door. Waiting upon
him she loved so well, loved with an intense devotion,
the girl gently unfastens the door to find there a
waiter bearing a little note directed in due form, " G.
E. Leslie Graham, Esquire."

Sir Charles would leave Bruges next day. He
could not but feel some embarrassment, or rather some
pain, when in the presence of his kinsman. He
thought the feeling must be reciprocal. Hence, when
he had said and done all that he could tending to the
desired end, he felt it would be better for him to withdraw.
Under this impression he sends up now the
little note to Xo. 25, begging that Graham and Helene
will this evening, the last evening of his stay in the
hotel, dine with him down-stairs in Xo. 2. The
waiter was bidden to stay for an answer, but Helene
dismissed the man, feeling, as it were instinctively,
that he had better not be there just now. She was so
accustomed to her father's outbreaks of excitement, of
anguish, so afraid just now there might be one.

And the man is gone, and Helene watches her father
as he undergoes another martyrdom, as he paces the
great chamber in cruel meditation, asking himself

whether it is possible he can obey his new masters
summons.

Can he bring his mind to this ? and this very evening
2 To have to dress for dinner, to have to descend
the great staircase whereon he may meet how many
idle gazers, to have to wear so complete a mask. Yet
how refuse ? No, he could not refuse ; there was yet
much to hear and to arrange. Ah ! at length reason
prevails. " Go, Helene," he presently says, turning to
the girl, " go, there is no occasion for a note ;  go tell
Sir Charles w 7 e accept his invitation."

And Helene, bestowing upon her George yet one
more kiss, her rosy lips pressed upon his forehead, just
above his dark and knitted brows, runs away to do his
errand.

Descending the staircase she reaches No. 2, taps,
and waits, and the sensitive shrinking occupant, unconscious
who is there, bids the person enter. Helene
obeys, and delivers her father's message. Charles
Daubigny gazes on the girl with an interest growing
deeper and deeper, but 'tis the music of her voice that
most touches him ; his soul drinks it in with almost
a sense of suffering, so acutely does it recall the past,
so like it is to the voice of Helene Vane.

Oh, reader, see George Leslie Graham; behold him
as an animal chosen for its perfection, as the noblest
animal in the herd ; see him as that might be decked
out for sacrifice.

The feelings of the gentleman must needs be sacrificed
upon the altar of necessity.

And how does our victim go to the block and to the
fire ? Arrayed, despite his suffering, as in his days of
wild caprice, of wilful independence.

The dress-coat lined with silk, the snowy and
embroidered shirt, the spotless vest, the trousers,
made by the most renowned of London tailors, the
polished shoes with buckles, the silk socks, and his
long taper fingers lack not their golden glittering freight
of rings.

But though 'tis August, and the now sinking sun has
glowed fierce upon the reaper in the fields all day, the
hands, the long taper fingers of our victim have a deathlike
chill. 'Tis our poor friend's last appearance on the
stage of life. To-morrow George Leslie Graham will
be no more. Henceforth he will be as the forgotten
dead, his career ended. Who will recognise in Mr.
Graham, the steward at Avonmore, the man who claimed
the title of Gartmore, and who ran away with the old
banker's wife ?

But we have not to do with the past. We are on the
principal staircase of the Fleur de Ble. We see George
Graham, accompanied by Helene, descending this staircase
en route for No. 2.

Rendered sensitive to the highest degree by his late
calamity, Graham had imagined that his ever adverse
fortune would bring him in contact, ere he could reach
the saloon, with various English idlers, frequenters of,
or residents in, the hotel.

As it fell out, he met with but one of this vapid
breed, but one particularly obnoxious to himself, 
a pompous fellow of common caste, who had gone

vol. L c

abroad to sink his origin,  a little fellow with plenty
of money, but with a purely vulgar mind.

On entering his wife's apartment, immediately after
his encounter with Graham, the little swaggerer broke
out thus : " I met that proud devil on the stairs as I
came up, looking for all the world like Lucifer himself.
I wonder the prison held him as long as it did. Why
didn't the fool, like another Samson, command the prison
walls to fall and crush the Philistines beneath their
ruin ? I fancy the Mortier have put their foot in it
nicely. Madame herself avowed to me this afternoon
that she and her husband had had to apologise for their
precipitancy, and that to appease his grand relation
here, she had positively stooped to beg * as a favour
that Graham on his release would resume his lodgings
in her house."

Thus is it man mistakes his fellow-man. Thus is it
man beneath a proud, a cold exterior, can hide a humbled
spirit and a breaking heart.

Who indeed of the uninitiated, what stranger who
had gazed on Graham that August eve on his way to
No. 2, could have supposed that such an indignity had
so lately been put upon him ? He looked so noble, his
form was so erect, and when presently he is seated at
the dinner-table, this same stranger might well suppose
that he is the man of power, that he is about to confer
the favour, the benefit.

Sir Charles, very pale, very shrinking, stooping a little
more than usual, though a year the younger man, looked
in this hour of trial the elder of the two,  looked as
though he were the supplicant, as indeed he felt himself

to be. Yes, our man of imagination, ever suffering from
excess of sensitiveness, sat now watching the man
opposite to him, precisely as you and I, my reader,
might watch a noble-spirited but ill-broken horse harnessed
to our car. Yes, our poor Sir Charles sat dreading
some outbreak, some restiveness, to defeat, to mar
his progress, to undo the plans he had been at such
pains in his own mind to weave for the girl's benefit
and happiness. Sir Charles could not read the soul, he
could only see his haughty rival.

Oh, soul, what haclst thou endured ! oh, heart, why
hadst thou not broken ! oh, life, why hadst thou lingered
on, surmounting defeat, disaster !

But we must not linger. Helene sits on one side of
the dinner-table, her great blue eyes alternately wandering
from the countenance she loves best to that of her
new acquaintance. She is mightily interested, and
almost forgets to eat, her young innocent mind is so on
the stretch. How lovely the girl looked, and with
nothing to set off her beauty ;  a washed white
muslin dress, of thick muslin, embroidered it was,
certainly, but it was not new. She had somewhat
outgrown it, too ; it was a trifle shorter than it
should have been, it came down only to the knee,
but she had silk stockings and pretty shoes to set
off the prettiest of feet. Her hair was golden brown,
it was left quite to nature, and it fell in heavy
masses on her creamy shoulders, for Helene was not
fair, was not all white and pink ; she was a brunette,
born to be one, a little gipsy in her cradle. And her
face, her neck, her arms were veritably of a rich creamy

hue. But she was a beautiful child nevertheless, there
dwelt such depth of beauty in her long-shaped eyes,
the lashes were so silky and so dark, the pencilled brows
so perfect ; in the rosy lips and pearly teeth there was
no fault ; the nose as yet was small, and somewhat
undecided as to its class, but that time and womanhood
would alter.

And ever and anon, despite his anxiety, Sir Charles
contrives to steal a cautious glance. He listens as the
young girl speaks ; her voice is as a faint echo of that
music that once had sent a thrill through his soul, and
is now but as a dirge, a funereal dirge. Though he
half envies his cousin, yet thankful he is to see
how intensely the girl loves her father, and still
more thankful he is to hear how tenderly Graham
speaks to her.

The dinner is over, the coffee has been served, sipped,
dismissed ; the shadows of evening are falling ; a little
breeze enters at the tall open windows. "Was there an
awkwardness, an embarrassment in the little party?
No, that was over. The preface had been read, and
they were lost in the interest of the story. As the two
men paced the long saloon, they were discussing matters
of so much interest that the present was lost in the
future. " It is a good cottage enough," murmured Sir
Charles, " if you would like living there better than in
the great house."

I should infinitely prefer it," returns the ruined man.

But you will go straight hence to Avonmore ; you
will, George, and reside there while the cottage is
undergoing the necessary repairs."

I cannot sufficiently thank you," murmurs Graham ;
all I fear is, that my services will be but poor requital.
I can never give anything in exchange ; I can never
repay your kindness ; but I must learn humility."

There is plenty to be done. You will find it no
sinecure. The property has been horribly neglected.
You see Mathieson could not attend to the two estates,
lying in such opposite directions."

Well,, this is consolation  encouragement," sighs
poor Graham ; " to be obliged to be active will do me
good. I am not afraid of work, and you know, Charles,
I am honest, I shan't do you," with a laugh.

Helene had been listening intently to every word
that fell from her companion's lips. Graham was
standing near a sofa when the little bitter laugh escaped
him. Mounting on the sofa cushion, putting an arm
round her father's neck, her lips close to his ear, the
girl whispers, "Papa, tell me, are you going to be a
servant to Sir Charles ?"

"What does she whisper?" asked Charles Daubigny.

I only asked papa whether he was going to be your
servant," replies the girl, and as she says this, a deep
blush of shame or wounded pride overspreads her
beauty.

Your papa is my cousin, Helene, of the same blood
as myself," somewhat hurriedly interposed Sir Charles,
his pulse growing unequal in its beating, throbbing
with dread, lest the girl's question should wound his
kinsman so deeply as to cause a start, a reaction, a
retrograde movement ; then added without a pause,
He is merely about to do me the favour, the service

of looking after a vast tract of land. What he said
was said in mere jest  it was nonsense."

George," murmurs the girl, her arm still round her
father's neck, " you shall not talk nonsense, don't."

"When shall you expect me to he at Avonmore?"
suddenly asks Graham, as one who spoke with an effort,
as one roused to a sense of deeper suffering.

With all regard to your own convenience, I should
say immediately. For my interest, the sooner you are
there the better. Of course, travelling at my charge,"
and the last few words were spoken how meekly,
softly ! Yet had Sir Charles looked up, he had seen
that, meekly and softly as these few last words had
been uttered, their import had brought the colour to
his kinsman's brow.

Yet Graham triumphed over himself, and answered
bravely, " I shall only be too thankful to quit this
d  d place, and exchange its gossip, its espionage, for
the freedom, the seclusion of a wilder life."

"In addition to the yearly sum we agreed upon,"
murmurs Sir Charles, his eyes fixed on the ground,
you will avail yourself of the fishing and the shooting.
I know, George, it is all so easy to you."

George silently bent his head.

"And you will see what sort of men the present
keepers are, whether they are decent orderly fellows ;
and the dogs, how they use the poor brutes. And I
think," continued Sir Charles, " it will be best to employ
the people in the village to do the cottage repairs ; that
is, if it can be so managed. It is pleasant to be well
with our humbler neighbours."

That is quite my idea," murmurs Graham.

"Ami remember," pursued the baronet, whose heart
was overflowing with zeal and hope, " remember, I wish
the cottage to be made as ornamental as may be. I
suggest a verandah, a greenhouse, better and taller
chimneys ; no, the chimneys will do. I remember
noticing the chimneys. But you are a man of taste.
Expense is no object. In fact, I feel it to be a matter
of duty to lay out some money in the village, or rather
to employ the people there."

"And you think I should proceed to Avonmore
without delay?"

"Without any delay. The weather is fine. The
country air will do Helene good. I have already written
to Mrs. Bird, who takes charge of the house. You
remember Mrs. Bird, George, our old nurse ?"

"Ah !" cried Graham, with a gleam of nature in his
voice, "for Helene's sake I am glad. She will be a
great comfort to my daughter,  a sort of person I may
put some faith in."

I have enjoined her to prepare immediately for
your reception. You have only to write and name the
day, the hour when she may expect you."

You are very, very thoughtful, very kind," cried
Graham, his heart rather too full, aching all the more
under a sense of benefits conferred or about to be, " and
now I think Helene and I must bid you good-night.
The chimes are reminding me," and as he spoke, their
music sounded soft and sad, and then the clock of des
Halles tolled the hour of ten.

Good-night then," cried the sad owner of Avon-more,

and as the girl holds out her hand to receive his
last greeting, Sir Charles, after pressing it tenderly,
places on the little palm a small but heavy package, if
package that could be called, which was only a piece of
note-paper wholly unfastened. "Before you go into
the wilds of Avonmore you must get yourself some
pretty things," he said, as he performed this thoughtless
feat.

The girl could see what was in the half-sheet of
note-paper. She stood a moment irresolute, then
taking Graham by the arm, and almost whispering, she
said, "Papa, he has given me money  gold; I must
not have it, must I ?"

Charles," cried Graham, seeming to forget his new
character and its requisite humility, while a frown
clouded his fine features, " Charles, this is pushing
your generosity too far. The girl can't take it. Any
little present you like to make her she will be happy
to accept."

I beg pardon," murmurs Sir Charles ; " an inadvertency,
a mistake, my dear," taking the package
which the girl held out ; " something else. We must
manage better," and he gave a great sigh.

Papa, you have vexed him," softly whispers Helene
to her father ; " but I must not, must I ?"

Helene was not answered. Sir Charles put a question
to Graham almost at the same moment. " Will
you suffer Helene to take a little walk with me tomorrow
morning before I leave ? We may perhaps
pick up some trifles  a souvenir ?"

Certainly," replied George, his features now

smoothed down again. " You will go with Sir Charles,
won't you?" addressing Helene.

"Where?" inquired the little maiden. " In the
street to a shop ?"

Yes," answered Charles Daubigny.

Well, I will go. What time must I be ready ?"

Not later than eleven," answered he.

Shall I have to come to your room  to this room ?"

Yes, at eleven."

We have said that Helene was a very lovely child,
but we have not yet, perhaps, mentioned that nature
had stamped upon her an air of distinction ; that
nature, assisted by careful training, had given to her
movements, to her manner of walking, a peculiar grace.

And now it is a quarter-past eleven, and Helene is
walking out of the hotel yard with Charles Daubigny.
He might well be proud of the appearance of his little
companion, and he was proud of it ; but he w T as a
good, a worthy man, and as he surveyed Helene's
pretty face and graceful figure, her little feet and well-turned
ankles, surveyed them too with the eyes of a
fastidious critic in female beauty, he could not repress
heaving a deep, a bitter sigh. He remembered her
mother's beauty ; he recalled the faults, the sin of
Helene Vane. He remembered that but for the poor
dead woman's attractions, her grace, her style, she
most likely had been living now, respected and surrounded
by every worldly blessing ; he shuddered, he
trembled for her child. He felt assured that Helene's
young life had been full of exposure to evil. He
knew that her mother, from the time of her downfall,
had resided almost continuously abroad ; he suspected,

from his knowledge of the careless nature of his early
love, that her child must have been left very much to
the care of its foreign nurse.

Charles Daubigny was right. The little Helene
had been under the most pernicious, the worst of
influences. She had been carried when a baby by a
French woman. She had had for a nursery governess
a foreigner. Had it not been for the young Helene's
passionate love for her father, her heart, her soul, had
been full of guile. She had been false and mean;
that is to say, if example, if teaching can influence, for
her foreign nurse and her foreign governess had been
adepts in craft and deceit.

The unfortunate child had had, as it were, no mental
education. Lessons in dancing, even in infancy, she
had had in plenty, and well she had profited by them.
But she had never had an English person to teach her
English ; hence she occasionally spoke and wrote her
own language w T long, and wrote and spoke French
wrong too. Hence her childish discourse w T as a
strange mixture of the two languages ; and occasionally
escaped her exclamations or sentences in
French so fraught with precocity and affectation as
to testify but too w T ell who had been her teachers
and companions.

Happy was it for Helene's heart and mind that the
sad combination of death, of sorrow, of failing means,
had brought her in closer communion with her sterner,
loftier parent  had brought her often to be his sole
companion. Graham himself, unlike poor Helene Vane,
was truthful to the extreme ; he had an abhorrence of

artifice. His little daughter loved him, but she feared
him too. In his presence her French folly was suppressed.


But children, especially young girls, have remarkable
penetration, and our little lady presently discovered
that Charles Daubigny was less to be feared than her
father.

And now we return from this digression to the
moment when Sir Charles and Helene are leaving the
hotel, to the moment when he breathed forth that long-deep
sigh.

Why are you so dull ? " asked the girl as she
listened to this evidence of depression.

I was thinking of you, Helene," he answered ;
thinking that you have no one to see to you."

Papa does."

Does he teach you to kneel down in all humility
and pray to God to make you a good girl ?"

How do you know that I say my prayers at all ?"
asked the girl playfully.

I feel sure that you do."

I don't kneel down then ; I say them to myself in
bed, and not them but it, for I only say the Lord's
Prayer

And you do not understand one word of it, eh?"

"Well I cannot quite understand it. Yes, I do,
though. I ask to be forgiven as I forgive. I ask to be
delivered from evil."

And is your soul in your prayer, Helene ? Are
your thoughts fixed on the majesty of God ? Do you
picture to yourself Christ your Saviour, who, in the

midst of interest suffering, was yet all merciful, even
to the thief beside Him on the cross ?"

No, I don't think of all this' murmured Helene,
looking somewhat disconcerted.

Will you do me a favour ?" asked her grave and
sentimental companion.

Ah, oui, certainement," cried the girl, listening in
childish surprise and gratification at so unexpected a
request.

Well, then, when you wake in the morning at
Avonmore, fail not to remember this. Eemember that
Charles Daubigny, though far away, wherever he maybe,
is asking God, is asking Jesus to spare and to save
you. Helene, you will do me a like service ; you will
pray for me."

A quel heure est votre re veil ?"

My servant calls me at seven."

Then I must be valued a sept heures moins un
quart. Nous devons nous s'abaisser au meme instant."

God, Helene, is in all places at the same time,"
continued Charles Daubigny ; " He will be equally
present with you as with me. Thus there will be
established betwixt us, as it were, a mystic bond of
union."

I do not quite understand ; yes, I think I do,"
murmured the girl, her beautiful and intelligent countenance
showing the interest she took in the words of
her companion.

Thy soul, child, and mine ascending at the same
time."

I see," cried Helene, " c'est ainsi : our spirits

shall meet en ciel, devant le trone de Dieu. Though we
be parted est le ceci que vous avez pense, Charle ? But
I must not call you Charles though papa does. He
says I am using too much freedom ; and besides  " and
the girl paused.

"What would you say more, Helene? what besides?"

"With downcast eyes and blushing cheek the girl
added, "C'est un nom que je detested. C'est nom
indigne de vous. Have you only one name ? My
papa has many."

Yes, I too have other names, but I never use them."

But you may tell them to me."

Well, before Charles stands Louis."

Oh ! that is the name I love ; quel ange d'un nom !
Saint Louis ; yes, I may call you that."

No, indeed ; people would laugh. Helene, you
must not be fantastic." Ah ! he recognised in this
waywardness, this levity, this caprice, a touch of the
Helene who was gone, and with an irrepressible sigh
he added, " Helene, you must not follow every whim ;
you must learn to be reasonable. But here is the shop.
See, we are passing it."

Oh yes," cried the lively girl, " and it is one of the
shops that I am always longing to go into ;" and as
Helene uttered these words they entered the repository
of pretty trifles.

I want to see the handsomest, best fitted work-box
that you have, Madame," murmured the baronet.

Voila," cried the Flemish woman, bringing forward
a large painted Spa work-box. " It is de admiration,
l'envie de tous les dames ici."

Helen e, do you like it ?" inquired Sir Charles.

"Yes," replied the girl; "but I do not work well
nor much."

"Then you do not care for it ?"

I like that better," cried she, pointing to another
box set open, a Spa box lined with crimson and velvet,
and filled with gilded glass scent-bottles.

"You ought to work ; it is right for girls to work ;
you shall have the two boxes."

That will be having too much," murmured the girl,
blushing at the rebuke from and the generosity of her
patron, " won't it ?"

No, not at all. I should have liked to have given
you a much handsomer present." Then Sir Charles
paid for his gifts, and ordered them to be sent immediately
to Miss Graham's room, No. 25 Fleur de Ble.

Madame Volant, who had heard the whole story of
Graham's imprisonment, of the sudden and opportune
appearance of the man of wealth, curtsied and wondered
as Helene and her companion quitted the shop.

I am not satisfied with these poor gifts," murmured
the young girl's loving patron. " Is there  is there
any other place hereabouts where we could find an
addition ?"

There is another," softly answered the girl. " But
you must not give me anything else. Papa explained
to me the meaning of a souvenir. It is just such a
present as you have given me."

Show me the other shop."

Silently the girl retraced her steps, and pointed to a
modistes, gay with ribbons, silks, and laces.

Is that the ribbon ?" asked Sir Charles, pointing to
one the girl's eyes were riveted on.

"Yes, I love it," cried Helene, "it is my darling
favourite bine."

Let us capture it then," he said ; " but a man
doesn't ask for ribbon ; you must desire the woman to
put it up."

They entered the shop of the modiste; the girl
desired her to bring the ribbon. This woman had
heard the story of the rich Englishman, she guessed
that the stranger before her was no other, and with the
rapidity of a practised hand she contrived to bring
forward on the instant and attract his notice to a box
of delicately embroidered lace-trimmed cambric pocket-handkerchiefs.


Sir Charles could appreciate their merit. He understood
something of cambric ; he was very particular
about the delicacy of his own handkerchiefs. He
examined the dozen placed before him  saw that they
were worthy to bestow. He had not thought the two
boxes quite first-rate, but here was a gift worthy of his
little princess. Paying for the ribbon then and the
handkerchiefs, he meekly said, " We shall not need to
have such small things sent, shall we, Helene ? I can
carry this flat box, you the roll of ribbon."

But Madame protested that it would be a pleasure
to her to send the articles, and Sir Charles, yielding to
the modiste's importunity, ordered them, as he had
done the boxes, to Miss Graham's room.

"Are they for me?" inquired the girl, as together
they quitted the modiste's shop.

Yes."

Papa will think I have been greedy," said Helene,
musing.

"Do you like them?" asked her companion, gazing
upon the girl, and struck by the beauty of her hesitating
troubled countenance.

They are lovely ; but papa will say I am too
young to have such handkerchiefs. I like to have
them ; but will he be angry ? "

No," murmured her loving patron.

As together Sir Charles and Helene rather loitered
than walked along the grand place during this trivial
discussion, how little did he know that he was an
object of curiosity, a subject for discussion ! Charles
Daubigny had forgotten that in a corner of the great
square was a public room in which the idle English
gentlemen residing in Bruges met for billiards and
gossip. Some of these poor vacant-minded men were
now gazing from the open windows of the public room.
There was also a little knot of idlers at the doorway.

"Lucky devil," cried one, "was Graham."

"Lucky indeed," muttered another. "I've known
fellows shut up years."

I wish I 'd got such an old prig of a cousin," muttered
a rakish-looking boy, " wouldn't I go along at a
good pace ! "

The gal there 's devilish pretty," drawled out an
insufferable coxcomb. " She '11 be just such another
fast one as her dam."

But we leave these worthies to the glories of their
own discourse.

VOL. 1. D

Avonmoee, the great house wherein for the present weare
about to establish Graham and Helene, was indeed,
as Sir Charles had termed it, a great useless house. It
had been so for many years.

Sir Alfred, as we have mentioned, had met his death
steeple-chasing. His inclination for such sport, his
interest in horse-flesh, had been an inheritance, originating
in, and bequeathed to him by a father who had
carried his sporting propensities to such a length ; who
was so passionately addicted to hunting, racing, and the
like pursuits, that he had found a residence secluded as
Avonmore, and so completely out of the sporting world,
a perfect nuisance.

Avonmore had been built by the ancestor of these
sporting baronets in the reign of Queen Anne, or rather
in her reign it had been completed and decorated. At
this period, the smaller and older habitation, standing
close upon the spot, and which hitherto had been the
family seat, was demolished.

The "great useless house," the more pretentious
residence, was built in the Italian style, and was said
to be a copy of a celebrated villa or palace of that
fairer clime.

There was nothing ancient, nothing picturesque left
at Avonmore. It was but a stately edifice, with an
approach, a portico, a hal], a staircase, suites of apartments,
perfect in their way.

There were, indeed, magnificent forest trees around,
alive with black rooks. The trees had sheltered the
picturesque old house pulled down ; the rooks were
descended from those who had flitted over that.

The father of the man who had been so bent on
making Charles Daubigny a baronet, had felt himself
completely out of his element in this elegantly designed
and appointed mansion. Everything was against him.
His next neighbour on one side was a Catholic Peer,
rigid in devotion, abhorring the life of a sportsman ;
while on the other side of Avonmore was the countryseat
of a great politician, almost always absent from it.

After fretting and pining some time, Sir Thomas 
Tom, that best of fellows,"  took the resolution of a
barbarian, of a Goth. He had no power to sell his
house and estate, and he cared not to let it. He was
rich enough to buy another place, and he bought one
near Newmarket, and transferred thither, from the
hereditary home, whatever he esteemed most valuable.

Hence Avonmore, during the rest of his protracted
existence, and during his son's briefer reign, remained
neglected and tenantless, as we may be sure it had
been since the apathetic Sir Charles had possessed it.

Sir Thomas had married late in the day ; not till
after he had established himself in his new sporting
home. His wife had lived little more than a year after
their marriage. It is doubtful whether she ever saw

University of

H-UN01S LIBRARY

Avonmore. Thus many things had been left in the
house a lady of taste, or a man not barbaric, had certainly
prized,  old china, a library of old books, pictures,
family portraits.

Have we not said that there was nothing picturesque
about the great house wherein for the present Graham
and Helene were to be domiciled? Well, we are not
sure that our description of Avonmore is correct.

Would not some eyes have found the romantic and
the picturesque in this vast and fair Italian-looking
structure ; in its two lofty towers, rising at either end ;
in its central and lower portion, adorned as it was by
balconies and balustrades ; in its palace-like flight of
steps, its imposing portico ; in the great cedar shadowing
; in the mighty elms, alive with rooks, hard by ?
We submit the case as doubtful to our reader's imagination,
and proceed to Graham's future home, the cottage.
Here we are quite certain. The cottage was most
picturesque ; it had been designed entirely with that
view ; it was the realisation of a romantic woman's
dream.

It had been built by the sister of our sporting baronet
the first,  by a woman, though of the same blood,
as unlike sporting Tom as it was possible for woman
to be.

When her father too untimely died, Miss Daubigny
found, as a matter of course, that she no longer had a
real undisputed right to remain in the great house ; and,
having money, she determined forthwith on building
herself a home as near to the hereditary mansion as
might be. Little did she foresee, when the cottage was

designed, when the building commenced and progressed,
that brother Tom, having lost all wholesome restraint,
would presently fly off to Newmarket and leave her incomplete
isolation.

But we are not going into a family history, but towards
the cottage, and now let us wend our way thither.

We are in the principal road of the park ; we have
passed the mansion. On our left we perceive a winding
lane or carriage drive ; we turn down, already we are
charmed. On one side this winding way is bounded
by rocky stones. Every crevice has its proper tenant :
a fir, a silver birch, a fern, enduring yet, though she who
ordered and superintended has been dust or beneath the
cold earth so long. Ivy, too, ivy creeps and steals,
unshorn, untouched, in exquisite neglect.

Oh, who that hath bent them over rocky boundaries
or old stone walls, who is there hath not marvelled over
nature's glory ? How in such places nature revels, loves
to hide ! But we must not be beguiled by fern and moss
and ivy, we must follow the path or drive till it brings
us before Miss Daubigny's cottage.

The winding way grows duskier, more enclosed on
either side, more shadowy. It is thick set with silver
birch, with mountain ash, with dark and silver fir, till
suddenly, how beautifully breaks the home scene upon
the eye ! Yes, as if by magic you find yourself suddenly
within, as it were, a vast semicircle, bounded here by
rock, there by masses of dark evergreens. The cottage,
low, rambling, irregular, and thatched, with ornamental
chimneys rising high, is now, alas ! in a mournful state
of dilapidation.

Its windows, which are most artistic and effective in
shape, lack not rich stained glass, but wildly flap the
red rose branches against their gorgeous tinted panes
and cobwebs half obscure.

Ah, reader, dost thou remember that Charles Daubigny,
when talking to Graham, suggested the addition
of a greenhouse, a verandah? Poor man, when he
visited the cottage, where were his eyes ? The dearest
little conservatory adjoined the morning-room, a verandah
of rustic wood ran round the cottage. The verandah,
indeed, through time and neglect, had in some
places fallen to the ground, and it is possible the rich
man counted one of such humble material as nothing.
Yet its jasmine, its passion-flower, its vine survived.
Climbers once handled, trained so fondly by Miss Daubigny's
own fair hands. Oh, to what neglect had her
dream of romance been subjected ! What in the world
did nephew Sir Alfred care for his dead old maiden
aunt's cottage ? He was up to his ears in betting-books,
jockeys, and boxing-gloves.

And the well-paid but overworked steward, what
cared he ? he had, however, excused himself. He had
muttered, " That such an out-of-the-way place, so far
from London, wasn't likely to be sought after; the rich
wouldn't care for 't and it wasn't suited to the poor."

But we must not quote Mr Mathieson, who was
born and bred to be a steward; we must return to
the man who is to be a steward, despite that nature
seems as it were to protest against it. Ah, yes,
even now comes Graham along the winding way,
Mrs. Bird meekly following, for she remembers Leslie

Graham when he was thought to be such a very fine
fellow, when the young ladies courted his smiles, and
the young gentlemen were proud to be called his
friends. Graham was really noble ; he knew how to be
kind and civil to his inferiors without losing the least
particle of his native loftiness. And as the twain wend
their way towards the cottage, he is discoursing
with Mrs. Bird, who, so long shut up in the gloomy
great house, is quite glad to have some one to talk to
her. And as they wend their way along the lane,
Helene, who was still too much fatigued to venture
out, was writing her postscript, finishing a letter Graham
had promised to write to Sir Charles on his arrival at
Avonmore.

And now the new steward and Mrs. Bird are before
the cottage, and we confess a thrill of disappointment
runs through the stranger's heart as he glances on the
fallen verandah and the cobwebby windows as his mind
gathers in the great work of renovation before him. It
would be many weeks, perhaps two months, he could
see, before the cottage could be restored to order.

Mrs. Bird saw his disappointed look. " You '11 not
think so badly of it, sir, when you 've seen further," she
says, applying the key to the principal door.

And Mrs. Bird was right ; rain, damp, neglect had
not penetrated into the heart of the cottage.

Enough was yet left unhurt, untouched, to show
Graham that he had only to Set his shoulder to the
wheel.

To call in the village painter, and himself to superintend,
to set the village bricklayer to work outside, to

set the gardeners at the great house to restore the
neglected garden, was this a very hard measure
when money was no object, when Sir Charles was
blushing, absolutely blushing at his own want of interest
in the property, and would be so thankful to do
some good in the village ?

Letter written betwixt Graham and Helene the morning
after their arrival at Avonmore : 

"Dear Charles,  As we arranged at parting, I
report our arrival here. We were fortunate enough to
reach Avonmore yesterday evening without having
encountered adventure or mischance.

The worst trifle I have to record, the extreme exhaustion
of Helene ere our tedious journey hither by coach
was ended. I ought perhaps to have had more consideration
for her ; I ought to have put up for a few
hours in London, but a delay there, involving in it the
probability of running against some of my old acquaintances,
would have been so excessively unpleasant.

The girl is all right this morning, has eaten her
breakfast ; but I must confess her inability to taste food,
her faintness on our arrival, a little scared me. Mrs.
Bird was all attention ; in my unfortunate position
your old nurse is an invaluable assistant.

Helene tells me that she wishes to add a few words
to my note, that she also would like to direct it ; I
therefore leave it in her keeping. Should you find
eccentricities in the girl and in her mode of writing
and speaking, call to mind by way of apology the
isolated life she has inevitably led.  Faithfully yours,

"G. E. Leslie Graham."

 Dear Sir Charles, pour moi plus cher St. Louis, 
Papa has written and told you how I was hier au soir.
Madame Bird se proposed et je lai permitted qu'elle me
dishabille et qu'elle me mettre au lit. Je ne savais
moins que rien ce nuit la passee. Mais au matin  a
mon revel, quand mes yeux ont rested sur les rideaux
de lit, sur les rideaux de chamois, three three presque
tout autour, et puis, mes yeux ont traverse la chambre
de lit vaste et morne pours un moment Je fremi. I
could not tell where I was. ' Mais tout-a-coup  tout
presentiment  la "verite s'est m'arrivee/ I murmured.
C'est la maison d'Avonraore. C'est la Palais de St.
Louis, and then Je pense a toi et de tout ce que tu m'a
dit. Je me levis. Je me jetais aux genoux. I asked
peace for you. J'ai prie a Dieu qu'il amende. Oh,
that I were une colombe  a dove. Then tous les
matins a mon revel I would fly to you. Mais on ne
peut pas voler sans ailes, and I can only send you these
poor words. Piepondez ta petite Helene, cher St.
Louis :"

Ix ignorance of the apathy that so long had held Sir
Charles in its thrall, unconscious that his attachment
to her own mother had been the origin, the source of
his melancholy and indifference, Helene wondered much
at her patron's disregard for so noble a residence as
Avonmore.

After musing on the subject, the girl dreamily
inquires of her father, " Is that house Sir Charles uses
as his country home as fine a house as this, papa ?"

No," answers Graham, "it is not; and what is a little
remarkable, there, as here, the old and interesting
building was pulled down by some tasteless blockhead.
However, Brierly has its conveniences. It is much
nearer to London than Avonmore, and it is a really
comfortable house to live in."

"As he never uses this place, papa, why did you
object to remain here ?"

I should have been excessively uneasy here, incapable
of tranquillity," answers Graham, " for many
reasons  reasons which you do not comprehend. One
of these reasons, however, I may as well explain. I
should have lived in perpetual dread of interference,

intrusion, inundation. Charles himself is inoffensive
enough, but he has a set of people hanging on to him
a sister-in-law  my abhorrence." Helene opens
wide her beautiful eyes, and listens intently as Graham
proceeds. " Charles Daubigny had one brother, who
married when extremely young. He was caught at in
despair by a rather jwssde beauty  a girl who had
flirted herself out at the elbows  a girl poor and proud,
who never would have married him had she seen a
better chance. Cyril Daubigny had no fortune; he
merely held a place in a Government office. He died
young. His widow, avaricious, selfish, imperious,
impertinent as she is, contrives, however, to live like
a woman of fashion. Your new acquaintance, Helene,
Charles Daubigny, is a kind of sponge she is for ever
squeezing. By a thousand artful ways he is made to
conduce to her comfort. He is weak enough to support
herself and her family in luxury'

And is he so silly as not to know how artful she
is ? " asks Helene.

He may be conscious of her duplicity, but he is too
apathetic, too careless to resist."

You, papa, do you know this odious woman ?"

"I did know her ; I have witnessed some of her
manoeuvres ; I have smarted under her incivility. I
am satisfied, if she had it in her power, she would dome
any ill office. I am satisfied that if I had occupied
the great house, she would have thrust herself and her
family into it merely to annoy me, to cause me to
decamp. As a bailiff in a small cottage I may possibly
be beneath her notice."

Oh, papa !" cries the girl, as she hears the bitterness
with which her father speaks, " because you are
unhappy, you think that every one hates you."

I know that she hates me."

If she is such a creature," pursues Helene, " how
can Sir Charles like her ?"

I do not say that Charles likes her. He suffers her,
bears with her, as people do with relations. Her son,
Helene, is his heir-expectant ; nay, we may drop the
word expectant, for who can imagine that the dreamy
apathetic invalid will waken up at fifty to marry ?"

He is not fifty," cries Helene. " He is not old. I
wish he would marry and disappoint this son."

Never, Helene ! He is too much depressed, too
ailing, ever to make such an effort."

The young girl now casts her arms lovingly about
her father, as she often did when his temper was ruffled
by memories of the past, and as her head rests on his
shoulder he continues almost as one thinking aloud :
She is a horrid woman, her arrogance and her
duplicity are insufferable. Were she to visit Avon-more,
I should not set foot out of my cottage. I
should remain invisible as a tortoise in its shell.
Helene," he added, half playfully, " you see now why
I am so anxious to have a shell to subside into."

Letter of Charles Daubigny's in reply to Helene's
first attempt, enclosed in a letter of instruction to
Graham : 

My dearest Child,  Although I am much gratified
by your attention in writing to me so soon after
your arrival, and thankful, most thankful for the

prayers you have offered up on my behalf, yet forgive
me if I complain.

Dearest Helene, cease to intermingle French words
and French sentences with your own language. In
writing to me a thousand mistakes would signify
nothing.

I love you so well. I am jealous of the past. I
would have you blot from your memory your foreign
education  the foreign habits of your childhood.

Well, now, I have written that which was in my
mind to write, that which in the wakeful hours of last
night I determined to write. I read it over, and it
weighs painfully upon me.

How ungracious am I to complain ; how possible
that in consequence of what I have written my little
dove may fly off, may take offence ; but when I tell
her that she is for ever present to my memory, when I
tell her that at my awaking, whether it be at midnight
or at morning, my soul soars ever upwards, beseeching
Heaven's best blessings may light upon her, she will
pardon her faithful and loving kinsman,

Lewis C. Daubigny."

Pes.  Against the cottage is ready I promise to my
little dove a bed, or rather a bedstead, not hung with
curtains of heavy cra?noisi, but with curtains flowered
outside, lined with silk, couleur che rose, also some
pictures and an escritoire.

Let me hear how you get on with Mrs. Bird. She
is a good and faithful creature. Be kind to her."

Helene's answer to Sir Charles : 

Tu as demande que la petite colombe se grnir

toujours a 1' Anglais. Helas ! Je ne saurais faire
impossible. Ainsi cher Saint Louis ce lettre ci, n'est
quin lettre adieu.

Mais que je suis ignorante, and know not how to
spell English, la faute c'est seulement la mienne. Tune
blame pas mon papa. Souvent  quand je fus
enfant ; quand je fus petite fille, II se mit, a m'en-
signer. Mais I would cry ' II ne me plaire pas de
faire cela.' ' Je ne veux pas ' et puis je me s'enfuir,
je me se cache. Papa a perdu la patience. He said
he would not try.

Ah ! since I have been plus agee il y a ete trop de
chagrin pour lui faire l'efforte, son coeur a ete blesse,
declare. Nous nous avons que des feuilles mortes,
des spines. II me souvent dit que pour lui la rose
s'est faerie, s'est tombde.

Ainsi je ne sais a peu pres de rien. Ni la langage
de ce pays-ci, ni la langage de ces pays la ou nous
avons contempt sojourner.

Mais il y a encore autre langage  langage du coeur
des senses. Ah ! refreshment voila il n'y a ni des
lettres ni des mots, ni des regis. Les senses sont
libre. Ceci c'est mon propre langage. Et je n'oublerai
jamais faire les pieces pour St. Louis, quand meme je
ne lui point ecrire."

Answer of Sir Charles to the girl's second letter : 

"My dearest Child,  Your letter received this
morning I hasten to answer. It disturbs me extremely;
it shows how unreasonable I have been. But, Helene,
it is my unfortunate nature ever to be making mistakes.
It seems I was born to be a foe to my own

j

peace. Yet when you could talk to me so easily,
so rapidly in our own language, how was I to imagine
that you were unable to spell and to write it ? My
child, let us go back a step. Forget that I ever interdicted
the French. I shall only be too happy to have
my little dove cooing to me again in its own natural
way.

Do not forget me ; do not omit the morning
prayer. Helene, I picture to myself (oh, let not hope
deceive me !), I picture to myself you, at your awaking,
kneeling by the great bed of chamois. Henceforth, my
child, because you are its inhabitant, henceforth the
room hung with chamois will be precious to your
faithful kinsman, Charles L. Daubigny."

My reader, if I ever have one, will already have
perceived how impassioned is becoming the attachment
of Sir Charles to the girl. He who for years had, as it
were, been wandering in a barren arid desert, had
suddenly lighted on a fountain with bright verdure
round it ; or shall we rather say that he who had long
gazed but on a sad, a gloomy sky, had suddenly beheld
a rainbow, " the bow 'mid the cloud," beautiful in itself,
and giving promise for the future ?

Sir Charles, it is true, had near relations. He had
indeed very early lost his nearest relative, an only
brother, but that brother, as we have heard Graham
relate to Helene, had left a widow and children.

There was nothing, however, attractive or interesting
now to Charles Daubigny in any one member of this
family. His sister-in-law, arrogant, managing, and

rapacious, had always domineered over our gentle
and sensitive master. The great business of her
life had seemed to be to make him subservient to
herself.

His nieces were like two little puppets in the hands
of their mother, while his nephew, who as a boy had
been very clear to him, of late  as he had advanced
towards manhood  had given so many proofs of utter
worthlessness, that Sir Charles endeavoured to keep
him out of his mind as much as possible. But never
for any length of time was our poor baronet permitted
to forget his relationship. The young fellow's extravagance
was endless, we had almost said boundless, and
the uncle's charity and mercy and pity alone had saved
him again and again from open shame.

The widowed mother, Mrs. Cyril Daubigny, though
more restrained by prudence, was by nature scarce
better than her son. Nay, perhaps the mother had
even more of craft, had a worse heart than the heir-expectant.


Feeling perfectly secure, feeling perfectly certain that
Sir Charles would never marry, the lady affected but
little humility. Not contented with the thousand a
year her brother-in-law generously allowed her, she
was ready at any time to lay before him a lengthy
account sent in by her dressmaker, or, in more elevated
language, by her modiste, her court milliner. Occasionally,
too, she would rush in with a note from her
wine merchant, the usually patient man demanding
instant payment.

The fact was that Mrs. Cyril lived amongst people of

fashion and fortune, and thus required a style of living
her moderate allowance could by no means support.

A carriage of her own Mrs. Cyril could not afford,
and she deemed this inconvenience as perfectly immaterial.


Sir Charles had several carriages, and two pairs of
good and useful carriage horses. Incessantly she borrowed,
incessantly she made use of his vehicles and his
animals, ordering her brother-in-law's coachman with
peremptory authority. But not only the stables and
the coach-house did she invade; his kitchen must be her
kitchen whenever it suited her to give an entertainment.
From that must be forthcoming her excellent
and recherches dinner. Mrs. Cyril had contrived to fix
her own place of residence within a few doors of her
brother-in-law's London house. What a convenience !
In the dusk of eve how was our unconscious master's
furniture made to migrate ; if an extra bath for a visitor
were required, if more chairs, another sofa for an evening
party, if ornaments, if flowers to decorate, how sped
they over the trifling intervening space, and once in
Mrs. Cyril's keeping, were these goods and chattels
always faithfully returned ? .

Sir Charles had grown so indifferent, moreover,
Heaven had given him so gentle a nature  a nature so
averse to arguments, to disputes, that rather than say
a word he would .submit. Perhaps he was not always
so ignorant of these petty thefts as he chose to appear.
Eliza, his cook and housekeeper, was niece to old
Mrs. Bird, and on account of Eliza's connection with
the faithful nurse of his early years, he was wont to

VOL. I. E

be more familiar with her than he otherwise would
have been.

It was nearly the end of September before the work-people
were fairly doing their utmost to put the cottage
in order. Does my reader know what village work-people
are, especially when the village wherein they
dream and vegetate happens to be more than a
hundred miles distant from London ?

Our poor steward's heart almost fainted within him
at delay after delay, created now by lack of material
precisely to match that which so long ago had been
used, now by lack of tools to execute, but more often
by want of brains.

Perforce he must use his own brains, and strange
enough was all manner of work to them. His hands
he never did use, he never had used, save to handle oar,
or rein, or rod, or gun.

December came, and dare he in the midst of snow,
of flood, of damp, take his little Helene to the half-new
cottage ? For indeed so much had to be done when
the workmen came to overhaul, that a great deal of
mortar, of cement, of putty was yet reeking with its
noisome moisture. Moreover, the whole cottage smelt
of paint. Wisely Graham listened to the vivid remonstrances
made by Sir Charles. Yes, he gave his word
to the girl's loving patron that Helene should be suffered
to remain at the great house until early spring.

And what an advantage such delay proved to Graham
himself ! Now that the actual labour was over, he could
quietly superintend the pleasant part of arrangement
within doors and without.

Mrs. Bird had had secret and special orders from her
master to inform him of whatever was required at the
cottage  of the curtains needed, the carpets, the beds, the
bedsteads ; and Sir Charles, with a touch of feminine
tenderness that was a part of his peculiar nature, had
gone to his own upholsterer's and selected such articles
as he deemed best suited to the elegant, though rural
and small abode.

By the-end of March the steward's cottage was pronounced
ready in every respect, and oh ! how pretty it
was. If a heart could have rejoiced in a cottage home,
here truly was one to rejoice in. But Graham's heart,
as he believed, was broken past repair ; while Helene
had taken such a fancy to la maison Tanjore, she
fain had stayed there for ever.

She loved to wander through the vast and echoing
suites of apartments now but partially furnished.

With what interest she gazed on the portraits of
court ladies and fine gentlemen which sporting Tom,
as though by accident, had left reposing on the walls !

She loved the old oval mirrors with fantastic gilded
festoons around them, articles this famous Nimrod of
the past had deemed too brittle for transmission.

Here and there the girl found a seat, a quaint old
gilded sofa, a few time-worn chairs remained ; there was
left, too, a harpsichord.

As may be imagined, the sporting baronet had no
taste for books. Hence the library at the great house
remained despoiled, it was rich in old romances, it
was richer still in wicked, witty comedies  comedies
full of love and intrigue. To this silent and deserted

room our little Gipsy often stole to bear from it a volume,
which if her George had seen he had forbidden her to
read.

Ah ! how rapidly now progressed her English; under
such masters as Wycherley, Congreve, Vanbrugh.
English became easy, easier every week, and love and
intrigue to the mind of the too precocious child, the
child of earth, became familiar.

Yet still a child, a very child, Helene found other
pastimes at Avonmore. Mrs. Bird had been instructed
by Sir Charles to supply his jproUgde with whatever
amusement the long deserted house afforded.

And Mrs. Bird remembered that in one of its
chambers were chests of drawers in which lay hidden
dresses, rich dresses, of antique material and shape.

In this chamber, amid these glittering shrouds of the
dead, Helene often, like a very butterfly, disported
herself.

The girl had indeed found a kind of fairyland in
the Daubignys' deserted home, and as we shall see by
her letter written to its owner the night before she left
it, she was loath to leave.

Letter written by Helene to Sir Charles the night
before she left Avonmore : 

Ce nuit ci est la dernier de notre sejour a la
maison d'Avonmore. Demain jusqu'a dix heures du
matin nous partons pour la petite chaumiere. Et
pense tu que je men irai sans regret ? Helas ! il n'est
pas possible, et toutes les fois que J'y reflect, a chaque
instant que l'idee c'est renouvele ; il y a au coeur
une douleur positif.

I shall try to like ray new home ; but I do not
like the house-keeping, which papa tells me I must
learn. I never shall, I told him so. He has been
cross about it. I will not think, at least to-night, d un
telle horreur. I will rather think of the dear little
chambre au lit et de tout ce que tu m'a donne pour
faire l'interessante.

Des tableaux, des rideaux de lit ferre, de escritoire,
du miroir de toilette. I shall love it all very
very much, yet a mon revel I shall still seem to see
la chambre ou je me fus couches a la maison d' Avon-more,
les rideaux de chamois, les centres de si grand
hauteur, le plafond brillant des festons donee. Voila
les memoires fort cher. Oh ! J'ai trouve beaucoup
me plaire et m'amuser a la grande maison, et toutes
les jours je m'y promenerai pour voter Madame Bird.

I shall wander through les apartment vaste et
morne Je chanterai, Je toucherai le vieux clavecin, et
leech, leech seulement repliquerai a la gemissant de
la pauvre petite tourterelle.

Dites, moi cher St. Louis, dites moi pourquoi, pour
quel raison tu absentee jamais, toujours d'une si belle
residence ? Viens tu avec l'ete prochaine  viens tu
avec les fleurs pour faire le bonheur de ta petite amie,

Helexe."

That which natural curiosity could not bring about,
that which a sense of duty, of responsibility, had failed
to effect, seemed very likely to be accomplished by the
entreaty of a mere child. The apathy that yielded
not before the mirthful ridicule of his nephew, that
could not be penetrated by the sarcasms, the remarks
of others more potential, a single sentence of Helene's
seemed very like to dissipate.

"Dites moi, cher Saint Louis, dites moi pourquoi
tu s'absentirai jamais d'une si belle residence ?" Yes,
after receiving this letter from the girl, Charles Daubigny
began to entertain a notion of, began to look
forward to, becran to cherish an idea of a visit to
Avonmore.

Yet he could not but feel that Graham's presence
must inevitably cast a dark shadow, must be as a
lowering cloud above him. Yet if there were not this
cloud in his sky there would be no rainbow in it, and
for the girl's sake he determined to endeavour to
reduce, to coerce, to annihilate his long-cherished
sensibility.

Henceforth there was a desire, an inclination, a
feeling his way,  hints in his letters that in the coming

autumn it was just possible he might make a visit to,
make a short stay at Avonmore.

Yes, Sir Charles did think of it ; he even made a
step further in advance, he sent some furniture down
for Mrs. Bird to arrange against his coming. Yet,
after all, the master never came.

Perhaps to the hints he had let fall in his letters to
Helene of his intended visit, he thought there should
have been a kindly, a warm response on Graham's part,
in Graham's own handwriting, whereas Graham scarcely
touched upon the subject. Perhaps he had wanted,
and had waited vainly, for an excuse, an occasion.

We have only to tell that the year ended and the
master never came.

And the new year dawned, and for Helene and for
Graham was slowly, monotonously stealing on, the
master's visit, still unmade, still deferred, becoming, as
it would seem, a thing less and less likely to be
accomplished.

'Twas April  April, with its smiles, its tears, its
gleams of sunshine, its sudden gusts of wind. 'Twas
April, with its snowy buds of purity, its rosy buds of
promise, its soft unfolding leaves. The cuckoo called,
the chaffinch gave his bursts of short and thrilling
song. The garden warbler had arrived, one swallow
had returned, the bat was seen to flit at eve.

Thus was it when our Helene claimed to be fifteen.

Yes, 'twas in this changeful month that Helene
Yane, in exile, in seclusion, had given birth to this her
only child, offspring of sin and passion,  to this child,
whose very existence had been ignored by the stern,

the wise, and the good. The brand of illegitimacy was
upon the girl, and the notoriety of the case, of the trial
that followed, the eloquence of the learned counsel for
and against, the ruinous sum adjudged to be paid by
the sinner, had set a fiercer mark than usual, had
burnt the brand of shame more deeply in.

And shall we marvel if this child of earth gives early
token of the burning source from whence she sprung ?
Shall we marvel if we find our Helene, like the Arab or
the Indian maiden, woman in heart, in soul, in form,
when other English girls are deemed to be but children ?
This April Helene was no more a child, wholly, positively
; yet changeful as the month that brought her
birthday, she at times would cast away precocity and
wisdom.

Ah, must we tell it ? Yes, we must. The girl had
lately made sad secret strides in knowledge. When her
father went his daily rounds of duty, how would she
steal to Avonmore, returning to the cottage laden with
the English play, the French romance, he certainly had
bade her not to read !

Her heart, her mind, were thus awaked, thus prepared
for mischief. She had been feeding on romance
and love until her dreams by night repeated that that
she had read by day. Ofttimes in airy vision of the
night she was herself the heroine.

Such was the state of things in April, and May,
that fairer, warmer month, arrived, and ere it had
expired, ere June had come, a change was wrought in
Helene's life that presently should launch her on a
sea of danger. We will not give a long wordy history

of the past to show how this change could come
about. Better we give Graham's letter written to Sir
Charles.

You found me, Charles, at Bruges a mere stranded
wreck; storm and tempest had well-nigh done their
worst.

But the crazy vessel, lifted from its peril, no longer
lashed by the fury of the waves, might yet endure.

"How grateful has my soul been for the haven
provided by your courtesy, your generosity ! How have
I trusted never to be tempted from it ! Such a ruined
hulk is far too crazy for the ocean of life.

But there comes a call, an order, sudden, improbable,
unlooked for.

The old shattered craft, forsooth, is ordered out for
service; may no longer ride at anchor in the rest
and security of Avonmore.

"A letter just received bids me to the world again,
and fills my soul with indescribable agitation.

You remember the old aunt whose proUgi and pet
I once was. You remember to have heard, perhaps,
that at a particular period of my life, this pattern lady
chose to withdraw her affections from me, chose to
disavow her previous good intentions towards me.

Many, many years have passed since she has deigned,
by word or deed, to acknowledge my existence. Imagine
my surprise, then, when two days since the old familiar
characters greeted my sight.

She writes, telling me that she has reason to believe
that her days are numbered ; that, as a last resource, asa
last hope of prolonging life, she is advised to visit

the south of France. She asks whether I choose to
accompany her thither ; whether, late as it is, even
at the eleventh hour, there may not exist betwixt us
cordiality, affection? She would fain restore me to
the position I once occupied.

You will see nothing as yet in this letter to account
for the painful impression it has made on my mind.
I have yet to explain that appended to the letter is a
singularly offensive postscript, wherein I may say my
child's very existence is ignored. If I would receive
this woman's blessing, if I desire a restoration of the
love and confidence once existing betwixt us, if I
care to succeed her at Wodebourne Grange, she beseeches
that I will come to her alone, unaccompanied by that
token so bitterly to recall the past. 'Let me live
says she, ' my few last days, oblivious as possible of a
circumstance, a scandal, which even yet at times
appears to me incredible.' I had scarce read this
woman's letter, when, obeying a natural impulse, I sat
down to answer it, declining (on the terms she proposed)
attending her in her journey.

I was reading my own letter over, and as I did so
I confess that my hand trembled with rage, my face I
dare say gave evidence, too, of my indignation. Thus
was I when Helene came into my presence, and gazed
on me with astonishment.

' Papa, papa,' cried she, f what is it ? Oh, you
have been writing a letter. I know you have written
something in a passion, something that tomorrow you
will regret. Oh, dearest, dearest she continued, clasping
her fond arms about me, ' only wait. If you could

but see your own fierce eyes, your lips Oh, it shall

not go !' she cried, seizing the letter.

' It shall I answered, but as I spoke my heart
commenced that fearful fluttering I now so often suffer
from ; for the moment I was done. ' It is thai, 3 she said,
motioning with one hand towards the letter, while with
the other she held the hartshorn to me. ' Oh, be
persuaded, only consider,' and her cheek rested on
mine, and she rained kisses on me.

 When you are so angry,' she presently continued,
really, really you hardly know. Oh that you would
just speak to some one !'

' Who is there,' I cried, ' to speak to ? Child, I have
not a friend on earth.'

 Not one,' she said, ' not one. Oh, though he comes
not, St. Louis is your friend.'

' Thine, child,' I answered.

' Then, if he so loves me, he will bid you have reason.
Do not write what he would say was wrong.'

' Poor thing, poor clear, how little knew she that it
was her existence, her ignored existence, that had so
wounded my soul.'

' Will you ask him, papa  papa, for I am sure it
must be something serious puts you thus out ?'

I smiled through my rage. I knew that the woman's
antipathy to the girl would make her odious to yourself
as to me.

' I will,' I said. ' Yes, I will write to Charles
Daubigny.'

I meant to write to you, but could not, yesterday.
I had intense headache. I ask you now what answer

must I return. Must I submit ? Must I go sneaking
like a whipped hound ? My rebel nature still holds
out ; yet have I been so luckless, or so unwise through
life, I will, whatever it costs me, abide by your decision.
I know but too well that to refuse this woman's dying
request is to cast away my last chance.

Take time to consider. Eemember that though I

o

am but your steward now, in receipt of wages for my
poor services, yet remember I am safe from molestation.
The girl is tranquil  secure from evil. I go,
and God only knows what may turn up.  Waiting your
advice, believe me, ever faithfully yours,

G. K. Leslie Graham."

Oh, what was this ! Dare we say of a man approaching
fifty, of a man with a somewhat wrinkled face,
dare we say that his heart danced with joy, that sunlight
shed its golden glory o'er his soul, that the
clouds rolled away, and left the rainbow vivid to his
sight ?

"Oh God!" cried Charles Daubigny in his infatuation.
Oh God ! Thou slowest me mercy and light." Yes,
how light seemed to dawn, how w T as his way defined !
how had that occasion, that opportunity he had so
longed for, arrived ! He would take up his abode at
Avonmore during Graham's absence. How easy it all
was now T ! He would be the girl's daily companion.
How happy he was in possessing Oiseau, as Helene
playfully termed his faithful nurse !

Our poor baronet's hand actually trembled from the
various emotions of his mind, as rapidly, eagerly, almost

immediately he answered Graham's letter, bidding him
fly to his aunt, and without delay.

But how pale was his cheek after passing through
such sudden agitation ; how absent, how distracted was
his manner, when, about four o'clock in the afternoon,
his sister-in-law entered the house, and found him still
dreaming in the library.

Mrs. Cyril Daubigny, observing that her brother-in-law
had less colour than usual, took the opportunity of
endeavouring to impress on her victim the hopelessness
of his condition,

Have you seen your doctor lately, Charles ? Really
you look like a walking ghost." Without waiting for
an answer, the amiable lady continued, " If you have
not seen him, if you have not consulted him, I 'm sure
you ought to do so immediately ; he might perhaps
suggest some remedy. You know the value of your
life to us all,  the anxiety we naturally feel."

I am infinitely obliged to you, Augusta, indeed, for
your kind feelings," replied Charles Daubigny, scarcely
able to repress a smile ; " but I hope at present your
affection somewhat exaggerates the evil."

Oh, that is always your unfortunate way ; procrastination,
apathy, indifference about everything. Yes,
you will suffer the little remaining strength you have to
waste, and seek a remedy when it may be just too late."

Well, Augusta, happily I am in a position to offer
you some consolation. I am about to try a remedy,
one, with my usual indifference as you term it, I have
been only dreaming over for months past."

Mrs. Cyril Daubigny gazed on her brother-in-law,

first with a sarcastic sneer, which, however, was succeeded
presently by an expression of genuine surprise.

Pray let me hear," she cried. " I do, indeed,
expect something wonderful. A cup of arrow-root at
eleven, to be set before you a basin of beef-tea,
each of which, by the way, might stand before you
untasted for ever if some person  "

No, indeed," cried Charles Daubigny, interrupting
the lady, " not so trifling a remedy. I had intended
mentioning it, my intention of trying it I mean. Perhaps
you may recollect that some months ago, when I
really did feel ill, my medical man advised change of
air, but more particularly change of thought and scene.
I am about, for a time, to try a complete change. It
is my intention, my present intention, to make some
stay at Avonmore, to bestow some care on that poor,
neglected place."

Dear me," exclaimed Augusta, " this is a surprise !
I thought, Charles, by your own account, you had
placed a complete barrier there. Have you then dismissed
our disreputable cousin; has he been swindling,
absconding with your rents?"

Good God, Augusta," cried Sir Charles, his features
lighting up with indignation, " how can you imagine,
and if you do imagine, how can you give utterance to
such a slander ? Graham was ever honest, scrupulously
correct about money."

Oh, pardon me, my dear brother, but see what
changes do come about. If you who abhorred and
abjured your cousin, can patronise and trust that
cousin, fallen from his right place in the world, tempted

by beggary, may be guilty of the basest of acts. Circumstances
have an immense influence on our morality.
Tell me at least, have you dismissed the man ?"

I have not dismissed Graham, but his presence is
required by a dying relative, and during his absence
from Avonmore I shall make it my place of residence."

"And who may this dying relative be ?" asked Mrs.
Cyril.

"I do not feel authorised, I do not think it right
exactly to go into particulars."

Well, really now, and so you grow confidential,
and you correspond privately with Graham. Have a
care, Charles ; surely you are bewitched."

I am ready to grant that there may appear great
incongruity in my conduct to you who cannot comprehend,"
answered Charles Daubigny, evidently distressed
by the keen gaze fixed upon him ; then added, as if determined
to put an end to his sister-in-law's remarks
and inquiries, " Augusta, it is a subject too painful
to me, I must indeed beg, if you value my affection,
that you will cease to inflict  " He paused ; he might
have added, a further torture, but he expected a sarcastic
reply.

Audacious as was this high-born lady, she was seldom
blind to her own interest, and now she could see
by her brother-in-law's manner that she might venture
too far. Ill indeed could she afford to be on bad terms
with him. Affecting a playfulness that she by no means
felt, with feminine adroitness she cried out, " Oh, for
the future, Charles, you may thoroughly depend upon
me. I will religiously respect this little peculiarity; and,

indeed, when I entered the house, the furthest thing
from my thoughts was our ruined blase" cousin, whose
relationship, whose consanguinity, by the way, I never
choose to confess to my children. Here on this last
point I am not treading on forbidden ground ; am I,
eh?"

"You are only doing precisely that that Graham
would most desire you should do. He has the greatest
possible dislike to be identified with his former self."

How fortunate that I have been able, or rather I
should say, that I have been careful, to oblige your
steward ! " remarked the lady, laughing ; and as she
smilingly stood before the poor baronet, carefully
rouged and got up, even at this late period of her life
Augusta looked a handsome woman.

There," continued she, holding out her delicately
formed hand, which glittered with the rings Sir Charles
perforce at various times had paid for, " There, Charles,
aren't we friends now ? And now, as your darling Pepys
would say, ' So to business,' my business, that that
brought me hither, nothing funereal. May I ask a
little favour ?"

Sir Charles was not so very young, he thought it
wiser to simulate. With an air of playful gallantry he
took the hand she held out, and asked what she
required.

"I came merely to inquire about the carriage tonight.
Your coachman tells me that one of the horses is
too ill to be used. One pair is therefore defunct ; what
I want to know is this, Do you use the other pair ?
Are you going out anywhere this evening ? "

Nowhere ; I have no engagement."

Then I may tell Wells to call for me ? You do not
mind ?" added Augusta. " You do not think I am encroaching?"
This was said with a view of obliterating
her previous remarks.

"You are quite welcome to the carriage. When do
I object to any reasonable service?"

Augusta feared there was a touch of acrimony, of
suppressed feeling in her brother-in-law's tone and
manner. She wished to be easy with him ere she left,
and she had some curiosity about his visit to Avon-more.
She turned towards him with one of her most
winning looks, asking, " Will you take my two girls to
Avonmore ? I 'in sure they 'd be delighted to go. Let
me persuade you, Charles."

By no means," retorted he. " The care I should
feel, the impossibility of finding the slightest amusement
for my nieces, would so worry me that I should
come away anything but improved ; no, I shall go
alone. Mrs. Bird, you know, is there ; she will see to
the little I require."

You are going to play the hermit, the recluse.
However, I must be mute," so again holding out the
little be-ringed hand, " Good-bye."

The poor worried man, the master of so many
thousands a year, yet so complete a slave, took the
proffered hand ; nay, he did more, he saw his sister-in-law
out of the hall door. They parted in all outward
and visible good feeling.

VOL. I.

When Graham had received Charles Daubigny's reply,
when he felt that indeed he ought to, he must go, there
was a heavy weight added to the burden always
oppressing him.

Since her mother's death Helene had never been
parted from him except when he had been in the prison
at Bruges, and the idea of their coming separation
brought this sad short epoch in his existence too vividly
before him. And when presently he should have to
discourse with the girl on the necessity of his absence,
the same memory, the same painful feeling must needs
be awakened in her now tranquil mind.

But he must speak. " Helene," he said, " you wanted
to know something about that letter I received,  why
it so disturbed me."

I don't care now, parceque le soleil luit les gauges
sont passes."

"Why do you speak to me in French?" asked
Graham ; " the clouds have not passed."

"What is it?" cried the girl, startled by the tone
in which her father spoke. "What is it?" cried she,
getting up and circling her arms about his neck, and
gazing into his deep ami mournful eyes.

Helene," he answered, "we are to part; I have that
to do which calls me away."

"Oh, papa!" exclaimed the girl, her young cheek
losing its bright colour as the most terrible memory of
her life returned.

It is nothing bad takes me hence, nothing you need
dread ; the whim, or rather the command, of an old
lady." And Graham tried to smile, to lessen the terror
his words had called up.

Are you sure, George ? Are you speaking all the
truth ?" cried Helene in a voice that trembled.

Quite sure that I am speaking all the truth."

Then why do you go ? Don't go."

"Helene, this old lady has it in her power to make
my position, your position, more tolerable, that is, if
money can bring satisfaction. She tells me that her
days will be few on earth ; she entreats me to come. I
fear I have been an ungrateful nephew. Once she was
very kind. A circumstance, an event in my past life,
grieved and offended her. We quarrelled ; the fault was
wholly mine. She wishes for a perfect reconciliation.
Can I refuse to go ?"

You shall go," said the girl, who still leant on
Graham's shoulder ; " you shall go. Je ne souhaiterai
aucun au contraire. Mais moi, oh ! Je ne puis souffrir
ton absence. !Not here ; I must not stay here. I must
go and stay with Oiseau."

Just what I wished to hear you say. Yes ; I can
depend on Mrs. Bird ; I know that she will do everything
she can to make you comfortable ; and  and it
is just possible that Charles Daubigny may, during my
absence, pay a short visit to Avonmore."

"All, non!" murmured the girl with a little air of
petulance, her rosy lips showing something of disdain.
J'y pense autrefois, mais l'idee s'est passee. Je ne
men soucie plus."

Graham thought it quite possible that the apparently
apathetic master might never arrive, might never fulfil
his pronounced intention ; he therefore answered
nothing,  made no attempt to soothe the wounded
vanity of the little maiden.

As if he had scarce noticed her allusion to Sir Charles,
he returned to the previous subject of discourse  the
stay at the great house  the necessity there would be of
at once apprising Mrs. Bird of Helene's desire to be under
her protection  to be at Avonmore. He was presently
taking his way thither, and finding Mrs. Bird, entered at
once on the subject. The good old nurse smilingly
assured him that she had already commenced airing
Miss Helene's bed ; that she had had notice of the
young lady's visit hours and hours ago. Sir Charles
himself had written. "And he tells me, sir, that he thinks
of coming himself too. Oh, sir, what a deal of good it
would do me to have him as was once so dear with me
again ! And sure it '11 do him good to get away a bit ;
he is so thralled and hampered. Mrs. Cyril do so keep
him down. My niece, sir, writes she do lead him such a
life ; his house and nothing in it, as one may say, is his
own. Sometimes Lizzie says she really thinks he'll
rebel; she has seen him once or twice quite on the stilts."

And Graham was gone, and Helene once more occupied
the great chamber she loved at Avonmore.

"When she awoke the first morning after her arrival,

there was something of confusion in her mind. Was ita
dream ? She gazed betwixt the heavy curtains of
chamois, and saw the sunlight streaming through the
three hautes centres. She looked upwards and her
eyes rested on the lofty ceiling, rich with flowers and
festoons cords. She loved to be where she was. She
loved Avonmore, yet as consciousness, as memory
thoroughly returned, we cannot say that the girl experienced
a perfect satisfaction.

The room brought St Louis vividly before her.
She thought of all the tenderness he had manifested towards
her ; but she also thought of his promised visit
unfulfilled, and there was a sense of pain, a feeling
almost akin to resentment, mingling with her affection
and her gratitude. She had no means of penetrating,
no power of reading his hidden secret ; she could not
tell that the presence of her father must of necessity be
painful to him, that it could but add to his usual depression.
Neither could she divine that had Graham
pressed him to do so, despite the uneasiness he might
have experienced, he would have ventured  his promise
had been fulfilled.

Helene was sensitive almost as her patron ; when
month after month had passed, and he came not, her
letters dwindled into notes ; with time the notes fell
to be a mere line or two, and latterly the correspondence
had wholly ceased.

The girl did indeed awake that morning as one in a
dream. There was a kind of mystery around her which
as a child she had not so much noticed, had not cared
nor sought to unravel ; but now, advanced in age,

precocious as she was, her faculties aroused by her.
father's explanation of his sudden departure, she could
not but desire to gain some further knowledge ; she
wanted light whereby to read her own position.

At various times she had found Oiseau to be well
acquainted with her own father's history ; and we
need scarcely add that the whole story of Charles
Daubigny's life was graven on his nurse's memory.
But, with her customary heedlessness or volatility,
Helene had scarcely listened to these tales of " auld
lang syne."

Now, however, after she had breakfasted, her mind
full of unrest, she purposely touched the chord and spoke
of the past ; and the nurse, whose isolated life, whose
compelled silence was very irksome to her, was
presently delightedly recounting a hundred trifling
circumstances, a few more striking tales, how deeply
interesting to her listener.

Helene presently learned that Sir Charles had been
deeply in love with her mother ; that her mother had
married,  " Not papa ? " and the good Oiseau must
needs hesitate, but her hesitation convinced Helene
that here was the mystery, and she succeeded in
bringing so much of the truth to light that it fell like
a weight on her heart ; it sent a thrill of pain right
through her, yet she had not gained the whole or
the worst. The burning brand, her parents' illicit
connection, had set upon her that yet was hidden.
But her mother had left her proper home, her good
old husband. This was enough  too much. It told
her why she was never recognised or noticed by her

father's or her mother's relations ; why her father
was ever so deeply sad.

Helene had heard so much, that she was glad to
run away and shut herself up in the great hed chamber.
How beautiful she looked as she paced restlessly to and
fro beneath the festons torts ! She recapitulated, she
went over all that Oiseau had, willingly or unwillingly,
supplied. Her young cheek burnt now with shame,
now with pride, her father's pride, and at length
casting herself on the bed, shadowed by its curtains of
chamois, she w T kept there her first flood of bitter, of
impassioned tears. At length the thunder shower was
over ; she sat up on the bed, her rich golden-tinted
hair all wild and tear-bedewed ; and the memory of
St. Louis, the memory of his injunction to pray always,
ever, for hope, for aid, came like a healing balm.
Tears, softer, gentler, stole dow T n her glowing cheeks,
and, kneeling by the bedside, she implored God to
give her patience, to show her that love denied to herby
the world ; she asked for a beam, a ray of that
humility that had characterised the Son of God, the
Son of Mary. She asked that the lowliest of God's
angels might be suffered to watch over her. " I am so
little worthy," cried the girl, " that I may scarce dare
look upwards, but Thou dost not despise the simple."

Of so volatile a nature was Helene, so capricious or
so whimsical, that before two days had passed (for the
present) she had banished from her mind, she had laid
aside, the painful knowledge she had gained from Mrs.
Bird. We watch her movements, and we see her
stealing into the library at Avonmore. By Graham's
absence, rendered fearless of rebuke or intrusion, she
may now at her leisure devour any quantity of pernicious
literature, and now bends the young and
beautiful countenance over a poem teeming with
passion ; now is it moved almost to laughter over a
play full of wit, of wickedness, and intrigue.

But the girl cannot read all day, and ever and anon
she starts up, and without hat or gloves, with no
parasol to shade her from the sun, she flits through
the gardens, or roams in the park of Avonmore.

Helene's beauty was real beauty, and that that had
diminished another's charms but heightened hers. The
sunburn but gave a richer tint to her complexion. The
wind, tossing her long silky brown hair, but added to
her fascination. She would come in laden with flowers,
and leaves, and grasses ; she would take to arranging

these, which she had gathered alike from parterre, or
sunny glade, or tangled brake, with a taste native to
her. She would set aside a spray of ivy, a tendril, a
few leaves of the vine or the woodbine, wherewith to
bind her own young brow. And  must we say it? Yes,
faithfully to delineate, we must, for vanity was a part
of Helene's nature. When the ivy twined amidst her
golden-tinted hair, or the vine or the woodbine circled
around her sunny brow, she would gaze at her own
reflection in the glass, more than satisfied by the
picture. She would sigh over her own isolation, and
regret that no other eyes were near to gaze upon her
rich and sun-ripe beauty.

One morning, soon after our Helene had become
again a resident at the great house, she awoke to find
it pouring with rain. Never fond of needle-work,
tired of reading for ever, she must needs take to perambulating
the vast and echoing suites of apartments.
The day proved continuously wet, and in the afternoon
Oiseau, anxious to relieve its monotony, inquires
of the girl whether she will have the key of the old
chest of drawers, wherein were kept those relics of the
past which formerly had so amused her.

Helene assents, takes the offered key, runs off, and
still a child, capricious as a very child  ere long
resumes her former favourite pastime. Since Helene
had last played with these tokens, these shrouds of the
dead, Oiseau had put them into better order. The girl
opens a drawer ; in it she finds a collection of fans and
the toilet of a bride,  the white satin petticoat, the
white dress with its ample train, the rich lace veil.

She gazes, she sighs. These things tell of a luxury
destiny has denied to her, a luxury she covets.

She opens another, a lower drawer, wherein are
garments of many colours, and better suited to her
childish purpose ; from this she abstracts a dress of
straw-coloured silk, brocaded with rosebuds, with rosebuds
still blushing pink and red. She also takes a
quilted satin petticoat ; this dress she had played with
long before, and in it were the ruffles she had then
tacked in ; but to be perfect, she must have powder.
Ah ! she remembers the old powder-box, a powder-box
of material obsolete ; a pasteboard-box, covered with
satin and gold lace. It is found, puff in it and
powder too. Ah, what a token of the dead ! But the
girl stays not to moralise, she is only bent on arraying
herself; she stands before a long glass let into the wall,
and having brought with her a brush and comb and
some ribbon, she brushes her floating curls off her sunny
brow, forms them into a toupee, leaving only two
waving locks to fall into her shoulders. Then the
toupee is sprinkled with powder. Ah ! now is our little
Gipsy divesting herself in readiness. Off goes her own
dress. She stands before the long glass now with buta
short white skirt and bare arms ; next, the quilted
petticoat is assumed, then the dress seme of rosebuds
is put over that, the long, stiff, whalebone stomacher
is laced, and Helene beholds in the glass a very elegant
lady of the olden time.

That dress seme of rosebuds that formerly had
been too large at the bosom, now fits as though it were
made but yesterday for its present occupant; that

petticoat that used to trail 011 the ground, now is just
the thing.

The girl, with a fan in her hand, glides before the
long mirror. How graceful are her movements ! She
is slowly and softly executing a courtly curtsy, when a
distant sound of a footstep, an approaching footstep,
causes her to suspend her childish evolutions. She
perceives the figure of a man at the far end of the long
room ; another instant, and this man is beside her. In
confusion, in annoyance at being thus surprised, while
blushes suffuse her cheeks, the girl exclaims 
How came you here ? This is too bad."
tt Did you not expect me ? " asks Charles Daubigny.
Expect you ! Xo," cries she, still blushing, still
confused. " How could I ever expect you ? "

Did not your father mention to you that I intended."

"Oh, yes!'"' cries she, "but I took no heed of it.

Have you not said before, again and again, I am come



Sir Charles, to use a homely phrase, was quite taken
aback by the girls piquant, vivid, almost sarcastic tone
and manner.

You are offended, Helene," he said, " and I grant
that to you, who know so little of the past, my delay incoming
may have appeared neglectful ; but I cannot
well explain."

- You need not," cries our little Gipsy, bursting into
a wild passion of tears. " Since papa went I have made
Oiseau tell me hundreds of things  milks chases. Oh,
I am not a baby to be deluded any longer."

u My dear, dear child, it grieves me to see you thus

troubled. How could I expect it ; and how strangely
at variance is your fanciful attire with your tears ! I
cannot bear it. Take off this ridiculous dress."

I cannot take it off here before you. I have nothing
under it but one of my old white frocks, which
is too short for a dress now."

"And what can it matter if it is short?" asks Sir
Charles. "Is it possible that you have taken to long
dresses ?"

I should think I have. Did you really expect to
find me just what I was ?"

Yes ; I was in hopes I should have found you
precisely the same."

You would have time and me stand still for your
indolence and convenience."

"Not exactly," answered Sir Charles, smiling and
gazing admiringly on the little vixen, "but really it
seems but yesterday that you stood beside me in utter
carelessness of the short frock. The wind blew it
about, I remember, and you heeded not then. How
has this new light broken in upon you?"

Helene laughed amid her tears. " And so you stayed
away all this time," cries she, and now she wept again,
and thought to come and find me still a little girl with
my frocks up to my knees, showing my ankles without
a care."

I wish that I had found you so. I wish I could
have stayed the march of time. Yes, I have a vivid
memory of our walk at Bruges. I seem to see you even
now, the pretty little feet, the sandals."

"You will never see my ankles and my sandals

again," cries Helene ; " you chose to put off your
visit too long."

"And has some abominable village dressmaker been
employed to convert you into a young lady of propriety
V asks our master, raising his glass to his eye,
for he was somewhat near sighted.

o

No," answers the girl. " This is how it was
managed. Papa was obliged to travel to Bath about
some of your business. I begged to go with him, and
in Bath we found a very fair modiste."

I am thankful," returns Sir Charles, " thankful no
village dressmaker has been employed to disfigure you,
my child. In my mind, however, you are far too
young to dress like a grown-up person."

Too young ! but indeed I am not a child now."

Why, my dear, you are but just turned fifteen."

"Well, now," cries Helene, "it is something that
you remember thai. I knew you remembered my
birthday, because you kindly sent me a present ; but I
wonder you should have taken the trouble to remember
how mam years I had  "

Child," cries Sir Charles, in a voice that was scarcely
steady, " child, your age is too deeply graven on my
soul. Helene, Helene, must I tell you how very
precious you are to me ?"

The girl gazed on her companion, and saw such
truth, such passion, such tenderness, such struggling
emotion in the countenance before her, that a new
agitation was created in herself, and in a voice full of
impassioned feeling she exclaims, " I know that you
loved mamma. I have found it out. It is for her

sake you love me, and I do believe that even now you
cannot bear papa. Tell me, was that why you never
came ?"

Has your father ever spoken to you, Helene ?" asks
Sir Charles, painfully, with effort, " Has he ever
spoken of the past ?"

Never, never," answers Helene ; " but when he
went away and I was left with Oiseau, I asked her
milks closes  a thousand things."

Mrs. Bird has evidently erred. She should have
maintained a more prudent reserve."

Oh, what is the use of being so secret ? Oh, I am
sure, I have an idea at least. There is something
wrong,  there was something wrong, and I  I  "

Helene, Helene, if you would not drive me
hence, abstain. Whatever you imagine, speak it not
to me."

But to be slighted, despised, to have no friends,
no relations who care to notice me. Oh ! I can understand
now why papa must needs go without me," and
sinking down, the girl w r kept some bitter tears.

There are two on earth, Helene," resumes our master
in a voice hoarse with suppressed feeling ; " there are
two on earth who love you intensely  your father and
myself. Will not this make some amends V* As Sir
Charles spoke these words, he could not resist, he bent
over the weeping girl, he put his arms around her, and
impressed on her brow one fond and tender kiss.

"If I were sure that you loved me," murmurs Helene
amid her still falling tears, " if I were sure  Oh, tell
me again that I am precious, that I am dear !"

I tell you that you are my life, my only hope. But,
Helene, you do not love me!'

1 did," murmurs the girl, " I could. But when
you never came, when I thought that you were careless,
when I thought it had been but a mere passing
whim  "

Child," answers Charles Daubigny in deep, in
tender accents, " if you could but read my mind ; if
you could but know how my spirit is ever with you.
But circumstances make it almost impossible I should
indulge my inclination. "Will you believe in me,
Helene ? Will you have faith, whatever may befall ?"

The girl gazed through her tears on the agitated, the
spirited countenance of her protector. Truth, and
love, and interest were so manifestly impressed upon
it she could not doubt. Helene was subdued, " You
must forget my petulance," she murmured, " will
you, and forgive it ? But you so took me by surprise,
and a thousand things I got out of Oiseau had half
bewildered me. I think I have been angry, too, in
my heart with papa for running after his rich old
aunt."

Your father had a great dislike to go ; I urged him
by all means to do so. I believe he would be quite
another man, more himself again, if he could look forward
again to possessing the estate destiny seemed to
have provided. Would you not wish him to be less
gloomy ?"

Yes," answers Helene with a sigh. " But I do not
believe any earthly thing can make him happier now.
His heart is broken ; he says so."

"Oh God, yes !" suddenly broke in impassioned but
subdued accents from our master ; " I fear, indeed, like
myself, he is beyond the possibility of happiness'

All your land," murmurs the young girl, " all
your fortune, the power you have of doing just what
you please, does none of this make you happy?"

Ah no ! my love. But mine is a peculiar case ;
there is a sense of utter loneliness, an entire absence
of sympathy that may well depress me. I have no
one, no Helene, ever present to love me."

And could you be happier if you had me always ?"
asks the girl in all the simplicity of unextinguished,
childhood, gazing upwards intently on her patron's
agitated countenance as she speaks.

Alas ! my love, God has provided my destiny ; I
must endeavour to be satisfied, I must not murmur."

After this little outbreak of nature, this impassioned
scene, nothing could be more tranquil than the daily
intercourse betwixt St. Louis and his prote'ge'c. The
girl no longer doubted his love ; she seemed reposing
on the sweet assurance, the sweet knowledge she had
gained.

Charles Daubigny had met Helene en masquerade,
but the disguise thrown off', how satisfied, how more
than satisfied he was with her rich glowing beauty !

Yet, yet there was so much in that beauty that told
of intense and various feeling, there was such a wild
caprice amid the grace of her movements, he could
almost feel an additional weight on his spirit as she
talked to him, or as silently he gazed upon her.

What a future had destiny provided for one so full
of warmth, of animation ! Were all the sweet energies
of her young life to wane away, to be wasted in the
solitude of Avonmore ? Then sometimes, as he sadly
mused, another and quite an opposite idea would arise
to inflict a deeper thrill of pain.

Was it not possible that Graham's position might
even yet be wholly changed ? The widowed aunt with
whom he now sojourned had been left sole mistress of

VOL. I. G

her husband's fortune, with power to bestow it on
whomsoever she would.

In case she did select Graham as her heir, was it
likely he would reside continuously in the seclusion of
Avonmore ? Oh, it was all very well for the ruined
man to say that the world was no place for him, that
he had done with it. Restored to affluence, would he
not again be one of it ? Would not Helene, with her
beauty, her animation, her graceful manner, be just the
person fitted to enter into its delights, and would she
not become wholly estranged from himself ?

Yet despite these sad forebodings that would from
time to time intrude, Charles Daubigny experienced a
degree of enjoyment of which he had believed himself
incapable. To be able to minister to the young girl's
gratification, to feel that his every effort was appreciated,
what an inducement to exertion !

Sir Charles presently discovered that Helene was as
much a stranger as himself to the various scenes of
interest within easy reach of Avonmore. Graham, so
completely crushed, so broken down, had no care now
for any ruin but his own. The shattered castle, the
slowly decaying abbey, had no charm for him. The
mighty cliff, the towering mountain, rose in the distance
; he saw them, yet he saw them not. But nothing-spoke
so forcibly to his former rival, nothing told of
the change that had come over the man so much as
the one simple fact that Helene let fall. Never once
since her arrival had she been on the river, on that
fair queen of rivers, that river that stole so sweetly
through the home domain.

Why, your father lived half his time in a boat,"
murmured the baronet, " and I see it is all in good
order. How could he resist?"

Oh !" cried the girl, and her eyes filled with tears,
u he tells me that he cannot'

And have you a taste, Helene, for the water I
Would you really like to glide along T

Can you row ? " demanded she.

Ah ! like your father once  once, Helene."

Oh 1 but you are not broken-hearted' cried she,
leaning against her protector, and gazing into his pale
face. He sighed, but when playfully the girl knelt
before him, when she just touched his pale, thin, bloodless
hand with her rosy lips, when imploringly she
murmured, " Will you try some day when you feel
pretty well, will you ?" a brighter expression lit up
his sad countenance ; it was like a gleam of sunshine
playing over a wintry landscape. He placed his other
hand on her head, he gazed fondly down upon her, but
he did not give the kiss inclination prompted. No, he
was cool, rational, circumspect now. One kiss he had
bestowed upon the girl, but only one, and that when they
first met again, when he had found Helene en masquerade,
but yet grieved to very bitterness. " Promise
me, my saint, will you?" pleaded Helene, still kneeling.

My love," he answered, " I fear I should be all
abroad. It is so many years since I have handled an
oar, you would only smile at my poor efforts."

u Then will you only do nothing ; take a man to row,
and you yourself sit idly by me. This will be better
still."

Well, I must see about it. The scenery is indeed
lovely on either bank of the river."

Oh," cried the girl, planting now a real kiss on the
hand of her saint, " oh, it will indeed, indeed be kind."

In like manner, accidentally, our poor baronet discovered
that Helen e had the most intense desire to see
for herself, to examine, to saunter about a real ruin.

He had travelled down in his own carriage with post-horses,
but he had sent forward to Avonmore a pair of
good strong carriage-horses. Hence they were enabled,
when Helene's taste had been ascertained, to make
excursions to reach the various scenes of interest in the
neighbourhood with but little difficulty and fatigue.

It may seem improbable, yet it was strictly true,
that though Helene had travelled much, though she
had been a resident in France and in Flanders, she
had never had an opportunity of sauntering through or
about a ruin.

Since she had been of an age to comprehend and feel
an interest in such things, her father had had too great
a weight of sorrow and anxiety upon him to seek any
amusement.

We can scarcely paint then the interest that lit up
her yet childlike countenance as she passed through
the entrance-gate of Raglan, when the interior of this
exquisite and mighty ruin was first manifested to
her view. She stood in the roofless, grass-grown
banqueting room, gazing in silent delight, in profound
admiration.

How charmed was her sensitive companion to find
in the playful girl so much of genuine feeling ! And

when she had wandered from one roofless room to
another, when she had climbed the turret stairs till she
was weary, how charmed he was to be able to satisfy
her curiosity as to the time and the cause of the castle's
destruction !

Charles Daubigny was well up in the history of our
Civil War, in the history of the unfortunate Stuart.
He had studied the subject ; he had searched, he had
read, and now he could pour into Helene's young and
ardent mind a new knowledge ; he could awaken in her
mind a thirst for more.

Ah, we see the twain even now as they sat together
that summer day on the walls of Raglan's lofty tower ;
we see them on the soft, shaven bowling-green below ;
we see them as they partook of their gipsy-like luncheon
on the verdant turf. That summer day for
Helene was almost without a shadow.

We must now carry our reader from the borders of
South Wales, where stretches the vast domain of Avon-more,
to that fashionable west-end street wherein Sir
Charles possesses a large residence and his sister-in-law
rents a very moderate-sized one.

We must enter Mrs. Cyril Daubigny's narrow hall
and ascend her staircase, we must cross the landing
and traverse the drawing-room, to find ourselves in her
boudoir.

The fair one did not admit every one to this little
room. It was here she reposed, here she planned, here
she wrote ; nevertheless, though a strictly private apartment,
it was furnished with extreme elegance ; for

Mrs. Cyril loved fine things, and fine things she would
have, and Sir Charles had to pay for her luxurious and
refined surroundings. The wall of the boudoir was
white and gold ; its shutters, its skirting, its ceiling
were decorated to match. The chairs were various; each
one a gem. The couch was covered with flowered satin,
and the window-curtains of the same costly material.
On the floor lay a square carpet of velvet pile, very
beautiful in design. Then there was a stand for flowers,
bearing now a freight of lovely roses ; and gilded
brackets here and there against the wall, freighted
with specimens of rare old China, added to the small
room's ornamentation.

Augusta (for such was the first Christian name of Mrs.
Cyril) at the moment we enter is the sole occupant of
this her nook of privacy. Still handsome, she contrives
to look handsomer by the application, the aid of every
available artifice. Ah ! we will not scrutinise too closely ;
we will only say that for the pctsse'e beauty's age her
cheek looks too brilliant, too roseate, the rest of her face
too fair. Augusta in her best days had been remarkable
for an air of distinction, her figure for its symmetrical
proportions. The air of distinction remains, and the
figure is even now what is termed a fine figure. In
fact, Mrs. Cyril Daubigny is altogether better-looking at
a little past fifty than most women one sees are at a
little past thirty. Augusta is en deshabille, yet even in
the simplest style of dress she could look well ; and now
at this moment, in her white muslin morning-gown
trimmed with pale pink ribbon, a little cap on her
head with ribbon to match, she does look the personification

of her own unsullied pedigree. She had been
inquiring for her son ; impatiently she awaits his
appearance. He had been pronounced by the butler to
be out when she particularly wanted him to be in, and
anger and impatience flush her cheek above and below
and beyond the bright patch of rouge she wore when
even en tUsltabUh. During this irksome period of
waiting, Mrs. Cyril had attempted to answer a note,
but she had not been able to proceed. There, on her
escritoire, lay the sheet of note-paper, but two lines
only were traced upon it.

She had risen from her seat unable to bend her mind
to mere complimentary phrase ; her mind was too full of
tli at which concerned her more. And now she paces
the small apartment in almost utter unconsciousness
that she is doing so.

Presently she hears voices down-stairs,  footsteps in
the hall. She feels certain that her son is at home.
Forthwith she rings her bell, and orders the page
who answers it to send Mr. Tresham immediately.

In ten minutes the young fellow, with a careless air,
presents himself.

You are always out of the way," exclaims Augusta,
when I want you."

How is it possible, mother, for me to know when
you do want me ? If you had only given out now
at the breakfast-table, just as a parson does in his
pulpit, reverently, I would have tried to remember
your text."

This is no time for nonsense, Tresham," pursues
Augusta. " I am very uneasy about your uncle."

You always are, mother, but he never dies ; worse
luck for all of us."

Hush, child, you should have a care ; some one
may be in the drawing-room. There" (after looking into
the adjoining room), " there, we are safe now. I tell you
I am uneasy, but not about his health."

What's up then, mother ?"

The unaccountable crazy life he is leading."

Is he gone stark mad ? We might shut him up."

You seem quite a fool, Tresham. I hate your ill-timed
nonsense."

Am I to be grave ? Well now, see, I '11 give you just
ten minutes " (looking at his watch) ; " I 'm booked."

Sit down," cries Augusta peremptorily. " Are you
so lost to your own interest ?"

Lost to my own interest ? Oh, by Jove, no !"

Well, then, be serious. Listen ; sharpen your wits ;
see if you can help me."

Oh !"

You know he 's at Avonmore professing to be alone.
He is not alone ; the steward's daughter is there. He
has taken a prodigious fancy to this girl. They drive
out together ; actually, positively he goes boating with
her."

On hearing this, Tresham opens his fine eyes a little
wider than usual, and gives out a little laugh of
mockery or amusement. " Why," cries he, " the old
fellow 's come to life again ; come to his senses."

Come to his dotage, I should say. He must be
looked after, and the question is, How ? He would not
have the girls when I proposed it. 'Tis clear enough

now why. I really dare not make my appearance uninvited.
There is so much I must ask him to do
presently, that I dare not run the risk of annoying
him. Tell me, can you hit on any scheme ? Imagine
the poor dupe shut up there with an artful and a
beautiful girl."

A beautiful gal, mother ? "Who says she \s a beautiful
gal ?" 

You may have heard me mention the vicar's wife
at Avonmore ; I knew her before her marriage.
Occasionally we correspond. From her I learned that
the girl is singularly beautiful. But for your uncle's
mode of life, that I managed to get out of Eliza. Loath
enough she was to tell, too, cautioned, no doubt, by that
sly old Mrs. Bird."

And so she's handsome, mother ; and you want me
to go and look after her, eh ? Well, give me the needful,
the cash, and I '11 be off to do your bidding."

Tresham, you are insufferable. Can't you be
serious?"

I am, positively."

You are not. I thought that you would have some
feeling for me ; some sense of your own interest. I
shall not be in the least surprised if, in the end, this
girl becomes a stumbling-block in our way. I shall
not be in the least surprised if she carries off a part of
his money, he is so strange, so unnatural."

Well, mother," cries Tresham in a tone of badinage,
I begin to see what you want. You want this little
gal drowned, or burked, or burned. Well, I 'm afraid I
can't oblige you."

106 Our Little Gipsy.

"I want her watched," exclaims Augusta vehemently;
I want nothing more. I want him to be made conscious
that we know what he is about. And, as far as
I can see, you are the only person who might venture."

Sto, mother ; I really can't undertake to make a
raid upon him. Latterly he 's not been so easy with me.
But, however, it just strikes me  "

What strikes you ?" asks Mrs. Cyril eagerly.

Why, this. Harry Mostyn has been talking of a
fishing-place  a cottage on the Wye. He's seen it
advertised. He 's been asking me if I know the place.
It's a cottage on the banks of the Wye, about two
miles short of Avonmore."

Well," cries Augusta, her eyes all excitement.

Well," rejoined he, "if he took it I could run down
there, and there 'd be my excuse."

The very thing," continues Augusta. " Yes, if you
could share this place with Captain Mostyn for the
next month or two."

Where 's the tin, mammy ? I haven't a crown -
piece to call my own. It 's all very fine to bid me goto
a sellar and make proposals ; but what a d  d
fool I should look when the day of reckoning came !
Come," holding out a hand, "it 's a bargain. You furnish
me with the wherewithal, and I '11 go and see after the
litle gal."

Not a sixpence will I give you," cries the wide-awake
widow, " till it is needed. You would put the
money to some other purpose, utterly forgetful."

"Oh, oh! hear, hear!" exclaims young Daubigny.
Then I 'm off, my bargain may be  "

" May be you are a born fool. Was ever woman so
tormented by idiots ? "

There now, mammy, smooth your feathers. I '11 do
the business for you. No hanging nor drowning ; tire
shall be the element. I '11 carry a hundred Cupids in
my eyes, and set the little innocent in a blaze. Mother,
if I burn her soul into shreds, if I consume her heart
to ashes, tell me what shall be my reward ? "

Foolish boy," cries Augusta, " take care you do not
get burnt yourself. However, she's too low a creature,
too utterly beneath you for anything serious. I repeat,
I only want her watched."

'Tis the summer sunset hour, and through Avonmore's
dark cedar-trees streams the sun's last lingering glory.
A stillness and a savour of sweet rest spread soft
around ; a silence, stillness broken only by such distant
sounds as scarce disturb the dreamy soul, nay, rather,
tend to hush the senses into softer, more complete repose.

And stretching like a Fairy's sad funeral train 
stretching athwart the rosy-tinted sky,  singly, slowly
float the rooks this summer eve towards Avonmore.
High aloft they soar, so high that the harsh notes they
utter fall on the listener's ear below subdued and
almost plaintive. Never fails the sable flock at sunset
hour to soar towards the mighty trees that shelter
Avonmore. But seldom, perhaps, so slowly, seldom,
perhaps, so singly, had they soared towards their 
as on this soft June eve.

The day had been a day of summer's sweetness, such
as we snatch so few of now. At noon the heat had been
so great the heavy roses drooped, the tall white lilies
bowed their virgin heads. And the young girl, like the
flowers she loved, had felt the mid day heat like them ;
she drinks in now the soft and dewy evening air.
Helene is sitting in a rustic chair upon the lawn ; St.

Louis stands beside her. Subdued she is, nay, almost
sad, and this without apparent reason. She gazes upwards
on the long dark line formed by the home-bound
rooks ; she watches till they slowly settle in their
mighty trees, and thus disappear from view. Scarce,
however, had they settled down, when suddenly one
solitary bird emerges from the boughs and floats right
o'er the spot where Helene sits, uttering as it hovers
there its mournful, its ill-omened note.

Oiseau," cried the girl to her companion, " Oiseau
would say this bodes no good."

'Tis, I suspect, a stray crow," replied Sir Charles,
that by some accident joined the flock, but is not permitted
by the rightful tenants to have a lodging for the
night at Avonmore."

"Ah!" cried the girl, " un corbeau, taut pis. Yes,
Oiseau said a crow. She has taught me what they say.
One of sorrow, two of mirth." Then suddenly remembering
that the rest of the old saying was scarcely to be
repeated to a man, she hurriedly, or rather abruptly
paused.

Sir Charles was little given to laughter, but it was
almost with a laugh that he asked why she did not go on.

Instead of making any reply, Helene, starting up, said,
Do you see that ?"

"What?" asked he.

A man," replied the girl, " coming through the
shrubbery. Yes, he is now at the end of the lawn."

Sir Charles turned his eyes in the direction indicated.
He saw the figure move rapidly forward, and in another
minute recognised the intruder as his nephew.

I am taking you strangely by surprise," broke from
the young man as he approached, " but I thought it
better to come to Avonmore at once, lest you should
hear such an individual was hanging about the country
from other lips than my own."

I must say," replied the baronet, with great coldness
in his manner, " that your sudden and unlooked-for visit
astonishes me. AVill you give me some explanation?"

Well, uncle, you will find it is a very simple affair.
I 'm sorry to say nothing romantic or exciting. A
friend of mine saw advertised a fishing-box to let on
your river. He took it all in the mist, and insisted
on carrying me along with him for this his first
inspection."

Then you are staying with this friend. Pray, may
I ask the name of the place he has taken, and how far
it is from here ?"

It is called Vega, and is a good two miles short of
Avonmore."

And may I further inquire how you came ? Surely
you who so detest country strolls did not walk."

Gad, no, uncle ; I came gliding along soft as any
salmon-trout. Mossy lent me, or rather sent me, in a
boat belonging to the cottage. And, by the way, this is
what I must beg  just to put up for the night here.
I shan't like to leave in a minute ; and I don't want to
keep the fellow who brought me waiting, and as I left
Mostyn just going in to dinner  "

Then the long and the short of the matter is,
Tresham, that you want first a dinner, then a bed,"
murmured Charles Daubigny.

Tresham nodded his head.

We are not expecting stray visitors," continued Sir
Charles somewhat stiffly, " and I must go in at once and
inform Mrs. Bird ; the sheets will have to be aired, and
for aught I know the bed may be damp."

Gad, a mercy, uncle ; why, if the sheets were wringing
wet I think I 'd welcome 'em. I 've been burning,
scorching all day. But for the dinner, if you would be
so thoughtful, for I 'm somewhat in need, and tell her
to give me an enormous pitcher of beer, or a huge jug of
claret. My throat, uncle, is positively on fire."

Ah, yes, no doubt," cried Sir Charles.

You have dined, I suppose," continued the thirsty
soul.

We have dined, but Mrs. Bird can find something 
something to serve up. She can give you a dinner. I '11
just go and speak to Mrs. Bird," and Sir Charles departed,
leaving his nephew and Helene standing on
the lawn together.

"What a strange old fish this uncle of mine is !"
cried the nephew, as soon as his uncle was out of hearing.
" What a strange old character he is, he has never
introduced us ; doesn't mean to, I suspect, or he has
forgotten. Allow me, then, continued the new-comer,
allow me to do the tender office for myself. You see
before you Tresham Daubigny, the only son of Cyril
and Augusta, the hope of the family, seeing my uncle
won't marry, the heir-expectant, that is, the sellar
who '11 have all the estates when he 's safe in heaven.
Moreover, I must add for your benefit, that the world 
the prudish, the divine, the moral world  says that the

individual before you is a very worthless sellar, who
only goes about a-sowing his wild oats. The moral
world 's not so wrong neither, and I mean to pull up.
Not to-day, however ; I 've got one measure more to
scatter, and precious care I '11 take not to waste a grain.
Come, now, fair nymph of the woods, you must know
this country better than I. Where is a goodly soil ?
Will you give me a lesson in agriculture ? Will you
go a-sowing with me? I haven't any time to lose;
mother bothers horribly, and tells me I am reckless,
and recommends, as a preventative of sin, that
I commit matrimony with some witch of her finding.
This old fish here's grown so impatient, he's
ready to shake his fist in my face, only he aren't ;
he hasn't the pluck to do it. Come, now, having
given you such a notable example of candour, won't
you repay me with a like return ? If you won't
be so generous as I, at least let fall to a poor
beggar some small coin. Come, I say, tell me, are
you positively our steward's daughter ? At least let
me hear your Christian name ; is it Annie, Ada,
Florence, or Minnie?"

Helene, offended by the disrespectful manner in
which the stranger spoke, offended still more by the
bold free glances he bestowed upon her, did not deign
to reply.

You are silent," continued Tresham, " then 1 shall
perforce have to address you as the fair mystery, or
the angelic anonyma. How could I expect to find
such a divinity on the lawn of Avonmore, and with
that old wrinkled individual my uncle, too ?"

At this instant Helene darted away. She saw Sir
Charles on the portico steps and joined him. As
Tresham watched from where he lingered, he saw the
meeting of his uncle with the girl. He saw how comfortably
familiar they were, that Helene was quite at her
ease with the wrinkled anchorite. He was quite enraged,
enraged that his uncle had had the audacity to enjoy
himself ; enraged to find that the girl was so lovely, so
much a lady, so peculiarly elegant in her movements.

In a few moments Helene went in-doors, and Sir
Charles came alone to join his nephew. As the one
approached the other exclaimed, " I have been asking
your fair companion in vain for a name whereby to
address her ; tell me, is she veritably the daughter of
your steward?"

She is."

"And, pray, is she going to get her living as a
disease, a columbine V

1 should hope not," answered Sir Charles.

Then why, in God's name, is she dressed up in that
way, white muslin, blue ribbons, a diamond cross tied
round her neck. Surely you would do well to give
either the girl or her father a severe lecture. As sure
as my name 's Tresham, she '11 come to grief."

I have no doubt, Tresham, that were you unrestrained
you would do your best to verify your
prediction," exclaimed Sir Charles ; " but have a care.
You perhaps take my steward for a low-born fellow ;
he is a gentleman, though unfortunately in bad circumstances."


Oh, I quite understand," pursued the nephew in

vol. 1. H

a tone of irony. " Mother says he 's some scamp yon
have picked up abroad ; and, I may add, that, of course,
to work on your pity, to induce you to trust him,
he 's humbugged you into the belief that he is a born
gentleman. Now, uncle Charles, I take it I'm a deal
wider awake than yourself ; I 'm much more of a sinner,
and I 'm much less likely to be done. From the look
of the gal, I should say her father might be an actor,
and that she had been trained from her infancy to take
part in the performance. I 've looked at her well ;
you don't see one gal in a thousand walk as she does."

I see it is useless to attempt to conquer your
conviction."

Quite so, uncle."

Very well, the girl, according to your theory, is noway
your equal. Then please to observe you will not
in my house offer her those attentions which you
would to a girl in your own position in life. Until
her father's return she is under my supervision ; I shall
watch over her henceforth with a more jealous care."

Whether the conversation would have terminated at
this point we know not, but a footman informing
Tresham that his cold dinner was ready, and Tresham's
insatiate thirst, put an end to it for the present. The
Uas6 boy, for indeed he was scarce more than a boy,
was given to swallowing quantities of liquid. The
burning sun of the summer day had rendered him
more than usually in need of some cooling draught.

When Sir Charles lay restless and sleepless in his bed
that night, how bitter were his thoughts ! How did
his over-taxed patience, how did his over burdened
spirit long to break through its long hard bondage !
Yes, he would have liked next morning to have forbidden
Tresham ever to set foot on Avonmore again ;
he would have liked to have defied the whole tribe to
whom he was so much a slave. But had he performed
the feat that smothered indignation prompted, he knew
it would be like bringing on himself the fiery action of
a volcano. He knew his sister-in-law so well ; he
knew her imperious temper, the malignity of her disposition
; he could foresee all that inevitably must
follow. Helene and Graham would be driven from
Avonmore, and he himself left with only his newly
asserted dignity, and a void, an anguish more cruel than
before. He would repent when repentance would be
useless. The action of the volcano would but have
strewn his dreary path with fresh showers of ashes.
There would indeed be no green spot. Then dismissing,
as well as he could, or rather repressing as well as he
could, his indignation, his irritation, it occurred to him

would it be better to reveal to Tresham who the girl's
father really was ; but here again he presently felt the
impulse checked. Graham had become so forgotten in
the gay world to which he once belonged, he was so
desirous to avoid its notice. He was a man so proud,
so apt to take offence, with whom one dared not lightly
take a liberty. Tresham, master of the story, would
carry it everywhere. George Eochefort Leslie Graham
disinterred ! his uncle's farm bailiff ! the former rivals
cooing like two turtles !

Poor Sir Charles, he felt the blood rise to his own
temples as he contemplated the pain he might inflict.
He was, he had ever been, a greater slave to his own
shrinking sensitiveness than even to Augusta.

Hours of thought could compass nothing, the whole
night's wakefulness could find no remedy; and at length,
with a sigh more like a groan, with a feeling of extreme
bodily weakness, the result of long continued conflicting
feeling, Sir Charles saw that he must endeavour to
endure to the end. He sank into a short and troubled
sleep at last, from which a servant roused him at
seven. He felt now that he could have slept for
hours, but reality rushed upon him ; not only was
Helene in the house, but Tresham also  Tresham, that
long-standing trouble. And so our poor baronet
dressed with some trepidation and with unwonted
haste. When he reached the breakfast-room he was
sensibly relieved ; neither the girl nor his nephew had
yet appeared. Still more relieved was he when during
breakfast Tresham asked if he could have any conveyance
to carry him back to the cottage.

There is a cart, and I have my carriage ; you may
have which you choose," replied Sir Charles.

"It is not a pig-cart nor a dung cart ?" Tresham
inquired with a sneer.

It is the cart Mr. Graham my steward uses."

Then, of course" retorted the boy maliciously,
it will be first-rate." Turning to the footman who
waited, a man belonging to the baronet's London
establishment, Tresham exclaimed, " Tell them to bring-round
the cart in twenty minutes."

The man bowed obsequiously, for every servant belonging
to Sir Charles knew that the imperious Augusta
expected that her son should be treated as the future
head of the family.

Tresham's mood seemed wholly to have changed
with his last night's repose. Watching the young-fellow
closely during breakfast, Sir Charles could
not detect that he noticed Helene at all. On
leaving he did not so much as offer to shake
hands with her ; he made a bow with a supercilious
air.

I do not like your nephew at all," said the girl,
almost as soon as he had really gone. " II n'y a point
de respecte ni pour vous ni pour moi. Why do you
not marry and at once crush out his insolence ? What
do you think he said to me ? That when you are
en ciel he will reign here."

And so he will, my Helene, undoubtedly."

And you do not feel resentful of his want of
feeling in speaking to me so coolly of your death ?"

My love, I am so accustomed to the idea, I am so

satisfied it is ever before the minds of my relations,
I have so little care for life."

You shall not say this ; you shall not be so forlorn,
so low-spirited," cried the girl, kneeling before
her loving patron. " Surely you might find some
lady who would love you. Is it never in your mind
to marry ?"

Never, Helene, never ; I have no idea of marriage,
the thought is odious to me. And you, Helene, do
you desire, do you recommend it ? Child, how shortsighted
you are ! The wife you would <nve me would
cavil the first thing at the one affection I have. Helene,
she would try to break off my intercourse with you."

IEele.ie coloured. "Yes," cried the girl, "like my
father's rich old aunt."

No, my love, no, you wholly mistake me ; I mean
that such an absorbing interest would be felt to be
incompatible. No wife could comprehend an affection
the source of which would be a mystery."

I know, I know," cried the girl : " it is for poor
mamma's sake you love me. Oiseau says that I am so
like her."

Helene, speak not to me of your mother. There is
pain to me, there is anguish in every allusion."

Then," said the girl, touching his hand with her
lips, " I cause you suffering."

No, child ; I hope, I trust you will never cause meany
suffering. Promise me, dearest Helene, to ask
incessantly for God's help. Ask daily, hourly for the
guidance of His Holy Spirit. Oh, child, if you did but
know the anxiety I feel !"

Indeed' murmured Helene, " I have striven,  I
will strive to do right."

And now," pursued Sir Charles, " Heaven places a
temptation in your way. Helene, I grieve to say it,
but I must. My nephew has no rectitude ; he will
probably do his best to attract and to mislead you."

He takes a strange way of beginning. I am not
likely to rind fascination in an unfeeling conceited
coxcomb."

Child, Tresham is seldom two days of the same
mood. To-morrow you might find him quite another
person. Perhaps he has already discovered that his
audacity does not awe or alarm you. Perhaps he may
assume another, a very different tone. For God's Fake
have a care."

"You shall take care of me," murmured Helene;
"you always seem to me to be like my appointed
guardian angel."

"Ah, my dear child, I could almost wish indeed
that I was a spirit hovering ever about you, unseen,
yet powerful to aid."

Nay," cried the girl, " it is your very presence that
preserves me from evil. When I look into your dear,
great, mournful eyes, when I hear your anxious-sounding
voice, I want no more."

Sir Charles bent down and pressed one loving yet
most holy kiss upon the young girl's shadowed brow.
He felt too much depressed for further words. He
left the room and wandered forth alone.

In the loneliest part of the park for the next hour
he might have been seen sauntering to and fro. Many

a man bowed down by poverty and misfortune might
have a heart less sad. Of what avail was money ?
He felt that he was wanting in gratitude to God. He
tried to lift his soul from the dust. But this hour
there was a weight upon his heart too heavy.

After Tresham's first invasion of Avonmore, he continued
almost daily at some hour to appear before
Helene and Sir Charles. He seemed determined to
make his uncle feel that, being one of the family, there
was no occasion to use ceremony with him. But so
well, apparently, had he profited by the caution that
had been given in regard to Helene, that with her he
was ceremonious to the last decree. He treated the
girl with a sort of frozen courtesy  a frozen courtesy
never laid aside. The master of the mansion saw no
attempt at intimacy, no approach to familiarity.

Helene, however, could presently detect that if Sir
Charles happened to have his back turned  if he happened
to be reading or writing  then Tresham took the
liberty of using his eyes. He would gaze upon her in
these brief intervals with a gaze how unlike the bold
and audacious glances he had bestowed upon her at
their first meeting !

As day after day passed on, the girl became, as it
were, burdened by a consciousness that she had created
an interest. It was but too evident that the wild
young fellow sought to impress her with such a belief.

Sometimes Tresham would reach down a book from
the library shelves, and pretend to be absorbed in its
contents. The book, however, was, in fact, used but asa

mere mask or screen, from behind which, even when
his uncle was by, he could, unperceived, indulge in
these stolen glances.

Tresham had very fine eyes. They could speak a
language more spirituel, more subtle, more refined, than
any words he could have used. They could hint of
that that his lips dared not utter ; they could tell of a
vivid and a rowin" interest, ere lorn? of a real and
haunting passion. At first, before she herself had become
in any way touched by these silent flatteries,
Helene thought she would remark on the simulation
practised by young Daubigny. She had a great mind
to mention to St. Louis what use the nephew made
of his uncle's minutes of absence or occupation. But
if she had said, " Really I am obliged sometimes to go
away ; really there is something embarrassing in your
nephew's watching me so," might not Sir Charles
have imagined that vanity induced the supposition,
especially as Tresham never even deigned to hold out
a hand to her on his arrival or departure, but only and
always greeted her, coming and going with such a civil
bow as would be due to the bailiff's daughter ?

AVhat a strange combination was thrown together
in this hapless lad ! His character, his person, his
pursuits, his actions, seemed all haphazard. His nature
was in every sense conflicting, his conduct irreconcilable,
inconsistent. His figure was indeed w ell proportioned,
but how slight ! His face was almost girl-like
yet. But nature, as if to mock at this effeminacy of
appearance, had given to Tresham the strength, the
courage, the endurance of a giant. He could sit up

all night, yet be never the worse on the morrow. His
digestion was never known to fail. With impunity he
could ride a horse another man dare not mount. He
had gained renown as a cricketer. Secretly he patronised
the ring, and had learned to use his fists as cleverly
as many a well-trained pugilist. Nature, withal, in
sport had shed over Tresham such an air of delicacy ;
nature had set upon him such a stamp of aristocracy.
"Who could mistake the likeness ? He was, in truth,
Augusta's very son. The mother's air of distinction
clave to him even in his wildest hours, his maddest
pranks. But Augusta was ever the same Augusta.
She never descended from her pedestal, while Tresham
could fling himself down from his any day, and find
excitement in the change.

Sir Charles had once really loved Tresham,  had
felt a deep interest in him. But he had known so
much, he had found so much simulation in the boy,
he had had such experience of his falsehood and his
worthlessness since, that he had ceased to care  he
hoped he had ceased his useless anxiety. He had the
greatest dread of his duplicity, and Helene felt certain
the anxious uncle had spoken to Mrs. Bird, begging her
to keep a watchful eye at the present time over his
precious heir expectant. Helene could plainly see
that Oiseau was ever on the alert, that she was very
inquisitive, that she did pry into the movements of the
young master.

It was quite evident, too, to the girl that Tresham
had no friend in Mrs. Bird. She was quite sure she
would never screen his sins.

One day she said to Heleue, when they happened
to be at a window commanding a view of the drive
up to the house, pointing, as she spoke, to the retreating
figure of Tresham, " Oh ! Miss Helene, what a grievous
pity it is that with such prospects before him our
young master here can't be different. He's always
a-doing wrong, and who 'd ever think it that looks on
him ! He was the delicate child. Lord, Miss Helene,
no one ever thought he 'd be reared. And what 's he
been saved for ? Pity it was he didn't go then, for
what he does, and what he did when he were a mere
boy in age, God only knows. Drink ! he can drink
like a fish. Damn and curse too. Fight ! ay, with
them little white hands. Why, he 'd knock any one
down as affronted him as soon as look at 'em ; and as
for money, what can't Sir Charles had to pay for him !
Dice and cards, betting, racing. Oh, what a grief he 's
been to my poor master ! "

He seems very quiet now, at any rate," remarked
the girl.

Then, depend upon it, he 's got some mischief in
his head ; something he 's a-brewing."

These charges made by the nurse against young
Daubigny were in a measure supported by scraps of
conversation Helene seemed doomed to overhear.

One morning Sir Charles said to him, " I thought,
Tresham, you 'd done with racing. Did you not give
me your word, when I set you free from your difficulty
last year, that you would abjure the race-course ?"

Well, sir, and have I not ? I can swear that from
that day to this I haven't witnessed a race."

"What means this?" asked Sir Charles, placing a
finger on a particular part of the newspaper. " Well,
do you find the place ?"

No ; I see nothing."

Then I will read it to you," exclaimed Sir Charles.
"Amongst the list of horses entered to run at Newmarket
races I read Dew Drop, the owner, Tresham Daubigny,
Esq. Is not this a recommencement ? or, no, it is more
than possible, in an underhand manner, you may have
never discontinued."

You are too hard upon me, uncle Charles. Can I
help such a thing getting into the papers ? It is some
mistake the fools have made."

I hope it may be as you represent," retorted the
uncle ; " but lest it should not, I now repeat my warning.
Nothing shall ever induce me a second time to
bring out money for such a purpose."

You need not persecute me with your miserly
threats," exclaimed Tresham, the colour mounting to
his temples, and the tone of his voice giving evidence
of suppressed anger, " I as little desire to touch your
money as you to pull it out;" and the young fellow
quitted the room to pace up and down the carriage -
sweep outside the house, striving, perhaps, to regain
his wonted coolness and self-command.

We have now arrived at a certain day in the third
week of Tresham Daubigny's stay at the fishing-box.
On this day was to commence the first break in the
civil or formal intercourse that had been established
betwixt Helene and himself. Sir Charles hitherto had

managed to keep so jealous a watch over the young
people, that often as they had been thrown together
they had scarcely ever been left alone together for
more than a few minutes at a time.

But on this particular morning, whether St. Louis
would or no, he was compelled, in his capacity of
magistrate, to confer with a farmer of the neighbourhood,
who requested to speak to him, his landlord, on
urgent business.

Tresham then entering the library, had the good
fortune to find Helene alone. He knew that Sir
Charles could not escape from the tenant-farmer for at
least the next half-hour, and he resolved to make hay
while the sun shone. On seeing Helene the civil and
customary bow was not performed. Tresham, advancing
towards the girl, held out his hand. She could
not absolutely refuse to give her own, and the little
Gipsy hand received such a long and tender pressure
as it had never known before. vere he relinquished
his grasp, with eyes that pleaded too, he said, " Tell
me, can you, do you forgive the folly and the insolence
I perpetrated at our first meeting ? How can I expect
you to forgive that that I must ever recall with annoyance,
nay, with real pain ?"

Helene, taken entirely by surprise, stood silent
before the youn" fellow, her eves downcast, her cheeks
suffused with blushes.

You are silent," he continued. " You have every
reason to feel resentful. "Will it appease your anger 
will it induce you to pardon when I tell you that
destiny has given you compensation ? Yes, wherever I

may be, whatever may befall, your sweet young voice
will greet me. Your loveliness will haunt  "

Tresham had got so far. Whatever eccentric words
he would next have uttered we shall never know, for
as he arrived at the word " haunt " there came a smart
tap at the door, and Thomas the footman entering,
addressed the young master thus : 

If you please, sir, shall I show Captain Mostyn inhere
? He 's been a-lookin' for you, sir, and says he
must find you."

"Confound Mostyn !" broke from Tresham. " What
the devil does he want ? "

He wants to speak to you, sir, I believe, about
some gentleman, sir, who 's arrived at the fishing box."

Tell him to come to the window." (It was a
window nearly down to the ground.) " I can talk to
him just as well as if he were inside."

Helene presently heard Captain Mostyn addressing
young Daubigny (the latter leaning out on the windowsill).


A pretty fellow you are, Daubigny ! There 's
Ewes at our place in a devil of funk. He 's actually
travelled sixty miles to find you. Have you really
forgotten the Cheltenham steeple-chase?"

I hoped he had."

It comes off tomorrow. He tells me you promised
to ride his horse."

"Why don't he get some other sellar to ride his
d d horse ? "

"Well, if you'd given him notice; if you had but
said you shouldn't be able, and so on."

Go back and tell him I give him notice now."

I shall do no such thing. You must see Ewes
yourself. He says your name is down as one of the
stewards, and that you volunteered to be very active in
the affair."

Then he wants to drag me to Cheltenham to-night,
eh ? Why can't you ride the brute ?"

Oh, by Jove, no ! I 've too much regard for my own
neck."

And I 'm to care nothing for mine ?"

Well, my dear fellow, hitherto you've shown about
as much regard for your neck as for your soul. I 'm
ready any day to throw my hat up in the air and cry
Hurrah ! ' if you '11 give me notice of amendment. Come,"
continued Mostyn, " are you ready to go ? I can't stand
here all day in the sun waiting your pleasure."

Daubigny now turned to Helene. " Say one kind
word  one word before I go."

The girl, who by this time had recovered her self-possession,
yet answered nothing, save that on her lips
and in her eyes was pictured disbelief.

You will not," he continued, " you will not so much
as say that if I return here you will be glad to see me."

Why should I," now broke from Helene's rosy
lips, and with a curious little shake of the head she
added playfully, " I shall not go a- sowing wild oats
with you if you do come back ; no, nor tame oats
neither. A little bird of the air has warned me to be
wise and wary."

' That bird of wisdom is my uncle Charles. He has,
of course, been hooting of my sins. I know what you

will do," continued Daubigny. " The very instant I am
off, you will fly to your old pet ; you will repeat to him
the little I have said. In his fit of crazy wisdom he
will magnify the mere fact of our tete-astute. He will
see design, craft, subtlety in my speaking to you when
he was inextricably engaged. Tell me, am I to look for
this kind favour, this kind office at your hands ? He
and I are bad enough as it is ; but you may make
matters far worse betwixt us yet."

Take back the idle flattering words that you have
uttered," cried the girl, with something between scorn
and badinage in her voice and manner. " Consider
you have spoken them but to the winds. I promise to
give as little sign as they."

I do not recall one word," answered Daubigny.

I say, old fellow, what are you about ?" cries Mostyn,
leaping, as he speaks, in at the open window. " Oh ! by
Jove " (bowing to Helene), " I beg a thousand pardons.
If I had had the least idea how my friend was engaged,
upon my soul I would not  "

You need not apologise, indeed," murmured Helene,
covered with confusion ; and like a little simpleton as
she was, added, " I assure you I am alone here with
Mr. Daubigny quite by accident."

A very charming accident for my friend," continued
the audacious captain. " I am not at all surprised at his
unwillingness to risk his neck. I presume, Tresham,
we may look for other startling novelties ?"

1 wish you would not make yourself such a confounded
idiot," cried Daubigny. " Here, let me be off
before you have time to fire another of your random

shots," and without even a bow to Helene, he was
gone.

The captain, after another apology, and laughing
over his friend's irascible temperament, also quitted the
room, but not by the way he had so unceremoniously
entered it.

vol. 1.

Young Daubigny was gone, and strange to tell, Helene
felt unsettled, restless. That perfect tranquillity of mind
she had known before he appeared, that unsullied
peace had passed away. She tried to regain her former
placidity, she tried to forget the young fellow's existence
; but no, it could not be. Perhaps if he had never
been coming back it had been different with her, but
there was a future.

The girl managed to conceal the impression Daubigny
had made upon her. She even now and then told
almost an untruth to conceal the fact. She led St.
Louis to believe she was more than satisfied by his
nephew's absence ; and Sir Charles flattered himself no
harm had been done.

Helene, feeling thus conscious that young Daubigny
had by some means affected her, was not prone now
to intrude his name, much less the manner of his departure.
But she could glean from the little his uncle
said, that he must have gone off certainly without giving
any explanation, that Sir Charles had no idea whether
he would return, or if he did, when it would be.

Day passed after day. Helene wondered every morning
whether amongst the uncle's many letters there

would be one from his nephew. But no letter
came from Tresham. At length more than a week
had passed away, and Helene wondered to herself
whether he ever would return, or whether, with that
kind of uncertainty which Sir Charles told her characterised
all his actions, nay, his whole nature, he had
abandoned the idea.

It was a summer eve, as soft, as holy as that whereon
our sinner first appeared before the girl. The sun had
sunk, but the sky was still. How beautiful with
golden glory !  a glory that showed up branch and trunk,
that darkly towered, of each great cedar shadowing
Avonmore.

Helene was making tea in a room that looked out on
the drive up to the house. Suddenly she paused in her
attempt. She held the sugar-tongs, but she forgot to
use them ; she forgot to put the sugar into her patron's
cup. A sound of wheels attracted her ; she did not
speak ; a sort of consciousness that it might be young
Daubigny returned kept her mute. Sir Charles was the
first to speak. " Something coming, I think," he said,
and if any one had been by to observe him, they would
have seen that his delicate and attenuated countenance
became a shade paler. Yes, in his soul he had said as
the girl had said in hers, " Perhaps it is Tresham."

Neither of them had long to be in doubt. The hall-bell
rung, and presently, almost instantly, Daubigny
entered the room where the twain were seated. One
arm was in a sling ; lie looked very ill  very, very pale.
But as Helene gazed, that very paleness seemed to her
to heighten the beauty of the reckless being before her.

Uncle Charles," cried he on entering, " uncle
Charles, I hope you will not mind, but I've had an
accident which has kept me ever so many days at an
inn. I hope, I say, you won't mind my coming here fora
bit. If I go to the cottage, there 's not a soul thereto
see to me."

I am very sorry," replied Sir Charles, trying to look
civil, " but really I should say you had far better have
gone home to your mother."

"My mother, be bothered!" cried the unruly lad;
1 she 's a perfect wasp when anything of this sort happens.
No, I want Mrs. Bird to see to me. The doctor
says I only want care. I shall be all right with wet
bandages in a few days. May I send away the carriage,
uncle Charles ? It 's a hired carriage, and I 've
no man with me to bother you."

Well, it 's altogether unfortunate. You look indeed
in a state of suffering. There 's no medical man to be
depended on here."

Never mind the medical man, but just tell me,
may I stay?" cried Tresham uneasily, impatiently.

"Of course you must stay," replied St. Louis
pathetically.

The wild young fellow then rang the bell, and
ordered Thomas the footman to inquire of the driver
what he had to pay.

Three pounds, sir ; he says it 's a long journey,
sir," reports Thomas after seeing the driver.

Tresham now felt in all his pockets, one after
another, and finished by declaring he was regularly
cleaned out. " Thought I 'd half-a-dozen sovereigns

about me," he exclaimed. " And see, uncle Charles,
that 's all I can find," showing one. " Will you please
pay the rest ?"

St. Louis took out his purse (a dainty little silken
one netted by Helene), and lent or gave his nephew
the other two sovereigns ; and then Tresham, despatching
the money by Thomas, cast himself into a great
leathern chair.

I suppose you will give some account of how all
this happened," presently broke from the uncle.

Miss Graham can testify how unwillingly I went,"
answered Tresham ; then turning his gaze on Helene,
and addressing her, he added, " You heard my friend
Mostyn ; you know how he dragged me away."

Sir Charles absolutely started ; it was the first time
he had heard his nephew thus familiarly or confidentially
address the girl.

Yes, I do know," murmured Helene, " for I was in
the library when you talked to him as he stood outside
the window."

Didn't he bother me to go ?" inquired Tresham,
gazing upon her.

Blushing and confused, as she observed that Sir
Charles also had his eyes fixed upon her, was our
little Gipsy.

"I am not in the least enlightened," continued St.
Louis, looking more intently still upon the girl, and
having something of pain and amazement in his gaze.
Helene, is it possible that you knew on what errand
my nephew was bent, and never told me?"

I thought, of course, sir," replied Helene, " that he,

that Mr. Daubigny, had seen you before he left the
house."

"Oh dear, no!" retorted the uncle with unusual
exasperation in his tone. " Oil dear, no ! Ceremony,
even decency is usually laid aside in my case."

Didn't you hear him now ?" broke from Tresham,
his eyes fixed upon Helene's as he spoke. " Didn't he
say he wouldn't stand any longer outside waiting my
pleasure ? Didn't Mostyn drag me away ?"

He said you must go," murmured the girl.

So, uncle Charles," pursued Tresham, " I couldn't
see you. There was a sellar at the cottage seeking forme,
a sellar who insisted I 'd promised to ride his horse
next day at the Cheltenham steeple-chase ; I 'd forgotten,
that is, I meant to forget if I ever did promise."

"And you did ride this man's horse?" asks Sir
Charles.

Why, yes, uncle; how the devil could get out of it?"

You could very well have said that you had given
your word never to ride in a steeple-chase again."

Well, but how d' ye know I hadn't promised this
sellar before the time you mean ?"

It isn't likely.

Well, sir, they all swore I 'd promised last year, and
so I was in for it. The horse w T as a brute, but, however,
I won the sellar his money. But, you see, I've
enough of it for the next hundred years. You needn't
preach, sir ; I feel so bad now, I wish you 'd tell Mrs.
Bird to get my room ready directly, uncle Charles  the
bed. I must try and sleep ; that beastly inn, the noise
in it was absolutely infernal."

Sir Charles needed no further prompting. Off he
strode, only too glad to have a chance of disposing of
his nephew. He was absent from the room only a few
minutes, but found on his return that those few
minutes had not been passed in silence.

Tresham did not appear next day till after the outdoor
clock at Avonmore had told our Helene it was
noon ; and when he did appear, he either was, or
feigned to be, a suffering invalid.

On account of the difficulty of getting at his bad
arm, and keeping wet bandages on it under a tight
coat sleeve, Mrs. Bird had fished out from the old
chest of drawers a loose-sleeved damask coat, a garment
perhaps a hundred years old. It was a sort of
salmon colour or oriflamrne, seemed scarcely ever to
have been used, and really became the prodigal, and
fitted him very well. Arrayed in this, Tresham came
down to breakfast. He had ordered coffee, and when
the tray appeared, he further ordered Thomas to place
it on a table before the sofa, on which he himself half
reclined.

As the girl watched by stealth the movements of
the invalid while he made his late breakfast, she could
not help feeling almost burdened by a consciousness
that his great dark eyes, with tender meaning in them,
were ever seeking to encounter her own. She could
not help fancying, too, that he was a little acting the
invalid. However, the paleness of his complexion
testified that he was not well. This absence of colour,
as we have before said, rather enhanced his good looks.
The expressive dark eyes, the long dark lashes, the

marked and beautifully-formed eyebrows, the slight
moustache on the upper lip, seemed to be better
brought out, made more conspicuous, now that the
colour had deserted his cheeks.

As Helene continued stealthily making her survey,
she noticed that his every movement, even now that
he suffered, or pretended to suffer, was marked by a
peculiarity, was characterised by an audacious freedom.

Yes, though his uncle, as he must know, suspected
his every word to be an untruth, his every movement
to be a feint, yet he could not be embarrassed, he could
not be abashed, or awkward, he was perfectly easy and
graceful in his manner.

To-day, although continually eyeing the girl by
stealth, he spoke very little to her. Yesterday he had
a motive, a purpose, a design, in speaking to her before
Sir Charles.

Then he wanted her testimony to prove that he had
not voluntarily ridden his last steeple-chase ; that
Captain Mostyn had almost insisted. To-day he
wanted to lull his uncle's suspicions in regard to
Helene. He was acting a wily part ; he wanted, as he
himself would have worded it, " to put the governor
off the scent, or on a wrong scent ;" and it was doubtless
with this view, that in the course of the day,
carelessly, he said, " Uncle Charles, who is that very
pretty gal at the lodge ? She certainly was not here
before I left."

"Which lodge do you speak of?" asked the uncle,
looking up from a letter he was writing.

The lodge close here, at the drive-entrance to the

garden. I was quite struck with her. She came out
and opened the gate yesterday when the sellar with the
fly drove me in."

You are right, Tresham," answered Sir Charles.
The girl was not at the lodge before you went off,
aud I am sorry she is here now."

 Why. if I may ask ? Is she too pretty ?"

I should not quarrel with her pretty face," replied
the uncle, still pen in hand, " but I 'ni afraid, from
what Mrs. Bird tells me, she is anything but an acquisition
in other respects."

Sir Charles went on writing again. He was pressed
for time. He had other letters to write beside the one
in progress.

Tresham, seeing his uncle's head down, seeing his pen
in motion, quick as a monkey wrote on the back of a
letter, and pushed it across the sofa-table to Helene,
"Another bard of the air in the house  the old hen-harrier.
Won't she pick me to pieces ?" Then again
addressing his uncle, who now was folding up his letter,
Don't you give Mrs. Bird an extra 5 a year, uncle
Charles, for looking after the morals of the gals on your
estate ? Doesn't she give you some news of their Sunday
walks with their sweethearts  their young men ?"

"No ; I never encourage gossip. I hate hearing tales
about these sort of people, and I should have heard
nothing of this girl if I had not inquired. Like yourself,
Tresham, I was struck by her pretty, innocent-looking
countenance, and asked, of course, how all of a
sudden she was at my lodge."

"Well, and Mrs. Bird immediately said something

to blacken that pretty face, to darken its light in your
estimation. Women always do so if they have a
chance."

Mrs. Bird merely told me that though the girl had
such an artless look, she was no rustic maiden, but had
come back here from Bath, where she had for two years
been with a first-rate modiste."

Well, but surely Mrs. Bird could find no crime in
this?"

No, certainly. The sin lies in the cause of her
dismissal ; she is not a steady girl. And now, if your
curiosity is not sufficiently satisfied, you must suspend
further inquiry till Mrs. Bird applies the next wet
bandage," and the uncle arose from his chair and
glanced, as he spoke, expressively towards Helene.

Tresham nodded his head with a knowing, an amused,
and a saucy light dancing in his eyes, and was silenced,
as far as the girl at the lodge went, but he was presently
down again on Mrs. Bird.

You say you do not give coin to Oiseau for looking
after 'rem creatures' beetle sins'? No; but you give a
bribe, a bonus, a reward, nevertheless. Witness that
bussok and the garden chair. Why, d' ye think I
haven't heard of it ? Nay, uncle Charles, I Ve done
more ; I 've seen that nice little present of yours. I
met the old dame the very day after I left, driving
her bussok along a country lane ; and this morning,
while she was seeing to my arm, I made her relate.
She 's as proud of your gift as a monkey is of its tail.
That 's the way to bind her to your interest."

It was very good of you, dear," murmured Helene

softly, almost in a whisper, kneeling as she spoke before
St. Louis. The girl had seen that her patron's sensitiveness
was disturbed, if not wounded by Tresham's
words, or by the mocking, mirthful tone with which
those words had been seasoned. " Oiseau really loves
you," continued Helene ; " Oiseau deserves everything
you think fit to bestow upon her."

It is well," answered Sir Charles, with a deep sigh ;
it is well that there is one in the world who prefers
me."

Not only one," murmured the girl, still kneeling ;
and as she spoke these few last words, tenderly asa
daughter might, she pressed her lips against her
patron's wan and wasted hand.

Oh, my child," murmured Sir Charles in reply,
'' with the very young there is so much variation.
What is truth to-day might not be tomorrow."

Tresham, as we have seen, was not so poorly as to
be incapacitated from teasing his sensitive uncle, nor
from glancing when opportunity offered at Helene.
AVe have shown that on the day after his return to
Avonmore, he was comfortable enough to indulge in
these laudable feats. But with that contrariety which
seemed to be his distinguishing characteristic, next
morning, though, he came to breakfast with Sir Charles
and Helene, he complained of headache and thirst,
and that, do what he would, he could get no sleep all
night." He had tossed about the whole night, he said,
and was glad when he heard people moving, that he
might get up and have done with it.

This morning the pale olive of his countenance was
singularly relieved by a bright  a too bright  glow of
colour on each cheek, and when he shook hands with
his uncle on entering the breakfast-room, St. Louis felt
that the palm of the little white hand he offered was
hot and dry. He drank off two whole cups of tea
eagerly enough, but could eat nothing, and his features
were clouded over with gloom. He was very silent ;
his native love of mischief for the present subdued : it
could not survive under such a crushing headache.
Sir Charles could see plainly enough that Tresham was
really an invalid, and knowing how seldom he did suffer
from headache, restlessness, burning hands, and thirst,
wore an extra look of care on his own brow. In the
course of the morning eau-de-cologne and hartshorn were
called for by the sinner ; he declared his head ached
terribly.

"You had better go to your room again and lie
down," suggested uncle Charles ; " you may drop asleep
and be all right by dinner-time."

I am not going to my room at all," answered
Tresham with impatience in his voice, " I can't bear
my room. Let me lie down here on the sofa."

With all my heart," answered Sir Charles. " Stay,
let me get you a softer cushion for your head. There,
is that it?" placing the cushion handily enough.

Thank you, and now don't notice me. Keep on
talking to  to Miss Graham ; that 's more likely to
send me to sleep than my own thoughts."

But despite of Tresham's commands there was very
little said by Sir Charles, still less by Helene. She

could not help fanning that the terrible headache, the
flushed cheeks, the burning thirst, were symptoms of
some dire complaint, perhaps to end in death.

Ere two hours had passed away these seemingly
childish fears were shared by St. Louis. The prodigal
did fall asleep, and suddenly awoke, calling out, " Uncle
Charles, here, make haste ; I think I 'm faint," and
sure enough, Tresham was going to faint. Sir Charles
ran to the sofa and raised him up, but his head sank
back, his eyes closed, his features wore an unnatural,
a chastened beauty ; he was in a death-like swoon.

My dear Helene, can you undo the buttons of his
shirt-collar ?" asks the uncle, for his own arms were
engaged in supporting the senseless prodigal.

Helene obeyed, but her little brunette fingers
trembled as she did so.

And now," pursued Sir Charles, bring me the
hartshorn. Do not lose your senses," continued he,
seeing how the girl's own colour had fled, " he is not
going to die. These wild young drinking fellows, I
believe, must suffer for their madness."

"Is it only that?" asked Helene tremulously; "nota
fever coming ?"

u I cannot say what may be coming, but hush ! see,
he is better ; he is coming to himself."

Yes, I am better," murmured Tresham, opening his
eyes, and endeavouring to sit up. " Let me have some
brandy ; I must have something."

Ring, Helene," answered St, Louis with a sigh.
Ah, yes, brandy ; not alone, my dear boy,  water
with it, eh?"

Yes," answered the invalid, " soda-water."

Poor Sir Charles, so anxious to save his precious
heir-expectant ! " Thomas, bring the brandy and a
bottle of soda-water."

All, see how tenderly he himself does it all ; he
mixes it when it comes, carries it to the worthless
lad, who drains the glass, and is laid gently down again,
and now falls into a quieter sleep.

At night Tresham goes to bed early, only desiring to
have Thomas to sit in the ante-chamber adjoining his
bed-room, and " plenty of light." Tresham never
could bear the dark.

When Mrs. Bird came to Helene's room that night
to light her little night-lamp, as she always did when
the girl went to rest, she began to discourse to her
about Tresham's illness. " Oh, Miss Helene, it 's all
the hard life he leads, nothing' else, depend upon it.
It 's drinking' and sitting' up 0' nights."

From the moment when that little fainting fit occurred
to Tresham, a new phase might be said to have been
entered upon in the intercourse betwixt the uncle, the
nephew, and Helene. Though Sir Charles affected to
make light of the swoon, he was in reality nervous
about it. He was not sorry to have Helene by him incase
of a return. He suffered her, as we have seen, to
help him in the attentions he paid, and thus, as it were,
the hedge he had set up about the girl was totally
broken down.

Tresham spoke to Helene, Helene spoke to Tresham,
and no longer in studied phrase.

But there really had been nothing to fear. In that
week of absence Tresham had been sitting up too late,
and had been drinking too freely. His constitution was
not iron. It could not stand such appliances when
suffering also from the shock occasioned by the fall
in the steeple-chase. Had he been but commonly
prudent while sojourning at the " beastly inn," which,
however,' was a grand old-fashioned country hotel, he
had been well by now.

Three days after the day he fainted, he had so far
recovered as to declare himself fit and able to lounge

about the garden. He accordingly sallied forth, leaning
on a bludgeon-like stick, his hat set jauntily on his
head.

And whither did he go ? His walk extended to the
lodge, and as Mrs. Bird informed Helene, he was
actually seen talking to that dressmaking girl. " And
after all I told him too. Who 'd 'a thought it ?" The
old dame shook her head, and looked her worst of
disapproval.

Eeader, you may be sure that Oiseau told the uncle
too of this last misdeed.

Day after day passed, young Daubigny was evidently
becoming convalescent, and every day Oiseau reported
to Helene that he was seen gossiping at the lodge.

Sir Charles, at any rate, knew of his nephew's unhallowed
fancy now ; yes, and he solaced himself thus:
Tresham must play the fool with some girl or woman,
and perhaps it is as well just now he has taken a fancy
to this creature at the lodge. If report says truth,
she cannot fall lower ; yes, he finds the higher game
so well preserved, he has no chance, and Marion Scott,
with her pretty face and slip-slop modish airs, may
serve to-day  tomorrow."

Sir Charles then was deluded, St. Louis was off
his guard, Mrs. Bird was quite scandalised at the young
fellow's audacity, and Helene,  oh, what are girls, or
such girls we mean as our Helene, who was indeed
as yet but a vain, a foolish child,  so Helene,
our Helene, though she would have blushed to own
as much, absolutely coveted the attentions Tresham
paid the low-born damsel at the lodge. Instead of

curing her of the infatuation that began to possess
her, Oiseau's daily reports but heightened and deepened
it. She no longer sought to avoid the tender meaning
glance Tresham was too apt to bestow. She
dressed with greater care ; she took more pains to
arrange her burnished golden-tinted hair ; the little
brown hands were more frequently encased in gloves ;
there was a touch of coquetry in her manner. Yes,
Helene now sought to allure, to win back that she
thought she had lost. She was no longer reserved to the
nephew, except when the eye of her Saint was upon her.
How young Daubigny was laughing in his sleeve ;
he had made, he had found his opportunity. " I shall
succeed even yet," mused he ; "I shall make her confess
before I go that I am love itself."

Poor Sir Charles ! how at every point, from an
excess of sensitiveness, was he wounded ! Tresham's
thrusting himself into Avonmore when Graham was
away, when the girl's father was unconscious there was
such an addition to the household, was a sore trial to
him. To permit the young fellow, as he now was
doing, to reside in the house with Helene, was almost
like abusing the trust her father had reposed in him.
When Tresham had shown himself only occasionally,
when he had slept always at the fishing hut, there had
been no absolute necessity for Helene to mention in
her letters to her father that which they both knew
would be displeasing to him. But now that Tresham
for the time being was a resident at Avonmore, what
should be done ?

vol. 1. K

"You are writing to your papa, Helene ?" inquired
Sir Charles one morning after Tresham had become sofar
recovered as to take a daily walk in the garden.

Yes' answered the girl.

"Have you mentioned that my nephew had an
accident, and is at present domiciled here ?"

It is just that I am considering about," replied the
girl ; and Sir Charles noticed that as she spoke a blush
or a brighter colour dyed her cheek.

"Then you have not mentioned that my nephew
is here?"

"No. Must I? Ought I? Might it not bring
papa back too soon ?"

"My dear child, I am troubled myself. Happily,
it cannot last long. Tresham tells me that he applied
to his Colonel for an extension of leave, but that he
refuses. Consequently this clay fortnight he must beat
Woolwich doing military duty. He tells me he will
have to leave here perhaps a week earlier, as he must
be at home first."

I had not heard this," said Helene, looking down
and drawing her pen over the blotting-paper haphazard.
Then presently taking courage, she added,
Then he is to be in this part of the world only one
week more ?"

Only one week more," echoed Sir Charles.

Had the girl dared she had sighed  sighed deeply.
As it was, she sat resting her head on her hand with
her elbow on the table, pretending to be considering the
letter she was writing, but really, despite all that wisdom
or right feeling prompted, troubled and disturbed.

"Well," continued Sir Charles, now gazing upon her
with something of apprehension, " we were discussing
whether there was a necessity for mentioning to
your father that my nephew is here. I think myself
there is a necessity."

I can say," murmured Helene, somewhat confusedly,
yes, I can say that he is here, but that he leaves this
day week."

Yes, that will do ; and you may add, if you like,
that he would not have been here but for an accident."

Yes, I will write that," said Helene, and she did
write in this fashion. But ere she had directed her
letter, St. Louis and herself were surprised by the
sound of angry loud talking coming from the garden.
It seemed to be the voices of two people angrily
disputing.

Surely," said Sir Charles, " that is Mrs. Bird's shrill
voice, but who can it be so angrily answering her?"

The girl finished directing her letter and then ran
forth to see. While she had been writing she had had
beside her a little basket, in which to carry gathered
flowers. She now went forth basket in hand. The
two voices had died away. All was silence now. She
could hear nothing, and so she went dreamily on her
way a-gathering rosebuds. She had gathered, perhaps,
a dozen, when the voice of Mrs. Bird, still in contention,
sounded again. Yes, Helene could now catch
the words. " I will go to Sir Charles, that I will, Mr.
Tresham. You shall never use the poor thing this way."

"Do, you old hen-harrier. Go and tell him just
what you please," answered the heir-expectant.

Mrs. Bird was now making towards the great flight
of steps at the principal entrance of the house, but,
seeing Helene, she turned aside and came to her. At
the same moment the girl became conscious that
Tresham was driving at a rapid pace Mrs. Bird's
donkey, he occupying the garden chair.

"Oh, Miss Helene!" cried the poor nurse, "I don't
want, if I can help, to make a disturbance ; I don't
want to go to my master. Can you interfere ? Can
you get the poor thing away ? He 's cut a point to a
stick, Miss, and declares if the beastly ass, as he calls
it, won't gallop, he '11 make it bleed."

Oh, yes. Pray don't worry uncle Charles," for so
Helene now sometimes called her Saint. " I '11 see
what I can do."

On seeing the girl approach, Tresham pulled up the
poor frightened beast.

I want you," she cried, all blushing and hurried,
I want you to do me a favour, a great favour.

"What is it?"

Will you give Oiseau her donkey now, this
minute ? That is the favour I ask."

Will you do me a favour, a great favour ? " retorted
Tresham.

What is it ? " inquired our Helene.

Give me a red, red rosebud, and say, ' Tresham, for
my sake, keep it.' Do you know I must leave in one
short week ? Surely you will not refuse."

"You can get one from the young lady at the lodge,"
cries Helene.

"From the young lady at the lodge !" echoes he with

a sneer. " Oh! I have no doubt of it; bushels of roses,
full-blown roses, for the asking. Why are you talking
nonsense, Helene, now that we are alone? Give
me one now, this instant. Perhaps before another
minute is over your bird of wisdom, or the old hen-harrier,
may be down upon us."

No," cried the girl, with a pettish air, " I do not
choose to give a rosebud to a person who knows no
distinction, who can find pleasure in talking to a low
creature."

Helene," interrupted he, " do you really think it
possible I could care for such a thing as that at the
lodge ? But what have I to amuse me ? You are
everlastingly cooped up with your old owl. I scarce
dare speak to you. Tell me, answer me truly : Do
you not believe, are you not convinced, that you have
made a fool of me ? Never, never have I wished to be
quiet. Never has any girl touched my soul before.
Give me the rosebud. I swear it shall lie with me in
the grave."

I dare not," murmured Helene, her heart beating
quicker than usual, her eyes cast down. " I dare not.
There is my own conscience, there is papa, there is
St. Louis. All, all would condemn me if I gave you
any token with a meaning in it. Oh ! vous n'etes pas
ce que vous decried etre."

I will have one," cried he. " I swear that I will.
I will goad the beast to death if you do not comply."

Take it," cried the girl. " No, I will not give it
till you get out of the garden chair,  till I am in with
the reins in my own hands."

"Well," answered lie, descending from the chair,
get in ; take the reins."

The girl took Tresham's place. With one hand she
held the reins, with the other let fall upon the gravel
drive a bud of rosy red.

Take it," she said, and her voice was sad. " Take
it, but know that I feel I am doing wrong."

St. Louis's troubles now came thick and fast upon
him. He had sought Avonmore as a haven of rest, but
he was doomed to find it anything but that. Mrs. Bird
one morning informed him that there had been a serious
quarrel in the village alehouse between the footman he
had brought down with him and one of the keepers ;
that the swasher and insolence of Thomas had drawn
upon him the enmity of others besides the keeper ; that
even the village children, as Thomas averred, had insulted
him. " He wants to go back, sir," continued
Mrs. Bird, " and says his fellow-servant James would be
as thankful to be at Avonmore for the remainder of
your stay as he would be to escape from it. He wishes
to speak to you himself, sir."

We should here remark that this discourse was delivered
just as Sir Charles was descending to the
breakfast-room. Mrs. Bird had met her master on the
landing, and gave him this comforting piece of news on
his way down. On arriving at the breakfast-table, in
spite of Mrs. Bird's interruption of his progress thither,
he found, as he always wished it to be, that he was in
the room before his nephew, who, happily for the peace
of his uncle, had a taste for keeping late hours, and who

was apt to plead his present infirmity as an excuse for
his frequent irregularities.

This morning, however, before Helene had poured out
the second cup of tea for the uncle, the nephew appeared.
Thomas also appeared, but he did not at this early hour
attempt to intrude his wrongs upon Sir Charles. It was
not till about eleven o'clock that, tapping at the door,
Tummas requested an audience.

Tresham and Helene were both in the same apartment
as the master when Tummas asks and Sir Charles
grants him a hearing.

Tummas.  " If you please, sir, I wish to leave this
place, sir, as soon as suits your convenience ; not
your service, sir, but I really can't abide such treatment
anyhow."

You have been falling out with the people in the
village, I hear."

Tummas.  " No, sir ; it want me as fell out. 'Twas
they, sir, as fell upon me, sir. It 's all them, sir," says
Tummas, putting his hand pathetically on his scarlet
plush breeches ; "it's all them legs, sir, as does it."

Helene and Tresham, seated together at the far end of
the great room, heeded the discourse going on betwixt
Tummas and his master but little. They were talking
the nonsense of children.

Is he complaining of his legs ?" asked Helene of her
companion. " It 's only the old style, and I am sure it
was a prettier one. Now, your coat is spoiled by the rest
of your dress not matching. I wonder," said the girl
laughing, " that Oiseau did not attire you in the whole
suit, le veste et les demi culottes."

Are there such things ? " asked Tresham.

Yes ; I have seen the complete suit. And there are
lovely dresses, too, some of the ladies of that time wore.
I used to dress up when I first came. Sometimes, nay,"
she said laughing, " I remember not long ago  "

I wish you would let me see you dressed up," cries
Tresham, gazing upon the girl.

I wish you would let me see you dressed up," echoed
Helene.

First catch your fish. Pray, how am I to get anything
out of that old hen-harrier ? She 's ready, beak
and claws."

I can get them," says the girl ; " but what then ?"

I '11 put them on. But what then ? Will you promise
to array yourself too ? Will you come forth in a
suit to match ? "

"We should be just like the china figures I've
seen abroad," murmurs the girl ; " ornaments. Don't
you know a pair that match ?"

We need not be quite so rigid, nor quite so cold, I
opine," whispers Tresham.

Oh yes, we must be quite as rigid, quite as cold. If
you are not going to be like a china image I '11 have
nothing to do with it."

Well, I promise."

You promise on your honour to be quite still."

On my honour."

Well, then, I will lay in the corridor just by your
room the demi-culottes and the embroidered veste. But
stay," cries the girl, " where are the silk stockings and
the shoes?"

Oh, this extravagant old fellow here, this uncle of
mine indulges in silk stockings. I really believe he
always lives in silk stockings. I '11 go into his room
and seize a pair for the occasion. For the shoes, Thomas
brought me an absurd pair of French high-heeled
slippers, which he said master's man packed up always,
but which master never wore."

Well, then," whispers the girl, " you 're all right."

Rot a bit of it. Didn't these swells wear powder
and ruffles ? "

Ah, oui, certainement. The powder I can give you.
I '11 put a little box of powder with the clothes."

Powder me, there 's a sweet ; now, only powder me,"
imploringly asks Tresham.

Speak in that tone, look in that manner once again,
and I am off the bargain. C'est une chose fini."

There now, be tranquil."

Uncle Charles at this moment drew too near for
further discourse betwixt the nephew and his provide.
Tummas and he, however, were still discussing the
knotty point.

Tummas.  "James, sir, 's a- dying for country hair,
and I, sir, am a-longing, with your leave, sir, to be
back in town."

Uncle Charles.  " After all, it seems to me that a pair
of plain trousers instead of these scarlet things would
be the easiest course ; you could not be remarked upon
then."

Tummas.  " Yes, sir, but there 's never a tailor."

Uncle Charles.  " You're quite mistaken ; the village
schoolmaster was a tailor by trade. He is quite competent

to make you a pair of plain trousers. Mrs. Bird
has employed him. He does very well."

Tummas.  "For them chaw-bacon, sir. no doubt, but
I don't think,  I beg pardon,  but the fact is, sir, I
must beg to decline ; them legs " (putting his hands
pathetically on his breeches), "them legs, sir, has
never known the 'handling of a village snip."

You are a provoking fool," cries Sir Charles, turning
away, " and the sooner we part the better. I will
write for James .myself, or, what is better, I can do
without one of your paltry breed."

Tummas.  " I beg a thousand pardons, sir, and as for
poor Jeames, sir, he 's a- dying for country hair. He 's
country-bred, sir, and I am but a town-mouse, sir.
May be you '11 think better on it, sir."

"Uncle Charles," cries Tresham, hearing his uncle's
angry exclamation, " uncle Charles, I say, are you ina
rage? Does the flunkey want caning? Does he
want sticking ? Shall I come and run him through
the liver ?"

"Keep your folly for those who value it," retorts
the uncle, glancing as he spoke at Helene, whose
gravity had now wholly deserted her, and who,
laughing like a child, looked fearfully lovely and
mischievous.

Tresham made no reply to his uncle; he was apparently
searching for his gloves, which he protested
he had just before placed on the work-table by which
Helene had been sitting. He next went out of the
room, only to return exclaiming, " They 're nowhere in
the hall, they must be under your things," routing

about till he managed to slip under Helene's hand a
piece of paper, on which he had written thus : 

I shall enter the drawing-room with the tea dressed
en masquerade. You will not fail to greet me at the
same moment en costume. We-hall be a pair." And
the girl read the paper, and, looking up, caught
Treshaui's eye, and nodded her head silently, but with
a meaning glance, in reply.

"When Helene quitted the table after dinner, Tresham
presently also disappeared. Sir Charles, always in dread
of his nephew, remained in the dining-room scarcely
ten minutes longer. He went into the library, which
was now used at tea-time; the library, however, had
no tenants, and Sir Charles felt uneasy lest the twain
he sought might be closeted somewhere, or might be
strolling together in the garden or the park. He went
out and looked in every likely nook, but his search was
vain. He sought the vast half furnished drawing-room
and the picture gallery with like success.

The shadows of the summer eve were deepening, the
mist on the lawn was rising, the clouds overhead were
dark and heavy. Reentering the library, our unfortunate
master encountered Tummas bearing the tea-tray,
and this brought back to his mind the unpleasant
discourse he had had with the presumptuous fool in the
morning. Next Tummas appeared bearing on a waiter
the silver kettle and spirit lamp. Ere he had set his
burden down, he very nearly upset the whole, for, turning
his eyes towards the door, which at this moment was
thrown open, he beheld a spectacle of which he had

never seen the like. Tresham, arrayed in the salmon-coloured
suit, his dandified legs incased in our Saint's
silk stockings, his well-shaped feet in the Saint's
Parisian high-heeled slippers, his hair in powder, and,
closely following, Mademoiselle Helene in stomacher,
hoop, and train, her hair also in powder.

At the clumsiness of Tummas, Sir Charles, who hated
clumsiness, raised his eyes ; and then his eyes took in
the pair approaching him en masquerade. Tummas
was forgotten in this more serious subject of irritation.
"Helene!" exclaimed he, "Helene, how can you act
with such extreme levity ! I have been seeking you in
vain for the last hour. Tell me, where have you been ?
What have you been about ?"

"Dressing up ; it takes a long time. I went straight
from the dinner-table to my bed-room, and I have
come straight from my bed-room here."

And pray, may I ask, did you suggest this double
folly?"

"Well, scarcely, mais oui, moi. Yes, when you and
Thomas were talking about his legs, I said that that
costume was only the old style (blushing). I did say
there were demi-culottes and veste to match the coat
Mr. Daubigny had on."

And pray, who found these articles ? Who powdered
my nephew's head?"

I found them ; I laid them at his door ; but he
powdered himself."

Tresham here burst into an irrepressible fit of laughter,
which only added to his uncle's wrath.

Will it take you as long, Miss Graham, to undress

as it did to dress, pray? For I will not touch the
tea; you shall not make the tea while you are en
masquerade."

Oh ! pray don't be angry. Didn't I tell jow,
Mr. Daubigny, that we were to be only like a pair
of china figures ? Didn't I say we were to be as
cold and as rigid ? Didn't you give me your word of
honour?"

I did ; and am I not keeping my word ?"

Because you cannot help yourself, sir, I presume,"
broke from the martyr. " Go, Helene, and dispose of
your folly."

"Oh, sir," remonstrated the girl, "do not be so
unnecessarily displeased;" and throwing herself on her
knees before her guardian angel, and taking his reluctant
hand, she added, " Forgive me now ; let me only put
the tea into the tea-pot ; just wait that time," and
theatrically she pressed her lips to the pale thin hand.

"Why don't you remain rigid and cold with uncle
Charles, I say? Where's your rigidity now, eh?"
cries Tresham angrily.

I never said I 'd be rigid and cold with him, there 's
no occasion. He always takes care of me ; he is an
angeL"

St. Louis, despite his previous displeasure, evidently
felt flattered. " Helene, do not speak in this way, my
love," he murmured ; "I do not, but others may misunderstand
you."

I happen to be one of those others," cries Tresham.
I see no more reason why she should kiss your hand
than mine."

Then I see a thousand reasons," retorted the girl.
You are all mischief and wrong ; he is all truth and
good."

It 's a pity you don't go to Heaven together at
once," cries Tresham, stalking out of the room with an
angry frown on his brow.

We have seen that Tresham left the room when
Helene was kneeling before St. Louis. We have said
that he left the room in evident ill-humour. The fact
was, incredible as it may appear, Tresham had really
fallen in love, and was jealous of the intimacy, the
affection that existed between the " bird of wisdom "
and the young girl. His passion had entirely, for the
moment, extinguished his discretion, and he was ready
to be right down offensive to his uncle. A night of
wakefulness did not tend to sober him, and he came
down to breakfast next morning silent, gloomy, nay,
almost morose. He had been spoiled and petted all
his young life, and he could not bear interference,
especially in a case like this. Sir Charles, on account
of the last evening's demonstration, exercised more
vigilance than of late had been his custom. He would
give his nephew no possible opportunity of discoursing
with Helene privately. Perhaps this extreme caution
on the part of the uncle added to the nephew's
irritability. Perhaps Helene's obedience and attention
to St. Louis added to the younger man's wrath and
jealousy. At all events, by dinner-time he was so
disgusted, so irritated, he felt up to anything. Helene,

coquettish by nature, and gratified by the moroseness
of her young lover, a moroseness of which she guessed
the cause, perhaps inadvertently provoked him further.

As she quitted the table after dinner, playfully, yet
tenderly, she said to St. Louis, " You will not be long-before
you come to me, will you ? I promise to be
very good to-night." Then glancing at Tresham, who
rose to open the door to her, she bestowed upon him a
little curtsy and a provoking glance.

The girl had not been gone a quarter of an hour
when the pent-up storm broke forth.

I have been here, on and off, for a very considerable
time," remarked Tresham to his uncle, " and I am still
quite in the dark, sir, as to the nature of your connection
with Miss Graham. If it were not for your age
and infirmity, I should positively begin to think that
you intended marrying her ; but I admit that such an
act of folly is scarcely to be expected in a man of your
years and discretion. You must pardon me for my
freedom, but the only other feasible solution of the
mystery that occurs to me is, that the girl may be your
natural daughter. Tell me," added the nephew, " for I
have a right to know, does she, or might she claim
you as a parent ? I have only to add, that if you
do not mean to marry her, and if you are not her
father, your conduct in relation to her is anything but
creditable."

Imagine the effect this attack must have had on Sir
Charles, sensitive to the highest degree, delicate in
all his perceptions as he was. For a few seconds he
could not answer, and when he did reply, the fierce

anger that had been kindled in his soul gave to his
countenance a dignity, a spirit that Tresharn had never
seen there before.

"You are so steeped in sin, in guile yourself," he
cried, " that you see evil in everything. The innocence
of the girl, in your eyes, is doubtless craft, design. As
to Helene being my daughter, that infamous imagination
I shall not attempt to answer. I am certain you
have no such idea."

That is not true, sir ; I have such an idea."

'you coolly accuse me of being the most accomplished
of hypocrites."

I accuse you,  yes, I declare it again,  of either
loving her as an old man like you ought not to love
her, or else I accuse you of having had, like thousands
of other men, some intrigue of which she is the living-witness.
Are you, sir, immaculate? Will you say
that you are of a virtue, of a heroism above the royal
psalmist ? Did not he look on Bathsheba  "

I say you lie," cried Sir Charles, now fiercely rising.
Leave the room ;  leave my house this night."

Oh, certainly. I am ready. But remember, I go
with an unshaken conviction," and Tresharn quitted
the room, leaving Sir Charles in an agony of wretchedness
 a wretchedness made up of so many items that
we cannot fairly describe it. pL+% utb-~?LZX *X ' f/>+*L 1<lcJc

We can, however, say this much ; the mental strain
was so intense, that the weakness, the delicacy of the
flesh sank in the conflict. A faintness he could scarce
struggle against seemed as though it would overmaster
him. He threw open the window, then, as another

VOL. I. L

remedy, with trembling hand he poured out some wine.
He drank it. Yes, he was better. He repeated the dose
of wine, and presently he was a martyr to the headache.

But for the present we must leave our poor baronet
in the dining-room and seek Helene in the library.

Where is your uncle ? " asked the girl, when
Tresham entered the room alone, and took up a
position close, almost too near to her.

He is in the sulks."

In the sulks ? What does that mean ? That he is
angry ? That you have offended him ?"

It does."

And how came you to be so thoughtless ? Why
have you made him angry V

Ask me rather why I have not made him angry
before."

Why, you are always annoying him."

Not as I have annoyed him now. I have driven
the nail a little deeper in, I hope  nailed him to the
wall for the next hour."

You cannot have a good heart, or you would surely
strive  "

I tell you," cried Tresham, interrupting the girl,
in accents impassioned and new to her, " I tell
you I wanted to offend him. I am angry, and I have
every reason to be so. Can you point out the day, the
hour, when he has voluntarily left me alone with you ?
Has he not watched over me like a lynx ?"

"Well, what matters ?"

"Oh, I dare say not at all to you, of course, it
matters nothing. In fact, Miss Graham, I begin to

j

imagine the tenderness I observe betwixt my uncle
and yourself is verging on passion."

"What can you mean?" cried the girl, an angry
colour mounting to her brow. " Never was affection so
free from wrong as ours ; if I have any good in me I
owe it to his teaching."

"And you are ready to declare to me that you are
not in love with the old mummy?"

I declare," murmured Helene, " that our love is
only such as the angels in heaven might feel."

Young Daubigny gazed steadfastly on the girl as she
spoke. There was such a halo of truth, of sincerity,
in her beautiful but Gipsy-like countenance he could
not doubt. " My soul," continued he, " is scarce
lightened of one apprehension ere it grows heavy with
another. Tell me, is there no hidden secret, is there
no form, no vision of some absent person rises in your
dreams ? Can you be thus lovely, thus precocious, and
never yet have tasted earthly love ? "

No," answered Helene with a little embarrassment,
a little laugh, " no, I have never tasted of such dainty
fare."

"Will you dare to tell me that you have never
sinned this way, even in thought ?"

No, no indeed."

Tell me," he continued, still gazing upon her, " tell
me, has never the sound of a voice, the sound of a
footstep, waked sensation ? Oh that my voice, my
step, might weaken feeling ! Your step, Helene, your
voice, sends a thrill of feeling right through my very
being. You are silent, but you do not absolutely deny,"

he added, his ardent gaze searching her embarrassed
and blushing face. The girl's confusion, occasioned by
varied and conflicting feelings, was great, and turning
from him, she silently walked some steps away. Scarce
had she moved when hurriedly he followed. " They
say," cried he in accents wild and impassioned, " they
say that infection is engendered by a touch." He
seized, he pressed her hand. " Fain would I pour into
your soul the passion that has overmastered mine;"
and before she could evade or avoid him, his arms
were around her, she was locked in his embrace, his
lips had touched her own.

An indignant cry escaped the girl as she struggled
to be free and released from his grasp ; indignant words,
nay, tears of anger, poured forth too. " Is it thus,"
she cried, " you seek to win me ? You do not understand.
You may have practised successfully such
measures with the low-born, the base, the mean ; such
creatures might value the insult you have offered, but
know, sir, that I am none of these. I claim to be  "
But here our poor Helene paused. She must not betray
her absent father ; she must not tell that through him
she descended from a Scottish king ; she must not say,
My mother was a Vane."

She sank down in a great leathern chair, and covering
her face with her hand, the elbow resting on the
chair's great arm, she wept almost like a child. But
soon, very soon, she rose, intending to quit the room,
but the audacious Daubigny, seeing her footsteps tend
towards the door, placed his back against it, and thus
barred her passage.

Let me go out instantly  instantly," cried Helene.

I will not," lie retorted, " not until I have told you
that, angry as you are, I cannot be sorry for my trespass.
In that kiss was concentrated a rapture, the
memory of which will remain with me through all the
evil years to come. Helene," he continued, in tones
deep and mournful, "Helene, I have played the fool
with many women, but you are the first, the only girl
I ever loved."

I thank you," cried Helene, " for this your last
favour, this act of confidence. Oh ! " she exclaimed, " I
will never believe one word that you utter ; I have
heard, I have been warned."

You have been told, no doubt, that I am a very
devil ; it matters little, I have but a few more days to
be here. We part, Helene, never to meet again. I feel
that you might have reclaimed me, I feel that you
might have made me fitter for the destiny that Heaven
has appointed, but I know that it cannot be."

Some one is at the door," cried the girl.

I hear nothing. Ce n'est queene petite ruse ; mais
Je suis ici, J'y reste."

There was, however, a knock for admittance ; there
had been one before.

Reckless as the young fellow was, he dared bar the
girl's passage no longer. He opened the door and Mrs.
Bird entered.

Oh, it is you," he cried, with an affectation of playfulness
in his manner, " it is you ; and pray, what has
brought you here ? Have you come to look after the
child ? Have you brought her pinafore ? Have you

come to take her off to bed ? Will you extend your
care to me too ? Will you take us both into the nursery,
make twins of us ? "

Oh, sir," answered Mrs. Bird, " you 're quite past
me, sir ; I don't really understand. I came about my
master, who was indeed once my nursling."

Lord, Mrs. Bird, are you then old as Methuselah ?
Imagine my uncle a child ! Why, I look upon him as a
hundred at least. "

"And wish he was so, eh, sir?" shrewishly asked
the nurse, and without waiting for a reply from
Tresham she addressed herself to Helene, " I came fora
cup of tea for Sir Charles ; will you pour me one
out ? He has a bad headache, and sent Thomas to me
for the hartshorn."

Oh, the tea 's icy cold," cried the nephew, pretending
to feel the tea-pot ; " you 'd better go and make him
some fresh."

Perhaps I 'd better," answered Oiseau ; " but, Miss
Helene, you will come with me and pour it out for my
master ; I know that it will please him. He is still in
the dining-room."

"Let me just go and fetch something I left in my
bed-room and then I will come," answered the girl,
conscious that her hair might be somewhat disarranged
by the embrace she had endured, besides which she
felt a certain degree of agitation.

Helene's hair was in some disorder, and Mrs. Bird's
piercing eyes had not failed to detect this, and that she
looked as though she had been crying. In a moment
the shrewd old dame coupled these appearances with

the obstruction at the door, and she mentally determined
that Mr. Tresham had been in mischief.

Happy had it been for the girl if at once she had
made a confidant of the old nurse, and had revealed to
her the sinner's trespass. But, on the contrary, for
some reason we cannot explain, she went to her room
without saying a word, smoothed her ruffled hair, and
endeavoured, on descending to the dining-room, to
appear as though Tresham had committed none.

"Is he gone?" was the martyr's first question after
she had begun to pour out his tea.

I really do not know," answered Helene. " Oiseau
tells me," she added somewhat hurriedly, " that you
have a headache."

Yes, and I have the heartache too. That unfortunate
boy will some day finish me, I believe. I suffered
myself to grow angry I was more than angry. I am
indeed excessively offended. He has deliberately
insulted me. I desired him to leave the room 
I bade him leave the house to-night. Why are
you trembling? Helene, your hand is trembling as
you hold my cup."

No wonder," answered the girl, " when I hear of
such quarrelling. You must have been more angry
than I could have believed possible."

Ah, my love, you have only seen the sunshine of
my nature. It is capable of storm. I was once, ere I
strove so very hard to conquer the defect, a very passionate
man."

"Then," murmured the girl, kneeling before him,
when I christened you St. Louis I was right. Tell

me," she continued, " will you be quite one now, and
forgive Tresham?"

No," answered Sir Charles, starting up, and exhibiting
to the girl a countenance suddenly flushed and
excited, " I will not forgive him ; that is to say, I
will not overlook his offence. I will not see him if
he stay."

Startled, grieved, astonished, the girl rose and sat in
trembling silence. She believed she should never see
Tresham Daubigny again.

Perhaps some young girl who reads Helen e's story
may be able to imagine how she felt this evening.

Love comes at what day, at what hour ? Know we
exactly when ? No, it steals upon us ; it is present, it
is influencing us ere we are conscious of its existence.
Helene had that sort of love for Tresham that is as
impossible to define as to account for. She knew him
to be worthless. She knew that he might be faithless,
yet he had waked in her being, in her heart, that first
blind love which is, as it were, a tribute nature exacts.
She might struggle to conceal, she might eventually
conquer it ; but evermore memory would retain young
Daubigny's image ; evermore memory would recall the
blush that rose, the little tremulousness his coming near
produced, the soft delight that reason bade her disavow
even to herself. And so all this evening she sat chill
and drooping, under the blast that had, as she believed,
swept Tresham for ever from her sight.

Sir Charles was suffering so terribly from nervous
headache, and he was still so troubled, so indignant,

that he did not notice so much as he would have done
in a calmer moment the girl's pale cheek and drooping
attitude. At ten o'clock he left the room and went upstairs
to bed. Helene waited scarce a minute after his
departure. How glad she was to reach the door of the
great chamber she called her own !

It was Mrs. Bird's custom of a night to meet Helene
when she heard her in the corridor, and come to her
room for a minute or two to see that her little night-lamp
was ready, and that she had all she might require.
But on this occasion Helene told her not to come with
her, but to go and see after Sir Charles. They both
knew that Thomas was offensive to the master, and his
valet, his valet of pretension, had been left in London.

Safe from observation, the girl threw herself on to
the bed and gave way to the tears that were a relief to
her burdened spirit. Half an hour might have passed,
not in weeping, for our Helene was not given to long
fits of weeping. She soon had driven away her tears,
but she could not conquer thought. So that still there
she lay on the outside of the bed, not even thinking of
undressing, when a gentle tap sounds at her door.
It is Oiseau," conjectures Helene, and however mucha
nuisance her presence just now would be, she felt
obliged to say, " Come in."

On permission being granted, the door was opened,
but only a very little, and the voice she had thought to
have heard no more murmured, " I suppose I must not,
but will you take this note ?"

"You, Tresham!" exclaimed the girl. "Oh, pray
go away. You must not come to my room, at this

time of night too. I thought you had gone  I thought
that you had gone for ever."

I only ask you to take this," he answered.

Helene went to the door and held out her hand. He
seized the hand, and pressed it tenderly, passionately.

This, then," said she, " is our last meeting."

That depends upon yourself."

I thought," she said again, " that you had gone."

Well, I did go  I was driven in the dog cart ; but
I had scarcely entered the fishing-hut when I began to
think over our last interview. I began to regret that
I had taken the liberty I did. I determined to return,
and myself, if possible, deliver a note."

"Hush !" whispered Helene, " surely I hear a sound.
Pray go."

Only promise not to refuse the request contained
in my note, and I am gone."

I will see," she murmured, " only go. Goodnight,"
and Helene, in fear and trembling lest there
had been a witness of Tresham's apparition, closed
her door.

The note was one such as very young and very impassioned
lovers write. Of course the request he had
alluded to was the real subject, the pith of the composition.
He begged that the girl would come down to the
river's side at eleven, or half-past eleven, next morning,
and speak to him. "I promise," he said, " not even to set
my foot on Avonmore. I will remain rigid as you can
desire in the boat on the cold waters. I only ask you
to stand on the river's side amid the rocks, and speak
a few kind words to me. I name eleven o'clock, because

I know my uncle Charles is usually engaged writing
letters then."

Oh, what a trouble was this request to Helene !
What would it cost her to grant it ! What would she
have mentally to endure if she refused it ! To go,
secretly, stealthily, and meet the sinner, was it not
acting a falsehood? But new-born passion pleaded.
What a tempest-tossed heart, and conscience distinctly
and constantly uttering reproach !

Unsullied broke the summer dawn; no mist arose,
no cloud stole o'er to dim the morning's beauty. The
eastern sky was all one vivid golden glory, and the
morning's glory now was shed upon the river's eastern
side, where rose vast rocks all bare and hoary. But
amid these hoary rocks were interstices, hollows, dim
and deep, wherein the leafy soil had drifted. The
hand of man, so seldom idle, here intruded not to add
to or destroy. Hence nature's soil was clad with nature's
loveliest vegetation. Like the green islets that one
reads of in the desert were these oft-recurring crevices
of verdure betwixt the bare and hoary rocks. Some of
these chasms were emerald green. Clothed they were
with nature's pensive and retiring treasures ; lined
they were with masses of wood, sorrel-creeping mosses,
and low growing ferns. From others of these interstices,
from those more deep, more dim, arose in
mightiest form and in majestic grace the green and
glossy leaves of hart's-tongue.

And there were islets, too, amid our hoary rocks,
where the joyous sunlight strove and played. These
now were gay with bright pink ragged robin, blue
forget-me-not, and large white daisies ; and from this

pretty field of flowers emerged to twine about the
rugged rock the stems of honeysuckle, laden now
these twining stems with their rich freight of gold and
pinkish blossoms. Oh, what masses of sweet beauty,
scenting all the morning air !

And ever and anon, above the river, drooped the
mountain ash, the silver birch. These trees, rooted
in the rock's dark crevices, seemed sustained as by a
mystery, they seemed to have so little soil wherein to
find support. In strange wild grace, at intervals they
hung across the river, their pliant boughs touching the
tall green rushes at the river's side.

We must not, however, linger in this scene of
nature's wildest loveliness, but hasten to the outer
circle of lawn adjoining the park,  to that portion of
the garden at Avonmore left a little rude, a little wild,
to the strip or circle of lawn that could be kept
sufficiently in order by less skilful hands than those
of the several resident gardeners. On this now were
at work two lads. I call them lads because they were
not boys in appearance, and yet they had scarce
attained to the age of manhood. They were not constantly
employed at Avonmore, but had been picked
up to assist in the summer's extra work. From early
dawn had these two poor stray lads been a-mowing,
and their labour nearly completed, they were about to
decamp, bent on breaking their long fast and having a
rest. No home had either lad to go to. They were
strangers in the village. Their resting-place must bea
shady bench beside the ale-house door, their fare a
lump of bread, a slice of bacon or of cheese, and a half-pint

of beer. The younger fellow of the two might
have been termed handsome but for the hard life he
had led. That had done much to efface the inherent
delicacy of the image God had set up. Yet, despite
of hardship, ill-treatment, starvation almost pending,
there remained in Archie's features an inextinguishable
beauty. He was tall and well-proportioned even
to his hands and feet, and in every movement was an
agile dexterity that, had he been reared tenderly, had
been an agile grace. His cap was set jauntily on his
head, and, however shabby his attire, there was a
something in himself that defied his very rags. Suddenly
he pauses in his last labour of wheeling away
the barrow filled with the new-mown grass. He is
listening to the chime of the great outdoor clock,
which is telling the Avonmore household, the Avon-more
villagers, that it wants a quarter to seven.

I declare, Bill," says he, wiping his damp brow
as he speaks, " I declare it ain't our regular time yet.
It wants a quarter to seven. My lips is all a-fire, and
my stomach 's empty as a drum. I don't know hardly
which is worst  to be a-fasting of a-mornin' a-mowing,
or to be all the afternoon a-hoein', as I was yesterday,
without a leaf to shadow me till the blessed e'en.
Sure, we poor are born but to be cursed. That 's, at
least, how I take it."

That 's how ye fain 'ud make it," answered the
other. " Archie, we brings curses on ourselves. Ye
know," he added, pausing in his labour, and gazing on
his companion, "ye know ye 're an idle dog. Now,
ain't ye ?"

"Idle!" cries Archie, "don't I earn every pennyworth
of bread I eat ? Ain't I ben a-scorched this
summer a-hoein', scorched till I were dry as the dust
itself'? Ain't I brown as any glover's leather? What
would ye have more of me ? I swear, as I was a-
hoeing' yesterday, my blessed head a-spun round like
any top. Idle or no idle, I 'm not a-going to work no
more th is day."

"Not a-going' to work no more this day?" echoed his
friend in a voice of astonishment.

No ; at any rate, not till the heat ha' past a beetle.
I ha' made up my mind to it, so it 's no use a-plaguing
me. I shall just go, Bill, and lay me down among
them tall rushes as grows by the river yonder."

"You're not ruin' a-fishing', Archie ?" asked his wiser
or more timid companion ; " 'cause, yer know, it 's
forbid. The stream ain't free."

Who the devil 'full know," asked Archie, " whether
I 'm a-fishing' or no ? I 'm not a-going' in a place where
any eyes can see me. What with them rocks and the
rushes  "

When peoples does wrong, they 's often found out
marvellous like. We'd better not go among them
rushes at all."

I tell ye I shall" answers Archie. " Bother ye,"
and the lad broke out in a voice of ringing clear
melody : 

' Green grow the rashes, !
Green grow the rashes, !
The sweetest hours that e'er I spend
Are spent among the lasses, 0.'"

Where picked ye up that snatch 0' song ?" inquired
Bill.

My grandfather used to sing it. He was a Scotchman,
and he were ever a-comin'' out wi' summit that
told his thoughts were in his ' ain bonnie land as he
card it. And my old grandam were ever a-chidin' him
for 't ;  summit he 'd done as were bad when he were
a youngster, and that had brought him down, and me
too, ye see. Never mind, I '11 sing as well as he 

' Green grow the rashes, !
Green grow the rashes, ! '"

Leaving these two poor lads to pursue their way
towards the bench beside the village ale-house door,
I must now endeavour to place distinctly before the
mind of my reader some particular portions of the
exterior of the mansion at Avonmore. I have said
that the style of the building is Italian, that the house
is on a large grand scale, but that there is little or
nothing of the picturesque about it. Imagine, then, a
superbly ornamented portico in the centre, a palace-like
flight of steps leading up to this, the principal
entrance of the house. Imagine a range of lofty but
rather narrow windows on either side of the portico,
another range of windows above almost as lofty, a
smaller set of windows peeping out from under the
Italian-looking roof, and you have the front view of
Avonmore. The back view of the house we need not
describe, it was a mere match in regularity and style
to the front. But the two side views of Avonmore,
facing east and west, though perhaps not to be denominated

actually picturesque, yet presented a decided
variation from the uniformity of style prevailing in the
principal portions of the mansion. The front and the
back of the edifice were merely copied from an Italian
villa of renown, but the two sides were arranged
according to the fancy of the English architect who had
directed and presided during its erection, and the eye
rested with a sense of relief on the irregularities which
that fancy had been permitted to perpetuate. On the
western side rose high above the roof an ornamental
clock and bell-tower, and very light and elegant were
its proportions. On the front of this tower was the
fine old clock to whose chimes the poor lad just now
was listening. In it hung a silvery-toned bell that,
until sporting Tom decamped, had called the numerous
household to prayers and to meals. We shall not go
into wearying particulars of window and roof, but carry
our reader at once to a part of the dwelling on its
eastern side which, alas for my heroine ! is painfully
connected with her story. Here, then, projected out
on to the lawn an orangery. It is of the same age or
date as the mansion itself, and had been constructed,
as I have seen some other old houses reared about
that period for the growth and protection of orange-trees,
with a flat roof covered with lead, and sash
windows in the front. In the Avonmore case, however,
there was a slight deviation or addition, rendering the
orangery more elegant in appearance, and better for
the health and growth of the plants themselves. In
the centre of the leaded roof rose a small octagon-shaped
glass cupola, which could be elevated at plea-vol.
1. M

sure about a foot, for the freer admission of air. On
the outside of the orangery's leaded roof, at its edge,
ran round an ornamental work of delicately disagreed
iron, rising perhaps one foot, and thus the roof of the
orangery formed a complete balcony to the windows of
the room looking on to it. And the windows that did
open on to this leaded roof were the windows of the
room Helene loved, were the windows of the great
chamber with its cornice of festons dor 6s, its hangings of
chamois, which she as a child had so much regretted
to leave.

We have shown again and again the romantic devotion
with which Sir Charles Daubigny regarded his
protege. It was as much the torment and the delight
of his soul as George Selwyn's absorbing attachment to
Mie Mie had been.

When Helene ceased to reside at Avonmore and
went with her father to the cottage, Sir Charles wrote
instantly on her departure to Mrs. Bird, desiring that
no single thing that Miss Graham had used during
her occupation of the great chamber should be moved
out of it. " Let everything," he wrote, " remain precisely
as Miss Graham left it." Yes, henceforward for
him that chamber, with its festons doris, its hangings
of chamois, was sanctified. He called it Helene's
room, and, of course, when the girl returned to Avon-more
she again occupied it.

As it behoves me to be very accurate in my description
of the great chamber hung with chamois, I must
not omit to state that its lofty windows came down to
within a foot of the floor ; that thus there was no difficulty

in attaining the leaded roof of the orangery. I
may also add that, like every other sleeping apartment
of size and importance at Avonmore, at the chamber's
entrance from the corridor was a vestibule or antechamber.


The clock that sends afar its sonorous chine was hither
brought from Italy. For half the village poor it marks
the time ; each little household listens for its chime,
and trusts to it implicitly.

'Tis said Sir Gilbert Louis Daubigny, sojourning in
that southern clime, dwelt near an ancient monastery,
which, however picturesque and sublime, threatened to
fall on to the community if it tarried longer time.

The sisters quitted their retreat reluctantly, to find
one suitable but of a newer style. It was found indeed
to be a difficulty, but at length the venerable pile was
left to its forlorn and falling destiny.

Day by day our baronet had heard meanwhile the
chime borne on the breeze, how exquisitely. " Would,"
cried he, " I could beguile the Abbess into bargaining
commercially." Sir Gilbert wrote, I cannot give his
style, but I know he wrote persuasively, for the holy
mother in a very little while answered, asking for the
clock exorbitantly, adding, with all a wily woman's
guile, that it would be acting sacrilegiously to denude
the venerable pile, unless, indeed, she had such indemnity
as would suffice to glorify the aisle of the new
chapel used by her community. Had our baronet

been mercantile, he would have answered assuredly
that to give so much was not worth his while. But he
had been reared magnificently. At his banker's, too,
lay heaps of gold, for his had been a long minority.

So Sir Gilbert Daubigny, as we are told, willingly
paid the sum demanded, charmed that the Lady
Abbess thus had sold the chime that never ceased to
soothe him infinitely, even when he was sad, bowed
down, and old.

And when one hears the old clock's sweet-toned
chime, arise before the mind how vividly dim half-forgotten
scenes of other climes, visions of cities,
picturesque and old, wherein from steepled church or
hidden monastery one hears, as it were almost perpetually,
such marking of sad fleeting time.

How oft this once monastic clock has told the hour
to sad recluse, waiting wistfully to steal into the chapel
dim and old, where daylight strove through shields of
heraldry set in the diamond panes,  azure, ruby, gold.

And when the sunbeams struggled through, playfully,
they danced upon the marble pavement, worn and old,
chequering it with colours ; variously, as in the arched
windows, tinted were the gorgeous coats-farms. Such
was the chapel of the falling monastery, whence sentiment,
or perhaps mere whim, induced the wealthiest,
proudest Daubigny to tear this art-treasure, which,
for him, sounds no more, yet speaketh still its melody,
sad as notes of dirge-like hymn o'er the rich man's
grave, through the vale of Avonmore.

But now its sweet tones, soft and sonorously, o'er
bright-hued flowers, white-bloomed acacia trees, are

borne towards the orangery on the scarcely moving
eastern "breeze.

Yes, tells the chime, 'tis half-past seven ; and though
it be but early hour, the summer sun so long has risen,
and shines with such unwonted power, that even at this
so early time the balcony, the orangery, are genial as
that southern clime where long was heard the sweet-toned
chime. The mansion's roof on this its eastern
side, hangs o'er in foreign style projecting. Beneath
the roof are brackets which divide the space, and grace
it ornamentally. The corner bracket forms a sheltered
nook, in which a pair of swallows breed unfailingly. Is
it instinct brings them with the spring to look again
for this their little hostelry ?

And now they have a nest, and have lured two of
their young down on to the flat-roofed orangery, and
with voice and gesture fain would woo the other two
also to try their liberty. With shrill wild cries, with
oft-repeated upward flight, the old birds try, but not
as yet successfully.

And can it be that still our Helene sleeps ? Her
windows are indeed enshrouded yet. Closed are the
curtains of deep chamois. But sleeps the girl when
nature keeps such holiday, and with such shrill cries
o'er  such twittering in her balcony ?

Yes, Helene sleeps. The long, long hours of night,
passed betwixt passions, pleadings, and more righteous
fears, have wearied her so out, that now for her
'tis night, and voice of bird the girl nor heeds nor
hears.

Oh for an artist's gift, his magic power, that to my

reader's sight I might convey a picture visibly of
Helene as she all careless in her beauty lay this summer
hour. Can words, mere words, depict, portray ? Can
words suffice to trace that impression of that lovely but
Gipsy face ?

As the girl sleeps unconsciously, shrouded it is in
some degree by tresses straying carelessly, dishevelled
in the tossing of the night. Deep brown those tresses
in the shade, but burnished gold, all sparkling bright,
when noon-tide sunbeams on them played and as it
were, around her head a glory made. The brows were
pencilled, arched, dark. The closed lids shut out from
view eyes of tenderest sapphire blue ; and the eyelids,
heavy now with sleep, are bravely set, with fringes
tawny, tipped with jet.

How gracefully the girl is lying ; her form voluptuous,
well denned. The summer heat has lately been so
trying, and no window in her chamber has a blind, but
only curtains of deep chamois. No w T under if she has
but over her, beside her broidered cambric robe de
cit, one single sheet of lawn to cover her. And thus
'twould be as easy now for me to trace the form voluptuous
as the witching face. But I refrain, return
to my first venture. Need as rosebuds ere their leaves
unclose are Helene's pretty pouting lips, and fragrant
as the opening rose the breath that steals away in
sighs for Daubigny. AVith all her beauty Helene had a
nose, certainly not Grecian, still less Woman. Perhaps
this defect, if defect it were, arose for that in years
she was yet scarcely woman. Childish its form, of no
description, unless we call it zingaree, Egyptian. Poets

compare the cheek's perfection to the rounded peach inform,
in hue. But the peach may have an inclination
to a sickly or a wax-like hue. Helene's cheek was
moulded as the peach, 'tis true ; but to its blonde
tints her cheek had no pretension. Her bloom was
of that richer, sunnier dye that tells of life beneath
an eastern sky.

Yes, Helene sleeps, and as we said before, veiled are
her windows in deep chamois ; but in her chamber still
the shaded night-lamp burns, supplying partially the
excluded light of day, and close beside the bed, upon a
high and carved stand of ebony, a tall wax taper burns
its soft and chastened ray, resting on the girl and on
the bed of chamois. And here, in a few brief sentences,
we must explain how it was the tall wax taper came
to be burning on an ebon stand so near the bed of
chamois.

Awake, but still in bed, had Helene lain until the
depths of night were o'er; but when she heard the
blackbird sing, the swallow twitter, she could endure her
weariness no more, she rose and sought this stand of
ebony. 'Twas heavy, far too heavy for that little hand,
but she would not be defeated ; gradually, with exertion
oft repeated, she brings it to the bed of chamois. Then
to the toilet-table did she flit, and with a twisted bit of
paper lit one of the tall wax tapers Oiseau there had
set the day before, bearing it lighted to the carved
stand of ebony. Next, casting off each little Gipsy
foot a heelless slipper, she climbs the mighty bed, and,
with stately canopy overhead, again, again, again she
reads Daubigny's letter. Oh, ever had the reading

of that letter ended all the same. As she thought of
going stealthily beside the river, came athwart her
conscience and her pride a shudder and a shiver, and
to her brow there rose a glow of shame. Then fancy,
passion, pictured him a-lying on his oars awaiting for
her coming,  awaiting, but in vain. And as fancy thus
depicted him, would fall the burning tears she could
no more restrain. Conscience, honour, rectitude, said
ever, always, No ; but passion, anguish, pleading, overcame
her scruples, bade her thither go.

Worn out with doubt, at length our Helene sinks
to sleep unconsciously. Fallen from her hand the
sinner's letter. Unconscious she that on the sheet it
open lies ; unconscious she of burning waxen light
beside the bed of chamois, upon the carved stand of
ebony.

At length she wakes to feel that 'tis a world of woe.
Ah, how she sighs, how heavily, as her gaze rests upon
his letter ; and then she gazes round, thinks of the
placid past, when she was happier and far better. But
oh, the past, its placid peace is gone for her for ever !

Custom had rendered prayer necessity ; she rises,
casts herself upon her knees beside the bed of chamois.
But oh ! this hapless morn her prayer was but a
mockery. 'Twixt every holy word she said thrust in
the voice, the form of Daubigny.

And Helene dresses somewhat hastily, for she hears
its silvery chime, and then the out-door clock strikes
eight. St. Louis had one slight peculiarity, he could
not bear punctuality ; and with a tinge of coming
age, desired to have his breakfast regularly at half-past

eight. On entering the library, where breakfast now
was served, the girl felt a little awkwardly as her Saint
observed, " Helene, you are late. When last night you
left me in that wretched state, you might have thought,
my love, I should not like to wait."

I know I 'm late," cried she confusedly. " Some evil
fate has surely been against me ; everything to-day
goes wrong."

He gazed upon her curiously, inquisitively ; he was
scarce satisfied, his faith was somewhat shaken. But,
like a very saint in charity, he did his best ; he tried to
feel, to hope he was mistaken.

Helene was now about to weave the first loop in the
web of her destiny. For the first time in her life an
opportunity was afforded her of acting in a grave
matter according to her own judgment. Good and
evil were set before her, temptation of the strongest
kind was proffered. Would she choose to drink of
this delicious poison ? Would she choose to bring
upon herself sorrow, misery, spiritual degradation ?
She had a perfect consciousness that to yield was to
err. The still small voice of conscience again and
again had bidden her to resist, and in the lonely hours
of night she had listened to the suggestions of this
holy monitor in fear and in trembling. But in the
sunny light of the lovely morning that now dawned
upon her, this better feeling, these righteous scruples,
were fast vanishing away. That that she had felt certain
she ought not to do, that that she had decided not
to do when the pale moon shone amid the fleecy clouds
of night, had lost its impossibility, was almost divested
of its impropriety, now that the sun's rays glowed
upon her balcony and danced upon the scarcely
moving boughs near.

It is wonderful with what rapidity the mind can

accommodate itself to wrong, when once a determination
to err lias been formed. How we can trample out
the light, the fire of conscience and conviction, and
walk almost as it were unconcernedly over the ashes
of truth.

Very soon after breakfast Helene's scruples withheld
her no longer, she had cast them aside. She would
meet Daubigny, she would, she must see him once
again. She would walk down to the Avonmore
landing-place, she would speak to him but for a few
brief minutes, she would bid him a last farewell, and
then return. The girl by this time was so infatuated
she could begin to think of her appearance, of her
dress ; she began to consider what dress she should
wear on this to her momentous occasion. With the
vanity that was a part of her nature, she would fain
impress her lover, at this their last interview, with a
sense of her elegance. He had arrived at Avonmore,
as he himself had almost confessed, believing her to bea
very inferior person. She was, naturally enough,
desirous that he should carry away a far different
impression, and with this view she determined to be
attired as elegantly as though she were about to appear
at a fete. She chose to put on her last new dress, a
creamy white Indian muslin, trimmed with lace and
blue ribbons. Not, however, until she had seen Sir
Charles thoroughly occupied over his letters did she
dare venture to adopt this bewitching costume ; she
knew, were he to see her thus arrayed at so early an
hour, it might draw forth some embarrassing remark,
it might excite his suspicions.

At length, finding him in deep consideration, she
seizes the happy moment, leaves the room, steals upstairs,
and rapidly prepares for her stealthy walk. As
she stood before the glass, it struck her that the locket
she had on did not harmonise with the blue trimmings
of her dress. She must have a locket with blue stones
in it, and seeking her mother's jewel-box, she found
and abstracted from it the very thing, a locket set with
turquoise and diamonds. Another minute or two, and
a ribbon was found of a colour to match the bows on
her dress. Hastily she tied the locket round her little
Gipsy throat, gazed once more at her own reflection in
the mirror, and was satisfied. Never, indeed, had the
hapless girl looked more lovely. If at this very
youthful age there was a fault in Helene's beauty, it
was that her colour was almost too brilliant ; but the
agitation of her spirits, the fluttering of her heart,
caused now a pallor rather to subdue her natural
bloom. Nay more, the errand she was bent on, the
wakefulness of the night she had passed, gave a languor,
a softness, which added to her fascination.

To get to the river's side there was no occasion to
leave the Avonmore grounds. Our Helene then wore
neither hat nor bonnet ; her brown burnished gold hair
was braided simply round her beautifully-shaped head,
one or two long tresses only being permitted to escape
and wave and sparkle in the sunny air. She carried
with her a little flower-basket, that it might appear
she was merely bent on her daily errand of gathering a
nosegay. We have said before that frequently she
would run out in the burning sun without a parasol to

shade her. In like manner she would run out in the
garden with gloveless hands ; and thus, shaped welland
very small, yet were our heroine's hands anything
but pearly white. She had no gloves on now, they lay
in her flower-basket ; nevertheless, the little cream-coloured
fingers sparkled with rings.

And here, perhaps, some fine lady who wears gloves
herself through every stage of life's dull journey may
cry out that " Helene positively must be a vulgar little
thing." Then I who write the girl's story shall retort
thus 

Can you, fair lady, walk with such a harmony of
grace as Helene ?"

Ah ! behold her, pity her infatuation. She has gone
forth now, and is walking with a perfect grace towards
the river side. We have spoken of the vast and hoary
rocks that rise upon the river's eastern side; it is
towards these hoary rocks, by a winding path, winding
through shrubbery and brushwood, that Helene now
takes her way. She seeks the only level piece of
ground by the river side,  that known as the landing-place.
Scarcely a natural break in the rugged masses
of stone could this level be ; probably at some far-oft
period the rock had been blasted to form it.

The girl has now reached this little verdant platform,
she stands shadowed by the hoary rocks that rise on
either side. Anxiously she gazes on the gliding waters
at her feet; it was but a moment's suspense. Daubigny
had been lying on his oars behind the rocky screen
already a fall quarter of an hour ; he has heard her light
foot-fall, he catches a glimpse of the white dress. Now

ore they discoursing, he still in his boat on the cold,
cold waters, she on the green bank a little above.
Ifappy had it been for her if she had kept to her
resolution, if here she had bidden him a last farewell.
But who, having taken one wrong step, can be certain
they will not take another? At length the wily
Daubigny persuades her to get into the boat ; he
rows her to an indentation amid the rocks, they quit
the boat, unseen, as they believe, they sit in this
solitude, his arm has stolen round her waist.

Having succeeded thus far in his endeavours, the
sinner is now emboldened to plead for further indulgence.
"Must this," he murmurs, "be the last hour
that I shall care to live ? Must darkness fall upon my
soul so soon? Is it possible that never more I may hear
the one voice I care to hear?" He leaves, as he now
tells the simple girl, by the mail at one o'clock next
morning. May he not come under her window ? May
he not talk to her from the Avonmore garden at eleven
that night, when all in the house will have gone to
rest ?

Impossible," cries Helene. " If it were in the day ;
but imagine such a thing at night. How can you dare
to ask me to do such an outrageous thing?"

Shall I not be perhaps eighteen feet beneath you.
What harm can come of a conversation carried on with
so much space betwixt us ?"

I cannot, I dare not," returned the girl in accents
that trembled from the agitation of her spirits.

Can you not come out on to the leads " (thus he
called the leaded roof of the orangery) ? " Have you

never been out there of a moonlight night ? Why, if
any one saw you this burning summer weather, they
would only suppose you came to get a little air."

Oh, don't come!" murmured Helene; "let us part
here. I have done wrong enough already ; do not urge
me to another act of impropriety."

"I shall come, I shall be there," now exclaimed
Daubigny in loud and impassioned accents. " I shall
be before the orangery at eleven as the out door clock
strikes. I will not go at all, for I care not what
becomes of me if you are unkind; I will not go to
London at all if you are cruel enough to deny me this
simple request."

Helene's tears were falling now. We are sorry to be
obliged to tell that as Daubigny 's wicked lips kissed
those tears away, the girl murmured out a sweet, a sad
assent. She promised to come forth from her bedroom
window and greet him as he stood below.

As our reader may imagine, Helene, burdened by a
consciousness of her own duplicity, kept as much out
of Sir Charles's way as she could without exciting his
suspicions. One trifle,  was it a trifle ? yes, it was a
trifle in comparison to the stolen interview she had just
had with Daubigny, in comparison to that last, that
hazardous farewell, yet amid the shadows of night to
be enacted. So we proceed to say that one trifle discomposed
our heroine. On returning from her stealthy
walk, as she stood before the toilet mirror, she saw
that the locket she had worn, ribbon and all, had
disappeared from her neck. At another time such a
loss had been vexatious enough, but to-day it was,
or it might become a graver affair. If the locket had
fallen off in any spot near the river, if it should be
found in such a situation, and should be brought by
the finder either to Mrs. Bird or to Sir Charles, it would
give a clew to her movements which might prove
cruelly embarrassing.

When, therefore, the girl had rested herself, when
she had partaken of some strawberries and wine and
water at luncheon-time, she sought and found an
opportunity of strolling back again into the same wild

VOL. I. N

part of the Avonmore gardens that she had so lately
traversed, in the hope of picking up on her way the lost
locket. Her search, however, was of no avail, and
bringing in a handful of rosebuds, that gave her
now a heartache even to gaze upon, so changed washer
every feeling, so changed seemed every circumstance
in relation to herself, bringing them in as
an excuse for her stroll, she stood arranging them
mechanically, as it were, scarce able to restrain her
sighs and her tears as one by one she placed them in
the flower vase.

To appear composed, however, the girl knew was
absolutely necessary in order to insure the certainty of
that last adieu she had promised Daubigny, and successfully
she struggled to conceal the depression and
disturbance of her mind. Truth for the moment was
cast aside, the voice of conscience she would not hear.
This day she had abandoned herself to a passion that
had no foundation in reason, for which her reason
could have given no justification.

The girl had read of love. It was time, according
to the theory laid down in play and romance,
that she should have a lover. Accident had thrown
one in her way, and for no better reason was this
rebellion in her soul against all that hitherto she had
held to be estimable and right. Dissimulation she had
never practised before ; falsehoods, which her lips till
now had never uttered, were this day promulgated,
enacted, pronounced, almost without compunction.

It had been, as we have described, a lovely summer
morning, calm and still, with scarce a cloud to dim the

sky, but as the day advanced the weather slightly
changed. Towards evening the little wind there was
was south or south-west, while the sky now wore a
dark and cloudy look, now-was radiant with a gleam of
holders sunshine. These intervals of sunshine were
marked by a heat almost tropic in its intensity. Sir
Charles, ever anxiously watching over his protege, had
noticed her want of appetite at luncheon-time ; she who,
at one o'clock, could usually eat a little meat, some
cake or some tart, this day, at this time, could partake
but of strawberries aud wine and water. The fact was,
that under such pressure of excitement, under such a
burden of new-born simulation, Helene's appetite had
wholly failed. At dinner-time Sir Charles remarked
with still greater uneasiness, that of the various good
things apportioned to her she so slightly partook, that
her plate was carried off by Thomas again and again
with scarcely diminished freight. At length he could
refrain no longer ; his anxious looks were accompanied
by anxious words. Falsehood had become essential
to Helene now ; she must use it as a veil to hide the
soul's heavy burden. With all the appearance of
simplicity she could evoke, she declared, in answer to
the anxious gaze fixed upon her, " that the heat was so
oppressive, she wondered any one could eat a dinner.
She felt certain there was thunder in the air, that a
storm was coming; she felt quite overcome." But
although the girl thus protested, our poor baronet was
not satisfied ; a doubt, a dread, a sad foreboding
weighed heavily on his heart. Had not Tresham's
youth, his beauty, his artifice prevailed? Had he

not intervened betwixt himself and his one and only
earthly treasure ? When Thomas had left the room,
as the twain still sat at the dinner-table, its polished
surface now bearing but flowers and fruit, as the twain
yet sat together over the luxurious dessert that neither
touched, the girl looked up, and encountering her patron's
fine but melancholy eyes fixed full upon her, searching,
as it were, for the truth, she could not help glowing
with consciousness, glowing with a sense of her own
duplicity, but still she advanced in guile.

You had a headache last night," she said, forcing
a smile ; " I have one to day."

He answered nothing. He was crowinG; incredulous ;
his faith was shaken ; a presentiment of coming evil
cast its shadow on his spirit. He turned his eyes
away. He ceased to gaze upon her, and now she might
steal a glance at him. Oh ! at that instant she felt
half inclined to cast herself down on the ground at his
feet, and confess how far she had deluded him already.
She felt almost as though she must beseech him to
save her from herself. If Helene had known more of
his hidden feelings, if she had known more of the
intensity of his attachment, if she had known more of
the sinner's nature for whom she was about to make
such a sacrifice, she might ; but, alas ! her eyes were
sealed. Presently, according to her usual custom after
dinner, she arose to leave the room. Sir Charles, who
invariably exercised towards his proudie as much courtesy
as tenderness, left his seat also, held open the
door. As she approached closely to where he stood,
once more he raised his eyes as though he would have

encountered hers. His lips almost spoke ; he had
evidently a desire to arrest her attention ; he was
about to speak. But so great was the girl's nervous
dread, or so embarrassed she felt, that, affecting not to
notice his peculiar manner, she went unheeding on her
way. How many false stitches has Helene woven
this hapless day in the woof of her destiny !

The girl, as we have seen, was gone. Sir Charles
remained in the dining-room, lost in thought, distrait,
and gloomy. As thus he sat, Mrs. Bird, tapping at
the door, asked if she might come in. Very unwelcome
was her visit to the master. No doubt, thinks he, she
comes about some household nuisance. But Mrs. Bird's
mission was of far graver import than he had apprehended.
" I hope, sir," began the old dame, " I hope,
sir, you will not think me officious, but, indeed, sir, I
cannot feel easy to be silent. I am very uncomfortable
about Miss Graham."

What is it?" eagerly, almost stricken with presentiment
of evil, he asked.

Last night, sir, after leaving your room with the
little tray in my hands, I thought I could hear someone
walking very stealthily like along the corridor upstairs.
I stood still and listened. I was certain I
could hear footsteps. I waited, and presently I saw
the figure of a man move along. I saw this person goto
Miss Helene's door."

"Great God !" exclaimed Sir Charles, becoming ashy
pale.

Do not be planned, sir, there is nothing bad,
nothing worse."

Worse ! worse ! but one thing could be worse,"
gasped rather than spoke the master. " Go on."

The person tapped cautiously. In a minute or so
the door was opened, opened a very little way."

He went in ?" cried Sir Charles.

No, sir, he did not go in," said Mrs. Bird ; " but I
could see that he gave Miss Helene a letter."

Yes," exclaimed the elder Daubigny in anguish,
in bitterness of spirit. {: She is his, wholly his. I felt
that it would be so."

He went away," continued Mrs. Bird, " almost
directly. He went the way I saw him come. But T
thought, sir, it was my duty to warn you, sir, of the
sort of intimacy there is betwixt  " Mrs. Bird paused.

"Are you not certain who it was?" almost fiercely
demanded the master.

Yes, sir. I believe I could not mistake. It was
Mr. Tresham."

Scarce had the word Tresham escaped Mrs. Bird's
lips when Tummas entered without his customary
ceremony, or rather we should say with an unusual excitement
and hurry in his manner. " If you please,
sir," he says, " there 's something the matter as requires
your investigation immediate, sir ; a young fellow 's been
a-found trespassing'  a-fishing', sir."

What's that to me ?" inquires the tortured master
in tones so strange that the footman started.

"I beg pardon, sir, but there's something' more
serious. As head-keeper seized on the lad, there

fell from his pocket a jewel, sir, a lady's locket of
great value."

Am I to be bothered by having all the thieves in
the neighbourhood brought before me ? Tell the keeper
to take him before some other magistrate."

Beg pardon, sir, but there 's something' very strange,
keeper says, about it ; the young chap declares he can't
stole it, and keeps a-saying', ' Take me afore young
Mr. Daubigny, and he'll make it all right'"

At these words Sir Charles's mood suddenly changed.

Where was the fellow found, and when ?" he asked.

He was asleep among the rushes by the river, sir,
when keeper twigged him, this very afternoon."

Mrs. Bird," cries Sir Charles, " go bid the keeper
send me the locket by you."

How feeble are mere words to describe Charles Daubigny's
sensations in the interval betwixt Mrs. Bird's
departure and her return. He seemed in his soul
already to know that more determined evidence would
presently appear of the girl's duplicity and worthlessness.
To say that he shuddered with apprehension is
not too strong a term. But if he were thus agitated
during this interval of suspense, to what greater anguish
was he condemned when Mrs. Bird, re-appearing, placed
in his hand the locket. It was, indeed, almost to him
as an apparition, as a visitant from the other world.
He had given it to Helene Vane when he foolishly believed
himself to be beloved by her. She, careless and
unscrupulous, had never returned the love gift ; and
now he knew, alas ! but too well, that her daughter had
worn it, had dropped it. Yes ; ere greater evidence

was before him, lie felt that it would prove but another
link in the chain that should prison him evermore in
hopeless misery.

In an instant, all his loath ness to see the culprit was
gone. He bade Mrs. Bird go back and tell the keeper
to bring the lad instantly before him.

And now presently appears poor Archie, conducted
by the keeper, who also exercises the duties of a
constable.

Sir," says the keeper, addressing our master, " sir, I
can't make nothing' out of the lad. That I caught him
a-trespassin', that he 's been a-fishing's clear as day ; but
he declares he never stole the jewel, and that if he
could but see our young teddy or Mr. Tresham, it 'ud
be proved."

Sir Charles now addresses the keeper. Ghastly pale
he is, but stern and resolved his manner. " You can
leave the room ; you can leave me alone with this young
fellow. I wish to investigate the affair my own way.
Mrs. Bird, I will send for you presently."

"You'd a-better let me stay, sir," whispered the
keeper to Sir Charles. " He 's terrible strong ; and if
you have any words with him  "

Leave me," returned the master, and reluctantly
enough (for their curiosity ran high) retired Mrs. Bird,
head-keeper, and Tummas,  Tummas, who, unseen, had
yet been listening.

And now Archie and Sir Charles Daubigny are left
together in the dining-room, gazing in doubt, in dread,
in perplexity on each other. How sad, how strange a
contrast ! The refined and delicate, and now ghastly

pale countenance of the one,  ghastly pale, yet full of
intense interest ; the leather-brown, the mud-bespattered
features of the other, yet withal a native and
unquenchable beauty gleaming out of the deep blue
eyes. Poor, wretched Archie ! In the scuffle he had had
with the constable his old coat had been rent, his handkerchief
torn from his neck. No one could be in more
evil plight. And he stood before a man the personification
of refinement, attired, too, in his evening dress.

We are alone," were the first words Sir Charles addressed
to the culprit, " and I give you," he continued,
the word of a gentleman, that whatever you would
have spoken to my nephew is as safe with me."

"You are not Mr. Tresham," answered the lad, nothing
daunted by the presence of the fine gentleman before
whom he stood. " I have repeatedly told the keeper he
is the person I wish to see."

I am his uncle."

I know it, sir ; but there 's a deal of difference."

"There ought not to be. And are you aware that
my nephew is not here ?"

He was here this morning," simply exclaimed the
lad.

You saw him. You have seen him then this
morning here?"

Yes, on the river."

Ah ! what sharper pain thrills through the master's
soul at every word the poor lad utters ! Hoarse was
the voice that questioned now.

I demand to know, I insist on knowing, how you
came with this," holding up the locket. " Hear me.

I am more deeply interested in your silence on the
subject than you may imagine. Tell me honestly the
truth ; but mention nothing  nothing to any other
person. I ask you not as an enemy, but as a friend.
If I can, I will not fail to help you."

Ah, sir, there 's a something sneaking' in my telling.
I 'm not a-doing as I 'd be done by."

Do I not say your information shall be safe, safer
with me than with yourself."

Archie still hung back. The required information
did not seem to be forthcoming. A deeper cloud, a
frown, the evidence of anger hard to be repressed, is
gathering on the master's brow as he contemplates the
sinewy form, the undaunted and determined countenance
of the lad who stands before him.

You are perhaps expecting," continued Sir Charles,
"that you may gain something by delay. You are
perhaps expecting that the door may open, and that
my nephew may appear. But this will not be the
case. He and I are no longer on terms of familiarity.
He will not venture to intrude unbidden. Moreover,
were he to see you, were he here now, he would not
hesitate to sacrifice you to his convenience. If a
witness were present when you told your tale, and it
happened to be an inconvenient one to himself, he
would simply deny the whole, and denounce you as a
lying young scoundrel."

For the first time since the keeper had laid hands
upon him, Archie's features w r ere lit up by a sparkle
of mirth. He could not repress a smile as now he
answered : 

May be, your honour, you are right enow there. I
have, indeed, heard say that Mr. Tresham's something
crooked in his dealings ; and, sir," added Archie, the
wicked smile vanishing, " I ha' heard much, very much
of your honour, of your goodness, of your kindness to
the pair folk about." Then, after an instant's silence,
he added, " If I should tell ye what ye desire of me,
for aught I know, it may mak a deal of mischief. I
came by what I could tell your honour not in a right
way. I was a-lyin' hidden, and I ha' no business to
know what I know. Can ye reconcile my splitting' to the
honour o' a man ? Would you, sir, at the bidding of a
king, do a dirty deed ? No, sir, I ken not ; and why
sud I, at the bidden' of yer honour, who 's greater, indeed,
than mony a lord, tell what I sud never 'a know'd?"

"There is a limit to patience, to endurance, to
mercy," retorted Charles Daubigny, haughtily and
coldly. " Hear me, young man, for I shall use no
further persuasion. Since you will give me no satisfactory
account of the whole affair, I must indeed
recall our constable. I must regard you as a suspicious
character. I must hand you over to the keeper's tender
mercies. You will leave this room only in his custody."

Sir," cried the stranger lad, " I stand before ye
but as an outcast. I ha' never a friend to speak forme.
But will ye bring this utter ruin on me ? Oh,
sir, I ha' better blue in my veins than seems possible
to ye. My grandsire fell from his rightful' place.
Won't ye show me some compassion ? Must I suffer
as a thief without proven guilt ?"

I give you your choice. Trust wholly to me. Tell

me the truth. You will save yourself from disgrace,
and, perhaps," added Sir Charles, with a voice that
scarce was steady, " perhaps be the means of saving the
hapless child to whom this (holding up the locket)  to
whom this belongs."

Archie gazed a moment sadly, irresolutely, on Sir
Charles, then in tones almost as agitated as the master's,
he said, " You, sir, ask a confidence from me. May I
first venture to ask a question of your honour ? Tell
me, do you indeed fear harm for the young teddy ?
Do you believe that if I minna tell harm might light
upon her ?"

Sir Charles bowed his head.

You ha' said, pardon my freedom, you ha' said
that Mr. Tresham has no scruple. You doubt  "

I have too much reason."

You doubt his purpose in persuading the young
teddy to see him secretly."

What a fresh torture had the poor lad unwittingly
inflicted !

"Hear me," murmured the master, "he seeks but
her ruin. I am convinced of it."

What an anguish for our master thus to condescend !
The colour covered even his previously ash pale brow
as he uttered his last words ; but they had an instantaneous
effect.

"Then, God ha' mercy if I'm wrong; but I do feel
free to tell yer honour word for word as I ha' heard 'em
speak."

Hitherto we have seen Sir Charles gentle, subdued,

and patient, but now suddenly had been revealed to
him such a degree of duplicity, where he had hoped
and believed to have found nothing but simplicity and
truth, that he could endure no more. He was alone,
and the excitement and anguish of his mind caused
him for the next half hour hastily, hurriedly to
pace the dining-room. In this brief interval of
reverie, of solitude, broke upon him a light he fain
had instantly extinguished, a truth he hitherto had
managed to conceal even from himself. Every instant
now his rage, his jealousy, was augmenting ; and
finally, he was compelled to acknowledge his own
frailty.

Yes, he, too, was the girl's lover, and in his nephew
he could behold but a successful rival who had succeeded
in tearing from him the one treasure of his
soul. He would rather see the girl lying dead before
him than that Tresham should ever embrace her more.
Where, will my reader ask, has flown this Christian's
Christianity ? We answer, Who may not fall ?

Nothing was in his mind but the girl's guile and
falsehood ; nothing seemed left to him but to prove
her want of rectitude, to condemn and to punish.

He would practise towards her a reserve, a simulation
equal to her own ; he would witness with his own
eyes the arranged nocturnal interview, and having
witnessed it, he would cast her from him for ever ; he
would teach himself to despise the thing he had loved
too well.

How long Charles Daubigny would have continued
thus darkly, fiercely, brooding over the wrong his

nephew had done him we know not, but his reverie
was abruptly terminated. Tummas, the unfortunate
Tummas, intruded his person once more upon our poor
master's notice.

If you please, sir, tea has been in some time, sir.
Miss Graham has asked me to tell you, sir."

Somewhat hurriedly Sir Charles answered, " Tell
Miss Graham I will come in a few minutes ; go to herat
once, say that I have been busy, engaged."

The footman returned to Helene with his master's
message, and as soon as he was out of sight the
habitual invalid, with all the rapidity of health and
youth, flew up-stairs. In an instant he was abstracting
the key from the door of the chamber hung with
chamois. He looked to see if there was any other
way of fastening the door, and congratulated himself
on finding none.

And how could he appear before the girl at the tea-table
agitated, distressed as he was ? He walked along
the corridor to his own room, he examined his pale face
in the toilet glass, he set his hair in order, but his
heart beat now with suffocating violence, and he felt
that he must have some stimulant, something to support
his weakness, otherwise his looks, his manner,
would betray the suffering indignation bade him for
the present hide. He returned to the dining-room ; no
one was there. He seized on the brandy in the sideboard,
he poured out a whole glass and drank it down.
Ere long he was so far recovered, he thought he might
venture to face the hapless girl.

"Something has been the matter, has there not?"

she asked, as Sir Charles entered the room, where
wearily she was sitting by the tea things.

"Yes, I have been called upon, in my capacity of
magistrate, to investigate a very unpleasant affair."

"Will you tell me about it?" inquired Helene,
affecting an interest she did not feel, and glad of anything
to talk of, so foreign, as she thought, to her own
affair.

No, it will not do exactly to relate to you,'"'
answered Sir Charles in a tone and manner half playful
and full of meaning.

Oh, if it is anything improper," cried the young
girl, " of course I do not want to be told."

Well, it is very improper."

Won't you have your tea ?" she continued, pushing
a cup towards her Saint, and it did strike her as somewhat
strange, that eager as her companion usually was
for his tea, this evening he seemed to be scarce
conscious that it was long past his usual time.

Yes, of course," he answered, taking the proffered
cup ; but his manner, despite his utmost efforts, was
vague and strange. He felt certain that it must be so,
and to excuse any appearance of distrait, he added,
I shall have to examine into this unpleasant business
more closely ; I shall have to think it over, to see if I
thoroughly comprehend. If I do not return to wish
you goodnight, you will know the occasion, the reason
of my absence."

Why should it worry you so ?" asked Helene,
wholly unsuspicious of the truth. " Is it a murder ?
You can tell me that at least."

It is not a murder, but an accusation of theft,"

How can that be improper ?" cried the girl.

Love," answered he, " the frailty, the falsehood of
a woman mingles strangely in the matter. I am going
now to ponder over the evidence. Good-night, shall I
say ? It is past nine, at ten you go to bed."

Yes, but as you will be no longer here, I shall goto
my room at once. I shall sit quietly by the open
window ; the cool evening air will do my headache
good."

He held out his hand in silence, he tried to seem
natural, and in the shadowy light of the summer eve,
for the tall waxen candles stood unlighted yet, the
girl did not observe the ashy paleness of her patron's
cheek.

vol. 1.

We have once before compared the attachment Charles
Danbigny felt for Helene to that that George Selwyn
felt for his Mie Mie. Those who have read Selwyn's
letters will well remember the misery, the torment
Selwyn endured when about to be separated from the
child.  the tenderness, the constancy of his love after
her departure.

Those of my readers who have been bold enough to
dive into the Confessions of Eousseau, will be able to
comprehend me, when I say that now our poor master
had had added to his previous burdensome attachment,
love of another character,  such a love as the great
philosopher has recorded that he himself felt for his
Sophia.

Eousseau was forty when he was stricken, as it were,
by a passion, at once, as he tells us, so exalted, so
intense, so holy, so sweet, that all that he had deemed
to be love before was blotted from his memory by this
later, this soul absorbing influence.

Eousseau had tried to repress, to conceal his torment.
Our master, astounded at his own frailty, determined,
at whatever cost, to keep it a secret in his own aching
heart.

But let us proceed with our story. Regardless of
the delicacy of his health, regardless of taking cold, at
ten o'clock this hapless night Charles Daubigny goes
forth and ensconced himself in a shady nook amid the
trees upon the lawn, whence, unseen himself, he may
yet behold the trysting of the lovers.

How full of anguish is his soul ; how overwhelmed
is he with mingled anger and with sorrow !  He could
not even now, as heretofore, beseech Heaven to grant
him peace and resignation ; he feels that he is too
wroth, too frail to dare to lift his eyes to the starry
canopy stretching in glory above him.

How long, how almost interminable seemed the hour
that thus in suspense he waited ! How dirge-like
sounded to him now, as it floated by, the chime of the
old monastic clock,  that clock, that presently as it
strikes, shall seem to sign his death-warrant ! Ah !
now it chimes again, now it strikes eleven ; and, even
as it strikes, he hears a rustling amid the evergreens.
Oh ! terrible moment, worse than death, bringing with
it the death of hope, awaking, confirming all suspicion.

Trembling with jealous fury, our poor master sees
his nephew, at least he sees a dark figure emerge from
the shrubbery and proceed towards the house. Nearer,
nearer steals this dark figure, until it reaches the
gravel walk before the orangery. He hears a shrill
low whistle, and he sees the girl, whose window had
purposely been left open. Yes, he sees the girl appear,
her white dress floating round her ; yes, he cannot be
deceived. He sees his Helene standing on the leaden
roof above, his nephew on the gravel walk below.

Sir Charles, screened by the leaves, by the tangled
ivy foliage around him, from the sight of either culprit,
is yet near enough to the orangery to overhear the
greater part of the following dialogue : 

"La nuit est sufficient obscure pour que les
Eusses ne nous voient pas. D'ailleurs, il faut toujours
compter sur sa fortune."

Why do you speak to me in French, in this light
manner ?" asked the girl in sharp and hurried accents ;
mocking me, as it were, when I am ready to die of
fear lest any one should see us."

Can you not recall that ? That is the first piece of
French you ever gave me to read ; thus it is stamped
for ever on my memory. But, Helene, were my neck
under the guillotine, I should still speak what you call
lightly. I could smile, I could jest even in the hour
of death ; and this, dearest, this is my hour of death,
nay, it is worse than merely dying, for there is the
future, the hereafter. When I lose sight of you,
Helene, perdition, hell, will be my portion."

"You will presently forget me," answers the girl.
In the great world to which you belong, another face,
another form, will attract; the loneliness, the pain,
will be for me."

Helene, I shall never change. Whatever you may
hear of me, whatever I may be compelled to do, still
nothing can tear you from my soul. Had I been able,
had there been a chance for me, I could have mended
yet of my evil ways. With you, Helene, by my side,
I had had an interest in myself that I can never feel
without your presence, your approval. Helene," he

continued, " you do not yet know all, you do not know
the worst; you do not know that long before I saw
you I had sold myself to the devil"'

"What can you mean ?" hurriedly asks the girl.

"Yes, as good as that. I was thrown, by my
mother's contrivance, very much in the way of an
orphan gal with thousands a year. I played the fool
with her. I made her an offer. She accepted me, but
her uncle, her guardian, objected to my character or to
my habits. The gal would not give wholly in, and it
was finally arranged that a year should pass in which
we were not once to meet. That year is over. We
have never once met, we have had no correspondence.
I had hoped, I tried to believe that she had forgotten,
that she had been prevailed upon to give me up. But
from a letter I have received, a letter of my mother's,
too horrible, too sickening to read, I strongly suspect I
am booked, hooked, snared,  my days, as it were,
numbered. I assure you I am more than indifferent
to the gal ; I never cared for her in the least. I saw
you, Helene, and for the first time in my life I loved."

You have erred greatly," murmured Helene, with
almost a faltering voice. " You should not have stayed
here."

"I could not go, I was spell-bound. There was a
fascination I could not resist. Cost 111 e what it will, I
can never regret that I came, that you floored me."

Go," said the girl sadly, yet somewhat haughtily,
go now, leave me. Every instant that you stay is
but a treason against her, is but adding to your sin."

I am going ; you know that I must go ; my leave is

up. But, Helene, do not condemn me ; show me some
compassion. This is our last hour, this is my last hour
of life, of love. Let me but touch your hand, let us
not part for ever, part so coldly and so cruelly."

'- It is well," answered the girl, "that our interview can
be only such as it is. I am here, and here you cannot
come ; and I will never, never descend into the garden."

Let me come to you, Helene."

What," cried she, " dare you ask it ? Through my
bedroom ? Go, speak to me no more."

There is another way. Indeed I never dreamt of
coming through your bedroom. Hear me. Will you
listen? In the orangery is a ladder, it is always there.
I can come on to the leads easily by that."

The girl said, " No," but as he pleaded more and more
her no's grew fainter, and Sir Charles at length saw
the sinner enter the orangery door.

Instantly St. Louis quitted his ivied nook. Gliding
noiselessly along, he gained the house unseen. He fled
up-stairs. He was in the ante-room of the chamber
hung with chamois ere Tresham had planted the ladder.
Cautiously our poor master opens the chamber door.
There is no light in the room save that small or rather
subdued light coming from the shaded night-lamp.
He sees the girl on the balcony. There was not a
moment to spare. Advancing stealthily but rapidly
towards her, ere she is aware of his presence, he lays a
burning trembling hand on her arm. " Miss Graham,"
lie says, and he tries to speak in cold and measured
tones, " Miss Graham, I have suffered this scene of
levity and indiscretion to proceed so far, further I

cannot allow it to proceed ; I cannot longer stand by
a passive spectator. As your temporary guardian, in
your father's absence, I feel bound to interfere. To
have my nephew alone with you on this roof, and in
the dark of night, is incompatible with your honour."

It would be impossible for me to describe Helene's
sensations as thus suddenly she felt St. Louis's hard
pressure on her arm, as she heard his formal but indignant
words. Mingled shame, regret, amazement, remorse,
sent a piercing thrill through her heart. Love
for the younger man at this instant seemed extinguished,
seemed to vanish under the sense, the shock, of her
own degradation and the cold displeasure of her patron.

As for Tresham, consternation and rage at being thus
defeated in his object were his first and strongest
emotions. But a minute or two later was added a
sharper pang.

Go, scoundrel !" cried his uncle ; " go as you came,
instantly, or I feel that I shall grow too much exasperated
to carry myself towards you as a gentleman
and a Christian. Henceforth we are strangers. You
have taught this unhappy girl to be false and treacherous
as yourself."

Pale as the moon that at this moment beamed fitfully
upon them were the countenances of the uncle and the
nephew. Hatred had now established itself betwixt
them. The younger man answered nothing. He had
no defence to make. He had no alternative but silently
to depart, since Helene had passively resigned herself
to the commands, the authority of his uncle, who aided
her tottering steps to re-enter the chamber window.

The girl trembled so, she was really unable to stand
without support, and having once gained her room,
sank down half-fainting on the floor. She sank or cast
herself down, close by a great cushioned chair. The
cushion served at once as a resting-place for her head,
and also served to screen her blushing and her tearful
face.

Sir Charles meantime, agitated and incensed to the
last degree, unable to command his temper, paced the
great chamber with hasty strides, bestowing many cruel
and even sarcastic remarks upon his companion. At
length he let fall on her almost bewildered senses the
following amiable declaration : " No time, no penitence,
no circumstance, can undo what has been done. Nothing
can wipe away from my memory this clay's, this night's
indiscretion, treachery, and misconduct." Then suddenly,
as if more and more impassioned, he exclaimed,
as he paused and gazed upon her, " Great God ! if I had
not been providentially, as it were, watching over you,
tomorrow's sun might have risen upon a lost, a fallen
creature."

The girl, who hitherto had listened in silence and
submission to the bitter words dictated by passion, by
jealousy, by disappointment, now started up from her
recumbent attitude disdainful and defiant.

I cannot mistake your meaning," she cried, while
her tears fell fast and thick. " I have read such expressions
in books. You class me with the low, the base,
the sensual."

Nay," cried he, resuming his sarcastic tone, "I have
not said thus much. You may be all that is artless

and unsuspecting. Does the eagle tell the lamb when
and where it will make its deadly swoop? Does the
robber warn the owner when he meditates carrying off
some precious jewel ? Hapless girl, answer me if you
can, Why did he seek to climb your balcony?"

Merely," retorted Helene indignantly, " merely for
the last time to touch my hand."

And he to whom you had granted so much more
in the morning  he who was allowed to sit with his
arm around your waist for a whole hour,  would he
have been content with only such poor token ?"

As Sir Charles uttered these last sentences, the girl
gave a kind of amazed or hysteric cry. " Oh," she
said, "can you have been so mean as to track my
steps ? "

Never 5 retorted he. " Hear me, and tremble at
Heaven's merciful interposition. The supposed culprit
who was brought before me this evening had lain concealed
amid the rushes by the rocks. Do you recognise
this?" continued he, showing her the locket.

The girl once more cast herself down whence she had
arisen, and covered her face with her hands.

"Is not this substantial evidence, eh?" continued
Sir Charles. " Thepoor lad picked it up, Miss Graham,
where you by an unfortunate mischance lost it. It fell
from his pocket in his scuffle with the keeper, who
found him trespassing, found he had been fishing where
he had no right to fish. Happily for yourself, the little
scene you enacted this morning will not spread. Immediately
I saw the locket, I felt but too certain. The
lad, with a feeling of decency and discretion unusual

in people of his class, did not betray you. He would
not tell the keeper. It was only when he was shut in
with me, when he knew of my  my terrible interest,
when he saw how deeply I suffered, that he told me.
Wretched girl, you have been, I repeat it, on the very
brink of a precipice, you have been within an ace of
destruction."

I will not bear this," cried Helene, wildly starting
up ; " harm could only have befallen me by my own
will and act."

I know not that," retorted her angry Saint. " I
know not to what length, to what subtleties the designing
villain might have resorted. You know him
not. A hundred times it has been in my mind to tell
you a sad, sad story, but I thought you too sinless,
too delicate-minded, too holy, to need such warning.
You have proved yourself to be so far beneath my
estimate, that, without apology, I will repeat, relate a
fact which your lover, Miss Graham, treats as a mere
bagatelle.

My sister-in-law wanted a governess. She is not
fond of paying large salaries. She heard of a young
lady, accomplished and elegant, whose father had died
suddenly, and left her with scarce a pittance to exist
upon. The girl craved but a respectable home. She
would give her time, her accomplishments as requital.
My sister-in-law engaged her. My nieces became
sincerely attached to their companion. But she was
too young, too fair. Your lover, Miss Graham, cast his
amorous eyes upon her, and from that moment she
was doomed to destruction. I will not trouble you

with the details of the story. I will not tell you of his
subtlety, his perseverance, the ceaseless pains he took
through many months, nay, for more than a whole year
I think a year and a half  " Sir Charles paused a
moment here, as if doubtful how, in what words, to add
the rest. Again he spoke : " She fell, yes, at length,
a sacrifice to what, I presume, he would call his passion,
and I have been supporting his hapless victim and her
child for a very considerable time."

And dare you, sir," exclaimed Helene, covered with
beautiful confusion, " compare me to this lost, this
fallen creature ? Do you dare to class me with a
designing governess who sought to ensnare her pupils'
brother? Leave me," cried she; "go, never let us
breathe the same air again."

We shall breathe the same air but for a very few
minutes longer. I go, but remember that this girl
you so despise was a better girl than yourself. She
laboured patiently, she bore her hard lot without
repining. He succeeded only by a base, a cruel
stratagem."

"No doubt she said so, but why should you, sir,
defile your lips by repeating such a story ? Why
should you insult me by placing such a disgusting
fact before me ? Go out of my room."

u Wretched girl " cried Sir Charles, " take heed, take
heed ; the proud, the confident are most unsafe. Child,"
he added, with now a faltering voice, "thy mother
never thought to fall ; she would have spurned the
thought ; and has she not descended to the grave in
shame and in dishonour ? She was lovelier, more

refined than yourself. She was of a lineage spotless,
noble, and, alas ! when temptation close beset her."

Go," cried Helene, " instantly. Never let me hear
the sound again of a voice I shall loathe for ever.
Words, words you have uttered to pierce and to destroy,
yes, to blast, to wound incurably."

I obey you," retorted Sir Charles. " I will go
wander in the garden until dawn. I cannot hope forrest.
And for yourself, oh, miserable girl ! what have
you done ?"

Graham was descended from a race of Scotchmen
which had been warlike, haughty, and intractable.
Graham himself, in his earlier days, had been haughty
and intractable. Even now, occasionally, his nature,
despite all effort on his part to suppress it, would
appear.

Helene provoked, Helene detected, Helene deeming
herself in some measure unjustly accused in the scene
we have last narrated, to use a vulgar phrase, proved
herself to be a chip of the old block. Her beautiful
eyes, even through her tears, had flashed forth their
rage. Her stature for the moment had seemed greater
than usual ; her nostrils, the arches of the Gipsy nose,
were dilated.

Sir Charles had seen what it was to provoke a
Graham to the last degree, and when her Saint was
gone, anger, disdain upheld her still. She it was
who now, with hurried steps, paced the great chamber.
Again and again, it is true, she flung herself down and
wept, but her tears were rather tears of anger than of
penitence.

Towards morning, exhausted by her agitation, she
undressed, went to bed, and fell asleep. It was the

waking, the cruel waking from these two or three hours
of feverish slumber, that brought the girl to her senses.
In the confusion of her mind she had forgotten to let
down the heavy window-curtains of chamois, consequently
when she awoke every object in the room was
visible. To look around the great chamber and
remember how she had driven thence one who until
that single hour had shown her such constancy of
affection, such unwonted tenderness, who from the first
had used a courtesy towards her man seldom uses to a
mere child in years, was startling and terrible. Her
own faults, her own duplicity began to rise as accusers,
and groaning, she hid her blushing face in her hands
and wept bitterly. Hope, however, was not extinct.
Sir Charles would not maintain his severity ; he would
be in the house, they would meet, she would submit,
and he would pardon.

But with all this sorrow at her heart the girl could
not attempt to say her prayers ; no, she did not. She
rose and dressed. What should come next ? Would
her Saint's heart melt towards her ? Would he send a
tiny note  a message ? Dared she go to the breakfast-table
unless he first held out the golden sceptre, without
any token of his mercy?"

Thus she debated, when the chamber door opened
and Mrs. Bird put into her hand, not the little hoped-for
note from Sir Charles, but a large-sized letter
from Graham to Sir Charles, which Mrs. Bird said
had come from the post scarce an hour before. " Sir
Charles sends it to you to read, Miss Helene. He
tells me that your papa returns to-night. Sir Charles

has had an early breakfast ; he is obliged, he says, instantly
to leave for London on business of importance."

"He is not actually gone," faintly, tremulously
asked the amazed girl, and, at the first instant, she had
half a mind to fly down to him and beseech a moment's
delay.

"I left him at the hall-door, Miss Helene ; the
carriage was coming round ; he bade me carry the
letter to you. I asked if there was any message. My
master said, ' None,' and turned away."

Helene's room, as we have before described, was at
the side of the great house ; thus she had heard no
sound of the carriage approaching in the front.

"None!" repeated the stricken girl, and turned
away. " Can he be really going to leave me in this
heartless manner? Can he be so cruel?" and now,
instead of thinking of rushing down to him, as a
minute before she had thought of doing, pride, pique,
irresolution intervened, and the opportunity, the possibility
of reconciliation was lost.

For Mrs. Bird, who had gone to satisfy her own eyes,
presently returned, saying, " Miss Helene, my master
has gone. I saw the carriage drive from the hall-door."

On hearing these words the hapless girl, who had
gone out into the corridor, fled back into the great
chamber, and threw herself on to the bed. A desolation
was in her soul, a chill ran through her young veins.
She murmured crazily again and again, sometimes in
French, sometimes in English, " Great God ! what have
I done ? He was my Heaven,  all Heaven. Eve
driven out of Eden was not more wretched than I.

Oh, like her, I shall find but sorrow now, but briers
and but thorns."

She rose from the bed and sought to lock the door,
that she might be secure from intrusion, but the key
was gone, and presently Mrs. Bird came gazing upon
her, asking if she were poorly, if she would not have
breakfast, if there had been any difference between the
master and herself.

But Helene answered nothing. Then Mrs. Bird
brought a cup of tea, and the tormented girl harshly
bade her go. But instead of going Mrs. Bird persevered
in her efforts. "Have you read your papa's letter?"
she asked. This question had a wonderful effect,
especially as the old dame added, " He will be here,
Sir Charles said, before night."

How fast fell Helene's tears anew ! they fell faster
and faster as she thought of the loving heart that was
longing to press her to it, as she thought of the rigorous
self-command she must summon, she must exercise to
keep her George in ignorance of her misery, in ignorance
of its cause.

He must never know," she murmured, " never. I
could not be so cruel as to wound his broken heart
anew. Oh, I will strive, I will try to bear all everything
for his sake."

That meeting might have made a picture of rare
beauty,  Graham, so noble-looking, so handsome, embracing
the heart stricken girl. Stricken she washer
spirit bowed beneath a weight of self-reproach, her
heart beating tremulously, unsteadily, under such
variety of excitement. The bloom on her cheek was
subdued. The lips, usually rosy-red, were paler, her
hands were chill. She was waiting beneath one of
the fine old cedars at Avonmore to welcome him.
Hastily he quitted the dog-cart that had been sent to
meet him. "Without giving himself time to examine
his child, his arms were around her, his lips pressed
to her forehead. But this first embrace over, he gazed
upon her with anxiety and surprise.

You are not well, Helene ?"

J' Not quite," she answered, casting her loving arms
round him, and resting her head upon his shoulder;
but I shall be now, for you are here."

"And have you been ill and never told me?"

No. I have been well, quite well. It is nothing,"
she said, and together they entered the house.

Graham had had a long fast. He was hungry ; he
wanted his dinner. Hastily he went to the room Mrs.

vol. I. p

Bird had apportioned him, set himself in order, and
came to the dinner-table.

And so Sir Charles left this morning," he said ;
"not, however, as Mrs. Bird tells me, till he knew I
should be here to-night. Some business, she says,
called him away."

Yes," answered the culprit, thankful that her
father was too much engaged with his fish and its
sauce to notice the blush she felt heightening her
colour.

Quickly she managed to change the subject of
discourse.

How well, papa, you are looking ! It does me good
to see you. It was that nice warm climate."

Not exactly that," answered Graham, " but I have
had a run of good luck, or, as your Saint, Helene, would
say, a series of Heaven-sent blessings. One trouble
that used to haunt me incessantly is removed. I used
to think if I were to die you would be left portionless.
My aunt, I believe, will do all, more than I could
expect."

And she is cured," said Helene, with a smile,
and going to live?"

Not cured ; but she may survive, certainly, sometime."


And how do you know, dearest," murmured the
girl, as she rose from her seat and filled his tumbler
again with beer, for they had no Tummas to wait upon
them (he was gone off with his master), "how do
you know this grand old aunt may not change her
mind ?"

She will not change her mind."

Well," continued Helene, " this is one thing, one
piece of good luck ; but what else has come to pass ?"

w Something." answered Graham ; " I have stumbled
upon, almost in a miraculous manner, something that
I had almost ceased to think of."

Let me hear," said the girl, her heart aching so,
she could feel no interest in whatever it might be.

You know," continued he, " how you have seen me
poring over the Graham pedigree. You know there
was a date wanting  proof, in fact, of a certain John
Graham's marriage."

"Yes," said Helene.

"Well, I have gained clearer, I may say positive
evidence ; the doubt is removed."

Oh, indeed ! I do congratulate you," cried Helene,
for I know this was a grievance. Shall I call you
my Lord ? " asked she playfully, for the light of gladness
beaming in her father's eyes for the moment
glossed over her own sadness.

"Some day, Helene, perhaps."

And how was it, papa, that you never mentioned in
your letters either of these two lucky accidents ?"

Would it have been very dignified, or very usual,
or very decent, to have paraded the sort of will my
aunt intends making ? And as to the other affair,
Charles Daubigny is the last man in the world I
should mention it to. He used to be very sarcastic
on the subject."

I remember," said Helene, but she did not proceed.
She was afraid her remembrance might awaken some

of the old unpleasant feeling between her father and
her Saint.

Why do you stop ? Why do you not tell me ?
Something you remember Charles has said. Come,
I can listen even with a smile to whatever it maybe,
I am so confident I can only be amused at his
criticisms."

Well, then, if you promise to be amused I will
tell you. It was the evening I first met Sir Charles.
When we were alone in the saloon of the steamer he
did allude to the subject. He said you had always
been a proud man, and gave as one instance your
claiming a title, to which he declared you had no better
right than himself."

"Excellent !" cried George, a glow of colour heightening
for an instant his complexion, an expression half
mirthful, half bitter, curling his finely-chiselled lips.
If God does not hurry me out of the world, I will
prove the contrary to him yet."

You are angry a little, after all," cried Helene.

Not in the least. Charles is quite unable to comprehend
my feeling. I have a great deal of feeling on
the subject. I hate to be baffled, defeated as I have
been. I hate to be the jest of the world. Success in
this case, though I lived but a month after, nay, a
week, yes, though I died the day after, success would
be ample reward."

You do, dear, dear papa, think a great deal of it.
Ought you to be so excited?" murmured Helene,
and quitting her seat, she cast her loving arms
around him.

He sighed. At that moment a thrill of anguish
shot through his heart. The lovely girl who thus
hung over him would be debarred, even though
success crowned his future efforts. She could never
be Lady Helene.

We left Tresham Daubigny pale with rage and
mortification descending the ladder he had but a few
minutes before planted against Helene's balcony.
However much nature and passion urged him to linger
near and make yet another attempt secretly to see the
girl, he had not the power of following his inclination ;
his leave would presently expire, the longer leave he
had asked for, his Colonel had peremptorily refused to
grant. Moreover, a week had passed since his mother
had written commanding him immediately to return.
To defy his Colonel was impossible ; to further irritate
his imperious mother was a feat too hazardous even for
his audacity.

He must go  go by the mail when it passed near
Avonmore at one o'clock. And he went. He was not
conscious of it, but his uncle had some one waiting,
watching, to see that his precious heir-expectant really
did mount the box seat and depart.

We will not trouble our reader with Tresham's
ideas or sensations as he was whirled rapidly onwards ;
we will only say that, audacious, heartless as he was,
he yet, to the surprise of the jovial old coachman, with
whom, during his stay at Avonmore, he had had some
dealings and much discourse,  we will only say, to
the surprise of the coachman, he was silent, he was

absent. His hands were idle as his tongue ; he never
touched the reins.

Leaving the mail, this almost forgotten vehicle of
other days, its burly driver, its smart little guard, we
will go straight to Augusta's boudoir, and hear what
passes there when her son presents himself.

What can have induced you, Tresham," exclaimed
the lady, " what can have induced you to be so utterly
indifferent ? Pray, what excuse have you to offer ? Did
I not say in my letter that the old uncle had given in,
that the way was smooth, that you had but to urge
your claim V*

I never read your letter further than the first line
or two."

"I am very much obliged to you for your candour ;
and will you, with equal frankness, be so good as to
explain why?"

The subject disgusted me ; besides," he added with
a strange manner, a compound of sarcasm and sadness,
I had not completed the work you sent me to do."

You talk in riddles. What work did I send you todo?"


Did j'ou not bid me go watch my uncle and the
gal ? Did you not bid me place discord between them ?
Well, you dare not deny your own instructions, and I
only executed them to the letter the last moment of
my stay at Avonmore. Mother, you have your way ;
he told me I had made her false and treacherous as
myself; he has quarrelled with her as well as with me."

Good heavens, Tresham !" cried Augusta. "What
new misfortune is this ? Quarrelled with you openly ?

Yes, mother."

You are the most luckless, the most unfortunate
person woman ever had for a son."

I quite agree with you," answered he with the
utmost sangfroid.

"Just when I wanted him to help me to arrange
about your marriage, when I cannot see my way clear
unless he does."

What a mercy, mother, if I have thrown an obstacle
in the way ! Do you think I want the little waddling,
twaddling goose ?"

Can you not be serious for a moment, when there
is, as it were, a matter of life and death hanging over
you ?"

"Do you want me to be serious ? Do you want the
truth ? Hear it then. I loathe your little twaddling
heiress, and I do not believe that I can attempt to
chain myself up to her."

Are you gone mad, Tresham, to talk in this wild
way ? something has happened. Great God, child,
what is it ? I have had my suspicions. You have not
entangled yourself with the girl at Avonmore ?"

I have not entangled myself with the girl at
Avonmore," repeated Tresham slowly, sadly, distinctly.


You have not." Augusta paused ; she dared not
speak her thought. " This quarrel with your uncle,
Tresham, tell me the worst."

I have not ruined her, if you mean that, but I
believe my uncle would tell you that I was bent upon
her ruin, which on my soul is not true."

11 Then you have been making love to her?"

Of course I have. Was not that the very way to
cure the old fool if he had a weakness for her ? You
ought to thank me for having achieved a victory for
you, though, by God, it has cost me dearly."

"Indeed it has, if you have quarrelled with
him."

Mother," said the young man, suddenly turning
towards Augusta with a strange sad smile on his lips,
his eyes not meeting hers, but cast down, " mother, it
has cost me more than that."

You do not mean me to understand that you are
in love with such an insignificant little thing ? However,"
added the mother, with something betwixt a
sneer and a laugh, " if you do, 1 am not the least
uneasy ; your passion will not outlive the month."

It will outlive my life," he murmured, sinking
down into a chair. " For God's sake, mother, get me out
of this horrible affair that you have planned."

What ? What ? Yes, that you may marry a bailiff's
daughter."

No," he continued, his eyes still cast down ; " no,
I shall never see her perhaps again, but I loathe the
idea of marrying the other gal ; I don't think I can get
through with it."

Hastily, as her son uttered the last words, Augusta
quitted the room. Returning almost instantly, she
cast down on a little table that stood before him a
heap of unpaid and lengthy bills.

You have quarrelled with your uncle ; you will not
accept a fortune offered to you ? Why have you been

so abominably reckless ? Who is to settle these ? Where
is the money to come from ? "

With a hand that actually trembled, Tresham
turns over these lengthy accounts. " How came yon
with them ?" he asked.

The people finding you were absent, have begun to
dun one. It is not to be borne, Tresham. You must
marry her ; there is no alternative."

Let me sell out and go abroad. T would rather
wander in the backwoods of America free than live a
life of splendid slavery. Mother, do not urge me."

I shall not cease to urge you," cried Augusta,
laughing ; " and as you have such a loving disposition,
you can amuse yourself with each lady by turns, only
secure the wife."

Upon my soul, you are very clever, and you seem
disposed to be very facetious, but I am not in a jesting
humour."

Not at this particular minute, but how long will
your melancholy hold ? I have promised the poor
little thing that you shall meet her this evening at
Mrs. Howard's ball."

"And why did you make this engagement for me ?
To-night, too ; I absolutely cannot see her to-night."

Oh yes, you can. I shall accompany you."

And do all the courting ? 'No, by God, I cannot
go. It 's no use trying to drive me."

"Tresham," cried Augusta, her beautiful eyes flashing
forth their rage, " Tresham, I will not be made a
fool of for the sake of a little country wench whom
you have chosen to take up with. I have had my

suspicions, and in consequence I have considered, I
have thought the matter over before your arrival.
Mine is no hasty determination ; you were so dilatory,
so neglectful, I have had a whole week for consideration.
Go with me to-night, claim the good fortune
that awaits you ; I shall expect it, I shall even dress
before dinner, ready to accompany you. But refuse,
and I give you notice of my intentions, of my unalterable
determination. Yes, in the event of your turning
your back on that, which is indeed a position, a future
you by no means deserve, and which comes to the
rescue almost as a miracle, no tenderness, no dread of
what the world will say shall arrest me in my course.
To-morrow I will write to the most urgent of your
tradespeople, your creditors. I will tell them that myself
and your uncle have already done so much to assist
you, that we decline taking further cognisance of your
debts, that they may follow any course they choose.
You know me well. You know that I never say a
thing to you in private thus that I do not mean. Our
private interviews have been always confidential. You
have known me year after year enduring as woman
never yet endured. What have you not done that is
heartless and disgraceful? Did I not hush up that
terrible affair of the poor little governess ? Who but
yourself could have thought of ruining your own sisters'
governess ? Yet was it not / who kept it from the world ?
I who broke the horrible truth to your uncle ? Did I
not get him to bestow a pittance on the unfortunate girl,
on the child  your child ? Have I not again and again
had interviews with lawyers, with beggarly lawyers'

clerks even, on your account ? Have I not flattered,
told falsehoods, to serve you ? Had I not, years ago,
to send away my maid, whose loss I have never been
able satisfactorily to supply ? Xo, no ; I will have no
more forbearance. Take what fortune in her bounty
sends, or go and be a. jockey, a prize-fighter, a billiard-marker,
a tramp, a thief, I care not what. My door
shall be for ever closed against you. I will not know
you. My heart shall be as hard, as cold as stone. If
we should ever meet I would not recognise you."

Mother," cried the wild young man, now pale as
death, " if you but knew ; but no, you cannot comprehend,
because worldliness, ambition only is your god,
your guide. ~No, I will not say what  "

You had better not," cried Augusta, turning imperiously
upon him, " if it concerns the bailiff's daughter
at Avonmore, whose ruin you doubtless did seek to
compass. Go, sir," she added, " and if you choose to
defy me, come not again into my presence. You shall
not even sit down at my table to-day. On the contrary,
if reason prevails, you will find me at your
service."

Tresham rose from his seat. He gazed upon his
mother as he turned to depart. He could see determination
not to be shaken in her look, her mien. Ashe
sought his room he murmured, " Helene, Helene,
there is indeed no help."

And now let us return to Sir Charles. Agitated,
irritated to the last degree, a prey to the bitterest
grief, he had quitted Avonmore. So agitated, so
disturbed had he been, that not until he had travelled
some miles along the London road did it occur to him
how impossible it would be, in his present state of mind,
for him to meet any of his family or his acquaintances.
He determined to break his journey, determined when
he reached Gloucester there to put up for the night.

Eemember, reader, we are not in our story travelling
by railroad. At the time I write of there was no railroad
even in contemplation in this part of the country.
People of rank, people of fortune, travelled in their own
carriages, changing horses every twelve or fourteen
miles at various well-known and well-provided hotels
and posting-houses. And no hotel was better known
on this particular route than " The Bell " at Gloucester.

Ah, young reader, " young rapid," you, at least, can
never have seen or been at " The Bell." And how few
grave and middle-aged people care to read stories such
as this I write ! Well, then, young rapid, for your
benefit 1 will describe its peculiarities. It was a house
old and vast. Rooms, chambers it had, large and

gloomy. Even at this distance of time I can behold
the chamber, the furniture of the great chamber in
which Sir Charles lay that next night. Dark sombre
green the carpet, dark faded green the rich brocaded
hangings of the venerable four-post bedstead. The
room was melancholy almost as the mind of its present
occupant. We have yet to speak of the situation of
The Bell," and here was its charm.

The lofty chimneys of the hotel seemed almost to
intermingle with the spiral ornamentation of the
cathedral. You gazed out of your window on the
habitation of the dead ; you seemed to be inhabiting a
portion of their long, last home. I do not know it asa
fact, but should imagine that " The Bell " originally
had been a religious house attached to the cathedral
church.

Our poor baronet found a harmony with his sadness
in the interior of the cathedral.

When he had partaken of his slender repast he
strolled through the venerable building. He gazed on
the monuments, he wondered as he gazed whether the
occupant of each grave over which he trod had had a
destiny wretched as his own. His many thousands a
year he counted as nothing. His manors, his parks,
were but incumbrances. He only coveted the rest, the
oblivion of earthly sorrow that the dead had attained.

And night came, and the elder Daubing sought the
gloomy chamber we have described. He undressed at
ten o'clock. He lay down in the great bed, but after
nearly an hour's sleeplessness he arose. He threw open
his window ; he gazed forth on the romantic scene so

very near. It was a soft, a lovely summer night. The
moonbeams played on arch and spire. Suddenly the
brief sweet music of the cathedral's chime fell upon
his ear, then the great clock tolled eleven. Oh, what
recollection, what direful recollection the striking
clock awakes in his soul ! That hour  that hour that
the night before had extinguished hope, confirmed his
worst suspicions. Could he ever see eleven even in
print, could he ever hear the word pronounced again,
without a shudder?

Long, long Charles Daubigny sat at the open window,
lost in cruel thought, in very cruel thought ; for as
his first irritation and anger died away, self-reproach
began to mingle with his sorrow. Why had he not
expostulated before, instead of fiercely condemning
after? Why had he not prevented the wretched scene?
Why, in his rage, had he uttered words, told truths,
that now he felt ashamed to think of ? Had he been
mad, to act a part so wholly contrary to his usual
nature ? And now, when he thought of the girl's resentment,
when he thought of her indignation, his love
for her, his tenderness but increased. There could be
no acting, no artifice in that. But, alas ! there w r as the
one goading truth, never to be blotted from his memory;
she loved his worthless nephew. She had suffered him
to embrace her once. What, what might be in the
future ?

Eeader, have you ever felt such extreme depression
that the spirit seems unable longer to sustain its mortal
burden ? Have you ever felt a shrinking from mankind,

a desire only to be nothing,  no more a part
of onr artificial world ? Have you ever come to say,
Oh, God of Heaven, give me but a quiet grave ?

This state of feeling may arise from weak, from
failing health. The healthful and the strong can
scarcely comprehend the misery arising from such
utter prostration of spirit. Prosperity, the largest
fortune can have no charm for the man who feels or
fancies that his heart is broken.

Charles Daubigny was of so delicate a constitution,
he had so long been in what is termed declining health,
that it is not surprising this last mental shock should
have reduced him to despair, to utter indifference.

"The Bell" at Gloucester was the last place he
would have selected or elected to remain in. Yet
being there, the contemplation of moving onwards, the
idea of movement, of exertion, added to his misery.
For a couple of days he remained there inactive, indifferent,
a prey to the deepest melancholy. One
circumstance, one consideration alone urged him to
exertion, to movement. To write and order his letters
to be sent to him at "The Bell" he felt to be
impossible. He was sensible, he was conscious that
the world would say that a man with a London
house, with a country house besides Avonmore, could
scarcely be deemed sane if he continued at " The Bell."
He had always been a martyr to sensitiveness ; he had
always shrunk from inviting remark.

To his London house he felt he could not go at the
present time. To be so near a neighbour to his sister-in-law
was not to be thought of. Her searching glance,

her shrewd suspicions, her questioning he could not
patiently endure. Moreover, he should not be able to
speak to her of her son, nor would he speak to him if
they met. Then he must go to Brierly, the country
house in which he did occasionally make some stay.

Ah, yes, at length he screws his courage up. He
bids the ever obnoxious Tummas order his carriage,
order post-horses to it. He rings for his bill.

Pale as a ghost, and sadder than a ghost, our poor
master steps into the luxuriously cushioned vehicle,
and leaning back, with closed eyes, with his thin wan
hands locked together, pressed hard together, he
journeys on, wishing the carriage were his hearse,
Tummas, the undertaker's man, carrying him to the
vault in Brierly Churchyard, where some of his dead
kindred already lay. The long, long journey, now
that he had once begun it, as he must continue to
exist, he wished were endless. Yes, shut into his
carriage he was free from intrusion ; he might indulge
in cruel reverie. Ah, how he hated the thought of
the moment when the carriage would be whirled up to
the hall door at Brierly, and when he should have to
step out and move and speak like an ordinary mortal.
Sometimes during this lonely journey he had asked
himself, " Am I in my right senses ? Was I not mad
when I spoke to her as I did ? Helene, Helene," he
would murmur, "was it reserved for thee quite to
bring me to destruction?"

At length the dreaded end of the journey is accomplished.
Our poor invalid sits and moves again amid
his own goods and chattels. Breakfast, luncheon, and

dinner are served to him with some degree of formality
and state ; for at Brierly is a grand old housekeeper
and a staff of servants. It is one of the rich man's
acknowledged homes ; but here there is no Mrs. Bird,
no kind old nurse to whom he could speak of his
ailments, and very, very weak and low, and rather
strange was our poor master getting. He wrote, however,
to Augusta telling her where he was, where she
should send his letters. He wrote also to Graham.

One morning, nearly a week after his arrival at
Brierly Park, Charles Daubigny awoke, feeling so weak,
so exhausted, he began to think he must indeed
send for his London doctor. He is debating the pointing
his mind as he continues lying in bed, and he is
in bed this morning considerably after his usual time
of rising.

As he is not down at the customary time, the
officious Tummas, whom he retains about him merely
from a nervous dread that if he sent Tummas back to
his London house he might tell more than the master
cares should be known there, asks at the door, " Please
sir, shall I bring your letters up ?"

By all means," answers the master, hastily rising,
unconscious that his reverie had been so lengthy.

Another minute and the fool enters with the letters
on a little silver waiter. Sir Charles seizes one which
he sees is in the handwriting of Mrs. Cyril, then bids
the fellow set the others down and leave him.

Our poor master has scarce read Augusta's letter a
quarter through, when his hand trembles so that the
delicately scented epistle nearly falls from it. Amaze-vol.

1. Q

merit of mind for the moment almost overpowers his
little remaining strength ; agitation so disturbs the
beating of his heart.

The lady writes informing her brother-in-law of
Tresham's positive engagement, his approaching marriage.
She is sure this most fortunate affair, this most
unobjectionable match, will give as much satisfaction
to dear Charles as it gives to herself. The Augusta
enters upon her one great difficulty, namely, the want
of money. It is impossible, unless her dear Charles,
with his usual generosity, assists her, that the affair
can go on and come off creditably.

Sir Charles now remembered having heard that his
precious heir-expectant, after only a few weeks' intimacy
with her, had made an offer to the little heiress,
that the girl's uncle and guardian had objected, that
he had forbidden any further intercourse between the
young people, and he had of course thought there was
an end of the matter, particularly he inferred so from
Tresham's reckless habits since.

It was a piece of news to our poor master almost
miraculous, a relief so unexpected, so totally unlooked
for. The darkness of despair seemed already somewhat
alleviated ; a ray of light dawned for him amid the
surrounding gloom, and for the first time since that
night when the old monastic clock had told in sonorous
tones the hour of eleven, when hope was crushed, for
the first time since then his soul, his spirit, rose in
thankfulness to God.

So great, however, was his agitation, he was very
long in dressing, in composing himself sufficiently to

appear at the breakfast-table ; and so weak, so faint
he felt, no morsel could he touch of the savoury fare
set before him. A single cup of tea was all he took.

But breakfast over, sitting in solitude by the open
window, gazing on the lovely distant view, the nearer
verdure of the garden, the soft breeze playing on his
wan and wasted features, he began sensibly to revive ;
and oh, how delightful was the task before him of
writing to Augusta, of assuring her of his hearty cooperation,
of assuring that want of money should be
no obstacle to the match. She had but to state her
ideas, her wishes.

And oh, how joyfully Augusta received her dear
Charles's answer ; she really this time had trembled to
make a demand so extensive as it must be.

But that which gave joy and hope to the mother
wrought but slow torture, penance on the son.

More than two months of excessive weariness for
Helene had stolen away since the night so fatal to the
happiness of herself and Charles Daubigny. In all that
time she had heard absolutely nothing of the movements
of either the uncle or the nephew. Sir Charles wrote
occasionally, it is true, a few lines on matters of
business, in answer to her father's suggestions or requests
; and once he had appended to his short letter a
postscript, stating that now he felt certainly better, but
that he had been feeling very ill. This was all Helene
had heard ; and perhaps this determined, this continuous
silence on the part of her Saint was worse to her,
was harder to be borne, than would have been even
words of reproach. Such silence seemed, as she thought,
to testify of an utter indifference. The girl's spirits
were completely tamed down ; her steps, when unseen
by mortal eye, had grown slow and sad ; they no longer
danced like the sunbeams. The rosy bloom on her
cheek was subdued ; her pretty little lingers were fast
losing their sunburn, and she always quite forgot now
to adorn them with her mother's many rings. But so
intense was the love she bore her father, that for him
there was ever a smile. She was ever cheerful, apparently

cheerful when he was by. She was the sharer
frequently of his walks and drives. How did she study
to deceive ! How did she try to appear all that she
used to be ere he went away !

For several weeks they had been re-established in
their cottage home, and rarely now did Helene turn her
steps or her eyes in the direction of the great house.
Pain, pain, pain, would be graven for her on cedar and
on orangery, and for the great chamber she once had
loved so well, that she hoped never more to enter or behold.
But for the love she bore her father, her daily
life, so uniform, so little varied, had been at this time a
life of perpetual gloom. Such love, however, induced
constant exertion, unremitting self-restraint. She
would not mar his returning happiness, or shall we call
it by the milder name of satisfaction ? She would not
lessen his dawning satisfaction. She saw that he was
really, since his return from France, quite an altered
man. His spirits and his health so improved. Yes,
with the certainty of independence of fortune before
him, with the expectation that his long-cherished claim
might yet be established, he seemed to have grown years
younger. The girl often silently gazed on her father,
and wondered in her heart how he could thus have
surmounted or buried his sorrow.

One morning about this time Helene went down to
the breakfast-table as usual. Graham was absent from
it. Early as was the hour, he had gone out riding, and
had not yet returned. He was trying a new horse, and
in the excitement of testing its capabilities, time or the
breakfast hour was forgotten. Lying by her father's

plate the girl saw a letter. It was in the handwriting
of Charles Daubigny. She never presumed to open
her father's letters, so she sat gazing on the outside,
her heart, in spite of all her efforts at self-control,
beating at a quickened pace.

At length Graham enters. He sees the letter ; it
can be nothing but a business letter, muses he, as his
eye rests upon it ; he therefore takes his coffee beside
him, helps himself to ham, and begins cracking an egg.

Helene could patiently endure no longer. "Will
you just look at the letter, papa, please," she murmurs.
He said he had been ill, you know."

Oh, certainly," cried Graham, relinquishing his egg
rather petulantly. He was hungry, and a little jealous.

The girl sat watching her George's countenance as
silently he read his former rival's epistle. A smile,
half mirthful, half sarcastic, curled his lips ; and an expression
to correspond spread over his fine features, and
presently he playfully exclaimed, " Your Saint, Helene,
is certainly coming out now. I have orders to get up a
public manifestation to testify of his singular felicity."

The girl might well grow pale, might well be silent
with amazement.

Listen," continued George : 

Dear Graham,  I am sure you will allow that I am
not naturally disposed to ostentation and display ; butin
the present instance I do feel called upon to make
a decided manifestation. A matrimonial affair is about
to come off in our family,  a marriage as welcome to meas
it has been unforeseen ; and I am told, and indeed I
desire myself, that on the wedding-day there should bea

public rejoicing at Avonmore, as well as on my other
properties, that it may appear to the world how
entirely I approve of the match.

You who, by report, must know something of my
nephew's character and habits, will doubtless be surprised
to learn that he is to be the hero of the day ; that
the prodigal is about to wind up his career of folly in a
manner as satisfactory to his family as it will be advantageous
to himself.

Tresham has, indeed, made a conquest of no small
importance. Not only has he succeeded in gaining the
affections of a very amiable and unobjectionable girl,
but he will carry off with her a considerable accumulation
of ready money, and after their union will be in
receipt of some thousands a year. From this my
description, you will already have inferred that my
future niece is an orphan. She is, in fact, the only child
and heiress of the late Simon Da Costa, a merchant of
world-wide renown.

The day named for the wedding to take place is the
10th of this month, exactly eight days from that on
which I am writing. And now, my dear Graham, I
have to ask at your hands a favour, which I assure you
I ask with very great reluctance, because you will
naturally feel, although you may be too polite to say it,
Why should I be troubled about an affair in which I
can take no possible interest? ' If I could have managed
without your assistance I would not indeed have asked
it, but I cannot see my way clear otherwise. Moreover,
George, you do not despise the poor folk about
Avonmore, I know.

What I want is, that the cottagers resident in the
village and elsewhere on the estate should have, according
to the size of their families, plenty of good meat,
ale, bread, and vegetables. Let there be no stint of food
or ale. Each wife, each married man to have not less
than a guinea apiece. The labourers who have no home
should have an equally good repast. They can dine
together at" the village ale-house; and shall it be ten
shillings each ? More if you please.

And now for the better class  my tenant farmers.
Those who will condescend to come, should dine
together in the hall or dining-room of the great house ;
and if they choose, can get up for the evening a rural
ball, in which their sons and daughters may join. In
this case do not forget a supper.

Tell Helene I know that she has no more taste for
entertaining village school children than myself. I shall
not, therefore, trespass on her time or her patience, but
shall write to Mrs. Bird about a treat for them.  With
many apologies, believe me ever yours most truly."

"What do you think of it?" cried Graham, as he
finished reading the letter, and cast it down on to the
breakfast table. Without so much as looking at his
daughter, he took again to his egg and his ham.

Happy was it for Helene that her father was so
hungry after his ride as for the moment not to notice
her. She really dared not trust her voice to speak, but
stretched out a trembling hand to reach the letter.
She held it up, and commenced reading it to herself.
Here was an excuse for silence, while she might turn
to the light the better to examine it.

How much may an adroit, a quick-witted woman
manage to conceal ! Graham positively had never
suspected all or anything that had happened in his
absence. He was equally unsuspicious now, and presently
continued his remarks.

1 have taught myself to fulfil the customary duties
of a bailiff" he said, with something between a sneer
and a smile, and looking quite my lord ; " I have
taught myself to fulfil the ordinary routine, the sort of
work any common fellow might do, but, upon my soul,
this commission is rather above my poor comprehension.
Why, in God's name, can't the uncle Da
Costa, who, I know, still carries on the provisioning
business, why can't he send one of his clerks to see
to the hunks of meat for the villagers ? How am I to
order butcher's-meat by the hundredweight ? Well
(looking loftier still), well, we none of us know what
we shall come to certainly. Only imagine that 1, of
all men, should be the one selected to provide a
rejoicing for the felicity of Mrs. Cyril's son ! "

There was a moment's silence. Graham was in that
moment swallowing a second cup of coffee. But the
next was enlivened by another remark.

Why, Helene," he said, " your Saint, with all his
instructions, has forgotten the bells, and the unfortunate
bell-ringers, who will certainly be at the last gasp
with exertion."

The girl thought she had sat long enough. She
dreaded another remark addressed just then to herself
; so, softly she glided out at the French window
and escaped, to think over the news. Once safely

out of her father's sight, shut into the pretty cottage
bedroom she called her own, and Helene's self-control
was gone. She wept a passion of tears; but how
impossible it would be to define the source, the
cause of these tears. Was it love for the prodigal
whom she had lost, or was it the loss of the elder
Daubigny's affection, which caused these impassioned
tears to flow ? Which circumstance of the two
inflicted the deepest wound ? We should say the
last. For of Tresham's utter worthlessness she could
not have a doubt, and that all worthless as he was, he
yet rebelled in secret against the destiny his mother
had provided, she knew not. But for the elder man
she had indeed the tenderest regard, a very deep
affection, compounded of sensations and sentiments it
would be vain to attempt to analyse or describe. It
was not, certainly, the same sort of tenderness that she
felt for St. Louis that she felt for her father. Something
there was, or rather had been, in their intimacy
of a different character. All she knew was that Sir
Charles had loved her intensely, and having lost that
love, that love seemed more precious to her now than
when she carelessly or thoughtlessly had revelled in
the certainty of its continuance. To win back this
love, to hear Charles Daubigny once more call her his
hope, the anchor of his soul ; to look up and see his
great melancholy eyes fixed upon her as though she
were the only thing he loved or cared for, would be
sweet and welcome as a haven of rest would be to a
shipwrecked mariner. It would bring a heaven of
peace. Oh, what would she not give to regain all that

she had lost  lost, and for whom ? For one who,
perhaps, now laughed at her credulity, and only jested
over his brief hour of triumph. There was but one
ray of consolation, but one sweet thought amid all
these bitter reflections. She did believe the uncle
rejoiced over his nephew's expected marriage, because
it would place a barrier impassable betwixt herself and
Tresham.

It was Tresham Daubigny's wedding-day ; but despite
all the advantages that would accrue to him on his
marriage, his heart was heavy and his blood ran chill.
He had been acting the lover for many weeks, and now
he w r as about to perform a part in his own marriage
ceremony. It was harder to marry when the heart
was not in it than it had been ever so falsely to
play the lover. It was the last act of the tragedy
extinguishing hope ; and when the news should reach
Avonmore, how despicable would he appear in Helene's
eyes ! What a contemptible wretch, to have sold himself;
and ever and anon as the bridegroom dressed,
and after, as he waited for the moment when his
carriage should be announced, a vision, a bright vision
of Helene arose. How pale he looked ; how silent he
was ; how absent his manner !

Augusta was seldom nervous, but on this his 
she watched her son with a kind of fear.
How would it end? Would the marriage be completed
without some outbreak on his part ? Would he
reproach her ? Would he go to the church and say
never a bitter or an angry word ? She kept aloof. She
kept at a distance from her son. She almost shuddered

~DJ

if his eyes rested upon her. She had never known till
to-day that all wild and reckless as Tresham was, he
yet could feel so deeply. She had fancied that he
would go lightly through the whole affair. She had
fancied (to use one of his own favourite expressions)
that he would treat it as a mere bagatelle. At length,
to the mother's infinite relief, they are inside the
church, now they are all kneeling. She hears him
repeat the marriage vow ; she knows that he is married,
but his hollow-sounding voice as he repeats the binding
words, his pale pale face, his lips even pale, make
her heart ache, for Augusta is his mother, and though
wearied out with Tresham's recklessness, he yet is dear
to her still.

Mrs. Cyril had insisted on the impossibility of her
dear Charles, as occasionally she called her brother-in-law,
she had insisted on the impropriety of her dear
Charles being absent from the wedding. He had told
her of his failing health ; how day by day he felt
himself to be growing weaker, nearer to the grave.

It is a mere imagination," she said, smiling.

He shook his head. " I have a cough, a new thing.
I believe I caught a cold. I really cannot be at the
marriage."

Then you can be at the breakfast. Surely you can
do me that favour. Will it be w T horse for you to sit
for an hour in one warm room than in another ? The
girl will think that you have a contempt for her. She
is very sensitive I find. Her uncle, too, will certainly
have an idea that because he is in business you despise
him."

Nonsense," cried Sir Charles ; " how could I despise
a man for that ?"

Well, people who have got rich by their own exertions
often do fancy these sort of things."

I should be sorry indeed if this Mr. Da Costa or
my future niece should think me such a fool."

Well, then," cried Augusta, " be present at the
breakfast. Show them your wisdom, your amiability.
Dear Charles, do not refuse me."

I will think of it," returned St. Louis. And he did
think of it, and at length succeeded in conquering his
repugnance; he determined to be present at the
breakfast.

To conquer his disgust at meeting Tresham was,
however, impossible. They had never met since that
wretched night, and on this occasion Sir Charles
intended to avoid a direct encounter.

But now we must return to the wedding morning. It
is nearly one o'clock, and the friends and relatives of
the happy pair are assembling in Mr. Da Costa's
drawing-room. Sir Charles has arrived a quarter of
an hour before; he would not be thought proud or
unfeeling for the world. He has already been introduced
to Mr. Da Costa ; he has not only cordially
shaken hands with him, but he has said some very
kind things about the marriage. He has made the
acquaintance, too, of the innocent and hapless bride,
and has presented her, as he stands talking, with a
little jewel-case, containing a diamond and ruby locket
of considerable value. She is a little thing, with very
dark eyes and hair, and, in truth, does not walk grace -

fully ; but she looks bright and cheerful, and when she
is not walking, there is nothing unsightly about her.
The uncle is a good-looking hale man, also with dark
eyes and skin. 'Tis said they are of Portuguese extraction.


In a large party, two people bent on avoiding each
other may manage to carry out their intention. Sir
Charles has not even glanced at his nephew while they
were up-stairs in the Da Costa's drawing-room. He
was not so fortunate at the breakfast. The centre of
the table then was occupied on one side by Augusta,
seated between her brother-in-law and Mr. Da Costa ;
the bride was placed exactly opposite Augusta ; on her
right hand, the chair next her was filled by her loving-bridegroom.


Now was a trying time alike for the uncle and the
nephew. There was no evading an occasional glance,
and at length the eyes of the two men met. Tresham,
by his inherent subtlety, or by constant observation
during his residence under the same roof, had penetrated,
or had been led strongly to suspect, the nature
of his uncle's attachment to Helene. Feeling very
much like a baited bear himself, fancying he could
read an air of triumph in his uncle's complacent
manner, he determined to send forth a poisoned arrow.

Uncle Charles," he exclaimed across the table,
uncle Charles, as you see me booked for a regular
Benedict, and you know I 've been a precious wild boy
in my time, you must drink with me to oblivion of the
past No more moonlight meetings, no more stolen
embraces. Here," he continued, calling to the butler,

fill my uncle Charles's glass ; " and holding up his
own, he quaffed it down, certain there would be no
response from his tortured relative.

There was indeed none visibly, save in the momentary
flush that rose to the poor baronet's brow ; but the
allusion, the mockery of Tresham's tone and manner,
sent a thrill of pain through the master's whole being,
and brought back upon his soul, with renewed bitterness,
the memory of the girl's preference for the sinner
who confronted him.

Sir Gilbert Daubigny, who had furnished the tower
at Avonmore with its old monastic clock, had a perfect
passion for harmony. He had also bestowed upon the
village church a set of bells, capable of sending their
rich music through his whole domain.

And now to-day, upon his young descendant's
wedding day, the ringers send forth from Sir Gilbert's
bells rejoicing peals in honour of the glad occasion.

Graham's better feelings had prevailed, and he had
just left his cottage home to preside over the dinner to
be given at the great house to Sir Charles's tenant
farmers. Graham had nobly subdued his irritation,
his rebellious spirit, and had determined to perform
heartily, with right good-will, the duties of a steward.
He had called up his gratitude, he had thought of
the tenderness, the consideration with which Helene
had been treated; and though he did think Charles
Daubigny rather ridiculous, rather growing into an
old woman, he went forth now bent upon performing,
with his best ability, the duty required of him.

The girl took no part in the affair ; her mind had
been so agitated during the last week, had been so
long enduring the slow torture of constraint, that she

vol. I. R

really was not well, and thus was exempted from
appearing ; no one, save Mrs. Bird, suspecting the real
source of her headache and depression. Ah, reader,
wilt thou behold our Helene now, this gala hour,
when all the village teems with mirth, when borne
upon the breeze come from afar, come from the village
green, shouts of merriment mingling with the deep rich
music of Sir Gilbert's bells, wilt thou behold her now ?

Graham gone, she seeks her pretty little bedroom,
and sits gazing out at the open window listening to the
distant voices, listening to the bells as peal after peal
breaks forth and floats by her on the soft autumnal air.

'Tis a lovely day for the time of year, the second
week of October. How beautifully blended are the
tints of the autumnal touched leaves, those leaves the
girl remembered to have watched last April, as day by
day, 'mid sunshine and 'mid shower, they had unfolded
and expanded ; and now they seem ready, waiting but
to fall and die. The turf in the park is strewn already
with their dying beauty, and the fern, the far-stretching
fern in the park, that that she had loved to see in the
spring arise amid the fine short turf, that too is tinted,
that bears token of its coming doom.

Oh, as Helene looks out on the garden near her, on
the undulating park that surrounds it, on the wilder
scenery of the vast forest beyond, there is something
soothing to her sadness, something congenial with her.
sorrow in this lovely but mournful autumn view. The
robin sings his shrill wild note a-near, the cawing rooks
are faintly heard, the wood doves from the mighty
forest trees utter forth their burning coo, the music of

the bells sweeps by, and tears, not impassioned tears,
but tears of sorrow, fill the girl's deep blue eyes and
steal down her fair young cheeks. She thinks over
her own strange destiny. She has discovered she is
but a child of earth, born unholy and unblest, with
none that she may claim as kindred, disowned alike by
Grahams and by Vanes, a creature having no place in
the world. Then she thinks of Charles Daubigny, of
all his depth of tenderness, and how, and deservedly,
she has lost, she has forfeited it ; and fast and thick
her tears fall now. She turns from the window ; her
eyes rest on her patron's best and costliest gift, that
exquisite head of Christ which he had sent to adorn
her bedroom, and hourly to remind her of her Saviour's
never-failing mercy and His unwearying intercession.
Helene, by nature, was often, in her unpremeditated
and impulsive movements, graceful, picturesque, almost
theatrical. No mortal eye can see her, but she casts
herself down before the picture of that man acquainted
with grief. She calls on the Son of God, she' prays
Him, in mercy, in pity, to intercede on her behalf.
She prays with such intensity of feeling that her young
bosom heaves, her heart beats quicker than is its wont.
She asks that a ray, a beam of grace may rest upon
her ; she asks, if she may dare to ask so much, that
some good angel may watch over her ; she asks if it
may be possible for a return, a renewal of that earthly
love she had so idly cast away.

The girl's soul at length grows calmer ; her impassioned
tears cease to flow, and slowly and sadly she
saunters forth, goes wandering in the park amid the
many falling leaves.

The excitement occasioned by Tresham's marriage
subsided, Helene's daily life became monotonous as
before the news reached Avonmore. A weight, however,
seemed ever on her heart, a cloud seemed ever
hanging over her, but youth and health enabled her to
bear up under the cruel burden she had brought upon
herself ; yet how hard it was always to appear to her
father to be what she was not ! How hard was it to
have to bear so much mental misery without daring to
betray the slightest word of the cause ! How hard,
how difficult a task to keep from her father's knowledge
that she and Sir Charles were at variance !
Graham's spare time, happily for Helene, was so
occupied in looking through a mass of papers, with the
old or the former evidence given, produced in his
peerage case, he was so mentally absorbed in the corrections,
the additions to be made to this former
evidence, he was so buoyed up, so elated with the hope
of success, that Helene's quieter manner was not so
much observed by him as otherwise it would have been.
Graham's plan was to wait until fortune was secured
to him by his poor aunt's death. His determination
was to remain just as he was at Avonmore, pursuing

the avocations of a steward, until her departure to
another world should set him free. Meanwhile he
would prepare, he would consult, that immediately
after he became independent he might again urge his
claim. Thus Graham, in his monotonous country life,
with hope before him, was almost at rest, at ease,
while Helene, in the same monotony, but with no ray
of hope, in the most cruel ignorance and suspense, had
dismal dreams and restless nights, and mournful
reveries by day.

And winter came with bitter blast and falling snow.
The mountains, the Welsh mountains, in the distance,
snow-capped, glittered in the sun. Then next set in a
.sudden thaw. The waters of the Wye, the queen of
rivers, swollen by the rapid thawing of the mountain
snow, swept by in waves at hurrying pace, overflowing
many a cottage hearth, many a fair green sward, submerging
even the lowly rocky seat whereon our Helene
soft reclined when Tresham's arm embraced her. And
sadder in this dreary weather grew the young girl's
heart. So lomb it was since she had heard one word
of him she loved with such a depth of veneration.
"He was my Heaven' how often murmured Helene !
He was all truth all light I sinned ; he saw that I
was false ml will" 1, and his stainless nature has no
longer sympathy with mine ; but oh, his Lord, his
God had pity for the meanest and the worst. Will he
never look upon me more ? Shall I never hear his
deep-toned voice again \ Will his dear sad eyes ne'er
rest upon me with their fond, their anxious gaze
again ?"

Never," answered Helene, " never. The only friend
I had on earth, the only one that loved me, save papa,
I sickened, I disgusted. Oh, what a destiny is mine ! "

So mused the girl one dismal winter night, so mused
she through a weary wakeful hour. " And tomorrow,"
murmured Helene, " the New Year comes ; tomorrow
it is January, and January will come again, but still
no dawn of light for me."

Next morning she arose, was dressed, was half way
down the stairs, when, from his bedroom door, her father
called. " Helene," he said, " I have had a letter this
morning ; they brought it up to me because immediate
was written outside it. I am afraid the news it
contains will disturb you as much as it disturbs me.
I am summoned instantly to Calais. It seems my aunt
took it into her head to return to England, and got as
far as Calais, when she was attacked by a new disorder,
taken fearfully ill, and desires that I come instantly to
her. Will you go with me, or will you stay with Mrs.
Bird ?"

Neither," cried Helene, flying up the stairs to him,
I would rather stay in my own home  here. I am
older now, and shall not want to be with Mrs. Bird ;
and as to going with you, uninvited, my presence
undesired  " and Helene's lips qi - Vj turned

away to hide her heartache.

I wish," continued Graham, " you would go to Mrs.
Bird ; it is not at all fit for you to be left here alone."

Well, I shall try, and if I feel miserable, I can but
ask her to have me."

"Helene," said Graham, as he went on hurriedly

packing his portmanteau, " Helene, I am certain there
is something different in your feelings to Charles
Daubigny from what there used to be. Once or twice
I have noticed some confusion in your manner when
I have mentioned his name, and now you object to
stay during my absence at Avonmore."

There is nothing different in my feelings at all,"
cried the girl, colouring deeply ; " he has been to me the
tenderest, the kindest  " She could say no more ; despite
all her efforts to restrain them, her tears gushed forth.

Upon my soul," cried the poor steward, giving his
portmanteau an impatient kick with his very handsome
foot, " upon my soul, it 's too much. What with this
crazy woman at Calais, and you crying here, and
having this to do that I hate doing."

Oh, papa," cries the girl, kneeling down by the
over-filled portmanteau, " I can do it best. This coat
must come out ; it 's too full, you must have a carpetbag
as well."

The devil is in it !" muttered George. Then presently
reverting to his aunt, he said, " The poor
creature's mind is evidently wrong. What could,
were she in her senses, have induced her to move in
winter ? "

Papa ; there, see, it 's all right," exclaimed the girl,
rising from the floor, where she had been kneeling.
You will not mind having the carpet-bag as well.
But why don't you have some breakfast ?"

Why don't I do a hundred things that ought to be
done before I go ? "

But you must have some breakfast."

A label must be written ; there are no initials,
nothing to show the portmanteau is mine."

That you can do ; I am going to make the tea,"
cried Helene, running off, thankful to escape without
further questioning. But now another vexation. In
answer to the bell the housemaid appears, declaring
the kettle does not boil.

"Then you must make it boil at once," retorts
Helene.

Oh, Miss, that's cook's business, not mine."

I will come myself and see," cries Helene, running
to the kitchen." " Papa must have some tea or coffee
before he goes."

No one here," exclaims George, entering the empty
breakfast-room. " Women are all and always mad ! "

He rings the bell. Housemaid appears.

The water ain't ready, sir."

"Tell Miss Helene I have but ten minutes, or at
most a quarter of an hour."

He had scarcely dismissed the maid when Helene
rushes in, teapot in hand ; the feat of water-boiling
and tea-making had been accomplished.

"Pray, papa, eat something," cries the girl, as she
pours out his tea. The poor steward shrugs his
shoulders. " Eat what  the loaf?"

Another ring. " Bring the eggs, Jane ; be as quick
as you can."

The eggs, Miss, isn't quite ready yet, cook says."

Bring me the cold beef," says George, a hand that
bore no token of his fallen lot impatiently touching
his moustache.

Yes, sir ; and Mr. Lewis is a-waiting' in the kitchen,
sir ; you desired to see him, sir."

Up starts our harassed bailiff. He must give at least
some directions to Lewis, the gardener of long standing
at Avonmore, as to the wages to be paid on Saturday,
and various other little matters. The quarter of an
hour is wellnigh spent ere he returns ; but the ever
tender-hearted girl bethinks herself how she can make
sure he has some breakfast; she busies herself in cutting
for him a few sandwiches from the cold beef.

The cart is at the door, he must go.

Papa, please take these few sandwiches," cries
Helena

He eyes them, he gazes on Helene with astonishment.


My dear child," cries he, u did you ever know me
carry bread and butter in my hand ? I would sooner
starve."

He kisses her ; he is gone.

The girl cannot help shedding some tears as she
watches the dog-cart bear her ofttimes proud and disagreeable
George away. And yet, with all his faults,
how much she loved him !

In the afternoon comes Mrs. Bird, begging our poor
troubled Helene to stay at Avonmore with her.

It is very kind of you to come," answers the girl,
but indeed I am quite old enough now to stay here."

Mrs. Bird shook her head. " Miss Helene," she said,
you 'd be a deal safer with me."

I really cannot come. Indeed, I must stay,"
answered Helene.

At length Mrs. Bird departs ; but it is evident she is
much hurt by Helene's rejection of Avonmore as a
place of refuge during her father's absence. The old
nurse took leave with a wrinkled brow, with a croaking
voice.

It was a dreary winter day. The fog that hung dense
in the distant parts of the park hovered also round the
lowly-thatched cottage. Outside, the view had nothing
in it to cheer, and Helene sat gazing upon the only
bright thing visible,  sat gazing on the log-wood fire, as
it rose, now in blue, and now in rosy flames, upon her
little drawing-room hearth. The girl gazed upon the
fire. She sat by it as it were instinctively, but her
vexed thoughts were not of it, not relating to it. She
was thinking of trifles she abhorred ; she was thinking
of her miniature household, of her housekeeping. She
was thinking that everything was wrong, and that she
knew not how to remedy the nuisances that seemed
likely day by day to increase. Scarcely had Graham
been gone a week when the cook became rude if her
young mistress ordered, interfered, or came near the
kitchen. The housemaid had given herself airs before
Graham's departure. She was growing insufferably
flighty; and there were worse things, as Helene believed,
going on in the night than in the day. She felt sure
that she could hear the voices of men at the back-door
of the cottage after she had gone herself to bed. One
day she had run to the kitchen door to ask for a bit of

bread for a starving robin. The cook looked like
thunder.: : Helene could - standing 1-ech

drinking his beer, an Avonmore keeper and somebc
buck-skinned groom.

Three creeks had passed since her fathers departure,
and she was realising all the mis :f her own

defenceless incomplete nc v. She began to think that
even cumbered with all the bitter rec" I :: would

bring, to be at the gre I h use luring the remain
of her fa the: 'a Le :tian

her present life. Thus mused our poor Helen
i, without seeing them, on the glowing malthus
eras when a little out-door sound attracted

her attention She looked out and saw a something
that brought ;-. scene of the st 1 smite her L
anew. She looked out to see Mrs. Bird driving in her
donkey chair towards the The girl heaved a

bitter sigh; she rang the bell, ordered the maid to
find some one to go to Mrs. Bird and take the done
to the stable : and opening the French window, and
running herself, she greeted the old dame, and told
her some one would come directly for the donkey.

Mrs Bird, I am so thankful you have come '.''
re Helene's first words when once they were alone
together in the : stage Ira wing-room. I sally

quite des then in a half whisper she added,

 The servants won't mind a word I say. and sometu
1 m suite sc

 A::. Miss Helene," answered isean
gravity in her manner, "you'd a deal better come tome.
I've re son for calling I see you; it a no trine

brings me. I must have a long, long talk. There's
a deal on my mind. If you would but go back with
me."

Is there anything the matter with any one ?" asked
Helene confusedly. She dared not mention Sir Charles's
name.

Ay, my dear, a great, great deal the matter ; and
nothing' 'full ever mend while you keep so proudly aloof."

Proudly aloof !" echoed the girl. "What can you
mean?"

He thinks so, my dear. His poor heart 's yearning
for you, a-bleedin' for you. Oh, Miss Helene, he 's
a-going' abroad ; the doctor orders him abroad, and be
sure, child, if once he does he '11 never come back ao;ain
alive to us."

Do you mean to say," asked Helene, " that he is
going out of England ? " The girl scarce knew what
she said.

Ay, if you don't stop him ; if you don't send him
some kind message. Poor dear heart, he ha' been down
here to take leave of me, as he said ; but I knew well
enough 'twas to ask about you, Miss Helene. And sad,
indeed, he was, specially when he found how resolute
you 'd kept aloof, and never called at the great house,
and wouldn't even come when your pa went abroad."

"He has been at Avonmore," faltered out Helene,
and I never knew it ! "

He charged me, my dear, to keep it a secret. But
my mind 's so wretched I determined to come and tell
ye. Sure, Miss Helene, you have some feeling for my
poor master?"

Feeling !" cried Helene. " I have never ceased to
love him ; but I thought, yes indeed, I thought he
cared for me no longer."

Oh, child, what a terrible business it is ! He 's
a-wasted away a'niost to a skeleton, and you ha' done
it all."

"Don't drive me mad!" cried Helene, in accents
strange and hoarse. " Oh, I shall die. I wish to  "

]STo, child ; you 'd a-better try to live, and set about
a-savin' of him."

How can I save him ? "

I 'm a-going to write to him to-night ; that 's why I
came. I said to myself over and over again, Maybe
she '11 let me send just a word 0' kindness."

Just a word ! Oh, I will write to him myself if it 's
any use."

Go home with me, child ; write from Avonmore.
The very idea that you 're there will help to heal his
breaking' heart."

I'll do anything," cried the trembling girl. " But
are you sure he wants me to come ?"

Wants you to come ? How has he grieved about
it ! How was his last hope gone, as he said, when
you stayed here so resolute !"

I never knew, I never knew," murmured Helene,
weeping, " that he loved me still"

Loves you, child ! Oh, he more than loves you. But
I fear it 's all too late. He 's but the ghost 0' what he
was."

Don't tell me these things," cried the girl. " What
can I do ?"

Go with me now  now. Get on your things, and
write to him this very day."

You have made me tremble so I can hardly stand.
Oh, Oiseau, bid the creature bring my bonnet, my
gloves, a cloak."

And your night-clothes," added Mrs. Bird.

Helene's tears fell fast, The vision of the great
chamber hung with chamois rose before her, but she
said nothing ; and Mrs. Bird left the room in search of
the flighty maid, and presently returned laden with a
carpet-bag, the maid following with the bonnet, cloak,
and gloves. On entering the room the latter personage
stared at the agitated girl in wonder.

I am going away with Mrs. Bird," was all that
Helene said, as she took the bonnet and hastily put it
on, and had the cloak wrapped round her by Oiseau.

I 'm sure cook and me 's very sorry, Miss, if we 've
vexed you so."

I am not thinking of either of you," answered
Helene. " Some bad news makes me quite forget either
of you exist."

During Oiseau's short absence from the room she
had bidden the other servant order her donkey-chair
to the door. Already it is there. With some slight
difficulty the rheumatic old dame places herself in it.
Helene follows. They are driving towards Avonmore.

Meanwhile the housemaid, enraged at her young
mistress's sudden and unceremonious departure, enraged
at what she deems her contemptuous words and manner
as she leaves the cottage, enters the kitchen abusing
the proud little minx."

To think, cook, too, of a bailiff's daughter a-givin' of
herself these hairs. Why, I '11 be blessed if she 's a bit
more of a lady than we."

Never mind," cries cook, " can't we just ha' some
fun ? No need to do our courting' out-door to-night."

I '11 just run up and make sure of a few pair of her
best stockings. Lord, she '11 never miss 'urn."

Bring me a handecher or two ; them with the lace
on  ay, sure," with a laugh, cries cook.

END OF VOL. I.

PRINTED BY T. AND A. CONSTABLE, PRINTERS TO HER MAJESTY,
AT THE EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY PRESS.

mm

of the:

U N IVLR.SITY

Of ILLINOIS

St 362o
v.2

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/ourlittlegipsyno02stei

3L flUrbel

BY

EMMA C. C. Tinman

AUTHOR OF "THE OI,T) HOI'SK AT Adding."

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

Umtbrnt

SAMUEL Tinsel & CO.

31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND

18.81.

[All Rights reserved.]

OUR LITTLE GIPSY.

CHAPTER XXX.

Again the girl is at Avonmore. She is so amazed,
so agitated, so overjoyed, yet so intensely wretched
from all she hears, from all Mrs. Bird tells her, that no
wonder the note she writes to Sir Charles, the note
that she brings to Oiseau to enclose in her letter, but
which the old dame begs she will send separately, will
direct in her own handwriting,  no wonder if the note
she writes is somewhat incoherent. Not ten minutes
was the trembling hand in writing it. It was the
language of the heart : it sprang from a nature that was
by no means commonplace. For Helene's nature, untutored,
unrestricted, unblemished by fear, by command,
by formality, was essentially different from, the artificial
character of our usual everyday young ladies.

Grammar, its rules, its terms, were quite beyond
Helene's comprehension. Nouns, pronouns, adjectives,
substantives, were as mystic a language to her as Greek
or Hebrew. Forgive, then, more learned reader, the
wild, impassioned, incongruous style of the little note
I lay before thee.

Oiseau tells me that your physician has ordered

VOL. II. A

you to go in search of health to Italy or to the south
of France, and that you, feeling the necessity of obeying
son conseil, are about to proceed thither.

If you should withdraw yourself, if you should
depart sans un mot de tendresse, how shall I sustain
tain your absence ? How can I endure it ?

"Already for me the sun has lost its glory; a shadow,
a dark shadow seems ever to rest upon me. The earth
no more teems with beauty. The flowers I see, yet
heed them not ; I gather them no more. Si tu ne me
croire passe ton coeur ne response point a la mienne,
quest ce que c'est mais la misery qui ne cesserai jamais,
what but eternal anguish for Helene ?

"Oh, what have I endured in having to hide my
misery from papa !"

Scarcely was Helene's note despatched when she
began to feel anxious. Ought she not to have been
more cautious ? Ought she to have written so completely
as nature dictated ?

Yet her attachment to Sir Charles (as her conscience
told her) was of a character so blameless and unsullied,
and he so excellent a man, and so much older than
herself, she did not think he could or would misconstrue
that which had been wrung from her solely by
Mrs. Bird's representations. Still, however much she
tried to quiet her mind, her efforts were unavailing.
That night she could not rest ; if for a few minutes she
did fall asleep, it was only to start up again as though
some new apprehension, some new burden was weighing
on her heart. Coming to Avonmore so suddenly this
winter weather, Mrs. Bird insisted that the only bedroom

sufficiently aired was that which Sir Charles had
so recently occupied, and in this Helene was placed the
first night after her arrival.

There were no visible traces remaining of its latest
occupant. Yet whenever the girl looked around, the
idea of being in his room wounded her delicacy. She
determined she would never sleep there again. And
the morning came, and she bade Oiseau give her at
night another room.

Much to the girl's satisfaction, the old dame replied
that she had never intended she should remain in her
master's apartment, but then went on to say that all
yesterday a fire had been blazing in the chamber hung
with chamois. It was alight now. She had just been
seeing to it herself. The room would be ready presently.


Believed by the commencement of Mrs. Bird's reply,
Helene was equally dismayed when she heard its termination,
 when she heard whither at night she was to
be transferred. But, ashamed to confess the cause of
her heart's agitation, she did not, she dared not remonstrate.
She remained silent. Yet if anything was
wanting to add to her mental confusion, to her depression
of spirits, to have to sleep once more in that
particular chamber supplied it. She bore up, however,
she maintained her composure during the day; but
when night came, when she was shut into that great
room alone, she could endure no more. She wept a
passion of tears. And when sonorously the old monastic
clock tolled eleven, that dreadful hour again seemed
present : again she seemed to hear the angry tones of

St. Louis's voice as he reproached her with falsehood,
with treachery. His cruel sarcasms, his rage, his condemnation
sounded anew. How could she have written
to him ? Had she slept in this room before, she had
never written as she had written.

After Helene went down to breakfast  to the 
set out for her alone, to the solitary cup, the
preparation for a single person,  feeling so depressed,
so dejected, she almost wished herself home again at
the cottage. There was a want of dignity, a kind of
abject humility, she now began to think, in having
ventured thus alone to Avonmore, uninvited, unsolicited
by its master. Her nervous fears and fancies made
her perfectly wretched. Helene had taken to working
with her needle, but her work was left at the cottage.
She went into the old library, she gazed on the plays
and romances that once had been so attractive  they
could attract no more. Finally she carried off a volume
of Beaumont and Fletcher. She had found a tragedy,
but even that could not (beautifully as it was written)
fix her attention. Her eyes saw the printed page, yet
her mind took not in its meaning.

Thus passed this day in restlessness, dejection. But
at night she was more fortunate. Completely worn
out with the mental struggle she had undergone, she
sank into a sweet and childlike slumber, nor woke till
morning. Brighter and fairer she arose, for the long
sound sleep had refreshed and reinvigorated her. She
was like an opening rosebud refreshed by the dew of a
summer night or by a gentle shower. Yes, her fear,
her depression was slightly mitigated. In the afternoon

the girl ventured once round the garden, and,
having warm out-door clothes on, when she returned
wandered through the half-furnished room she used
when a child to play in. How impossible it seemed to
her now that she could have been so silly, so childlike,
so vain, so easily amused, only such a short time ago.
Oh, what a change had been wrought! and with a deep,
a heavy sigh, the girl sank down on an old high-backed
chair with carved wooden arms to it. As she sat she
leaned an elbow on one of them, and covered her face
with her hand, as though to shut out the melancholy
past, the cloudy future.

A distant footstep partially roused her from her
reverie. It must be Mrs. Bird. She got up, she turned
into another room, that she might continue in solitude.
She was wandering sadly along, when again the footstep
sounded. Mrs. Bird must want her, must be in
search of her. She stood still. Some one entered the
door of the half furnished room, some one drew nearer.
Could it be? Was it possible? Yes, it was Sir Charles.
The girl was mute, her colour fled. He held out his
hands, he grasped her wrists, he gazed on her pale and
agitated face. Her eyes dared not encounter his longer
than a moment ; there was such a light, such a deep,
intense, impassioned expression, something so new,
so strange in his gaze, her eyelids drooped. Another
moment, and he had pressed her to his bosom.

"Helene," he said, " may I call you mine, my own ? "
She was so agitated she scarce could comprehend, yet
she could distinguish further the words, "My wife,
Lady Daubigny." On hearing this, she gave a start of

amazement. "Helene," he continued, "you bade me
come, you surely cannot be so heartless as to raise my
hopes and then blast them. Tell me, am I dear to you?
Can you bear with an old, an infirm man,  perhaps not
for very long ? It may be that my days on earth, are
numbered; but to have you near me. You do not
answer."

"I am indeed so surprised," murmured the half-fainting
girl ; " I was so unprepared for this."

"And you demur? You would not sacrifice your
young life ? You would not bind yourself to such a
grievous destiny?"

Au contraire," answered Helene, " 'tis I who have
to fear. How could I expect you loved me well enough?
How could I imagine that your love was of this nature ?"

Tell me," he continued, gazing intently upon her,
tell me, is that false light extinct ? Tell me, shall I
have but a divided heart ?"

Do not speak to me," cried the girl, u do not
speak to me of that. You were my Heaven, he but a
meteor passing by. It is over, it is gone."

"Thank God," he murmured. "Tell me, dearest,
again, is it truth ? Is it from your soul, Helene ?"

The girl, always graceful, picturesque, gently cast
herself on her knees before him ; she took her old
lover's hand in hers ; she kissed it.

God," she said, " knows how I have prayed to be
forgiven; God knows the depth, the truth of my
affection."

Affection, Helene; that is but a cold, a guarded word.
But how could I expect, how could I look for more ?"

"Yon shall teach me," murmured the still kneeling girl.

"Helene, love must be spontaneous; it cannot be
taught."

Would you have had me so presumptuous ? How
could I dare to believe you designed me so much
honour?"

"And is there any pleasure in the thought? Do
you, Helene, do you feel it a gratification?"

It is the greatest Heaven can bestow."

And you will be faithful to me ? And if my life
continue you will not weary?"

Never, never," murmured Helene, " never shall I
weary."

The sound of Mrs. Bird's voice made Helene suddenly
arise from her lowly attitude.

Sir Charles," exclaimed his old nurse, " you '11 take
your death o' cold if you stay in these damp rooms.
Miss Helene, my master's ordered by the doctor not
to be in the cold."

I am coming," answered he.

"Helene," continued Sir Charles, "I must obey. It
is wrong indeed for either of us to loiter longer here."

"G-o," murmured the girl, "go to the lire. I will
run up-stairs and take off my hat and my cloak."

And Helene left Sir Charles, and was presently in
the great chamber hung with chamois. She closed the
door, and mentally thanked God for the mercy He had
that day vouchsafed to show her. But, amid her
thankfulness, there was yet a pang in her heart ; and
the tears gushed forth, and they were not tears of joy.

Passion, of which she had momentarily tasted,  the
love that is born of human weakness, of human frailty, 
had lain during the bitter cruel days of adversity, had
lain in these wintry days like an adder coiled up in a
bird's deserted nest. The sun shines, the leaves unfold,
the adder awakes, glides forth perchance to sting.
And so now, when prosperity dawned on Helene, the
memory of passion blighted, passion indulged, passion
blasted almost in its birth, the memory of Tresham
clouded this hour of relief. And as the girl mentally,
silently prayed, conscience whispered, Can you marry
this man,  the man whom you have hitherto regarded
more as a parent, a protector, than a lover ?

But Helene was human, she was vain; she would
not reject, she would not mar the splendid destiny
within her grasp. She only besought her Heavenly
Father to grant her strength to resist temptation. She
besought that the memory of Tresham, henceforth a
sin, might visit her no more.

The girl rose from her lowly attitude. She rang for
warm water, she must bathe her flushed and tear-stained
face. It was growing dusk, nay, almost dark, so short
now the winter days. And when the maid had
brought the water in the ewer and left it, Helene
herself lit the tall wax candles on her toilet-table,
which Oiseau had set there as formerly. And the outdoor
clock strikes six, and Helene must dress without
delay. She had dressed standing before that same
toilet-mirror once, ay, often, full of the desire to appear
fascinating in the eyes of the nephew. She was about
to dress now, studiously, to fascinate the uncle. Scarce

scarce could she repress a fresh burst of tears as the
cruel fact thrust itself upon her. But her resolve was
taken ; she would be the most careful, the most faithful
of wives. Affection, devotion, she could give ; but, alas !
she knew too well that her heart could be given 
never.

Conscious of her own secret duplicity, the girl almost
trembled at her next encounter with her finch. She
loitered long by the wood fire burning on her hearth,
and not till Oiseau, tapping at the door, and then
coming in, said, " Excuse me, Miss Helene, but my
master is evidently uneasy you don't go to him," not
till then did she descend.

Ah ! now she enters the morning-room. How lovely
is our Helene this hour of agitation, how beautiful she
is. The changeful colour on her cheek, evidence of the
heart's disturbance ; the downcast eyes, making those
tawny lashes, tipped with jet, more marked, more
visible than usual; the air of languor, arising from
conflicting feeling ; and withal, the golden-tinted
tresses that, now she is in evening parure, may fall inrich
profusion on her uncovered shoulders,  all, all
contribute to her loveliness. And oh ! how wan, how
pale, how wasted, was he who waited to receive her !
His fine, long-shaped, Stuart-like eyes gleam out with
a deep sepulchral beauty; his cheeks are sunk, are
hollow ; his hands, his taper fingers, are unnaturally
thin and bloodless.

The girl raises her eyes ; the light of the waxen
candles falls upon him. It is manifest to her how ill
he is, and Heaven and love are in her soul.

Helene," he said, with a faint smile, " you have
been thinking this matter over. Tell me at once, and
honestly, Do you fear? Do you shrink from it?
Do not keep me in suspense."

"Have I not told you?" murmured the girl. "And
why should you doubt?"

He put his arms almost parentally around her ; he
gazed on her beauty.

Yes," he said, " it is almost cruel of me to ask such
a sacrifice. But, my love, all that can be done to
mitigate the evil shall be. Helene, I will spare no
pains, no money, to make your life tolerable."

The girl was so overpowered by his tenderness, by
his ghastly air, by a hundred memories, she could not
restrain her tears. As he held her, gently gazing still
upon her, she buried her face upon his bosom and wept.

Is this an evidence of your satisfaction, your happiness
?" he asked in tones low, hollow, almost sepulchral.

It is cruel to doubt my truth," answered Helene,
striving to be calm. " Think of all I have had to bear
in silence through these long, long months ; think of
the change to-day has brought; I can scarcely get
myself to believe it, and then, worse than all, I see
you so really ill."

Helene," answered Sir Charles, with forced calmness,
" I may recover ; it is quite possible. And if I
should," he added with a smile, " how will you bear
with my years, my infirmities ? In ten years' time I
shall be quite an old man. Your loveliness may be at
its height."

You need not fear, you need not mistrust me,"

answered the girl. " You have loved me when no
other cared for me. You withdrew your love, and I
could know no peace, no rest."

I never withdrew my love ; I but withdrew my
presence. Did you not bid me go ? Can I forget
your last words ?"

Must I entreat you to forget ? Must I beseech,
on this subject, for ever, silence V* pleaded the witching
Gipsy.

Dinner is served," at this moment announces the
poor baronet's dainty French valet, who had accompanied
his master, and who condescends, in the absence
of a butler, to do the service of the table.

Sir Charles offers the girl his arm, and together they
proceed to the dining-room.

The valet had never seen Helene before. Struck by
her singular Gipsy-like style of beauty, unconscious of
the sanctity in which his master holds her, as he
stands gazing on the twain he makes some very mistaken
reflections.

After dinner was over, and St. Louis returned to the
morning-room, where he rejoined Helene, there commenced
a discussion of rather a different character. 

What will your father say ? He will undoubtedly
object ; he will utter some sharp sarcasms ; he may
influence you ; he may induce you to repent."

"His words would have no power," said Helene,
playfully, enlivened by the dinner and the glass of
champagne she had taken with it. " I shall say,
Papa, I have quite made up my mind. 1 am determined
to be Lady Daubigny.' "

I can just imagine his laugh," continued the
sensitive baronet. "I can just imagine his sneer at
my madness, my infatuation. But something must be
done ; he must be consulted. He is a man who likes
to be treated with deference. Our position is a serious
one. His assent, nay, his presence is most desirable.
I have been thinking  " He paused, as if doubtful
whether to proceed.

Tell me what you have been thinking," murmured
the girl, kneeling down before her Saint just as she
used to do.

I have been thinking that perhaps we had better
join your father at Dessin's. My love, I dare not
linger here with you alone, lest the hideous world
make remarks ; I would not be so selfish. And,
Helene, I know not how to contemplate, much less
endure, a separation. My very life seems, as it were,
in your keeping."

The girl bent down and suffered her rosy lips to
touch her fiances wan, attenuated fingers ; then in
accents sad, yet disdainful, she said, " I have no world
but you and papa. Your world has rejected, disowned,
despised me ; I am so far beneath its notice, that
hitherto it has not even condescended to take cognisance
of my existence. But since my Heaven, my
Saint smiles upon me, the case may now be different."

Helene," said St. Louis, gazing tenderly upon
her, and smiling as he spoke, " I see before me
evidence of the Highland blood. Though your features
are so different, you remind me strangely at this
moment of your father. You must not get these

fancies into your little head. You have not been
rejected, despised by the world ; you have been
hidden from its view,  buried, as it were, like gold
in a mine."

This is the prettiest compliment man ever invented,"
cried she, with a little laugh ; but though the
girl laughed, her voice, her manner betrayed yet something
of her father's nature, and scarcely pausing, she
added, " Mais je reviens a ce que vous disiez, I want
to ask you why you came ;  why you did not write tome
first and make the visit here afterwards, when
papa had returned. If everybody in your world will
think it a wrong thing for us to be together, why
should I stay in the room this evening with you ?"

Do not be ridiculous, Helene," retorted Sir Charles,
laughing as though he wished to make it appear that
the girl spoke but in jest. " Have I for a single instant
put off my old character ? While we are thus circumstanced,
I am Charles Daubigny only in effigy. Yes,
Helene may kiss my wan fingers, and send the little
blood she has left me thrilling through my veins, and
yet I may not dare to steal from her one single kiss."
As St. Louis spoke he suffered his fine and expressive
eyes to outstrip his tongue.

You seem determined to make me wish that I had
never written to you," murmured the girl, her cheek
glowing crimson, her eyes sinking beneath the lover's
gaze he had bestowed.

What have I done ? How have I offended ?"

You are not like yourself," she murmured. " The
end of it will be that I shall feel as if you were a

stranger," and with a combination of embarrassment, of
petulance or irritability in her manner, the young lady
withdrew to the further end of the room, and taking up
a book pretended to be reading it.

Sir Charles answered nothing, for the memory of
Tresham's stolen and permitted embrace rose up before
him. Lost in the torment of his own sensibility he
remained silently, gloomily standing by the fire.

The silence that reigned, however, was not of very
long duration ; it was presently broken by the entrance
of the valet with the tea-things, and now our pretty
Gipsy must needs arise and make the tea for her
fiance. But Helene performed her part without
entering into conversation, and, the tea-things removed,
she returned to her book.

Is my happiness to be so fleeting, so short-lived ? "
at length broke from Sir Charles. " Are we at variance
already, Helene ?" The sad hollow tones of his voice
went to the girl's heart.

Not at variance," cried she, arising and coming to
him, " but indeed you have made me feel very uncomfortable.
If it is not right for me to be with you here
alone, I must be uncomfortable while you remain. If
you had never said anything about it, and if you
had seemed exactly like yourself, it would, I believe,
never have come into my head."

I never said that it was wrong ; I said that a misjudging
world might find some occasion for its venom."

"Very well. Had you not better leave me tomorrow
?" asked Helene, but her voice faltered as she
asked it.

Do you desire again to be separated from me ?
Be honest, Helene ; tell me, is it a matter of indifference
V*

It is no matter of indifference."

"Will you then suffer me to accompany you to
Calais ? Yes, if I must pass through such an ordeal,
if I must undergo the brusqueness of George's displeasure,
or submit myself to his raillery, the sooner it
is over the better. I do not much care for it myself,
but, Helene, I cannot but dread the effect his anger or
his amusement may have upon you."

Only be your own dear self," murmured the girl ;
be just what you have ever been. No words of his
shall change me."

Well, then, I promise. What shall I promise ? To
put off mortality,  to be a very Saint for ever, Helene ?
You cannot be so cruel."

The girl faintly smiled. She looked up ; she saw
such a sadness in her old lover's gaze, she was so
afraid he would suspect the truth, that she said, with
a little blush, and eyes cast down, " I did not say forever."


' AVONMORE.

"My dearest Papa,  I wrote a few words to you the
day after I came here, but I did not then mention that,
at Oiseau's urgent request, I had written the previous
day to Sir Charles. She told me that his physician
had ordered him to go abroad, and that she felt certain
if he did go, weak and ill as he was, he would never
return to England alive. Instead of answering my note
by writing, he came himself, and is now staying herewith
me, and I have something to explain which is
indeed very awkward and embarrassing. II est aussi
embarrassed que moi. But he will presently add a postscript.
I, in the meantime, must go on to tell you that
the instant he arrived at Avonmore, at least the first
instant he saw me, he said how intensely dear I was to
him, and how he wished I could be all his own. He
is sadly altered  so thin, so pale, and he has a cough,
and, that I may be privileged to comfort him and
remain always with him, I have agreed to be Lady
Daubigny.

You will perhaps think that I should have written
to you about his proposal before I accepted it; but if
you had objected ever so much, I should not have
listened.

He thinks we ought to come immediately to Calais
and beg of you to sanction our engagement. So do not
write, but keep all your anger or your laughter till once
more you embrace your loving and devoted

Helene."

Dear George,  I am quite prepared to expect your
displeasure, but I must beg that, however much startled
and annoyed you may feel by my presumption, you will
endeavour to receive me calmly. Let my very poor
state of health plead for me. If it indeed be the will
of God that my days on earth are numbered, you would
not refuse me, in the time that remains, the only happiness
I am capable of tasting. You know I could not
have this only solace unless Helene became my wife.
And you, who of late have had so much to do with my
property, must be fully aware how ample are my
means. No settlement that you think fit to dictate
(in case of my leaving her too soon) shall I shrink
from executing.

I am most anxious to have your sanction to our
engagement, and that Helene should have the protection
from remark that your presence will afford, and
I shall not fail to use my utmost exertions to reach
Calais this week. Will you kindly secure me the best
suite of rooms now at liberty ?  And believe me, your
faithful and obliged cousin,

Charles Louis Daubigny."

No greater surprise ever befell a man perhaps than
that which befell Graham as he read Helene's letter,
and afterwards that that she called its postscript.

VOL. II. B

The announcement, actually in written characters before
his eyes, yet seemed incredible, and as he pondered over
it, awoke in his mind at every moment a new, a different
sensation.

He experienced no little jealousy, for he loved
Helene as much as a father could well love a child.
Then we will not deny that he felt considerable gratification
that a man of such large estate, so unsullied a
pedigree, and of so excellent a character, should seek
the alliance. Next moment, however, came such a
sense of the ridiculous in the child, as he deemed his
daughter, taking up with a man of Charles Daubigny's
age, that he laughed outright. " And such a man, too ;
a decided invalid, full of fancies, afraid of draughts and
east winds," he murmured. "Poor little dear! she does
not know what love and marriage mean. It will be a
complete sacrifice of her young life, precisely, too, when
brighter days may be before her."

Just as Sir Charles had anticipated he would, in the
course of the day his cousin George exclaimed in his
mind, for he had no one to speak with on the subject,
The man is crazy, infatuated, in his wretched state of
debility to think of marriage at all ; and then to choose
Helene, a mere child, a beautiful child, to be his sick-nurse
! What can he say for himself ? However, of
course it is the greatest compliment he could pay her
and myself, and, as far as position, she could expect
nothing better. But, and God help us, what enmity
would the match call into existence ! What sarcasms
would be uttered ! What a searching into my and
her poor mother's too notorious history ! What

a dragging to the light all that one would wish to
remain in the dark ! Heaven avert it ! Instead of
going to her nuptials crowned with roses, as the Grecian
women of old, or crowned with orange-blossom, as the
girls go now, a crown of thorns would better befit her
childlike brow."

Leaving Graham to his unsatisfactory meditations,
we must now return to Avonmore and imagine Helene
hastily preparing for her journey to Calais. A visit to
the cottage was indispensable before their departure,
and the future Lady Daubigny, accompanied by Mrs.
Bird, went, when not expected by its inmates, to this
pretty but rustic abode. Though it was nearly ten
o'clock when they arrived, there was some difficulty in
obtaining admittance. The women either were not up
or had some visitor to dispose of. They would not
answer the bell, and when the housemaid did at length
unfasten the front door and let them in, Helene, running
hastily into the elegant little drawing-room, found
evidence of the two ladies and a friend having used it
the previous night as their own particular apartment.
The remains of a rump steak fried with onions, the
cheese, an empty beer-jug, three dirty plates, and three
empty tumblers, were standing on the rosewood table,
which was apparelled in a kitchen table-cloth.

Helene had no genius for scolding maids, and only
ran out of the room as rapidly as she had entered it,
without saying a word ; and even Mrs. Bird, who
understood the art of keeping maids in order, could
waste no time to-day in reprehending these worthies.
A more important affair was on hand that fully occupied

her mind. She had no end of arrangements to
make, directions to give, in the shortest space of time,
for Oiseau had this morning received orders to accompany
her master and his fiancee to Calais.

Sir Charles was so over anxious, so fearful of transgressing
the rules of propriety, that he had explained
to his old nurse how matters stood, and had requested
her to help him in taking charge of the little lady
during the journey. The confidence thus bestowed
quite elated the old dame, and now, as she follows
Helene up the cottage stairs to her bedroom, she is
quite cheerful, " hoping," as she says, " for the best."
Portmanteaus, carpet-bags have to be sought for, and
Mrs. Bird is presently seated on a low stool packing,
while Helene, agile as a fawn, runs hither and thither
collecting and selecting .all she means to take. Their
labour over, the girl stays a short time alone in her
bedroom. She gazes on that picture of Christ Sir
Charles had given her. She remembers how she had
knelt before it in almost despondency the day of
Tresham's marriage, and she casts herself down once
more,  now, however, in thankfulness. And yet her
heart is so full of cruel memories that she cannot restrain
a few bitter tears, wept, as it were, over the
death of her buried love. But the girl knows that
Oiseau is waiting for her, and, arising from her lowly
attitude, she leaves that rustic home, never to enter it
again.

From Avonmore to London in those days of posting
was a long journey, and to travel all night with his
little ftcmcde, even though Mrs. Bird was with them,

seemed to Sir Charles's sensitiveness scarcely the proper
thing to do. Moreover, in his present weak condition,
with so much anxiety and excitement before him, he
felt he must garner his little remaining strength, he
must travel deliberately. They had better make a
break in the journey, dine and sleep at Oxford, next
day proceed to London.

Our Helene is now in the luxurious travelling
carriage that so soon she may claim as her own. She
has an inherent taste for fine things ; it pleases her to
travel with four post-horses, she likes the obsequious
greeting that awaits them at the various inns where
they change horses. Fortune, distinction, even splendour
would not embarrass Helene, they are her natural
element.

Sir Charles had found the advantage of putting off
for the time "his mortality." As long as he maintained
his old reserve, his saint-like character, the girl
would be familiar, trusting as formerly. It was only
if by accident he forgot himself for a moment and
pressed her hand too tenderly, or gazed upon her too
ardently, that she shrank from him in alarm.

Controlled, impelled by the sensitiveness that was
ever persecuting him, Sir Charles resolved on arriving
in London with Helene and Mrs. Bird, to avoid, to
abjure for the time his own town residence. He
dreaded an encounter with his sister-in-law. He did
not, indeed, wish to meet at present even with any of
his acquaintances.

The valet, who had formerly been a courier, was

quite an fait as to securing beforehand accommodation
at a London hotel for our travellers, and to him Sir
Charles now applied. The man wrote immediately,
ordering a suite of rooms to be in readiness for his
master at the hotel.

Helene had never been in London, except when
passing through it with her father on her way to
Avonmore. She could not but feel some interest in
it, and during their uneventful journey now and then
she had asked a question of Sir Charles : " Should she
be near Westminster Abbey ? Was the hotel they
were to stay at near St. James's Palace or Whitehall ?"
At Oxford her attention was attracted by a series of
advertisements down one column of the Times which
Sir Charles was reading. Hamlet ! Hamlet ! met her
eye. Now Hamlet was Helene's favourite tragedy.

What is it, my love ?" said he, looking up from the
article he was reading.

Hamlet," cried she ; " I see they are acting Hamlet,
and that Macready, of whom I have often heard
papa speak, takes the part of my favourite. I shall
never see it acted," continued she, " because I never
can see anything."

And would you like so very much to see Hamlet ?"
asked the baronet with almost a sad smile.

What is the use of asking me ?" she cried, and
turning away, Helene carelessly hummed a part of a
song, the words of which were taken from Hamlet.

But we must not linger over the journey. It is the
morning after Sir Charles and Helene had arrived in
London. With much ado, two waiters are carrying

away the breakfast, and now even the damask tablecloth
and the two men have vanished, and St. Louis
speaks. " I shall have to pay a visit to my doctor this
morning, Helene, and afterwards I must see my lawyer.
Will you go with me in the carriage, and amuse yourself
by shopping a little while I am so engaged ? I
may make you a few trifling gifts ; we have tried that
before ; it is not forbidden ground."

I should like it, of course, very much ; but would
papa think it a wrong thing now ? You know I was
quite a little girl when we went out together at Bruges
and bought things to wear."

Ah," said he, gazing fondly upon her, " I shall
never forget that day, Helene; I remember you had
scruples then."

Well, I have now some."

"Lay them aside, my love. I am as keenly alive to
impropriety as any man ; but I am quite certain if you
take Mrs. Bird with you, and choose what you like at
a first-rate shop, there can be no sin in it. I will not
even venture to appear ; you shall drop me at the
doctor's, and call for me when your shopping is over.
My man will go with us, he is very quick in apprehension.
He will manage it all without troubling us in
the least."

And when are you going ?" inquired the girl.

Early, not later than eleven. The earlier we go the
less likely I shall be to run against any one I know ;
just now, I do not want to run against any one. I
am neither in a lit state of health, nor in exactly
a position to enter into explanations. But now, tell

me, what is it in the way of dress you would most like ?
only remember I will not be the donor of any paltry
thing."

Helene did not answer, she sat smiling.

Shall it be a velvet dress, a mantle trimmed with
fur, an Eastern shawl?"

"Oh," cried the girl, "you have, indeed, mentioned
the one thing I have been wishing for."

The shawl."

"It's a little mantle trimmed with ermine."

Well, if the fur is real, first-rate, it may do."

By eleven o'clock Helene was waiting in their
sitting-room ready, dressed for the promised drive.
Sir Charles was not with her that morning. Almost
from breakfast-time he had remained in his own room,
thinking over and arranging some matters that concerned
him deeply, and on which he was about to
consult his lawyer before he crossed to Calais.

But the carriage is at the hotel door, and St. Amour,
the valet, informs his master.

"I hope they have provided a respectable-looking
vehicle," remarked Sir Charles, for this man of wealth
to-day uses a carriage not his own, but one provided
by the hotel-keeper. We may guess why ; if any one
saw it standing at a shop or elsewhere, it would not be
recognised.

Yes, sir, pretty fair," answered the superlatively
subtle but competent valet, scarcely able, with all his
subtlety, to suppress his amusement at the idea of his
wealthy master using such small subterfuges. " Yes,
sir, pretty fair, but not quite like a carriage of our own."

Our own !" Yes, St. Amour condescended to be one
of Sir Charles's domestics, and always spoke in tins
way.

"You perfectly understand, St. Amour, all the directions
I have given you ?"

Perfectly, sir."

You will not lose sight of Miss Graham and Mrs.
Bird ; you will see them safely into Bond Street, and
wait at the door or inside the shop until they w r ant you."

Beg pardon, Sir Charles, but really further instructions
are needless ; I am not the person to fail in my
duty."

I know that, St. Amour, or I would not intrust you
with this."

Merci!" said the man, bowing, for he was of foreign
origin, and occasionally forgot himself, and spoke the
language of his childhood.

Sir Charles looked old and worn this morning ; he
had two very unpleasant businesses on hand. He
had to see his doctor, and he had to entreat him to give
his real opinion as to his state of health. He had also
to see his lawyer on an equally grave matter.

Helene remarked to her Saint, as they were about
to enter the carriage, " Ought you to go out, do you
think ? It is very cold, and you do not look quite sow
r ell to-day."

My dear child " (he often now called her a child),
my dear child, I have a very great dislike to seeing
my doctor ; it always makes me nervous."

And must you see him ? "

Yes ; it is a penance I feel I ought to, I must,

undergo ; besides, he may wish to alter my prescription,
or give me further directions."

Helene had gazed on Sir Charles, and had thought
that he looked worse than usual. He gazed on the
girl, and thought that she looked almost too lovely,
especially for the London streets. They were presently
before the house of the eminent physician who
prescribed for and advised our invalid baronet. Asher
fiance got out of the carriage, and waited till a
servant opened the house door, Helene thought he did
indeed appear as though he needed a doctor. Even
his lips looked bloodless, and his very voice seemed
feeble.

Monsieur St. Amour shuts the carriage door, and
deferentially bowing to the girl, says that his master
has given him directions. In obedience to those directions,
Monsieur orders the coachman to Bond Street.
Helene enters the shop, Mrs. Bird following as her
attendant. The young girl asks for mantles trimmed
with fur, whereupon she is conducted up stairs, shown
into a room, where so many fine things are around
her she is almost bewildered.

It must be a very good one," says Helene ; " the
fur must be of the best kind." The nymph in attendance
now brings forth a splendid specimen or two, the
first a velvet mantle trimmed with sable, the next a
ruby satin trimmed with ermine.

The girl, having naturally such a love of dress,
would, had she felt justified, have carried off the two.
She asks the price of the first. She is quite startled
when the answer is forty guineas.

And what is the other?" inquires Helene.
It is much less, Miss, twenty guineas."
I must have that," she said ; " I should not like to
3 more."
Mrs. Bird, on hearing the girl's words, ventured an

> Co

aside. Drawing the attendant nymph a little apart, she
said, almost in a whisper, " Your house, I know, supplies
my master with his table linen and other things
of that sort. My master is Sir Charles Daubigny of
Breton Street and Brierly Park."

Yes, indeed," answered the nymph.

It is he who ordered me to bring the young lady
here. It will be his gift. I am housekeeper at one of
Sir Charles's country seats. We are staying at Mivart's
Hotel for a few days. You had better send both the
mantles and the sable muff ; they are sure to be kept."

The young lady of the mantle department nodded
her head, and smiled knowingly.

Helene in this brief interval had been 'so amused
gazing on the various treasures of dress that met her
eye, she had not heard a syllable of Mrs. Bird's
discourse.

Allow me," said the mantle-nymph, " allow me,
Miss, to put up the two mantles. You can choose
better, perhaps, at your leisure."

The girl for a moment hesitated ; but on Mrs. Bird's
remarking that would be better, as they were rather ina
hurry, she assented.

The mantles and the muff, packed in a box, were
presently ready, and were carried by the porter to the
front entrance of the shop. There was not the slightest

difficulty. True to his word, Monsieur St. Amour
presented himself precisely when he was required,
indicated to the porter which was their carriage, puts
Helene and Mrs. Bird in after the parcel, and directs
the driver to return to the doctor's. Arrived there, the
valet knocks at the door, bids the servant who opens
it inform Sir Charles Daubigny that the carriage waits.

Very soon the invalid appears. He looks more
cheerful ; he is evidently less nervous. His physician
thought that he had gained strength,  that there was
no positive disease ; and when the carriage drew up
before his lawyer's, he did not seem the same feeble
man Helene had watched enter the doctor's.

At the lawyer's they had long to wait  fully three-quarters
of an hour. Once or twice, growing a little
weary, Helene looked out of the carriage window. The
second time she did so she could see Monsieur the
valet some way down the street in conversation with
another man. It struck her, but it could not be probable,
yet a little thrill ran through her ; she fancied
this person the valet spoke with was Tresham.

When Sir Charles returned he was grave and silent,
and almost in silence they reached the hotel.

On re-entering their hotel, Sir Charles, with some
papers in his hand, went straight to his bedroom.
Helene also went to her room to divest herself of her
out door garments, to recall the vision of Tresham she
fancied she had seen, to conclude at length it was a
mere imagination. And having dismissed or suppressed
the idea, she finished by opening the box
containing the two mantles.

"What loves!" murmured the girl, and each was
tried on. How hard to be obliged to relinquish either !
The velvet one trimmed with sable would be so delightful
for out door wear. The ruby satin, if she ever
should require such a thing, would be so charming as an
opera cloak. Well, at luncheon-time, when Sir Charles
and she were sure to meet, she would show him the
mantles, and ask which she should keep.

And luncheon-time was very near, for the invalid
must not go too long without nourishment. Eating and
drinking had been particularly recommended. Helene
goes down at the right moment, takes her place at the
table, but will not allude to the mantles, will not bring
forward any subject of conversation till she sees her
companion has made some progress with the cold

chicken and tongue before him. She knew if she were
to interrupt him he would forget to eat. But ere long
he interrupts her.

I think, my dear child, I shall be able to gratify
one of your wishes. I believe you will be, that is I
hope you will be, able to see Hamlet performed this
-evening. It all depends on whether we can get a
private box on such short notice. I have an appointment
with my lawyer at half-past seven this evening.
Some business I have to attend to, Helene, that does not
admit even of your presence. And as I could not be
with you, and knew your desire, I asked my lawyer
boldly whether his lady would chaperon you to the
theatre to-night to see Hamlet."

Contrary to her Saint's expectations, Helene neither
thanked him nor looked pleased ; she looked disconcerted.


"Have I done wrong?" he asked ; then after a
moment's pause he added playfully, " There is nothing
to shock George's prejudices in this lady, I assure you.
Although her husband is but a solicitor, she has a pedigree
extending to the days of the Britons. She is one
of the eight children of the Honourable and Reverend
Hotel Winston, a Welsh parson, as poor as he is
proud."

I wish you would leave off laughing at papa,"
said the girl. " And for myself, I was only thinking at
first that I did not care to see the play alone without
you. But now you have told me who these people are,
I have another, a disagreeable, uncomfortable thought.
If this woman, whose father is so proud, should find out

that I am only the daughter of Mr. Graham, your
steward at Avonmore, how little she would ]ike to be
my chaperon to-night !"

My love," retorted Sir Charles, indulging in another
smile, " you need be under no apprehension. Mr. Hole
my solicitor, happens to know almost as much of
your father's history as myself. He is perfectly aware
that my steward is a very fine gentleman in disguise."

Have you told him all about papa, then V

No ; to my great astonishment I find that George
is at his peerage case again. A friend of my solicitor's,
a barrister, who devotes himself to these cases, has to
revise the evidence. I was sorry to hear it. I had
hoped that when the old aunt was gone, George would
have settled down for the rest of his days in peace,
instead of, like a child, trying to catch a bubble it has
blown itself."

You always laugh at papa," remarks Helene, her
cheeks glowing brighter. " He thinks that he has as
good a right to this title as you have to yours."

"And do you think, my dear child, if once it had
been decided by competent judges that I had no right
to be a baronet, do you think I should come again before
the world urging my claim, wasting my time, my
money, involving myself in needless anxiety ?"

He has some evidence that formerly was wanting,"
pleaded Helene.

Well, we must leave him to pursue his own course.
But tell me, are all your scruples, your imaginations
removed as to the steward ?"

Yes, I am satisfied," said Helene drearily ; " but if

I had heard, if you had mentioned about the play tome,
I should have begged you to have let me stay in
my own room all the evening. To see Hamlet alone,
without you, is but a dismal affair."

You are very kind, very good to say this, but it
cannot now be undone. I have mentioned the plan to
Mr. Holroyd. I have despatched St. Amour to take the
box ; and, if successful, he is to call and apprise my
lawyer. Make yourself quite easy, my love," he continued,
noticing that still Helene's features wore a little
cloud. " Mrs. Holroyd has lived almost as secluded a
life as yourself. She is one of eight children; her
father, however self-important, has had scarcely the
means of mixing in society of his own rank, and therefore
mixed with none. She is the eldest daughter, and
had lived unnoticed and unmoved, till my solicitor, a
man as old as myself, accidentally fell in with her.
About a year and a half ago they were married ; and I
really believe she sees as little in the way of gaiety now
as when she lived on the borders of Wales, for her
husband has a practice too large for any one man. He
can spare no time for diversion. Then, Helene, the
lady deems herself under some obligation to me. Her
brother, lately but an ill-paid curate, has now a living.
I bestowed it upon him at the request of Holroyd.
Miss Winston is staying with them, Mrs. Holroyd's
youngest sister. Holroyd assured me that to see
Hamlet performed, and by Macready, would indeed be
quite a treat to his wife, and that his little sister-in-law
would be delighted."

Helene was now more at her ease. But, looking up,

she saw that Sir Charles had forgotten to finish his
chicken. " I promise you to be quite happy now,"
she said, laughing, " if you will but eat your luncheon.
See, you have left half of it, and do please have another
glass of wine."

Reassured as to his little lady's contentment, her
Saint took again to his knife and fork, and suffered
Helene to persuade him into taking another glass of
wine.

The mantles were next discussed, and presently the
girl brought them down. It is almost needless to add
that St. Louis prevailed on Helene to accept the two,
as well as the sable muff. And gaily or cheerfully he
congratulated his beloved on having " such a nice warm
thing to go to the play in to-night."

VOL. 11.

Have I been so fortunate in portraying Helene that
she has become a thing of life, a reality ? If so, the
boy or girl who bends over these pages will behold her,
as I do now, dressing for the play. She stands before
the cheval-glass in the bedroom of the hotel, gazing
upon herself to see that all is right before Oiseau shall
presently cast over her the ruby and ermine mantle.
Her dress is of white muslin, looped up with knots of
pale blue and crimson ribbon  looped up enough to
show the petticoat beneath. A petticoat of very light
blue silk it is, trimmed with fine old lace (Helene had
inherited from her poor vain mother a passion for lace,
and from her ' own babyhood had loved azure blue).
The sleeves of the dress, as was then the fashion, w r ere
very short, and the bodice of the dress very low, consequently
in the reflection of herself the girl now
gazed upon, the shoulders, the arms, the bosom, were
left partially visible. Most people think that a
woman's beauty depends in a great measure on the
fairness of her complexion. A beauty should be white
as snow, pink as a rose-leaf. If such be the case  if
such delicate tints are essential to constitute beauty 
then Helene had no beauty at alL Her skin, as we

have said before, was of a dark creamy hue, telling
almost of the Gipsy. Her hair, is it auburn ? Is it
dark brown tinted with gold ? Whatever it is, it is
perfect. A part of it to-night is coiled around her
head, and yet, in its abundance, rich silky tresses fall
upon her shoulders. Her lips, bright as red rosebuds,
a little parted, show her pearly teeth. Her Gipsy nose
is growing somewhat more Grecian, her deep blue eyes
are still the eyes of her lovely childhood. She stoops
down to put on her small black satin shoes, ties the
sandals round her ankles, for in the far-off clays of
which I write, people wore black satin shoes and sandals.
And now she draws on her long buttonless kid gloves,
for these also at that time were in vogue. Oiseau
casts over the girl the mantle which she has been warming
at the fire, and Helene descends to her Saint.

She finds that she will have to wait ten minutes at
least, or a quarter of an hour. The cautious invalid
thinks she had better lay aside her mantle until the
carriage containing her chaperon is announced. So she
lays it aside, and Sir Charles gazes on his treasure,
and feels almost tempted to take up the mortality he
has been so carefully suppressing, the mortality he had
promised to forego. He feels as he gazes on the girl
almost inclined to venture on a lover's kiss. Yet he
resists, she is so sweet, so relying, so trustful ; she
reminds him in her grace and her playfulness of a
half-tamed fawn. He will not startle her. She asks
him to see if the velvet round her neck, to which a
locket is attached, is tied in a safe bow. Scarcely had
she asked him, however, when a little thrill of pain

runs through her. She remembers how once such a
bow came undone and her locket fell off.

But the carriage arrives, is announced. Mr. Hole
steps out, is introduced by Sir Charles to the
girl, then takes her to his wife. Monsieur St. Amour
mounts the box beside the coachman. Monsieur is to
be care-taker to-night. Sir Charles has directed him
to arrange and to manage everything for the ladies.

Helene found her two female companions very
different from what she had expected to find them. In
the little while it took to drive from the hotel to the
theatre, they talked enough and in a style to make her
feel they were anything but alarming.

The young unmarried sister was remarkably talkative,
and Helene thought not over wise. Mrs. Holroyd
had never been at Drury Lane, Covent Garden, or any
smaller theatre. Three times she had been at the
Italian Opera House. Miss Carry, the young sister,
had never yet been to any place of public amusement.
Helene confessed her own ignorance and inexperience.

I think, then," cried Miss Carry, laughing, " I think
we may christen ourselves 'The Three Innocents.'
Happily we are expecting to be joined by one of our
race who is quite a different creature. Miss Graham,
we have asked our brother Geoff to come."

Hereupon Mrs. Holroyd explained that their brother
Geoffrey was just now staying in London, at the house
of their uncle, Lord St. Donats. Geoff had but three
days more of liberty, he must then set out to rejoin
his regiment in Ireland. " I told Mr. Holroyd," continued
the lady, laughing, " that I did not quite fancy

the idea of we three poor unprotected females going to
the play alone, and asked him to send a note to Geoff
to beg that he would join us at the theatre. But
whether he will be willing to come, or whether he will
be able, remains to be seen."

Oh, Miss Graham," cries Carry presently, " do
you know, I have been brought up in such a horrid
prim way that I have never even been allowed to read
a play. So, of course, I know nothing about Hamlet.
When we get to the theatre will you tell me a little
about it ? You don't know what it is to be the
daughter of a country parson. I declare, sometimes I
quite long to be a little wicked, just for a change. We
have church, church, church, prayers, sermons, prayers
again, till I declare one repeats one's prayers like a
parrot, without knowing what one is saying."

Helene could not help laughing at the girl's crazy
outbreak of nature, but Mrs. Holroyd seemed rather
aghast at her sister's candour. " Carry," she said,
you should not talk in this wild way. People will
think that you really mean what you say."

Mean it ! and so I do," cried the girl, laughing.
It 's all very well for you, Selina, who are emancipated,
to try and preach me into order. But you know
well enough that long and long before Mr. Holroyd
carried you off you were aweary, aweary."

The carriage by this time was at the theatre. Monsieur
St. Amour, the very pink of politeness and propriety,
conducts the ladies admirably to the private
box he had secured ; begs with many bows to assure
them how observant he shall be of his master's orders.

He shall sit just below in the pit, even within call.
He shall tap at the box door between every act, and
inquire if he can be of any service.

As the valet withdrew, Carry laughed at his pomposity
and his politeness, next minute settles herself
down beside Helene to listen to the story of Hamlet.

The curtain rises, the two girls are charmed as very
children might be with the spectacle before them.
Carry forgets to talk nonsense, Helene is quite absorbed.
Mrs. Holroyd, older and with but little sensibility, gazes
sometimes at the actors, sometimes at the spectators.

Brother Geoff enters the box just after the first
ghost scene. Monsieur St. Amour, a few minutes
after, opens the box door also, looking rather puzzled.
Mrs. Holroyd explains to the valet that it is all
right, the intruder is her brother. Monsieur retires
bowing.

And so you did manage to spare us this one evening,
Geoff?" cries Carry, on seeing the young fellow.
I thought you would grudge giving it to us, especially
as you have only three evenings now."

Grudge giving it to you ? " answers Geoff, gazing on
the fair stranger ; " by Jove, I 'm only too happy."

I know you don't care for tragedies, and have seen
this."

That doesn't signify (in a loud whisper) when
there's such a charming alternative."

Hush, Geoff," says Mrs. Holroyd in quite a whisper,
and pressing her hand on his, " remember, you must
not talk nonsense."

The young fellow knew by his sister's manner that

he must restrain his tongue. Nevertheless, his eyes
were constantly turned on Helene, who herself was so
much charmed with the play she scarcely noticed the
boy at all. Boy he really was, only eighteen.

Under Mrs. Holroyd's supervision matters went on,
we may say, very satisfactorily. The silence, or partial
silence, expected to be maintained on such an occasion,
was indeed from time to time broken by a little
nonsense and laughter passing betwixt the giddy Carry
and the cornet of dragoons, and now and then he
could not resist the pleasure of paying some compliment
to Helene, who, however, continued to be so
absorbed in witnessing the representation of her
favourite tragedy, she had neither eyes nor ears for
anything else. Yet, before the play was over, Helene's
attention was destined to be distracted from it by an
apparition fully as startling to her as the ghost of his
father had been to the Prince of Denmark.

The fifth act of the play had been reached wherein
is the funeral of Ophelia. The queen, scattering
flowers, was saying, " I hoped thou shouldst have been
my Hamlet's wife," when suddenly Helene heard a
step, a movement close behind her chair, heard the
word " Helene" pronounced slowly, sadly. She knew
the voice ; she started, she rose from her seat, turned
round, and encountered the gaze of Tresham.

Pale as a visitant from another world, yet with a
sad smile upon his lips, he stood before her. Surprised,
nay, amazed, bewildered, the girl exclaimed, or rather
murmured, in the language of her childhood, " D'ou
vient que vous eyes ici ? J'ai peine a le croire."

"II n'y a point de remedy," he answered. "Helene,
une seule mot."

Pas un mot," she cried, in a voice low but full of
agitation. " Pas un mot. Laissez-moi en repos."

Eh bien," he murmured, then added in English, for
he was no adept in French, u If I may not stay, you
cannot refuse at least to shake hands with me, and say
God help you."

The girl did not hold out her hand, but she suffered
him to take the hand that held her mantle, which now
was rather folded around her than on her shoulders,
for the heat of the crowded theatre had been oppressive.
He took the hand. She let go the mantle for the
moment, and received a pressure expressive of the
warmest feeling. This was not all. With that dexterity
and subtlety which was a part of Tresham's
nature, he contrived to leave a miniature package in the
palm of her hand. She might, if she had been so disposed,
have dropped it. She might have cast it away
in scorn. She did neither. As he quitted the box she
stooped as though to gather up her falling mantle, and
concealed the package adroitly as he had given it.

He was gone, and she tried to be calm ; but the surprise,
the shock to her sensibility had been so great, it
was some time before she recovered. She sank down
in the chair from which he had arisen, leaning her
elbow on the cushioned rail of the box, and shading
her eyes with her hand; her heart beat quick, she
trembled, she was almost on the verge of fainting. Oh
that she were alone ! Oh that she might have dared to
shed a few bitter tears over as it were the resurrection

of the dead ! But conscious that the eyes of her companions
were upon her, conscious that the cornet of
dragoons especially was using his, she strove to master
her emotion

To the remainder of the play Helene could give no
sort of attention. She was greatly troubled,  troubled
to think of the ill impression the two ladies and the
young officer of dragoons would probably carry away
of her. She was greatly disturbed at the idea of having
to disclose to Sir Charles on her return the misadventure
which had befallen her. She was perhaps troubled
more for Tresham's sake than for her own, for she felt
certain that the jealous uncle would never believe that
mere accident had brought his nephew before her.
He will, he must acquit me of design, mused the girl,
for he knows how little I wished to go, but he will see
design elsewhere.

Carry and her brother laughed and chatted incessantly
together during the drive from the theatre to
the hotel ; but Mrs. Holroyd was very silent, Helene
still more so. On leaving the carriage, however,
Helene felt that she must thank Mrs. Holroyd for her
kindness in having accompanied her, but she thought
there was a coldness, a degree of hauteur in Mrs.
Holroycl's manner, and a repelling frigidity in the few
words she condescended to utter in reply. This, change
of manner in her chaperon sent a thrill of pain through
the young girl's heart. She had given no explanation
of Tresham's appearance and her own agitation. She
felt but too certain Mrs. Holroyd's mind was full of
doubt and suspicion.

Helene found Sir Charles awaiting her return in
their saloon, with tea, coffee, biscuits, and cakes on the
table, and he seemed so cheerful she quite shuddered
at the task before her. She quite trembled at the idea
of having to relate a piece of news that would assuredly
cause doubt and depression.

I will just go to my room for a moment," cries
Helene, " and then come and have some coffee." How
sped she up the stairs ! How flew the little sinner
to her mother's jewel-box, there safely to deposit the
miniature package a yet greater sinner had so adroitly
conveyed to her. No human eye had seen Helene
receive this tiny package, no human eye beheld her
now lock it up. She puts the key into her pocket and
comes down.

"I hope you have enjoyed the play," cries Sir Charles;
but indeed, Helene, you look very pale. Are you cold ?"

Not cold," said the girl sadly, "but something has
happened which has disturbed me very much."

"What, in God's name; tell me!" hurriedly he
asked, for he saw by the girl's increasing agitation that
something very unpleasant must have occurred.

"All went on smoothly enough," pursued Helene,
until that part of the play where Ophelia is brought
to the grave. I was watching the scene with the
greatest interest, when, hearing my name repeated by
some one close behind my chair, I turned round ; your
nephew stood before me."

"Damnation!" cried Sir Charles, forgetful of his
Christianity, and growing pale himself with jealous
rage. " And what next, may I ask, Miss Graham ? "

I was so flurried, so amazed, so bewildered, I
scarcely know what I said, but I believe I asked him
how he came to be there, and told him I could scarcely
have imagined it possible."

There was quite a scene, then, before my lawyer's
wife ?" exclaimed the sensitive man.

No," answered Helene, in trembling accents ; " no
scene. I spoke as low as I could, and I spoke in
French. He answered me the same."

And what did he dare to say ? " inquired Sir
Charles.

He wanted to speak to me : ' Only one word,' he
said. He pleaded for only that. I replied, ' Not one
word,' and bade him leave me, and he went."

And this is all, Helene ?"

All that he said," answered the girl, " word for
word. He left directly, but it quite spoilt my evening ;
and though there was no scene exactly, I am afraid
that Mrs. Holroyd thought it very strange."

Why did you speak in French, Helene ?" asked her
suspicious lover, gazing intently upon her.

I really cannot tell. I hardly knew what I did or
said."

"It is an unaccountable affair," cries Sir Charles,
and requires investigation. I shall speak to St.
Amour to-night."

You will at least acquit me," cried Helene, terrified
by the stern beauty that lit up her Saint's features, ashe
paced the room evidently in great anguish of mind.
He seemed to her quite a different person from his usual
self. His figure was more erect, his eyes, from the

pupils being dilated by excitement, appeared to be
darker and more beautifully expressive ; his very nostrils,
so delicately arched, gave token of defiance.

Helene," he presently said, pausing in his troubled
walk, and fixing those eyes of glory on her, " you say
you have told me all that passed. I must endeavour
to believe you speak the truth. But remember, if you
have suppressed one word, concealed one action, one
movement, one fact, there is a God above us who will
not be mocked. At this minute your heart is visible
to Him."

Indeed," cried the girl, bursting into tears, " I could
not have been ruder or more peremptory. If I had
had time for consideration, I do not think I could have
spoken so harshly as I did."

She rose and cast her Gipsy arms around the jealous
man. She implored him to believe her. Thus imprisoned,
he could not but gaze on her loveliness.

Give me one kind kiss," she said, " and say you do
not doubt me."

"Child," he said, in accents hoarse with sorrow,
you regard me, I see, bat as a parent. The kiss you
ask for is such a kiss as you would ask of your father
in token of reconciliation if you had vexed him. Mine
could be no mere kiss of peace. I am not quite a
Stoic." As he stood still imprisoned by the girl's arms,
as he stood gazing down upon her in her parure, she
saw such a wild passion of beauty lighting up his
wan features, that years, time, debility, seemed to be
expunged.

Hear me," she cried, thinking to soothe his anger,

thinking to lull his suspicions, " I do not indeed regard
you with such a cold affection."

I do not believe you," cried he. " You could not
bid me kiss you in that cool, unconcerned way if you
cared for me."

I had better go," retorted Helene ; " I had better
leave you at once. Every word I utter you but misconstrue."


Go," answered he ; " but remember, thought is sin
in the eyes of God. Eemember, without uttering a
word, without performing the slightest action, if your
mind, your heart is full of him, you sin against me,
you sin in the sight of Heaven. Do you hear me,
Helene?"

The trembling girl could scarce hold in her hand
the light she had lit. Conscience-stricken, she hastily
quitted the saloon, ascended the stairs, and was presently
in her bedroom. She found Mrs. Bird already
there waiting to help her take off the pretty dress we
have described. How gladly could she have dispensed
with the old dame's attentions ! How slow, how tedious
she seemed ; but at length even the wax lights are
extinguished, the night light placed, and Oiseau departs.
Helene fastens her bedroom door, delights one of the
just extinguished candles, takes the key of her mother's
jewel-box from her pocket, and with a throbbing heart
unlocks it. There lies the miniature package he had
given. It had been sin to receive it, she felt it was yet
greater sin to open it. Nevertheless, yet she broke
the seal. The paper that was thus sealed she saw was
covered inside with writing, and fell out a locket of the

smallest dimensions. This for the moment was disregarded.
The words, the words, the sinner's words her
eyes devour. They tell a piteous tale. His marriage
had been a marriage of compulsion  a mere commercial
bargain. He could never regard it in any other light.

My soul," he wrote, " my soul at least is free, and
confesses not the bondage of the law. The day you
granted me that fond embrace, Helene, that was my
bridal day, the seat amid the rocks our altar, God
the witness of our union. To me that little rocky
nook is sacred. There would I have my grave. The
plashing waterfall hard by, more constant than thyself,
shall never cease bemoan my wretched destiny. The
locket that, if possible, I shall place in your hand tonight,
has journeyed with me now through many weary
months. Keep it, Helene, for my sake. It is fitting
emblem of my heart's torture. Open it, thou wilt find
graven within the date of that day, by me never to be
forgotten."

The exquisitely wrought miniature locket Tresham
had, as we have seen, so adroitly conveyed to Helene's
hand, was in the form of a little golden heart, round
which writhed and coiled a serpent. On opening the
heart, was seen graven within the date of the day he
alluded to. As the girl gazed upon this token of the
sinner's passion, it seemed indeed to recall to her the
serpent tempting Eve. Every instant as she gazed
she shuddered. In her superstitious terror she thought
she should hear presently, perhaps, the voice of an
avenging angel.

Go," she said, and her tears fell fast upon the

written paper in which it had been enclosed. " Go,
tempter ; let mine eyes never see thee more. I am his,
only his, and the thought of Tresham now is sin."

Scarce dared she touch the locket. Casting it into a
secret drawer in the old-fashioned jewel-box, and then
resolutely placing the written paper upon it, she pushed
to the drawer, closed the lid of the box, and thus
buried both from her sight. Long the girl wandered
up and down her room, striving but vainly to reconcile
herself to the sin of suppression, of which she had been
guilty. "Oh!" mused she, "how unworthy I am of
such a destiny as God sets before me, and how utterly
unworthy of the man through whom He deigns to send
it ! I will deceive him no more. I will be his, wholly
his." And musing thus, trying to glean comfort from
a determination to do right in the future, the girl went
to bed, and, strangely enough, dreamt not of Tresham
but of his uncle.

The next morning w T hen Oiseau came to Helene's
room, she told her that Sir Charles had had a wretched
night from intense headache. He had rang his bell
early for Monsieur St. Amour, and had ordered him to
desire Mrs. Bird to make him some tea.

I took it to him, my dear, before he was up," said
Oiseau. " Oh," Miss Helene, continued the old dame,
what a night he must have had ! He looked haggard
and old. From something I overheard last night 'twixt
my master and Mr. St. Amour, I 'm afraid, Miss Helene,
he 's been upset in his mind. I could hear my master
asking questions about the play and about Mr.

Tresham, and afterward I spoke to Mr. St. Amour and
found how it had been. My dear young lady, you
don't, I 'in sure, you don't encourage Mr. Tresham ? "

How could you ever suppose such a thing of me ? "
cries Helene a little haughtily.

"Well, my dear, I hope and trust not, but when
there 's once been a feeling' between young folks  "

Helene coloured. "How could Mrs. Bird know?"
she mused. " I have never seen him," she answered,
never have had any communication with him since
he left Avonmore until last night, and then I sent him
from me instantly."

"Yes, that's it, his coming stealthy-like," continued
the old nurse, as if thinking aloud. " That 's
what distressed him. Oh, Miss Helene, you '11 forgive
an old servant for speaking, won't you ?"

Say what you like."

Well, my dear, it strikes me that my master thinks
you don't like him, love him enough."

Then you are quite wrong ; Sir Charles could not
be dearer to me."

Well, he 's a little in years, and what I think is,
that you don't feel exact the sort of love that would
satisfy my master."

What would he have ?" cries Helene, attempting a
laugh.

Shall I give you a hint, Miss Helene, if you don't
feel it quite ? Can't you seem to ? Oh, his poor life
hangs on you ; my dear, a little more warmth."

What would you have me do ?" cries Helene, really
laughing.

"Oh, when it comes fro' the heart, Miss Helene,
there 's no need 0' teaching'. But I 'm sadly afraid my
poor master thinks he hasn't that. I know you love
him, some ways, but it 's only one way he wants."

"Well," cried Helene, laughing and blushing, "he
shall have it all his own way. Oiseau," the girl
added, " tell me, are you a witch ?"

Not quite that neither," cries the old dame, laughing
herself, " not quite that. I '11 whisper but one
word more and be gone. If you don't quite feel it,
feign it, Miss Helene. Let his poor heart have peace."
Oiseau was going.

Stay, Mrs. Bird," cries Helene, "just for a moment.
Do you think that Sir Charles has an idea that Mr.
Daubigny knew I should be at the play ? "

He 's sore perplexed, that my poor old ears could
glean ; and, 'twixt you and me, I believe a certain
Monsieur was at the bottom of it. He 's always been
very partial." She paused.

To Tresham ?" asked Helene.

The old dame, with a knowing look, nodded her
head, then presently added, " Oh, it' s a sad, sad world,
Miss Helene. How few of them that's in it have
hearts that 'ud bear the light o' day! My poor
master ! "

Helene herself felt somewhat conscience-stricken,
but it was time she went down, and musing as she
went over Oiseau's hints and words, she reached the
empty saloon.

The girl was thinking it was very dismal to be alone,
when her solitude was broken by the unexpected and

VOL. II. D

undesired presence of Monsieur St. Amour. Advancing
towards her, and profoundly bowing, he asked,
Has Mademoiselle any commands ce matin ? Je
men vais tout a heure to order some physique for Sir
Charles. He bade me inquire if I could bring anything
for Mademoiselle ? "

The girl considered a moment, and then said, with a
smile, " I do want something, two rather curious things,
though, to ask you to get, but it does not matter.
Bring me then two very nice small tooth-brushes and
two packages of powder."

Monsieur drew from his pocket a very small ,
and was about to write down in it
Helene's commands. Looking up first, however, he
asked, " Poudre pour les dents, Mademoiselle ?"

Oh no !" cries Helene, smiling, " I never use tooth-powder.
What I want is powder to powder myself
with,  poudre de enter. They call it violet powder,
I think."

Ah, oui, Mademoiselle, to use with little pouf," he
said, smiling.

Helene did not quite like the man's smile. " I want
the powder," she said, " to powder my feet with every
morning after I have washed them, for fear of having
chilblains."

Mademoiselle fear the chaplain. No, no," shaking
his head, " Mademoiselle's blood too warm, too good."

Oh," cries the girl, " mais j'ai beaucoup de froid
aux pieds,  I am a very cold creature ; and in the
summer je me mets toujours au rayons de soleil,  I
love to bask in the sun'

That," mused the man as he gazed on her, " is why-she
has ripened so early, like abricot contre muraille."
But this thought he did not dare to utter, and said,
"Mademoiselle know my language?" accompanying
his words with another respectful inclination of his
important head.

I know it," said the girl, " but yet though I speak
it, 'tis not well. My bonne was provincial, and my
nursery-governess too.

Comment," mused the man, " the daughter of my
master's steward, nay, his bailiff, with bonne and
governess !"

Pardon," he said, " mais Mademoiselle is of this
country ? "

I am an English girl, yes ; but I was born in
France."

May I ask where, Mademoiselle ? My country is
dear to me. Anything that saw de light first there."
He bowed with even deeper respect, and paused for
an answer.

The thoughtless girl found her loquacity had brought
her into an awkward predicament. She really did not
know in what part of France she had first seen the
light. The place of her birth was in Graham's mind
too sad a spot for him ever to allude to.

I cannot tell you exactly," she said with a sigh,
and turning away, for the memory of her mother's fault
rose up before her. We say she turned away,  she
wished to terminate the discourse.

"Attendez, Mademoiselle, une seule moment, s'il
vous plait," says the valet, following her. " Dites-moi,

is there noting else I can have the honour to do for
Mademoiselle, no petit billet, no little message ?"

No, there is nothing you can do, rien du tout,"
answers Helene.

The man stood a moment. " Has Mademoiselle
remembered well? Demain matin nous partons.
Peut-etre le jour suivant nous sommes en la belle
France."

To-day Sir Charles was peculiarly unfortunate in
regard to his headache. Just as it was subsiding, and
he thought of coming down to luncheon, one of Mr.
Holroyd's clerks had called to deliver to him some
papers of importance. He was also the bearer of a
letter which required an immediate answer. Yes, a
letter must be written in reply while the clerk waited,
and the united efforts of thinking and writing brought
back a return of suffering so acute, that our poor
master was compelled to remain during the whole of
the afternoon silent and inactive.

Helene then saw nothing of Sir Charles till just
before dinner-time, when he appeared, saying he was
better, but still looking sadly pale and worn out. She
was relieved, however, on hearing from his own lips
that the torturing pain alone had kept him away from
her, for the girl had grown somewhat apprehensive as
the day had worn on and she had seen nothing of him,
lest the anger, the suspicion of last night still filled or
lingered in his mind. It grieved her now to see him
so pale, so wan; and his tenderness and his self-condemnation
went to her heart.

I believe," he said, " I was very unkind, very

unjust last night. Do you forgive me, Helene ?" He
was sitting on the sofa as he spoke, and the girl
came and knelt down before him, taking his thin
wan hand in hers, but she really scarce knew how to
reply, for she knew how much more angry he had
been, she knew how shocked he had been, could he
have beheld her, after they had parted, reading the
note Tresham, with so much subtlety, had conveyed,
and she, with so much craft, had concealed.

You do not answer," he continued. " Was I so
very unkind ? Ah, my dear child, if I loved you less
I should be more reasonable."

It was the surprise," she murmured, not daring to
raise her eyes. " You had no time to consider, but now
you are quite reassured ? You are quite certain / was
not to blame ?"

Quite reassured," he said, " in one respect ; quite
certain, Helene, there was no design on your part. Butin
his case I cannot be deceived. Mere accident never
brought him before you. My apprehensions, my dread
of the wretched boy cannot be defined, they are too
great, too various. Every way he is wrong. And
now, from what occurred last night, 'tis quite evident
to me that the marriage I contemplated with so much
hope has been useless. I have already been made a
dupe of as far as money is concerned. I might have
spared myself the trouble, the waste, of helping on the
match that way. However, the waste of money is
nothing in comparison of other injuries, by his subtlety,
his want of principle, his unblushing audacity, he may
yet inflict, or endeavour to inflict. Give him but the

opportunity, and he will not fail to seek to victimise
me in a more cruel, a more sinister fashion. He would
endeavour, my dear child, I know that he would
endeavour to rob me of your tenderness, he would
strive to make you subtle as himself. I cannot be a
spy. I cannot keep you a prisoner," continued Sir
Charles with a smile, or an attempt at one. " He may
throw himself in your path often, Helene. Will your
reason hold out against his flattery ? And ah ! in one
so young, reason may be off her guard. You may err
in these moments  err without intention. Oh, my
love, how was I tortured as I lay awake last night !
I knew the temptation you had undergone, and I said
to myself, At least in her dreams she will sin against
me. Tell me, Helene, was not I in the visions of the
night obliterated, annihilated?"

How thankful was Helene to be able to give with
truth sweet assurance to the contrary. " Au contraire,"
murmured the girl, " I dreamt only of you, un tel
rev. Ah, oui, it lingers yet."

What was your dream ? " asked he, bending down
and gazing upon her with the eyes that even illness
could not dim.

"I dreamt that you had grown quite well, quite
young ; but first I dreamt that I was lying on a
cushion, and that you woke me with a kiss."

Ha, woke you out of your sleep ? "

Yes ; and the kiss did not startle me, but seemed
to soothe me into a kind of dreamy delight."

"And did it seem to be the kiss of a Saint that I
gave you ? "

No," said the girl with downcast eyes, " you did
not remind me of a Saint."

A mummy, Helene, perhaps ?"
" No, you were quite alive ; you seemed younger
than you are, tout jeune et atonement de sante\"

"Perhaps you dreamt that another being was invested
in my form, and thus cast a glow of youth and
health over it."

"No, it was your very self. Though you seemed
younger, yet you looked just as I saw you last night,
as spiritual, as handsome, and the voice was yours, and
the sigh."

Handsome, Helene ? you are mocking me."

I am not mocking you."

St. Louis answered only by a sigh ; he sighed over
his departed youth, sighed lest the girl were flattering
him, sighed because his sensitiveness was almost
intolerable ; and as Sir Charles sighed, as the girl still
knelt before him, St. Amour, who this evening acted
as butler, who, on account of his master's ill state of
health, performed, at his own suggestion, this duty,
lest, as he said, the fuss and the parade made by les
gardens Anglaise might upset his masters nerves,
St. Amour enters, announcing that le diner est servi.

Smiling, the girl arises from her lowly attitude. Sir
Charles also arises from his sofa, and under the critical
gaze and the mental criticisms of Monsieur, together
they proceed to dinner.

We have said that Helene was naturally picturesque,
nay, even a little theatrical in her movements. This
picturesqueness,  this, as it were, inherent grace characterised

her whole nature, descending to the merest
trifles. A picturesqueness marked the girl's taste in
dress. Nature or instinct seemed to tell her what
would most enhance her peculiar style of beauty. Yes,
with a kind of zingaree beauty, she had that love of
bright colour that the wandering tribes of the East
have ever shown. The brightest colours, the strongest
contrasts in colour, the most fantastic dress that others
would have shrunk from adopting, that others had
not dared to wear, became our little Gipsy most, and
this by instinct she seemed to know.

This evening she is in deep rose-coloured cashmere
trimmed with black. The white cambric muslin
petticoat beneath her dress has a body and sleeves
embroidered, finished with little frills. The very low
bodice of the dress, the very short sleeves permit the
white embroidered body of the petticoat beneath to be
very apparent, nay, the girl had but one single black
velvet strap edged with rose for the dress-sleeve ; the
whole of the sleeve save that was white, while the
body of the dress in front was composed of only bars
of black velvet edged with rose, the white embroidered
body showing above and between ; the skirt of the
dress was trimmed with black velvet to correspond.
But as if here was not colour enough, her hair was
twined with ribbon of blue and gold ; round her throat
was a ribbon to match, and on her bosom was a bow
of the same, a bracelet of jet on one arm, on the other
one of blue and gold.

On their first arrival at the London hotel Sir Charles
had requested Helene, when she went to her room of a

night, to be attended on her way thither by Monsieur
St. Amour, and he would order Mrs. Bird to be in the
room ready to receive her. Our poor sensitive master
dare not accompany the girl himself along the hotel
passages, lest any one might conceive there was a
shadow of impropriety in his doing so.

But after the first night, at Helene's desire, she was
suffered to find her way to her room without such an
attending pomposity, and now to-night, receiving from
her fiance first a tender pressure of the hand, next a
few words in allusion to her dream, accompanied by a
glance telling more of the mortal than the Saint, she
takes her night candle and departs.

Helene's bedroom was in a passage where there
were several others, the doors opening into this
passage. As she was about to pass one of these doors,
a figure of a man emerges from it and stands in her
way. The word " Helene," uttered in Tresham's voice,
so amazes, so shocks her nerves, she feels ready to
sink. The girl, however, does not lose her presence of
mind. " Mr. Daubigny," she said, " I must beg you tolet
me pass."

He grasped her hand; he would not let her pass,
and repeating slowly and bitterly her words, "Mr.
Daubigny, I must beg you to let me pass," he added,
Yes, here is confirmation strong indeed."

Helene," he continued, " you have sold yourself to
the highest bidder. My uncle's fortune outweighs all
the love, the passion, the devotion of my soul. Oh !"
he exclaimed in angry yet low and guarded tones, " I
have the most damning fears. Your father, Helene,

must have made, arranged this opportunity, apparently
a chance ; your being alone with my uncle in a London
hotel, he abjuring, avoiding his own proper residence,
using even a hired carriage. Great God, what am I to
suppose ?"

Tresham," cried Helene, " what is it you imagine ?
Is it possible you can dare to impute evil to a man who
is all goodness, who takes such care of me he is
almost ridiculous ?"

Oh, I quite agree with you, he takes so much care
of you he is quite ridiculous. He is like the dog in
the manger ; he cannot eat the hay himself, but he
will have it all in his own keeping, and prevent  "

Here Helene, growing angry, fiercely interrupted
Mr. Daubigny. " His care," cries she, " is my heaven ;
he is my heaven."

Tell me, oh don't spare me, say it, and you are
hell. Yes, it is quite true, you are making my soul
a hell."

I am not," cried the girl. " Before I knew you you
were wicked."

His angel tongue told you this," retorts he wildly.

Mr. Daubigny," demands Helene haughtily, angrily,
let me pass on."

Not yet, not yet," cries he. " Helene, I have the
most horrible suspicions, and I have good ground for
them. Why did your father go abroad and leave you
at Avonmore ? Why, but to create an opportunity
for the old hypocrite? The bailiff and the master
betwixt them have contrived this plausible affair."

"What can you mean?" asks the trembling girl.

"Papa was sent for;  he was ordered to Calais
instantly."

I have no doubt he told you so,  I have no doubt
he told every one so ; the story suits admirably. But
when I combine your father's poverty, his desperate
circumstances, with your beauty, with my uncle's infatuation,
nay, his passion, his wealth  "

My father's poverty, his desperate circumstances !
Who has dared to speak of papa in this way ?" demands
Helene, her voice now grown hoarse with grief and
anger.

"A sellar who was in the prison at Bruges when
your father was locked up too. What can you say
now, eh ? Will you dare to deny that he was there ?
Will you dare to deny that only through my uncle's
means he obtained his release ?"

The girl burst into a passion of tears. Her love for
her father was intense ; to have him spoken of in this
insulting manner, to have his disgrace, his misfortune,
dragged to light, thrust before her, not only distressed,
but hardened her heart against the sinner. But
Tresham had not done yet.

"You cannot deny that my uncle has your father
completely in his power?"

I do deny it," cried Helene. " My father" she
paused. " Oh that he were here ! But no, you were
not safe from his resentment. Go from me," exclaimed
she, struggling to be free, " go from me, you are wickedness
itself."

Monsieur St. Amour at this moment suddenly appears.
Helene knew not he was near.

Mr. Tresham," the valet said aloud, " Mademoiselle
must not be detained," then whispered some words
she did not catch.

Tresham let go his grasp, entered the room whence
he had emerged, and Helene was proceeding onwards,
when Monsieur, she found, was beside her.

Pardonnez-moi, Mademoiselle," he said, bowing respectfully,
" mais je vous en conjure, arrested, attendez
pour une seule instant."

Helene most unwillingly stayed her steps.

Vous ne parler pas de celui-ci ; de cette rencontre
unfortunate. Sir Charles will be too upset, he will not go.
Assortment il sera trop malade pour faire le voyage."

The unfortunate girl stood bewildered, irresolute,
pondering the man's words.

Demain matin," continued he, " demain matin,
Mademoiselle, nous partons pour la belle France.
You will be far away. You will see Mr. Tresham no
more."

Oh," cried the girl, clasping her little hands
together as one in despair, " oh, je ne sais que faire !
Oh, if he should hear of it, he will never believe que je
lai rencontre par hazard. Oh, c'est une action de la
dernier create."

"My master will never hear unless Mademoiselle
herself mention."

Oh ! but how can I, how dare I deceive him so ?"

Mademoiselle, il n'est pas besoin de cela. My
master will never suspect. If you do mention it, vous
vous faites tort."

Oh, a peine puis-je me soutenir," cried the trembling

girl. " Mrs. Bird will find out there has been something
the matter."

"Discernment, Mademoiselle. Courage,  en peu de
temps Mademoiselle will be all right. Mademoiselle
would not be the ruin of Mr. Tresham?"

The hapless Helene still was irresolute.

He bien. Faites comme vous l'entendez," said the
man, evidently much disturbed.

If I thought he would never seek me more," she
murmured.

J'employerai tous mes efforts, Mademoiselle. Je
tacherai. Je ferai tout mon possible pour le preVenir,
Mademoiselle se porte mieux a present."

Oh," cried the girl, as if thinking aloud, " how
wicked, how cruel he is ! How can he do so !"

L' amour l'emporte sur toutes sortes de considerations,"
gently, softly pleaded Monsieur, by way of excuse
for his favourite.

"Do not speak to me of his love," cried the girl
haughtily. "If I strive to conceal this that has
happened to-night, it is only lest he be utterly ruined."

Mademoiselle is all goodness," murmured Monsieur,
bowing with profound respect.

No," cried the girl, " I believe all disguise is sin.
'Tis the last time, tell him, I will act a falsehood. 11
me reste encore au dessus quelques scrupules."

The valet, who hitherto had had but a flimsy notion
of our little Gipsy's character, was much struck by her
serious and truthful manner.

Mais, mon Dieu," mused he, as he regarded her,
it is no marvel que mon maitre est amoureux."

After passing a restless night, fraught with ugly
dreams, our Helene saw the wintry dawn stealing into
her bedroom, and recalled to mind the last night's
cruel scene, and also that this was to be the last
morning of her stay in the London hotel. She rose,
and in all truth and sincerity prayed for protection
against her own sinful heart, prayed for guidance in
the future. And then she looked out at her window
on to the pavement beneath, and the grey dull sky
above, and saw that it was but an unpropitious day
for a journey. A very small drizzling rain or mist
filled the air ; and now and then arose a breeze that
sighed as it stole sadly by. The only thing to be said
in the morning's favour was, that the sighing breeze
was not a sharp one, that the air was not bleak and
chill as lately it had been. Sir Charles had ordered
his carriage to be ready an hour after breakfast ; and
here I should mention that our little party might have
gone by rail,  there was at this time a railroad to
Dover ; but the London physician, on parting with his
patient, knowing that he was about to travel, had
warned him to have a care, this cold bleak weather, of

railway carriages and railway stations. The doctor
added that he had had lately many serious cases under
his notice of colds originating from, or colds increased
by, exposure to draughts in railway travelling.

Sir Charles had a shrinking sensitiveness that led
him to be very glad on this occasion to have a pretext
for avoiding the more public mode of travelling. He
might meet half-a-dozen people before the train reached
Dover, who would accost him, or who would at least
expect a bow in token of recognition. Nay, at the
very station, he might run against some one.

Moreover, he found the young girl so much delighted
at the idea of travelling more slowly and by the road.
It would give her an opportunity of catching, at least,
a passing glimpse of a country so interesting to her by
tradition, by report, but of which she knew so little by
experience.

Helene saw that Sir Charles this morning was
unusually depressed, that he was anxious and nervous.
She could see that he had a great dread of the first
encounter with her father. His mind, so much occupied
with a painful subject, and the girl herself so busy
packing up and getting ready to start, he did not
notice how pale she looked, and that she could eat no
breakfast. Each, however, improved when they had
travelled some way. The fresh air, the country air, the
constant change of scene, seemed to renew the girl's
spirits, and had a most salutary effect on her health ;
while her companion, amused and aroused by the
interest she took in their route, by the questions she
constantly put to him concerning it, for the moment

forgot the really formidable encounter, the inevitable
encounter in store for him.

Helene loved travelling, especially she loved travelling
in this luxurious fashion ; and never did she look
prettier than to-day, when enveloped in her velvet and
sable mantle, her little hands warm in her sable muff,
and her pretty face peering out of a black velvet bonnet
lined with white satin and trimmed with feathers and
ribbons of her favourite blue. And had she not much
to please her ? A man of enormous wealth, so benton
making her happy ; a man, too, whom, if she could
not love as a lover, she yet honoured, respected.

There was indeed that wound in her heart the sinner
had made, the wound that he seemed determined, if he
could help it, should never heal. We will not deny
it : suppress nature, struggle against nature however
much she would, memory would still retain the image
of the worthless Tresham.

But the girl had determined to be Lady Daubigny,
and she had determined also to be a faithful and
orderly wife. She knew that she could not forget
Tresham, but in the future she would exercise a
constant vigilance.

But we must leave the heart, the soul, and return to
the flesh in which the spirit dwells. Helene had eaten
no breakfast, not so much as a piece of bread. The
fresh air, the change of air, has made our little Gipsy
hungry. She confesses her need, but she does not dare
to say, " I ate no breakfast ;" she was too conscious of
the hidden cause. Sir Charles, poor fellow, was not
himself at all hungry, though Ms breakfast had scarce

VOL. it. E

exceeded hers ; but on hearing the girl's declaration,
kindly and cheerfully he says 

Well, then, we will have luncheon at Eochester at
'The Crown.' 'The Crown,' Helene, is a very good
place." And so here they stayed an hour.

Ah ! if it had been but summer, if but spring, or
even early autumn, what a treat it would have been to
the girl to have gone out and looked on the ruined
castle, the cathedral, the old bridge ! What a treat it
would have been to have sauntered in the garden of the
Crown ; a garden teeming with flowers, especially with
carnations ; a garden formed on the ruinous outworks of
the castle. Ah ! well I remember when a child how
delighted I was with the garden of ' The Crown ;' how
charmed I was with my short visit to Eochester. But
that Eochester is gone ; even the old bridge, I am told,
is swept away.

As it was, the wind, the mist forbade our Helene
venturing out. She had, however, a very famous
luncheon, and was so glad to find that her Saint, when
once he began, could eat too. Yes, he did very welland
was much better for his cutlet and his wine.

Oiseau and Monsieur were also reinforced by a most
savoury repast, which the old dame, rationally enough,
called her dinner, but which Monsieur, in imitation of
his betters, termed his luncheon.

Like Sir Charles and Helene, they were much refreshed,
and much more cheerful after thus ministering
to their mortality ; and the poor baronet and Helene,
Oiseau and Monsieur, all reached " The Ship Hotel" at
Dover in excellent condition.

The next question was when they should cross to
Calais. The French mail-packet would leave in the
course of the evening, but the weather was far worse
at Dover than it had been in London, or at any place
on their route.

The French vessel, as the hotel-keeper informed Sir
Charles, was a fine new steamer, with a first-rate crew ;
although, as he added, they are French, and the captain
too.

Our master had no prejudice against foreign sailors ;
he had seen some, nay, many, in Belgium, who had
excited his admiration ; and it would have suited
his own inclinations best to have crossed this evening,
and he had made up his mind, despite the breeze that
ever and anon went shrilly by, to do so.

Monsieur, himself a very bad sailor, presently, however,
reported that a storm was expected, " que les ondes
sont agitates a extremity." Sir Charles, with a smile at
the valet's timorousness, answered nothing ; and shivering
with dread, Monsieur left the room.

Had St. Louis been travelling without his Helene,
he certainly had been inflexible, he had crossed in the
French mail-packet. But she must be considered and
consulted, and she decided that to run into danger was
both useless and disagreeable. " It isn't every one,"
cried the girl, laughing, " who has your taste for a rough
sea. I like it still as a mill pond."

I am afraid George will be a little put out," said
our master. "You see from his letter lie thinks we
have taken our time as it is."

He is uncomfortable altogether," answers Helene.

Being shut up with this sick old woman makes him
cross."

Why, my dear child, do you invariably speak of
this poor suffering invalid in such a remarkable manner?
I believe she is a very worthy person."

What should I call her ? Not my aunt, surely V

Call her then papa's aunt ; or call her Mrs.
Stapleton."

I cannot have any patience with her," cries Helene.
It is quite evident that she only fancies she is dying
every now and then, and I haven't much patience with
papa either, for rushing to her whenever he is called."

You are wrong, Helene. She was as kind to him
in his early days as a mother, or an elder sister. Childless
herself, she gave to him the love she would have
given to a son."

Well, I dare say. But do you think if she were a
poor woman he would be so attentive ? 'Tis the only
thing I ever disliked in papa. I would leave her just
to herself."

He was thoughtless and neglectful once as you
could desire, but he has suffered intensely ; and now
you say he errs the other way," answered Sir Charles,
sadly.

I never can make him tell me how she came to be
so rich," pursues the girl. " Papa never enters into
particulars."

For a moment St. Louis indulges in a smile at the
expense of his old rival. " He never will tell you," he
said. " Well, I can guess why."

What is your guess ?"

Miss Graham was thought to descend a little when
she gave her hand to Mr. Stapleton. Mr. Stapleton was
a man in business  a wholesale grocer. He was not
well born. He was not very refined, but he had the
kindness to die at a middle age, and leave his wife
mistress of ten thousand a year."

Now," cried the girl, laughing, " I quite understand
why papa never more fully explained."

Yes ; it is not in George's way at all, you know,"
remarked the Saint, with another smile of amusement.

Sir," says Monsieur entering, and thus interrupting
the conversation, " Sir Charle, la mer est enraged. II
fait un gros temps. Will you have the goodness to tell
me dcidment what is your pleasure. Je ne sais rien."
Monsieur was not only alarmed at the prospect before
him of a rough passage, but he was pouting ; he was
affronted by his master's audacity in daring to oppose
his wishes, his advice. He was angry that his master
should possess a courage superior to his own ; that his
report previously given of the waves " agitates a l'ex-
trmiteV' should be received with such perfect sangfroid.


Oh," answers the master carelessly, " I 've submitted
to necessity. I've deferred going until tomorrow, St.
Amour."

How relieved looked Monsieur ! He was relieved in
every way; he had not been contradicted; lie should not
be made to suffer. He bowed his thanks and retired.

And," continued the girl, returning to the subject
of conversation as Monsieur disappeared, " and do you
think papa will get all this ?"

That is a question I cannot answer. But even if he
should, yet afterwards still pursues the phantom peerage
case, I am afraid it will seriously diminish."

Poor dear," cries Helene, " you would not deprive
him of his hope ? "

No," answered Sir Charles. " If it would add to
his happiness, I wish him success."

Now, only fancy," continued the girl, " if he had not
that to occupy his thoughts, and I left him for your
sake, how hard it would be ! Ever since you have
thought of me as  " Helene paused.

You never like to say it. I suppose you consider
the matter too grotesque."

Grotesque ! " cried the Gipsy. " Indeed, I always
thought it too great an honour,  so great, that perhaps
it never may be mine. The very name I should bear
I think is too beautiful for earth. Don't you think so ?
Helene Gertrude Gabrielle Daubigny. I cannot goto
bed without something to eat. There 's romance !
For a girl with a name like that ought not to be
hungry."

Oh, my love, forgive my negligence."

"The day has been all topsy-turvy, as Oiseau
says. Our luncheon at Eochester, as we were going
to cross, we agreed should be our dinner ; and since
we arrived here we have had but tea, without even a
morsel of bread."

What shall I order, dear ?" asked the baronet,
getting up and putting his hand on the old-fashioned
bell-rope.

I cannot eat alone. Will you promise to help me ?"

I will see when it comes."

No ; you shall order nothing if you will not eat
too."

Perhaps I should order a dinner now," said he
undecidedly.

Oh dear no ; 'tis too late. I meant some cold ham,
or even bread and butter."

He rang, and ordered for his puss cold chicken and
champagne.

The storm, of which Monsieur had been so apprehensive,
did not after all break over this part of the Kentish
coast, but flitted to some other part of the world, thereto
do its work of destruction ; and now, next morning
dawns on Dover, brighter, more genial than is usual so
early in the year. It was mild, wonderfully mild for
February in a region famous for bleak and boisterous
weather. The sea lay almost calm, the waves came
rippling gently to the pebbly shore. The mighty cliffs,
white chalky heights, looked whiter in the morning
sun, while the herbage on their summits wore a verdure
as in very spring.

And this bright morning was an anxious one for
Charles Daubigny. On his arrival at Calais a private
interview with Graham was inevitable, and during this
interview might there not arise a very sad, and as yet
avoided subject of discourse ? Was it possible that, in
speaking confidentially of the marriage, each speaker
would be skilful enough to avoid all mention of our
Helene's mother, of the blot, the stain upon the young
girl's birth ? The past, and Graham's share in poor
Helene Vane's ruin, pressed heavily on our master's

spirit, and he went on board the English mail-steamer
feeling depressed and feeble.

Unconscious of her fiances troubled state of mind,
our little lady was livelier than she had been of late.
The sea air, the lovely morning (a morning so soft and
mild, it told rather of April than of February)  the sea
air, the lovely morning, had brought back something of
the. girl's childish levity. However, she did remember
that it would not be wise to go on board a steamer
dressed as she had travelled from London to Dover. She
must lay aside her velvet and sable mantle, and wear,
while crossing the Channel, something less costly. Her
pretty new bonnet, too, must repose in its box, instead
of courting the spray of the sea on her own little head.
A more rustic bonnet, rather resembling a hat than a
bonnet, was found  a Gipsy bonnet, of course, black
straw lined with pale yellow. A wide ribbon crossed
it, that tied under her chin. The ribbon's colour is
yellow and black, while a handful of wild flowers 
buttercups, daisies, a single poppy  carelessly drooped
on one side. Her cloak, not a long nor a large one,
was lightest grey frieze, with a hood lined and tasselled
with scarlet ; the skirt of her dress seen below, black
seme with round spots of amber. Her little feet were
encased in high-heeled shoes of black kid, and her trim
little ankles close fitted by ribbed black silk hose.
These garments were not new, they were not costly,
but wonderfully they became the girl, and as she trod
the deck, holding up a portion of her dress with a little
hand gloved in black and amber, scarcely could be
found a puss more picturesque.

The weather is so fine there is no need to go down
below, and Sir Charles and herself are seated on a
bench on deck, when, looking up, she sees some one
approaching. Absent, and his spirit weighed down by
sensibility as regards the future and the past, our
master starts when this person stays his steps, holds
out a hand, and says, "Daubigny, I am glad to see

you."

Helene looked with surprise at the stranger who thus
accosted Sir Charles. His dress appeared to her so
novel, or rather so antiquated, and his figure she thought
as common and as vulgar as his dress. He was a short,
thick-set little man, his legs encased in top-boots and
drab kerseymere breeches. His waistcoat was buff,
his coat dark blue, adorned with plain brass or metal
buttons, and round his neck was such a voluminous roll
of white neckcloth he seemed smothered in it.

By her Saint's deferential manner, by his amiable
reply, she could tell, however, that this strange-looking
person possessed some peculiar quality of attraction.
At his invitation, Sir Charles left the girl to pace up
and down the deck, and the two men seemed as they
strode up and down to be quite unconscious of everything
but their present discourse.

This was offensive to Helene. She did not like to
be sitting for three-quarters of an hour quite alone on
the deck of the English mail-packet. She did not like
to be thus neglected But she would not so much have
cared, had not a very young and very sickly-looking
man cast himself down on the deck nearly facing the
bench on which she sat. A footman immediately after

brought two woollen rugs, and the sickly and fantastic-looking
young fellow just moved sufficiently to have
one put so that he could lounge or recline upon it, and
then the obsequious servant disposed the other to shelter
his young master from the wind. Having thus settled
himself, the girl presently found that, instead of reading
the book which the footman had placed beside him, his
eyes were engaged in scrutinising her. He took one
glove off, and she could see that he had the most perfect-shaped
and the whitest hand she had ever beheld ; but
this, according to her idea, was his only beauty. He
had lank, yellow hair, a thin pale face, neither moustache
nor whisker, and the one thing that she hated inhumanity
this affected specimen possessed  he had real
green eyes. However, she might have pardoned their
colour if they had not been so constantly turned on
herself with what she deemed impertinence ; as to being
an object of his admiration, this never occurred to her.

At length, to Helene's relief, Sir Charles did leave
his top-booted companion. Her Saint, with all the
devotion possible, returned to his idolatry, but she was
in no humour to receive his worship.

May I ask," murmurs the girl, pouting not a little
as he bent down to catch her murmured words, " may
I ask who that eccentric, vulgar-looking, little old man
is you have been so desperately engaged with V Before
he could reply, she added in a reproachful whisper,
All the time you have been so perfectly oblivious, all
the time that I have been left here like a sparrow
perched on a house-top, that creature opposite, that
fellow lounging on the rug, has been amusing himself

by criticising me, and with the most provoking coolness.
Thank Heaven, he is getting up, he is moving away."

Sir Charles could not repress a momentary smile
of amusement at the girl's vehemence as he answered,
The eccentric, vulgar-looking, little old man I have
been talking to, Helene, is Lord Bedingfield. My
Brierly property adjoins a vast tract of land belonging
to him. We are, as it were, next-door neighbours. The
young fellow who has been lounging on the deck and
using his eyes too freely is Lord Brailsford, his son."

"Then, I suppose," cries the girl, "you could not
resist the invitation of a great man, and that is why
you left me here all alone ? "

My dear child, can it be possible you are offended ?"
pleads Sir Charles. " I have been having some very
particular and private discourse with my neighbour
concerning two people in whom I am deeply interested."

And pray," asked Helene, " who are these people
you are so interested in ?"

Yourself and Tresham."

You have been talking about me ! What could
have induced you to do so ?" cried the girl, colouring,
blushing.

Lord Bedingfield inquired whether you were one of
my nieces."

"lam very thankful you could say no."

"Well, I could say no to that ; but, as he knows me
so well, it occurred to me I should say something
more."

And what did you say, what could you say about
such a thing as I am ?"

My dearest child, you are out of humour."

I am. That creature stretched out before me,
examining me as if I were set there on purpose for his
amusement, has put me out of humour."

Well, my love, I see that in future T must be
vigilant as the grand Turk. You are too pretty to be
left at large."

Nonsense !" cries Helene. " Why do you laugh
at me ?"

If you are so out of humour, Helene, I had better
be silent. There," rising from the bench on which he
had just placed himself, " I will not sit here, and I will
tell you nothing."

"You shall sit here, and you shall tell me everything."


No ; I shall say nothing if I do remain."

Helene saw that she had offended her Saint. He
maintains a profound silence. The girl had come
aboard the steamer feeling more cheerful than she had
felt for some time. The sunshine, the calm blue sea,
the balmy air, her own youth and health, her native
vivacity, the idolatry of her old lover, even the importance,
the wealth of her lover, had combined to elate
her. But the desertion, extending to fully three-quarters
of an hour, that she had had to endure ; that during
that desertion she herself, whose history would so ill
bear the light that she should have been the subject
of conversation ; and that, in the meantime, the green-eyed
lordling should have gazed upon her as coolly as
though she had been a statue or a picture, were circumstances
of small importance, indeed, but which at this

moment seriously ruffled her temper. Tears filled the
girl's eyes as she thought of what Sir Charles might
have said had he alluded to it, to her hapless birth ;
as she thought of what he might have said, too, if he
had chosen, of her father's incarceration at Bruges.
As for Tresham, she could not conceive why he should
have been mentioned. Perhaps Lord Bedingfield, from
being a neighbour of Sir Charles at Brierly, knew him.

A deep sigh breaking from our poor baronet aroused
the girl from her mournful reverie. "You," she said,
can have nothing to sigh about, unless it be your
future alliance with me."

That is the one thing that I sigh for, Helena I
sigh because that happiness is not in possession. It is
in the clouds ; I cannot grasp it."

I believe when the day comes, if it ever should
come, you will find it very like grasping a rose stalk,
you will find nothing but thorns."

"Confess you are unkind and out of humour,
Helene."

Well, you do not go the way to put me into a better
humour, making such a mystery. Tell me what could
have kept you talking all that time."

One part of our discourse, as I mentioned, related to
my unfortunate nephew. Lord Bedingfield has always
been something of a sporting character. He tells me
that early this year Tresham actually gave six hundred
guineas for a horse which will be, or has been, entered
to run at Goodwood races. Nothing can make any
impression. No experience, no entreaties can divert
him from the road to ruin. When he was about to

marry, I found out through his mother that he was
again vastly in debt. I could not endure that he
should do so unhandsome a thing as to take the young
girl's money to pay his debts. I put everything
straight. I hoped he would go on all right. Moreover,
I gave him ten thousand pounds to start with, that he
might not appear as he deserves to be  a beggar. I
might just as well have thrown the money into the sea.
Now that he has taken to racing again, it will not belong
before I shall hear the old cry. There is never
an end of his extravagance ; and his want of morality,
his recklessness, surpasses his extravagance."

What can the unfortunate Tresham's extravagances
signify to a man of your fortune ?" answers Helene, in
no very amiable tone of voice. " You can scarcely feel
paying his debts now and then ; and as to his manifold
transgressions, your life would be insipid as eternal
boiled chicken or seal sans la sauce piquante if you
had not his sins to count over."

You grow more and more amiable, Helene," says
Sir Charles, his voice and the frown on his brow
betraying that he was mortal.

Well, seriously," cries the girl with a playful manner,
irritating as her previous words, " well, seriously,
I am very cross."

"Do not speak to me, then, again till you are
different."

Well, I am different now," she answers. " I will
not be cross if I can help it ; it is very wicked. I will
not think of what often makes me wretched. You
know there is one dark shadow that inevitably is mine.

Even if I should be married, not all your tenderness,
not all your fortune can take it away. That one dark
shadow must ever rest upon me ; and if strangers ask
questions about me, or if I imagine they may, a shudder
seems to run through my very soul. I do not think,"
added the girl in a voice that was scarcely steady, so
much she felt her misfortune, " I do not think papa is at
all conscious that I know. I should not dare to seem
to know to him. And when you were talking just now
to the funny-looking little Lord, and you came back and
said some of your conversation had been about me  "

Helene," said Sir Charles in a voice troubled as her
own, " never again, if you can avoid it, speak to me of
this. It makes me almost hate your father."

The girl opened wide her deep blue eyes and gazed
on her Saint in wonder, for it was not only his words
that told of the old feeling, but the vehement manner,
the agitated voice in which they were uttered.

"You are shocked and surprised," he added, trying
to regain his calmness.

I thought you were too good to hate any one," murmured
Helene sadly.

Far, far from good, my dear ; but I hope in time,
by the help, the mercy of God, to overcome."

"And was it, then, because you disliked papa so
much that you would only stay at Avonmore when he
was away ?"

If I should answer yes, Helene, will you forgive
me?"

"And how," said the girl with a trembling voice,
how are we ever to think of happiness when there

is this cruel division, these still smouldering ashes, as
it were ?"

"Nay, my love, I promise to subdue, to resist, to
watch over my soul with the utmost vigilance, daily to
ask aid of Him who will not deny. Your father, in
writing to me at Bruges, I remember, spoke of you
as the bridge that should make passable the chasm that
so long had yawned betwixt us. Helene, it may be
your angel mission."

Charles Daubigny could say no more. To his
apprehension he could not speak further on such a
subject to Helene. He sat in sad, in dreamy silence ;
but his soul soars upwards, and mentally he murmurs,
Oh, God of Heaven, grant that out of the evil that
clouded all the best years of my life, good yet may
come. Grant that this child, born of his ungoverned
passion, may be a blessing in my life's decline ; grant
that she may be worthy to dispense the wealth thou
hast poured upon me. Oh let her be as a crown of
glory to my age ! Keep her yet childlike heart from
evil ! Oh let the angel of thy presence watch o'er her
young and beauteous head !"

VOL. II.

On arriving at the Hotel Dessin, where George Graham
and his sick aunt were for the present domiciled, Helene
could see that her father was in no very amiable
temper. His first words to her as she, in her customary
manner, flew to embrace him, were, " Eh, is it Lady
Daubigny or my own Helene who embraces me ? By
the time that has elapsed since Charles's letter of
declaration reached me, and from his impromptu mode
of courtship, I began to think, and perhaps my conclusion
is no incorrect one, that you were making a
trip to Gretna on your way hither."

"My dear, dear papa," cried the girl, laughing and
blushing, and again kissing her George, " my dear, dear
papa, do not be cruel."

Cruel, Helene ! Who is most cruel ? You, to be
ready to go off from me like a shot ; or I, to imagine the
shot fired?"

I hate your badinage, papa ! There is nothing
indeed to make a mockery of."

Excellent ! Why, it is the most ridiculous affair
I have heard of these twenty years or more."

"What shall I do to smooth your feathers?" says
the lovely girl, pulling off her Gipsy bonnet, and

shaking down her golden brown hair. " I see you are
all ruffled, like a cock that is ready to fight."

You are utterly mistaken," cries George. " Instead
of doing battle with your old lover, I shall laugh him
out of his folly."

It may seem folly to you," says the girl a little
loftily, " but to me there seems nothing foolish in it."

You, child (with a contemptuous sneer), what can
you know about it ? Pray, Helene, don't make yourself
such a confounded fool."

I wish I had run off to Gretna," cries Helene,
growing angry, " then I should have escaped such a
gracious reception."

"Possibly not, for I much question whether, had
Charles tried such an experiment, he would have escaped
with his life ; and you left a widow, a child-widow,
would have come sneaking back to my arms in horror
and dismay."

The girl hereupon buried her face in her hands and
wept a passion of tears.

Oh !" she cried, " why was I born ? What a destiny
is mine ! Beside yourself there is but one who really
loves me, and that one I see you seem disposed to
drive away."

Helene, Helene, if I seem unkind I am sorry. I
do not blame you ; I blame Charles Daubigny."

I would rather a thousand times," cries she, " that
your anger fell on me than on him, he is so self-denying,
so disinterested, so like an angel."

My dear child, pray be reasonable. Did ever one
hear such nonsense? Self-denying, disinterested, and

he wants you, young as you are, to sacrifice yourself.
Angelic, too ! Did angel ever covet such a commodity ?
Go and look at yourself in the glass. By the way,
Helene, have you any idea  " He paused.

Of what ?" asked she, looking up through her tears.

I do not wish to make you vain, child, but you are
very pretty."

It is no good if I am," cries the girl, weeping anew.
What is the use of anything when every hour of my
life my heart is tortured?"

George could not bear to see his child so wretched.
He attempted to console her ; he put his arms around
her; he gave her a gentle kiss. " If all goes well, love,"
said he, "as I have every reason to believe it will,
much happiness may be yours in the future. Helene,
there is no reason why you should not marry in a
natural, a proper way. Your marriage with a man
only one year younger than your own father, your
marriage with a confirmed invalid, would not in my
eyes be a marriage at all."

It is the only marriage," cries the girl, breaking
from his embrace and hastily picking up the bonnet
she had cast on the floor, " it is the only marriage I
will ever make ;" and without waiting for her George's
reply, she quitted the salon in which they were, and
went into a bedroom adjoining it, which had been
made ready for her reception.

George stood with his back to the log-wood fire,
ruminating in amazement. " Poor dear," muses he,
she does not know what love and marriage mean."

Charles Daubigny had escaped this first ebullition

of Graham's mingled badinage and wrath. Feeling
very doubtful as to the manner in which she should be
received on her arrival at Dessin's, Helene, with due
precaution, had begged her fianct to repair at once to
his allotted apartments and make a survey, lest, as she
said, they might not be comfortable, or might not suit
his taste, " and I," cried she, " meantime will go and
speak to papa." What tact, what sharp-wickedness
exists in women ! Thus, if Helene had not prevented,
she had at least deferred the sharp encounter Charles
Daubigny so much dreaded with his old rival. The
girl saw nothing more of her fighting-cock except fora
short time in the evening of that day. After the
dinner, served in Sir Charles's saloon, had been cleared
away, George presented himself. He came in looking
as unlike his cousin's bailiff as it was possible for a
man to look. He was in evening dress ; his coat, his
trousers, his polished leather boots, his shirt, his necktie,
all seemed to have caught an air of fashion from
the man, or the man closeted at Calais with his
invalid aunt had been studying the latest mode,
ordering and adopting. Even his taper fingers had
been attended to ; he wore on them several rings of
value, rings, novelties to Helene, and which his old
aunt must lately have bestowed on this her favourite
nephew.

Graham seemed determined to avoid all discourse
touching the subject he considered so grotesque ;
nevertheless he was civil enough to the candidate for
his daughter's hand. Perhaps he found it convenient
on this occasion to be egotistical ; at all events he was

so. Perhaps lie wished to show how little the affair
that had brought Charles Daubigny to Calais concerned
him. While he discoursed of himself or of his aunt,
he stood on the rug before the glowing wood fire,
looking his noblest and his best. Age had not touched
to destroy aught of his manly grace. He was as upright
and his figure faultless as ever. Sorrow, adversity
had but bowed his spirit for a while ; the pressure
removed, he was prepared to come forth, proud,
consequential, selfish, vain as he had been through all
his earlier life.

He complained of the wretched life he was leading,
that if he were to leave the hotel even for an hour's
exercise, he believed he should give offence. That the
poor invalid had the most extraordinary whims and
fancies, and one unceasing desire, this desire that she
might die in England. Nothing could divert her from
this desire ; it was her settled purpose, as soon as the
weather was a little milder, to resume (if she still
lived) her homeward journey. They had often talked
it over together. She should never get to her own
house again, she said ; the long journey by land, as she
could no longer sit up, deterred her from attempting
that ; but to cross from Calais to Dover, to lie on a
mattress while crossing, to be carried on board, to be
carried from the steamer to an hotel, was possible.
She could not die happily in a Catholic country.
There was a good, a worthy clergyman holding a living
at Dover whom she knew. He would administer the
sacrament to her ere she breathed her last ; he could
offer up prayers if she needed such support.

"This," continued George, "is her daily discourse,
and it is a fact that I am even now in negotiation fora
house on the Marine Parade at Dover. She insists
on my taking the house, and it is to be got ready incase
she feels able to proceed. I am pretty well worn
out," added the noble-looking model of a man, "from
living a life so contrary to anything I have been
accustomed to. The sickly, confined, scented air of
her room takes away my appetite, and she expects me
to have my luncheon with her when she has her
early dinner. I will not fail to come to your table,
Charles, when I can, and I thank you for allowing me
such a pleasant change ; but I never know one minute
after another whether my presence will be required in
the sick-room. You see she has only her maid and
the old butler with her, and it falls on me to do all the
talking, the ordering, the writing, the amusing."

After all that I have written of Charles Daubigny,let me
hope, oh my reader, that thine imagination will be able
to picture him at this one of the most trying moments
of his existence. Canst thou behold him as he
emerges from his saloon, with cheeks hollow, pale, with
bloodless lips, with his eyes of glory almost supernaturally
expressive of his many contending uncontrollable
feelings ? His thin wan hands are tightly
clasped together as he walks through a long passage at
Dessin's towards the room that Graham calls his own.
Canst thou behold St. Louis at this cruel moment
when he is about to cast himself as a suppliant on the
tender mercies of his overbearing and his haughty rival ?
Charles Daubigny had resolutely determined to
come to the encounter at once. He could bear suspense
no longer. The morning had passed, and
Graham had shown no signs of seeking the desired
interview. St. Louis therefore, in the afternoon,
despatched a note to the auld aunt's sick-room, where
Graham, like a rabbit in its burrow or a lion in its
den, was apt to bury himself. Our master then
despatched a note thither, requesting the favour of half-an-hour's
private conversation.

We will suppose the two men met ; we will suppose
the first few sentences exchanged; w T e will come at
once to the pith of the matter.

I do not wish to speak in an offensive manner,
Charles, but your valour perfectly astounds me," said
the noble-looking, healthful, upright Graham, gazing, ashe
spoke, on the attenuated, shrunken form of his companion.
" I am twice the man as to strength "and
nerve," continued he with a smile, " that you are, and
yet, at my age, I should shudder at the idea of taking
a young wife."

Charles Daubigny remaining silent, Graham proceeded.
" Helene is not seventeen till next April.
Perhaps you may not esteem her so, but I think her
very beautiful ; she is gifted too, unfortunately, with
that style of beauty that attracts the men. Endow her
with fortune, let her mix with the world, let her listen
to the flattery that the rich and the lovely must expect
to hear, do you think that her little head will not bea
trifle turned ? Will you be able to keep the girl in
order ? Charles, consider well " (so Graham's homily
proceeded) " before you rush unadvisedly into such an
untoward affair." Here the fighting-cock no longer
crowed, his voice suddenly became low, was full of
deepest melancholy, as painfully with effort he murmured,
" Have we not both witnessed what it is fora
man advanced in years to ally himself to youth, to
thoughtlessness, and to beauty ? Have I not myself
played a too conspicuous part in a drama of this nature?
For God's sake, think well before you attempt to go
further,  nay, I must add, take my advice and break

it off. It is a horrible thing for me to have to advert
to such a subject, but what can be expected of a being
sprung from such a source ? The girl's nature must be
warm and impassioned ; it may not show itself yet, she
is too young, she has seen so little of the world. But
believe me, it is in nature, and peculiarly, particularly
it must be in her nature. There will come an hour when
the form of some younger man will wake this yet
slumbering passion, and thenceforth what are you to
look for ? At the best, duty, cold duty, which the
heart, the soul will deem but slavery."

Charles Daubigny a moment gazed on the man before
him ; he answered nothing. His pale cheek flushed,
his eyes glanced out the soul's deep suffering and its
indignation. The old anger and the new were too large,
too terrible for words. Had he spoken, his voice had
been hoarse or it had been fierce. Hastily he quitted
the room.

The mournful past, the sad affair in which Graham
had indeed played a too conspicuous part, its tragic
end rose up before him. The insulting comparison
; yes, he himself, in Graham's mind, should be
classed with the infirm, the rich, the uninteresting
old banker from whom poor Helene Vane eloped, to
die in shame, in degradation, a victim to the ungoverned
passion of the man he had been talking to.

All this was enough to exasperate ; but Graham
to-day had contrived to wound Charles Daubigny's
sensibility yet further, yet deeper. His estimate of the
young Helene's nature, his description of what hereafter
the girl probably would become, had sunk so

deeply into the master's heart, that he shuddered, lest
indeed she might marry him merely as a convenience,
a screen, for, alas ! he knew but too well thai had
already been which Graham predicted would be in the
future. A more youthful form than that of her Saint
had already struck her fancy, had already lured her to
deviate from perfect rectitude. Nothing a man dislikes
more than to hear an unwelcome truth. Charles
Daubigny did not like to be reminded of the burning
source whence the girl sprang. He grudged Graham the
bliss of her paternity ; he was therefore at this moment
unjust to his former rival. " Better," murmured he,
that he had come out at once with the lines Savage
wrote upon himself."

Helene, running hastily into the saloon, wholly unconscious
of the scene which had just occurred, found
her Saint a prey to doubt, to feelings concerning her
such as we have described. Hot tears were in his
eyes, his usually pale cheek was flushed ; discreetly
he kept buried in his hands the countenance that bore
such tokens of the sharp conflict in his soul. He sat
before a table leaning his elbows on it, his thin wan
hands screening, as we have said, the evidence of his
impassioned grief. The girl spoke to him, but-he
answered nothing. She came and bent tenderly, inquiringly
over him, and then hoarsely he exclaimed : 

"Go from me ; if I am to believe your father, the
love you pretend for me is but a fiction, a pretext, and
were I to marry you, I could only expect a perfidy I
dare not describe. He tells me you will in the end
loathe and abhor your husband as the slave her master.

He bids me consider well ere I rush into so untoward
an affair; he advises that I at once break off our
engagement."

On hearing this the astounded girl, with her deep
blue eyes wide open, her little Gipsy hands upraised
and clasped, gazed in wonder and dismay. "Dare
papa think thus of me ?" she cried. " Has he dared to
say it ? Oh, tell me," she continued, throwing herself
at the feet of her Saint, " tell me, have you spoken to
him of my one fault ?"

I have never breathed of it," answered Charles
Daubigny ; " but now," lifting his head and gazing upon
her, " are you not giving evidence against yourself,
evidence to support his estimate of your nature ?"

Hear me," cried Helene. " God knows the love I
profess for you is very love; I do not pretend. He who
can see into my soul knows that it is my determination
to be constant, to be faithful to the death."

Go to your father," exclaimed Charles Daubigny,
go listen to all that he has to say."

I will," cried the girl, and hastily and indignantly
she left the room.

Helene instantly sought her father in the small
apartment where but so lately he had contrived to deal
kevfiancd so heavy a blow. Graham had not left the
room ; he was still there. She entered angry and
indignant, but his tenderness soon softened her resentment.


My dear Helene," said he, after the first few words
had passed between them, "you cannot suppose that I
am otherwise interested in putting an end to this

affair except for your own happiness. What motive
could I have ? But I know, I see so plainly that you
are hurrying on with it unthinkingly. Now, do but
consider. In a few years Charles will be quite an old
man in his habits, in his constitution ; and you, scarce
more than a child now, will be but in your very prime
of life. You see what he has become already ; what
will he be ten years hence ? He loves you, and he
will take it hard if you do not sacrifice your every
hour to his comfort. You will not dare to tell me,
Helene, it is too monstrous, that you regard him as a
lover. You will not dare to tell me that he ever
created an agitation, that at his approach you ever felt
your pulse beat quicker."

The girl cast herself down upon the little sofa, and
hiding her face, wept silently some bitter and irrepressible
tears. Graham saw them not, suspected not
that she wept, and he went on : " Marry my cousin,
Helene, marry him in what I call cold blood, marry him
because you want to be a great lady, because you want
to live in a grand house, because you like to drive
about in a fine carriage, and because you like to have
lots of fine dresses to put on ! Well, marry him ; but
nature cannot be extinguished ; a day may probably
come when you will see another and a younger man,
who, had you been free to choose, you would have
preferred. You may strive, but love will have his
revenge. You married as you ought not to marry ; you
mocked at the little god ; he did not light you to the
altar, but he will make you feel his power nevertheless.
Oh, Helene ! I have seen what it is ; it is indeed a

fearful thing to have to pretend to love an old man.
What a task ! Will you be equal to it ? Wait, my
love, take time to consider, if you do no other. But
my advice is that the affair be ended forthwith."

The girl, as we have said, sat, or rather leant, weeping
slow, sad, bitter tears. But she wept not in dread
of the future, but over the past, the buried love, scarce
born when it was crushed. She had had her poignant
anguish. Cupid's dart had wounded so as that the
wound should show a scar until her death. Loving
Tresham, as she ever must, she would prefer to marry
Charles Daubigny, or marry not at all. To him she
felt she could devote herself, for him she felt an intense
affection, a boundless gratitude.

Why are you so silent, Helen e ?" asked Graham as
the minutes passed, and she neither moved nor spoke.

"Because," she answered, and her unsteady voice
told of her sorrow, " because you have but spoken in
vain. Charles Daubigny I marry, or I never marry at
all."

Graham was surprised ; he came and gazed upon her
and kissed her. " Helene," he said, " you are a puzzle.
Why are you thus grieved ?"

Grieved," cried the girl, " oh, grief is everywhere !
Think you," and she rose and cast herself on his
bosom. " Think you that it is nothing to me that he
and you, in your souls, are ever at variance ? Dearest,
dearest George, if you would make me happy, be at
rest with him. He is all holiness, all truth, all tenderness,
all generosity. Give me to him with your
whole heart, and my heart shall be shared betwixt you.

Oh ! let there be but peace ! It is enough." The girl
actually sobbed, so full of trouble was her young life.

The fighting-cock, unpitying, obdurate to others, was
seldom hard to her. He was conquered by her unfeigned
misery. " I promise, Helene, if you will not
think better of it, to be ever on my guard."

Give me, oh give me some kinder words ! " murmured
she, pressing her lips to his lofty brow. " Without
your blessing I shall not have peace."

Foolish child," he said, " then have your way ; I
will not oppose it. But hear me. There shall be no
haste ; there need be none. Will you promise to bide
my time ?"

If you will promise to be kind."

I promise to be ever on my guard ; that will do."

The girl was much affected by all that her father
had said to her ; not that she expected to find a lover
in the future, but she was carried so painfully back
to the past  to that past of which Graham as yet
remained in total ignorance. She was much agitated
by the knowledge that her heart had indeed already
undergone the suffering he had predicted the little god
hereafter would inflict. She left Graham to shut herself
up in her own small apartment, there in solitude
to strive to subdue, to endeavour to quench the light
of the still smouldering ashes, his words for the
moment had rekindled into flame.

So the day wore on. It was getting dusk ; in an hour
it would be dinner-time, and the girl must put herself
in order to encounter St. Louis, perhaps her father too.

Helene had no maid, and Mrs. Bird was so slow
and tedious, she tried to do everything she could at
dressing-time for herself. Adversity had taught those
little hands to be very apt in performing unaided the
mysteries of the toilet. The girl had just taken off
her morning dress, and was sitting before the glass
braiding her hair, when a tap came at her door. It
must be the hotel femme de chambre or Mrs. Bird.
Entrez," cries out Helene somewhat impatiently.
Come in," she added, without moving from her chair
or suspending her operations. But the person outside
did not obey, but tapped again. So, hastily she
ran herself to the door, and opening it, found Monsieur
St. Amour standing in the corridor holding a little
note delicately, affectedly betwixt a finger and thumb.
On seeing the man, Helene coloured and shrank back.
She had, as we have said, divested herself of her morning
dress, and had on now only the white cambric
muslin petticoat of these by-gone days,  a petticoat
with a very low body, very short sleeves, the skirt
coming down scarcely to the ankle. Her hair, too, fell
in all its abundant glory over her shoulders.

1 did not think it was you," she said, addressing
Monsieur from a little distance. " Put the note down
in the corridor, and I will fetch it presently."

Mais, Mademoiselle," expostulated the man, his
eyebrows somewhat unusually elevated, " 'tis from Sir
Charle. My master very impatient. He bade me stay
for an answer."

Well, throw me the note," continues Helene, " and

wait outside. I cannot write now. I am in a hurry,
but I will see if I can send a message back."

Monsieur, with a bow, did as he was ordered. The
girl seized and tore open the little missive, and read in
consternation as follows : 

If I had not realised the fact, I could not have
believed you capable, Helene, of showing such an utter
indifference to me, and of manifesting such a total
disregard of my feelings.

For three whole hours have I been kept in suspense,
in that time enduring an anxiety no words can
describe.

Be so good as to send me an answer by the bearer.
Tell me, am I to leave for England to-night or not ?
Nothing shall induce me to stay ; nothing shall
induce me even to sit down at table with you this
evening, if (as I presume is the case) your father has
triumphed, has succeeded in converting you to his way
of thinking. I await your reply. A single line will
suffice."

Having read this impassioned effusion, Helene lost
not an instant in attempting a reply. Casting a shawl
over her shoulders and reopening the door, she bade
Monsieur go tell his master that in ten minutes she
would be dressed, and would come straight to that part
of the corridor into which his bedroom opened. " Tell
him there I will explain."

Mais, Mademoiselle, pas un mot de tendresse,"
pleaded Monsieur. " Sir Charle evidemment est au
dsespoir."

Say," cried she, blushing ; but here she paused, and

VOL. II. G

darted away like a kingfisher to her dressing-case,
there to seek an ivory tablet, on which she inscribed
the following words : 

The dove of old, with undeviating constancy, flew
back to the ark bearing a leaf of olive. In like manner
thine Helene flies to the haven of thy bosom,
bringing with her sweet assurance of hope, of peace, of
rest."

We should here mention that on the outer leaf or
covering of the pretty little French toy used by
Helene on this occasion, was exquisitely depicted a
branch of the olive-tree, with its pale green leaves, its
dusky fruit ; that beneath were inscribed the words 
Olive est le symbols de la paix."

Hence, doubtless, arose the girl's happy and instantaneous
mode of reassuring the heart of her Saint.

When her little message of peace had been indited,
with a grace, a rapidity equal to that of the brilliant
bird to which we but now compared her, the girl darted
towards Monsieur, and bade him, without a moment's
delay, place her pretty token in the hands of his master,
and say," added she, " that in a few minutes I myself
shall follow it."

And now, while these ten minutes are passing, I
will, with my reader's permission, carry him or her
into another apartment at Dessin's,  an apartment that
opens into the same secluded corridor as the bedroom
of Sir Charles,  an apartment that the impulsive and
unthinking Helene will be almost opposite to when
presently she discourses with her Saint.

Well, then, fair reader, look into this apartment, the
temporary lodging of a youthful and a noble poet. Seethe
round table with its tapestry covering,  the table
that has been drawn near to the log-wood fire that
burns brightly on the hearth. See, the small table is
strewn with scrawled pieces of paper. Teeming with
romance are these scattered fragments,  romance of no
mean character. See the young poet himself. Ah, we
have already once described him to thee ; there is no
need then to do so a second time. He is the identical
pale, yellow-haired, green-eyed lordling with whom
Helene had been so offended when on board the Calais
packet ! His father had gone forward on the route to
Paris the evening of the day on which we introduced
the twain. But the pale, dreamy poet had declared
himself too much done up just at present to proceed.

We strongly suspect, however, that not fatigue, but the
fantasies or the creations of the young man's brain had
condemned him to a temporary solitude at Dessin's,  a
solitude he so often coveted, so rarely could obtain when
living with his family. We have seen the Earl his father.
In appearance he hovered about equally between the
stage-coachman of his own day and the gentleman farmer
of ours. Eminently successful as a breeder of horses, of
cattle, an agriculturist on a large scale, he seemed determined
mankind, by his appearance, should read his
tastes, his sympathies at a glance. Yet withal, Lord
Bedingfield had a little touch of dignity in his character
and much real worth, and Charles Daubigny had found
him a very well-disposed, kind-hearted neighbour. My
Lady, the Earl's wife, presented the strongest contrast
possible to the Earl her husband. She was audacious-looking
and handsome, was a person of decided fashion,
and had condemned herself to the unceasing interruptions
of society. But one other child had this ill-assorted
pair besides their son, a girl of eighteen, who
seemed disposed accurately to follow in the footsteps of
mamma. What chance for a poetic dreamer closely
allied to three such people ! the Earl so matter-of-fact,
the Countess and her daughter so devoted to society.

But here, in this sombre retreat, this sweet snatch of
repose, our youthful poet may dream long and much ashe
lists. No one, he feels certain, nothing can interrupt
him.

Few, indeed, were the footsteps that passed his door.
Had they been more frequent, they had scarce disturbed,
they had fallen faint, subdued upon his dreamy senses.

For in that long and twilight corridor, with its double
matting thick laid on the oaken floor, sound was
hushed ; there reigned a silence almost mournful. He
had asked as an invalid for seclusion ; he had found it.

But destiny is imperious, and overrules man's most
cherished projects. The blind goddess gives her wheel
ever so little a turn, and that which we were but
yesterday we cease to be to-day.

The young Lord's door is by accident left ajar. He
is pacing his apartment ; his monotonous walk leads him
near to the aperture. He pauses. The music of a sweet,
sweet female voice, now raised in expostulation, now
sinking into accents of tenderness, of entreaty, reaches
him, mingles with it the harsher, lower, deeper voice
of one of the other sex. He gazes through the opening.
He recognises the little Gipsy in company of whom he
had so lately crossed the Channel. Pardon him if, unseen
by either speaker, he continues to gaze and to
listen. He does not catch more than a word now and
then, but he sees and hears enough to tell him that St.
Louis and Helene are discoursing on some subject to
themselves of the deepest interest.

Lord Brailsford had been struck by the girl's singular
beauty while he lay stretched on the deck of the
steamer. But now that he sees her in evening costume,
now that he beholds her off her guard, her loveliness,
her grace, her unstudied manner impress him far more
deeply. In his dreams to-night the nut-brown maid
shall mingle.

I need not relate the conversation that passed on this
occasion between Sir Charles and Helene. It will be

sufficient for me to tell my reader that the girl completely
succeeded in pacifying hex fiances jealous fears,
and that when dinner was ready, she entered the saloon
leaning fondly on the arm of her Saint. My next
chapter will show how they fared while at table.

As Helene and Sir Charles entered the saloon where
dinner was served, they both visibly started ; and almost
a shudder ran through the being, the heart of either, as
their eyes rested on the form of Graham. Carefully
got up for the occasion, he advanced towards them on
their entrance, and holding out a hand to St. Louis,
commenced a playful attack.

I have come to dine with you, Charles," he said.
You see I have seized the earliest opportunity of offering
my congratulations on our some-day-to-be nearer
relationship."

Sir Charles took the proffered hand in some doubt,
however, as to whether this salutation was the harbinger
of peace or of war.

You must be the most fascinating fellow in Europe,
nay, in the world, Charles," continued the fighting-cock
sarcastically. " You have absolutely turned my little
chick's head. I am not gifted with female volubility,
and therefore cannot repeat the catalogue of your virtues
she," pointing to Helene, " can pour forth on the
instant. It will suffice to say that you are her earth,
her heaven, all she desires here, hereafter."

Sir Charles really smiled, nay, almost laughed.

She cares no more for me now' continued Graham,
than for an old shoe ; throws me over."

Papa," cries the girl, " this is not true. Did I not
say that my heart should be yours as well as his ?"

Facts speak louder than words, Pussy. When a
girl marries, does she still live with her father ?"

I shall love you equally," cries Helene impetuously.
Just as I love you, so will I love him."

Excellent !" cries Graham. " Do you hear that,
Charles ? Will a daughter's devotion satisfy you ? By
the way, I have been thinking it should be my first care
now to assume a new dignity in honour of my wealthy
and distinguished son-in-law ; dignity, solemnity of
carriage, of manner. And on the wedding-day, to
testify of my reverend age, I shall assume a life-long
white peruke ; while to you, Charles, I recommend the
adoption of a curly flaxen wig, suited to the years the
bridegroom should carry."

I fear the flaxen wig would ill suit with my
wrinkles," murmurs Charles Daubigny, laughing.

Oh," retorts Graham, " Garrick, as we read in Boswell's
Life of Johnson, when he wanted to play the young
lover, had his wrinkles filled up. I have no doubt the
fellow who used to practise upon him has had several
successors, the last of whom, Charles, will be only too
happy to convert you into an Adonis for the occasion."

Papa, papa," cries the girl, " I will not eat any
dinner until you end your badinage. Yes, I will go
away out of the room."

I beg pardon of the future Lady Daubigny," says
George, profoundly bowing. "I will endeavour to

restrain my imagination and my tongue. Such a great
lady in embryo must be obeyed !"

I beg pardon of the future Lord Gartmore, but I
insist that he conduct himself with a view to the lofty
position he so covets to fill."

"What a pity' cries the fighting-cock sarcastically,
"that I cannot grasp the prize before your marriage
comes off, my love. It would sound well enough :
Sir Charles Daubigny, of Brierly Park, to Helene, only
child of the Earl of Gartmore."

"I am quite satisfied with what may and should
appear," murmured St. Louis. " It sounds well enough :
Charles Daubigny to Helene, only child of George
Rochford Leslie Graham  "

Of Wodeburn, if you please," added the fighting-cock
slowly and impressively.

"That would be a little premature should say,"
remarked our master, with a smile of amusement at
his old rival's never-dying pride and vanity.

Not so," retorted Graham seriously and haughtily.
I told Helene that only on condition she bided my
time would I consent. My time is when I am no
longer a beggar ; my time is when I have a house of
my own, from which the future Lady Daubigny may
marry, may depart without discredit to herself or
remark from the world."

"My dear George," cries Sir Charles, thoroughly
aroused, and unable longer to be so resolutely passive,
"my dear George, you really cannot insist on such
hard, such almost impossible conditions. Am I then
to be under the cruel necessity of wishing a fellow-creature

removed to another world? You would not
desire to lay such a sin to my door?"

"Poor soul," answered Graham, with a touch of
feeling in his voice, " poor soul, she will not tarry very
long on earth, not long enough to my way of thinking ;
for I must beg to remind you, Charles, that you have
stolen, or rather are about to steal, a very child from
me. Can you not wait till the girl has finished her
growth ? For aught you or I know, she may be inches
taller before the year is out."

Nonsense, papa," cries Helene, " I cannot grow
any more; I am, indeed, a woman quite. Do not I
look like a woman?" turning naively to hevfiancd.

"Yes, love," murmured our master, "and a very
charming one too."

Ah, that pretty compliment," cries Graham, laughing.
" But now, seriously, we have done with the matrimonial
affair; it is settled, subject tu my conditions.
I shall hold you to be lovers ; and I most strenuously
recommend you, Charles, to make hay while the sunshines,
make your mind easy, eat and drink, walk
with the girl, try and gain strength. Indeed, I am
not joking."

They saw that George was indeed serious. He
continued 

The poor soul, as the doctor tells me, cannot last
long."

People with this complaint do survive for years,"
remarked the irritated lover.

Not in the state she is ; it is too terrible to
describe. All the same, she is bent on getting to

Dover, there to breathe her last. She talks of moving
next week. You two, then, had better look about you,
for this is Thursday ; better see what you can, do what
you can meantime. The pier is an excellent place to
walk on, Charles; the sea breeze will give you an
appetite."

Stephen Leigh, by courtesy Lord Brailsford, had
known Charles Daubigny by sight, had known him
as his father's acquaintance and near neighbour for
several years, yet never once in that time had he given
to our master more than a passing bow.

But now, now he must needs know him better.
The young Lord had ascertained from his servant, who
previously had heard it from Monsieur St. Amour, that
Helene was the proudie of Sir Charles, that she was
staying with him in the hotel ; and, in confirmation of
this statement, Lord Brailsford, as we know, had himself
seen her alone with Sir Charles on board the
Calais steamer.

Further the romantic, the dreamy poet inquired not.
All that he craved for was to get an introduction to the
girl, and to gain this introduction he must seek to be
better acquainted with her protector or her guardian.

To most young men this would have been no difficult
matter, but it was a difficulty to one of Stephen's
peculiar temperament. He was naturally indolent,
naturally reserved and shy. He was not apt at creating
conversation, while the delicacy of his health had debarred
him alike from school and from college life.

For no ordinary pnpose had Lord Brailsford given
himself the trouble of making an acquaintance, but a
strong, a sudden, an irresistible impulse condemned
him now to exertion, to loquacity.

Stephen, in fact, at this particular time, reminds meas
I write of the tortoise mentioned by Gilbert White
in his Melbourne,  the tortoise that would lie inactive,
dreamy, almost immovable at other seasons of the year,
yet in the season of love, touched, influenced by irresistible
instinct, would steal away in search of a companion
with a rapidity, a perseverance, a determination
pertaining to a creature of a higher class.

Lord Brailsford is alone in his apartment at Dessin's,
is in possession of the silence, the seclusion he has
been so ardently coveting to obtain. He takes up his
but half-completed poem, the subject a romantic love-story.
He begins a new verse, but scarce two words
are added when, involuntarily, he is dreaming, musing
not of the fair, the snowy nymph, the heroine of his
composition, but of the little Gipsy who has crossed
his path to mar, to frustrate his most cherished project.
He casts down his pen ; he takes two or three turns up
and down the silent corridor ; he returns to his table.
Again he tries his hand, but his brain is restive as a
stubborn mule; it will only go one way, it will not
do its appointed work. Impatiently he pushes the
paper from him. He stands musing by the window.
Presently what does he see ? Sir Charles crossing the
court-yard of the hotel with Helene ! They are going-out
for a walk.

With a new-born, an unwonted rapidity, Stephen

arranges his yellow hair, casts on his overcoat, finds
his gloves, his walking cane, and prepares to follow in
the wake of Helene and our master.

In the corridor he encounters Sir Charles's valet.
He asks of this servile stranger,  oh what an effort
had this been but the week before !  he asks of the
man if he knows which way our master has gone.

To the pier, my Lor'. Sir Charle demand of me to
ask de way."

The young Lord, thanking Monsieur, also directs his
steps towards the pier.

When he reaches it, Sir Charles and Helene are at
the further end. They turn, they are walking slowly
back. Stephen was near-sighted ; he puts up his glass,
however ; he gazes on the witching Gipsy as she returns
along the pier's long length.

The breeze blew her dress a little rudely. What
feet, what ankles, nay, what a form is displayed, for
the wind blew fresh enough to betray the graceful
outline of the girl's voluptuous figure.

Presently Helene and our master come so near that
Stephen takes off his hat and bows. Then a little
thrill runs through the being of Lord Brailsford at his
own audacity as he ventures, for the first time in his
life, to hold out a hand to his father's friend and
neighbour.

Sir Charles, recalling Helene's dislike to the appearance,
the manner of the young Lord, was somewhat
amused. With a smile on his lips, the knowledge of
her dislike in his mind, he heartily, kindly returned the
greeting, saying an instant after, " Your father is not

here. I inquired. I was told that he left almost immediately
for Paris."

Yes, but I was not well enough to accompany him.
I have been here quite alone since."

Stephen had hoped that Charles Daubigny would
introduce him to the young girl his companion, but in
this he was disappointed. Though they took several
turns together up and down the pier, he was not to
have the pleasure he sought. However, as they promenaded,
urged to invention, to exertion, by his growing
passion, Lord Brailsford hit on a scheme which should
bring them together again next day. The gate at Calais
with the English motto on it was at this time still ina
state of preservation. Sir Charles had never seen it ;
Lord Brailsford had been taken to see it when at Calais
as a boy. He asked permission on the morrow to show
the way. Graciously and kindly Charles Daubigny
assented.

In illustration of Helene's progressive ideas of Lord
Brailsford's character and appearance, we will give the
following conversation between herself and Sir Charles,
which took place the evening of the day on which they
all three walked together to inspect the last remaining
token of Old England in Calais.

Well, what did you think of the young fellow this
morning ?" asked Charles Daubigny. " Does he improve
on acquaintance?"

Young fellow !" cries Helene, laughing, " call him
rather the young female. I am quite certain if he were
dressed as a girl he would pass for one."

Bather tall, rather lank I should say."

Oh, many women are as tall and, I dare say, as
thin too ; only, you know, they are so artificial, it does
not show when they are dressed."

Well, but what do you think of him as to beauty ?
Has he still, in your estimation, the same odious and
offensive green eyes?"

His eyes ! Oh, they are not really quite green ;
they are green shot with blue. As I looked at them
this morning, I remember they reminded me of a tomtit
in the sun."

Then he has improved, or you have somewhat relented
in your first hastily-given judgment."

I was angry with him when we were crossing,
because I thought his manner impudent, disrespectful."

Not much impudence in him, I should say. From
all I have heard at Brierly, he was the shyest boy, the
most inoffensive lad."

Ah," cries Helene, laughing, " I can see that you are
prejudiced in his favour. I hope it is not because he
is the son of my neighbour the Earl."

No, not that at all, though I have indeed a great
partiality for his father, s I have found Lord Being
invariably the most sincere, straightforward person.
I like him, because I can believe every word that he
speaks."

And because you like the father, you must needs
take a fancy to the delicate female his son ?  Never
were two human beings so opposite, at least in appearance."


Well, Helene, let us hope that our new acquaintance

has a heart as simple and sincere as his father. If I
had not known what a shy retiring lad he is, I might
have attributed his former distant manner to pride.
But I never was offended at his keeping aloof, because
I know that he sought no one more than myself."

You call him a lad," cries Helene ; " that means a
trifle more than a boy. Is he scarcely more than a boy ?
If so, I will forgive one of his shortcomings."

"He certainly is not twenty one yet. No, I think
he is but little past twenty."

Well, then, possibly the shadow on his upper lip
may yet become at least down," continues Helene ; then
added mirthfully, " I really believe I have as much
sign of a moustache as he."

Nonsense, child ! "

But there is indeed just a something on my lip ; I
see it when I look into the glass. Can't you see it
now ?" says the simple girl, bending down close before
the tall waxen candle closer to Sir Charles.

Let me look a little closer still," answers our master,
and casting his arm about her neck, he perpetrated his
first kiss upon her rosy lips.

I will never ask you to examine me again," murmurs
the girl petulantly, and rising hastily from her
seat.

What is all this about ?" absently inquires Graham,
who, at the far end of their saloon, was poring over a
letter received but now concerning his peerage case.

I was only lecturing your daughter on her determination
to make game of poor Lord Brailsford. As
one day he will be, as it were, her next-door neighbour,

VOL. 11. H

it is a pity she should feel so evilly disposed," answered
Charles Daubigny, his great dark eyes attesting the
momentary delight he had tasted, the tone of his voice
as calm as he could render it.

Graham's ears always attend at the mention of a Lord,
he now took part in the conversation.

How absurd, Helene," he said, " to feel a prejudice
against a young fellow of his rank, of whom, too, you
really can know nothing."

"Eh bien," cries the girl, playfully yet spitefully,
for she was angry with Sir Charles for having assumed
for a moment his mortality, "voyez done. You are
both so anxious I should do him honour, that, if ever I
am reigning at Brierly, I promise you I will see what
I can make of him. With a little teasing, a little
coaxing, he might advance amazingly."

He is not quite such a ninny, Helene, as you may
imagine," remarks Charles Daubigny. " I have seen
him clear a fence as neatly as his father."

Clear a fence ! You don't mean to say that he
can ride?"

Bide ! ay, child. But how could he help himself,
with a pack of hounds under his nose from the very
cradle, and with such a father to lead the way ?"

Lord Bedingfield, then, is a sportsman ?"

An inveterate sportsman."

"And a farmer too," cries Helene, sportively and
wickedly, " and a great breeder of cattle, and notorious
for his sheep and his pigs. Tell me, tell me, isn't your
noble friend also a drover ? Doesn't he drive his own
cattle to market? Nay, confess that he does more.

Confess that when he gets there he helps with his own
lordly hands to pen in his own squeaking pigs, his own
baaing lambs."

You 've a little overshot the mark, my love,"
answers our master, " a little. But you are quite right
in supposing that my neighbour does occasionally
attend the cattle-market. He is not a cruel man, and
he tells me that his object in occasionally appearing in
our market-place is to prevent, if possible, the inhumanities
that are practised by those who have charge
of the poor beasts. And pray, Helene, do you mean to
count this as a sin in the great man ?"

No indeed," answered the girl. " I honour him
for a mercy, a pity so very few possess or practise, and
I do not count any of his peculiarities as sins. There
is no affectation in Lord Bedingfield. His appearance
denotes what he is ; but for the pale-faced lackadaisical
son, there is not the same to be said. If, as you tell
me, he can so neatly clear a fence, how can he be nearsighted
? Surely he cannot leap with a glass in his
eye ? For aught I know, his effeminacy is counterfeit,
his delicacy a pretence, his ailments but imaginary. I
might hear next that if he pleased he could skate, row,
cricket, shoot;  that thing that looks like a flower
condemned to grow, to put forth its sickly blossom in
the shade ; that thing that reminds me of a peach that
never had a ray of sun to give it taste or colour. If I
were to grow more intimate with Lord Brailsford, and
he were to complain to me of his health, I should tell
him that his cure would be to drink beer and bask in a
noon-day sun."

My dear Helene," whispered our master, " because
for a single moment I trespassed, you need not visit my
sin on poor Lord Brailsford. I know that he is nearsighted.
I know that his health is very delicate, so
much so as to cause his parents great anxiety. As
for his appearance, you have too good a heart, my love,
I am sure, to dislike him for that. Would to God I
might be able to count, indeed, upon the day, the hour,
when my little queen would be installed at Brierly,
when she might be offering hospitality to our neighbour,
when playfully I might hear her bid the poor fellow
quaff his beer and come bask with her in the summer
sun. Ah, Helene, there is a southern terrace there all
of fine shaven green, descending step by step to a
French garden full of flowers. You would delight in
summer-time to saunter on this terrace-walk. The
view from it is perfect, the perfume of the flowers
comes stealing up. Shall I ever live to see you there ?
Shall I ever witness such a consummation of my hope ?
If you could read my soul, behold all its trembling
fear, its dread anxiety lest the cup of earthly joy be
dashed away, you would not be so angry at my only
and my momentary trespass."

I will not be caught hold of and kissed against my
will," cries Helene, softly yet vehemently. " I do not
like being snared, caught like a bird in a trap. You
should do it pompously," she added, laughing, "just as
Sir Charles Grandison would have done it. First you
should make me a courtly bow, and then solemnly kiss
my hand."

"Your hand!"

My hand. People of condition and good breeding
court that way."

But it seems to me that our courtship may be
infinite. The poor soul, as your father calls her, may
outlive me, for aught I know, by years."

It was happy for our Helene that Fortune, as if in
some measure to efface the brand of shame she had seton
the young girl at her birth, that token of sin the
child of earth must carry until death releases from its
pressure,  it was happy for our Helene that destiny,
as if to make amends for this painful distinction,
should have bestowed upon her a protector, a lover so
devoted, so honourable, and so wealthy as Charles
Daubigny ; that, amid all her past, her present humiliations,
the young girl had yet the haven of his bosom
to rest in ; that if death laid not too soon its cold hand
upon that of our master, she might confidently look
forward to the day of her marriage as a day that would
bring a sudden and a great alleviation of her everlasting
sorrow. Thenceforth she would have a
defined position in the world, while the excellence of
her husband's character, and his fortune and unblemished
descent, would cast as it were a bright reflection
on herself. Our Helene would no longer be the
obscure, unconfessed, outcast child that she had been.
These are words scarcely too strong to use in her case,
for even till now no member of her father's or her
mother's family had vouchsafed to acknowledge her
existence. Helene's very being had, in fact, been
hushed up alike by the Grahams and the Vanes.

Ever thinking of, ever anxious about the girl's forlorn
position, ever striving to lighten, to lessen the
dark shadow that he knew it cast on her young heart,
Sir Charles took Graham aside the very day after our
fighting cock had indulged in so much raillery on the
subject of the marriage. Our master, we say, took his
future father-in-law aside the very day after the comic
scene had occurred which we have described, to inquire
of him whether he thought the auld aunt might not now,
even at the eleventh hour, be induced to recognise
Helene as her great-niece.

You must excuse my freedom, my interference,"
murmured Charles Daubigny, " but do you not think
that Mrs. Stapleton should be informed that we are
here? Ought she not to have the knowledge that
Helene is near her ? Possibly, were she to know that
your daughter is living in the same hotel as herself,
she might desire to see her."

A cloud stole over Graham's fine countenance, the
colour on his cheek deepened, nay, even rose to his
lofty brow as he listened. With averted eyes, with a
voice full of pain, of humiliation, he spoke in reply,
To tell you the truth, Charles, I dare not propose
such a thing, and I may as well confess to you at once
a yet more cruel fact, I dare never refer to my child's
existence. It is a subject ignored by each of us. This is
my auld aunt's crazy point." Graham was moving away.

Stay one minute, George. Do you think if Mrs.
Stapleton knew that  that Helene is engaged, that it
might make a difference ? "

None, none in the world. The hatred she conceived

for my poor wife seems almost to have been transferred
to her child."

"And is it possible," exclaimed Charles Daubigny
with such feelings so unlike Christian charity, "is it
possible she can contemplate her approaching death
with calmness ?"

George smiled derisively. " Charles, you do not
know the mistake that my aunt has always laboured
under. I was not the offender. Poor Helene was the
sinner, the crafty, the designing woman who tore me
from every holy tie  that is, from my aunt's embrace.
It was poor Helene who caused me to set the world ina
blaze, and for her sake I became an exile, an outcast.
I have tried more than once to convince her to the
contrary, but I might as well talk to a rock, and my
words only irritate and agitate the poor creature to the
last degree. You had been a wiser man, Charles,"
added Graham, his fine manly voice touched by melancholy,
"you had been a wiser man, Charles, to have
cast anchor somewhere else, and left such troubled
waters alone. You will meet with another mad
antagonist in your sister-in-law. She will pronounce
precisely such another verdict on the hapless woman
I ruined, you loved too well."

So thick and fast came sad memories back on the
mind of either man, that for a little space both remained
silent. At length Charles Daubigny, with a hoarse
and scarcely steady voice, murmured forth, " The more
enemies, and the bitterer they are, that the dead and
the living have, the more it determines me. George,
you could have told me nothing, nothing so likely to

add to my devotion. How hideously unjust is an
infatuated woman ! "

It is no use talking on a subject so trying," said
Graham, his eyes averted. " We cannot live our young
lives over again. And you are resolved ; and I cannot
but feel a gratitude for your tenderness to Helene,
which I have not before expressed. But remember,
always remember, if storm beset you, if sorrow come of
the marriage, you have had from me warning enough
to deter almost any other man."

Graham, evidently a prey to better recollection and
contrition, left Charles Daubigny to his sad thoughts.
But oh ! what lighter burden had our master to bear ?

From the day on which Lord Brailsford had walked
with Helene and Charles Daubigny to look at the last
relic of Old England in Calais, the yet "girl-like"
young man had shown a boldness and a tact which told
that the mind or the heart was not slumbering, but was
far in advance of his effeminate appearance.

But Stephen, instead of worshipping the ideal as
heretofore, was now in pursuit of our little Gipsy, and
bent all his energies to accomplish his purpose. He
wanted to grow familiar and easy with the girl. He
wanted to be on these terms with her, too, without
remark, and contrived, by directing his discourse
apparently or at most to our master, wholly to lull
all suspicion. It was wonderful how well Stephen
managed and succeeded. But then Stephen had a
mind, and he gave his whole mind to the establishment
of a friendship betwixt himself and his father's next-door
neighbour. Moreover, he had the little god's
torch to light him.

It is true that, as yet, there had been but an outdoor
acquaintance ; for Sir Charles felt it would be an
awkward thing to invite Lord Brailsford to luncheon or

to dinner, to find Helene alone with her fiance, and he
scarce dare propose to Graham to meet his young
friend. For Graham at present desired no recognition
of himself in his proper character, and perhaps still
more had he disliked to have been identified as the late
bailiff or steward at Avonmore. Hence our fighting-cock
was usually invisible ; he lay hidden in or near
the auld aunt's sick-room, as we once said before,
like a rabbit in its burrow or a lion in its den.

But now the last day of their stay at Dessin's had
arrived. To-morrow they were all to depart, and
Charles Daubigny could not help feeling a little embarrassed,
a little uneasy in his mind, for he thought
if he did not once invite Lord Brailsford to dine with
him, it would seem inhospitable, remarkable.

What should he do ? He could but put the case
before Graham ; he could but ask him to be present.
And he had a faint shadow of a hope of success, for
well our master knew George's passion for a Lord.
So at breakfast-time, when Graham usually looked
in upon his future son-in-law and his daughter, the
question was put and consent obtained. The Lord was
too much for even Graham's obstinate determination.

A note was written to Lord Brailsford,  written on
the spur of the moment. St. Amour was ordered to
deliver and to wait. He had not long to wait. Lord
Brailsford's ready pen indited in a second his happiness
in obeying the summons.

Great was the young man's surprise at being introduced
by Sir Charles to Helene's father. A little
colour for a moment suffused his pale cheek, which

couleur de rose fading away, left his countenance more
wan than ever.

Graham was looking his best, and was most
courteous, keeping his spurs quite out of sight. But
our fighting-cock, nevertheless, soon found that he
could make but little way with the master's guest.

Lord Brailsford, naturally shy, was rather afraid of
the tall, upright, handsome, dare-devil sort of man that
Graham seemed to be. He was also greatly troubled
at finding that Helene had attached to her such a formidable
appendage.

The very excellent dinner was duly served, tasted,
and carried off ; and soon after, as a matter of course,
Helene withdrew.

Wine-drinking was not yet exploded. Our trio,
therefore, drank their wine ; and the effeminate-looking
young fellow, strange as it may seem, proved
to be quite an fait at this work.

But then, as our master remarked about the riding,
with such a father " who could help being well
seasoned, for Lord Bedingfield was as great a conviviality
as he was a sportsman.

A message at length was carried to the gentlemen
announcing that tea was ready, and the three, tolerably
well charged, joined our ever solitary Helene. There
she sat, when they appeared, how bright, how beautiful
in her solitude ! Ah ! perhaps she scarcely felt so
much this absence of womankind, for when had she
known the reverse ?

The girl made the tea, and was careful, as she always
was, to make the two cups for her Saint quite to his

taste. Sir Charles hated bad tea. It always put him
out of humour to have carelessly made tea.

And the tea was over, and poor Lord Brailsford had
never managed to have one private word with Helene,
as he had hoped to have done on this their last time of
meeting. He was growing desperate. His yet boy-like
soul was dark with despair. He could hear the
gilt clock on the marble slab chiming a quarter-past
ten. He could not be brazen enough to prolong his
visit. He was about to rise and wish them all goodnight,
when lo ! to his relief, he saw Graham and Sir
Charles seat themselves at a little table rather apart
from where Helene was sitting. He saw Graham with
a pencil and a paper putting down some particulars for
Sir Charles relating to the morrow's journey. Stephen
seized the happy opportunity. Approaching our little
Gipsy, he said, in a low tone, " I am going very soon,
and I very much fear there is but slight chance of our
ever meeting again."

Why so ?" asked Helene, somewhat surprised.

Until this evening I never knew you had a father
living. I thought Sir Charles Daubigny was your
guardian."

But I do not see why papa's existence is for ever
to separate us," said Helene playfully.

"Your father  " He paused, he hesitated, but recovering
his self-possession, he added, " will carry you
I know not whither. I had hoped that we might
have met again at Brierly."

"And so, fortune not forbidding, and you desiring,
we may."

When ? Forgive my curiosity. When ? "

"Ah, when !" echoed the girl. " There is, indeed, no
certainty of our meeting there at present."

But in the mist of the future there is a ray of
hope?" eagerly he asked.

"Yes."

Will your father bring you there on a visit ? "

No," cries she, smiling, " I do not think so."

Will you be there alone with Sir Charles ?"

If I ever am there."

And suppose I were in London at the time, I might
never know."

I promise you," said Helene, " as you seem desirous
of meeting with me again, I promise, if ever I am at
Brierly, to send you a token ; that is, if you are not
in some outlandish region."

You promise this ?"

I said I promise to send you a token. Well, I
mean that Sir Charles shall send you one."

The young Lord looked a little sad, nay, he looked
very sad, and his voice was sadder. " You said I;
now 'tis but he. Tell me, if any message reaches me,
will it be sent by your own desire ?"

I promise it shall be sent with my best good will."

The auld aunt was unreasonable on more points than
one. She was quite determined to leave Calais.

If I die the next day," she said, " I must go. I
cannot die in peace here. It is not only that I am ina
foreign country, but I do not choose to die in an hotel."

She was so determined that George had to write
forthwith and order fires to be set going,  a fire in
every room in the house he had taken for her, No. 2
Marine Parade. But this was not all he had to do.
Charles Daubigny would not quit Helene, and Helene
must not be left alone with her betrothed at Dessin's.

Graham must write and inquire if No. 1 or No. 3
could be hired furnished,  could be had immediately.
Sir Charles would make a temporary home of either
house. The reply came that No. 1, the corner house,
just vacated, was not only perfectly in order, but was
even well aired. Sir Charles jumped at the offered
prize ; and when Graham thought of remonstrating as
to the guineas demanded per week, considering that in
this the winter season the price asked was exorbitant,
our man of wealth would not hear of remonstrance.

Probably my reader never lived in, or never made
an accurate survey of the Marine Parade, Dover, about
the year 1835. The writer, however, can speak from
experience, having herself passed a few weeks of her
childhood in the corner house No. 1. At this time (I
write in perfect ignorance of what Dover may be now),
at this time, exactly facing the hall door of No. 1, on
the beach side, was a large low-built room, a sort of
lounging room, attached to the rambling, irregular
buildings of the principal bathing establishment in
Dover. Presiding over this bathing establishment was
a woman in such poor circumstances that she actually
condescended to dip with her own hands the lady
bathers in the sea. In the morning, during the sea-bathing
months, this amphibious creature wore a coarse

blue woollen dress, and I have seen her unceremoniously
perambulating the Parade with the salt water
drip, drip, drip from the blue flannel as she went. Butin
the afternoon the watery tokens of her office were
laid aside. The raven and dishevelled locks that had
fallen in their abundance below her waist, and had
been dancing on the waves, were dried, braided,
coiled around her head. The loose blue garment gave
place to one that displayed perfectly her well-shaped
supple form, and, above all, the feet, the ankles that
had waded through the surge, came out in wondrous
glory. Clad in black silk of gauziest texture were the
ankles ; her pretty feet in shoes of first Parisian make.

When the auld aunt insisted on leaving Calais,
there happened to be stationed at Dover a certain
regiment of riflemen. Amongst the officers were some
specially distinguished by birth, by fortune, and, I may
add, by levity of conduct. The lounging-room of the
bathing establishment was the favourite haunt of these
young idlers, their great attraction thither the mer-maiden
presiding.

What was there so alluring in this nymph of the
ocean ? Dark browed, dark-eyed, swart as an Indian,
past her girlhood, who shall explain ?

The dark-browed Venus had a husband. He was,
however, invisible ; he was bedridden. She had to
make her own way in the world, and acute to the last
degree, she had become house-agent as well as fore-woman
of the bathing establishment.

Graham had taken No. 2 through or from her. By
the auld aunt's direction he had written to Mrs.

Stapleton's clerical friend at Dover, stating that she
required a furnished house, and asking advice as to
the best situation. The parson had given the name
and address of the lady president of the marine bathing
establishment. When Sir Charles informed his future
father-in-law that he too must have a house in the
Marine Parade, if possible adjoining No. 2, what could
be more reasonable apparently than to apply to the
woman who had already supplied Mrs. Stapleton?
Accordingly George had addressed the mermaids,
stating that if No. 1 or No. 3 could be had, a friend of
his would take it immediately. He was foolish enough
to add, at the suggestion of Sir Charles, that it was a
case of urgent necessity that the houses should adjoin
each other. The wily creature to whom the application
was made saw that she herself could make something
out of this case of urgent necessity, and in returning
an answer clapped on to the customary rent six extra
guineas per week.

Facts are often as strange, as dramatic as the wildest
fiction. How, it may be asked, was it possible that
Helene, living in the same hotel as her father's aunt,
should remain unknown to her ? Nay more, how was
it possible that the auld aunt should not have known
that the girl was in the hotel ?

In Mrs. Stapleton's case illness was one barrier to
such knowledge. She had never left the suite of rooms
at Des sin's that on her first arrival she had been carried
to. But, it will be said, surely the old butler who
travelled with her would mention the circumstance ?

But no, he was too well up in all the family secrets ;
he was perfectly aware of the intense hatred Mrs.
Stapleton had felt for Helene's mother, and wishing
from motives of selfishness to prolong his mistress's life,
would not intrude a subject so agitating. Then her
maid or woman-attendant was equally conversant with
the miserable history of Graham and Helene Yane, and
as much interested as the old butler in keeping her
mistress in this world and from all obnoxious influences.
They both knew that the girl was in the hotel, but in
the presence of their mistress never alluded to her
existence.

I have seen a stranger thing myself than this. I
have seen two near relatives meet in a party, in the
same room, who, on account of a family grievance, had
never met before. They passed each other, they sat
near each other, they departed from each other that
evening as much strangers as though no family tie held
them inviolably linked together. In Helene's case
there was a blot, a blemish which might, in fact, invalidate
her claim to relationship, but in the case I witnessed
no circumstance of this nature could be pleaded.

And now, having settled that facts can indeed wear
an air of improbability, we proceed with our story.

The morning of departure from Dessin's hotel and
from Calais has arrived. The auld aunt, wasted to a
living skeleton, is carried by her nephew and the butler
from her couch to a carriage waiting at the hotel door.
The maid has previously prepared the carriage for the
poor invalid's reception, by placing a long sofa-cushion
from seat to seat, and by placing pillows on which she

VOL. 11. I

may recline. The carriage starts with Graham, the
maid, the butler attending. It reaches the pier. Presently
the poor creature is carried in like manner to
her own carriage placed on the steamer's deck, and
which had been beforehand carefully arranged inside
for her accommodation. Ah, now she is safe in !
Overcome by the exertion, she sinks back on her pillows,
closes her eyes, so that when Charles Daubigny
and Helene arrive, attended by Mrs. Bird and Monsieur
St. Amour, she knows no more of their presence onboard
the vessel than if she were indeed a corpse
already. Another little being has been added to Sir
Charles's train. Helene carries in her arms a dog, a
very miniature but full-grown pug, with jet black eyes
and nose. Graham had seen it for sale in Calais. An
Englishman, a wild and rakish-looking fellow, was
standing about with several first-class dogs for sale.
George longed to buy them all, for he was passionately
fond of dogs, and he believed quite that they were dogs
stolen in England and sent over to Calais lest they
might be recognised and claimed in our own land. But
he restrained his love and his pity as much as he could,
and only carried off the little creature we mention.
Sir Charles thought the pug a. nuisance. The girl,
charmed with her new pet, carried it half the day. It
made her more restless, more childish, more playful
than ever. He wished that Graham had not put into
her arms a toy so inimical to his peace. However, at
present he must submit, and so he resigned himself to
the incumbrance as placidly as he could.

The morning was fine, the passage calm, and the

auld aunt bore her transmigration far better than
could have been expected.

Without entering into minuter details, we need only-say
that by early dinner-time (five o'clock) Sir Charles
and Helene were seated together in the drawing-room
of No. 1, the latter hungry from the absence of her
customary luncheon, anxiously expecting the moment
when St. Amour should appear at the door and pompously
declare, " Le diner est servi." At length the man
and the moment arrive, and the lightsome steps of
youth and health, and the staid steps of middle age
and care and gravity, descend the straight ugly staircase
of No. 1.

We must admit that after the placid and well served
dinners they had lately been having at Dessin's, this
first dinner in the hired house struck each of the twain
as having a peculiar air of zingaree about it. The mer-maiden
had volunteered to find cook, house, and kitchen
maid. They were all strangers and strange to their
work. They knew not where to find this, that, and the
other, while some essentials had not been provided at
all. The bathing woman had also volunteered to find
linen for the household at No. 1 ; her offer had been
accepted, and the table-cloth she had provided was not
only coarse in texture, but too small for the diningroom
table. Helene laughed at it ; not so her fiancd.

Looking first at the table and then a St. Amour, he
gravely said, " This will not do at all. Mrs. Bird must
write to her niece for linen."

St. Amour, shrugging his shoulders, answers, " De
cook no do better than de cloth, Sir Charle. Elize" (so

the Frenchman always called Eliza, their London
cook), " Elize "bring de linen. Pardon, mais la cuisine
abominable."

Just so," answers our master. " I must see Mrs.
Bird before the post goes out. Eliza might come very-well.
A sort of treat for her, too, to be with her aunt
at the sea-side."

"Ah, oui," cries Monsieur, his little soul rejoicing
over the prospect of having his own gourmand propensities
properly attended to, "ah, oui, justement;"
then taking up a spoon the same amphibious lady had
furnished, " Et ceci ?"

Ah, yes ; some plate too," murmurs Sir Charles.
Yes, indeed, these things," looking at his own plated
fork, " these things are indeed unfit."

Monsieur bowed his approval. But he had not
done yet. " Elize conduct de linen and de plate. Mais
ce n'est pas pour moi, Sir Charle, ce n'est pas pour moi,
jour par jour to clean de silver, lay de cloth."

Oh !" ejaculated our poor master, " I had not indeed
remembered. Cannot we find some man here ?"

St. Amour shrugged his shoulders. " When dere be
two idle, and glad of de sea."

Which of the two would be the most provoking,
thinks Sir Charles, the fool James or the wide-awake
Tummas ? " Mrs. Bird shall bid Eliza bring James
presently," he said.

Monsieur bowed and smiled. The fool was the slave
he desired. With such additions he thought he might
exist, even at No. 1 Marine Parade.

After dinner was over, and Sir Charles and Helene

had returned to the drawing-room up-stairs, Helene,
instead of fondling her middle-aged lover, took to cos-seeing
her pug. But the lively pug would not, could
not lie still all day. He was determined now to have a
change ; fixing his little white teeth in one of Helene's
ribbons on her dress, he as good as said, " Get up ; play
with me." The child-like girl could not resist, and pug
and she have taken to romping, the dog to barking.

My dear, do put the pug away," cries Sir Charles,
and let us have a little quiet."

I shall be back in a minute," answers the Gipsy. " I
will just run and put the dog in my own room, and
come back and be as grave as une colombe gemissante."

Go, dear ; but indeed I do not want you to be
mournful."

The door closed. Sir Charles, very weary, reclines on
the sofa. He shuts his eyes ; he falls into a little nap.

Meantime Helene, remembering that the dog ought
to have a walk out-doors before night, and knowing
that Mrs. Bird was too busy unpacking to take it outruns
up to her room, puts on her hat and ruby mantle,
and steals down stairs softly, softly on tip toe. She
opens the hall door, flies like a gazelle over the pebbly
beach, and is presently dancing like the waves beside
her for the benefit and the pleasure of her pug. They
execute (as she believes, unseen) the prettiest capers
imaginable. But she knows that she dare not caper any
longer. To be absent long would give offence to her
Saint, so now she sets her face homewards. Presently
she sees a man on the beach in rifle uniform, who
appears to be watching her. He comes nearer, he bows.

You forget me," he says gaily and confidently, " you
forget me. But having once seen you, it is impossible
to forget. Can you not recall Tresham Daubigny's
friend Mostyn ?"

The girl, starting as though she had seen a spectre,
repeated the words, " Captain Mostyn ?"

The very same," he said, gazing full upon her.
And you are here," he added, smiling in a peculiar
manner, " with Tresham's uncle, Sir Charles Daubigny."

How did you know this ? " faintly asked Helene.

The woman who let the house told me so only an
hour or two ago. She not only lets houses, but presides
here," pointing to the bathing establishment. " She is
a great pal of mine."

I cannot stay one moment," murmurs the girl,
Sir Charles will perhaps be vexed ; he does not even
know that I am out of the house."

Does he keep his little bird so closely caged ?" asks
Mostyn, accompanying his words with a glance, free
and bold.

Helene did not like the Captain's manner ; she did
not answer. Bowing to him, she ran up the beach
into the house. She had purposely left the hall door
ajar, so that she need not ring or knock to get in again.
On tip-toe she stole up the stairs, put her pug into his
basket, put herself to rights, and then, fresh as an opening
rosebud, stole back into the drawing-room.

Oh, what a mercy ! She finds our master reclining
on the sofa ; his eyes are closed, he breathes softly, but
with deep-drawn breath. She sees, she knows that he
is asleep. For a moment she contemplates her fiancd

with a peculiar interest ; she had never seen him asleep
before. Their future connection comes across her mind
and startles her. She knew not how to realise, or
rather how to dare to dwell upon it.

But the present soon diverts her thoughts from that
which she always regards as a thing of the far-off misty
future. And even while she sits watching beside her
invalid lover, even while she is gazing on his pale but
interesting-looking countenance, she is debating with
herself whether it were wisdom to tell him on his
awaking of the encounter she has just had with Captain
Mostyn. When she had first run in from off the beach,
uncertain whether Sir Charles had witnessed the last
part of their interview, she had not hesitated; but
as it is evident to her now that he must be in blissful
ignorance, she begins to believe it will be better to say
nothing on the subject.

A full quarter of an hour passes before those eyes of
glory dawn once more in love and wakefulness upon our
Helene.

My dear," are the first words Sir Charles utters ashe
wakes. " My dear, you must forgive me ; I have
been sound asleep. But the truth is, I have rather a
headache. As we dined so much earlier than usual, we
had better have tea soon. Will you mind ringing and
ordering it, while I just go to my room for the hartshorn?"


The girl instantly obeyed, and Monsieur appearing,
was instructed as to the tea. After receiving the order,
however, he paused in evident uneasiness. " Pardon,
Mademoiselle," he says, " mais Sir Charle allurement

has forgot. II a quelque chose a dire. Madame Bird
est une femme bien lente, vere slow ; de poste go, no
letter, no plate, no linen, ni Elize ni Jeanne ; et moi,
quelque envie que e'en aie, moi seule, les forces me
manquent."

I will speak to Sir Charles," answered Helene
smiling. " He has been asleep ; he has the headache."

At the news of his master's headache Monsieur
shrugged up his shoulders and left the room with an
air of miserable resignation, for he well knew from long
experience that nothing could be attended to while this
cruel foe was in force.

When our invalid returned, hartshorn in hand,
Helene mentioned what St. Amour had said.

I shall not be able to talk to-night about it,"
answers the master, " and, indeed, I have been thinking
that I need not trouble myself at all in the matter.
St. Amour can write to Eliza himself."

Monsieur, soon after bringing in the tea-tray, heard
with infinite satisfaction that he might manage matters
his own way. He loved to be master and mistress
too ; and, in fact, no one could be more capable than
he of arranging and seeing punctually executed the
duties required of maid or man.

It was quite wonderful how soon, under Monsieur's
superintendence, the house, the household at No. 1,
assumed an air of comfort and propriety. Elise, the
linen, the silver spoons, the spoony Jeames, were all ina
trice in their proper places doing duty.

St. Amour certainly felt it an indignity for himself
and for his master to be living in so little style. But
though he shrugged up his shoulders, turned up his
eyes, and groaned occasionally when closeted with
Mrs. Bird's niece over the havoc love had made with
his master's senses, yet he kept the fullest possession of
his own, exacting from the brewer, the coal-merchant,
and every other tradesman who supplied the house, a
bonus, a fee, which he considered his due for recommending
them to his master's notice. I suppose there
must be something wrong going on in almost every
household, and people generally find their servants a
great trouble. But Monsieur so glossed over his sins,
made things go so smoothly, it would have been too
great a sacrifice of comfort to attempt to detect his avarice
and his subtlety. And so Charles Daubigny, often
doubting and suspecting his valet's integrity, yet leaves

him alone. He has not the health, the strength, the
energy to descend and examine.

And now, leaving everything in Monsieur's hands,
our poor master strives to have a little quiet, strives
to gain benefit from the sea breezes. He was extremely
fond of the sea. The girl loved it too. And Sir Charles
went down himself on to the beach, examined the boats,
and hired a very good one with sails that lay there.
He also succeeded in hiring its owner and its little
crew too.

Never did invalid improve more rapidly than Charles
Daubigny at this particular time. He had commenced
his daily airings or excursions on the Dover waves in a
state of great attenuation and weakness. His hands were
wan, his cheeks sunken ; but the repose of mind, the
hope of the future, the affectionate attentions of the
girl, the constant inhaling of the sea breezes, the comfort
and order established in the house No. 1, this happy
combination, by the end of six weeks, had in truth
rendered him quite a different person.

While he was full of hope, full of the hope of indulging
the passion he felt for the girl, longing intensely
for the hour when all obstacles to their union should
cease, she herself liked not to think of a time that
should bring for her so strange a sacrifice. She loved
him tenderly, but she would have preferred being his
daughter to being his wife. Helene was not happy.
A constant vigilance she had to exercise lest she might
betray the coldness of her love. However, she did
manage very much to conceal, and did manage very
tolerably to perform her part. At all events she determined

to be fidelity itself, and so thoroughly had she
adhered to this determination, that never once, since
her encounter with Captain Mostyn, had she strolled
out by herself. She was so conscious that passion fora
forbidden object yet lurked in her soul (as an adder
lies dormant 'mid the foliage that conceals it), that she
felt bound to keep far away from whatever might
quicken, arouse to life, her slumbering foe. Oh, to her
mind, her conscience, how many proofs there were to
tell her that this venomous creature, though inanimate,
yet existed ! Instead of rejoicing in her heart over her
fiances improvement in health and appearance, sometimes
almost a shudder ran through her now as she
gazed upon him. While he was the bowed-down invalid,
with a hand and a cheek almost like parchment,
she had felt her approaching or her far-off marriage to
be no marriage. She would be his nurse, she would
devote herself to his amusement, to his satisfaction.
But ah, what returning life ! The lip but late so pale,
so shrunken, was getting rosier, plumper ; the sunken
cheek was hollow now no more ; the hand that used to
be so wan, so wasted, had now regained a touch of life.
The girl would sometimes murmur to herself in the
loneliness, the silence of the night, " Oh, why must I
be so beset by trouble ? Had I never seen Tresham
these fetters that now encircle me had been light to
carry, my bondage had been easy. But when one loves
incurably, when one feels, one knows what sensations
real love brings. Ah, yes ! His very touch, his footstep,
one word, a glance, a sigh to me was of account.
How, how can I give to another, to a living man, all

that may be exacted ! Yet lie will have a right. I
have, as Tresham said, sold myself. I am about to
marry, as papa told me, about to marry in cold
blood."

These reflections were the more forced upon the girl
by the failing state of the auld aunt's health. Of late
it had become apparent to her two interested servants,
to Graham, to the medical man who daily visited her,
that she had indeed crossed the Channel only to meet
death stripped as much as might be of its terrors. She
had had many interviews with her clerical friend. She
had settled all her worldly affairs, and said that she
waited now in quiet expectation of her end. During
the last week of the six that had glided by since her
arrival, she had taken wholly to her bed. Her voice
had grown weak, she could scarcely take any nourishment.


And what a life had Graham's been since he quitted
Calais ! The poor sinking creature was most exigccnite.
The fewer her days on earth, the more she seemed to
cling to the only being she had ever really loved upon
its dreary waste, and the bitterer grew her regret over
the years they had been parted. Day by day in her
soul accumulated, deepened the loathing of the false,
frail woman who had caused their quarrel, and who
had been the cause of their long estrangement, whenas
she would ofttimes murmur, " she had gazed on
the world without seeing its beauty, and her bread
had been as ashes." No, no ; there was no softening,
no relenting towards poor Helene Vane, and never
mention of our Helene.

The auld aunt had always had a superstitious dread
of doing anything on a Friday. And it was early on a
Friday morning in the eighth week of her sojourn at
No. 2 Marine Parade, that there, in Graham's arms, she
died. The angel of death then descended to quench the
last throb of life remaining in that emaciated form, to
extinguish the last ray of light left in that once busy
brain. Oh, how almost all of us shall change ere the
light of life shall finally depart, and the soul set free,
shall soar, those we leave on earth may not, dare not
guess whither.

Jane Graham had been a fine-looking, a handsome
woman, adroit in her movements if not positively
graceful. She had been sharper witted, more calculating
than are most of her sex, and endued with so insinuating
a manner, that Mr. Stapleton, the great wholesale grocer
whom she married, had been persuaded into, or had
been nattered into leaving her sole mistress of his
fortune, of that fortune that he, by dint of saving, of
perseverance and hard work, himself had made. Mrs.
Stapleton had never loved her husband, she had married
him because she wished to have all the luxuries of life
secured to her.

But she had a great deal of ardent feeling, and
she had no child of her own on which to lavish her
affection. Some one she must love, and her taste and
her pride led her to select George, her eldest brother's
eldest son. Mrs. Stapleton had been attracted in the
first instance by her nephew's noble style of beauty,
but presently it was far more than mere beauty that
held her to him. Her affection grew to be an absorbing
interest, an intense devotion ; and now, when years had
fled, how does George requite his aunt's impassioned
tenderness? He quarrels with her about another
woman. He is unmoved by her tears, her entreaties ;
he gives himself up to that disgraceful amour we so
frequently have had occasion to allude to.

Mrs. Stapleton for years had borne with her nephew's
arrogance, she had lamented over his extravagance,
deplored his mode of living, that must and did often
seriously embarrass him. She had given him money,
she had lent him money, but then his heart, as she
believed, was wholly her own, for no idea of marriage
had Graham ever seemed to entertain. But when, as
she suspected, a woman was in the way, when she discovered
that a woman was thrust betwixt her nephew
and herself, then her jealousy burned like fire.

Soon, too soon, came the catastrophe. George carried
off the lady, and must abide the consequences. The
old banker, the injured husband, took proceedings.
Graham made a defence, and, as was often the case in
those days, heavy damages were awarded. The money
was paid, but with difficulty ; the money had to be
borrowed. Year after year the hapless and the self-exiled

pair were sinking, and the beautiful but frail
creature, who either had tempted or was tempted, lasted
only long enough to escape the privations and indignities
that later fell upon her husband.

The auld aunt heard of Helene Vane's death, and
in her righteous vindictiveness she thanked Heaven
for poor George's deliverance. She heard in what an
altered manner he was living, and she rejoiced over his
poverty. "Presently," she murmured, "presently he
will be driven to extremity, he will sue for pardon, he
will yet be mine again."

But Mrs. Stapleton was mistaken. Graham was too
proud to stoop, too proud to plead for aid, unbidden.
What had been his end if Charles Daubigny had not
providentially or accidentally fallen in with Helene,
it is hard to say. Not until death seemed drawing
near did Mrs. Stapleton stretch forth her hand, not
until then did she bid the prodigal return.

And now, how does our sinner feel as the doctor in
attendance, and the maid, who is also standing by,
hasten to relieve him from supporting longer the senseless
form of the woman who had loved him with such
enduring affection ? In the weary weeks that he had
been watching over her, compelled to undergo such constant
constraint both in body and in mind, we will not
undertake to say that he had never wished the time to
speed. That weary time had sped. But, alas ! as he
heard the doctor pronounce that all was over, as he
gave up his ghastly burden and turned from the bed of
death, instead of feeling relieved, instead of feeling that
it was well the auld aunt was gone, his heart was too

full of pain for words. Hastily he quitted that room
where he could be of use no more, and seeking his own
apartment, threw himself on to its small French bed,
and wept a passion of bitter tears. He had watched
and waited long years before for death to come and
take from him Helene Vane, and now death had taken
this other woman to whom he had been so dear. He
was alone in the world, with no one to abide by him.
The child who might now have made his life almost a
happy one, had given herself away. Her sympathies
would be elsewhere, her presence would give light to
the home of another man. Graham loved his daughter.
He had thought that if ever fortune turned in his
favour, in Helene would be his pride, his delight. But
now the picturesque old country-house that presently
would be his own, that once the girl had so delighted
in as a home, that house would lack her presence.

George was still lying where he had cast himself,
under the canopy of the little French bed, an angel ora
cupid pictured over him, when the soft voice of
Helene asked outside the door of his room, in somewhat
tremulous accents whether she might come in.

He answered, "Yes."

I have come to see if you will have breakfast with
us," she said, as drawing near the bed she bent down
and gently kissed her father's hand.

Breakfast with us!" repeated poor George; "and
was this your thought or Charles Daubigny's ?"

He thought of it," answered the girl simply and
innocently.

"And you, Helene, forgot me altogether?"

No, papa, indeed. But I never knew that anything
had happened till just now. Mrs. Bird came up to my
room and told me, and said would I go to you at once.
Sir Charles wished I would, to ask you to come to
breakfast."

I cannot come to breakfast," repeated Graham
gloomily, yet almost petulantly, and without lifting his
head or moving, for he dreaded lest Helene should see
traces of the unmanly weakness to which he had been
abandoning himself.

How many, many years ago it was since Graham
last had shed a tear ! Perhaps not once had tears
forced their way since the tears of rage, of anger breaking
forth in the days of his unruly boyhood. No tears
had fallen as he stood listening for the last sigh of
Helene Vane ; no tears had fallen as he had left her
in her shallow grave, as he, the only mourner, had left
her in the wretched foreign cemetery where yet she
slumbered. His soul then had been too steeped in
misery; his spirit then had been too burdened by
threatening worldly care. It was like snatching a
moment to bury his dead, while the battle's din was
heard in the distance. But now there was tranquillity
if not peace in his soul ; now there was a mingling of
light amid the shadow. The prodigal knew that he
would be restored to affluence. He knew that although
he had lost the auld home of his fathers, and the
thousands of barren acres attached to that home, he yet
knew that presently he should be master of an estate
rich in culture, beautiful in position, and of a home
picturesque, or more picturesque than that his extra-vol.

II. K

balance, his ambition, his ungoverned passion had
caused him to lose.

But to return to Helene's unsuccessful mission. " I
cannot come to breakfast," repeated Graham impatiently,
as once more the girl urged him to do so.
"Helene, you know not what it is to be all night
watching as I have watched. Tell Charles I am unfit."

Very well, dearest, dearest," murmured she, printing
as she spoke one more kiss upon her father's hand.
But you will be better, happier now. How you have
borne such a trial we cannot tell."

Go, my dear child," he said, " do not excite me.
My heart is beating now horribly. I must try to get a
little sleep."

The girl quietly and sadly left the room, and our
fighting-cock suffered the tears no torture had wrung
from him again to steal adown his hirsute cheek.

In the dusk of early morning the coffin containing the
auld aunt's remains was quietly removed from No. 2
Marine Parade. And though she did die on a Friday,
on a day she deemed so unlucky, the hearse in which she
travelled reached Wodebourne Grange without disaster
or confusion. After resting for a day and a night in
the sweet home she had owned and occupied so many
years of her life, her remains, according to her own
particular directions, were interred "without pomp,
with as little ceremony as need be," in the village
church hard by.

See the small sable train as slowly it emerges from
the hall door of the picturesque old gable-fronted
house ; see it wending its way down the stately avenue.
There, now it crosses the high road and reaches the
churchyard gate, which is almost immediately opposite
the swing-gate leading to Wodebourne Grange.

Graham, our Graham, as chief mourner, follows next
after the coffin, and walks alone. His two brothers
walk side by side behind him. Then follows a lawyer,
a man of some importance. He had made Mrs.
Stapleton's last will and testament, and has it safe in
his own keeping ; and even with this hale, hearty,

independent-looking lawyer walks a little shrivelled
man, a banker, a London banker of renown, who had
married Lilias, the only sister of the three Grahams.
The old butler and the old maid (the greatest losers by
the death, the truest mourners there) walk together,
the few other servants follow as they list.

And now, presently the mortal remains of the auld
aunt are finally disposed of. While his reverence the
vicar rehearses, audibly and feelingly, the service for
the dead, her coffin is lowered into the vault pertaining
to Wodebourne Grange, to rest on that of the husband
who had been borne to this dark chamber of oblivion
so many years before.

Any idler watching the proceedings of the day would
see that as soon as the funeral ceremony at the church
is over, the same sable train that came from the Grange
returns thither, though not walking precisely in the
same formal order as before. Luncheon has been provided
in the house, or rather a very early cold dinner,
for luncheons were not so much in vogue then as now.
The repast, as is meet, is laid out in the dining-room, 
in that pleasant-looking, cheerful room with its rather
low ceiling, its oak-panelled walls, its picturesque bay-window.
It is not a pretentious looking room, but it
is better than that. A few very fine old portraits
adorn its walls, not family portraits, but some that
Mr. Stapleton had bought to please his wife. There
is a Duchess of Cleveland, said to be by Lely ; a Queen
Anne, attributed to Kneller ; a Nancy Parsons, by Sir
Joshua ; a Lady Hamilton, by Romney. But not one
of the small company here met together cares a straw

for the look of the room, or for the beauty and the
value of the pictures, save our fighting cock. To him
alone the room and whatever it contains is of interest.
As for the others here assembled, some of them are
hungry after the meat, and some are hungering after
the auld aunt's money.

The parson, as the late Mrs. Stapleton's particular
friend, George had invited. He now arrives, and the
previously standing group falls into the old oak chairs
set round the table. Mr. Prothero the lawyer, Mr.
Armstrong the vicar, and Mr. Weston the rich banker,
all have good appetites, and eat away manfully, for
they have had nothing since their early breakfast, and
are not heart-sick about the will ; but the appetites of
the three brothers Graham seem almost in a state of
suspension,  they are quite off their, feed. George
knows what is in the will, lie believes, and the consciousness
of the happy reverse that is about to befall
him, and the sight of the old familiar room just prepared
for dinner as it used to be in his young and
careless days, have set his heart a-fluttering, and he
looks unusually pale; but never had he looked more
refined or more strikingly handsome than now. The
other two Grahams are also tall, finely-formed men,
with very fair countenances, nothing amiss about either
brother, and one has managed to turn his good looks to
account. He has picked up and married a widow
with money,  money, however, tightly settled upon
herself. This brother is Hector Munro Graham, a
Major in the Indian cavalry. He has scarcely anything
more than his pay, and is hungering after a good

slice of the auld aunt's fortune, for he finds there is no
keeping down his rampant widow. She crows over
him terribly already. Fain would the Major stay in
England, but on half-pay in England he shall be in
his wife's eyes but a sorry fellow, whereas, driven to
return to Bengal for the sake of increasing his pay,
what with the enervating climate, his military duties,
and the duties expected of him by his lady, he feels
sure he shall soon be a sorrier fellow still.

Eeader, you see that the need of Hector Munro
Graham is pressing, but still greater is the need of
David the youngest brother. He was educated at
Aylesbury, and is a judge in India. He has been
there, almost constantly, for many years ; he is at
home now on sick leave. He has an extravagant wife
and a family of children. Fain would he retire, but
he wants a thousand or two a year of the auld aunt's
money to enable him to do so, and this now is David
hungering after.

There was a time, long years ago, when neither of
these younger Grahams had expected on their aunt's
death to receive more than a mere legacy; but from
the date of her quarrel with their elder brother George,
they had humbly conceived that matters must and
would take a turn decidedly in their favour. Such
years had flown since our three brothers had met, and
so slight had been their correspondence in the interval,
that now, to-day, they are shyer of each other than
perhaps even perfect strangers had been ; and no
wonder if George is shy of his relatives, banker and
all, for when they had known that he was in difficulties

they had all been very ready to drop or to cut him.
And the Indian judge and Mr. Weston the banker, on
the former's arrival in England, had congratulated each
other on the " profligate fellow's " having very wisely
made himself scarce."

A terrible nuisance George might have been," said
Mr. Weston, pulling up his stiff shirt-collars. " There 's
nothing more detrimental to a family of respectability
than to have one of its members, a fine fellow of this
sort, come down to beggary and rags hanging about.
If he hasn't shot himself already," continued this
amiable keeper of other people's purses, " I say it 's a
thousand pities. A profligate scamp. If he is alive,
we can at least say that he is lost to us, that we none
of us know his whereabouts, and we 11 take good care,
Davie, my boy, not to seek it out."

At the time this discourse took place, Graham, our
Graham, lay hidden at Avonmore, acting as Charles
Daubigny's steward. These worthies did not want, as
we perceive, to trace the movements of their fallen
relative, and they never had.

The auld aunt saw but little of her niece Lilias, nor
did she correspond with the two Indians, consequently
not one of the three had ever heard of her reconciliation
with their elder brother. Mrs. Stapleton, it is true,
had written, at the time of her serious illness, to inform
the Weston that she was about to travel for the benefit
of her health, and on settling down in the south of
France she had again written, giving them her address ;
but in her letters she had made no allusion to George ;
she had avoided mentioning that he had escorted her

thither. The fact was, that the poor invalid had
thought every one would accuse her of weakness, of
infatuation, and so kept her former favourite's presence
a secret from her family.

But to return to the present, to the anxious and
expecting group assembled in the dining-room of
Wodebourne Grange. The early dinner is over, and
the reverend the vicar rises to depart, for at table he
has been placed next to Mr. Prothero, and the strong-minded,
determined looking limb of the law, during
their repast, has informed his clerical neighbour that
he is the man who had made and who has in his keeping
the last will and testament of the deceased Mrs.
Stapleton ; and that whereas, just now, at this particular
time, he happens to have a great deal of other
legal business on his hands, he must take leave without
delay to set forth the contents of the said will ; but
when the vicar, approaching George, holds out his
hand and says good-bye, George, well knowing his
late aunt's great regard for the reverend gentleman,
begs him to remain, to which request he quietly
assents.

A few minutes after this Mr. Prothero himself leaves
the room. He presently, however, returns, bringing in
the all-important document. With a sharp, a hard, a
steady glance the lawyer looks around upon the
gathered group of wincing anxious faces. He begs to
know if it will be agreeable for him at once to perform
his legal duty. No voice objecting, Mr. Prothero
prepares to commence his task.

And now, while he is drawing a chair to a small
oaken table which stands in the recess formed by the
bay-window, while he is seating himself at this table,
while he is deliberately unfolding the document, we
will briefly describe our poor prodigal's position during
this momentous crisis of his existence. Every one, of
course, had some time before left his place at the dining
table ; every one now disposes of himself according to
his own fancy or convenience, and it is George's fancy
now, or rather his instinct, because it had been his
habit, long years ago, to stand close to the oaken
mantel-shelf, leaning an elbow on its corner. There
was a bright wood fire burning on the hearth below.
He was deathly cold ; he was thankful, though it was
a warm spring day, for the warmth afforded by that
fire ; but it was not that that drew or inclined him to
that spot,  it was the habit of early days. So now,
this broken-hearted, broken-down man stands leaning
an elbow on the corner of the oaken mantel-shelf,
shading his aching eyes with a hand whose delicacy of
form neither time nor poverty has marred.

The strong sonorous voice of Mr. Prothero resounds.
Every ear is attend, and Hector Munro and David
Graham and Harvey Weston hear with confounding
surprise, and poor George hears with a heart brimful
of gratitude to her who was gone, that he is heir to
Wodebourne Grange, to every acre of his late aunt's
lands, to every house, tenement, messuage thereon ;
that all her personal property whatsoever, including
jewels, watches, clocks, carriages, horses, is his also.
The only command or injunction or restriction she

imposes on her nephew is, that out of the whole mass
of her property he shall, within six months from the
date of her death, hand over to his brothers Hector
Munro and David Graham a legacy of two thousand
pounds each, and that his sister Lilias shall have
delivered to her a like sum within the same space of
time.

Every one's gaze is now turned on the sinner, or the
winner, and he stands silent, motionless. Motionless,
save that his whole form slightly vibrates from the
throbbing of his heart,  the throbbing of that rebellious
heart that, with all his efforts, he cannot command into
order. He knows that the part of a dignified man at
this moment is to seem unmoved, unconcerned. He
knows that he ought to speak and to move, but he
cannot. To keep his position, to keep that perfect
hand where it is shading his eyes, is all essential now,
for he can no more repress his tears than he can still
his throbbing heart. And because he dare not move,
lest those hard people standing by should behold his
weakness, so the hot tears, one by one, fall on the
marble hearth below.

Presently, very soon,  does he hear aright ? yes,
surely he does,  he hears Harvey Weston ask of the
lawyer whether he is certain that this is the last
will Mrs. Stapleton made. Was it a mistake ?

"None, sir; no mistake," answers Mr. Prothero.
"At Mrs. Stapleton's urgent request, and at her
expense, I went over to France. The will was made
while she was at Nice."

And are you certain' pursued Harvey Weston,

"that our aunt at this time retained perfectly her
senses ?"

I am quite ready to make oath that no woman
could have known better what she was about than
Mrs. Stapleton at the time she executed this her last
will, sir. I have had many opportunities of testing
the deceased lady's feelings. She invariably felt the
strongest preference for her eldest nephew."

I am not myself so well convinced that such was
the fact," retorted Harvey Weston, haughtily and
testily. " I must beg leave to differ from you, sir.
Once, nay, for years, we all know the infatuation of
our aunt. But that infatuation was a thing of the past."

Sir," answered Mr. Prothero, " with all submission
I must beg to adhere to my own opinion. Nay, to
afford you more satisfactory evidence, T take leave to
add, that so entirely uninfluenced was Mrs. Stapleton
by any application from, or by any flattery on the part
of Mr. George Graham, that in an interview which I
had with her here, after her first attack of illness, she
told me she knew not where her eldest nephew was,
and had no means of obtaining his address. At the
deceased lady's request I undertook to forward a letter
to Mr. George Graham, for accident had made me
acquainted with the place of his retreat."

George could endure no more. He glanced at the
group around Mr. Prothero. He saw that the attention
of every one was directed to him now, and was
diverted from himself. It was just the moment that
he had been longing for. He might change his position,
nay, he might escape from the room almost

unobserved, and seizing the opportunity, hastily he
strides past the disputants, leaving them to do battle
as they list.

Nor do we ourselves tarry longer than Graham \\
the pretty, happy-looking dining-room of Wodebourne
Grange. Presently, for a few fleeting minutes, we
shall take leave to accompany Harvey Weston and his
brothers-in-law, Davie and Hector, in their homeward
progress. We will suppose the dispute in the diningroom
ended. We will suppose that the three disappointed
relatives have departed, and we will listen
for a while to their discourse as they journey back
from the scene of their disappointment. We see the
thin wizen-faced man of wealth. We see the two long-legged,
well-made, angry Grahams. We see the three
men shut up together in Harvey Weston's small, light-built
travelling carriage. One pair of post-horses had
sufficed, but our banker travels with four. He thinks
it conducive to his reputation to make a show.

Why she was called the auld aunt so many years
ago I am at a loss to conceive," said Mr. Weston, " for
I saw by the Times that even at the time of her death
she was very little past sixty."

Oh, don't you know?" cries Hector, laughing.
Why, it was a kind of burlesque name bestowed upon
her by her family. She was, as you must have heard,
though you may have forgotten it, she was the only
child of our grandfather by his second marriage ; and
when she took to patronising and looking after George,
it was thought so absurd, they christened her the auld
aunt."

"Ha!" cries Mr. Weston uneasily, "I did not know
that there was such an assimilation of ages."

Nor," continued the godless cavalry-man, " that
she was accused of being in love with her darling."

I have heard it whispered," interrupted the graver
Davie, "that our aunt had indeed so extravagant a
tenderness for George, that when he broke loose and
ran off with Miss Vane that was, her jealousy, her
despair was that of a love-sick woman."

"I must seriously beg of you two Indians," here
interposed their moral and high-principled brother-in-law,
" I must seriously beg of you two Indians to
suppress such an insinuation. To me and to my
family such scandalous imputations are of the gravest
importance."

1 suppose the carriage hasn't ears," cries the
cavalry man, laughing. "Here at least one may
speak."

Well, but the safer plan is to ignore such a statement:
Put it clean out of your mind."

It is not so easy," retorted Hector, " to put such
things clean out of one's mind, especially after all that
has-passed to-day. No one can prove it. But for my
part, I am satisfied. Her last will and testament gives
evidence enough to satisfy any man."

"Were you still in India, Hector," murmurs forth
impressively his brother-in-law, "were you still in
India, where, it seems to me, from all I hear, people
care not a straw for morality and decency, it would
matter little what you thought and said. But here,
Hector, here, it is quite another thing. The reputation

of the family demands the most absolute silence. Your
brother George henceforth will occupy a conspicuous
position in the world. He is indisputably the head of
your family; he is the brother of my wife, the
uncle of my children. We must not suffer truth,
though indeed I am unconvinced myself, I will therefore
say you, my good fellow, must not suffer truth to
outrun prudence."

"You must have winced a little, sir, when George
broke loose and carried off the old banker's wife," cried
Hector, eyeing the brother banker with keen amusement.


Winced ! God knows what I suffered. To have
such a scandalous affair happen in my young wife's
family ; paraded, too, as it was, in all the papers."

I dare say," continued the persecuting Hector,
you would never have married Lilias if you could
have foreseen what was coming. You'd have been
afraid 'twas in the blood."

My good fellow," replies Mr. Weston solemnly,
you military men in India are too apt to make light
of such affairs. You can scarcely comprehend how
very particular, even in the smallest incidents in life,
a man in my position is compelled to be."

Ah, yes," cries Hector, " I dare say. And my little
sister Lily, who used to gambol about like a wild fawn
over moor and heather, have you succeeded in taming
her ? Have you quenched all the life and the fan she
used to show?" continued the Indian, gazing as he
spoke on the pragmatical looks of the rich man who
had bought the hand of the pretty Lilias.

Lilias is a pattern of propriety and order, a little
giddy, perhaps, a little thoughtless in the first few
years of our marriage. But I assure you that now
she quite enters into my feelings."

My poor little sister," was all that Hector spoke
aloud, but in his soul he mused of her. " Never,"
thought he, " never had you won her but for our father's
death, which left her homeless and dependent. God,
I 'd rather be shot at once than spin out my life with
such a solemn, self satisfied old prig as you."

Me. Prothero wanted George in London. He could
not therefore return from Wodebourne Grange to
Dover immediately after the funeral, as he intended
to do. And Charles Daubigny had arranged for Mr.
Holroyd to come to him precisely at this time. It was
an act of especial politeness on the part of Mr. Holroyd.
He very seldom granted such a favour to any of his
clients ; but he had such very fine pickings from
managing the great estate of the ailing and inactive
baronet, that he was disposed to be gracious to him.
Graham had wished much to return at once. He knew
that a censorious world might remark on the fact (if
such fact ever came to its knowledge) of Helene being
left alone with her fiancd. There was no help for it,
however. He had thought of asking the wife of the
medical man at Dover who had attended Mrs. Stapleton
in her illness to look after his daughter during his
absence ; but this lady had been governess to Helene
Yane, and on turning the matter over in his mind, he
felt that it involved so much that was painful he could
not bring himself to make the effort. So our little
Gipsy was left in charge of Mrs. Bird and her betrothed.

The morning has arrived when Mr. Holroyd is
expected. Sir Charles, by turns anxious and absent,
awaits his appearance ; but Mr. Holroyd, always overwhelmed
with legal business, is prevented from coming-early
in the day. He arrives only two hours before
the usual dinner-time. Helene does not wish to dine
with the two gentlemen on this occasion. She says
she is sure she shall be in their way, and Sir Charles
does not press it. Kissing the girl so gently, just as a
Saint might do, so gently that it did not disturb her,
he says that as it is purely a visit of business, and as
time is so precious, he will not ask for so sweet a
distraction. Despite of Pug's company and an occasional
word with Oiseau, Helene feels herself somewhat
dreary. Her thoughts fly back to the past, and wander
forward to the future. Whichever way they travel
there is a mingling of the asp of forbidden love in
them. The venomous creature seems to have awakened
from its slumbers. Yes, this lonely evening it creeps,
it glides about. Yes, Tresham's voice again is heard,
Tresham's form again invades.

It is now about eight o'clock in the evening. Mr.
Holroyd and Sir Charles are intently engaged in the
front drawing-room up-stairs. Helene is sitting in
mournful reverie. She hears a gentle knock at her
door, and opening it, finds Monsieur St. Amour. He
tells her that la femme aux bains wishes to speak to
her. She waits in a small disused parlour behind the
dining-room, whither he has conducted her.

"What can she want with me?" cries Helene. "I
never spoke to her in my life."

VOL. II. L

She has some lace, Mademoiselle, de dentelles
Franchises, which she wishes to dispose of."

Helene was always aroused and interested by the
mention of lace. She had a great taste for lace. She
is dreamy and sad, and wants something to amuse her,
so, following Monsieur, she descends and finds the
nymph of the ocean awaiting her in the small back
parlour. It is a dim room always, and is so dark now
that Monsieur has to bring a lamp ; and having placed
that upon the table, he retires, leaving the girl and the
mermaids alone together.

"You have some French lace to dispose of?" inquires
Helene.

Not me, Madam," answers the woman, curtsying,
a person who waits outside. May I bid the person
enter?"

Helene assenting, the mermaids, by a door at the
far end of the room, a door leading to the servants'
offices, disappears, and almost instantly a man muffled
up in a cloak, wearing a cap drawn much over his
eyes, enters. He holds in his hand a box containing
some very beautiful and costly specimens of foreign
lace. The girl advances towards the box, and stooping
down, begins to handle, to examine, to rejoice over the
offered treasure, when suddenly the box falls from the
man's hand, and clasping or grasping hers, he, in a
voice that sends a thrill of anguish through her heart,
utters her name.

How came you here ?" cries Helene, " and thus
disguised. I will not stay ; let go my hand this
instant."

Not yet, not yet ; not till you have heard me,"
murmured Tresham Daubigny, grasping the girl's wrist
with a still firmer grasp. " It is in vain to struggle ;
you cannot escape ; hear me. I am told that you are
about to be married, to be married to my uncle. You
are about to deal me the heaviest blow you can inflict.
You are about by this act to hurl me from a position
that has been for years secure."

"What can you mean?" asks Helene in her simplicity.
"How can my marriage make any possible
difference ? I have always striven to hide from Sir
Charles your infatuation. De quoi vous plaignez vous ? "

"Ha!" cries he with a bitter laugh, "and is my
uncle's then a purely Platonic affection ? Does he
never mean to consummate his marriage ?"

Let me go," again breaks from the shocked and
outraged girl, as she shrinks from the fierce wild gaze
fixed upon her. " Cessez a tenir ce langage."

Will you dare to tell me," continued he, " that you
do not know what marriage means ? Have you never
had the curiosity to read the marriage service ? If not,
let me enlighten you. A prayer is offered up for the
blessing of children. My uncle calls himself a religious
man. Will he bid the priest omit that prayer ?"

The girl, with the hand that was free, had covered
her blushing face. Tresham snatches this hand away.
He has both her hands now in his, the same wild gaze
fixed upon her. " Yes," he says, " I must submit, as in
duty bound, to my uncle's pleasure. He will marry
you, and I must bear it. But, Helene, think you, can
I lose what seemed but now to be my birthright ? Can

I cast every hope aside, and look for nothing in return
from you, from one who so mars my fortunes, from one
who has crossed my path to make life but a hell to me ?
No, no, it is too much to expect. But marry him.
Ay, give him all that virgin loveliness that man so
prizes. Yes, give that old wrinkled man his due.
But, Helene, when he has robbed me, when he has
tasted of that cup of bliss, and has no power to drain
it, suffer, oh suffer that sometimes, in secrecy, in darkness,
the nephew he has robbed and cheated and cursed,
may yet for a moment, an instant, share his sweeter
portion. Do you hear me, Helene ? One fond embrace,
one long impassioned kiss, not often  no, I dare not
ask it of you  but sometimes ; then, then if a little life
should intervene 'twixt me and what so lately seemed
as mine, I will not murmur."

Mon Dieu !" cries the girl in horror. " Veux tuque
je me prate a une telle perfidie, mon ane revolt.

II faut pluto mourir que de faire une telle lacheteV'

Better to die, Helene, better to die," cried Tresham
wildly. " Ay, I have sometimes thought of that, but
death will not be so merciful as to come unsought.

that death would clasp us in his cold embrace !
Are you ready, Helene, are you willing that together
we seek death ?"

Talk not of our seeking death together," cries the
girL " I am divided from you not only by your own
marriage, but by a promise I hold myself most sacred.

1 am his ; I do not seek to deny it."

Be it so," cries he. " You marry. I resign you to
his pleasure ; but hear me," and though still grasping

the girl's hands, young Daubigny, as he pleads, sinks
on his knees before her, " hear me. I plead but for the
crumbs that fall from the rich man's table, the rose-leaves
the wind scatters from his bower of bliss.
Helene, I must have something, some token of a passion
that even at this moment you betray. I can read it
in your heaving bosom, your downcast eyes, your
blushing cheek. Promise me something, promise to seeme
sometimes. I have the means of arranging such an
occasional meeting without risk ; and will he ever
miss that, that little of the too abundant joy you will
bestow upon him ?"

Plead not, 'tis vain," cries the girl in accents broken
by anguish. " I will give nothing that a woman of
character should not give. Le chagrin 011 je suis me
tue."

Then am I lost, condemned. You hurl me to
perdition," exclaims the infatuated Daubigny.

In trembling, in pity, in compassion, the girl gazed
on the deathly pale, the wretched countenance before
her. But even as her eyes were raised to contemplate,
even as her heart was thus torn and her mind distracted,
came a sound to startle the despairing lover
and to restore the girl to reason. Yes, there was the
sound of a carriage stopping, a sound of a loud ring at
the door of the house.

Hark !" cries she in still greater terror, " it must
be papa."

Scarce had she spoken, scarce was there a breathless
minute, when St. Amour, entering the room, exclaims
as he approaches the sinner, " 'Tis no moment to be

here. Descendez, Monsieur, allez ! Mademoiselle,
your papa."

Young Daubigny was not slow to avail himself of
Monsieur's timely admonition. He disappeared by the
same door that he had entered the room.

On his departure the girl, overpowered by agitation
and trembling with a variety of fears, sank down on to
the floor. One hand was upraised and pressed to her
forehead, the other spread out on the ground. She
really seemed quite bewildered. But the valet, who had
not followed Daubigny, but was keeping a watch over
her, in apprehension now drew near. Bending close
over her, he murmured, " Mademoiselle must not have
fear. 'Tis no-ting. Monsieur Tresham a trop bu. He
drink hard."

Oh," answered the hapless creature over whom he
bent, " oh, if I could only get to my room ! Where do
you think papa is ? What if he should see me here in
this state !"

St. Amour now quitted the room to reconnoitre. He
presently returned, assuring Helene that if she could
only manage to move at once, all would be well.
Monsieur Graham had gone to his bedroom in the next-door
house, he believed to dress, as he had met Mrs.
Bird taking warm water there.

Hereupon our little Gipsy, pale as a brunette can be,
and sadly bewildered in mind, arises from the floor.
But now another dread overcomes her. To get to her
bedroom she must pass the drawing-room door, and Sir
Charles and Mr. Holroyd were in the drawing-room.
If the door were open, if they were likely to surprise

her, she should not dare to venture. Monsieur now
made another pilgrimage, and reassured her by stating
that the door was not only shut, but that he listened,
and heard his master and the lawyer deep in discourse.

Terror lent strength for the minute, and Helene
managed to gain the landing where her room was ; but
here with her hand pressed to her head she sank down.
The valet had followed. For special reasons of his
own, he was much concerned in keeping Tresham's
visit a secret. Seeing the girl sink down on the uppermost
stair, he imagined she was going to faint. This
would be a very awkward affair.

But Monsieur had always his wits about him.
Knowing that Mrs. Bird kept various restoratives
and medicines in her room, which was hard by, and
having seen her so lately downstairs, unceremoniously
he dives into the old dame's apartment, returns in a
minute with a bottle of hartshorn in one hand, a bottle
of spirits of lavender in the other. Feeling in his coat
pocket for the lump of white sugar which was sure to
be there, he abstracts one thence, drops some of the
esprit de lavandre upon it, and asking pardon for the
unseemly manner in which the offering is made, yet
beseeches the girl to take it. Kneeling down beside
her he says, " Esprit de lavandre, Mademoiselle. Prenez
le sucre, je conjure. C'est bon pour le battement du
coeur." Helene raises a hand and takes the sugar.
He bids her swallow it without delay. In simple faith
she obeys. He holds the bottle of hartshorn, he begs
that she will let him put some on to her hands, on the
palms of her hands. He has his way, and by degrees

our poor little Gipsy recovers. She can presently rise
up and walk to her room ; she regains her courage.
Once more she is able to hide her aching heart ; she is
able to shield the sinner. That visit of Tresham's
remains a secret from Sir Charles and her father.

There must now inevitably arise in our master's mind
a contest betwixt passion and propriety. Passion bade
him seek to have the treasure his soul so coveted
bestowed upon him at once ; propriety bade him wait
a seemly time. In so sensitive, so delicately constituted
a nature as that of Charles Daubigny, propriety was
sure to prevail. And indeed so completely did our
master rein in desire, that he suffered a whole month
to pass from the date of Mrs. Stapleton's death before
he once mentioned the subject of his marriage to
Graham. Now, however, deeming that propriety had
been sufficiently regarded, he determines on urging his
claim.

The former rivals were sometimes unavoidably left
sitting alone together after dinner. It happens to bethe
case this evening. Sir Charles determines to seize
the opportunity. He determines to ask. " He hopes
now there need be no further delay."

With eyebrows unduly elevated, with eyes that told
of surprise, Graham turns towards his companion. " My
good fellow," he exclaims,. " why such haste ? In
another six months, perhaps."

Are you mocking me, George ?" asks our Saint.

A man at my time of life hasn't an hour to throw
away."

"Mocking you!" cries Graham, laughing; "no, I
never thought of such a thing, though indeed your last
words do sound a little ominous. But I really think
you may make your mind easy. I see a most satisfactory
change. You have lately made rapid strides
towards convalescence. In six months perhaps you may
have shaken off the invalid altogether. How much
better to marry when you are well ! "

To wait six months on such a supposition is altogether
out of the question. What six months may
bring, God only knows. The present time is the only
time we may certainly count oh. Remember, too,
George, you as good as gave me your word. You precisely
sketched out your plan. You said when such
and such things had happened you would consent ; that
then the days of my probation should expire." There
was a life, a vigour, a determination in our master's
manner that somewhat startled Graham. " Can you
deny this ?" continued Sir Charles. "You say that I
have improved in health. My improvement has been
mainly due to hope. Hope has upheld me ; I have been
living on hope. You really could not be so inhumanly
selfish as to seek to dash the cup of happiness from my
lips. Remember it is the first, the only time in my life
I have ever looked to taste of happiness. Six months
longer ! No, I could not support it."

My dear fellow, you are somewhat excited," cries
Graham with a cruel sneer. " Come, let us go up-stairs
and hear what the gal says herself."

Silently they went up-stairs to the drawing-room
together. Helene lay half-reclining on the sofa. She
wore a low evening dress. Pug was asleep, perched on
a cushion which supported his mistress. One black
paw was on the girl's creamy, sunny coloured shoulder,
his jetty nose reposing on this outstretched paw. A
novel, a new French novel was on the sofa too. Helene
had been reading it.

There," cries Graham, as the two men entered the
room, " there," cries he, pointing to his daughter,
there 's a wife suitable to a man of your years ;
dignity, propriety, common sense expressed in her very
attitude, her occupation. Heaven help you, Charles !
I say."

With a blush on her cheek the girl rose up.

Charles," continued her father, " Charles wants to
marry you tomorrow. My advice is that he waits till
you have gained a little more womanhood, he a further
stock of health."

The girl, gazing on the countenances of the two men,
could see that the heart of either was disturbed. She
began to feel disturbed herself. "What is it?" she
said, approaching her france y and gazing wistfully,
inquiringly, into his fine expressive eyes.

Charles Daubigny was too passionately in love to
forbear. " Your father says tomorrow," he whispers,
but I so covet Pug's privileges, I so envy his happiness,
I would our marriage were this moment."

How can you be so absurd ?" murmurs Helene,
moving away. " Tell me what you both really are
about."

I brought him up here that you yourself might
decide the question," cries Graham, shrugging up his
shoulders. " I seem to have no voice in the matter.
When, Helene, do you wish to leave me ? When do
you desire to become the great Lady Daubigny?"

The girl now turned towards her father. Casting
her fond arms round his great chest, and pressing her
face against his bosom, she murmured, " Never."

George hereupon kissed his daughter in triumph.
She is in no hurry," he exclaimed ; " she '11 bide her
father's bidding."

Tell me at once," retorted Sir Charles, " tell me
rather that you both wish the affair ended. Ask your
daughter that ; she will probably say yes." Our poor
master could not attempt to be calm. He sank down
on to the sofa whence Helene had so lately risen. A
sofa-table stood before it; he leant his arms upon
that table, with his trembling hands he shaded his
agitated countenance.

I think I am somewhat de trop cries George, " I '11
leave you young people to settle the affair between
you," and with a laugh, and whistling Pug to follow
him, he flew down the stairs, and was soon strolling on
the beach.

Graham gone, Helene turned her attention to her
offended fianct. She came and bent over him. She
tried to move the hand that shadowed his face, but the
hand was stubborn and defied her strength.

How shall I convince you that I meant nothing ?"
cried she, falsifying her own heart.

"You cannot, you never can," murmurs our master.

Helene, there is an indifference, a coldness in your
manner that tells more than words."

Tell me, did you ask papa to settle when the marriage
should be?" she inquired, and her voice was
scarcely steady.

I did ; and how has my question, my request been
met ? Oh, I could almost ask that you sign my death-warrant
at once. Break with me ; bid me go. There
is a slow torture in this doubt, in this cruel uncertainty."


You want to be married," repeated the girl as one
in a dream. " You believe if we were once married,
you would be at rest."

Why do you ask this ? You know how intensely
I desire it," cries the master. .

Tell me then," continued Helene, trying to speak
cheerfully, but with a heaviness on her heart, " tell
me, if I name a time will you be satisfied ?'"

"That depends," murmurs the infatuated lover, "on
the date, of course. Following your father's counsel,
you would put it so far off it would be a thing in the
clouds."

Tell me, may I have two months ?"

"No," cried Charles Daubigny impetuously; "one
month is an age."

The girl knelt at her Saint's feet and bade him
name his own time.

He relents in his anger, but is immovable as to time
one month.

We need not linger longer over our master's days of
courtship. We will bring our reader straight to the
evening preceding the day of his marriage. Loath
enough had Charles Daubigny felt to be separated from
Helene ; but urgent business called him to his lawyer's,
and, with a misgiving mind, he had suffered the girl
to proceed to Wodebourne accompanied by her father.
His soul was full of apprehension ; he mistrusted
Graham, and his suspicions were not unfounded, as
presently we shall see.

The father and daughter have had as little time
allowed them to be alone together by the sensitive, the
jealous lover as possible. They had only arrived at
the late Mrs. Stapleton's country-house on the afternoon
of Monday  the wedding was to take place on the
following Wednesday. The scene we are about to
depict occurred on the evening of Tuesday, the last
evening, as Graham petulantly observed, that he might
still presume to call the girl his own.

They are sauntering together in the garden, and how
can we bring before our reader's mind the old-fashioned
garden of the Grange ? How can we paint its primitive
glory? It was the time of roses, of old-fashioned

cabbage and moss roses ; it was the time when honeysuckles
droop beneath their freight of golden bloom ;
it was the time when lilies rear their virgin heads ; it
was the time of bine-flag flowers, yellow iris, Canterbury
bells, snow-white pinks, carnations ruby-red. Oh,
what crowds of these dear old flowers there were, and
Helen e and her father sauntered sadly, slowly, dreamily,
a-down a path hedged in, as it were, by these now
slighted but sweet-scented flowers.

As thus they wander on, he has an arm around the
girl, and suddenly he pauses on his way, and with
strange effort speaks. " Helene," he says, " tell me, ere
it be too late, tell me, are you happy ? is your heart,
your mind at rest ? I have fancied  it may be fancy,
but I have thought once or twice you seemed to grow
pale, to look disturbed when tomorrow has been
alluded to. Eemember, my dear girl, if you do feel
any regret, if you would withdraw, it is not even now
too late."

The girl's heart, her mind was not at rest. As the
hours sped on, she sometimes shuddered at the idea of
her approaching marriage,  not because there was a
lack of love in her heart for Charles Daubigny, but
because it was not love of a sort compatible with marriage.
It seemed to oppress her, it seemed to outrage,
to wound her delicacy to marry a man whom she could
only regard in the light of a guardian, a parent. Yet
so much she loved him, so certain she felt that to withdraw
from, to break her engagement would be indeed
like signing his death-warrant, that even to her father
she would not reveal her secret. She tried, she strove

to answer calmly, but the memory of the past, of her
early passion for Tresham, of her father's total ignorance
of it, the consciousness that she had had to deceive
him, the consciousness that she must do so now, oppressed
her to such a degree, no words could she speak.

"You are silent," he said, and hope dawned upon
him. Oh, could he but keep the girl, could he but
now, late as it was. throw Charles Daubigny over !
He looked eagerly down upon her ; he tried to examine
her face, the expression it wore ; he longed to see, to
hear a confirmation of his new-born hope. But Helene,
covering her face with her handkerchief, took to weeping
in silence. " These tears," he continued, " speak
even more than words. Helene, dearest child, say,
only say that you will remain with me here, that
nothing shall part us."

Papa," cried the girl, " I cannot. I will not be so
cruel. He is all that is noble and good. Whatever it
costs me, tomorrow I will, I must  " She could not
finish the sentence.

Graham pressed his daughter passionately to his
heart; we are not sure that tears of rage, tears of disappointment
did not start to dim his deep blue eyes.
With a voice that trembled from excess of feeling he
exclaimed, " Helene, you are too innocent, too inexperienced
to know what you are about. Is it for me to tear
the veil from your eyes ? Yes, if by so doing I may
save you, snatch you from misery. I will even outrage
feeling. I will for the occasion lay aside reserve.
Do you hear me, child ? When tomorrow the parson
shall have recited those words that shall make you his,

his wife, that withered hand will have license to wander
whither it will. Does not the contemplation make
thee shudder, child ? Those puckered, bloodless lips
may bestow unquestioned a thousand kisses ; that sickly
breath, through every coming night, shall steal towards
thee like a noxious vapour from which there 's no
escape. I dare not, as thy father, initiate thee further ;
imagination may fill up the hateful rest. And wilt
thou, Helene, sacrifice thyself to this old man's unnatural
passion ? Shall thy virgin loveliness be given to him ?
Shall it be subject to such a desecration ?"

"Papa, papa!" cries the girl, endeavouring to free
herself from her father's grasp, " in mercy, in pity, spare
me ! There is no need of this cruelty. Never, never
has he taken the slightest liberty. He is too noble,
too refined, ever to descend to such familiarities. He
will never distress me in any way."

Child," continued Graham, " are you ignorant that
marriage privileges a man to take what liberty he lists?
that a wife is bound to submit to caresses, however
odious they may be to her ?"

He loves me," cries Helene, scarce able to speak
for agitation ; " he loves me with a love as holy as
your own. I love him the same. We shall continue
as we are."

Graham laughed a laugh of scornful mockery.
Child, child," he said, " I could almost take upon
myself to forbid the sacrifice you are about to make
under such complete delusion. His love like thy
father's ! God ! I have seen him, watched him
gazing on thee with eager desire. Yes, I have seen

VOL. II. M

him struggle to subdue himself into apparent calmness.
That he has been considerate, that he has abstained
from manifestations of his passion, I can credit. Charles
Daubigny is a man of the highest character, and the
most shrinking sensitiveness has characterised him
under every circumstance of his life. He has felt
bound to respect the child who has so trusted in him ;
moreover, he would be conscious that I should disapprove,
should resent all attempt at freedom. But the
parson's voice will dispel all such reserve, such consideration.
Helene, Helene ! believe me, were you to
fall on your knees and pray to your husband to spare
you, he would not. He would be a fool if he did. Tell
me not that you marry the man in utter ignorance
now."

Papa," cries the girl in vehement anguish, " I know
your object. You want to scare me out of marrying
him. You would not mind if he lay dead at your feet;
you hate him. But I will trust in him, I will believe
in him, I will not break his heart ; I would die
sooner."

My feelings," retorted Graham angrily and bitterly,
are nothing. What have I to make me care to live
when you are stolen from me ?"

Oh, papa, say not this ! Your brighter destiny is
just dawning upon you, and indeed, indeed I will divide
my time as my heart between you and him." As the
girl spoke these last words, she threw her arms around
her father's neck and kissed him with a kiss of passionate
affection, then breaking from him sped away.

Why, Miss Helene, only to think that you should be
so sound asleep !" cries Mrs. Bird; "never as I know
on have I had to waken you before."

The girl sat up in bed ; she seemed yet hardly
awake. "Dear!" she murmurs ; "what is it? Am
I so very late ?"

Why, sure one 'ud a thought you 'd been all alive
to it, instead o' sleeping' here," cries the old dame,
laughing.

I know now," answered Helene with a faint smile ;
but when you touched me I was dreaming, dreaming
of something quite different."

"Well, don't hurry yourself; it's well you've been
a-restin' so."

Oh, I haven't rested well at all," cries Helene,
sighing ; " almost the whole night I lay awake, and
that 's how it is I was so sound asleep when you came."

Such was the commencement of Helene's wedding-day.
The old dame presently withdrew, as she
invariably did, while the girl said her prayers and took
her bath. It was not often that Helene rang for Mrs.
Bird to return. She was accustomed to manage without
a servant, but now that the bridal apparel was to

be put on, she did not think she could manage.
Her little hands trembled ; she felt nervous. She
dreaded encountering her father. She could form
no idea of what humour she might, on descending, find
him in.

It had been our little Gipsy's own desire to be married
in a plain morning dress of white muslin. She thought
herself, that as scarcely any one would be present at
the marriage, it was absurd dressing on the occasion as
brides usually are dressed.

But Graham would not hear of this. She must be
dressed as became his daughter, as became the future
Lady Daubigny. So now the poor girl has to array
herself as though for a fete, when her heart, her soul is
dark with the shadows of cypress and of yew. Yet
of so changeful a nature is Helene, so variable is her
mood, and her spirits are naturally so good, that by
the time she has completed her toilet, and stands
gazing into the great mirror before her, a momentary
thrill of satisfaction, like a ray of bright sun-light,
pierces, nay, almost dispels the gloom, the shadow on
her heart ; for she beholds in that glass a reflection, a
picture of a creature so every way fitted to bear the
romantic name, the ancient title Sir Charles is about
to bestow upon her. A blush rises to her cheeks as
she thinks it, but she does think it nevertheless, that
in her bridal dress she looks almost beautiful. So she
has at least vanity to support her, and this to Helene
is a good deal, for had she been happy, most likely she
had been very vain. And now the girl descends to
meet her father at their customary private breakfast.

They are indeed quite alone together, and being alone
with him just now is a real trial to her.

They had sat some few minutes in silence, absolute
silence. She had swallowed a cup of tea. Graham
had finished his breakfast before Helene came ; but
still he remains at the table. Suddenly, sarcastically
he exclaims, " And so you are determined to throw
yourself into this old man's arms ?"

Silently, with quivering lips, the girl bows her
head.

You must not leave me without a sou in your
pocket," continues Graham, strewing the breakfast
cloth with the contents of his own. " There is a fifty-pound
note, there is the same in gold."

It will be no use," murmured Helene sadly. " I
really shall not want it."

I suppose some sort of decency is to be observed,"
retorted he harshly. " Have you already learned to
despise my pitiful offering ? Would-you go from me
like a beggar Charles Daubigny had picked up on the
highway V

Papa, papa, be kind to me, or  or  "

Or my heart will fail me, eh ? was that what your
ladyship intended to have said ?" he inquired with a
laugh.

No, but indeed I shall be so bewildered, so
wretched, I shall look quite unfit to be seen."

Now for the first time since she had entered the
room George turns his eyes towards the girl and
examines her. He is so struck by her likeness to the
hapless, buried Helene Vane, he is so struck by the

beauty in the child that had so captivated him in the
mother, that a tide of recollection returns, rolls back
upon his soul. He bites his lip ; to hide his agitation
he rises, walks towards the window. He presently
flings open the casement and sits leaning his elbows on
the old-fashioned window-frame.

A clock in the room ere long strikes ten, for Helene
had risen late, and had also been long in dressing.
The girl knows that in half-an-hour Sir Charles, Mr.
Prothero, Mr. Holroyd, and the clergyman about to
officiate will be in Wodebourne Church.

Papa," she presumes to murmur, " do you know
that in half-an-hour  " She pauses.

Without turning towards his daughter Graham
merely nods his head.

"Shall the carriage be ordered?" asks our poor little
Gipsy.

Not yet," he answers ; " it is too soon."

I will just go up-stairs then and get my veil, and
carry this," she says, gathering up the money ; and
leaving her father still in the same attitude, still
apparently gazing out at the window, Helene returns
to her room.

The money, all but a very little, was stowed away
in a splendid new dressing-case, the gift of her father,
and then she herself arranges her veil. She waits
some minutes longer, but hears no sound of the carriage
approaching the house. She descends the old oaken
staircase, crosses the oak-floored hall ; she re-enters
the breakfast-room. Graham is not there.

What a relief to her to see him presently return,

j

hat in hand, his white kid gloves on. A still greater
comfort to hear the carriage, for Helene had begun to
fancy that perhaps her angry parent would, at the last
moment, refuse to be present at the marriage.

In the meantime, half-an-hour before he should be
there, our master arrives at the church. He has
chosen on this occasion to travel quite alone, attended
only by the Frenchman. There is no one in the
church when he enters ; even the old clerk is absent.
He approaches the altar where presently he hopes to
receive that inestimable treasure, that all that he lacks,
that all that his soul covets ; yet dark clouds will roll
over him, doubts of the girl's love, dread lest her father,
even at this the eleventh hour, may have seduced her
from her allegiance.

When speaking of Charles Daubigny the evening
before, Graham had endeavoured to represent him as
repulsive as possible ; he had spoken of his puckered,
bloodless lips, his shrivelled hands, his sickly breath ;
but whenever it suited Graham's mood, he felt himself
quite at liberty to use exaggerated expressions. When ina
bad humour he was very apt to tincture the truth with
the acidity or the bitterness of his own imagination.

And now, in contradiction of those cruel words, our
master stands by the communion rails looking the
most refined, the most delicate of middle-aged men.
Pale he is, pale almost as death, for the doubts that
oppress his mind, and the passion that thrills through
his being, blanch his cheek ; but no mental suffering

can diminish the regularity, the refinement of feature
with which nature has gifted him. The nose thin,
small, yet Woman, the nostrils arched to perfection, the
lips, the chin well shaped, sensual, the teeth still
good, unharmed by sickness and by time. Pale and
jaded his countenance may be, but there is a lustre, a
life in the dark, long-shaped eyes that banishes all
thought of age.

As the happy but exciting moment draws nearer,
Charles Daubigny becomes a prey to intense feeling,
we might almost say to intense suffering. His doubts,
his fears begin to obscure, to eclipse all hope, and
Monsieur, standing at a very respectful distance, contemplates
his master's pale countenance, his evident
agitation, with a touch of wicked amusement, murmuring
or musing as there he stands that possibly " le jour
des noces ou les heures suivante may be too great a
trial for the invalid's slender stock of health and
strength."

But now suspense should soon be over. It is half-past
ten, and Mr. Prothero and Mr. Holroyd walk up
the aisle, and scarcely have they had time to exchange
greetings with Sir Charles, when Helene, leaning on
her father's arm (for he had condescended to offer it),
appears. Graham looks disagreeable  he looks as
haughty, as frigid, as distant as he can  and envy and
anger are indeed struggling in his bosom. Ah, yes !
the two men are doomed to be rivals, even to-day.

The clergyman has gone to the vestry to array himself
in his surplice, and Charles Daubigny, contrary to
all etiquette, as we suppose, seizes this moment of

delay to approach our little Gipsy. The man of
feeling in desperation lifts the girl's veil. He lays a
cold hand on her wrist. He gazes anxiously, inquiringly,
wistfully upon her. Helene raises her downcast
eyes ; they meet his  his that tell of such cruel
fear, such intense love. Though his lips ask no question,
the girl fully comprehends his misery, and in
return she gives him a sweet, a childlike, a reassuring
smile.

Now break from our master's burdened soul two
simple words. He murmurs, " Thank God," and gently
readjusting the veil returns to his place.

But Mr. Armstrong, the vicar of Wodebourne, is
ready, the old clerk has mounted his spectacles ; the
marriage-service begins, and Graham, with scarce concealed
displeasure, hears recited the words that shall
give Charles Daubigny authority to claim as his wife,
to carry off, his beloved child.

Helene, it will perhaps scarcely be believed, has so
deep an interest in her father, has so sincere an affection
for the man she is marrying, she is so anxious lest
after the ceremony is over the twain should disagree,
that the memory of Tresham for the present, like a
coiled-up adder, slumbers.

Mr. Armstrong's concluding words had scarce died
away, when, regardless of every one else, the girl turns
towards our fighting-cock, who, though in so sacred an
edifice, looks very much as if he meditated battle.
Graham has indeed cause to feel angry and disappointed.
Helene knows what is passing in his mind,
and can comprehend the bitterness of his feelings. He

has told her again and again how he should have settled
down at Wodebourne and been almost a happy man ;
but now that Sir Charles takes her from him, Wodehouse
is nothing to him, save that its possession will
add something to his position, his importance. He
has also told her that he shall leave it, and almost
immediately take up his residence in a London hotel.
And when the girl now turns towards her father, she is
thinking how lonely he will be in the afternoon when
she is travelling onwards towards Brierly, where Sir
Charles has arranged to pass his honeymoon.

She turns to him then, and asks in unsteady accents
for the kiss he does not vouchsafe to bestow. The girl's
love is so evident Graham cannot resist her appeal, and
he embraces her with almost a passionate tenderness.

Sir Charles had named no precise time for their
arrival at Brierly. He had a perfect horror of demonstrative
congratulations, blessings offered by a motley
crowd, and he had taken such care lest any such
manifestation should greet himself and his little bride,
that he had written, warning or informing the housekeeper
of his inability to undergo additional fatigue and
disturbance on this his wedding day. Mrs. Thornbury
only knew that she had to provide a late dinner. " It
was possible!' Sir Charles wrote, " that they might reach
Brierly in time for dinner."

In consequence of this uncertainty, the housekeeper
was not in the way when the carriage drew up before
the hall door, and Sir Charles volunteered to show his
little wife to her room. What room should he select
but the one he had always occupied himself in his
bachelor days? Naturally he took her there. In this
room, then, the girl divested herself of her out-door
garments, and thankful she felt that while up there
she encountered neither housekeeper nor maid.

Having then laid aside her mantilla and her bonnet
and rearranged her hair, Helene comes down the great
staircase. Sir Charles, on the alert, hears her say as she

descends, " Pug, Pug, I am lost ; can you scent out our
master?" With a bright and smiling face comes that
master forth from the library to meet the twain.

There is presently a little conversation relating to
St. Amour. For some special reasons Sir Charles has
ordered his man to go to London this very night. He
has instructed him, as he tells Helene, to take his
passage up by the mail that passes near the park gate
at ten o'clock. One thing, nay two, we may mention
that our master has ordered his valet to attend to.
Early on the succeeding morning he is to call at the
house of Mrs. Cyril, and deliver a small parcel and a
letter into Augusta's own hand. Next, he is to call at
the office of the Times, leaving there a notice of the
marriage to be inserted.

Now, we have said that our little Gipsy was a very
uncertain person. She could experience moments of
thoughtlessness and levity even on this her mournful
wedding day. Somehow it occurs to her, the idea or
the memory flashes across her mind, that she had
promised Lord Brailsford, if ever she should be at
Brierly, to send him a token of remembrance. She
knew that Lord Bedingfield's family was in London, at
the Earl's London house. And now it occurs to her
that she might make Monsieur the bearer of her offering
to the young Lord. Next in the depths of her silly
little brain she began to ruminate of what nature should
be this offering, and with all the folly of a child she
decided it should be a portion of her wedding-cake.

You may be certain all this was thought over silently,
and that not a hint of the folly she intended perpetrating

was let fall to enlighten Sir Charles. She should
quietly, privately instruct Monsieur.

Presently, as she returns up-stairs to resume her
gloves and her mantilla (for she is going out into the
garden for a stroll before dinner), she runs against the
very man she wants. St. Amour is unpacking his
master's portmanteau on the landing near the bedroom.

You are going to London ?" says the girl, addressing
the stooping valet.

Yes, Madame," rising and bowing low.

Will you do a little errand for me ?" asks the
beautiful brunette.

Again the man bows and smiles delightedly.

Well, can you do it quite quietly, without a fuss ?
It is a little affair of my own."

More delight. " Ah, oui, mi Lady."

You brought the great wedding-cake here. Papa
would not have it left."

Another bow.

Cut me a fine slice of it, just as a pastry-cook
would. Can you ?"

Mais, certainement, Madame."

And can you do it up beautifully, a merveille, in
white paper?"

No one shall do it better," replies St. Amour.

Well, I am going into the garden for a quarter of an
hour. I shall come up here on my return. Let me
find it on the dressing-table packed up, but not sealed.
Then before you go off by the mail ask to speak with
me, and I will give you further directions. Or stay,"
cries the childish girl, " this will be better. When

dinner is over I shall come up here for Pug. I shall
take him out for a minute or two. You will hear me
leave the dining-room, you will hear me go into the
bedroom. Be on this landing when I come out again.
I will bring the package, and give you directions how
and where you are to deliver it."

Monsieur was charmed with the confidence it was
evident his young mistress reposed in him. His bows
were supreme.

Now Helene runs down-stairs carrying Pug in her
arms, and rejoins Sir Charles, who awaits her in the
hall. " Let me see the conservatory first, please," asks
the girl, and our master leads the way. " This is
enchanting !" she exclaims on entering the noble plant-house.
But scarce had she loitered half-way down the
perfumed vista, formed of exotic climbers, when the
head gardener, who is at the far end of the house, presumes
to approach. Like most of the people employed
at Brierly, he had been living there a long time, and
having saluted his master, naturally a few kindly words
pass between the two. But Helene's delight was marred
by his presence, and to get out of the way of the
stranger she steals back to the garden. Here she
begins picking some roses, something in her old childish
style. She is flitting about amid the flowers. Sir
Charles stands gazing on her with delight. But she
is doomed to be persecuted, now she is a great lady,
by attention from her inferiors. Scarce five minutes
of freedom when the same old gardener again presents
himself. He carries a handful of magnificent roses,
mingled with sprays of myrtle and orange-blossom.

These as grow here, my Lady," he says, " be but a
common sort o' rose. Will your Ladyship please to
accept some o' these finer, better kind ?"

The girl, shy as a fawn, more frightened of an English
gardener than of a young English Lord, receives the
nosegay blushing. She thanks the old man indeed,
but next instant glides away and screens herself from
further observation in a covert formed of mighty ferns
and rushes that grow at the far end of the lawn, near
a gurgling rill. She casts herself down between the
wall of fern and the murmuring brook. Here she may
breathe a moment in peace.

Sir Charles presently discovers his little lady's place
of retreat by various evolutions Pug is performing. At
every instant the dog darts in or out of the tall covert
that screens our Gipsy.

The master gently draws near, and pushing aside the
fern leaves, beholds a picture that strikes him with
admiration. At first the girl is not conscious that her
adoring husband stands by, and she remains silent and
undisturbed. She had, as we have said, cast herself
down upon the turfy slope. Her pretty chin rests
upon her hand, a hand denuded of its white kid glove,
its fingers, as usual, sparkling with many rings. The
sleeve of the dress is loose and open, and falling back,
displays the brunette but beautifully-formed arm
clasped by a massive bracelet of gold, of diamonds, and
turquoise. The dress itself is but of white Indian muslin,
very simple save for the costly trimming of real old
lace. The mantilla is black, of black mode silk ; but
here again the lace prevails. It is more of heavy

Spanish lace than of silk. Careless is our Helene's
attitude ; but how full of native aud inherent grace, a
grace that never forsakes this hapless child of earth.
Her sunny, rich complexion seems, too, so in unison
with nature's bright tints scattered around.

When the girl does first catch a glimpse of our master,
she is struck by the sad expression printed on his
features as he regards her. " Why do you look so
dismal ?" she asks. " Tell me for once in your life your
real, real thoughts."

I was thinking wholly of you, Helene."

Well, what were you thinking?"

I was pondering over my own audacity ; wondering
how such an old fellow as myself could ever hope to
win, to keep the heart of such a sweet, childlike thing
as lay upon the grass before me."

Then banish such suspicions," cries Helene vehemently,
" for I love you with such a love that I hope
we may die at the same minute, that is, if I should only
be good enough to go whither you will go. In the
world of spirits there is no other whose angel I covet
to have near me. Nor do I know another beside yourself
I am so sure will be in heaven."

My dear child," said the conscious master almost
with a blush, "you must lower your estimate of my
character. I am frail, I am sinful, subject to earthly
passion."

You are so good, that is why you think
yourself wicked. What other people think no sin,
you deplore in yourself as sinful. You could
never descend to my low-water level," added the

Gipsy with a little laugh. " How infinitely better
you are ! "

Why do you say this, my love ?" exclaims the
master uneasily. " Tell me, Helene, do you feel any
particular impulse ? Is there anything in the past
that you conceal from my knowledge ? "

No, clearest, dearest," cries the girl, rising from the
turf and resting her pretty head upon her husband's
shoulder.

passion ! how at this moment art thou goading
our master to destroy the prestige of his Saint-like
reputation ! How longed he there and then to take off
the mask and make the girl conscious he was a lover
in earnest ! He could scarce restrain himself from clasping
her to his bosom, and bestowing upon her the
thousand kisses Graham had derisively said he would
have a right on this his wedding day to give.

But no ; he exercised an immense control. He
knew perfectly well were he to seize this opportunity
of awaking the girl from her dream, of enlightening her
as to the nature of his feelings, her confidence would
be gone.

vol. 11.

On going up-stairs to dress for dinner, Helene found
the package of bride's cake on the toilet-table. Monsieur
had indeed done it up a merveille. She must needs,
however, slightly, partially discompose his work. She
must needs put inside the wrapper a slip of written
paper, or Lord Brailsford would remain unconscious
from whom the package came. But besides finding the
bride's cake, our little Gipsy found in the room, waiting
to receive her commands, a new maid. The girl hated
having a new English maid. Education and early habit
had rendered her more at home, more at her ease with
men than with women servants. And now, when she
steals a glance at this new maid, she is perfectly aghast.

Prim, formal, consequential looked the woman, her
age perhaps forty. The old Brierly butler had strongly
recommended her as a most trustworthy servant. And
Sir Charles, to say the truth, had been well content to
have about his little wife, in place of the now absent
Mrs. Bird, a woman of mature age and unquestionable
character.

Helene was aghast. She could not dare, with those
curious eyes watching her, complete her childish scheme.
How could she for the moment rid herself of the

creature ! time was precious. But now suddenly it
occurs to her that the dress which she intends to wear
is yet packed up, that the box containing the dress is
happily out on the landing. She will give the key of
the box to the old maid, and tell her to get out the
dress. She will thus temporarily be rid of her odious
presence.

She gives the key ; the woman disappears. Helene,
trembling with the various excitements of the day,
hastily shuts-to her door. Not a moment is lost. The
girl flies to her dressing-case, finds there a little sheet
of note-paper, pen, and ink. Another moment and she
has inscribed on the paper, "The promised token, to
Lord Brailsford, from H. G. G. D."

To disturb the precision of the package as little as
possible, she slips this written paper in without considering
whether it would be visible on first opening
the wrapper or not. There was not time to seal it
up ; that she must do when she came again to this
room after dinner. Yet no, she will not run the risk.
She lights a waxen match, the seal is set.

Twice had the important maid tapped at the door
before her lady bids her come in. When she is
admitted, she looks her astonishment. She evidently
feels wounded by the bride's unceremonious conduct.
Our little Gipsy looks too, scrutinises again, speaks
scarce a word ; and when she descends to the drawing-room,
tells Sir Charles what an odious person he or the
housekeeper or some one has provided.

Our poor master feels annoyed.

Have you seen her ?" asks the girl, laughing.

"Depend upon it, she keeps a cane under her apron,
and if I am disobedient I shall come in for it. the
starch, the whalebone !"

My dear child, you really have not had time to
form a just opinion. Half her formality will disappear
when you know her better. I am told that the woman
has a ten years' character, and only left on account of
her mistress's death."

She will never have a ten years' character from
me," cries Helene. " I should only survive one under
her rule."

Pray, do not let such a trifle disturb you to-day,
my love."

Disturb me ! Oh, no. If I am to have this
maid  "

"Hush," whispers Sir Charles, pressing the little
hand that lay familiarly on his knee ; and when the
girl looks round the portly butler is advancing to
announce that dinner waits.

Do not say anything before him," whispers again
our master ; " I believe he is nearly related."

"Worse and worse," responds the Lady Daubigny,
for she had wit enough to comprehend that to rid
herself of the new maid would be to upset the whole
household, over which the butler, conjointly with the
housekeeper, ruled and reigned in unmolested despotism.
She could not but feel somewhat aggrieved.
She thought that her husband might have waited and
allowed her to select her own maid. She remembers,
too, that after dinner she has to see Monsieur and give
him directions about the package. So the girl is more

silent than usual. Sir Charles also is very silent during
dinner, he is thinking painfully. He is thinking that
his .little wife does not seem as he would have had
her seem, absorbed in that sort of sensitiveness arising
from her novel position. He almost doubts whether
she fully comprehends her altered position, she seems
so precisely the Helene Graham she was when no
exciting change was hanging over her. He would
have had her indifferent, on this day at least, to the
trifles of the world; he would have had her darkly-fringed
eyelids weighed down by a mingled consciousness
of love and timidity ; he would have had her blue
eyes droop before his gaze. His own heart is so full,
his passion almost oppresses him.

The fact was, that Helene still deluded herself, still
believed that the ceremony of marriage having been
performed, Sir Charles and herself would still be in the
same relation to each other as heretofore. "When she
gazed on that spirituel countenance, that gentle dignity
of carriage, when she thought of their long-continued
placid intercourse, she could not, or she would not
believe existed in her Saint's heart aught but the holy
love of a guardian or a parent ; and, as we have said
before, another sort of love offered by that man could
only be coldly repulsed or painfully endured. She
would inquire about nothing, no domestic arrangements.
She had determined not to inquire lest she might discover
anything to startle her out of her fancied
security. Hence had her wedding day been a day of
trifling.

All dinner-time, whenever she happened to look up,

she could see that the eyes of the " chief butler " and
the eyes of the two younger men in attendance were
turned either upon herself, or were busy investigating
the sad and distrait countenance of our master, and, as
we have remarked before, there was very little discourse
going on between the newly-married pair. The girl,
after a while, observing the unsatisfactory appetite and
gloomy air of her Saint, asks if he has the headache.

Not exactly."

"Not exactly!" repeats Helene. "I should have
thought you would have known positively."

Well, I have not the headache," he answers coldly.

Then why do you eat so little ? Do, pray, have
some chicken."

Hereupon the obsequious servants bring chicken
again to their master.

No," he says, " no," signing with his hand impatiently
to take it away.

If you eat so little," cries the girl, smiling, " I must
curtail my own doings."

The only answer she receives is a sigh. Our little
Gipsy is glad when dinner is over. She does not quite
like the manner of her husband. What did it betoken ?
She is glad to leave him, glad to run out with Pug, glad
to find Monsieur on her return standing where she had
directed he should be, on the landing.

You are to take this," she says, as she brings from
her room the package, " you are to take this to Lord
Bedingfield's early tomorrow. You know the London
house ?"

The man smiles, and answers, " Ah, oui, Madame."

You are particularly to ask if Lord Brailsford is at
home. If the answer is yes, then you are to say that
the package is to be given to him immediately. But,
remember, if Lord Brailsford is not at home, if
he is away from home, do not leave it. Bring the
package back here, and without a word return it
quietly to me. Do you understand ? " asked the beautiful
Gipsy.

Tres-bien, mi Lady. Merci, Madame. Je suis
votre tres-obeisance. Pardon, mi Ladi, je vous souhaite
le bon soir, de grand bonheur," and smiling, as the
girl feared, significantly, St. Amour was gone.

Helene," says Sir Charles, when presently our little
Gipsy enters the Brierly drawing-room, " Helene, as I
crossed the hall I think I heard you in conversation
with St. Amour."

Mais, oui, certainement," answered the girl, colouring,
" I was giving him orders to do a trifling errand
for me in London."

I do not wish to fidget you, but, indeed, you must
be very careful with St. Amour. These foreigners are
apt to presume."

This foreigner is an exception," answered Helene.
"He always behaves with the utmost deference and
propriety."

"I am glad to hear you can speak in the man's
favour; but have a care. Does he ever mention my
unfortunate nephew's name to you ?"

Never, unless compelled," murmurs Helene sadly.

"Tresham has always had a great fancy for the
man."

I assure you, sir, if you have any idea that tiny
conversation related to poor Tresham, you are entirely
mistaken."

My dear," continued Sir Charles with an unusual
gravity of manner, " what I had to say did not relate
to my nephew. It was on the other subject I wished
to caution you, and for this reason. In your earliest
days, when living abroad, you must frequently have
seen men-servants allowed a familiarity unusual in
England. St. Amour, no doubt, is very useful, very
clever. He has been with me so long that he has
learned to use a liberty no new man would presume to
use. He may, on the strength of his long service with
me, offer you a thousand little attentions. All I ask
is that you keep the fellow at a distance."

The girl might have replied, but at this moment one
of the two men who had waited at dinner brought in
the tea-tray, next moment came the tea-urn. She
arose and busied herself making our master's tea, of
which he professed himself to be much in need.
While partaking of his favourite beverage, the little
Gipsy was ruminating over her promised token. She
began to be sorry that she had despatched it, sorry
that she had, by thus privately employing St. Amour,
established as it were the very familiarity Sir Charles
had just warned her against. So Helene sat sad and
silent, distrait in her manner.

Suddenly her husband asks her at what hour she
will go to her room. " We' he says, " have had a
trying day. I suppose you will not be sorry to find,"
pulling out his. watch, "that it is about your usual

hour, and as I suppose you will like to go to the room
alone, I must wait."

The girl starts from her reverie. Her deep blue
eyes for an instant are turned towards Sir Charles ;
"but by the time his disjointed sentence is completed
her gaze is anywhere but on him. The wildest confusion
reigned, she really knew not what to say.

Shall I ring at a quarter-past ten ?" he continues.

Being for what ?" Helene falteringly asks.

For the housekeeper. She considers it her duty
and her privilege to see you to your room, that she may
explain, she tells me, as to any deficiency."

dear," murmurs the bride, putting her hand to
her head, " what a world ! Must I, indeed, see this
strange woman to-night?"

Indeed, my love, I see no escape for you ; but it
will soon be over, a few minutes at the most, for what
could she have to say ?"

My brain is so bewildered," murmurs Helene sadly,
that her words will scarce find entrance."

You see, my dear child, owing to the absence of
Mrs. Thornbury on our arrival, I gave you possession of
the wrong room."

On reaching the nuptial chamber, which was lighted by
tall waxen tapers standing on the mantelpiece and on
the dressing-tables, and which was decked out as though
for a gala-night, on reaching this room, the housekeeper
just entering it, and still holding the door as
though soon about to depart, commenced an apologetic
discourse. " Madam, I must beg, if everything is not
arranged according to your mind, if you should find
any deficiency, I must beg you will let me know."
Here the stout dame paused an instant to recover the
breath that mounting the stairs had rather disarranged.
I am getting in years now," she continued, " my
memory is not so good as it was, but I hope all is
right ; and, Madam, I must further beg to add that if
I should appear officious, if I should seem in your way,
you will not hesitate to inform me. But the fact is, I
have for so many years had the house and the servants
at Brierly so completely under my own control, and I
was so little prepared for this happy event," curtsying
as she spoke. " Your Ladyship is not perhaps aware
that Sir Charles, until a few weeks ago, never hinted
of the change. I must confess, Madam, I was startled.
We had so entirely come to think matters would

remain as they had been. I am sure, Madam, you
have my best congratulations, and the old servants,
Madam, if I may presume to say so much to your
Ladyship, are earnest in their hopes that a blessing-may
rest on their master and yourself. I ha'
given them all leave to have a merry-making' this
evening', and sure, my Lady (curtsying), it would ha'
done your heart good to see their happy faces, and
to ha' heard their bonnie toasts. Long life and better
health to our master, and one of his own bairns to
come after him, drinks old butler." Here Mrs. Thorn-bury
could not help laughing a little, her abundant
fat quivering slightly with the effort. " Yes, Madam,"
she continues, " our master has been so good a master
to us all, his wishes must be ours, and sure enough Sir
Charles may well hope to have a son of his own
now."

The girl, confused and disgusted, moved some paces
away, and pretended to be looking for something. She
hoped the harangue was over. But she had yet worse
to hear.

Sir Charles ha' had his hopes so bitterly disappointed
in Mr. Tresham, that none of us can wonder,
and yet, Madam, I must feel for the poor young
gentleman. He ha' been always so certain sure, never
a breath whispered, and now, Madam, every prospect,
as one must hope, of his losing' all."

Indeed," cries the girl, unable to restrain herself,
you must be mistaken ; Sir Charles would never
contemplate an injustice of this sort."

Ho ! but, Madam, who could wonder ? Perhaps, my

Lady, you a stranger, ha' never heard of Mr. Tresham's
wild courses ? "

Yes," murmured the poor bride, " I have heard ;
but however wild he might be, your master would
never be unjust, and besides," added Helene in beautiful
confusion, "I sincerely hope, I feel quite sure
everything will remain exactly as it has been."

The housekeeper smiled and shook her head incredulously,
and then to Helene's still greater dismay
again pursued the subject.

Mr. Tresham has always been backwards and forwards
among us till o' late. In the last few months
we ha' seen him scarce at all. Last Saturday, however,
he did come, and went and looked over the things in
his own room, and asked me about his uncle, and
afore he left he got me to help him carry this
clock, Madam," pointing to a clock standing on
an escritoire. " He said it was a sin and a shame
such a fine old clock should be left austin' there.
He bade me tell you, Madam, that 'twas his  his
souvenir."

I did not know," murmured the girl with beating
heart and blushing cheek, " that Mr. Daubigny had a
room of his own here."

Oh dear, yes, Ma'am, and his dogs and his horses ;
but somehow he 's grown careless now, and didn't even
go look at the poor animals. I thought, my Lady, he
seemed sadly cut up, and no wonder. It's a chemin'
clock ; there, Madam, you hear ? But indeed I mustn't
be a-trespassing a minute longer. Madam," with a
meaning smile, " may you have a happy, happy married

life !" and curtsying, the fat and talkative Mrs.
Thornbury withdrew.

Oh, what further, deeper confusion had the scarcely
sober housekeeper's words awakened in the young
girl's mind ! What a blast of pain seemed to scorch her
very heart ! Oh, why had Tresham set the clock upon
that escritoire  there, there to tick all day, all night,
to chime at intervals, save to keep himself perpetually
in her memory? And oh, what deeper anguish for
every soul in that house to believe that he should be
disinherited for her pleasure. Never, never should hebe
if it lay in her power to help it. The hapless child
was so distressed, so disturbed, so confused, she scarce
knew what she was about. Her little hands trembled
so, they were almost powerless to unlace her bodice
and her stays, but she was thankful all the same that
she had no one to witness her agitation. She gazed
on the fine furrowed bed, and she shuddered ; she
could never get into it. She sought for her dressing-gown,
and cast it over her. She sat trembling at the
toilet-table.

On entering the bride-chamber Sir Charles experienced
a sensation of mingled dismay and embarrassment,
for he saw his little bride still sitting before
the toilet-table arrayed in a pretty dress of white
muslin. The girl's head was bent down, bent down so
low that her face rested on her hands.

He advanced towards her, and leaning over her
shoulders, said with an endeavour at playfulness, " Why,
my love, I thought I should have found you abed and
asleep."

I am too wretched," murmured the young wife.

"Why, what can have happened?" he asked in
accents scarcely steady.

Nothing has happened," answered Helene, " but
from your housekeeper, who conducted me hither, I
have heard something qui c'est incapable, which I
can scarce believe."

What can you have heard ?"

Something that touches me most nearly, yet I
know not how to find words to convey my meaning.
It is hard to have imputed to me a treachery, an
injustice which Heaven knows fills my soul with
abhorrence, and it is with such a prestige I arrive at
your house, and it is of this misconception your very
servants are babbling."

"Are you gone mad, Helene?" asks the master; "if
not, pray explain yourself."

I cannot," cries the girl, bursting into a passion of
tears. " Go ask your housekeeper, who told me ; go
ask your servants, who are drinking toasts to their
odious wish."

You grow more and more incomprehensible."

The girl gets more excited. " You will not understand,"
she cries; "mais scouted je ne puis rien dans
cette affaire cela ne se peut pas. Oh, faut-il qu'il soit
dit que e'en suis la cause."

Helene, tell me in plain language what you allude
to," cries our master.

If it is true you yourself must know," retorts the
girl, " if you intended me, as these people aver, to bethe
medium. Oh, 'tis your people here who have

initiated me into the mysteries of your heart. They
whisper, nay, they proclaim over their merry-making
that the boy you once loved as your own, the man who
has lived in the world's belief as your heir, shall now
be disinherited."

Ha !" exclaims Sir Charles, " and it is this possibility
that distracts you ?"

As well it may," cries Helene, weeping anew.

Sir Charles strode backwards and forwards over the
floor of the bride-chamber in wrath, in agitation, in
perhaps unjust anger and suspicion. Presently, as he
continued this restless, ceaseless angry walk, breaks
from him, almost in a tone of satire, the next few
sentences. " It is not usual, I should suppose, for a
young girl, a delicate-minded girl, a new-made bride, to
touch on such a subject, but since it has been introduced,
pray let there be a proper understanding. I
have provided against any such unlucky accident
as you are pleased to allude to. My will is in progress.
I may sign it possibly in a few days. Sinner as he is,
yet Tresham shall have justice at my hands; even
though I left a child at my death, God has been so
bountiful to me that I am able to provide for my
nephew in a far handsomer manner than he deserves."

How was the girl shocked by the satirical allusion
of her husband, and how ashamed she felt of having
suspected him of a meanness and an injustice so
contrary to his nature ! She could not stay her tears ;
now and then broke from her quite a childlike sob.

Presently again Sir Charles addresses her. " Is it
your pleasure, Miss Graham," he says, " to sit at the

toilet table all night bewailing the fate of my nephew?
Remember," he continues, and there is a new, a stern
determination in his voice and his manner, " remember,
if I find any sort of shrinking from the performance of
the duties, the endearments, the obedience a man hasa
right to expect in a wife, right or wrong, I shall
attribute such failure, such coldness to a cause, a circumstance
I fain had never more alluded to. Yes,
Helene, that stolen embrace, that hour of secret
dalliance will assume a significance, a proportion, a
depth, a weight to fill my mind with dark and horrible
suspicion."

At these last words the girl lifts her hidden face.
The beautiful eyes send forth a lightning of indignation,
the whole countenance expresses scorn and
indignation, and she cries, " Sir Charles, have the
goodness to leave the room. I did not tear myself
away from papa, throw myself into your arms, as he
said. I did not do this to endure reproach. Tomorrow
morning, if you will allow me the use of your
carriage, I will return to Wodebourne. Will you, sir,
be pleased to go now, I say, this instant ?"

No, Miss Graham," retorts our master, " I shall not
be pleased to go. If you are determined to seek your
own undoing and to break my heart, it shall never be
said that I had a hand in bringing about such a
catastrophe. You shall take the steps you elect to
take without my aid, and remember, the blame attaches
wholly to yourself."

Sir Charles, I say that it is you and you only who
are to blame," cries the little vixen.

"What!" exclaims he, "I to blame! Have I not
seen through the whole day an indifference to, an utter
heedlessness of our altered position ? Surely I might
have expected when the law of God and man enjoins,
sanctions it, some demonstration of warmth, of tenderness
?"

I did not know such was your expectation," answers
our little Gipsy. " Why did you not furnish me with
a programme setting forth my duties ? Indeed, I had
no idea that the few sentences the priest rehearsed
(not one of which I listened to) must necessarily affect
our position. We were living peacefully. Is this mere
ceremony to make us wretched?"

Miss Graham, I will no longer oppose your wishes ;
I will almost instantly quit you. To-morrow morning
you shall return to your father. What will his
mockery, his triumph signify? I see very plainly
that you regarded me but as an old mountebank
playing at marriage. I am not the thing you have
taken me for."

There is certainly nothing of the mountebank about
you just now, sir, rather the tragic style ;  Othello, for
instance," cries the provoking girl.

And what has caused me so far to forget myself ?
Even your father, were he to know of the circumstances
that occurred at Avonmore, and the state of
frenzy you are in to-night, would cry out. Go, leave
me, and I will explain to him how near you were to
destruction."

The girl's wild cry stayed her husband's words. She
saw that she had indeed no place of refuge save the

vol. 11.

bosom she was tearing with anguish. She hastily
arose from her chair by the toilet-table, and with that
strange inconsistency a part of her nature, and with
that grace of manner her peculiar charm, threw her
arms around our master, gazing as she did so imploringly
into his dark and troubled eyes. The fact was,
his threat had awakened more fear in her heart for
Tresham than even for herself. She knew full well
that were Graham to be made acquainted with the
sinner's conduct during his stay at Avonmore he would
be indignant enough. He would certainly become full
of suspicion ; he might be led to question her closely,
and might possibly discover how the reckless Daubigny
had continued his overtures and his persecution since.
And then, in face of such an insult, there could only be
one mode of reckoning between her father and her
lover. So the little Gipsy throws her arms around
our master and gazes on him beseechingly. Enthralled
by passion, anxious now for an opportunity of throwing
off the mask he hitherto had worn, Charles Daubigny
was not slow to avail himself of this supplicatory
caress. Instantly he returns the embrace. Pressing
the girl to his bosom, he bestows upon her a tithe of
the thousand kisses Graham jeeringly had told her he
would have a right to bestow. There was no escape
for the little wife. She did not even dare to remonstrate
or object ; but as the girl felt herself pressed to
that beating heart, and endured the kisses he lavished
upon her, nature was so outraged that a thrill of cruel
feeling oppressed her. She loved our master with a
pure, a holy love ; she had regarded him with almost

a species of veneration. There was pain, real pain in
her heart for him as well as for herself. Such was her
first, her instantaneous impression. But when releasing
her from his closer embrace, he held her at arm's
length and gazed upon her, still clasping her so she
could not fly,  when she beheld his countenance lit
up by a kind of ecstasy, of passionate delight, most
shown in his magnificent eyes, the girl could not but
confess to herself that though her Saint had fallen from
the shrine in which her imagination had placed him,
yet in this moment of exultation, of earthly exultation,
Charles Daubigny still retained (almost to her incomprehensibly)
a degree of dignity, a spirituality, a
refinement to raise him above her contempt. As he
gazed, upon her now, he had all that he had so longed
to find in her, and had never seen before. The girl
blushed as he held her ; her eyes were averted or cast
down. He knew not, poor man, that fear for another
had rendered her at first so passive, had induced her
to endure his kisses. But his boldness, his determination
had given him an advantage. The girl had seen
that passion sat so well upon him, added such a charm
to his always interesting countenance, that her tenderness,
her affection had survived.

"lis the next morning after that that had given our
master assurance of his hope. When he first awoke,
it seemed like the awakening from some too happy
dream ; a moment later thrills through his soul a
mingling of anguish with his joy. The girl slumbered
on beside him unconscious of his gaze. How beautiful
he thought her, but her beauty was not precisely of its
usual character. The long tawny lashes rested not on
a rosy but on almost a pallid cheek. She looked wan
and sad, and he could see that those tawny lashes were
even yet sparkling with the tears she must silently
have shed. He sighs as he gazes. Softly he arises
and leaves her thus sadly slumbering. He quits the
room unheard, he dresses in his dressing-room, and
then descends to the breakfast parlour. His mind is
full of agitation. Oh, what signified to its owner, its
possessor, all the beauty of Brierly ? Does he care or
heed that the morning sun shines in all its glory on
the gay parterres of the flower-garden without ? Does
he know that the bees and the butterflies are already
on the wing ? Does he hear the glad song of the birds
as they flit 'mid the flowering shrubs that deck the
velvet lawn ? He gazes indeed out of the open Trench

window, but he notes not the view that greets him, that
view that to another less preoccupied would have
seemed so lovely. He sees not the undulating lawn
stretching afar, bounded by the mighty ferns and rushes
that grow beside the murmuring brook. No, this
house, his home, his fortune, his position is nothing,
nothing to the passion that absorbs him.

The girl is his only hope on earth, her spirit the
angel he would have nearest to him in heaven ; and
though he scarce dare admit it to himself, he doubts
this morning whether her heart is wholly his own, he
trembles lest there be a lack of candour and rectitude
in her soul.

Sir Charles is in the breakfast-room alone, he has
been there alone (as he sees by a clock on a marble
slab hard by) nearly an hour. He has had some tea,
and now he has risen from the breakfast-table and
roams about the room uneasily. His brows are slightly
knitted or contracted, his long shaped eyes look deeply
anxious. Every now and then the thin delicate hands
are pressed tightly together, his manner betokens the
disturbance of his mind. Another quarter of an hour
passes thus. At length the door opens, and Lady
Daubigny enters. She has the yesterday's white
muslin dress on, that which she had worn when lying-stretched
on the lawn beside the brook. It looks a
little tumbled, for Pug had played many antics on it.
As the girl enters now, her steps are staid and slow,
her naturally bright complexion is subdued almost to
paleness. " I am dreadfully late," she says, " but I do
not want any breakfast ; give me some tea, that is all.

Do you mind pouring it out ?" and as she says this she
takes a chair to the open window and places herself
there, far away from the breakfast-table.

I am afraid you are not well," remarks our ever
anxious master as he offers the tea. " I never knew
you careless of your breakfast before, Helene."

Have I ever been married before ?" cries the childish
girl. " I am worried ; I am nervous to the last degree.
Oh, why did you bring me here at first ?"

My dear child," remonstrates our master, " I conceived
it to be the proper thing. You had been, as it
were, suppressed ; you had lived incognito long enough.
Had I carried you off elsewhere, had I made a mystery
of our first place of abode, to my mind there had been
a want of dignity in the proceeding,  a disrespect
shown to yourself."

Oh !" cries Helene, putting a hand to her head, " I
really feel unable to bear it all."

You are excited, my dear child. To-morrow you
will feel quite differently."

No, I shall not. If I stay here I shall be more
nervous tomorrow than I am to-day. You must take
me away. It is quite enough to be married without
all the rest."

And what is all the rest but in your imagination ?"

No, it is not in my imagination. I perfectly dread
another encounter with the housekeeper. I cannot
endure the maid she has given me."

My dear love, what would you have ? " asked the
sensitive baronet in alarm. " Must I dismiss the old
housekeeper ? The maid, of course, we can get rid of."

No, no," answers the girl. " Indeed, I do not want
you to make any alteration here. Leave them all just
as they are. Only, only take me away. Let me go
somewhere where no one will stare at me, no one will
wonder over me."

Helene," answers Charles Daubigny gravely and
sadly, " this is a serious affair. I really cannot live forever
as I have been living. God has been pleased to
give me fortune, station, duties to perform. We must
both strive  "

Let me have time," cries the girl in accents that
trembled. " Eemember you so altered, so different from
the man I thought I was to marry. This alone has
agitated me extremely."

Charles Daubigny could not entirely suppress his
amusement.

"Why do you mock me?" cried Helene. "How
could I imagine such a change ? But a few hours ago
I could have laid my head upon your shoulder and you
would have let me be in peace. Now I have no such
haven of rest."

Try me after the breakfast is gone. I will indeed
be passive ; yes, cold and rigid as a Saint in

effigy"

No," retorts the girl. " I should see your eyes, I

should feel your heart beating."

Surely I had the same eyes, the same heart."

No," murmurs the girl. " Your eyes have lost their

holy light ; your heart throbs too fast. I dare no

longer trust you ; that is, I cannot feel the same rest,

the same confidence."

Poor little angel ! " murmurs our master ; " what is
to be done?"

This' continued Helene, " this alone is enough to
upset me. Then add to this change in you a housekeeper,
who evidently thinks I am de trop  a consequential
English maid to stare."

Let me know, let me hear your antidote, Helene, to
all this fancied poison," inquires our master.

To go away, to travel somewhere alone. I shall
grow calm."

Like very Bohemians, without so much as a servant
?" asked the delicate, dignified-looking Daubigny.

I never said so," retorts the girl. " Monsieur will
be back in a few hours. He can be with us."

He then is a favourite ? "

I never mind him," replies the childish girl. " He
seems as nothing."

There then we entirely differ. No one makes
better use of his eyes or his ears ; nothing escapes his
notice. Only he has the craft to conceal."

Well, all this may be, but I am used to the man.
He has no gauclwrie."

The master silently mused for a few seconds, then
turning his gaze full upon the girl he said, " And if I
give way to this childish whim, Helene, if to oblige
you I condescend, as I must, to prevaricate,  for indeed
I shall have to frame some plausible reason for our
sudden departure,  if I give way, tell me what will
be my gain."

Oh, you will indeed gain a great deal," murmurs
the girl, " that is," she added, and the blush the master

prized so much suffused her pale cheek, " that is, if you
want me to love you in this new way. Yes, by the
murmuring waves I will listen  "

By the waves, Helene ! Then 'tis the sea side you
covet ? Is it to be a foreign shore ?" he asked, smiling,
or will an English one suffice ?"

dear ! How could you imagine that I wished
to drag you abroad, entailing on you a hundred inconveniences
? "

My dear child, just now I believe you are scarcely
considerate enough to think of my convenience."

But, indeed, I never dreamt of our travelling far to
any out-of-the-way place. I only want to go for a
month or six weeks to any sea-side place ; any place
but Dover."

I am somewhat relieved, I confess," continued Sir
Charles, intently regarding the girl as he spoke, " I am
somewhat relieved to find that your ideas as to time and
place are so circumscribed. But, really, my love, I am
very much in the dark still. Does it seem probable,
possible, that the mere living in a badly furnished
house on a Parade  "

It will not be the house, of course, or the Parade
either that I shall care for," cries Helene eagerly,
but I love the sea. You love the sea. There will bea
freedom from constraint. We shall wander on the
beach together. You will take me out in a boat. I
love to see you handling an oar, or steering, or dreamily
gliding over the foamy waves. And does not the
breeze from the sea always agree with you ? Papa
was incessantly telling me that never man improved

in appearance so much as you while we were at
Dover."

Of what avail has this improvement been to me ?
Nay, I could almost wish myself ill again. Helene,
your manner was sweeter, gentler, tenderer, when you
thought my case altogether hopeless."

The conscience-stricken girl, touched by the sad
tone in which our master spoke, touched by the sadder
tenor of the words he had uttered, hastily arising
from her seat, and casting her arms around him, murmurs,
" I do not wish to live one hour longer than thyself.
Were thy spirit fled, life would indeed be a
desolation to me."

Am I to believe this ?" asked Charles Daubigny.

You dare not say that you doubt my love," answers
the girl ; " 'tis only its nature, its character you
doubt ;" and blushing as she hid her childlike face on
her husband's bosom, she murmurs forth, " La mere
clamour thou knowest sprung from the waves. Peut-ere
en ce lieu-la as I listen to thy voice I may become
love, love itself."

Thou art love, love itself," muses our master, as
gently, discreetly he returns her embrace, but he would
not utter his thoughts. He dreaded making her too
vain ; so playfully he says, " How came you to know so
much about the wanton goddess, Helene ?"

I do not know so very much about her."

Not that she was faithless, faithless to her husband
? Not that she loved another better ?"

There, now, I have made you hate the sea, I
suppose," cries the girl, releasing herself from the arms

that were around her, and with a weary sigh she turned
away.

No," answers our master gravely and sadly. " We
will try the auspicious element. I will make a fool of
myself this once to satisfy thy caprice. But remember,
Helene, truth I hold to be above all price. If I find
I have been deluded, if I find the same restlessness
there as here, if I find that the night brings but tears,
and the morning an absolute loss of appetite, what am
I to conclude?"

How long must it be for us to stay here V inquired
Helene, disregarding the master's last words. " Must
there be another night ? "

There must. I cannot leave Brierly until tomorrow."


Might we not go this evening ? Could we not
travel in the night ? I remember once travelling in the
night, watching the sun rise in the morning. I have
always liked to remember it."

My dear child, I cannot consent to make myself
quite a spectacle. What should induce a man to travel
in the night in preference to the day, unless compelled
by some urgent necessity ? I have none such to plead.
You must indeed stay here until tomorrow."

Until tomorrow morning then. I will get up
early."

A little earlier than to-day, eh ? "

How much of falsehood, or simulation, or suppression
of truth was there in the girl's given reasons for
desiring so immediately to leave Brierly ?

The housekeeper on the previous night had, as we
have already said, attracted her Ladyship's attention to
the clock in her bedroom, had shown that it belonged
to Mr. Tresham Daubigny, and had added that at his
request it was placed where it now stood. That clock
henceforth for Helene must be invested with a mysterious
interest. Its ticking, to her childish and
superstitious imagination, must sound as a continuous
death-watch in the bridal chamber. Moreover, this
morning her heart had sustained a more cruel wound,
dealt to it, as it were, through the medium of
this ceaseless monitor. The key belonging to the
clock, that which was used to wind it up, Tresham
had left with the housekeeper, charging her to deliver
it herself to Lady Daubigny on the evening of her
arrival at Brierly. But the housekeeper's head, a
little turned by all the drinking that had been going
on at the servants' merry-making, over which she
had been presiding, entirely forgot to give the key
that night, and to repair her error as speedily as

possible, sends it up to Lady Daubigny by the maid
in the morning.

As the formal old maid placed on the dressing-table
that which with extreme precision she informed our
juvenile Ladyship was the key of the clock, as she in
like manner delivered the housekeeper's apology for her
last night's forgetfulness, Helene determined in her
own mind that if that she saw before her were only
the key of the clock, its owner had been marvellously
careful of it. For what met her eye was a three-cornered
curiously-folded envelope of white writing-paper,
secured by a red sealing-wax seal, and as she
took up the little package and examined it, she recognised
the impression on the seal. It must have been
made by a massive gold signet-ring which she had often
seen Tresham wear, and which he had told her was
in fact his uncle's," adding sportively, " but the old
governor's finger has grown too thin for it, and it just
fits mine." At the time Tresham had shown her the
ring in the early days of their acquaintance at Avon-more,
she had pointed out to him the absurdity of
wearing his uncle's ring. With that kind of audacity
peculiar to him, the reckless Daubigny had answered,
What signifies ? These arms I may have a right to
bear any day, any hour. It can be only a question of
time."

As the girl recalled her lover's words uttered in the
past, as she thought of her own present position, as the
housekeeper's hints of last night flashed across her
mind, she almost shuddered over the misty future.
Ah ! what a second does it take to think ! These

thoughts are chased away by another. The sinner had
surely never thus carefully folded up and sealed a
paper containing only a key ; and as Lady Daubigny
felt assured of this, her next thought was, how could
she obtain an immediate glimpse of the interior of the
package. If the wary old waiting woman standing by
her side should see that there was writing inside the
paper, surely she would notice the circumstance. Nay,
she kept so close she might even read the words, for
Tresham wrote in large bold characters. So the little
Gipsy turns to the woman and says, " Will you just go
and see if St. Amour has brought Pug in ? I always
carry him down to breakfast with me."

The prim old maid had a particular aversion to little
dogs, and wondered in her own mind how any lady
could be so ridiculously fond of one. But silently she
went on her errand, and you may be sure that Helene
seized the first moment of her absence to tear open the
package. The girl was not mistaken. Tresham had
thus craftily contrived to convey to her anew the bitter
feelings which possessed his soul, the jealousy that
tormented him. He wrote in impassioned words of the
love he could not conquer, that love that even her own
indifference and cruelty had failed to quench, and
ended by saying that she must not be startled if one
of these days or nights his restless spirit greeted herat
Brierly.

We have seen that almost immediately after reading
this note of Tresham's Lady Daubigny had entered
the breakfast-room, where Sir Charles was waiting to
receive her. She had entered looking but as the ghost

of her usual self. Her naturally bright colour was subdued,
her very steps were slow and irregular, while
a sensation almost akin to faintness took away from
her the power of eating. We have seen that she had
cast herself down on a chair by the open window ; we
have shown how ardently she besought Sir Charles to
take her away.

Surely there was enough in Tresham's note to justify
the girl's desire of flight, and there was yet a smaller
apprehension weighing on her mind that added to this
desire. Scarcely had she despatched the slice of bride's
cake to Lord Brailsford when she began to regret her
folly. Recalling the conversation that had passed
between them at Calais, she now recollected that he
might construe " the promised token" into an invitation
to Brierly. His sudden appearance might involve
her in confusion and dismay.

But to resume the history of the day. Helene
passed its early hours a prey to fluttering of the heart,
resulting from her complication of anxieties, and,
according to our master's prescription, took to the sofa
and perfect quiet. Before luncheon-time she had fallen
into a deep and gentle slumber, from which Sir Charles
could not bring himself to awaken her. Ah, reader !
behold the sensitive baronet shrinking from the gaze
of the jovial old butler and the two lackeys in the
hall as he enters the dining-room where luncheon is
served, and listen as presently, with somewhat heightened
colour, he desires that no one will enter the
breakfast-room, as Lady Daubigny is there asleep.

Helene had eaten nothing since dinner-time yesterday.
Our tender-hearted master felt assured she would
want something when she awoke. Before leaving the
table, therefore, he cuts with his own hands some
dainty morsels from a chicken, he takes the roll that
had been placed by the girl's plate, he splits it in two
and butters one half, he puts salt on to the plate, and
laden with this well-provisioned platter, and a knife
and fork, he re-enters the morning room.

The girl is so thoroughly weary that she sleeps a
full hour after her Saint's return. At length, however,
comes the end of her sleep, the momentary gaze of
astonishment as she first opens her eyes, scarce realising
where she is. "0 dear!" she murmurs, starting up,
what have I been about ? Oh, I remember now, and
you did not leave me ? Is it late ? Is it luncheon-time
?"

Past luncheon-time by more than an hour," answers
Sir Charles, smiling ; " but I have not been unmindful
of you," pointing to the plate.

I must go to my room and put my hair to rights
first," she answers. "It is all in a tangle with lying
down. But will you do me one favour ? Will you
mind looking to see if any one is there ? I really
believe that my heart would flutter as bad as ever if
just now I were to encounter a stranger."

Has my reader ever noticed a beautiful child awaking
from its morning, its noontide sleep, its rounded
cheeks flushed with bright colour, tinted like rose
leaves, its large blue eyes a little wider open than usual,
its coral lips a trifle parted ? It was just thus that our

Helene looked, as all dishevelled she stood begging her
Saint go see if the way were clear.

Struck by the girl's childlike loveliness, an instant
he gazed, then went on his errand.

No one is in the way," he says as he returns ; " no
one is in the room."

Now, like a timid but a graceful gazelle, flies Helene
up the great staircase. She has a nervous dread of
encountering strange English servants. Arrived in
the nuptial chamber, the sinner's clock tells her how
late it is. Saddened by its mournful ticking she
arranges her dishevelled hair.

But the long rest, the placid slumber, has so far
restored her to herself that now she is really hungry.
Hastily she rejoins Sir Charles, and he has the satisfaction
of watching his little wife eat her chicken and
roll in true Gipsy style. Think you, however, this hot
summer day our Helene can eat chicken and roll, and
require no water, no wine to slake her thirst ? No, the
girl says she is dying of thirst, and to satisfy this
exigence the bell must needs be rung.

The old butler, having an immense deal of curiosity,
answers the bell himself. He steals a glance at Lady
Daubigny. He sees her looking so unlike a person
who is ailing, with cheeks like rose-leaves. She is
sitting at a table finishing her roll, the plate before her
stands on the bare polished wood, not even a table-napkin
is under it. The old man's notions of propriety
are, we must confess, a little shocked, and, perhaps
by way of reproof to the little parvenu, as possibly
he takes his master's unknown bride to be, he returns

VOL. 11. P

bearing a fine old silver salver, on which repose a
stately crystal ewer containing iced water, a carafe,
tumbler, and wine-glass equally impressive. Like the
rest of the household, he is sorely puzzled by his
master's marriage  a little affronted by the secrecy
with which the whole affair appears to be surrounded.

It is inevitable, muses the girl, I must forget he was
my Saint. Heigh-ho ! what a thing ! Oh, quelle infortune
! Oh, why did Tresham ever cross my path !
Could I not have loved the uncle ? Oh, it is not a
question ; I must love the uncle. Eh bien ! if I
must sacrifice myself wholly, I will not seem to submit
as a slave to a master ; I will make him conscious that
I am not subdued, frightened into obedience. This
morning I was indeed undone  nervous, horribly
nervous; but I am better. The rest, the sleep, the
drive, the air, has brought back even my colour.

So mused our little Gipsy as she stood gazing at
her own reflection in the mirror before her. That
clock, she murmurs, I hate its ticking ; but it tells me
I must dress, yes, dress to its funereal note. But
women ere now have laughed at death. I have read
of women in the French Revolution, who, expecting
death at night or on the morrow, yet laughed and
dressed, and ate and drank. I must dress this eve for
another sort of death. Oh, Tresham, Tresham ! hadst
thou been but bold, determined, as I in thy place had
been ; hadst thou abjured thy loathed, thy mercenary
engagement; hadst thou but had the courage to be

constant to me, never, never this cruel hour for me,
for thee had been. Tresham, Tresham ! God knows
the anguish of my heart. sad, sad adieu to love
and thee !

Sinking down on her knees beside a cushioned chair,
and covering her face with her hands for a minute, the
girl is lost, absorbed in sorrow ; but the clock strikes,
she drives back her rebel tears, and resolutely rings
the bell.

The formal maid appears. She is instructed what
dress her lady will wear, and presently the dress
specified is lying on the bed. It is of rich gold coloured
silk, trimmed with real black Spanish lace. The
sleeves are so short, they scarce are sleeves ; the bodice,
made far lower than any Helene had ever worn before,
it fits the girl's naturally slender waist and her otherwise
voluptuous form to perfection.

In her hair (only a part of which is braided and
coiled around her head), in her hair she pins with her
own little hands three red, red roses abstracted from
the flower vase in the hall below.

The dress and its every appendage had been furnished
by a modiste of renown. Even the black satin
shoes, with their gold coloured rosettes, the gloves, the
fan, are in keeping. Arrayed in this costly suit, the
most becoming, as the girl believes, that she has ever
worn, arrayed in this recherche 1 costume Helene presently
descends. It is late, it is just dinner-time, and
in a few minutes Sir Charles and his gorgeously attired
little bride are seated at the dinner-table. She has
come to dinner pre determined to be admired. She

has come intending to seem lively, and she does
appear to be in spirits. She laughs, and talks, and
eats, hut her husband is nowise responsive. Helene
had expected to have dealt from those dark, those
lustrous eyes of his, at least some glances of admiration.
She has the mortification, however, of finding that if
Sir Charles does look upon her, it is with evident disapprobation.
The old butler, an contraire, is so struck
by the girl's beauty in her parure, that the gipsy-like
luncheon of the morning is forgiven. No wonder if
the old man admire. Helene's rich Eastern tinted
complexion harmonizes so perfectly with the dress she
has selected. Nature seemed to have taught the girl
how colour might enhance her beauty. Set in another's
hair, the deep red roses might have looked vulgar ; but
placed, without a leaf, 'mid Helene's auburn braids,
they seemed to give a threefold glory. Yes, Helene is
but nature's, earth's own child, and all nature, earth
itself, teems with a bright and vivid colouring.

But to resume. Despite that she knew that she had
looked well, the girl leaves the room after dinner with a
new weight pressing on her already heavily laden heart.
She is conscious that Sir Charles is displeased. Can it
be my lovely dress? she asks herself. Can he think me
extravagant, wasteful, to have worn it this evening?
But no ; he never bids me be careful. Has St. Amour
betrayed my piece of folly with Lord Brailsford ?

That something had vexed her husband she was but
too certain, and disturbed and anxious she awaits his
appearance in the drawing-room. Immediately after
his entrance the tea is brought. She pours him out

the hottest and strongest of cups. She bears it to him
herself. But still he remains gloomy and silent.

Have you the headache ?" at length asks the girl.

It threatens a little, but I trust I may escape," he
answers, " especially as I have a great number of small
affairs to attend to this evening  two hours' work."

How can that be ?"

"Ah, how indeed," cries he, laughing a little, and
not very pleasantly ; " how indeed, when my whimsical
little lady orders me so precipitately to decamp, when
I had been looking to this time of rest and leisure as a
fitting one in which to attend to many little duties I
fear unpardonably deferred ? I have to see three people
before I go to bed, and I must write at least two
letters."

"No wonder," cries the girl, "you have become
heedless of your troublesome wife. You have scarcely
spoken to me since I came down-stairs."

I have been thinking of you, Helene, nevertheless,
thinking of you painfully. Our first short sojourn at
Brierly will always remain for me a sad memory.
Helene, you have, I confess, disappointed, nay, grieved
me."

How ?" cries the conscience-stricken girl, her
beautiful countenance glowing with a blush of confusion.
" If I have seemed indifferent  "

"Hear me," cries Sir Charles, interrupting her.
When I stood with you, knelt with you in Wodeburne
church in the presence of God, when I left } r our
father's house, do you think I expected I was carrying
with me to Brierly but a mere fine picture, or a beautiful

statue to add to my collection in the gallery,  a
vision, a form without a heart, lacking all warmth, all
sympathy, all interest?"

This is outrageous nonsense," cries the girl, " mere
imagination."

It is no imagination. Would any girl who really
loved her husband, who had a right feeling, care to put
on such a dress as you are wearing now ? When you
put it on, you desired only to exhibit yourself as a
picture. If there is a heart beneath that dress, I should
tremble to read it. Either it is full of love for another,
or it is full of idle vanity."

I shall go to my room and leave you," cries the
girl. " You are bent on offending me."

"Go, my dear child, take off the modistes
audacious costume, lay by the foolish fan, and when
you have done so, ask God to pity you, to give you
wisdom."

Helene stayed not to hear another word. She rose
from the tea-table, and went in all haste to the great
chamber.

As she sat there alone, Tresham's clock, like a
death-watch, beating time, fast fell the gushing tears
she had no power to repress.

At length, lest the maid might come and find her
with tear-bedewed cheeks, with her lace-trimmed
handkerchief saturated with tears, the girl undresses
and gets into bed. And presently the formal old
waiting-woman, a very machine in regularity, in order,
does arrive. She starts back in amazement as she
beholds the golden coloured silk dress lying all in a

heap on the floor, the little black satin shoes, the gloves,
the fan, all scattered about where Helene, in her
anger, her sorrow, had tossed them, and Lady Daubigny
abed.

At length the waiting-woman is gone, and the great
chamber left but dimly lighted,  lighted only by the
shaded night-lamp which this careful personage had
lit before she went. In silence, in solitude Helene
grows more reasonable, her petulance gradually subsides.
All that had occurred since the morning of her
marriage rises now vividly before her mind, and as she
reviews every trifling circumstance, she feels that she
cannot be surprised at her husband's disappointment.
She had been indifferent.

what a miserable creature I am !" she exclaimed,
weeping anew ; " no single thing has gone right with
me since I came here. that this last wretched
night were over, and that I were whirling away from
a place I have learned already to detest !"

We must now look after the " promised token."

Lord Brailsford is at breakfast in company with his
father, mother, and sister, when a footman enters the
room bearing a small silver waiter in his hand.
Reposing on the said silver waiter rests Helene's mysterious
package of bride' s-cake.

On arriving at Lord Bedingfield's London house, St.
Amour had inquired if the young Lord was at home,
and receiving for answer that he was, but was then
at breakfast, he had requested the man who opened the
door, and who spoke to him, to convey to the hands of
his young master the package with which our Helene
had intrusted him. According to the girl's directions,
Monsieur was to do nothing further. He was not to
mention whence he came, nor who had sent him. He
followed out his lady's instructions to the letter ; and
the footman, but lately entered into Lord Bedingfiekl's
service, had not the slightest idea that the person who
left the package was valet to his master's next-door
country neighbour.

But let us to the breakfast-table. " My Lord, if you
please, this is sent to you," says the rather innocent
young man who had but recently adopted Lord 

eld's livery. " If you please, it was to be given
into your own hands."

Lord Brailsford stretches forth his singularly white
hand, and with the utmost indifference takes up the
package. He knows not the handwriting on the outside
of the white paper, for Monsieur had directed it.
Partially he opens the sealed envelope, he sees nothing
but a slice of wedding-cake.

"What is it, Steely?" cries his sister. "Wedding-cake
? Who does it come from?"

Some damned fool, I should think," answers
Stephen, for of late the youthful poet had much
altered in temper and in manner, and could and did
occasionally rap out a bad word as roundly as my Lord
his father.

Send it across to me," cries Georgia " I 'in so
excessively fond of wedding-cake, that when I marry
I mean to have at least half-a-dozen."

Take it," answers Stephen with the utmost indifference.


The sprightly Georgina, laughing at her brother's
indifference to what she deemed " a treat," rose from
her chair, went to where he sat, and bore back the
prize. Unlike his young Lordship, she lifts the cake
fairly out of its white wrapper, whereupon all the pith
of the matter falls on to the breakfast cloth. Yes,
there exposed to the eyes of the giddy, gay Georgina
lay Helene's strip of written paper.

Georgina instantly taking possession, and her brother,
perfectly unconscious that she has the clue to the
mystery in her hand, hears her read aloud, " The

promised token. To Lord Brailsford, from H. G.
G. D."

God of heaven !" cries the young Lord, starting from
his seat and turning almost crimson, " where did you
find that?"

"I found it under the cake, simpleton. Come,
come, how changed you are !" cries the gay, thoughtless
creature. "Oh, I'm certain you do know now who
sent it," and as Georgie spoke she fixed her great laughing
eyes on her brother's guilty-looking countenance.

He only answered, " Give me the piece of paper
instantly, Georgina."

That will I certainly not," cries the young lady,
not till you explain the mystery ; you look conscious
to the last degree. The promised token ! Ha,
ha ! Come, tell me, Brailsford, who promised you a
token?"

"I will never tell you," exclaims Lord Brailsford,
nor will I be treated in this manner. Give me that
strip of paper or I will compel you."

The twain had each risen from table, and the noise
they made thus disputing attracted Lord Springfield's
notice. He looked up from the paper he had
been reading.

I will not give it to you," reiterated Georgina.

"Then," cries Stephen, "I will make you;" and,
putting an arm round his sister's waist, he rudely and
angrily took the paper from her hand.

"What is all this disturbance ?" asks the Earl.

Papa," answers Georgie, " Brailsford \s grown into
un sot enrage. There, do you see how he has hurt my

hand, just because I would not give him a piece of
paper with some writing on it."

"What is the meaning of this, Brailsford?" angrily
inquires Lord Bedingfield. " If you cannot use a proper
degree of courtesy towards your sister, you need not
intrude yourself; you had better keep to your own
apartments, sir."

I am very ready to avail myself of your Lordship's
permission, or rather, sir, of your orders," answers the
irritable young man, gathering up the envelope and
the cake that his sister had left on the breakfast table.

"Georgia," says Lady Bedingfield when her son
had left the room, " how could you do so ? "

Scolding me, mamma ! I never heard anything
like that," cries Georgina.

"You see how irritable your brother has grown of
late," continued Lady Bedingfield. " I wonder you are
not more careful, so delicate as he is."

Mamma, it 's temper, nothing but temper," exclaims
the girl. " But for this little affair. Oh, there's
something more in it than you and I can see. Did
you look at him ? Did you see that his hand quite
trembled, that he changed colour ? I declare that his
white cheeks became quite couleur de rose."

"Nonsense, my dear."

Oh, but I am certain. Let me see," continued
the Lady Georgina, placing herself in attitude as
though endeavouring to recall something. "Let me
see. Do I ? I hope I do remember the initials right.
H was the first, then there was a G, another G ; but
the last letter I'm afraid I forget."

If you saw your brother so much concerned," continued
Lady Bedingfield, " it was a reason for greater
consideration."

"You always take Brailsford's part, mamma," cries
Georgie, and mentally she adds, " Some low creature,
not of our world, who has caught his poetic fancy, I
suppose."

But this solution did not perfectly satisfy the young
lady, for she had never yet known her brother to descend
beneath himself ; nay, hitherto his pride, his delicacy
of feeling, had been greater than her own.

The little incident dwelt therefore on Lady Georgina's
mind. She could not dismiss it thence. Standing by
the window that looked out on to the London street,
standing there without seeing anything that passed,
thus had she been ruminating. She must go, however,
and dress, dress with care, for that day, that morning
she had to act a conspicuous part in a grand fancy-fair
for which her patronage had been solicited.

As the girl turns from the window with intent to
quit the room and make her careful toilet, her mind is
yet so occupied with Brailsford's " little affair," that she
pauses on her way by her father's chair. He is still
reading the paper, deep in a speech on agriculture.

Bending over the Earl's shoulder, she says, " Papa."

"Well, my dear ? M Of course Lord Bedingfield expects
a request for money.

"Will you please remember?"

What am I to remember ? " asks his little fat Lordship
absently.

Why, this, that written on the slip of paper I found

in the package of cake were these words, ' The promised
token'"

"Was that written on the paper?" asks her father,
putting down his newspaper and listening, and, with a
smile of amusement, he adds, " A little suspicious, certainly."


Georgina," exclaims Lady Bedingfield, " I desire
that you will never allude to the subject again. What
young fellow would submit to have his private affairs
investigated, his sister, too, to be the grand inquisitor ?
Stephen, thank God, has hitherto been a marvel of
morality. Never once has he given us cause for
anxiety."

You are right enough there, Lucy," says the Earl
with a smile. " The fair nymphs of his own creation
have given him work enough. All I complained of was
the lad's rudeness to his sister. You would not wish
to justify that, I presume?"

Of course not, and it was very remarkable ; but
when Georgina saw that Stephen desired to give no
explanation, she should have desisted, abstained. You
might have seen that I took no notice."

My love," says the Earl a little sarcastically, " 'tis
not every one is gifted with your tact ;" he might have
added, "with your easy-going morality."

"No, my Lord," cries Lady Bedingfield, laughing,
M or haply I might have tripped up over some of your
pet sows and cows."

His Lordship had a smart retort at his tongue-end,
but experience had convinced him of the inutility of
recrimination.

The morning that Helene had looked to as that on
which she might escape from anxiety and temptation,
brought with its dawn but greater disaster.

Sir Charles was too ill to be able to rise from his
bed. He was suffering such extreme pain in one temple
and on one side of his neck, that he could scarcely forbear
groaning aloud.

The girl arose and dressed in trembling and apprehension.
Then ringing, as her husband directed, for
St. Amour, left him in those accustomed hands.

She must breakfast alone ; at least Pug is her only
companion. She feels that so far everything is bad
enough, but matters are to grow worse and worse.

Scarcely has she poured out her own cup of tea when
St. Amour, with his usual bow, coming for one for Sir
Charles, informs her that his master has desired him to
say, that being in such a wretched state he intends
moving into his old bachelor room. The valet further
reports that Mrs. Thornbury is already airing the bed.
His master is anxious to take possession of the old
room as soon as possible, that mi Ladi may not be inconvenienced.


I will go and speak to him myself," cries Helene.

Madame had better not. The least contradiction
Sir Charle scarce endure."

"Nonsense," answers the girl, flying up-stairs and
approaching the bed whereon, half-dressed, her suffering
husband yet reclines. Then kneeling down beside
him, and kissing the one cold hand that rests upon the
counterpane, she beseeches him most earnestly to stay
where he is. Her entreaties, however, are in vain.

A sick man," our poor master answers, " is an intolerable
nuisance."

The girl could not repress her tears. They were,
however, but ill received.

Do not, Helene, I pray, excite me. You have no
conception of my torture, and to see you thus agitated
adds, if possible, to the intensity of my suffering."

On hearing this the little wife departs  departs but
to weep a new passion of tears. The girl misunderstands
her husband's sensitiveness and delicacy of
feeling. " It is quite evident," she murmurs to herself,
" it is quite evident that he does not believe in my
devotion. Papa need not have feared for me. That
sickly breath, as he called it, may never, perhaps, steal
towards me more."

Our poor little Gipsy is quite stricken with sorrow.
She seems forbidden to approach the only person in the
house, except St. Amour, with whom she had ever held
a voluntary conversation. She sits in the breakfast-room,
lonely and wretched, more than once exclaiming,
Helas ! homme propose, mais Dieu dispose."

The girl's loneliness is interrupted, however, by a
visit from the housekeeper. She had prevailed, she

said, upon her master to remain where he was a little
longer, lest changing his room and his bed without their
being properly aired might give him cold. " You will
not mind using another room to dress in just at present,
ma'am, I am sure ?"

"I can use the room that is being aired," answers
Helene.

It is in disorder, Madam, but as you please."

I care nothing about disorder," cries the girl ; " I
am far too wretched about your master to care. Did
you ever know him to be in such extreme pain before ?"

He may have been, ma'am, years ago. He used to
be very bad formerly. I had hoped now for better
things. The valet says, ma'am, with perfect quiet, he
believes in a day or two Sir Charles may be himself
again."

Another or two of such commonplace attempts at
consolation, and the housekeeper withdrew.

Helene knew her way to her husband's bachelor
bedroom. It was in this room, on her first arrival at
Brierly, she had taken off her bonnet, and now, out of
sheer weariness of heart, once more she steals thither.
In spite of the fine summer weather, this morning cold
shivers run over her, for apprehension and dismay have
locked her in their chill embrace. She stands on the
hearth by the great blazing fire, welcoming the warmth
it throws out.

While the girl thus stands, lost in mournful reverie,
gazing on the bright coals yet seeing them not, her
attention is attracted by a loud and angry and continuous
barking kept up by Pug. He is nowhere in

VOL. 11. Q

the room, and must unobserved have scampered off into
some neighbouring room or passage she has not yet
explored. Fearful that his noise may disturb Sir Charles,
hastily she seeks the little rebel, and guided by the
sound, presently in a passage hard by discovers the
offender. Pug had been moved to anger by the appearance
of a pet cat, which he had been chasing down the
length of this passage. The two pets stand now eyeing
each other most maliciously. Puss's tail is twice as
big as usual, Pug's tail more curled, more erect than is
its wont. Her green eyes are full of animosity, his
black ones full of mischief. At this lull in the chase,
at this opportune moment, Helene darts forward in the
hope of capturing her noisy favourite, but the cat takes
fright, runs off, and Pug, struggling violently, escapes
our little Gipsy's grasp.

In all haste the girl pursues the twain, and
following them, presently finds herself entering the
antechamber of a low-ceiled but spacious sleeping
apartment. Here the cat had mounted a boot-rack,
in which were ranged several pairs of riding boots.
Pug, unable to climb, stands barking in impotent rage
below. His mistress seizes upon him, and is about to
quit the room, when her eyes resting on the boots, she
becomes conscious that this indeed must be the antechamber
to Tresham's now forsaken apartment.

Has she forgotten the shape of the sinner's foot, its
lofty instep, the hollow beneath ? And the boots had
been well worn, and bear impress of their owner's form.
And think you it was possible for the love-sick girl to
resist ? No. Though Pug was far from quiescent in

her now trembling hands, with almost a blush upon
her cheek she steals onwards. She surveys that
spacious but low-ceiled chamber which he in happier
days had occupied.

Ah ! she could have knelt down beside the bed and
wept, how bitterly, over their divided and their jarring
destinies.

The hapless girl wends her way back to the fire in the
bachelor bedroom sadder than when she had left it.

Thus had the weary morning passed, and now
presently it is luncheon-time. But ere our little wife
descends to partake of her lonely meal, St. Amour
greets her with a message from his master. Sir Charles
would be glad to speak to the girl.

My dear child," says the invalid, " I grieve for
your loneliness. But indeed I am suffering too intensely
at present to be able to come down. I am, however,
about to get up and proceed to the other room. They
will set the windows open when I am gone from this,
and the housekeeper will obliterate every trace of the
sick man."

How cruel sounded these words to the heart-stricken
girl ! Were they not, though spoken in the tenderest
tone, reproachful ? Oh, now that he was ill, really ill,
how gladly would she have shared his captivity !

But St. Amour informs her that luncheon waits, and
our forlorn Helene descends to the dining-room. She
takes Pug with her. Pug is, at least, a thing that
loves her.

Seeing the cheeks that glowed so rosy bright but
yesterday now almost pale, the eyes full of tears, as his

new mistress takes her seat at table, the old butler
presumes to speak. He says, " It is very sad, ma' am,
very sad, but do not be alarmed, Sir Charles has had
such attacks before. I remember one, ma'am, some
years ago, almost or quite as bad."

Didst last long ?" asks the girl.

A full week, I believe, ma'am. It was caused by a
fall out that he had with Mr. Tresham, the first
disagreement, serious disagreement my master ever had
with Mr. Tresham. Oh, my Lady, no one knows what
Sir Charles ha' bore with."

"Your master," answered the girl, " is such a dear,
good man, that in spite of all Captain Daubigny's
follies, he will not let him suffer."

I 'm glad to hear you say this, ma'am. Glad indeed
I should be if you could make peace twixt master
and he."

The unfortunate girl in spite of herself blushed. To
hide her consciousness she affected to be busy with the
buckle of Pug's collar, and stooping down, perhaps the
old man did not perceive her confusion.

Have I brought exactly what your Ladyship
fancies ? " pursues the man.

I do not want anything more or different, I am
sure," murmurs the girl sweetly, "and I will ring
presently. Will you come yourself?" she added, "as
I am all alone. So many strangers frighten me."

The old man bows, while a smile of gratification
illumines his sleek countenance. His heart is already
kindling with tenderness towards the childlike being
before him.

Two more days, two more nights of dreariness for
Helene had dragged by, and now comes Sunday.

Sir Charles is a strict observer of Sunday. When
living at Brierly he regularly attends the village church
twice a day on Sundays, and endeavours to restrain his
household from desecrating Heaven's appointed day forrest
and devotion. But when this bright summer
morning dawns on Brierly, when birds are chanting
forth their gladdest notes, and flowers are opening to the
morning sun, Charles Daubigny lies stretched upon his
bed, dreading almost to move lest he increase his pain.

The girl softly steals into his room after breakfast to
learn from himself how he has passed the night.

A terrible night, my dear child, I have had," he
answers ; " a little easier, however, now. What time
is it ? Will you look, dear ? the watch is there."

It is a quarter past ten," reports the girl as she
stoops down and examines the watch on the toilet-table.


You are going to church, my love," rather enjoins
than inquires our poor master.

"0 dear, no. How can I?" cries our little Gipsy
in alarm.

Helene, nothing is easier," answers Charles Daubigny
with gravity and earnestness.

"How can I go alone without you? Pray, do not
ask it."

Your maid can take care of 3 r ou."

Oh, pray, let me stay here with you. Let me read
the Bible to you," implores the girl.

"Helene, I ask you as a favour. Perhaps I am

superstitious you will think, but I ask you to go and
offer up a fervent prayer on my behalf. Moreover, my
child, I wish you to set a good example to the people
in the house."

Do you feel so very ill?" asks the girl tremulously,
now sitting on the edge of the bed and gazing tenderly
on her husband's wan and sjnrititel countenance.

So ill that I contemplate getting you to write tomorrow
for Dr. Fuller."

Let me write now, pray do ?" urges Helene.

"Will you do as I require you?" exclaims Charles
Daubigny in a tone of irritation. " Will you go to church
and beseech an ever merciful God to stay my pain?"

I will, I will," answers the little wife, trembling,
however, at the gravity of the errand imposed upon her.

Being the bell then," continued Sir Charles.

The girl rings the bell.

St. Amour answers his master's summons. " Order
the carriage ; Lady Daubigny is going to church," says
the sick man.

Wait," cries Helene. " If I am to go I will not have
the carriage, I will walk. I can see the church from
the window of my room."

Do you like best to walk, Helene ?" asks Sir Charles.

I do like it best," she replies. Then hesitating a
moment she adds, " Will you give me one kind kiss
before I go ?"

No, my child, I dare not ; the slightest agitation
would renew my suffering."

With a heavy heart Helene left her husband's bedroom
for her own. The maid was already there. The

girl tells her what Sir Charles has said  that she would
take care of her.

What dress will you please to wear, ma'am?" asks
the formal creature. " Of course you do not walk,
ma'am ; there would be no time."

I do walk, and I go just as I am."

Oh, Madam, pardon my freedom, but on a lady's
first appearance in church dress is so much noticed."

No one knows me about here. I am not going to
church to make a show of myself. I would not go at
all, only Sir Charles desires it so particularly."

Oh, my Lady, you must excuse me for speaking,
but indeed you will be known. It will not take me a
minute, Madam, just to braid your hair ; and see the
lovely dress I had presumed to lay ready that silver
grey silk, Madam, on the bed. Will you permit me ?
and let me ring and order the carriage  the grass is
very long."

No," cries Helene resolutely. " If once I begin to
think about dress I shall not think of what I ought.
Give me my straw bonnet, that muslin fichu that belongs
to this dress, and I am ready. Go, get your own
things on, there 's a good woman ; and remember you
are to walk with me. You are to show me the pew in
the church, and I can sit at one end of it and you at
the other. No one will know who I am, or anything
about me."

The duenna maid, looking unconvinced, does however
as her mistress requires. She goes hastily for her own
bonnet and shawl ; and whilst she is putting on her
Sunday attire, we will describe our little Gipsy's unpretending

costume. It is a morning dress of muslin, with
a white ground, and sprigs of blue flowers running over
it. Her straw bonnet is gipsy shaped, tied down at
the sides by a wide blue ribbon ; and her beautiful hair
untutored, hangs over or rests on the fichu of muslin
in childlike negligence. Helene, in fact, was in her
garden dress, such as she was accustomed to wear on
ordinary mornings. True, all the accompaniments or
minor portions of her attire were of the most refined
character,  the most delicate Parisian gloves and
shoes, the stockings of cobwebby silk, the parasol
trimmed with lace, the pocket-handkerchief of transparent
cambric.

Yet a bride, so lately made one by one of the
wealthiest men in the county, could not possibly have
appeared in a dress more at variance with her pretensions.


I should perhaps mention that, to add to Helene's
anxiety, she had received by the morning post a letter
from her father, in answer to the one she had written
informing him of her husband's illness. It was full of
the most cruel reflections.

Did I not tell you' wrote Graham, " did I not tell
you how utterly unfit Charles Daubigny was to marry ?
Did I not tell you that your life would be a perpetual
slavery ? However, as far as I can see, your trial after
all may be but a short one. I shall not be surprised
in the least if your next letter calls me to witness his
end. The man has made himself a perfect idiot. I
cannot pity either of you. Nevertheless, if matters
grow more serious, write instantly. I will suppress

my indignation as best I can, and do my utmost to
lighten your affliction."

Helene well knew her father's mode of exaggerating
when he was annoyed. She therefore did not entirely
believe that he himself took quite the gloomy view of
her situation that he said he did. Yet the letter was
depressing, and increases the serious frame of mind in
which she enters the church. The girl is indeed so
absorbed in her prayers that she never once looks about
her ; and when the parson ascends to the pulpit and
gives out his text, her beautiful eyes are only raised to
be riveted on him.

The text was as follows (the preacher was a stranger
who gave it out) :  " And very early in the morning
Mary cometh to the sepulchre, and saith, Who shall
roll away the stone ? for it was very great."

The stranger's sermon, though very simple, was really
a touching one, especially to Helene. He made quite
an original application of his text. He compared the
ponderous stone placed before the Holy Sepulchre, that
stone that weak woman had no power to roll away, to
some mighty sorrow weighing on the human heart. He
compared it to some trouble, some temptation to the
mind's apprehension impossible to grapple with. The
heart is fainting, sinking before its difficulty ; it sees
no way of dealing with the mighty obstacle, when lo,
the clouds of night around are pierced by a ray of light.
God has heard the oft-repeated, heart felt prayer. He
sends His angel to our rescue.

The stranger, who preached in the absence of the
rector of the parish, concluded his sermon something

in this wise  " Remember, ye weak and fainting ones,
whatsoever be your trouble, God can remove or lighten
it. How great soever your temptation, He can give
you strength to resist, or provide a way of escape.
There is no limit to His power. Let there be then no
limit to your faith, your hope, your trust in Him."

At the conclusion of the sermon, in accordance to
custom, the girl and the rest of the congregation join in
prayer with the preacher. Some people, as we know,
make short work of this. Scarcely has the invocation
for peace died away when they raise their heads and
prepare to move. Others, more devout, on the contrary,
continue in mental prayer for some minutes longer.

Helene's heart, so full of sorrow, she is of the latter
class. But when the girl does raise her head, what is
her consternation on beholding  his hand on the pew
door  Lord Brailsford ! Her blue eyes open wide, her
colour languishes, her heart almost flutters as he holds
out his hand, and involuntarily she murmurs some
words of astonishment.

Have I done wrong," the young Lord whispers, " to
be here?"

Not wrong," she murmurs, " but I am surprised."

You could not suppose I should be neglectful," he
added.

Hush," says the girl in a whisper. " Pray be silent.
We can speak presently," for it suddenly occurs to
Helene that this would be an opportunity of repairing
her folly. Turning then to the duenna maid she says,
Will you walk on with the housekeeper, and I can
walk back with Lord Brailsford."

The formal old maid, and indeed all the village congregation,
are a trifle startled by this sudden conjunction.
The Earl and Countess of Bedingfield are the great
stars of the congregation. It is considered by their
rural neighbours an honour to have them in their little
church ; and great part of the year, much to the regret
of the parson and his rustic flock, the Bedingfield pew
is vacant. Now suddenly presents himself the future
Earl. He had never been known before to appear alone
in the family pew. To whom is he speaking ?

So unpretending is Helene's attire ; it is so unlike
the new Lady Daubigny to be sitting alone in Sir
Charles's pew, her only companion a servant, no
bridegroom, that, just as the girl had anticipated, the
good people around had taken her for anybody but
herself.

And now they see the young girl walk down the
aisle with Lord Brailsford. They see that he is so much
interested in his companion that he is careless of all
else, afar or near.

Ah, now they watch the twain as together they thread
their way amid the grass-green graves, to reach by a
shorter route the little gate that opens into a lane they
must cross before they can enter Brierly Park. Some
idlers of the village watch their progress further still.
But our business is to listen and record their words.

How is it you are alone ?" asks the young Lord.

Sir Charles, I am sorry to say, is too ill to leave his
room. I should not have gone by myself, but he
begged me to offer up a prayer on his behalf."

Is your husband seriously ill ?" asks Lord Brails-ford,

pausing for a moment in his walk, and as lie asks
the question, Helene notices a look of excitement in his
green eyes that gives to them almost a beauty, for the
pupils have so dilated, so enlarged as nearly to extinguish
the odious green, there was but a margin left.
Moreover, the cheeks usually colourless, were now a
shade less pale.

I hope, I trust not," answers the girl. " If I had
thought so I do not think I could have left him. But
you know you must have heard of the attacks of pain
he has been subject to for years.

I have," he answered.

Suddenly the girl pauses in her turn. " I am walking
on," she says. " We shall soon be near the house, and
I shall lose the opportunity of saying something to you
that I must say. Do you know that ever since I did
that foolish thing, ever since I sent you the piece of
bride's-cake, I have been quite nervous. Tell me, can
you forget it ? Can you blot from your memory my
thoughtless act ?"

The young Lord, gazing upon the girl's beautiful
countenance as he spoke, answered derisively, " Lady
Daubigny," he said, " you ask an impossibility.
Death can only efface from my memory what you are
pleased to term your thoughtless act. How deep has
been, must be my gratitude! But the knowledge that
the bride's-cake brought  I had looked to our meeting
some future day at Brierly. But how could I
suppose that one so young, so unsuited in years to Sir
Charles  " Here the young poet grew confused.

Of course you might be surprised, not knowing the

circumstances that have led to it. But this is not what
I have to speak about. I want you to promise not to
think badly of me for that one piece of folly. I also
want you to remember that I sent the little package
unknown to my husband. Promise me not  to forget.
You will never speak to him of my indiscretion."

The pale, the delicate countenance of Lord Brailsford,
as Helene uttered the last two sentences, was lit up by
a glow of delight, in which, however, mingled a degree
of embarrassment.

You need not fear," he murmured, " I shall never
breathe of your remembrance to any human being."

I must go," cries the girl. " I must not add to my
past folly by lingering another instant. Good-bye."

Our Master at length is recovering. He is no
longer compelled to keep silence. He can move, he
dare turn his head, ay, even use his eyes. But his heart
is heavy, heavy with the resolution which during his
illness he has perhaps too hastily formed. He had
found in the girl a coldness he could not conquer.
His passion had met with no return. Moreover, his
late attack had caused, had left the utmost depression
of spirit. He had determined never more, as it
were, to coerce her into loving him. God had perhaps
ordered it so for the best. He would no longer wage
war against destiny.

Sir Charles is able now to dine down stairs. He is
able to join Helene in the drawing-room after dinner.
He has taken to evening costume.

To-night he is very pale, very wan, but his fine eyes
shine forth perhaps with a greater depth of beauty than
before his illness. That spiritual light that Helene so
often had alluded to had returned ; there was sorrow in
those deep dark eyes, but there was repose, there was
peace.

What are you so busy about ?" asks the girl, leaning

over her husband, resting one little hand on his shoulder,
the other on the sofa-table at which he sat.

I am trying to make up my mind which will bethe
best place for us to go to. This is a book of roads.
I have nearly determined on Hastings."

Oh, indeed ?" cries Helene. "I have no wish now ; it is
over ; I will not have you contemplate such a trouble."

Nay, my dear child, your patience deserves a reward ;
I will not disappoint you. But be not alarmed ; I am
not expecting from the influence of the waves any
miraculous change. My love, I have grown wiser, a
child has taught an old man wisdom. Helene, you
may put your Saint back into his old niche, I trust he
may never fall from it again."

I cannot, sir," answers the girl, looking down, and
trying to suppress a smile. " The holy image has been
far too much shattered in its fall, nothing can restore it.
I must invent a new model to supply its place."

"An old sinner or an old mountebank, eh?"

The old model after all," cries the girl, laughing,
will do, with a touch of earthliness, with an expression
of countenance which, were I an artist, a sculptor, I
could portray but cannot describe."

No, my child ; may God help me to be as you best
loved me,  as you would have me always. I will
exercise a strong control."

The girl kneels down in her old way and kisses our
poor master's hand. He draws it away as though it had
been stuns.

o

"These little familiarities must cease, Helene.
Beware of waking the caged lion."

Then there is a lion yet ? " cries the girl playfully ;
"he only slumbers  a pretty Saint indeed!"

No, my child, I will never, if it be possible for man
to dispose of his own will, if it be possible for man
to govern himself, I will never distress you further.
Regard me as you used to regard me."

And yet I may not even touch your hand. Did I
not always, often kiss it ?" asks Helene.

No answer gives the Saint.

'Tis rather hard," continued the girl, rising from her
lowly attitude and standing before Sir Charles, "tis
rather hard upon me. You bade me forget the tranquil
past and learn to accommodate myself to you in another
character. I have been trying. Ah, 'tis just this,"
continued she with all the playfulness of a kitten,
'tis juste comme 9a. I might eat salmon and lamb
and veal without their proper sauces, and used to such
fare I might think it all right ; but when I had once
tasted these good things, set off by their piquant
accompaniments, when I had grown accustomed to the
higher flavour, to have them served up to me without,
would not the salmon, the lamb, the veal, taste rather
flat r

You wicked little Gipsy," cries Sir Charles, laughing
; " come, sit beside me."

No," says the girl.

The first request I make denied ! " says he.

I did not mean no," murmurs Helene, casting herself
carelessly down beside her husband.

As we have mentioned, Sir Charles sat before a sofa-table,
consequently he occupied a sofa.

What is it you do mean, little sinner ?" cries our
master, throwing his arms around the girl and drawing
her close to his bosom. " Is it this ?" He waits not
for an answer ; those rosy lips that might have laughed
or might have spoken are effectually silenced by contact
with his own.

Helene, grown wiser by experience, offered no resistance,
nay, she either feigns to be or is overpowered by
sensibility. Closing her eyes, her head resting on her
husband's bosom, she suffers him again and again to
repeat his trespass. Not a word was spoken. But
that silent half hour, that sweet resignation on the
part of the girl, awakes new hope, and sends Charles
Daubigny's hastily formed resolution to the winds.

The girl's resignation had brought her comparative
peace of mind, while it had given to our master a sweet
glimpse of delight he had never tasted before. For
Helene was not dear to Charles Daubigny only because
he was passionately in love with her ; she was
dear to him, she was essential to his happiness in
every way.

It is true that the little wife, even now, from time
to time, when suddenly the altered position she occupied
flashed across her mind, would start as one waking
from an ugly dream. It is true that even yet a thrill
of pain would run through her whole being when
occasion or circumstance brought Tresham vividly
back to her memory. But, indeed, she did strive
to banish from her mind the sinner's persecuting
image.

VOL. II. R

This time the promised sojourn by the sea was to be
deliberately arranged. Sir Charles had no taste for
living en zingaree. He had settled more than a week
ago that the place of their sojourn should be Hastings.
He knew Hastings. Some years before he had
occupied a large house there, having Augusta and her
family as his guests. I know not Hastings as it now
is myself. It may be changed so that I should not
know it, but from early association I can see before meat
this minute the inside and the out of the house
Sir Charles had taken. We call it the house, but in fact
it was two houses, so built and arranged that at the
landlord's pleasure they could be converted into one.
The grandfather of the present Duke of Cumberland,
before he became a king, once sojourned in the two
houses thus united.

And now my reader must imagine this large sea-side
house, with the pebbly beach and the restless sea close
before it, and the mighty cliff rising close, too close
behind it, a scene of extreme activity. Eliza, Mrs.
Bird's niece, is already there, with several male and
female servants. Though Breed's Place is so warm, so
sheltered by the cliff, and though the weather is so fine,
yet Eliza has plenty of fires in the house ; and Eliza
cannot help wondering somewhat that Sir Charles and
his little wife so soon are weary of the lovely Brierly,
and think Breed's Place a change for the better. For
Breed's Place had, and perhaps has yet, a gloomy air,
and those two houses thrown into one were made to
seem darker still by all the wood-work in the sitting-rooms
being grained or painted mahogany colour. There

was gilding intermingling in plenty ; but though this
might enrich, it did not much lighten the dark-hued
paint. In a few days Eliza writes to her master with
her duty and so forth, and informs him that she believes
now, whenever he feels inclined, he may venture to
Hastings  everything is in order.

Sir Charles places Eliza's letter before the little wife,
and 'tis agreed between them to start for Hastings on
the morrow.

They have settled to depart early next day, and
the girl dedicates the afternoon of the present one
to packing up her own particular treasures, and in
looking on whilst her old maid packs with such care
and precision as almost to excite the little lady's
laughter.

The evening of this day, Helene's last at Brierly, is
unusually warm and fine. Dinner is over. Sir Charles
has gone into the library to have some discourse with
the bailiff before leaving home.

The girl gazes out at the drawing-room window ; she
drinks in the sweet-scented air; she sees the sun
setting in gorgeous splendour, and Pug is on his hind
legs scratching or rather patting her hand (his way of
asking to go out), and she thinks she may venture
before tea-time to take him as far as the stream that
bounds the lawn.

So our little Gipsy runs up stairs for her mantilla,
and fearing to lose the fast-fleeting time that remains
ere the shadows of evening fall, flies down again, Pug
flying after her. She is lively, lively as a child might
be at the idea of going a journey.

Helene liked travelling and loved the sea, and she
was a trifle conceited at the idea of appearing at a seaside
place as Lady Daubigny, with carriages, horses,
servants about her. For, as we have before mentioned,
Sir Charles was not going to Hastings incognito. He
intends his little wife shall appear there in a style
befitting to her husband's rank and fortune.

So this lovely evening, forgetting her cares and her
fears, Helene trips lightly, almost gaily, over the lawn
till she reaches the tall rushes by the water's edge.
Pug wants to go further ; he ivill go further ; he rushes
over the rustic bridge, and disappears amid the brushwood
on the other side of the stream. The girl calls
as she stands on the elevated bridge, how many times,
Pug, Pug, come back, sir ;" then in softer accents she
entreats, thinking thus to allure her refractory favourite.
But neither the voice of authority nor the voice of tenderness
brings Pug, and she is forced to go in search of
him 'mid the tall brushwood beyond the bridge. After
threading her way through the almost intermingling
boughs for some time, Helene comes upon the rebel.
He is hard at work before a rabbit's burrow, tearing up
the grass with his paws, his jetty nose covered with
earth. Stealthily she seizes him; he wriggles like a
live eel to be set free, whereupon his mistress is compelled
to deal harshly; she scolds and deals him a
smack with her little gipsy hand. Pug had been ill-used
in his puppyhood. Fearing worse, he cowers
down in Helene's arms, and she returns along the rugged
path by which she came. Not more, however, than
half-way has she got, when a rustling 'mid the covert

frightens her. Nay, what is her terror when she
beholds the figure of a man lurking 'twixt herself and
the bridge ! She must go boldly on, but she has a
terrible suspicion that it may be Tresham. It proves
indeed to be young Daubigny. He stands in her way,
he will not let her pass.

"Did I not forewarn you," cries he in a strange
weird tone of voice, " did I not write that sooner or
later you would encounter my shade ? Yes, my little
aunt, I have ventured from the regions of the damned
in the hope of gazing on you once more, once more.
You may wonder why I seek you when no longer I can
doubt of your indifference, when you can bestow a
love token on another, when you can make an assignation
with another ! God of heaven, was ever such
instantaneous, such unblushing infidelity ! On your
very wedding day to begin. My poor uncle, ha ! ha !
and the place of your rendezvous, that Sunday when
the governor lay ill a-bed, that hallowed edifice, the
house of God ! Go on, go on, the faster the better.
But, remember, there is a Tresham Daubigny yet in
the world watching, waiting his turn yet. You scorned
my advances, you trampled on my passion ; would to
God you could extinguish it ! But despite your indifference
it must, it will survive. Yes," continues
Daubigny, " all false and frail as thou art, I but gaze
upon thee, and thy loveliness pierces my soul. Helene,
in mercy, in pity recall the past ! Will you give to that
ugly fellow a grace, a freedom you have denied to me ?"

"Grand Dieu!" exclaims the girl in trembling and
in fear, " I have given nothing to any one. You are

utterly mistaken if you allude to Lord Brailsford ; weare
scarcely on terms of intimacy."

And will you dare tell me this ?" retorts young
Daubigny. "Will you add falsehood of the lips to
falsehood of action ? Will you deny that you sent the
fellow a package on your wedding day by St. Amour ?
Will you dare to tell me that you were not intimate
with him at Calais?"

"Tresham," cries Helene, "yon but know in part,
and thus you misjudge me every way."

If I do then, if only appearances are against you,
give me sweet assurance. Here, here, I crave, I
beseech one kind word, Helene, one fond embrace ; let
me"

I will give you nothing," murmurs the girl in
trembling accents.

Thou dost but wear this prudery with me because
thou art my uncle's wife, eh ? Thou art too wise to
give me an advantage. Nay, now I will not ask, I
will steal, I must, Helene, one kiss, one parting kiss ;
it may be our last on earth."

As Tresham utters these words he approaches the
girl more closely ; he fain had taken her hand in his.
But the little dog that still lay cowering in Helene's
arms, on seeing the stranger's forward movement, started
up and flew at the advancing hand.

Put the beast down," cries Tresham angrily.

I will not be commanded nor coerced." answers
Helene. " I will do nothing you desire unless you
conduct yourself in a proper manner. Let me walk
on, you can walk beside me."

Tresham, perhaps beguiled into a belief that the girl's
heart is softening towards him, suffers her to walk on ;
he walks beside her.

Can you wonder," pursues he, " at my jealous fears ?
If I have said anything outrageous, forgive me."

I do forgive you," answers the girl. " I forgive you
the thousand miseries you have caused me, the many
falsehoods I have had to act and to tell on your account.
But think you that such conduct as this I have just
experienced is like to better your position ? For your
own sake as well as for my own, I beseech you never
again thus stealthily to lurk about. Sir Charles has
the best of intentions towards you. Do not frustrate
them by your madness. Were he to hear of this our
meeting, would he believe it accidental ?"

Our meeting has been no accidental one," answers
Tresham haughtily ; " I had determined to see you
before you left. Had I not met you in the copse, my
form like a ghost had risen before you elsewhere tonight.
Swear to me never again to have any private,
any particular discourse with Brailsford."

"When am I likely even to meet him again ?" cries
Helene, still walking rapidly on. " To-morrow morning
early, I hope, I pray I may leave this wretched place."

 Why are you walking on at this devil of a rate ?
Stay; hear me. In a moment we shall be at the
bridge."

I do hear you ; I listen to every word you say,"
answers the girl, but without diminishing her rapid pace.

You shall not proceed one foot further," exclaims
he, " until you give me some proof of your sincerity."

But Helene saw that she was within a pace or two
of the bridge, and with that extraordinary dexterity,
that aptness that was a part of her nature, she sprang
past the sinner. She had gained the water's edge;
she was over the bridge, and once on the other side of
the stream, no hunted gazelle ever bounded over the
ground at a greater speed. On reaching the house,
stealthily on tiptoe she climbs the great staircase.
Happily no one hears that fairy-like step, the little
Gipsy is able to reach her bedroom unseen, unheard.
She locks the door, she casts herself on to the bed. A
few minutes' rest, a martyr's constancy, a Graham's
courage, enable her to conquer human weakness, and
hushed and buried in that aching heart is the evening's
encounter.

END OF VOL. II.

PRINTED BY T. AND A. CONSTABLE, PRINTERS TO HER MAJESTY,
AT THE EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY PRESS.

OF THE

U University

OF ILLINOIS

s t362o

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/ourlittlegipsyno03stei

31 told

BY

EMMA C. C. Tinman

AUTHOR OF "THF. OLD HOUSE AT Adding."

TN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

jCcmbcm

SAMUEL TTNSLEY & CO.

31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND

1881.

[AU Rights removed.]

v.3

OUR LITTLE GIPSY.

Chapter LIX.

Shall this my story ever venture out of the old oak chest
wherein as it proceeds I deposit it ? If so, and if I
should have a young girl for a reader, she will not be
surprised to learn that our Helene lay awake through
the whole of the night succeeding her evening encounter
with young Daubigny. She arose, indeed, next morning,
how different from the Helene she had been only
the afternoon of the previous day ! Her heart had been
wounded anew, reflection had depressed her naturally
lively spirits. During the night's long hours of wakefulness,
she had recalled, she had gone over and over
again, all that had passed in that startling interview.
She had gathered enough to determine that St. Amour
was a traitor, and she must believe also that he owns a
traitor in Tresham's pay. Would the wily valet, without
recompence, without hope of profit, have cared to
betray her little secret ? It was evident, too, that he
made reports of her conduct, her movements. From
whom but from St. Amour could Tresham have heard

VOL. III. A

of Lord Brailsford's meeting her that Sunday in church ?
In fear and in anguish the young girl had recalled not
only young Daubigny's words, but his looks. She
sees again his long shaped deep blue eyes, their whites
all tinged with bloodshot, the unrestrained and eager
gaze that he had fixed upon her, and memory tells her
that his manner had a freedom, a confidence in it that
she feels to be positively humiliating. That bold and
eager gaze pursues the girl, she almost shudders at the
recollection. She could only find some palliation for
his conduct in the belief that he had been drinking.
She knew that at a distance of ten miles from Brierly
there was a racecourse. She had seen in the county
paper that something just now had been coming off
there, and she tried to hope that the sinner's confident
manner, his eager, disrespectful gaze, his crazy jealousy,
had arisen from the wretched habit in which he indulged.
'Ah, yes,' muses the hapless girl, ' he must
have been drinking with the men he met with at these
races. He might have sat up playing at whist or
carte' all the night before ; he might have snatched, as
it were, but a hasty morning's doze, then up to commence
anew. His brain must surely have been bewildered.'

How poor was this consolation, yet it was a consolation.
She could bear anything from him rather than
deliberate licence  disrespect. How saddening was the
thought that by her own inadvertent folly she had
furnished St. Amour with the possibility of misrepresenting
her !

From Sir Charles our little Gipsy had managed to
conceal her mind's uneasiness, and the untoward circumstance

whence that uneasiness arose ; but lying
awake all night, and thinking so cruelly, had given
her a fluttering heart and a pale cheek.

The trifling disarrangement and inconvenience
arising from their approaching departure, their intended
lengthy sojourn at Hastings, was all in Helene's favour.
Saint as nature had formed him, yet Charles Daubigny's
mind this morning must be a little disturbed. He has
to collect various letters and papers that possibly he
may require while absent from Brierly ; he has to
lock up others which may be left where they are ; and,
besides, the post brings him two long letters, and these
he reads while they are at breakfast. Her husband's
thoughts thus diverted, the little wife's unusual paleness
for the present escapes his notice.

And here, though I may have done so before, I must
again remind the young girl my supposed reader, that
the world she lives in is not precisely the same world
wherein the Helene of our story lived. In Helene's
girlhood, railways were rather novelties than otherwise.
England was only partially intersected by iron rails,
and many people still persisted in the old mode of
travelling. They preferred safety and privacy to speed,
noise, and publicity. They would sooner travel at a
slower rate in their own vehicles, than have the
nuisance of taking tickets at a crowded railway station,
and then (oh ! greater nuisance still), perhaps
have to step into a railway carriage where might be
sitting the last person they desired to meet.

Charles Daubigny had always been rather a shy
man, and we know that he was sensitive to the last

degree. Hence he shunned, evaded railway travelling
whensoever he could. Moreover, he was deeply enamoured
of Old England. He loved a quaint old
English inn, and could put up with its antiquated
ways. He delighted in a dusty highroad, bleached
by the summer sun, running, as a highroad usually
did in those days, between blithe green hedges fragrant
with wild honeysuckle. He loved the time-worn
route no less, when o' one side 'twas bounded by forest-land
or by the wild free common, gay with furze and
heather, on the other perhaps by a venerable park
paling grey with lichen, or green with streaks of tiny
ivy. So we find to-day he travels in an open carriage,
in a britzska, a carriage now as much out of fashion as
the four post-horses and the blue-jacketed wizen boys
who bestrode two of the four poor doomed animals.
Doomed, alas ! they were, to feel the spur day by day
till they could feel no longer. And who thought of
them ? I am afraid not even Charles Daubigny ashe
speeds onwards with his little wife beside him.

Our travellers have not gone more than half one
stage of their journey, when the sky suddenly becomes
overcast. A few large drops of rain fall from a dark
and threatening cloud, and the weather lately having
been so warm, Sir Charles is apprehensive of a
thunder shower. He therefore orders the carriage to
stop, and desires the two grooms in attendance to get
down and put up the britzska's leathern hood. Scarce
a minute and the men are down, the hood is up, and
Helene, thus sheltered, and weary to the last degree
from her last night's sleeplessness, lies back in mournful

silence, forgetful for the first time since her encounter
with young Daubigny in the coppice that she
has to act a part.

Helene was not naturally given to be silent, neither
was it her custom to lie languidly back in a carriage.
Her husband, too, had expected that the idea of the sea
and travelling, both of which she delighted in, would
have given a new impetus to her spirits.

"Are you well, my dear child?" presently he says,
and the little wife finds our poor master gazing
anxiously upon her. " You look pale, Helene."

The girl's cheek flushes now with rosy colour.
Consciousness of her own reserve or simulation causes
a glow of shame. But she perseveres in her acting.
I have a headache," she answers. " Perhaps because
you think there will be thunder. Oh !" she continues,
now that you have had the hood put up, no one
will see me, I may take off my bonnet and rest my
head on your shoulder. May I? Will you let me?"
Poor unsuspicious Saint, he not only offers his shoulder,
but so disposes an arm around her that she may rest
more at ease, and Helene, thus cosseted, nestles down
against her husband, much as a child would nestle
against its nurse.

Quietly enough the carriage speeds over the next
mile of road, but in that quiet mile our little Gipsy
contrives unwarily to fall asleep. She can act no
longer. She is apt to talk in her sleep, and presently
Sir Charles is aghast. He hears her in an excited tone
pronounce the name of his nephew. Nay, he hears
more, a second time she speaks. "Tresham," she

exclaims, " let me pass on, I insist, this instant." The
start that our master gives at this inadvertent blunder
awakes the girl. She opens her eyes ; she sees her
husband gazing upon her, his dark brows ominously
knitted, an expression of dread is printed on his wan
and spirituel countenance. t

What is the matter ?" asks the little dreamer,
raising her head and scarce knowing where she is.

"What have you been dreaming?" inquired Sir
Charles, his dark eyes full of impassioned sorrow.

At these words an uncontrollable sigh broke from the
girl's manacled heart. She tried to smile, however.
Have I been talking in my sleep ?" she inquires, "for
I have been quite sound asleep."

Yes, child, you have been asleep, and in your sleep
you spoke distinctly, excitedly. You spoke of my
nephew. You appeared to be speaking to him. You
bade him let you pass instantly."

Well, I did dream that I met him, and it seemed
to me that he had been drinking too much, and he
would not let me pass."

That is a state in which you are but too likely to
meet him, if, indeed, you should ever be so unfortunate
as to have another encounter. I hear, or rather information
has reached me from several quarters lately,
that occasionally, for a whole week together, day after
day, he will be scarcely himself."

Tresham has many kind friends, it seems, amongst
your correspondents. Tell me who amongst them is
the greatest slanderer ; who is it seeks most to widen
the gulf betwixt you ?"

That privilege may possibly be reserved for yourself,
Helene. When I hear my nephew's name murmured
in your sleep, when I hear such exclamation as followed,
must not suspicion awaken ? Unhappily, I know but
too well his unscrupulous nature. Would he not blast
1 my happiness, would he not ruin you if he could ?"

And is it possible that you can attach so much
importance to a mere dream ?" asks Helene.

Do we not ordinarily dream of that that is most
present to us in our waking hours ?"

Come," cries the girl, affecting a playfulness she did
not feel, " come, I will not have my journey spoiled by
such a lecture. My headache is better, but how shall
I cure you of these fantasies of the brain ?"

By curing yourself of these vagaries of the heart,
my love. I had hoped that they were extinct."

Is there any wisdom," asks Helene, " in making a
mountain of a molehill ? Will it be any satisfaction
to you to hear me say it ? Listen then. I solemnly
assure you I desire never to meet Tresham more. See,
there," continues the Gipsy, " there is a milestone, one
mile from Legate. That is the place we change horses
at. I must put my bonnet on and set myself in order,
ready. You told me yesterday that Legate is a great
busy town. You are kind now, aren't you, dear?" pursues
the girl, putting her arms around her still pouting
Saint, and pressing her rosy lips against his forehead.
Then taking a little ivory workbox in her hands, and
opening it, she sets it up on the seat opposite to her,
kneels down like a very child on the carriage mat, and
arranges her hair, puts on her bonnet by the looking-glass
in the lid of the box.

The happy or the wearisome idleness that characterises
sea-side life disposes people so circumstanced to take
an interest in trifles. A new family arriving at the
next-door house, a new set of people on the Parade, an
equipage of pretension unseen before driving up and
down the approved route by the sea, furnishes food for
remark. Hence, when our britzska, with its lour steaming
post-horses and its two blue-jacketed boys, draws
up before the house in Breeds Place, two young people
and a portly dame of middle age are peeping from the
balcony of next door, to see alight from it those whom
destiny had decreed should be erewhile their neighbours.


Sir Charles, tired with travelling, stooping a little,
looking very delicate, steps out of the carriage first,
then waits until his little Gipsy, clasping Pug, descends.

It is a very windy day, and a windy day at the seaside
disarranges everything. Helene's bonnet, of very
light open-work straw, just as she emerges from the
britzska's hood, is so unceremoniously assailed by rude
Boreas, that to keep it from flying back she must needs
put her hand to its brim, while in the other hand, as

we have already mentioned, or rather under the arm of
the other hand, she has Pug. 

St. Amour stands on one side the carriage step
offering his services Hannah, Hannah, who had been
in the dickey with the valet, and who had been holding
her bonnet on for miles, Hannah descended from her
elevation, but holding her bonnet on still, nevertheless,
and also offers to take Pug. But the little wife, agile
as a fawn, bounds gracefully down the carriage-steps
on to the door-step, and enters the house intact. And
it was not only the girl's bonnet that had been disarranged
by the gale, her dress, her muslin-dress had
received as rude a greeting.

One of the young people watching from the next
door balcony, a youth of the ruder sex, watching the
arrival, cries out to the other young person by him,
who is of the softer sex, " What a display ! why, the
little gal ought to pay the god of the winds something
handsome for giving her such an introduction to a
sellar. Bravo ! excellent !"

Geoff," cries the young female peeper in a whisper,
" pray don't talk so loud ; you '11 be overheard.
Pray have a care. I am almost certain, that is, I
really believe  "

"What?" asks Geoff, interrupting his companion,
because I seem  "

"What do you seem?" cries the other. " Have you
an idea that you ever saw her before ?"

It strikes me yes, somewhere."

The girl who went with Sel and me to the play,"
suggests Geoff's companion.

"Ah, how strange ! and what a nuisance if it is !"

Why?" asks Geoff's sister.

Why ? Because I should have liked to have been
her next-door neighbour, and I'm off first thing tomorrow."


But Sir Charles and his lady, Hannah, the valet
even, has disappeared. The carriage with its four
weary posters is on the move, and Geoff and his sister
forsake the balcony for the drawing-room. The middle-aged
and portly dame (an invalid) had been driven
within-doors before by the unruly state of the weather.

Aunt," cries Geoff as he sets his foot in the ,
" who 's taken the house next door?" But
aunt is seized with a fit of coughing and cannot answer,
and Geoff's sister, first sympathising with aunt, presently
informs her brother that they did hear that Sir Charles
and Lady Daubigny had taken it; that they were a
newly-married couple.

"He that little gal's husband?" cries Geoff. "Ha,
ha ! that poor little delicate shred of a man. Just
imagine such a thing ! "

But while Geoff is expressing his amusement, the
drawing-room door opens and a man-servant announces
that " dinner is ready." Geoff is quite ready for it. His
sister also has an appetite ; nay, even aunt, though supposed
to be consumptive, can eat, and in the interest of
dining, for the time, the next-door people are laid aside.

And presently Helene and Sir Charles sit down to
dinner also, and after dinner our poor master seems
completely knocked up by his journey, so much so
that the little wife, though she is longing to run down

on the beach just for a minute with Pug, longing to be
buffeted by the fresh sea-breeze, longing to look at the
great rolling crested waves, dare not. No, she feels
that she must not leave her husband, lest the suspicions
of the morning be reawakened in his mind. She is
very dutiful, very tender, represses her childlike inclination
for the beach, gives Pug to St. Amour for a
run, and patiently sits by Sir Charles whilst he reclines
on the sofa. He has a little nap, and she cannot help
thinking as she gazes on his spirituel and interesting
countenance how angry, how astounded she should be
were he in his sleep to murmur forth the name of some
woman whom she had reason to suspect he loved better
than herself. " Were it even the name of poor mamma,"
muses our little Gipsy, " I believe I should be angry."
So when he wakes she is kind without effort, and she
makes his tea so well, and she tells him how much she
likes the house (though in truth she scarce had seen
it), and he goes to bed reassured and rests in peace,
and the little wife, thoroughly tired, sleeps the sweet
healthy sleep of girlhood, and wakes in the morning
fresh and lovely as an opening rosebud.

Our master loves to hear her pretty voice as she
runs to take a peep out of her bedroom window next
morning ere she is dressed, reporting that " the wind
has gone, the sea is calm, the day will be lovely."

Extract from a letter which arrived at the house in
Breeds Place next door to that taken by Sir Charles,
three mornings after our master and the little wife
had become temporary residents at Hastings : 

We were not wrong, we had seen the pretty little
brown gal next door somewhere before. I asked
Selina if she knew who it was Sir Charles Daubigny
had lately married. ' Oh, don't you know ? Why, the
very dubious young person I chaperoned to the play
answers Sel with a meaning smile. Then cried I,
Carry and I for once in our lives were right,' we had
seen Lady Daubigny before. I then related to her how
we witnessed the arrival, how I was struck as well as
our aunt by the extraordinary difference in age.

"Presently Holroyd joins in the conversation; he
explains who she was, and who was the sellar that so
unceremoniously walked in to us at the play. Our wide-awake
brother-in-law finishes up by begging me, by
requesting his wife to be extremely cautious.

"you must try to get over your little prejudice,'
says the sly old fox to Sel ; ' Sir Charles Daubigny is
the best client I have. Moreover, he is as worthy a
man as ever lived, and I feel quite confident had there
been the slightest flaw in Miss Graham's character he
never would have married her.'

' I do not mean to say anything,' answers Selina,
but my impression, my belief can never be altered ;
it must remain the same. That there was some secret
intelligence between Sir Charles Daubigny's nephew
and that young person I chaperoned to the play I never
can doubt. Geoff, didn't you see it all as well as I ?
Aren't you a witness that I did not only imagine V

' I can only say,' answered I, ' that I would have
given something to have been that night in that sellar's
shoes. The heaving bosom, the blushing cheek  '

' That '11 do, Geoff,' cries out our prudish Sel.

' Now, Carry, listen and attend : what says brother
Geoff is this. You 've got nothing else to do. You watch
the pretty little gal next door, look out and see how your
neighbour comports herself, and if there 's any mischief
in the wind write and let me into the secret. By Jove,
I think I could be tempted to put up with the obscurity,
the twilight even, of Breeds Place with a prospect
before me of doing a little business in the way of
flirtation there! "

The fast young girl who reads my story  alas ! where
is there a slow one to be found in these days of
rapidity?  the fast young girl, I say, who reads my story
will not have forgotten Carry, the lively Carry, nor
the scene at the play between the hapless Helene and
young Daubigny.

How strangely truth pursues us ! Here at Hastings
Helene might well have supposed that she could live
unobserved, and that nothing would be known concerning
her past history. And here, next door to her, is one
who witnessed that scene at the play, and one who hasa
pair of idle eyes bidden to watch her in the future.

The portly dame we have described as looking from
the balcony on the arrival of our travellers is Lady St.
Donats. She has been ordered by her physician to
Hastings for the autumn and winter months. Her
lungs and her throat are in a bad state. Quiet, perfect
quiet and great care, the doctor says are essential :
dissipation, late hours, low dresses, must be altogether
discarded. Lady St. Donats, then, is doomed to retirement.
She has two daughters ; they are, however, both

married, and married advantageously. Each has a
wealthy husband, a good establishment, and each alike
loves the world as mamma has taught them to love
it. They would hate to be shut up in Breeds Place all
the autumn and winter, so they apply to their cousin
Mrs. Holroyd to know whether a sister of hers will
undertake the office of companion to their sick mother.
Full well they know what a weary life these sisters
lead at the Welsh rectory. And Mrs. Holroyd after a
little delay writes back that Carry will be glad to come.
Then Mrs. Holroyd writes to the giddy Carry, and
warns her that she will have to lay aside her thoughtlessness,
and Carry returns for answer that she will be
quite like an old maid, that she will remember everything
and be very attentive.

Brother Geoff, from whose letter we have made an
extract, is very fond of getting leave. He has been
stationed near a certain refractory town in Ireland.
The dragoon regiment to which he pertains had been
called upon more than once to intimidate the potato -
eaters. He is glad to get a few weeks' leave, glad to
leave the bludgeons, the long tail-coats behind him.

And now he is in England again, he is as busy as a
bee, as merry as a cricket, staying first with one rich
cousin then with another. One of these fair and well-married
cousins had been making use of the idle Geoff,
had been despatching him to his father's Welsh rectory
to bring thence the lively Carry. On his return
journey he had deposited Carry for one night at Mrs.
Holroyd's, next morning had run down with his
sister to Hastings.

In her inmost soul Helene could never perfectly
reconcile herself to the fact that Charles Daubigny washer
lover. Long had nature absolutely recoiled from
him in this novel character. But when our master had
fallen ill at Brierly, her tenderness had been so wrought
upon, so quickened, so augmented, that she had resolved,
if ever again the opportunity offered, her conduct should
be such as to give him perfect satisfaction.

We have seen how playfully, how rapidly she had
put to flight a part of the resolution which during his
illness he had formed,  a resolution springing from
bitter disappointment.

Perhaps if he had never come to such a resolution,
if he had never as it were acted upon it, he had never
conquered.

But he had left her, he had taken to his bachelor
apartment, and now the girl, with all the fickleness
peculiar to her sex, would fain win him back. But to
win him wholly back was no easy matter. His soul
had been too deeply wounded, his natural distrust of
his own attractiveness had been rekindled ; moreover,
the jealous fears our little Gipsy had awakened in her
husband's mind could not easily be laid to rest.

However, no better judge, no keener spy, no subtler
spirit than Monsieur St. Amour, and we give a portion
of a letter despatched by him to Tresham Daubigny
from Breeds Place : 

Sir Charle n'est plus Hermit, reclus. Mi Ladi et
mon maitre sont devenu des amans veritable. II n'y a
pas lieu dien douter. C'est une chose accompli. A
quelle heure, en quelle mode fut accompli ce reunion-la

je 1' ignore retirement. Mais eVidentment toute va
bien ; ils vivent ensemble en parfaite intelligence.
Mon maitre est passion amoureux et mi Lacli submits
doucement.

Pardon, mon tres-honore jeune maitre. Pardon my
liberty. Mais je vous entends dire. ' Tout ceci
n'augure rien de boo.' Souvenez-vous que ce qui est
differ n'est pas perdu. Les flammes de labour ne
braleront pas pour long temps, Les jeunes meme elles
s'epuisent  les vieux et les foibles elles s'apportent plus
rapidement a la mort. Je vous conjure soumettez vous
a la raison. Ne decried vous compter pour quelquechose
en votre faveur ces flammes amon reuse ? Je lui
en donner un seul, un petit an, et puis."

LETTER FROM CARRY TO HER BROTHER GEOFF.

My dearest Geoff,  What could be more provoking?
Never a bit of mischief have I been able to report
to you till I expect it is too late. Your leave, I
feel certain, must expire in a day or two. I wanted
you so much just to enliven me, and could not with all
my watching detect a single flaw in mi Ladi. She
seemed to have assumed with her title the correctness
of a prude. However, as you will presently discover,
this prudery is all on the surface, merely put on ; for
absolutely turns up another young sellar with whom
she has had what Sel calls " private intelligence." I '11
tell you how it was.

I was sitting in the drawing-room looking drearily
out of the window, when I noticed a slim-made, plain-faced,
but delicate and rather distingu4-lookmg personage

walking very slowly past the house. I noticed
that he turned back and looked up at the Daubignys'
windows. Again he lounged by, still eyeing their
house, and suddenly I heard her Ladyship's voice. She
must just at this moment have skipped with her
Pug in her arms into the balcony. I saw her, I heard
her exclaim, " Lord Brailsford !" The lackadaisical
lounger hereupon came to a stand still. Lifting his
hat and gazing upwards he answers, " You are surprised
perhaps at seeing me. But I had a fancy just now
for a little sea air. I am at the Victoria Hotel, St.
Leonard."

"Have you been there any time?" inquired our
neighbour.

No, only a day. May I call upon you ?"

Sir Charles, I am sure, will be most happy to renew
his acquaintance ; he will be very happy to see you."

What does your answer imply ? Is it only Sir
Charles who will welcome me ?"

"0 no ; I shall be very glad too. Will you come
up to me now ?"

Yes. Shall I knock or ring, or what ?"

"The hall door is always left ajar, push it open.
Come in, no one will interrupt you. If any of the
servants are there they know you, or will, if you give
your name."

The pale, affected-looking, boy-like creature immediately
acted on her Ladyship's suggestion. It seemed
but an instant ere he was beside her in the balcony,
your tendering such a soft but impressive greeting.

One thing," cries she, " I must say you are a poet,

VOL. III. B

and all poets are absent and dreamy. Will you not
forget yourself, and speak before my husband of the
piece of folly I perpetrated ? Do you remember my
injunctions ? all that I said about it that Sunday at
Brierly ? Perhaps you have forgotten ?"

"Forgotten, Lady Daubigny I" he murmured, "forgotten
! no, indeed. I believe that every word you
spoke to me on that Sunday is present ; nay, every
word that you ever spoke to me is graven on my
memory. Can you imagine me insensible ? Words
that fall from lips so perfect, the voice that utters them
so musical !"

That will do," answers the pretended prude, " that
will do ; if you value my friendship, if we are to be good
neighbours, never natter me."

"Neighbours!" retorted the young Lord, "neighbours
! You seem determined, Lady Daubigny, that we
shall not be neighbours. Have you not flown from
Brierly ?"

Ah ! oui, a present. Mais le futur. Ne vendra pas
le futur ? Do you think Sir Charles will always be
away from Brierly ?"

"What is the future?" murmurs the lackadaisical
creature, " what but a mist, a cloud ! To-day, the
present, is the only time we are sure of. When, Lady
Daubigny, do you think of returning home ?"

Oh, I really do not exactly know. I have been
doing my utmost to persuade Sir Charles to take this
house for another month. Nay, I believe he has
agreed."

You are very amiable certainly. Do you not know ?

But how should you remember anything in relation to
such an insignificant person as myself ? Of course you
forget my very existence."

These words were spoken in a tone of offended
dignity. There was an exceeding hauteur in the
manner of the speaker.

Indeed I do not," answers her Ladyship ; " it gives
me great pleasure to see you."

Can I believe this when you choose to be away
from Brierly precisely at a time when common civility
to our family would have induced you to be there ?"

Je suis tout en nuage. How have I offended ?"

Oh ! I will not intrude my affairs. Will you be so
good as to tell Sir Charles that I called ?"

Surely you are not going without seeing Sir
Charles?"

Yes."

No, but you must not indeed. I forbid it," cries
the girl playfully. " Now tell me what it is that vexes
you, and if I can I will remedy my fault. Whatever I
have done has been inadvertent."

"Inadvertent, certainly. What can my birthday
signify to your Ladyship ?"

Your jour de fate ? I never knew on what day it
falls."

Has not Sir Charles, has no one ever mentioned
to you that on the 14th of next month I shall be twenty-one
?"

No, indeed."

According to the custom of the world," pursued the
evidently offended lordling, " according to the custom

of the world there should, on the occasion, be some
manifestation at my father's house and on his estate,
some, shall I call it affectation of rejoicing? My mother
wants to have a fancy ball. She asked if I would
heartily participate in it. I demurred. Lady Daubigny,
may I inquire if such a thing as a fancy ball has any
interest for you ?"

Interest for me ! Am I desired as a guest ? Does
your mother intend asking me ? "

Of course my mother will ask. The question is, will
you say yes ? Will you be there ?"

Oh, do you know I should delight in it ? But how
could I manage to leave this place just when I have
been persuading Sir Charles to stay for the sake of his
health ? How could I persuade him to return to Brierly
merely for my own selfish gratification ?"

But is it impossible that you should visit Brierly
for a week and return hither afterwards ?"

I really dare not myself make such a proposition,
he would think me so selfish, so frivolous. When he
comes in you make the request. Oh ! how delighted I
should be ! I have never even seen a large ball."

Am I to believe this ? Surely you dance ? Nature
unaided cannot have given such perfect grace."

Please let us dispense with compliments. I did
not mean to say that I do not understand dancing. I
have been well educated in dancing from my baby days.
But you know, or perhaps you do not know, that since
I have been grown up I have lived in the wilds. You
who know the world, do you not find me rustic, bizarre,
a little zingaree ?"

You whom nature has so exquisitely endowed, do
you not find me a very strange fellow ? My mother is
constantly telling me of my eccentricity."

Then I shall feel more at home with you. Perhaps
we are something alike. I am so glad."

Glad that I am silent when I ought to speak ; glad
that when I do speak, I do not say the proper thing ;
glad that I cannot tell polite lies."

Yes ; if you had been a creature perfectly fitted for
the world, I should have had a fear, a shrinking, a
dread of your sarcasm."

Impossible, Lady Daubigny."

I tell you I speak the very truth. But see, here
comes Sir Charles ! I can see him on the beach.
Remember, if you give him the slightest hint of the folly
I perpetrated on my wedding day, he will never let me
come to the ball. How I ever came to do it I cannot
imagine. But I was angry on my wedding day. I felt
like a wild colt of the forest tied up in a stall ; like a
robin of the woods caught and caged."

Ha !" exclaimed the listening lordling, " ha ! you
felt mischievous."

His manner of speaking was full of playful satisfaction.


Sir Charles was now crossing the road, and whatever
might have followed was lost to me, for the innocent
prude and bird the second that she has snared, nay,
including poor Sir Charles bird the third, together left
the balcony and entered the drawing-room.

"Do you think it would be wicked to have a new
dress for this ball ? "

When Helene murmured forth this question, she
was in a state of sweet and childlike repose. She
half reclined upon a sofa, her husband's arm supported
her, and her rounded cheek rested on his bosom.

It was evening, the evening of an October day, and
in that twilight house darkness had fallen early. The
Breeds Place drawing-room was lit up plenteously
with waxen lights, a fire burned on the hearth. There
could be no picture drawn of greater domestic peace
and comfort.

As the girl murmured forth her question, she slightly
raised her head that she might consult the countenance
of her mentor.

How could I think it wicked, my dear child ?"

Just so soon after papa has given me so many and
such lovely dresses, that is why. But this ball is a
peculiar one. People may come in fancy dresses, and
I have a fancy to look just like a girl on my Watteau
fan."

I hope, my dear child, that the figure has a perfectly
discreet, unobjectionable dress. Eemember, it

will be your first appearance at the Bedingfields'. I
should not like to see you in a dress too remarkable."

It is not remarkable at all except for its prettiness.
I will fetch the fan after dinner and show you."

You possess one dress which, with a little modification,
could not be more becoming."

"That gold - coloured one you scolded me for
wearing?"

That very dress. It fitted you perfectly ; it
suited you. It cannot have been spoiled with an hour
or two's use."

Oh ! it is quite new ; but I am scarcely satisfied
with it for a ball. Is it not too heavy ?"

Of that I am of course no judge ; the only objection
I saw to it was its audacious lowness in the body,
but some muslin or some lace added  "

Well, of course, but I think I should like to have
the other dress, mentioning to Madame Celeste that
it is for a ball, and then I could go in which I liked."

You have another dress, Helene ; that which you
wore on your wedding morning."

I should not like to go in that," said the girl. " It
would seem ridiculous, as if I wished to parade myself
in the character of a bride. No, if it is not wicked I
will have a dress something like that I love so on my
fan. But how can I get my fan up to Madame's
place ? If I sent it by the coach it might get hurt or
lost. I would not have my dear, darling fan hurt or
lost for the world."

Sir Charles had given this bijou of a fan. He was
pleased to find that the girl so valued it. " St. Amour

shall go up with it," lie answers, " if you are so very
desirous of this dress."

I say if it is not wicked," pathetically pleads the
girl, for her voice betrays the urgency of her desire.

My dear child, I believe it is the first thing that
you have asked for since our marriage."

I have no idea of asking for things I do not really
require."

I am very glad, very thankful to find you have this
good disposition. Some foolish girls, circumstanced
as you are, Helene, had coveted, nay, had acquired by
this time a hundred expensive trifles. We have been
living very quietly, very modestly here. I have been
surprised at Eliza's moderate weekly expenditure, and
I have in my mind a little scheme of charity on which
to bestow my savings. I shall consider it as a little
memorial of the happiness you, my child, have permitted
me to realise. Helene," added Sir Charles
with deep, sweet tenderness in his voice, " Helene, these
few last weeks have been the happiest in my life's experience."


The girl, on hearing of her husband's satisfaction,
strangely enough only answered by a sigh. Yet she
nestled more closely down, and he thought her at
rest ; he thought her, perhaps, happy as himself. But,
alas ! his words had awakened for a moment the slumbering
serpent that lurked, ever lurked ; she felt its
sting.

The memory of Tresham came athwart her young
heart. The knowledge of her own duplicity, the
remembrance of the weary work it had been to her to

simulate a passion she could not feel, almost caused
the tears that dimmed her eyes to gush forth as nature
bade them.

But she was thankful, nevertheless, thankful to find
that a being she loved with such sincerity had found
the happiness he coveted.

It will be seen from the foregoing conversation we
have recorded, that Charles Daubigny had listened
favourably to Lord Brailsford's request. He had, in
fact, accepted the invitation, but not without conditions.
He told his young neighbour that he could not
bring his wife to the ball unless Lady Bedingfield had
previously-called upon her, and that there should be no
obstacle to such an arrangement, Lady Daubigny and
himself would return to Brierly a few days earlier than
that of the birthday entertainment. The young Lord
answered that he quite comprehended, and thoroughly
entered into Sir Charles's feeling ; that on his return
home, which would be at the end of the week, or
perhaps before, he would speak to his mother, and he
could answer for her readiness ; and he was sure she
would honour Sir Charles the more for his scrupulous
delicacy of feeling.

We have only further to state, that even before Lord
Brailsford returned home he could give the required
assurance. On quitting Breeds Place he had immediately
written to his mother ; he had said that he was
satisfied she should give the ball on his birthday, and
how accidentally he had run against their neighbours
the Daubignys, and that it depended on herself
whether they would be present. To make a call on

the new-married lady previously Sir Charles felt would
be the proper thing, nay, indispensable. To this statement
Lady Bedingfield had replied most graciously.
She sent a message through her son to the baronet,
which quite allayed his sensitiveness.

Lady Bedingfield, although approaching forty, was
lively, almost young-looking, and full of vivacity,  a
vivacity tinged by mischief. As she had promised,
she came to call on her new neighbour, and surprised
Helene by her ease of manner, her condescension, her
instantaneous familiarity. Before she left Brierly she
had expressed a desire to know if the girl intended
assuming a character on the night of the ball, and
what sort of dress she would appear in. At length
she volunteered to go up-stairs and inspect the two
dresses between which Helene herself was so divided.
Lady Bedingfield brought the matter to a decision infinitely
amusing and gratifying to our naughty little
Gipsy.

My dear," she said (for already Helene was ' my
dear '), " my dear, you shall appear in each of these
dresses."

But Sir Charles a little disapproves of the Watteau
dress."

Oh ! we can manage so dexterously that my excellent
neighbour will know nothing about it. My
brother the Dean is a friend of your husband's. They
both play whist. There will be a room set apart for
cards. I will settle them down nicely, and come and
give you a hint that now is your time."

But how could I change my dress, even if it were
right?"

Oh, my dear, your maid and your dress must both
be awaiting you in a little dressing-room I can easily
spare."

"But ought I to do this?" asked the girl; "and
can I?"

"You ought and you can. A thousand pities the
Watteau dress should never be seen, and a little
black mask perhaps, and no one will guess you are
yourself."

But if I do this," murmurs Helene, " some one must
take care of me, and some one must escort me back
into the room. I am a coward, une novice."

Oh, my dear, you need have no apprehension. I
will myself re-introduce you to the ball-room, and my
son will have the greatest pleasure in waiting on your
Ladyship."

As Lady Bedingfield uttered the last few words she
looked full of animation and mischief. " I assure you,"
she continued, " you are the first of the female creation
who has ever possessed any charm for my son. Do
not discourage him, my dear, by any affectation of
prudish nonsense. He is far too noble-minded to bring
any scandal upon you."

yes," answered Helene, blushing, "I never thought
it possible. If I may presume to say so, I have a
friendship for Lord Brailsford. Is it presumptuous
when he is so clever ? "

Lady Bedingfield gazed on the girl with a scrutinising
gaze ; the result of her scrutiny was that she did believe

that the girl's friendship for her son was of an innocent
character. She had taken a fancy to Helene.

The Countess, an acute observer, had discovered her
son's tenderness for the girl, and whatever conduced to
his happiness must be interesting to herself. She knew
his reserved, his fastidious, his sensitive nature too
well to show to him that she had discovered his
infatuation; but, unscrupulous herself, she inwardly
resolved that if possible he should unhindered indulge
this his first passion.

Lady Bedingfield had a peculiar reason for sympathising
with her son. In her own girlhood she had
been compelled or induced to subdue, to suppress her
first, her virgin passion, thereby blasting the life, the
happiness of the man she really loved. She had given
her hand to Lord Bedingfield when another possessed
her affections, and with all her levity she could feel
sincerely for her Stephen's present misfortune.

Few need be the sentences in which we record the
inner life of Lucy, Lady Bedingfield, but our story
requires such a key, otherwise it would seem involved
in mystery.

Lucy was one of a large family. Her parents, of
lofty lineage, but in straitened circumstances, led but a
life of sorrow and unceasing mortification. They were
obliged to appear to be what they were not,  to bemean
or careful when their generous natures would
have prompted them to be generous or even lavish.
Lucy, through the whole of her childhood, had had a
sad experience of poverty and pride. But with all this
experience she fell in love at sixteen with a cousin as

well descended and as poor as herself. Desmond de
St. Brie was at college ; he was destined for the Church.
Neither Lucy nor her lover dared breathe a word of
their mutual passion. They agreed to keep their
engagement a profound secret. But by the girl's carelessness
in mislaying a letter her entanglement was
discovered. She was peremptorily forbidden to hold
any further communication with her cousin Desmond,
and finally, when brighter prospects seemed dawning
upon her, she was commanded or persuaded into writing
to him and abjuring her engagement.

Not many months after this, young as she was, she
became the bride of Lord Bedingfield, at the time of
her marriage John Everard Leigh, heir-presumptive to
the title.

In taking this step, in listening to persuasion, Lucy
had not only brought a lifelong sorrow upon herself,
but she had, as it were, scathed and blasted the nature
of another. Desmond de St. Brie, determining never
to marry, and with a bias towards the Bomish Church,
quitted the University, and presently took orders as a
Bomish priest. As a Protestant vicar or rector, in
process of time married to his Lucy, he had probably
remained through life an undistinguished man ; but
without his Lucy, ambition his only guide, by the time
we introduce Lady Bedingfield to our reader's notice,
her ci-devant lover had become a rising star under
Papal rule.

Lucy had loved her cousin Desmond with intensity.
She loved him through all her married life. So graven
was his image on her soul, that Stephen, her first-born

child, showed tokens of her hidden passion. He resembled
the priest in many ways. The strange green
eyes that under excitement seemed to become darker,
almost dark, the same features, the same delicate hands ;
but the priest was a man more robust in form, with an
ease of manner, a fluency of speech which Stephen did
not possess.

It was not until Lady Bedingfield had passed the
first bloom of her loveliness that the Earl her husband
became aware of his wife's early and secret attachment.
Having observed that on several occasions her rustic-looking
little Lord paid particular attention to a woman
as artful as she was attractive, Lucy, who had been
accustomed to be the sole object of his devotion, in a
fit of jealous rage launched her unwelcome secret upon
him. So utterly unconscious had he been, that at first
he would not believe, and thought his playful wife had
but invented the story to provoke him. Then Lucy,
forgetful of her long-maintained reserve, laughing him
to scorn, betrayed so much of the past as to make him
jealous. Lord Bedingfield, in fact, became not a little
suspicious ; and when Lucy's fit of anger had subsided
she heartily repented having allowed her little man to
gain a knowledge that proved so inimical to her peace.

Up to this period, having been left in happy ignorance,
the Earl had never objected to the priest's
occasional visits at his house, and had been utterly
careless of his Lucy's receiving from time to time a
letter from the pious recluse. Henceforward he greeted
Lucy's cousin in so distant a manner, that, alarmed at
the change, St, Brie had retired to Italy, and finally
settled down in France.

It is indeed November, but it is one of November's
fairest days. There is a peculiar stillness, softness in
the balmy air ; the sun shines with a subdued, a sort
of hallowed splendour, its sad rays lending a deep, a
mournful beauty to the autumn-tinted scene on which
they rest.

How exquisite to the lover of nature is the richly-coloured
but fast-fleeting foliage of the giant trees that
stand in groups about the park, nor less to be delighted
in the dying fern-leaves stretching far and far away in
distance. And sauntering dreamily amid this scene of
venerable beauty, where nature owes its sweet perfection
to the care of man, is Stephen Leigh, Lord Brailsford.
But to-day the youthful poet heeds not nature's glory.
He takes no note of this old park, this goodly portion
of his future heritage. The house that stands so prominently
out before him he seems not even to see,
though 'tis a mansion any man might well be proud to
call his home. Custom has made that low-built,
rambling, picturesque old pile too familiar for it ever
to strike him as a mark of beauty in the landscape.
Ah ! now all inadvertently he stands beside the placid

lake. Its waters lie in perfect glassy stillness. The
tall bulrushes on its margin scarce retain their verdant
summer hue, and for the maple and the beech that
almost mingle with the rushes, the leaves of one are
scarlet bright, the other withered brown. The weeping
birch, the mountain ash, whose pliant branches sweep
the tide, they are but in their bare and shadowy grace,
their fallen leaves float on the surface of the stilly
lake. 'Tis only here and there a drooping stem shows
vivid green, only where fondly clings around the deep-heed
hardier ivy. And Stephen Leigh stands gazing on
this scene of nature's most entrancing loveliness. But
to him to-day it is but vacant space. His heart is
heavy laden with his first, his sinful passion. He
knows that it is wrong, but that he heeds not. He
must love her, only her, and he has decided in his wild
romance to be another Petrarch, dreaming of, devoted
only to our little Laura. The girl has married a man
old enough to be her father, and the sanguine Stephen
flatters himself that though his Laura may give her
affection, her attentions, her lawful obedience to Sir
Charles, yet, possibly, had she been free to choose, he
himself had been the husband of her choice. It is all
too late. Sir Charles, though often ailing, will certainly
live on. Invalids live the longest. And he shall live
on too, and die unmarried. Yes, he shall live on,
cherishing the wound the innocent girl so inadvertently
has dealt him. He will press the barbed arrow deeper
into his heart, but no human eye must mark his
suffering.

Such is the wild dream of tke youthful and impassioned

poet, but born romantic and unworldly,
Stephen will do no battle with imagination.

All that just now oppresses him is the dread that he
may betray his secret. He feels indeed that to keep
it through years to come will be a task of no easy
nature. But he must exercise a constant vigilance.
He knows that Sir Charles has the most delicate perception
of what is right; he knows that his soul is
endued with an excess of sensibility, that if he had the
slightest suspicion his door would be closed against his
treacherous young neighbour.

And Lord Brailsford feels that he must exercise a
like vigilance with his own people, more, perhaps, for
the girl's sake than for his own.

He wanders on. His mind is equally oppressed with
anxiety as with hope. He looks forward to the evening
of the morrow, the evening of his birthday, the
evening of the ball, with sensations various and we fear
somewhat unhallowed. He shall see the girl appear asa
guest in his father's house. How beautiful will she
be in her parure ! His heart beats quicker as imagination
paints the sun-ripe vision. He has always said
that he hates dancing ; but to dance with her, to have
one opportunity of circling her rounded waist ! If but
that she might touch him, lean against him, it were
ecstasy, it were bliss !

There could have been no two more striking pictures
of superlative vanity than might have been sketched
on the evening of the birthright ball.

Lady Bedingfield repairing or adding new lustre to
VOL. III. c

her now rather passe beauty, then dressing with so
much care and anxiety in her private apartment at the
abbey.

The Countess and her French maid spared no pains,
and they succeeded d, merveille. Lucy looked absolutely
lovely. But here was a picture in which art
mingled with nature. The second picture is one purely
natural  a picture of Helene in the great nuptial
chamber at Brierly attiring herself for the momentous
occasion. Ah, reader ! wilt thou try to behold the
good, grave Hannah, that most formal of old maids,
attiring our little Laura for Petrarch's birthright ball ?
The girl stands before the dressing-table gazing on her
own sun-ripe beauty as it appears depicted in the toilet
mirror before her.

Says Hannah, " The bodice I fear is a little tight,
Madam."

Well," answers the girl, " I think I have grown
rather fatter lately."

Hereupon the old maid, unseen by her mistress,
turns away to hide a smile, then proceeds to finish
lacing up the yellow satin bodice.

How long it takes you, Hannah ! " says Lady Daubigny.


Well, my Lady, it is very difficult to make the
whalebone at the back meet."

You must pull it to, I can't go without. What a
nuisance that I am getting so fat ! "

There, it is all right now," says Hannah.

It feels very tight," cries Helene, shaking her
shoulders uneasily, for she was quite unused to undue

pressure. " Does the dress look nice ? " continues the
girl, addressing Hannah.

Oh ! it 's beautiful, Madam. That that the dressmaker
's done has made it perfect."

And here we should mention that there had been
quite an active correspondence going on between the
renowned modiste Madame Celeste and our little Gipsy.

On hearing that the golden-coloured dress was to be
worn perhaps on the night of the ball, Madame had expressed
her horreur, and had requested to have it sent
up immediately, that at least she might lighten it. On
its arrival Helene had received another communication.
Madame could not find resolution in her heart to
destroy one of her chefs-d'oeuvre, she had therefore
decided on making a new satin skirt for the occasion,
draped over with a tissue of the airiest kind, and looped
up by garlands in a manner suited to a fancy ball.

Hence now the dress the girl had on retained
nothing of the original one save the bodice. The
petticoat or skirt matched that in colour, and was
indeed draped a merveille by the airiest gauze, caught
up in festoons by lifelike bouquets of honeysuckle
and pink roses. The dress, as Hannah had declared,
was perfect ; nor had the injunction Sir Charles had
given been forgotten. The audaciously low bodice was
modified by the required folds of gauze, a sort of
fiction, serving but to enhance the charm of the girl's
natural beauty.

As Helene joined her husband to enter the carriage,
St. Amour, who was waiting in the hall, placed with
the daintiest care a fur-lined mantle over his lady. No

one could have put it on so well, it was effected
without disparagement to a fold or a flower, and the
valet would take it off as carefully in the great hall at
Otteley Abbey.

Poor Sir Charles ! how unconscious he was as they
drove along of the mischief Lady Bedingfield had
designed, and his little Gipsy was so ready to perpetrate
! Helene had received a note from the Countess
that morning, written on delicately-tinted paper, a note
telling of the musk-scented cabinet or escritoire where
the rose-tinted paper had lain. It was also sealed with
a perfumed white waxen seal bearing the lady's coronet
and the word " Lucy." In it she reminded the girl
of their conversation, reminded her that she must
arrange to bring or send her maid with the Watteau
dress, described how her own maid would be on the
look-out in the hall ready to conduct the Brierly
damsel to the little dressing-room at the end of a certain
long gallery, a dressing-room to be set apart
specially for Helene's use, and she concluded her note
by naming the precise minute at which she hoped her
neighbours would arrive.

And Sir Charles and the little wife did arrive at the
prescribed moment. Our poor master had had quietly
at home his beloved cup of tea, so they declined entering
the refreshment-room, and were ushered straight
upstairs.

Dancing had not yet commenced, but a crowd of
people, some in fancy, some in more rational costumes,
some in dominoes and masks, had already assembled,
and at every minute others were arriving.

Lady BedingfieM stood at the door of the ball-room ;
Lord Bedingfield was not far distant. The Countess
greeted each new comer, or each fresh group of her
visitants, as they passed her, then left them to follow
their own pleasure and devices. But with Helene the
case was different. She knew that this was her first
appearance in the gay world, and she entered the ballroom
with the girl; nay, she did more, she walked
across it to where her own daughter Lady Georgina
stood, and introduced Helene to her. Georgina had
never so much as caught a glimpse of our little Gipsy
before, but she had thought of her nevertheless a great
deal. She had never forgotten "the promised token ;"
she remembered the remarkable initials prefixed to
the writing, and she could not but remark, however
much he might strive to conceal his feelings, she could
not but remark the interest her brother took in the
Daubignys. Stringing one circumstance to another, she
believed that she now saw before her the very person
whose name her brother would not reveal. Accordingly
at first she gave to Lady Daubigny but a distant
bow. A glance of disapprobation from her mother
induced her next moment to extend her hand. Yes,
she did shake hands with the presumed culprit, but
this was all.

Next moment, as though no Lady Daubigny existed,
she resumed her flirtation with Sir Buthyn Pell, a
young Irish baronet in the same regiment with Carry's
brother Geoff.

Lady Bedingfield was a little annoyed by her daughter's
coldness of manner to their new neighbour, and to

efface the ill impression it might create, she herself
moved on some paces further with her intended produce.
Lord Brailsford, dreading lest he might betray
a tithe of the passion he felt for the girl, had been only-gazing
in the distance.

How did his foolish heart flutter when his mother
beckoned him to come nearer ! What silent ecstasy
when mamma playfully demanded if he were sufficiently
awake to dance the forthcoming quadrille with Lady
Daubigny ! Before Helene had appeared in the ballroom,
on being solicited by the master of the ceremonies,
Stephen, in his absence of mind, had announced " that
he did not dance." Heedless, however, of his own so
lately made declaration, Stephen now takes his place
with Helene on his arm ready for the forthcoming
quadrille. Despite all effort at self-control, the lips,
the eyes of the master of the ceremonies testify his
amusement at this sudden change of mood in the hero
of the night ; and many a fair girl is also scrutinising
Lord Brailsford and the partner with whom he has
chosen to open the ball.

Brought thus prominently forward, Helene is criticised
by the younger swells lounging about no less
than by their sisters, but in a very different spirit.
The girls, envious of the distinction the young Lord has
conferred upon Helene, can see no fascination in Lady
Daubigny. The men, on the contrary, can see a great
deal. They ask of each other how and where Sir
Charles has picked up so piquante a morsel ? Who was
she ? How is it she dances with so perfect a grace ?

One pompous and aristocratic old parson who has

daughters to dispose of, at the instigation of his inquisitive
and silly wife, ventures to make some inquiries
of Lord Bedingfield respecting the young wife of his
nearest neighbour.

I think I have mentioned before that our rustic Earl
had never moved on with the fashion, that of a morning
he wore top-boots and kerseymere breeches. His evening
attire (that he appears in now) is also of the same
date that he had worn in his youth,  black silk knee-breeches,
stockings to match, shoes with small buckles,
a blue coat, a white waistcoat, a vast cambric shirt-frill
lying across his bosom, a roll of white muslin cravat
round his throat, so voluminous, so arranged that his
little fat dimpled chin is half-buried in it.

Whether he vouchsafed to say more in answer to
the pompous old parson his neighbour we know not.
Some of his words might possibly have been lost in the
folds of his cravat, but all that actually reached the
Eeverend Sir Mounteney Skeffington was as follows :
Another time  explain  Graham  Lady Daubigny's
father  man claiming a Scotch peerage  see it yourself,
you will, Sir Mounteney, presently  evidence  before
the House."

The Eeverend Sir Mounteney manages ere long to
thread his way through the glittering crowd, and places
himself before the sofa on which his inquisitive and
expectant wife is sitting. He gives her the scanty
tidings he has gathered. " Graham," she repeats in a
half-whisper, as Sir Mounteney contrives to bend his
usually erect and soaring head a little that he may the
better catch his lady's words, " Graham, and claiming a

title, too. dear ! some beggarly Scotchman, no doubt,
who has palmed himself off on poor Sir Charles as a
person of family and pretension."

In her own peculiar playful manner, Lady Springfield
had given out that her entertainment was to be a
fancy ball and birthright revel. Masks and dominoes
were to be allowed, fancy dresses without masks, plain
dresses and no disguise for those who preferred it. Ah !
we seem to see it even now. That birthright ball
presented to the idler looking on at once a gay, a glittering,
a picturesque, an impressive scene. We use the
word impressive in reference to the character of the
building in which the glittering crowd was assembled.

Otteley Abbey, as its name imports, before the Reformation
had been a religious house, and the dance tonight
comes off in an apartment long held sacred, then
as long neglected, till it had become almost ruinous. A
wealthy and eccentric Lord Bedingfield, some sixty years
before, had reopened, had endeavoured to restore, had
left it in its present state of splendour. For what purpose
this noble apartment originally had been designed,
to what use in monastic times it had been put, cannot
now be traced. Antiquaries have differed strangely.
Leaving them at their leisure to discuss, to determine,
we continue our story. We need only say that vast
was the room in length, lofty in proportion, with a
ceiling highly decorated and forming a series of pointed
arches. At night, ere the holy brotherhood had been
expelled, the room had been lighted by octagon-shaped
lanterns suspended by chains, a lantern to each

pointed arch. From these now fell upon the moving
crowd below a soft, a hallowed light. But on such an
occasion a more brilliant light was required, and, in
order to supply this, gilded branches had at intervals
been affixed to the walls, charged with tall waxen
tapers.

A ball and a birthright revel our audacious Countess
had christened her party. Surely this imported other
entertainment besides mere dancing. And in truth
there were going on during the evening diversions of
various kinds, but only one of these we shall particularise.
The Lady Georgina, though destiny had decreed
she could not be the hero of the night, determined not
on such an occasion to be overlooked. She would make
manifest her talent and her taste. Semina had naturally
a fine voice, an excellent ear for music ; she had
given much time and study to both vocal and instrumental
harmony. But besides possessing a natural
talent, an inherent passion for music, she had lately
been beset by another passion  a passion for acting.
Already the girl had twice performed most creditably
in amateur theatricals, and urgently had she besought
of her mother to be allowed to get up a play to be acted
on her brother's birthright.

But the Earl would not hear of it; he altogether
disapproved of the project. It would interfere with
the dancing. A few of his daughter's pet friends and
acquaintances only would be able to witness the performance,
for the one room that could be spared and
transformed into a theatre had not accommodation for
more than a quarter of the invited guests. Moreover,

Lord Bedingfield disapproved of his daughter's passion
for acting.

Georgina could not carry her point. But though
defeated in the main, she would not wholly yield. She
foresaw that she could have, and resolved to have, some
minor entertainment, something of the same character.
The girl had a genius for producing picturesque effect.
She felt certain something could be got up which,
without interfering too much with the programme of
the ball, should yet be very striking to the assembled
company.

The Earl her father, although so given to cattle-breeding,
considered it a duty attaching to his station
to patronise art and artists. He was fond of patronising
rising young painters, and not unfrequently became
the purchaser of a modern picture which had struck
him as interesting.

LordBedingfleld's taste and inclination didn't lead him
to select very severe, very moral subjects ; nay, he erred
rather the other way, as the picture-gallery at Otteley
could testify. Though such a thorough sportsman, though
so addicted to agricultural pursuits, yet when a boy at
Eton, when a youth at Oxford, his head had been well
crammed with classical lore, and his favourite subjects
were of remote Pagan origin. He had lately added to
his collection one fine picture of this class in which the
figures were life size. There was nothing indelicate
visibly on the canvas, nothing indelicate in the attire of
the lovely nymph who, crowned with roses, walked,
surrounded by her attendants, daintily along. The
indelicacy was in the history. The picture had been

described in the Exhibition Catalogue as " Phryne on
her way to the Bath."

The Lady Georgina was a very accomplished musician,
but her head had never been crammed with classical
knowledge ; nay, she had never so much as looked into
Lempriere's Classical Dictionary. She had, indeed, not
the most distant idea of Phryne's characteristics or
avocation. She saw before her a beautiful picture of
an effective procession. She saw on either side a line
of spectators watching the procession as it passed along,
and it occurred to her that, in the long ball-room, there
would be just that glittering crowd on either side to
give effect to what she herself could get up and take a
part in.

Accordingly, with the help of her two most intimate
friends, Lady Millicent Doyle and Eleanor Kennington,
Lady Georgina set to work. How delightful to young
girls without a care on their minds is such exciting
pastime ! Grecian garments must be invented, facsimiles
of those in the picture. There were seven good-looking
nymphs to be clothed, but only one lovely
Phryne. And who should personate the lovely
Phryne ? Georgina's two flattering friends declared
that she herself must enact the part ; she was most
suited to it. Lady Millicent had a Roman nose ; Nelly's
nose was small and rctroussL They each, too, had the
wrong coloured hair, and at length Georgina consented.
To her the mere spectacle would be nothing without
the addition of music and singing, and now the musical
friends rack their brains to recall some joyous-sounding
Italian song with a chorus. Ah ! they have hit on the

very thing, and how assiduously did Phryne and her
nymphs practise their various parts ! Phryne, the
finest vocalist of the set, must sing the solo parts, the
others will but join in the chorus.

The Ladies Georgina and Millicent once set going, there
was no limit to their theatrical ardour. What a pity
that only one striking scene should be enacted ! After
considering a while, they resolved to get up two exhibitions.
The second must be of quite a contrary character.
Georgina, when one year wintering abroad, had
been in the habit of attending various services in the
chapel of a nunnery. She had been much struck by a
procession of the holy sisterhood when attending a
novice on her way to the chapel where she was about
to make her vows and renounce the world. The scene
had struck her as touching and picturesque ; but if
her eye had then been regaled, her ear had been far
more so. The music-loving girl had been absolutely
fascinated by the dirge-like chant which the holy
sisters had breathed forth as sadly they glided onward.

Lady Bedingfleld had had years of acquaintance with
the priest who at this time officiated in the chapel of
the nunnery. He frequently visited the Countess and
her daughter at their hotel, and by his favour the Lady
Georgina obtained an introduction to the abbess of the
order, who graciously allowed the young enthusiast to
have a copy of the chant, and a set of vestments such
as the holy sisters wore.

Impressed on the girl's mind as it had been, seeing
the mournful reality in her imagination so vividly even
yet, the Lady Georgina felt certain that, having the

chant in her possession and the dress of a nun, the
picturesque scene, the entrancing chant might serve
her now. Yes, it was decided this should be the
second subject which the little band of fair friends
would enact.

We should remark, before we quit the subject, that,
as far as could be, their work was done in secrecy.
True, they were obliged to employ their maids' fingers
and a dozen sempstress of inferior degree. They were
obliged to have recourse to the superior talent of a
renowned modiste. But what the little band of friends
were really about, no one at Otteley inquired. The
rambling old abbey was so vast, there were portions of
it so detached from the main building, that anything
might well go on unobserved.

Several quadrilles have been danced. One has just
terminated, so lately that some of the recent dancers
remain as partners yet, and are promenading the length
of the vast ball-room. Suddenly a strain of music
steals into the apartment. It is not dance music. By
degrees it takes the attention of the assembled crowd.
At every succeeding minute the harmony grows more
distinct. Two footmen enter, begging with many
bows that a space may be left clear in the middle of
the room, from end to end, as a little procession is
about to pass that way. Scarce have these gorgeous
liveried gentlemen made their obsequious bows and
requests, when the threatened procession appears.

The Earl's latest-purchased picture is represented
marvellously  to the letter. The beautiful Phryne
walks first. Her dress is a masterpiece of Grecian
elegance, and suits the wearer admirably. Never had
Georgina Leigh shone to such advantage as now, in this
classic costume. Georgina has exquisitely beautiful
arms. They are displayed to the utmost, for the dress
has but a gold ornament for a sleeve. Her hair, simply
braided, is coiled around her prettily-shaped head ; but
two long tresses are left flowing, while a crown of

roses sits lightly 'mid the braids above. Georgina's
attendant nymphs are attractive enough ; but Georgina,
as Phryne, walking first with daintiest step, clad as
might befit a Queen, she is the point of attraction.
Then the song that breaks from Phryne's rosy lips is
indeed fraught with a magic charm ; it tells of youth,
of love, of joy, of gladness, and her maidens tender
their aid how sweetly in the chorus that is repeated
again and again. The gay and glittering crowd in the
ball-room listens, gazes in delight, in gratification.
There are but two amid that brilliant throng who are
agitated by contrary, by cruel feeling. Our little Earl
is one of these two hapless individuals. He stands
absolutely aghast. God of heaven ! muses the girl's
fond father, God of heaven ! what has the child been
about ! Poor darling, he continues, all unknowingly,
too. She asked me who Phryne was. I could not
tell her, I would not ; and see what has come of my
reserve ! The Earl was indeed so shocked, so nervous
it made him to see his beloved child thus take upon
herself a character so infamous, that drops of dew stood
upon his brow.

How does his tortured heart find some relief as the
song grows fainter and fainter, and at length dies quite
away. Georgie is gone, but the fame of her folly will
live. He scarce dare raise his eyes, lest he may seethe
men smiling wickedly ; for several of the younger
men in that room had been guests of Lord Springfield's
for the last week, and to them he had displayed
the picture, and with some of them he had discussed
the history of Phryne. Ah ! and a sharp thrill of

pain passes through the fond father's heart ; fur, at the
far end of the ball-room, near the doorway by which
his Phryne had just vanished, he does see a little
group of sinners close gathered together. Every man
there has doubtless a jest on his lips at his daughter's
expense ; and he sees the one man amid that group
whom he had hoped might possibly in the future
become his son-in-law, his Georgie's husband. At
the first glance Lord Bedingfield could not catch sight
of this man's countenance, his back was towards him ;
but now he turns round. Ah ! no jest is on those pale
lips. He is pale as death, pale with anger. Those
idle jests are as poisoned arrows.

He thus wounded is a noble-looking young fellow, at
the present time, however, undistinguished by fortune's
bounty. But destiny decrees him a brilliant future.
He is cousin and heir to an old Marquis of great
wealth. This is the man on whom our little Earl had
best loved to bestow his one treasure. And what
has Georgie been about ? Has she not brought upon
herself to-day a notoriety, to say the least of it, most
unenviable ?

Lord Bedingfield glided from amid the glittering
crowd. He shut himself up. He wandered about
vainly trying to recover his wonted equanimity. He
took but little part in the gaieties of the evening, and
few, perhaps none, remarked his temporary absence.

Dancing had commenced anew. A dance, now
forgotten, was in progress  the old-fashioned Spanish
dance. Phryne and her attendant nymphs are yet
invisible. All unconscious of the grievous breach of

decorum they have committed, the girls are laughing
over their past success, and preparing to enact their
second surprise.

Just as the Spanish dance is about to be relinquished,
a bevy of yellow plush footmen appears at the entrance
of the ball-room. Bowing low, trying their utmost to
look grave, they make a request similar to that that
their liveried brethren had made ere Phryne and her
attendant maidens had entered.

But these liveried gentlemen have something more todo.
In all haste, as the Lady Georgina had instructed
them, they carefully extinguish every waxen taper.
The arched, the monastic apartment, is lighted now
only by the soft and hallowed light that emanates from
the seven original pendent lanterns.

A group of young wits, of course of the masculine
gender, has congregated together. Each one in that
group is speculating wickedly on the character in which
Phryne will make her next appearance. But lo !
when jest is at its highest, peals forth from the chapel
adjoining an organ's softest, saddest tones. Anon the
swelling notes grow louder, then sink, dirge-like, low.

When every ear is listening, another and a sweeter
sound awakens yet keener attention. 'Tis a distant
chant of female voices. Another moment and the
holy sisterhood, the novice's procession, in all its chaste,
its virgin purity, passes before the eyes of the expectant
crowd.

Nelly Skeffington enacts the part of the novice.
She has a commanding yet a graceful figure. In her
rich white satin robe she looks, she walks the person i-

VOL. in. D

fiction of a high-born lady. Poor old pompous Sir
Mounteney might well be proud of his daughter; and
doubtless many others beside himself fully appreciated
the lovely girl's nobility of carriage. But Phryne,
who now enacts the inspired nun, Phryne, who sings
the solo parts of the chant, Phryne, who walks with
eyes upturned to Heaven, 'tis on her that every man
is gazing.

Poor girl ! how little as she so divinely warbled
forth her part, how little as she trode that ball-room
floor with such ecstatic steps, how little was she conscious
of her error ! But in happy ignorance of the
whispered jest, how exquisitely touching was the girl's
performance ! Georgina's singing, the result of an
inherent, passionate love of harmony, aided by long and
careful training, might have moved any heart, and the
heart that Phryne but now had so stabbed, the soul
of the noble-looking young D'Abridgecourt, melted to a
deeper tenderness as he listened to the pathos of the
recluse's chant.

The novice's procession lacked nothing of seeming
reality. Just as it had entered the ball-room, a priest,
clad in those gorgeous robes we Protestants gaze on
with wonder, a priest arrayed in cloth of gold, ruby
red and flowing white, stealing in from a side door,
joined it. Though the hallowed light that shone from
the seven monastic lanterns was dim after the former
blaze of waxen lights, it was noticed that the priest
was masked.

The procession has passed ; the tolling of the
chapel bell, the dirge-like notes of the organ yet maybe

heard, but the fair sisterhood has vanished ; their
chant sounds only as the wail of the distant dying
breeze. And the hundreds of spectators, as a bevy of
footmen fly to the tall waxen tapers and delight them,
as the band strikes up a lively air, ask, Has this been
a reality or a dream ?

We must now return to Helene. Although our
master could play very creditably at whist, he was not
at all given to card-playing, and it was not so very easy
a matter for Lady Bedingfield with all her tact to get
him into the card room. At length, however, she does
succeed in her purpose. She has the satisfaction of
seeing him fairly involved. She leaves him seated at
the whist-table with " my brother the Dean."

Our Countess was ever most apt at mischief. Withall
the vivacity and elasticity of a young girl, she
instantly flies to Helene to warn her " that now is her
time," to bid her "make hay while the sun shines."
Laughingly she bids Lord Brailsford conduct Lady
Daubigny along the gallery or corridor to the little
dressing-room, " and you are to wait, of course, outside,
at the door, until her Ladyship is attired. Do you
understand, Stephen ? And you are to bring your charge
back to this very spot where I am now. I will sit me
down here on this bench and await your return withall
the patience of an angel.  My dear," continues the
Countess, addressing Helene, " don't you find my son
very much wanting in the little attentions, the little
gallantries a man of the world so well comprehends,

and pays as it were instinctively? But go, don't
stay to answer, and make what you can of Stephen."

Lord Brailsford faintly laughed, and together they
went on their errand. It was a long low corridor they
had to traverse, remaining much as it used to be when
the abbey was bestowed on the Earl's ancestor, save
that now its walls were hung with pictures.

Who first thought of this little ruse ? " asked Lord
Brailsford as they went along.

The Countess your mother, of course," answered
the girl.

"You must not blindly follow all my mother's
advice," says Stephen. " I am very fond of her, but
am fain to confess she is not wisdom itself."

You think I am doing wrong?" asked Helene.

Not exactly wrong perhaps ; but if Sir Charles
does not know, it strikes me he may be offended, or at
any rate a little annoyed."

I wish you had not said this just now," murmurs
Helene ; " it makes me feel uncomfortable."

You must lay all the blame on my vivacious mamma.
The fair broad shoulders she has chosen to exhibit so
very much on her son's twenty-first birthday want a
little burden."

You don't like her costume."

"Well, I confess I think she might have chosen a
dress more befitting her years."

Her years ! Lady Bedingfield indeed is still quite
young."

I often tell her she is younger than myself." Lord
Brailsford heaved a deep sigh as he spoke.

You are serious on your birthright."

Ha ! yes ; but I will be gay. There, we are just
at the door of your tiring-room. I am to wait outside.
I suppose it may not be my happier fortune to witness
the mysteries of the toilet."

No," cried the girl, laughing ; " not a very likely
thing that you ever should."

But she who adopts a French costume, and of the
age of Louis Quatorze, might be supposed ready to
conform to the manners there and then in vogue. Will
you relent ? "

Good heaven, no ! What has come to you, Lord
Brailsford ?"

But a minute ago you complained I was serious ;
now by your heightened colour I perceive I am again
at fault. No, indeed ; believe me, I did but jest. I
honour you with all my soul."

As Lord Brailsford spoke he heard a sound of footsteps
on the oaken boards of the gallery ; he turned and
saw a figure not far from him, muffled in, or rather
disguised by, a black domino, wearing a mask.

It is very strange," continued Stephen with a start.
I seem to-night to be pursued by a black domino.
When I was by you in the ball-room, twice a similar
person appeared watching, nay, I thought listening."

"Have you no idea," said Helene, "who it can be?"

"Not the slightest. But who can penetrate such a
disguise ? It might be the devil himself."

As the young Lord said these last words, he laid his
hand on the old-fashioned lock of the door by which
Helene was to enter the appointed tiring-room.

Good-bye," cries the girl as she enters. " Have
patience ; I will not keep you waiting long."

And it was a marvel to herself how rapidly she
became transformed into Julie de Vancluse, for such
was the name the Countess had admonished her to adopt.
Not only was her own woman in attendance, there was
also a French maid, the latter personage instructed by
Lady Bedingfield to dress our little Gipsy's hair.

Lord Brailsford was naturally little addicted to mirth,
but when Mademoiselle Julie de Vancluse stepped forth
from the tiring closet, he could not resist a laugh ; the
Helene he worshipped was so entirely obscured, her
beautiful hair brushed off her forehead and powdered,
only two large roll curls on her shoulders, and they even
blanched, a little black silk mask covering eyes and
nose, and the dress, too, to him it appears grotesque, 
the short, very light-coloured blue satin petticoat, the
white silk-flowered train bunched up on either side,
the stiff-pointed bodice with its lacing in front, the
little muslin" ficliu, making the too low bodice more
discreet, the lightest blue stockings with rose-coloured
clocks, the high-heeled shoes with rose-coloured heels,
the black silk mittens, the fan of celestial blue and
gold. Ah ! we have forgotten to say that on one side
of the panoply of powdered hair was pinned a miniature
wreath of rosy rosebuds.

Julie is perfect, and forgetful of her husband's possible
displeasure, Mademoiselle de Vancluse, leaning on
Stephen's arm, returns to the ball-room,  returns in a
a state of childlike levity. True to her word, Lady
Bedingfield is still seated on the bench by the dour.

She is discoursing, however, so intently with a black
domino, that she starts when her son and the masked
lady interrupt her.

With a little whisper to the black domino who is
sitting on the bench beside her, Lady Bedingfield
arises. Performing with ostentatious ceremony a pretty
half-bow half-curtsy, as though Stephen were introducing
a stranger, she next inquires in French if Mademoiselle
de Vancluse will dance. On receiving in the
same language a favourable reply, the naughty Lucy
bestows her son as a partner.

A waltz tune of exquisite melody, half-sad half-joyous,
has just struck up, and in a few minutes Julie
de Vancluse and Lord Brailsford, in that sweet close
contact he had dreamed of as he wandered in the park
the day before, are threading their way amid the many
couples, who, light of heart and light of foot, are whirling
gaily down the vast apartment. After a while Julie
tells her partner that she is tired, she would rather sit
down.

He begs for one more turn. He can tell that the
girl is weary, she rather leans upon him. Oh ! moment
of ecstasy ! That that another sort of man had scarce
noticed, to Stephen, endued as he was with such acute
feeling, enthralled as he was by a first passion, that
little hand leaning on him was ecstasy. Yet, like the
waltz tune that resounded through the old monastic
apartment, there was a touch of sadness in his gratification.
The music seemed to harmonise with the sorrow
and the momentary joy of his destiny. Anon the sad
strain swept amid the gay and the thoughtless, and

died away as the dirge-like wail of an aeolian harp, to
be succeeded by notes telling only of energy and
gladness.

Rudely, however, was Lord Brailsford awakened from
the sad sweet thrill of delight that had stolen over him,
and by words that faintly broke from Julie's lips : " Je
me sens indispose," murmurs she ; " J'ai mal au cote
terriblement ! II faut que  " but a spasm of pain was
so fierce that that sentence was lost. In a moment she
continued, "Je puis a peine me supporter. We are
near the door, the corridor."

The young Lord comprehended, and the half fainting
girl, leaning on his arm, re-entered the corridor. Julie
had hoped to be able to reach her little tiring-room ;
but her hope or rather her purpose was thwarted by
another spasm and by another attack of faintness.
The girl, incapable of standing, was now supported
wholly by Stephen's arm, and precisely at this trying
moment the black domino stood beside them.

The mask must come off," said this shadow of evil
and darkness, and rapidly and without asking permission
he undid the black ribbon that kept it on.

Pardon me, my Lord," pursued the black domino,
flinmncj back the hood that concealed his features,
but perhaps you will suffer me to take your place.
This lady by marriage is my near relative."

Captain Daubigny !" exclaimed Stephen.

Precisely so ; and you must admit my better
claim to fulfil such an office."

I do not admit it at all," replied Stephen haughtily.

Julie, slightly recovering, recognised the voice of

Daubigny. The sound seemed to rend her very soul.
She burst into an hysteric passion of tears.

Madam," said Daubigny, " will you not admit that
if any arm supports you it should be mine ?"

Lord Brailsford," murmurs the girl, " do not leave
me."

Never," cries the young Lord, " unless you command
me ; and, sir, I must beg to remark that your conduct
during the whole of the past evening has been singular,
for I now comprehend who has been dogging my steps."

My Lord," retorts Daubigny, " does not my position
entitle me jealously to watch over the honour of this
lady ? But I will not stay to parry words with you.
My Lord, another time may serve us better. I go to
seek my uncle. He, at least, is authorised to interfere."


As young Daubigny uttered the last words, he
hastily readjusted the disguise he had partially castoff,
and then in anger and in haste disappeared.

In the middle or about half-way down the gallery
was a projecting window. Was it an oriel window ?
I know not how to term it, but it was high up in the
wall, and under it was an angular recess. Before
Captain Daubigny returned with his uncle, Lord
Brailsford had assisted the half-fainting girl to reach
this niche of refuge. She trembled so, however, from
nervous apprehension and from the pain in her side,
that she had still to lean on Stephen's arm for support.
Thus the poor little culprit stood when her astonished
husband presented himself. To describe the mingled
expressions that darkened Sir Charles's usually 

countenance would be impossible. Anger,
nay, even fierce anger, flashed from his great dark eyes
as he fixed them on the frightened girl. She dared not
meet his angry gaze. Her little pocket-handkerchief,
that tiny square of lace drenched with tears, formed a
screen.

This, all this," he cried, as he stood before the
sheltering niche, "this I am called upon to witness
is utterly incomprehensible. Will you have the goodness
to inform me, Lady Daubigny, how and why I
have been fooled, imposed upon ?"

Oh !" answers Helene, "never mind now ; only let
me get back to Brierly. I am too ill to care."

"Too ill to care!" repeated Sir Charles derisively ;
and, pray, what has caused this sudden attack of
illness ? When I left the ball-room you were perfectly
well."

Lord Brailsford now came to the crirl's rescue. " [
was dancing with Lady Daubigny, when suddenly, in
evident suffering, she asked me to leave the room with
her. She mentioned the corridor. We had scarcely
left the ball-room and gained its seclusion when she
fainted. There is, Sir Charles, as you may perceive, no
seat in the whole length of the passage, and had it not
been for my timely aid your wife had sunk on the
oaken boards."

Lord Brailsford's simple, straightforward manner, the
knowledge that his arm and not his nephew's had supported
the girl, somewhat pacified the poor husband,
yet he proceeded with a very natural question asked in
no amiable tone of voice : 

Pray, my Lord, may I take leave to inquire how
and why my wife assumed the foolish disguise in which
I see her? My nephew bore in his hand the mask
she had on, as he said, when she fainted."

It has been all a piece of my mother's folly. I
give you my word, Sir Charles, that she alone contrived
the little ruse."

And, pray, may I further inquire how it came to
pass that my nephew should be so close at hand when
my wife fainted ? How was it that he was so mixed
up in the affair?"

Captain Daubigny, in his present disguise, has been
officiously attentive to my movements to-night, but
until he threw back the hood of his domino and
discarded his mask, I was not aware to whom I
was so much indebted. He followed us here when
we left the ball-room, consequently was a witness
of Lady Daubigny's faintness ; nay, he wished to offer
his services, and on my declining to give place to
another, he instantly went in search of you, sir."

Sir Charles silently bowed his head. He seemed
still in a state of amaze, but his fierce wrath had subsided.
And now the girl with trembling steps leaves
the angular recess, and putting a little hand on her
husband's shoulder, beseeches him only to take her home.

The best place for a person so wanting in prudence,"
answered her angry Saint ; " but at present we cannot
leave, my carriage will not be here for another hour or
more."

If Lady Daubigny desires so much to leave," cries
Stephen, " I will order one of our carriages."

Oh! how can I thank you sufficiently?" says Helena
Pray do."

Scarce had she given utterance to her wish, scarce
had she besought him, when Lord Brailsford hastened
on his errand.

There is a little room," continues the girl, now
addressing her husband, " there is a little room
at the end of the gallery where I put this dress on.
Help me to get there. Give me your arm. Hannah
is waiting."

Sir Charles began to be satisfied that his wife's
illness was not the mere effect of agitation, and he
helped her, as she desired, to the little tiring-closet.

Happily the French maid had run off to get a peep at
the dancers and the maskers, and Hannah was there
alone.

Another quarter of an hour and Stephen taps at the
door announcing the carriage.

Covered over by that great fur-lined mantle which
St. Amour had arranged so cleverly when the poor girl
started for the birthright ball, covered over now in
utter carelessness of flower, or gauze, or ribbon, Helene
descends the short flight of stairs, reaches the hall door,
and gets into the waiting carriage.

Stephen, when she is in, holds out his hand. She
gives her little listened and bejewelled hand, and
receives such pressure as a lover offers to his mistress.

We have said that Lord Bedingfield felt too much
wounded in spirit to return to the ball-room. As for
the Countess, she was as little up in classic lore as her

daughter, and was yet in complete, in happy ignorance.
Moreover, her Ladyship's mind, as we shall have occasion
presently hereafter to show, was deeply occupied with
another subject, to her of supreme interest. So our
hapless little Earl wandered about coveting only solitude
and silence. Now he was in one place, now in
another ; now out of doors pacing the dark yew garden
alley, now in the forsaken library, now in his own
dressing-room. Half a dozen times had he changed
his mind as to reappearing at all again amid his merry
guests, ay, even at supper-time. Well, at length
for the third time he quits the old yew walk; the
irritation of his mind makes him restless. Not knowing
where else to find within doors a deserted room,
once more he turns into the library. This is a long,
low-ceiled room, lighted only now by the wood logs that
still burn on its hearth. It is a cold room too, and to
make it warmer one of those old-fashioned folding-screens,
covered with scraps, stands opened out near
the fireside. Lord Bedingfield is so disturbed he does
not feel the cold, and he seats himself at the far end
near the door. We know that he entered the room
believing it to be tenantless. How does he start when
he hears his daughter's voice ?

The Lady Georgina is evidently by the hearth, the
screen effectually hides him from her view. He hears
her speak in an excited, in an angry tone ; he can tell
that she is weeping. Silently he listens.

"You have said the most cruel things," cries
Phryne, " how can I ever forget them ? How could
you dare to believe I was conscious ? If you had felt

any respect, any real attachment for me, yon would
have known that I did it in ignorance."

I confess," answered a voice which the Earl recognised
as that of Captain d'Abridgecourt's, " I confess I
sinned grievously. I ought to have felt certain, and
yet, at the moment, it seemed almost impossible that
you could have been ignorant."

Well, sir, since you so misjudged me  "

For heaven's sake, Georgina, have some compassion !
If you but knew what it was to me, if you but knew
how, for the last year, I have been living in incessant
misery, dreading to make known to you my feelings
lest I should be repulsed, watching with intense anxiety
lest some more fortunate man might step in  "

And withal you choose to insult me ? Was that
the way, think' you, to succeed ? Go from me ! How
can I bear even to think of what you have said !
Have you not told me that I have made myself the
jest of mankind ? Have you not told me that the
odious name will cling to me for ever V

Great God ! how could I have been so insane ! I
am a passionate man, Georgina ; my temper, I confess,
is at times ungovernable."

A happy escape for me every way, sir. Leave me,
I command you !"

The Earl could stand no more. Was the girl going
to fling away that honest heart, that nobly constituted
nature ? Was she about to annihilate his own long-cherished
hope ? The little man starts from his chair ;
another instant, and he has passed the screen ; his armis
around his daughter.

Georgina," he says in accents hoarse with sorrow,
you have grieved me once to-night, inadvertently I
know, but cruelly. Will you, my child, yet grieve me
further ? Unintentionally I have overheard a part of
your discourse. I bid you, if you love me, I bid you
forgive the Captain. He has been over hasty, but  "

Oh, papa," cries the girl, resting her head on her
father's bosom, " you do not know all he has said."

Forgive him, Georgie. He thought that you sinned
knowingly."

"And if I do forgive him I shall be wretched,
when every one supposes I am an impudent creature.
How can I be seen again ? Not to-night, that is
certain."

My love, my love," cries the fond father, " dry your
tears, compose yourself ; you shall return with me. I
will not quit your side."

"And may I not too claim a place ?" asks the lovesick
Captain almost falteringly. " My Lord, I know
that I am scarce justified in my present poor circumstances,
I know that my proposal must seem rash,
premature ; but if of your great goodness you could
permit  "

My dear fellow," cries the Earl, " make it up with
Georgie. You will not find me obdurate. Your father
was my earliest and my best-loved friend. He had an
honest heart, and, I believe, Will, you have a good heart
too. The stingy old chief your cousin may linger on
a many years yet, but what of that ? I can spare my
Georgie a decent income. Damn it, what's fortune
without a heart ? "

Georgina, do you hear what your father says ?"
murmurs the noble-looking D'Abridgecourt.

yes, I hear," answers Georgina haughtily.

But you do not agree, that is evident," again murmurs
the unfortunate lover.

Perhaps not ; why should I be in such violent
haste ?"

I comprehend perfectly," pursues D'Abridgecourt,
some happier fellow, some fellow with greater present
advantages. Ah, Georgie, you may well demur. I
may be dead and buried long before him. Fool that I
have been ! Georgie, 'tis I who will not be seen again
to-night ; I will not stay."

During this last part of the discourse Lord Springfield
had stolen to the other end of the room, hoping
that the lovers would make it up.

Did I tell you to go ? " asks Georgina, turning her
gaze on one of God's noblest works, for D'Abridgecourt
was noble-looking as he was worthy in heart.

Your indifference, to feel assured of your indifference
as I do now  "

Did I say I was indifferent ? " asked the girl.
.Can't you wait till tomorrow morning ?"

No, by God, I can't," cries the Captain. " To be
refused coolly, systematically ; to be told that on consideration
it is too great a risk, that you may have
years of indigence, dependence. No, Georgie, now or
never." The noble-looking pauper laid his hand
on the girl's wrist and fixed his mournful gaze
upon her, then with a sad smile he added, " Phryne,
farewell ; thus terminates my hapless life. The long

VOL. III. E

years ' to come will be not life. Farewell, there will
be nothing."

D'Abridgecourt turned towards a second door there
was in the centre of the long room, but with an agile
step the girl followed him. He had reached this door,
which led into a dark narrow passage. As he set his
foot into this seldom-used passage, he felt Georgie's
little hand arresting his progress.

Willie," she murmurs.

"What?" asks he with a heart beating wildly.

"Why should I come here if I do not want
you ?"

He pauses, he casts his arms around his Phryne,
he presses her to his heart ; he could not control himself,
he kissed the girl passionately ; she was his  his
own Phineas

the Lady Georgina freed herself from her lover's
embrace, which, to say truth, was nowise unwelcome
to her, for until this minute she had always thought
D'Abridgecourt's nature stoically frigid,  as she freed
herself from this miraculous and daring revolt against
propriety, and together they re-entered the dim old
library, they were both surprised at hearing some one
in discourse with the Earl. Another instant and they
saw that the speaker was but a footman, and they heard
him continue 

Yes, my Lord, her ladyship desired me to go everywhere
in search of you, my Lord, and give you this,"
holding out a ball programme.

Georgie," cries the Earl to his daughter, " your
young eyes are better than mine. See if by this

flickering blaze you can make out what your mother
has written ; the devil a bit I can."

Papa, dear, you needn't call up the devil," cries
Georgie, kneeling down before the glowing wood embers
and examining the card.

I 'd better bring a light, if your ladyship will allow
me ?" inquires the man who had borne Lucy's commands.


No," answers the girl, " I can see. Willie, just give
the wood a stir."

With what alacrity the joyful lover obeys ! The
sleepy log sends up a hundred sparks and one bright
blue blaze, by which Phryne reads 

Why on earth, my Lord, have you absented yourself
this hour and a half or more ? I positively cannot
and will not have supper announced until I am assured
you will be present. Stephen looks like a ghost, and I
am quite overcome with fatigue. Write on the card
that you will be in your place at table to ease the
mind of your Lucy."

Poor love, she has had a night on 't ! There 's ink
here. Write, Georgie, for me ; but no, she '11 take that
amiss ; give me the pen," and Lord Bedingfield, kneeling
before the embers, writes :  " Lucy dear, it 's all
right now ; you may have supper announced ; I 'm
quite ready."

Carry this instantly," says the little Earl, rising
from his knees with some effort, " carry this to Lady
Bedingfield, and, do you understand, when I am wanted
tell butler to come here and give me notice."

The serving man bows and departs to do his errand.

Now, Georgie," continues his Lordship, " are the
tears dry, are the curls set in order? You're to go
into the supper-room with me, you know."

Well, but I hardly know whether I can."

yes, you can."

I shall look a fright, anyhow. What with being
so vexed and  "

"Well, my dear, whatever you look it'll be real,
natural, and it's quite time you did appear in your
natural character ; twice to-night you 've been seen
painted up."

Don't I look a perfect fright, Willie ? " cries the
girl, turning to her lover ; " ain't my eyes all red, and
my nose ; and my hair all ruffled ?"

There is no time for further remark. A portly personage
enters the library and delivers himself of his
lady's message 

"My Lord, my Lady says you must come to the
supper-room instantly."

And Georgie, leaning on her father's arm, a sweet consciousness,
" shown more in the eyelids than the eyes,"
with the colour mantling on her cheek as she thinks of
the folly she has committed, is threading her way up
the crowded room, and is presently seated beside that
fond father's chair, D'Abridgecourt every now and
then, as he stands behind her own, bending down and
whispering some fond, some grateful lover's raptures.
Happy, happy Georgie !

My young reader may or may not be conscious that
leading from various old abbeys have accidentally been
discovered passages of considerable extent formed
underground. Of these subterranean passages, by
which the holy monk might convey himself elsewhere,
unseen by his less holy lay neighbours, doubtless good
use was made. Accident had discovered to a former
Lord Bedingfield that Otteley Abbey was thus provided.
The Earl of that day was no less eccentric than
the Earl we are endeavouring to portray. He had a
taste, as it would seem, for underground life. The
passage thus accidentally discovered he had carefully
repaired, and an octagon shaped enlargement or excavation
which was found in the passage, he had turned
into a room to which he might retire when a fit of
melancholy stole over him. Sixty years had passed
since this octagon-shaped room had been completed,
decorated, and furnished, yet it still remained in very
tolerable order, and at pleasure could be warmed,
lighted, and rendered habitable.

The present Lord Bedingfield had seldom cared to
visit this cellar, as he termed it ; but the sportive Lucy
had occasionally had it aired and lighted up, that to

those of her frequent guests yet uninitiated she might
display this " evidence of insanity," as she would laughingly
call it, in her husband's family.

The Countess had ordered this seldom visited and
gloomy apartment to be in readiness on the occasion
of her son's birthright ball ; nay, she herself more
than once during the preceding week had descended
to it by the monk's passage, to see that the servant
whose business it was to attend to the fire kept a good
one burning on the hearth. 'Tis the chill dawn of a
November morning. The maskers, the dancers, the
graver and older folk who have been at the birthright
ball are now proceeding homewards. The country road
usually so quiet at this dubiously-lighted hour, when
the moon still rides high in her glory, and yet the
abbey clock proclaims aloud 'tis morning  the country
road, usually so quiet, testifies of the past gaiety ; some
of the people had come as many as ten or fifteen miles
to attend the party. Their four post-horses are clattering
onwards 'twixt the now leafless hedgerows. Some
nearer neighbours, or humbler or singer people, are
creeping up the hill at a snail's pace with one poor
horse or a pair.

The last carriage has at length drawn up before the
abbey's porch of entrance. The Earl, in high gooch
humour, because he loves his daughter, because he
believes that Will d'Abridgecourt will make her
happy, the Earl, in high good humour, and not a little
elevated by the oft-repeated glasses he has quaffed at
supper, stands just within the picturesque old porch,
giving his last good night. Stephen, it is presumed, has

retired to his own apartments, for he is nowhere about.
Georgie sits by the drawing-room fire, sipping coffee
with three of her dearest girl friends, who look very
vise, and her Captain, who looks rather conscious and
spooney. And where is our naughty Lucy ? Her Lord
supposes, as he has been told, that, quite overcome with
fatigue, she has gone to bed. But, alas ! women ofttimes
send messages with a view to deceive. Lucy is
not in her bed ; Lucy is not in her chamber ; Lucy has
no; yet flung aside her too bewitching costume. Ah !
sad to tell, the Countess, with noiseless step, has glided
through the monk's passage, has some time since
reached the subterraneous chamber. The still lovely
woman sits by a little table, close drawn before the
logwood fire. One unloved and bejewelled hand
supports her head, her bare elbow rests on the baize
covering of the table. Her cheek, even through the
rouge which habitually she wears, is flushed. Her
great and soft and tender blue eyes tell only of love.
Lucy is not alone. Desmond de St. Brie, the Bomish
priest, the lover of her girlhood, is in that chamber too.
He is pacing the small octagonal room in evident emotion.
Lucy," he says, " there was a time when such a
change in my position would have seemed but as the
wildest dream. But now its probable accomplishment
can only be a question of weeks or months. My unfortunate
cousin's case is utterly hopeless. At his own
request I visited him last week. I found him propped
up by pillows ; his cough was fearful. lie is pronounced
to be in the last stage of a consumption. We
had not met since his and my boyhood, when he

seemed to have almost as poor a chance as myself of
ever being where he has reigned the last ten years.
He told me that until he consulted the old family
lawyer he was not aware that the estates were entailed
on me. He was very candid. He said that until he
had had that consultation he had contemplated mating
a will. He conjured me to renounce my present
faith, my present vocation. At first, Lucy, the destiny,
the future destiny that may be mine, seemed like a wild
dream, and nothing more. It was some time before I
could believe, absolutely believe, in my own altered
position. But having accustomed my mind to the
belief, I became a prey to the most cruel depression.
Of what use to me that splendid old English home ?
Could I alone there find any interest in life ? Then
bitter and terrible reminiscences overwhelmed my soul.
Then it was that passion, tempestuous, uncontrollable
as the surging waves, once more took possession of my
being. What if I did renounce my present sad vocation
? What if I changed back to my early faith and
became Master of Tunbridge ? Can you not guess,
my Lucy, can you not guess what else I coveted?
Can you not imagine all the forbidden hopes that
thronged upon me? Canst thou not imagine that
that I dare not ask? The sacrifice I dare not, yet I
would propose."

As Desmond St. Brie finished speaking, Lucy lifted
up her beautiful countenance. But in another instant,
to avoid the wild gaze fixed upon her, or rather to shut
it out, her hand is before her eyes ; for the priest, his
green eyes dark under excitement, his brows knitted,

his hands pressed hard together, his breath coming
short and quick, stands regarding the one thing he
covets, the fair object of his desire.

What a moment is this for Lady Bedingfield, aged
thirty-eight, still lovely in person, her heart full of an
indestructible passion ! Here is her first, her ever-devoted
lover, offering to bring scandal unspeakable
upon himself, ready to resign his holy office if she will
but share the home, the wealth that destiny decrees
shall be his !

What a fearful struggle is in the woman's heart !
Her bosom, clad only in the loose-fitting garments
peculiar to the reign of Charles the Second, shrouded
only by the lace-trimmed chemise beneath, visibly
heaves with anguish, with repression of forbidden
thought.

Desmond," she murmurs, " it may not be. I could
bear all but my children's scorn. Nay, I could scarcely
bear to break his heart. In his odd way he loves me
very much. It would be a ruined, blasted home.
Georgie has, beneath her liveliness, deep feeling; she
loves her father; she would never forgive, she would
never see me more."

Lucy," cries the priest in accents broken, tremulous,
telling of the heart's despair, "Lucy, it is enough.
Alas ! why have I sought to lead thee to perdition ?
Yes, yes, remains for me the same weary, isolated life,
until God in mercy grants me a release."

Oh, Desmond, dearest Desmond," answers Lucy,
let me beseech thee, let me add my prayers to those
of thy dying kinsman. Forswear, forsake the Romish

Church. Oh ! thou didst join it but in rashness, in
infatuation ; 'tis but ambition chains thee to it."

Nay, my sweet Lucy," cries the priest, a sad smile
on his lips, a touch of sarcasm beaming from his eyes,
if thy scruples and thy virtue are of such strength as
to sunder us for ever, I change not ; I still pursue my
aim. Long has my life been monotonously dull, but in
the future I may count on greater scope for the ambition
thou condemned. Success, more onerous duties
to perform, harder work for the brain, will at least
bring me something of oblivion. A life of idleness, of
ease, fortune secured, would make the penance to
which thou hast condemned me too heavy. Harry
may take my place; to him such a destiny will be
without a thorn."

Do not in haste cast away that which Heaven provides,
provides as in mercy, to snatch thee from a world
fraught with dark schemes overlaid with tinsel glory.
Do not reject thy better fortune. Oh, Desmond," continues
Lucy, now gazing on her lover imploringly,
dost thou hear me ? All that I may give of tenderness,
without bringing sorrow on my children, shame
upon myself, shall be thine."

Alas ! Lucy, there was a time when, hadst thou
thus spoken, I had listened, I had hoped. But what
can restore that peace, that apparent goodwill there
used to be 'twixt him and me ? In a moment of
frenzy hast thou not made him jealous ? Does he
not wrong thee ? Does he not almost doubt  "

Nay, Desmond," murmurs Lucy hastily and in
sweet confusion, "there is no need to speak further,

no need to clothe thy meaning in words. I comprehend.
Pardon me, Desmond, bnt it seems tome
thy residence abroad has made thee less careful.
But, indeed, were I to grant my Lord his former
privileges  "

For God's sake, Lucy, keep him where he is,"
cries Desmond. " 'Tis the only good thy quarrel ever
wrought me."

Oh ! but, dearest Desmond," murmurs Lucy, her
soft blue eyes in modest shame cast down, " tell me, has
our life been happier since that my day of candour and
of frenzy ? How terrible to be obliged to meet thee thus
by stealth, to receive thy letters trembling lest his jealous
eye catch the well-known characters, and to receive
them seldom ! I hate thy priesthood, thine holy office ;
my mind ofttimes misgives me. Oh ! thou art under
temptation too strong for man always to resist."

Great God ! Lucy, canst thou suspect me of infidelity
? I swear to thee that I have borne the penance
of severest chastity. This from thee ! Oh ! it is too
much. To what hast thou condemned me ? Oh ! better
that I never gazed upon thy loveliness if never I may
touch nor taste. No traveller in the desert dying of
unslaked thirst  Why art thou rising? Why this
haste ? go not yet ! "

Thou scares me. Call up thy self-control. do
not stay abroad. There is a change in thee. Thy words
trench on impropriety ; thy wild and eager look  Oh !
Desmond, love me, love me tenderly, love me every
moment of thy life, but only offer me such homage as
I dare receive."

Be not surprised if to-night, in much unwittingly,
I have transgressed, if my words have passed discretion.
Hope had so winged my love, it bore me upwards to a
giddy height. Ay, I thought I felt the summer sun
again. I thought I wandered with thee as of old, inhaling
all the perfume of the flowers around us. My
soul, its darkness went ; my soul was clad anew. Thy
coldness or thy prudery dashes hope lower than the
earth. God ! I scarce know what I say. And wilt
thou leave me, Lucy, in this dark abyss ? Wilt thou
not grant me one embrace, one drop of water to a
dying wretch ?"

Desmond," cries Lucy, " call up thy self-control. I
thought that years had taught thee reason. Think of
all that I have said. I go, I dare not stay."

She is gone, she is gone.

My reader may remember that we left Georgie sipping
a cup of coffee by the drawing-room fireside, together
with Will d'Abridgecourt and some few of her favourite
girl friends.

The Earl we left at the hall door. For the last half-hour
or more before we noted his Lordship's position,
he had been occupied in the abbey's fine old hall, giving
hearty shakes of the hand to many of his departing
guests, the liveliest bows and smiles to those of the
decamping crowd less known to him. He had grown
somewhat chary of his words now, for of late he had
become so enormously fat that it was no small difficulty
to him to pronounce words distinctly. A man who
habitually drank at least his bottle a day, Lord Springfield
was seldom affected (to show it) by wine drinking.
But at the great supper over which to-night he had
been presiding, and under such happy excitement, he
had so far exceeded all rational measure as to be scarce
master of his speech or his imagination.

The last carriage rolls from the abbey door, and our
noble friend crosses the hall and enters the drawing-room.


Come, Georgie," he murmurs, advancing towards his

daughter and putting his arms around her, " come, it 's
long past cock-crow, and you not in your little nest
yet. Come," glancing at the other girls, " come, you
young innocents, you mustn't let the dawn peep in
upon you here."

Oh, papa, pray don't disturb us just this minute. I
am so tired, and it's almost the only rest and peace
I 've had for hours and hours."

Must, must," continues his Lordship. " Lucy' s abed
; no one to see after you. Georgie," he whispers,
plenty o' time for courting' tomorrow  next day."

Papa, dear papa," murmurs the blushing girl, who
begins to see what state of elevation her father is in,
yes, I had better go, and you too, dear. Won't you ?
We 11 go together. Willie, will you ring for the night
candles ? They won't be in the hall as usual."

Lord Bedingfield has now placed himself with his back
to the drawing-room fire. His recent exertions in the
chill night air make welcome the glowing warmth the fire
emits. As he stands thus conspicuously before the little
group we have named, arrayed in his black silk stockings,
his black silk knee-breeches, his white waistcoat and
blue coat, the never-absent voluminous roll of white
cravat round his short, bull-like throat, half burying
his little dimpled chin in its snowy folds, as the Earl
thus stands prominently forth, the fire light behind him
throwing out every portion of his figure, he reminded
young D'Abridgecourt of the poor prize animals who
can hardly breathe, and can scarce wait in life the
leisure or the convenience of the butcher. The enormous
calves to his dwarfish legs, the stomach, clad in

its white waistcoat, forming such a protuberance as
nearly reached to the knee, the cheeks so puffed out,
the lips so full, so deeply red, no wonder our noble
friend had grown slow of speech and difficult to
understand.

But despite the oddities of her father, Georgie really
loved him, and she soon succeeded in carrying him off.
They proceeded together all right up the great staircase,
they even reached his Lordship's sleeping apartment
without delay or obstacle. Here Georgie had hoped to
deposit her charge ; she had hoped to leave him in the
hands of his old valet Marston. But the birthright ball
had turned every one's head. Old Marston was making
merry below. Moreover, to Georgie's utter dismay, a
fancy suddenly came into her father's head. He was
determined " to go tell mamma to-night the news."

We are sorry to say that our naughty Lucy had
never since "the day of her candour and her frenzy"
shared her husband's apartment. And this is the first
time since that luckless day that her Lord has ever
thought of invading her privacy. But elevated as he
is, no remonstrances or entreaties of Georgie's are of
any effect, and, in despair, the girl leaves him at her
mother's door. Georgie is too happy in herself to
venture into that room. She feels certain the Countess
will dislike such untimely intrusion. She will go to
bed herself and dream sweetly of the future. The
same careless Lucy, who in her girlhood had dropped
or mislaid her cousin Desmond's love-letter, is often the
same careless Lucy still. Unwittingly or unthinkingly
now to-night she has left her chamber-door unlocked,

thereby enabling her Lord to detect her duplicity. He
enters the room, he sees her not, he naturally concludes
that she has already gone to bed. He walks up to the
bed, he draws aside the curtain, but, alas ! he finds not
the little wife. He finds no sign of recent occupation ;
smooth and unruffled are sheet and counterpane.

Ah, reader ! try to behold our noble friend at this
hapless moment as he stands beside the bedstead incredulous,
amazed. A French bedstead it is, with a
laughing Cupid painted au naturel hovering over it. Its
curtains are silk, of couleur de rose, trimmed with lace,
the counterpane to match. The Earl, homely and true
of heart, stands by his fine Lady's gewgaw bed like one
stricken. He had entered his wife's pretty perfumed
chamber all hope, all joy, all glee ; but now ice is on
his heart, and his hands grow icy as his heart. He
sinks into a chair, he buries his fat and puffy cheeks,
his bewildered eyes in his hands. There is nothing of
his face to be seen, only his round bald head, for the
chair he has chosen to sink into is set before Lucy's
toilet-table, and his elbows lean on that. The shock to
the soul already has well-nigh sobered him ; if the
empire of wine does anything now, it is to add depth
and dread to his suspicions.

By the chiming of a gilded French clock perched
on a gilded bracket, the Earl hears one quarter of an
hour succeed another, and thus nearly an hour of
anguish passes.

But at length, at length on his straining ear falls a
sound. It is Lucy's footstep ; and, all unconscious of
her husband's presence, Lucy is in the centre of her

room. As she approaches her toilet-table, where two
waxen lights are burning, with a wild start she
exclaims, " Good heavens ! how came you here, my
Lord ?"

Madam," hoarsely retorts Lord Bedingfield, " how
came you absent ?"

I will not have this espionage practised upon me,"
cries Lucy angrily. " Go, my Lord, go."

Madam  I shall  not go. An hour here  very
nigh an hour I 've been. Ere I go  explain."

I will never satisfy your idle curiosity," cries Lucy
haughtily. " Is it possible you could condescend to
watch my movements ?"

"No, Madam, no. Came to tell you a piece of
news ; came to tell you it's to come off 'twixt my
Georgie and Will  settled. But, God of heaven !
Madam, what 's anything to me now ? This damned
masking  a planned thing ;" and once more covering
his face with his hands, the scarce sober Earl burst
into a passion of tears.

Lucy had naturally a tender heart. The sweetness
of her nature beamed forth even in her soft blue eyes.
She approaches her Lord, she leans over him, one soft
hand on his shoulder ; she says, " Everard, do you hear
me ; your suspicions are wholly unfounded."

Explain, then  explain. Why did you send a
message to me saying you were weary  quite overcome
? "

Well, but indeed it was true. I could curtsy and
smile and talk and stand no longer. I felt almost
faint. I went into a quiet place."

VOL. III. f

Then your maid told damned lie. Bedroom  goto
bed it was."

Celine 's a fool always," cries our naughty Lucy.
Come, forget this nonsense. Let me hear more about
Will and Georgie. I know, Everard, that pleases
you."

No, it don't."

Lucy began to perceive that her spouse was a trifle
under the shadow of the grape. She hoped to cajole
him into comfort. " Will you let me see you to your
room, my dear Everard?" she asks in a sweet but yet
scarcely steady voice. " To-morrow morning you will
wake quite surprised at your own wild thoughts."

Shan't budge an inch, Madam. Here I am ; here
will I stay. The devil himsel' shan't move me. Had
you explained  different."

And are you going to sit here all night watching
me like a madman ? " asked the disconcerted Lady.

No, Madam ; I '11 throw me on your silly painted
bed."

And what will befall this dear little hairless head ?"
cries Lucy, laughing ; " can it escape pain and peril
without its dear little white cotton nightcap ? "

Madam, is it handsome of you to make game of my
baldness?"

I do not make game," cries Lucy, now growing
provoking ; " but it does remind me of an apple  no,
not an apple, a rounded peach ; yes, there 's a little
down upon it still. It isn't so round, neither. I can
see the organs of suspicion, of inquisitiveness, my Lord,
standing out prominently."

Nay, Madam, for aught I know, there should "be
vaster prominences. In men's eyes my head may be
akin to that of one of my own herd."

My Lord," answers Lucy with a provoking smile,
I never have attempted so to adorn you ; but if it
would make you happier to bear a closer resemblance
to one of your own pets, with a little of my own connivance,
and with some of your contrivance, I think it
might be managed."

Lucy," cries her Lord, " you are in-incorrigible."

"My Lord, a man whose breath is so short ought
not to indulge in such long words. They will be your
an-inhalation."

I see, Madam, your object is to sneer at me till I
get into a damned rage. You hope to provoke me to
quit you, but nothing you can say shall move me.
Explain, Madam. Was lie here, the hypocrite who
for years infested my house, for whose sake you have
driven me from your apartment ?"

This, my Lord," cries our haughty Lucy, " this is
utterly untrue. Reverse the case if you please. Twas
you who chose to drive me away. Never shall I forget
that party at Richmond when you stole away from me
with the dark-browed Jewess; and afterwards, did I
not see you watching her intently as she went up the
rustic steps ?"

What !" cries his Lordship, " can I believe it ? No,
it was a little ruse of yours, Lucy. You wanted to pick
a quarrel; jealous of her ! bandy as a bull-dog, Madam."

Then I have to thank those rustic steps for a cure
of your passion."

Passion, Madam ! you 're enough to make any
man in a passion ; but I '11 be calm. You won't succeed
in your object. You '11 not get me off the scent.
Madam, I demand an un-equivocal answer. Tell me,
was that saint-like humbug with you but now? 'Was
Desmond de St. Brie the companion of your retirement?"

I will never condescend to answer so impossible, so
ridiculous a supposition," cries Lucy, still affecting a
playful indifference, but in reality shuddering at her
husband's persistency.

My sup-position, Madam, is neither impossible
nor ridiculous," gasps his Lordship. " Why have you
shut me out of your apartment ? Why, when once,
only once in two years, I 've entered it, why were you
absent ?"

And is it such a grievance, my Lord, that we lie
apart 0' nights ? What is there in that ?" asks the
Countess.

"Not to you, no, Madam. But what may be
sport to one may be torture to another. You won't
explain."

I '11 do something better," cries Lucy, " that is,
with your permission. Will it quench the fire of
your jealousy to have me back ? Ah, yes ; take me
once more to the region of boots and buckskins. Take
me, Everard ; be with me ; watch me night and day.
Like another Millamant I see I must bid adieu to my
dear liberty, to my faithful solitude, to my darling
contemplation (sighs and quotes): 'Adieu, then, my
morning thoughts, agreeable waking, indolent slumber,
all ye douceurs, ye sommeils du matin, adieu.' "

Pray, Madam, include in your senti-mental adieus
your hovering cupid here, your gewgaw French bed,
for which you have so long, so un-reasonably, so
un-justifiable forsaken mine. Would I could forget
the day, the hour you did so  the cruel words were
spoke."

I was angry, I was jealous, I was in a rage,"
murmurs Lucy, blushing even through her powder
and her rouge.

"What?" says the Earl, "what did you tell me?
that on our marriage-day you ab-so-lutely loathed me ;
that you were bar-variously torn from your cousin; and
that if I wanted a witness of the passion burning in
your soul for another, I might find it in Stephen's
strange w T bird eyes. Madam, I ask you now, to-night,
was it only the passion burning in your soul that
set that damned brand upon the lad ? God knows
I've scarce ever met his glance since without a
shudder."

I tell you," cries Lucy, " I was jealous, and I
said anything that came into my head merely to
provoke you. But for Stephen's eyes, they only
show a family likeness. Isn't poor Desmond my own
first cousin?"

Poor Desmond ! he who, child as you were, had  "

When I 'm jealous," cries the Countess, "I 'm always
half mad. I declare sometimes I 've felt quite enraged
to see you toying with Solomon."

"Ha! ha! to be sure."

Yes, I hated you for a whole week when I knew
you 'd given a thousand guineas for the monster. Can

you find any other woman's husband who ever paid
such a price for a bull ? "

And can't I a right to give myself one pleasure ?
Lucy, Lucy, have I ever stinted you? A thousand I
paid Wendell and Bridge for your diamond necklace."

I should like to hang it on the monster's horns, I
should," cried Lucy petulantly. " Pray let him wear it
at the Christmas show."

Didn't I give five hundred for your portrait ?"

Did I want the portrait?" asks her Ladyship.

No, no ; 'twas I, Lucy, and I looked upon it with
pride and with love till that damned hour. Ah ! that
I could blot out  "

Shall I go down on my knees and once more protest
that I spoke but in jealous frenzy?" cries the
Countess, gently putting her bare and lovely arms
around her Lord, and gazing sweetly upon him.

No, child," cries he, returning the embrace, not,
however, artificially, phlegmatically as 'twas given.
In his embrace was manifest all the yearning and the
passion so long repressed.

You need not be quite so demonstrative, my Lord,"
cries Lucy, laughing, as she seeks dexterously to extricate
herself from her Lord's loving arms, trembling lest
a portion of her belle ehevelure may be left on his noble
bosom or in his grasp. The fact was, that in order
more perfectly to counterfeit Lely's well-known portrait
of the fair, frail Shrewsbury, her Ladyship had been
compelled to have recourse to additional tresses. Her
own soft silky ones did not vie in length and abundance
with those of the famous lady she sought to

imitate. Celine had twisted in, with inimitable skill,
the long flowing false hair ; but neither maid nor
mistress had contemplated the embrace of a husband,
who, for two years, had been denuded of his rights 
who had lived in a state of famine during that long
period.

'Tis midday in November, 'tis the day succeeding
Stephens birthright ball. Autumn has stolen slowly,
softly o'er the land this year ; no wail of wind, no
wildly drifting leaves. In thousand varied tints the
fallen leaves rest where they fell, rest on the short, fine,
lawn-like grass beneath the parent trees. There is a
genial mildness in the dewy air, a hush, a sad yet sweet
serenity. 'Tis just the sort of day when the dreamy
idler loves to wander, loves to dream. Leaves, brightly
tinted leaves yet linger on the mountain-ash, and
berries, berries far brighter still, hang in abundance,
pendent. The native blackbird yet has spared to
touch, the stranger throng of noisy thrushes has not
sought as yet to reap its annual harvest.

'Tis a strange, varying, fickle day ; breaks forth e'en
now a gleam of golden sunlight. We gaze, and as we
gaze rolls a- down the woody and the undulating vale
a cloud of mist. 'Tis gone ; and rests once more on
Stephen's home, on that vast mingled pile, a golden
halo. In its grey, its dim irregularity, how picturesque
looks Otteley ! We venture near : we see the ivy stems
crossing, woven like network, o'er the abbey's crumbling
walls, o'er that portion of the building long disused.

Oh, ye old ivy stems, ye older walls, had ye but voice to
speak, what strange romantic truths ye 'd tell ! Of
what deep sorrows would ye breathe ! Ye would tell
how all that seemed so bright, so passing fair, was false.
Ye would tell how wrong went everything on earth.

Young hopeful reader, want ye a proof that all things
are distract, awry on earth ? Here is proof. Behold
the future Lord of Otteley ! Rapid his footsteps as he
treads the dewy grass, and marked by strange irregularity.
They tell the tumult of the soul. Ah ! see,
by a short cut known to him from childhood, he threads
his way through brake and dell to Brierly. Not long-have
we to watch, so rapidly he walks. How soon he
gains the bridge where Helene last saw Daubigny, last
saw him ere the last night's sad encounter at the birth-night
ball. Onward walks Stephen. Perhaps his steps,
his gait grows more unsteady as he nears the house.
Once there, he pauses for awhile, gazes round. Fain
had he stolen in rather than ring and be announced inform,
for he is on a secret errand. But the hall door
is closed, no window open, and he perforce must ring.
He rings ; a footman to whom he is well known answers
the bell.

Is Sir Charles at home ?" he asks.

No, my Lord, I 'm sorry to say Sir Charles is out.
He was obliged to attend the great meeting to-day at
Guildford." Oh, Stephen ! what simulation has thy
secret passion taught thee! Thou didst know or believe
that our master must be out.

"Can I see Lady Daubigny then?" asks his young
Lordship.

I 'm 'most afraid, my Lord, that your Lordship cannot,"
answers the man ; " my Lady 's very poorly.
Her woman told me but now she couldn't come to
luncheon."

I have a message for your mistress. Will you send
her maid?"

You 11 please to come in, my Lord," pursues the
man. Stephen bows his head and follows his conductor
to the morning-room.

what tokens of a careless girl in this room are
strewn about, tokens of yesterday's carelessness even ;
Helene was always careless. Her work she 'd worked
at lately, a pair of crumpled gloves, an embroidered
pocket-handkerchief unwittingly she had dropped this
very morning, a blue ribbon that had been around
Pug's neck, a bracelet. At another time Lord Brails-ford
had regarded these little tokens with all a lover's
idolatry, but now, now too great a weight is on his
heart.

'Tis some short space before grave Hannah comes.
Stephen thinks that she will never come, and when
she does appear she stands before him stiff as any poker.

Can Lady Daubigny see me ?" asks Stephen.

Hannah gravely shakes her prim, neat head. " She 's
a-lying down, my Lord, on the bed, trying to get a little
sleep."

Go," cries he, his green eyes dark and brilliant,
"go tell your mistress that I have a message about
something she feels an interest in,  something that
happened last night. Nay," continues he as he glances
on Hannah's hard, matter-of-fact countenance, "give

me a slip of paper ; I have a pencil," and his demand
complied with, he writes but two brief sentences.

How soon she comes ! Before she had lain down she
had loosened her clothes and put on a white muslin
dressing-gown. She had not stayed to change it, nor
even to readjust her hair, which hangs down in long
tresses somewhat dishevelled. Her cheek is flushed,
her eyes look heavy, her hand trembles. What is she
to hear ?

You have come to tell me something," says Helene
in tremulous excitement.

"No; I have rather come to ash you something,"
murmurs Lord Brailsford. "Soon after you left last
night, your nephew" (with a sarcastic smile) "your
nephew chose to seek a quarrel with me. But it is not
exactly of the quarrel I came to speak, it is of the
falsehoods in regard to yourself. He told me that you
loved him ; that long before his uncle had married you,
there had been passages of love betwixt himself and
you ; that his arm, with your consent, had been where
mine unavoidably was last night when you fainted ;
that you had granted him other favours. I was incredulous,
I was amazed, and I believe in my indignation
I told him that he lied. You may imagine what
followed. Unless I retracted my words, unless I apologised
 but that is nothing. I want to know whether
there is any, the slightest truth in your nephew's
assertion. Lady Daubigny, in these grave circumstances,
I think I may venture to ask."

Lord Brailsford stands gazing on the girl intently.
She is sitting in a great arm-chair. As he pours out

his words her eyes are averted. As now he stands
before her, his gaze, his clear, bright, honest gaze is too
much for her to bear. She leans an elbow on the
cushioned chair, and shades her face with her hand.
What is she to answer ? the truth ? Yes. She sees
that, to save the fiery jealous twain from strife, she
must speak the truth. But oh ! how cruel, when those
young honest eyes are gazing on her, to have to confess,
to drag to light her early folly.

You do not speak," says Stephen, and an anguish
indescribable is thrilling through his soul.

"It is true," murmurs the girl; "he has spoken the
truth."

A sigh  no, an exclamation of suppressed despair 
breaks from Stephen ; he seems unable to stand, and
sinks down on the nearest seat.

"Yes," repeats our Helene, "it is true;" and then
slowly, with agitation, with effort, now in bad French,
now in childlike English, she recounts all that had
passed at Avonmore between Daubigny and herself, 
how she had suffered him to put his arm around her
waist as they sat on the rocks by the river-side ; how,
as thus they sat, he had drawn from her a promise
of meeting him once again, when they should breathe
their last farewell.

At length Helene comes to the most exciting, the
worst feature in her story. She tells how she listened
for the great clock at Avonmore to strike eleven, how
she saw the sinner glide from the shrubbery. "Ah,
oui," she murmurs, " even now my heart trembles at
the memory. Rochelle s'appuie contre le balcon."

Lord Brailsford during the early part of Helene's
recital had never moved, never raised his head, but as
she murmured forth, " Rochelle est contre le balcon,"
he starts up from his seat. How he looked, what were
his movements at this trying minute she knew not.
She dare not herself lift up her downcast eyes ; her own
agitation was such she noted not that of her companion.

But her task is over, her story is ended. She has
told how our master, as an apparition, suddenly appeared,
to his nephew's dismay and her own shame. She has
even explained how our master had gained the information
that led him to secrete himself and interfere.

By this time Lord Brailsford had again cast himself
down on to a seat, on to an embroidered ottoman that
stood before the girl's escritoire. His elbows rest upon
its velvet desk, his features are hidden from her view.

"You think me a worthless creature, I dare say,"
murmurs she timidly, a few seconds after her recital
had ended.

Lord Brailsford gives no answer.

But indeed, indeed," continues Helene in a voice
full of agitation, " I am all truth, all honesty now.
Never have I deceived my husband. I have indeed
been scrupulously exact from the moment I became
engaged to him."

Then Daubigny misrepresents you damnably," cries
Stephen hoarsely. " Tell me, did you never meet him
at the play ?"

I met him there, indeed ; but on my part the meeting
was purely accidental, and I told Sir Charles on
my return."

And did you tell him all, Lady Daubigny ? Did
you tell Sir Charles of the little souvenir that your
nephew contrived to bestow ? He bade rne challenge
you on this point," continued the young Lord, now
gazing on the girl with eyes that told of passion and
despair. " You wear it."

'Tis true," murmurs Helene tremulously, " he did
leave a little locket in my hand, but indeed I never had
it on. Ever since that night it has been locked up."

He bade me ask you if you wore it," repeats
Stephen.

Look," cries the thoughtless girl, unfastening the
white muslin dressing-gown and closely approaching
Stephen, " see for yourself. Have I it on ?"

Its absence at this moment is no proof."

The girl burst into a passion of tears. " You think
me so full of falsehood," cries she, "that you are at
liberty to doubt my every assertion. You scorn me.
Oh, 'tis very hard that almost the only creature for
whom I have cared, and who seemed to care for me,
should be thus set against me. I was almost a child.
I erred, and shall I find no mercy?"

"Does your husband know you have that locket?"
continued Stephen.

No, he never knew."

And this deception  what is it else ?  can you
justify it? I shall see Daubigny again very soon.
Give me the locket. Let me return it to him and thus
prove that he lies, at least in some degree."

No, no," cries the girl, " I will not. It would but
fan his anger into fiercer life."

Fan his anger into fiercer life !" repeats Stephen.
Have you still, then, so much tenderness for this
drunken reprobate V*

I only mean that your quarrel shall be no act of
mine," cries Helen e.

Say rather," answers Stephen, his features so lit up
by intense feeling that Helene saw before her as it
were the spirit of himself, " say rather that your soul
clings, cleaves to the past ; say that Daubigny, all
fallen, lost as he is, yet holds you captive. You
cherish at least his memory."

No, no, I do not cherish his memory."

But answer me, does not the memory too often
intrude?"

The girl was silent.

I go," said Stephen, seizing his hat and approaching
the door, " I go but too well satisfied. God only knows  "

Helene waited not to hear what further escaped the
young Lord's lips. She started from her chair, she
threw herself between him and the door. " Yes," cries
she, weeping, " it was but right that I should sacrifice
myself ; better, though I lost your regard, your respect,
that I should speak the truth and so end. your quarrel.
Lord Brailsford, answer me, I have a right to demand
it, you will not hesitate now to apologise?"

You need not fear so much," cries Stephen almost
sarcastically and with a bitter smile, "you need not
fear so much, Lady Daubigny, for him. If the worst
come to the worst and harm befall either, that harm
will fall on me. I am no crack shot. Daubigny is
an unerring marksman."

For heaven's sake do not talk this way ! You
cannot mean  Lord Brailsford  "

no ! Of course we shall come to an accommodation,"
answers Stephen with a feigned levity in his
manner ; and again he approaches the door.

Promise me, promise me," cries Helene, in her
eagerness laying a little gipsy hand on Lord Brails-ford's
far whiter one. " Oh ! in mercy, in pity ! For
every one's sake. Oh ! what an effect it would have
on Sir Charles to find you at deadly feud, and I the
cause ! Alas ! and what would the world say of me ?
I would rather die myself now," continues the impetuous
girl in frantic anguish, tears gushing from her
eyes as she spoke. " Oh, my papa, too ! What would
he say ? He who has never known, never suspected
my folly, my falsehood ! Yes, I would rather die !
You cannot be so obstinate, so inhuman, when I have
thus humbled myself by confessing every particle of
truth."

Have you told me every particle of truth ?" asks
Stephen, now turning his gaze full upon the girl and
laying his other hand upon her arm. " I ask you
before God, have you kept nothing back ?"

Suddenly occurs to Helene's mind the three other
encounters she had had with Daubigny, the first in the
passage of their London hotel, the second in the back
parlour of the house at Dover, the third in the copse
at Brierly, and in the midst of agitation and tears she
details these.

There was such an air of truthfulness in the girl's
voice and manner as sentence after sentence broke

from her trembling lips, that whatever had been
Stephen's suspicions they fled.

Do not take this matter so to heart," he murmurs.
Whatever comes of our quarrel I will undertake for
myself, and I believe I may say as much for Daubigny,
whatever comes of our quarrel, its cause shall never
transpire."

Oh, but there must be an end of the quarrel today,
at once," and with all that grace that nature had
bestowed, the girl sinks on her knees before Stephen.
See me," she cries, " the humblest of suppliants. Is
it more humiliating, more cruel for you to have to
apologise to him than it has been for me to have to
tear from obscurity my falsehood and my folly, making
you, you who cared for me last night, detest and scorn
me to-day ?"

Hoarsely and sadly Stephen answered, " Best in
peace. Do not distress yourself. But remember, it is
for you to keep the secret, even from your husband.
Let him not know the cause of my coming  a call,
only a call of civility, that is all," and leaving the girl
even as she knelt on the floor, Stephen fled away.

VOL. III. G

The bell resounds and tells 'tis dinner-time at Brierly.
Our master, much against his will, had been detained
at Guildford, even after the great meeting there was
over. He did not return home till it was just his
usual time for dressing. Hence he had no leisure to
observe his wife until together they sat down at table.

But now he gazes on her with suspicion, with a newborn
fear. He cannot but believe the paleness of her
usually bright complexion is occasioned by the last
night's encounter with his nephew. A frown, which
had been long absent from his soft dark brows, knits
them. His manner is gloomy and distrait, while
Helene smiles but faintly, speaks with effort, and can
scarcely eat a tithe of her usual dinner.

In the presence of old butler and his assistants Sir
Charles does not choose to complain, but following the
little wife immediately after she rises from table, his
expostulation commences almost as soon as she has
seated herself by the drawing-room fire.

And so," says our master, as he stands on the rug
regarding the girl, " and so the patient has suffered a
relapse, and there is perhaps more danger to be apprehended
now from this sickness of the heart than at any

previous stage of the disease." So far Sir Charles had
spoken almost as in raillery, but he could not keep up
the half-playful tone in which he had commenced his
attack. The smile has passed from his lips. A seriousness
is in his manner as he continues : " Of what
avail has been this nattering period of hope, of fancied
security ? In a moment all my reliance, my confidence,
is swept away. He has but to appear, and your very
being sustains a shock. You, who usually have a
colour, to-night have none. Your appetite is gone.
You scarcely speak, or speak with effort."

Indeed," cries Helene, " you are mistaken. My
eating so little does not arise from the sort of thing
you would insinuate, nor did my faintness last night.
When I fainted I had no idea he was in the house. I
feel sick. I feel different from what I ever did in my
life."

If such be the case," cries Sir Charles incredulously,
it is high time that you saw a doctor."

"0 no ! pray do not have a doctor. Perhaps tomorrow
I may be better."

Helene," says our master, " let there be no evasion.
Was it because my nephew crossed your path ? Was
it the memory of the past that so agitated you,  that
now, I should say, so upsets you,  or is it a sensation .11
of bodily illness ? "

I do assure you," murmurs the girl, " that I feel
a kind of something almost like faintness. I feel
oppressed. My heart mutters, my side aches. What
can these ailments have to do with yoitr unfortunate
nephew ? "

Sir Charles is silent. He presently quits the room.
He is, in fact, gone to question Hannah. From what
she says he is better convinced that Helene's ailments
are not merely the effect of agitation. He therefore
determines forthwith to summon a doctor, and writes a
few lines requesting, if possible, a call this evening
from Dr. Softly.

Our master does not return to the drawing-room till
it is just about his tea-time. He returns, however,
much more amiably disposed towards the little wife.
But on entering the room he finds new cause for
anxiety. He sees the girl as he has never yet seen her
after dinner. She is lying at full length on a sofa, and
is fast asleep. He stands by, and he watches, and he
listens to every breath she draws, and he feels certain
that she breathes with less regularity than usual.
Moreover her countenance wears a sad expression, a
shadow seems to rest upon her sun-ripe beauty, even
as a cloud might dim a summer sky.

The tea-tray comes in, borne by one man. Another
follows close upon the heels of his liveried brother
bearing the hissing urn. How the noise these poor
fellows make jars on Sir Charles's nerves ! He holds
up his almost trembling hand. He signs to them to
make no noise, he points to the little wife stretched
on the sofa. In an instant they comprehend. They
know that a note has been despatched to Dr.
Softly, and they walk on tiptoe and disappear as soon
as may be.

Oar master, weary with his unpleasant day at Guildford,
and now almost feverish with anxiety, is glad

of his tea. He had felt too much done up to care for
his dinner ; but tea, in his estimation, is ever a restorative,
a consolation ; and so while the girl sleeps on in
profound unconsciousness, noiselessly he makes the tea,
and is in the act of drinking a second cup when one
of the already warned footmen enters cautiously and
informs his master that the doctor has arrived.

"You can bring him in here," murmurs Charles
Daubigny, a thrill of apprehension running through
every nerve as he speaks.

Helen e, having once fallen asleep, was not soon to
wake. Nature, so tried, must have her way at last.
The girl sleeps that sort of deep heavy sleep that often
follows suffering, whether it be bodily or mental. She
lies on the sofa, Pug by her side, just as a very child
might have lain there. Her white muslin dress, on the
skirt of which Pug reposes, and her blue and silver
sash, are crumpled up anyhow. When she cast herself
down her heart was too full of care for muslin or
ribbon to have a place in her memory. One hand in
her sleep had evidently been wandering amid her
hair, for the arm is still raised and her hair slightly
dishevelled.

There is your patient," says Sir Charles almost ina
whisper to the doctor, as together they stand by the
fire ; and the medical man, turning his eyes in the
direction indicated, for the first time beheld Lady
Daubigny.

Shall I awake her ?" continues our master.

By no means," returns the doctor. " You said in
your note, Sir Charles, that your lady complains of

oppression. I shall have a better opportunity of studying
the breathing while her ladyship slumbers and is
unconscious of my presence."

The doctor accordingly drew nearer to the couch on
which Helene slept. For a minute or two he stood
by it silently regarding the child of earth on whom
nature, as though to make amends for the girl's want
of kindred, had smiled so sweetly.

As long as the doctor stood at a respectful distance
from the couch, as long as he kept in an upright
position, Pug neither moved nor growled ; but with alla
dog's exquisite sensitiveness or wonderful instinct,
Pug knew the doctor to be a stranger, and when the
stranger approached a pace or two nearer to the sleeping
girl, and bent down to listen to her breathing,
Pug's eyes were fire, and he threatened to fly at the
unknown intruder.

The dog's fierce growl and bark instantly awakens
Helene. Unconscious where she is, or who is present,
in saddest accents she exclaims, " Pug, how can you
be so cruel, when I had dropped asleep, and was at
peace, to wake me ! "

Sir Charles, as we know, sensitive to the last degree,
dreading lest any more unconscious words might escape
his wife's lips, with a haste that seldom marked his
movements, instantly interposes betwixt the angry Pug
and the listening doctor.

Helene," says our master, " Dr. Softly is here. He
has called to see you at my desire."

"Oh!" cries the girl, lifting her head from the sofa
cushion ; " how could you send for him without telling

me ? I know nothing about English doctors. I never
spoke to one in my life."

English doctors are not in the least more to be
dreaded than foreign doctors."

Oh, yes, but indeed they are. I have heard papa
say so. I have heard him say they are awful pompous
twaddling creatures. What with Pug startling me out
of my sleep and your doing this, I am past everything,"
and the girl burst into a passion of hysteric tears.

Softly," cries Sir Charles, turning towards the doctor,
of whose presence in the room Helene was yet wholly
unconscious, for when Sir Charles approached the
couch he had glided noiselessly away,  " Softly, here
is evidence that you are especially required. My wife
is not subject to hysterics and passions of tears."

The physician, whose countenance was all benevolence,
whose manner coincided admirably with his
name, now ventures to approach. In accents full of
tenderness he begs her ladyship's pardon for having
intruded without permission.

"Oh!" cries Helene, endeavouring to stay her tears,
it is not your fault. Sir Charles only is to blame."

I see," cries Sir Charles, a little petulantly, " that
I have committed a grievous sin, but, Helene, your
irritability convinces me that the doctor has not been
sent for too soon. I will leave you for a while. My
presence in such a case could only be unpleasant. 
Pug, Pug," whistling the dog, "you must want your
evening run."

Pug was only too glad to stretch his legs. Our
master and the dog disappear, and Helene finds herself

alone with an " awful pompous twaddling English
doctor."

Before we proceed further it may be well to remark
that Dr. Softly, although a resident in the village
nearest Brierly, was no ordinary country practitioner.
"Within the last ten years he had been well known in
London as an eminent ladies' doctor. His health,
however, had so completely broken down that he had
been compelled to make over his fine practice to another,
and seek restoration in perfect quiet and a purer
air. On the small fortune he had inherited, added to
the yet smaller one he had made as a ladies' doctor, he
now lived respectably, and almost in seclusion, yet
never disdaining a proffered fee in exchange for his
experience.

Lady Daubigny is now alone with this man, so skilled
in female ailments. She has to undergo many and
minute inquiries, to which her answers are sometimes
so childish the doctor can scarce maintain a perfect
gravity. We shall not dare enter on the dialogue
between the inexperienced girl and the learned physician.
It will be sufficient for our story to give the
conversation that ensued after the examination was
over,  the conversation between the nervous husband
and his amused neighbour.

The Brierly hall, like the rest of the house, is of fine
proportions, and is luxuriously furnished. Its warmth
does not alone depend on the logwood fire which
blazes cheerfully to-night upon its hearth. Warm air
is admitted through filigreed brazen ornaments inlaid

in its marble floor. Persian carpets stretch between
these warm apertures. Lamps shed an ample light on
every object, useful or decorative, the hall contains,
and by this ample light some of the fine paintings
that adorn its walls, some of them tell their own
story.

Sir Charles, in the gravest anxiety, awaits the
doctor's opinion. He has been pacing up and down
his great hall. He has been trying to sit still by the
blazing fire in the hall, but the conference between his
wife and the doctor seems to occupy so much time, and
his apprehensions so increase as the minutes pass, that
now he stands with his eyes fixed on the drawing-room
door, a prey to acute nervous dread. Helene may be
sickening for measles or scarlatina, both of which in
childhood she had escaped, or she may be on the highroad
to some worse complaint. At length our master
hears the sound he has been so painfully awaiting, he
hears the opening of the drawing-room door, he sees
the doctor emerge, but his smiling countenance gives
no indication of bad news. Doctors, however, always
veil their fears, and inwardly shuddering, Sir Charles
says, " Softly, no bad news ?"

No, indeed," answers Softly, " no bad news. On
the contrary, I must take leave to offer my warmest
congratulations. There is nothing to apprehend. Ladies
under such circumstances are frequently a little hysterical.
The faintness last night may have arisen from
undue pressure. Lady Daubigny admits that she
suffered from the tightness of her dress."

I am scarcely certain that I apprehend your words

aright," broke from our master, while an irrepressible
agitation sends the colour to his temples. " Am I to
expect  "

"About May, I should say," continues the doctor;
"that is, as far as I can collect, but," with a smile,
"your lady, Sir Charles, is so completely uninformed
in such matters  tells me" (with a graver manner)
that she has had the misfortune to lose her mother
in childhood."

Sir Charles sadly bows his head.

Is it wise, my dear sir ? is it well that Lady
Daubigny should have no married person near her?
No one to give her a caution  a hint ?"

Is my wife in a delicate state of health ? Do not,
out of consideration for my feelings, withhold your
opinion."

Lady Daubigny, I believe I may say, is perfectly
healthy, but even the healthiest, most robust women
suffer during the period. We must expect a certain
amount of disarrangement, and, in my opinion, there
should be some one a little experienced in such matters
who could now and then suggest a remedy."

"And will not your advice, your daily or frequent
visits, obviate the necessity ? I should be sorry to have
to displace my wife's present attendant, a very well-conducted
person, of whom you must have some knowledge
 at least so I should imagine  Hannah Wright."

Ah, yes, indeed, her late mistress was long a patient
of mine. Yes, I remember Hannah."

"Well, doctor, I again repeat  that is, with all
deference to your better judgment, I inquire  with

your constant visits  your professional advice  may
we not go on without a change ? Were you not so
near at hand  were you not so experienced, so
eminent  "

The doctor bows, he can scarcely conceal his satisfaction,
but warily he answers, "I should feel some
delicacy ; I might be deemed intrusive."

Your professional visits cannot be deemed intrusive.
However frequent they may be, I shall not complain.
Nay, they will greatly add to my peace of mind."

"Sir Charles," murmurs Softly, "how can I sufficiently
acknowledge your goodness, your confidence ? It
is indeed a balm to a broken-down man like myself.
Lady Daubigny shall have my very best attention," and,
holding out a hand to our poor master, and receiving a
warm, friendly pressure, the doctor seeks his greatcoat,
his woollen scarf  wraps of more than ordinary texture
not that either coat or scarf was heavy and cumbersome,
Dr. Softly possessed 'nothing that was heavy and
cumbersome  his greatcoat and his muffler were of the
lightest, the warmest, the most delectable material.

The doctor's search is in vain. Sir Charles tries to
discover the missing articles, and, while thus engaged,
resumes the subject lately before them : " You feel
assured, Softly, that you cannot be deceived as to the
origin of my wife's ailments."

I feel perfectly assured," replies the doctor. " Every
sentence Lady Daubigny uttered in reference to her
various sensations confirmed my impression. My only
uncertainty is as to the precise period when you may
expect your lady's accouchement."

As the doctor delivers himself of this decided opinion,
St. Amour, like a gliding spirit, appears bearing on his
arm the missing coat and. scarf. He says that one of
the men had moved them by mistake, but the fact is,
he had been behind a curious old carved screen listening,
and had had the doctor's coat and muffler there
too. Not a word of the conversation had escaped the
crafty valet. He was now perfectly assured of that
which he had suspected.

Charles Daubigny was taken by surprise. He had
never contemplated such an evidence of his infatuation.
Ah ! now that the doctor is gone, and he lingers for a
few minutes alone in the hall, he feels the first sting of
remorse, the first wakening of conscience, and that
wakening sends a sharp thrill through his soul and the
colour to his brow.

He knows that he has sinned against the girl. She
had offered him the purest, the holiest of love, and the
very purity, the very holiness of her love had been repugnant
to him. He who had set out by teaching her
to pray to the God of all sanctity had ended by seeking
to corrupt her young heart. How ceaseless had been
his endeavours to wean her from her first, her girlish
passion ! And at length her constancy had failed, and
she had become false to the dictates of nature.

And having conquered, having beguiled, what delusive
happiness the conquest wrought in our poor
master ! His sojourn at Breeds Place had been as a
snatch of bliss rescued from this world of woe. He
forgot the past ; he thought not of the future.

But now, here to-night is set before him a momentous
fact,  a fact to create serious family disarrangement,

dissatisfaction ; and he cannot but shudder himself ashe
contemplates Tresham's possible disappointment.

Nevertheless Charles Daubigny feels that he must
at once face the difficulty, and treat it, if he dare, as a
matter of self-congratulation. Yes, he must return at
once to the drawing-room and speak to Helene cheerfully
of what the doctor has informed him.

That which had been almost as nothing to the
greater part of mankind is to our martyr to sensibility
a severe trial.

Ideas we know can flash through the human mind
rapidly as lightning flashes through the skies. And
now, in the next few fleeting moments, our master is
persecuted by the ludicrous side of the picture. What
will George say ? Of what amiable sarcasms will he
deliver himself in view of the long-depressed and debilitated
invalid coming out in this novel character ?
How will Augusta sneer, and smile, and hint ? And
Holcroft ? what suppressed amusement will the deep
old lawyer indulge in when he discovers there is a
probability of so unlooked-for an arrival !

But our master makes a determined effort to gain an
ascendency over his own unwelcome thoughts, and
enters the drawing-room with a smiling face. Yet the
smile on his lips is contradicted by the paleness of his
cheek, by the anxious expression of his great dark eyes.
It matters not, however, how he looks, for the girl, lost
in mournful reverie, half reclining on the sofa, has her
eyes closed, her face turned to the sofa's back, and even
when Sir Charles approaches and speaks, she does not
alter her position. A hundred contending feelings are

struggling in her young heart, to most of which she
dare not give expression. She listens, indeed, to her
husband's tender rhapsody, to all his reasons for self-congratulation,
but no word he utters wakes in herself
an answering echo.

At length he tells her that God never yet created a
human being, never vouchsafed to endow a soul with
a ray, a beam of his own glory, without a good purpose;
that she may rest assured if he permit a little Daubigny
to be born it should be regarded by her and by
himself as a token of the Almighty's favour.

Hereupon the girl could restrain the vehemence of
her impassioned nature no longer.

You say all this," cries she, " merely to reconcile
me to my position ; but you may as well reason with
the winds. When I was born, was my birth a token
of God's love and mercy to my parents ? Oh, you are
all wrong ! I was but an evidence of my mother's
shame, my father's sin. A soul is created, perhaps,
always for a purpose, but life is given not to bless, but
to wound, to bow the haughty spirit, to bring contrition.
How must Helene Vane have felt when she
heard my first cry or watched my first smile ! You
know she never returned to England, never saw a
relation afterwards."

Sir Charles, on hearing this vehement contradiction
to the comforting suggestion which he had set forth
shuddered, especially as the name of Helene Vane,
so seldom heard, had been pronounced to send even
now a thrill through his whole being. But he
would not give up, and after a moment, recovering

his self-possession, he added, in a voice musical as it
was sad, " And were you not created for good, Helene ?
Where had been your father if that little life, un-welcomed,
undesired, had not been granted ? I firmly
believe his own hand had terminated his existence.
And dear, dearest child, have you not to me been even
as an angel of light ? Until I loved you, I can truly
say I felt indifferent to everything I possessed."

It seems to me," murmurs the girl, with a deep
sigh, " but a sad affair. But how vain are our calculations
! God in mercy may give both child and mother
a grave ; the same hour we may die together, and then
all will be right again."

Helene," cries Charles Daubigny, " I will not have
you indulge in such gloomy forebodings."

No, no," murmurs the girl, weeping, but not passionately.
" No, I ought not. I will try to be better.
But the world is all wrong,  that is, my world. Whereever
I tread are thorns. Think what hatred, anger,
sorrow may come of it."

Sir Charles cast himself on the sofa beside his wife.
He reminded her with the deepest tenderness that
every provision should be made as far as possible to
soften the bitterness of disappointment to him most
concerned. " My child," murmurs our master, " I will
not be unjust. You have nothing to fear from me, for
my unhappy nephew shall not suffer."

Otteley Abbey has been restored to its customary
state of order. No trace is left of the recent masquerading.
Festoons of artificial flowers have fallen

into the laughing housemaids' lap, have been carried
off in their work-a-day Holland aprons. These birth-night
garlands may, perhaps, serve to decorate their
own Sunday bonnets and the hats of the village
children for the next year to come. Festoons of
coloured lamps have been taken down and slyly appropriated
by the village plumber, who bought them with
Lord Bedingfield's own money and set them up at his
expense.

Carpets, or rather Persian rugs, again partially cover
the old oak floor over which the dancers lately lightly
whirled or lounged in idle vanity.

Yes, the Bedingfields' country home wears the same
air of comfort and repose it wore before the birthright
ball, and yet by each of those who love and rule within,
by each of those who bear the name of Leigh, a change is
felt. Fortune, ever whimsical, had claimed that night
of dance and song and revel as her own.

Lord Bedingfield, as by a miracle, has won back his
Lucy. She has forsaken her hovering Cupid, her gewgaw
French bed. She has returned to the region of
buckskins and boots. Like Congreve's Millamant, she
has bidden adieu to her faithful solitude, her darling
contemplation. Wonderful had been the change her
complacency or her submission had wrought upon her
little Lord. His suspicions are lulled, his countenance
wears a kindly smile for every one.

And Georgie, engaged to D'Abridgecourt, may now be
seen wandering with her lover in the park, or loitering
with him alone in the secluded library. What visions
of happiness are arising, what unexpected bliss ! Full

VOL. III. H

of astonishment and delight is the girl at finding that
he who often before the night of the ball had appeared
to her sarcastic, indifferent, almost unkind, now that
the burden that oppressed him is lifted from his
mind, is all that she could desire. For months she
had been doubtful whether he cared for her. She had
flirted with other men, she had said and done provoking
things to try whether thus goaded he would confess his
love. But so great had been his pride, so heavy had
pressed his poverty on his mind, that he had never
under any circumstances cast off his reserve. Yet at
length to her inadvertent folly, which by mankind
might be construed into unblushing audacity, to her
appearance as Phryne the girl owed his confession.
He had been transported out of himself. For the
moment he had forgotten his poverty. He had
showered reproaches, he had declared his hopeless
passion.

And now, as they wander or they loiter together,
Willie ventures to whisper occasionally, and the girl
blushes at Its new-born audacity. Yes, he dares to
whisper that the name of Phryne for him will have an
undying charm.

And the Countess gazes upon the young lovers, and
involuntarily indulges in mournful reverie. The
happiness of her daughter awakes sad remembrances
of her own girlhood, of her own short-lived and secret
engagement with Desmond de St. Brie. Lucy's lively
spirits are subdued. That interview in the underground
chamber, the impassioned, the enduring attachment
of the isolated priest, the news he gave her of his

probable change of fortune, are such things as must
dwell in her mind.

Lucy even forgets to tease her little Lord. Perhaps
for the first time in her life she is pensive, she is
passive.

We have yet to touch on Stephen, we have yet to
show what the turn of fortune's wheel had wrought for
him. He had been living in a state of wild delusion.
He had been hoping, nay, he had brought himself to
believe that Helene, wedded almost in her childhood to
a man old enough to be her father, could never have
experienced such love as lovers feel. He had been
vain enough to imagine that he himself might be
destined to awaken in her unpractised heart a passion
responsive to his own. His hope and his vanity lay
now crushed and dead. And this was not all. Daubigny,
full of suspicion, would not let their quarrel rest,
and an intimation very lately received from Monsieur
St. Amour had so deepened the suspicions of the heir-expectant,
had so added to his distraction, there was no
chance of escape from his malice.

'Tis the afternoon of a November day, the sun, that had
shone but feebly, fitfully during the morning, is dispelling
the white mist now. A ray of softened glory
rests on the abbey's western walls, and tints how
beautifully many a majestic half-stripped tree and
many a grassy knoll within the park.

D'Abridgecourt, who delights in out-door life, has
persuaded the Lady Georgina that a walk in this
gleam of sunshine will do her good, and dressed in a
sort of russet suit, the girl at this moment descends
with him the old oak stairs. How clear, how musical,
how happy sounds her vice as laughingly she discourses
with her lover !

On reaching the hall she finds Stephen apparently
loitering idly in it.

Oh, Brailsford," cries she, " mamma says you are off
to a book-sale in Paris. Will you do me a little favour?
Will you get me a new French novel ; two if you
can?"

Stephen gazes on his happy sister, and answers
somewhat vaguely, " Yes, if I have time."

The girl and her fianct pass out of the hall door.
Lord Brailsford stands a moment or two painfully

regarding them. Then, with a sigh, he turns away, and
slowly, sadly approaches the door of his father's apartment
 an apartment, or rather an office, into which he
seldom ventured to intrude unbidden. Lord Springfield
unfortunately made a great distinction between
his two children. He loved Georgie intensely; for
Stephen he felt but a faint affection. His daughter
might take any liberty unrebuked ; to his son he often
dealt out a harsh word, and never gave more than a
civil greeting.

The small room into which Stephen's pressing difficulties
precipitate him is in fact an office where Lord
Bedingfield transacts a vast deal of business, which to
most men occupying so dignified a position would have
been irksome and uncongenial to the last degree. And
we believe that the Earl himself felt conscious that the
rustic pursuits to which he devoted his whole existence
were beneath him. He had a certain degree of sensitiveness
on this point, and he neither expected nor
desired a visit from any of his own family, or from any
of his guests or equals in this agricultural closet. Little
sample bags of wheat or other grain, may, at any time,
be found lying on the table, or a grazier's letter, or a
veterinary surgeon's. A file with bills on it is always
visible, and the whole walls of the small apartment
are covered with portraits of his favourite and famous
horses, or his still more famous kine.

There is, however, but one picture in his Lordship's
closet of value. It is placed over the mantelpiece, and is
the production of the greatest animal painter of the day.
It represents Solomon, the king of the herd, in all his

glory. Yes, there stands in proud and regal beauty the
thousand-guinea bull, of which Lucy professes to be
jealous.

But Lord Brailsford must not be kept longer at the
door by perhaps tiresome description. He turns the
handle, he enters the room, he approaches his father,
who is writing.

Well, Brailsford," says the great agriculturist, suspending
his writing operations and looking on the
young Lord with scarce suppressed surprise and
annoyance, " your visit to me here means business, I
suppose ?"

I am very sorry to trouble you, sir' murmurs
Stephen, his green eyes happily cast down, " but I
really have come to ask you for something."

Money," cries his Lordship, " of course."

Well, yes, indeed," answers Stephen nervously.
u Mamma, you know, usually supplies my wants, but
she declares she has not a sou left. This miserable
revelry or merry-making on my account has cleaned her
regularly out, and she says the money you give her
monthly is not due for six days."

Won-direful!" cries Lord Bedizened, laughing and
leaning back in his chair ; " won-direful that Lucy
should re-member when her money is due."

My mother asked me to wait till then, but, sir, I
cannot. I have, perhaps thoughtlessly, promised to be
on the other side the Channel before."

And ' pray," says the Earl, " may I take leave to
inquire what bu-shyness so sud-densely carries you from
Otteley?"

"A mere literary transaction," answers Stephen,
avoiding his father's gaze and blushing like a girl, " a
sale of rare old books. I have a particular desire to get
hold of one of them."

"When you first showed yourself, Stephen," remarked
his Lordship in a less acrid tone of voice, " when you
first came in, I tell you can-did-ly I had a different
im-pression of the bu-shyness that brought you here.
I thought you had looked in upon me here, where we
were sure to be un-molested, to give me a hint or a
re-minster that it was time I made you a suitable
al-low-ance. I am not forgetful, Brailsford, but 'tis an
awkward time. Georgie's en-gage-ment ; I suppose
these young lovers won't want to wait. I shall have
to bring out something con-sid-er-able for the marriage.
It 's, you see, an awkward time."

Oh, I assure you," cries Stephen, " I never thought
of such a thing. I never contemplated any change.
I have very little care for money, except now and
then. And this evening, if you will be so kind, sir,
if you can let me have sufficient for my purpose."

What is it to be ?" asks his Lordship, bringing out
his cheque-book from the old-fashioned bureau before
which he sat.

"You will think me very troublesome," murmurs
Stephen, " but I would rather not have a cheque. I am
such a fool about business, I do not understand cheques."

Time you did then, my good fellow."

I dare say, but I never was in a bank. I never
saw a banker in my life. Can you, sir, give me gold
or notes ?"

Do you think then, Stephen, that I keep bushels of
gold and rolls of notes at Otteley ? Let me see " (pulling
out a yellow canvas bag), " I have not here " (as he
counts) " more than five-ands twenty sovereigns. Three
ten-pound notes, I remember, are in my pocket-book
that 's in my greatcoat pocket, there, there on the chair
by the fire. There, just hand the coat to me. There"
(taking out the notes), "that'll be fifty-five."

Yes, sir."

That won't do, I should say. These old books are
d  ex-pensive. It isn't enough."

I dare say, yes, I suppose," answers Stephen sadly.

Don't say yes and mean no. Dixon has thirty
sovereigns, I know. I gave them to him to pay the
men. Go tell him I desire you to have them."

No," answers Stephen in a voice that was strange
and sad, "no, I shall do as I am. Say one kind
word," he added, holding out his hand, " and presently
I shall be off."

What ! without your dinner ?"

Yes," says Stephen, once more holding out his
delicate, womanish hand, which was clasped in his
father's, once as small, but now swollen and red.

Brailsford," cries Lord Bedingfield, gazing upon his
son's wan, nay, almost deathlike countenance, " you 'rea
strange fellow. I can't conceive how any ra-tindal
being can be in such a devil of a hurry about an old
book. There 's nothing wrong in the wind, eh ? "

Stephen answered, "Wrong! how can there be?"
He had reached the door.

Take my word for 't, Steely," cries his father in a

kindlier tone than usual, " you 'd better stay where you
are, and leave the d  book alone.

'Tis breakfast time at Otteley. Lord Bedingfield,
although of late grown so corpulent, is still a very
early riser. It is his custom every day to mount his
favourite horse, and make a tour of inspection before
breakfast. So often it happens that Lucy has opened
and read her own letters before her husband appears.
This morning old Marston, who chose to make it his
business to open the letter-bag and bear its contents to
the breakfast-room, this morning old Marston conveys
on a little silver waiter to his mistress one single
letter. One single letter, but worth to her how many
dozens of other letters, for it is in the handwriting of
Desmond de St. Brie. How throbs the woman's heart as
she tears it open ! The unquenched flame of passion rises
once more in her bosom. She can only expect that the
priest renews his daring, his sinful proposal. Scarce,
however, has she read a line when the colour fades from
her cheek. Her eyes, her sweet blue eyes, are opened
wider than usual, and amazement is printed on every
feature. Thus looked the Countess when her Lord,
having returned from his tour of inspection, enters the
room.

Oh, Everard !" she exclaims or rather groans as the
Earl draws to the table. He looks up, he sees his
Lucy breaking into a passion of tears.

"What is the matter?" he asks in more than
surprise.

Head, read, read for yourself," cries the ever

thoughtless Lucy, casting de St. Erie's letter down
before her husband.

This fellow writing ! the priest ! and ad-dressing
you as his dearest Lucy. Why do you give me the
letter, Madam?"

"Why do I give you the letter?" cries she wildly;
to read. Why do you not read it ? my poor love,
my hope !"

Madam, are you insane ? Do you dare use such expressions
in con-section with Desmond de St. Brie ?"

It is not about Desmond I am speaking," cries Lucy,
it is about my poor Stephen. That horrid young Daubigny
has quarrelled with him, has almost killed him.

Hereupon Lord Bedingfield, with a trembling hand,
takes the obnoxious letter up again (much as if it had
been an adder) and reads.

Had you any con-seriousness of the reason Brails-ford
left home ?" he asks. " I re-member being
struck by his manner."

"Consciousness!" exclaims Lucy, "good heavens,
no ! I should assuredly have told you had I dreamt of
his purpose."

"How could the poor crazy lad have got himself
into such a devil of a mess ? And then, of all people in
the world, to seek as-distance from that man. What
could have led Stephen to expect sym-partly in him ?
Perhaps, Madam, you can suggest some reason ?"

None in the world," cries Lucy. " Stephen certainly
asked me if my cousin still remained where he
was, and I answered yes. But what was there in such
a question?"

And pray, Madam, may I take leave to inquire how
you knew where St. Brie ex-excised his priest-craft ?
It is more than two whole years, as far as I know,
since you have met. Such knowledge, Madam, revives
my sus-pinion. Coming to" Dover with the poor
wounded fool. ' If we find no letter a-waiting us at
The Ship " to stay our progress, we shall continue the
journey on to Otteley.' Am-az-ing-ly cool ; in-tolerable
in-silence. I will have none of his inter-terence.
By God, Madam, I will write myself and inform your
cousin that lie may stay at ' The Ship,' but that I will
provide a nurse and a doctor and a carriage for the
wretched lad who  "

Write," cries Lucy, weeping (it was well she did
not rouge before breakfast), " write," cries Lucy, " yes,
every word you have uttered, and I myself will be the
bearer of your letter. Yes, since Desmond, after all
his tenderness to my son, may not enter your doors,
I myself will go and fetch Stephen and acknowledge.
. . ."

Go, Madam, if you will. But pray, return not here.
Let our separation, in God's name, be per-magnet."

I thank you, my Lord," cries Lucy, drying her
tears, and standing proud, erect, disdainful. You have
now yourself broken all that held us together. I will
not be slow to avail myself of your permission."

And Lucy is gone. In her fierce anger, awakened
by her husband's ingratitude to Desmond, his evident
suspicion of herself, she loses sight of all prudence.
She rings for Celine, bids her pack up her clothes.
She orders the carriage, then remembering poor

Stephen's deplorable condition, she suddenly stays
Celine in her packing and bids her fetch in the head
coachman. With him she has a brief discourse. She
tells him of his young master's accident, that she is
going to Dover to meet the invalid, that she must, for
his accommodation, have the family travelling carriage
and four post-horses.

Scarcely, however, had Lucy left the breakfast-room,
when the Lady Georgina enters it. She has come
i down late. Willie's leave expires to-day ; he had been
compelled to quit Otteley late last night. No lover to
greet the girl at . breakfast time, she had not cared to
hasten over her morning toilet.

The Earl, 0*1 finding his daughter in the room, reads
to her a portion of De St. Brie's letter, adding, as he
finishes reading, that to himself the whole affair is inexplicable.
No part of it more " in-solved in mystery
" than how a quarrel could have arisen between
Daubigny and Stephen.

Oh, papa!" cries Georgie, after bewailing her
brother's misfortune, "oh, papa, though you are so
entirely in the dark, I fancy I can let in a little light.
You remember, don't vqu, the promised token, how
I offended Stephen? and I have never forgotten the
initials, H. G. G. D."

"But what has that to do with young Daubigny?"

I fancy a great deal. Sir Euthyn Pell knows a
young fellow whose sisters witnessed a very singular,
a very suspicious scene once at the play between
young Daubigny and H. G. G. D. Depend upon it,
papa, it's our mysterious, little, gipsy-like neighbour

who 's at the bottom of the mischief. You never notice
these things ; but even Willie, little disposed as he is to
criticise, thinks she 's turned Stephen's brain."

My dear girl," murmurs Lord Bedingfield, " pray
be cautious. You do not know what trouble and perplexity
the in-considerate whispers of tale-bearers
bring about."

Oh ! I shan't speak of it if I can help myself,"
cries Georgie. " But where 's mamma ? "

You may well ask," cries the Earl. " Georgie, I 'm
sorry to say your mother has been quarrelling with me,
or rather, perhaps, I ought to say, I have grievously
of-fenced her. She insists on going off to Dover to
meet the crazy lad and  and the priest."

"Well, and why should you object, papa?"

Lord Bedingfield shrugs his shoulders, "but answers
nothing.

Surely," continues Georgie, " at such a time you
did not say anything unkind to mamma ?"

Hasty," mutters his Lordship, "just go, my love,
and see what she 's about,  whether she really does
intend, contrary to all reason . . ."

Georgie waited not to hear the finish of the sentence.
Like an arrow from a bow the girl darted off to find
her mother, not in the connubial chamber where first
she ran, but in that pretty Frenchified apartment
which but so lately the Countess had vacated.

Lucy has sunk into a chair before her toilet-table.
One hand is supporting her head. She is weeping.
She is agitated to the last degree.

Oh, mamma," cries Genie, " I am indeed so

grieved for poor Stephen ! Papa says you are going to
meet him."

"And what else has my Lord said?" asked Lucy.
Has he told you why ? Has he told you that he
threatens to write to my cousin Desmond and order
him not to intrude here ?"

No, indeed ! "

And this is the reason we have quarrelled, Georgie "
(with a fresh burst of tears), " your father has ordered
me to keep away altogether."

Nonsense," cries Georgie, unenlightened as to the
depth of Lord Bedingfield's jealousy.

It is indeed so."

Georgie hereupon flies back to her father. " Papa,"
cries the girl in fear and trembling, " mamma is getting
ready to start. She says that you have desired her
to stay away altogether. What can have happened ?
Oh, papa, how sad ! You do not know how happy it
made me to see you both  " The girl wept herself so
she could not speak.

I am the most d  d un-fortunate man God ever
created," broke in half suffocated tones from the noble
Earl, from him who owned the finest estate and the
loveliest of wives in all the county.

You had better go to mamma at once," cries
Georgie, " and see for yourself how wretched your
thoughtless words have made her."

Hereupon the corpulent little man arises, and takes
some uneasy strides about the room, his head held as
high as ever it will go, absolutely bringing the little
dimpled chin clean out of the roll of white neckcloth.

Georgie watches her father in great apprehension.
She had never before seen him disturbed and indignant
as he is now. The connubial combats had hitherto
been conducted with discretion. The girl knows the
power she herself possesses over him, and in another
moment her arms are around the roll of white neckcloth,
and kissing the forehead knitted into a frown,
she asks if he intends to blast the happiness he had
but so lately led her to expect, and which she but
yesterday thought so secure.

For indeed," she murmurs, " if mamma and you
really quarrel, I can have no happiness with Willie ;
and oh, dearest papa, what a scene for him when next
he comes ! You here alone, mamma gone !"

Child," cries the Earl, " I do not con-tem-plate such
a future. Do you think I should make an exhibition
of myself under such circumstances ? Dam-nation
 death  an-ni-hi-la-tion rather. Where is she?"

I found mamma in the French room where she
used to sleep."

What ! already flown ?" cries he, and this first step
towards a " permanent separation " sends a goad to his
heart, and gives unwonted activity to his Lordship's
top-booted legs, his yet spurred heels. In haste he
seeks his wife in the pretty apartment where but so
lately they had made up their old quarrel. On entering
it, he finds Mademoiselle Celine on her knees packing.
He detests the French maid ; he bids her leave the
packing for the present and " go." His Lordship will
have no delay ; he holds the door open with one hand,
with the other makes an impatient gesture for the

woman's departure. Celine having disappeared, the
Earl, scarcely knowing himself how best to proceed to
recapture the fierce little dove whose cage door unwittingly
he had opened, in no little trepidation approaches
the toilet-table before which his Lucy still
sits. " Lucy," he murmurs, " Lucy ;" but Lucy answers
nothing, while the big tears roll anew down her yet un-rouge
cheeks. He ventures nearer. "Lucy, do you
hear me ? I protest against this un-necessary, this
im-prescient step you are about to take. When have
you ever travelled alone un-protected ? You must
not go to Dover."

"Did you not bid me go and stay away?" cries
Lucy, weeping like a very child.

Bid you go, love ? God of Heaven, no ! 'Twas you
said you would go ; and then, hastily, indeed, I answered
that in such a case you had best stay away."

For ever !" cries she ;" and why did I say I would go ? "

I confess, my dear, that I showed some temper, that
I spoke has-tilly, perhaps un-advisedly. Yes, your
cousin Desmond has shown ap-patiently a perfect 
in this affair, and he shall, as you
desire, receive a due measure of courtesy at my hands.
Lucy, of the two evils I will en-devour pa-tient-ly to
endure the least. When an affliction is hanging over
us, the ter-migration of which none may foresee, I
think, my dear, under such sad circumstances, I need
not fear. Would you, who love your son so passionately,
would you dare by any act of le-vi-ty to make
the cloud denser wherein the Al-mighty has at this
present moment as it were veiled himself from us ?"

Lucy did love her son passionately. Her heart was
touched by her husband's forbearance and tenderness.
Conscience told her that the cloud betwixt herself and
the Almighty was already dense enough, and when
Lord Bedingfield continued his discourse, showing his
readiness immediately to send a carriage and servants
to meet his son on landing at Dover, and added that
he would not object to receive the priest, the little dove
suffered herself once more to be coaxed back into the
connubial cage.

VOL. III.

Has it ever been your fate, my reader, to have been
sojourning in a dwelling-house, when fell a day, marked,
remembered by the inmates of that house as one of the
saddest and most memorable in life's calendar, by
reason that on that day was held in that house a consultation
of surgeons over a difficult, a dangerous case,
concerning one beloved ?

If such accidentally has been my reader's experience,
no need for me to dwell on the heart-sick anxiety of
those how deeply interested, for at Otteley to-day is
in progress such a grave affair.

Two pure surgeons of the highest repute have
travelled down from London to be received at the abbey
by Dr. Softly, by a French surgeon who crossed with,
who has attended Lord Brailsford from the first moment
of his misfortune, and by Desmond de St. Brie, who
still lingers by the sick man's couch. The business,
the errand upon which these two first-class surgeons
have arrived, is to make a minute examination of the
wound inflicted, according to the law of duels, by Captain
Daubigny on Stephen Leigh, Lord Brailsford, and after
due investigation of the said wound, it will be their
further business to determine when and in what

manner the inevitable operation shall be by them performed
upon the wounded limb ; a portion of a shivered
bone and a bullet yet remaining imbedded in the flesh,
have each to be removed or the worst consequences
may ensue. To the uninitiated it may seem strange,
nay, almost incredible, that Lord Brailsford should have
attempted to, should have desired to, cross the Channel
in the wretched state to which his antagonist's fire had
reduced him. But Stephen Leigh was inherently, incurably
romantic or unreasonable. He himself had no
expectation of recovery ; he counted only on death, and
he desired to die at Otteley. No persuasion of the
priest, no opinion delivered by the French surgeon could
make the slightest impression. His heart was set upon
returning home, and home he would go at any risk.
And so indifferent apparently had he been to life, or so
lethargic as to threatening danger, that not until he
had been several days at Otteley could any one induce
him to have sent for, the two famous surgeons whose
handling, whose tender mercies were so imperatively
required.

We have said that as long as Dr. Softly had remained
a resident in London, his practice had been extensive,
particularly amongst women. Did we add amongst
women moving in the highest circles ? In his long
experience he had been led to believe that the mind,
the heart, the passions there engendered are frequently
the origin of female indisposition. Acting on this
belief, he had got into a way of observing, of scrutinising
the countenances of his patients. In fact, by long study
he had acquired a disagreeable facility, an almost

dangerous power of reading the human heart by external
signs. And to his sagacity we suspect might be
mainly attributable Lord Brailsford's amended condition
of mind.

It was found after one of Dr. Softly's professional
visits, that Stephen no longer objected to the London
surgeons being sent for. The priest announced to Lucy
the hopeful change. Stephen had told him that the
surgeons might come, that he consented to submit to
the required examination.

Now, let us see whether we can trace out how this
change of feeling has arisen in the young Lord ; let
us see if it has not been the mysterious work of our
gentle gliding doctor. Has he not managed by some
necromancy to pour balm into his patient's wounded
heart? And the heart cheated, flattered, lightened,
somewhat lightened of its burden of despair, " the
poor lad," as Lord Bedingfield always now designates
the wounded man, " the poor lad " listens to reason.

We have somewhere before mentioned that Sir
Charles had desired Dr. Softly to pay a professional
visit daily at Brierly. Of course in these visits the
doctor had spoken to Helene of the wretched condition
in which Lord Brailsford lay. On one occasion he had
particularly alluded to the deep dejection of mind under
which his Otteley patient laboured. The girl's own
soul was full of anguish, full of apprehension, though
perhaps the deeper sorrow she experienced was for the
sinner, who, untouched, unscathed himself, remained
yet abroad waiting, as he wrote, " to see how the Otteley
affair would end." It matters little, however, to our

story what was the exciting cause, we have only to
show that as the doctor concluded his account of poor
Stephen's indifference, apathy, and carelessness of
threatening danger, Helene wholly lost her self-command
and broke into an ungovernable passion of tears.
The wily physician, skilled in deciphering the mysteries
of the female mind, as intently he watched the girl
during this outbreak of nature, read the anxiety, the
misery she hitherto had managed to conceal.

On the other hand, in his oft-repeated visits to the
abbey, the doctor had more than once observed Lord
Brailsford's awakened attention if accidentally the
words Brierly or Daubigny were named before him, and
therefore by way of experiment he resolved to give his
Lordship on his next professional visit a narration of
Helene's sympathy and tears.

He had not foreseen the effect of his communication.
It surpassed his utmost expectation, and on the instant
he made a mental memorandum, determining presently
to turn to good account the knowledge he had gained.

Hence when paying next day his customary visit at
Brierly, our doctor softly indeed hinted his belief.
Pardon me, Lady Daubigny," whispers he, " but from
certain observations I have made, from a little scene I
yesterday witnessed, I must say that I believe you have
the poor young fellow's destiny in your hands. Can
you not afford to bestow some small token of your
interest, some words of compassion, of encouragement ?
Bid him take heart and live. We hold out but one
hope ; bid him submit to our dictation." Helene listened
in surprise, in silence, in dismay. She answered

nothing, and. the doctor continued his discourse. " My
theory," pursues he, " is that the mind is the governing
principle, its power is infinite, supreme. Experience
has taught me that depression of mind is the worst
enemy we medical men have to fight against. I am
called in to attend Lord Brailsford ; I find him so
depressed as to be utterly careless of the means of
resuscitating life. I place myself by the sofa on which
he reclines, I. converse on various subjects; I can make
no impression, I create no interest until I happen to
mention that I am in daily attendance at Brierly.
His weakness for the moment is gone, he raises himself
up, he asks who is my patient. I pronounce your
name. The colour comes to his cheek, his eye brightens.
He is ready to speak, he listens with eager attention.
Lady Daubigny, am I not right; if my theory be a
correct one, am I not right ? A message, a few words
of tenderness, even a few flowers."

Helene felt perplexed, disturbed, nay, even distressed.
She knew not what to do ; she dreaded getting into a
new dilemma.

"Lady Daubigny," whispers the doctor as he sat
watching the girl, and read in her troubled countenance
the disturbance of her mind, "Lady Daubigny, you
may trust to my discretion. Whatever confidence you
may be pleased to repose in me shall be a secret to the
day of my death."

There is nothing whatever," answers Helene a little
haughtily; "there never has been, I assure you, Dr.
Softly, between Lord Brailsford and myself, but regard,
friendship

On your part," whispers the doctor impressively,
gazing as he spoke searchingly on the girl; "but  "
he paused.

Helene coloured, but steadily she answered, " Indeed
you are mistaken if you fancy I am conscious that Lord
Brailsford has feelings for me of a nature to be a secret,
and if he had, he would not presume . . ."

Pardon me," cries the doctor, " pardon me, Lady
Daubigny, but the intense agitation I witnessed, the
interest he manifests, causes me to be unshaken in my
belief. You have a power over his Lordship none other
has. Beg of him to use the means we prescribe. Tell
him his life is precious to you. That is all I suggest."

And how can I do it ?" cries Helene, rising from her
seat with a sigh of perturbation.

"Nothing easier. Send him by my hand a little
bouquet of flowers. Let the paper folded round the
nosegay contain a few words of kindness. Say that
you beg, you entreat he will listen to reason."

Oh ! Dr. Softly," cries Helene, unable to resist a
little laugh, " I see you are an arch contriver."

My dear Lady," says the doctor, smiling and bowing
with a courtly air, " in my former years of practice I
have indeed been occasionally, I confess, a contriver,
but always with a view to a good end."

Remember," says Helene, still perturbed, " if I am
doing a wrong thing, my error will be attributable to
yourself."

Indeed," murmurs the doctor, " indeed, Lady
Daubigny, I am perfectly sensible that such is the
case, and quite ready to bear the blame."

Well, then," cries the girl, rising and moving
towards her escritoire, " well, then, I am going to
write, and then, when I have written, you must go with
me to the conservatory to get some flowers."

And Helene, with trouble printed on her young
brow, writes 

"My soul is overwhelmed with apprehension, by
reason of the news I daily hear of thine indifference to
life, and thy disregard of the doctor's counsel. Dost
thou desire to crush me quite ?

"Wilt thou die to make this world for me more
dreadful than the darkness, the horror of the grave to
which thou thyself art hastening ? Once more, I sue
to thee for pity. But ah ! when thou hast been
inexorable to my former prayer, why should I hope
now to influence thee to be reasonable ?

May dreams be accepted as omens ? Listen then.
But last night I dreamt of thee, a sweet, a strange fantastic
dream. It seemed not of the present; it seemed to
be of the future. Thyself, as I have always known thee,
yet thyself, invested with angelic holiness and beauty,
wandered beside me amid the waving summer grass,
the wild sweet woodland flowers ; the tall boughs
formed an arch above us, shading the brightness of the
noontide sun.

I send my little note folded round some flowers ;
for aught I know, thou mayest cast both my offerings
away in contempt, in disdain."

The girl had written the very truth. She had
indeed but the night before dreamt the very dream she
described. She did not care to show to her companion

that which she had written ; but as she rose from the
escritoire, invited him to proceed with her to the conservatory.


There culling some sprays of white Indian jessamine
and some lovely exotic lilies, she folds the written
paper round their stalks, then suddenly, childlike, she
exclaims, "But how will he know that there is any
writing on the paper ? "

Trust me for that," answers the doctor with another
stately bow, as from Helene's little gipsy hand he
receives the flowers.

Dr. Softly's close carriage awaits him at the Brierly
hall door. In a few minutes he has stepped into it,
and is on his way to the abbey. We need scarcely
say that, as he is driven slowly along for he has
ordered his coachman to drive slowly  we need scarcely
say that thus, in the privacy of his small chariot, he
takes the liberty of unfolding the written paper Helene
had twisted round the flower-stalks. The paper is
unfolded ; the words are before him ; he even puts on
his gold spectacles, but it is all to very little purpose.
Sagacious as he is, crafty as he is, he cannot decipher
the meaning of Lady Daubigny's words. The little
note is a perfect enigma to him. Never had his
curiosity been more excited, never had it been so
completely baffled.

On arriving at Otteley, as he comes professionally,
Dr. Softly may reach Lord Brailsford's apartment without
question or interruption, if it pleases him so to do ;
and to-day he glides in, he approaches the couch on
which the sick man lies without encountering any one

but " the poor lad's" valet. After noiselessly depositing
his hat and his gold-headed cane on one chair, he seats
himself on the next ; his fingers are presently on the
sufferer's pulse. Now is his time. He tells his patient
that he has just left Brierly ; that Lady Daubigny feels
the most intense sympathy ; that by his hands she
sends some flowers ; that in the wrapper around the
flowers he saw her write some expressions of her deep
concern. What a start ! what a flutter of the pulse does
the doctor's communication occasion ! He could keep
his fingers no longer on his Lordship's wrist ; but he
could perhaps do more for the gratification of his
curiosity by using his eyes. The flowers had been
deposited in the crown of the doctor's hat ; he reaches
them, he gives them to his patient, and then, with that
winning delicacy, that priceless consideration which
seemed a part of his nature, the doctor takes up a book
and pretends to be intently examining it. Was he
examining the book ? Ah, no ! While the hapless
Stephen himself was so intent on reading Helene's
words, while he was so agitated by them that his hand
trembled as he held the written paper, Dr. Softly was
craftily glancing. Could the sinister old man be mistaken
? No. The flushed cheek, the trembling hand,
the excited eye, told, despite of Helene's contradictory
words, that she had in her hands the destiny of the
wounded Viscount.

If that day is sad when the surgeons pay their first
visit, how much more sad is that on which they pay
their second, their pre-arranged visit  when that is
actually to be done which previously had been but
contemplated. As the Countess hears the sound of the
carriage-wheels, as she hears the tramp of the horses,
as she hears each sound suddenly cease, and knows that
the surgeons have arrived, she becomes so oppressed
with dread that she has no power to speak, and her very
lips are pale. It is an ill wind that blows no one any
good; and Lord Brailsford's danger has worked marvels
on our Lucy. That pale cheek has carried no rouge for
days and days. The practised hand at the soul's
bidding refuses to do its office  is arrested by what
some would call superstitious fear. The lover of Lady
Bedingfield's girlhood is dwelling in the same house
with herself, but apprehension chases from her soul its
impassioned sin, and the lips that for years have
scarce uttered a heart felt prayer, supplicate now for
undeserved mercy in every interval of retirement, in
the wakeful hours of the night.

Lord Bedingfield,the Countess, and the Lady Georgina
are gathered together in the morning-room, in order

there to see the two surgeons before they go up-stairs
to their cruel work. They had not been introduced to
the young Lord's noble relatives on their first visit ; the
priest and Dr. Softly had met them then. But little as
Lord Bedingfield loves Stephen, yet to-day, when so
grave an affair is to be enacted, and under his own roof,
he feels it to be his duty to see the surgeons, and with
his own hand conveys to theirs the enormous fee they
ask for coming to Otteley.

The Earl has bidden old Marston be in the way ready
to introduce these two famous operators ; and now the
old man, with a trembling hand, opens the morning-room
door. Ah ! how the mere turning of the door handle,
the opening of the door, sickens poor Lucy's heart, and
makes even the stronger-minded Georgie shudder.

But here they are.

Sir Maxwell Murchieson, who enters first, is the
surgeon in highest repute ; he is the great operator of
the day.

In figure Sir Maxwell is gaunt and tall, his countenance
certainly forbidding. He has a nose like an
eagle's beak, a skin hard-looking, dry, and brown, his
forehead is lofty and well-shaped, his cheek-bones high
and prominent. He is spare of his words, cautious in
giving an opinion, rather awkward in manner. A
certain something about him, it may be in his manner
of speaking, betrays his Scottish origin. Sir Maxwell's
friend and companion, Mr. Home Tracy, is a great contrast.
Small and delicate in form, kindly in manner,
with a hand soft and white as a woman's, a voice all
harmony, an almost inconsiderate readiness in using

it, who that saw Mr. Home-Tracy could suppose such
a man enamoured of a pure surgeon's practice ? His
present business appears to be to supply words  to act
as a kind of interpreter to his stiff er and more ungainly
friend.

"Your son, my Lord," says Mr. Home-Tracy, a
gentle smile playing on his lips as he speaks, " your
son has with difficulty, I understand, been induced to
submit himself to our hands. 'Tis his misfortune to
have delayed using the means of recovery so long. Of
course delay has aggravated the symptoms. The
operation we contemplate is, in Sir Maxwell's opinion,
the only remedy, save that graver one we resort to only
in the last extremity."

"A dan-serious case?" asks Lord Bedingfield, drawing
his chin a little out of his white neckcloth and turning
his eyes from the loquacious to the taciturn surgeon.

Sir Maxwell shrugs his shoulders and smiles grimly.
An ugly wound, my Lord, a bad fracture. With
your leave, my Lord, I reserve my answer until I see
further."

"You see, my Lord," puts in the bland, smiling
Home-Tracy, " this grievous delay has rendered the
case more serious."

Will the op-erastian you have induced Brailsford
to consent to, will it occasion the poor lad very considerable
suffering?" continues Lord Bedingfield, still
addressing Sir Maxwell Murchieson.

Very considerable, I should say," answers Sir
Maxwell, unmoved himself as a block.

Will the op-erastian occupy much time ?" pursues

the Earl, his eyes still turned upon the ungainly
Scotchman.

Cannot say, my Lord. I should hope not," replies
Sir Maxwell, and there is in his tone of voice almost a
forbidding chilliness, while his lips are so tightly closed
they seem determined not again to open.

We count, my Lord, by minutes, by seconds," says
the softly-spoken Tracy by way of elucidation. " My
friend here is held to be a marvel of coolness, courage,
and despatch."

Sir Maxwell is by no means insensible to praise.
He bows his gaunt figure, he once more opens his tight-set
lips, and says, awkwardly enough, " I trust in this
case I may not belie the reputation my friend ascribes."
Here the great man pauses, pulls out his watch.
"Tracy," he says, "suspense is bad. My Lord, we
shall be expected ; we must not linger."

Hereupon Lord Bedingfield shakes hands with the
two famous surgeons, conveying to them at the same
time the fee demanded.

Because I have not yet mentioned it, let not my
reader suppose that the duel between Captain Daubigny
and Lord Brailsforcl has created no sensation.
There have been, and there still are paragraphs in the
papers affecting to throw light on the subject.

Coming so immediately after the great rejoicing and
gaiety at Otteley, taking place between two people
who apparently should have no cause of quarrel, the
warlike encounter wears an unusual air of mystery.
Especially piquant is the affair to the inquisitive and

the gossip-loving, for the reason that each of the belligerents
continues to maintain a resolute silence as to
the source, the origin of his disagreement.

Then the rank, the position of the parties concerned ;
the one heir to an earldom, the other heir-presumptive
to a time-worn baronetcy. Does not this accidental
distinction (for the many) cast a halo of light or rather
a tinsel glory around the brows of the two fiery youths
concerned ?

Then, again, what perhaps adds further to the interest
excited, is the wide difference in the characters of the
combatants.

Lord Brailsford hitherto living almost in seclusion,
always in delicate health, by nature refined, sensitive,
somewhat fastidious, and devoted to literary pursuits.

Captain Daubigny, a wild, careless spendthrift, addicted
to the turf, a proficient in " manly sport," whose
last year's marriage has not wrought the reformation
sanguine friends had hoped it would.

That division of the county in which Otteley lies is
all astir with the news, that is to say, the aristocratic
portion of its inhabitants and the agricultural. The
peasant and the shopkeeper are seldom moved by such
matters. But in this case the farmers are not a whit
less interested than are their landlords. No doubt, on
account of Lord Bedingfield's peculiar character, the
farmers generally honour and respect our little plethoric
Earl ; nay, they have almost a tender regard for their
agricultural Lord-lieutenant. He has invariably shown
himself so thoughtful and so condescending to these his
rural neighbours ; he has been so honest, so upright in

all his dealings with them ; and Stephen, who lies at
Otteley in a doubtful or a dangerous state, Stephen
should be Lord Bedingfield's successor.

Then for Captain Daubigny. Though he comes no
more to Brierly now, yet these rustic men have met
him often when a boy, and often since. They have
met him in the hunting-field, they have met him on
the cricket-ground. He has played at cricket with
them or with their sons, and many a tale could they
tell of young Daubigny' s unscrupulous conduct and
crafty manoeuvres during his former frequent sojourns
at Brierly. Even in sport, the nephew of the delicate-minded,
sensitive Charles Daubigny, even in sport the
boy had descended to the very lowest. One of our
farming friends could name the different places where
he ran his young cocks, who it was that trained and
trimmed the poor birds for battle, where the fights
took place, what money the lad had lost.

Then Tresham was given to boxing, and Birken of
Bracelet Mill (a jolly old miller he was) relates how,
more than once, in the absence of Sir Charles, the
hopeful heir-expectant had brought to Brierly, and
kept him there for days, a certain man famous in the
ring. And once, once he had actually attempted to
pass another of his pugilistic friends off on poor Sir
Charles as a gentleman, and his uncle, detecting the
fraud, had, "as old butler there ha' told me, been
indignant beyond measure."

Although for many days after Lord Brailsford had
submitted himself to the tender handling of those two

famous surgeons, it seemed to poor humanity as a
doubtful case whether this day or next would be his
Lordship's last on earth ; yet the angel of death
descended not to clasp him in its chill embrace.

By the world 'twas said that the genius, the skill of
Sir Maxwell Murchieson had saved the young Lord's
life. We, however, suggest the possible interposition
of a far mightier power. In one of his many sermons
Donne remarks, that " when our Saviour was on earth,
He manifested a peculiar tenderness towards women.
Never once did He turn from, never once was He
obdurate to, the prayer of a repentant or a believing
woman."

Hence, possibly to Lucy's ceaseless prayers, Stephen
owed his life. Contrite and broken-hearted, the Countess
knelt before her Saviour and her God, imploring from
Him the life of her son. Nay, the impassioned
pleading of the fond mother went yet further. She
solemnly vowed that if her prayer were granted, she herself,
in token of her gratitude, would live a new, a holier
life. To quote once more from our favourite divine :
God," says he, " hath divers ways into divers men ;
into some He comes at noon, in the sunshine of prosperity,
to some in the dark and heavy clouds of adversity."
And it was now, when the darkness and horror
of death hung over her son, her only son, that Lucy's
conscience, so long slumbering, first awakens. Stephen
was naturally inclined to good ; he had done as little
evil in his young life as he could well have done. His
first extravagant breach of rectitude had been in casting
his eyes in too great admiration upon another man's

VOL. III. K

wife. But he had intended to love only in secrecy, in

sadness. He had intended to bury his sinful passion

in his own bosom, that bosom should be its grave,

that grave should admit no other tenant. His woulo

be a lifelong sorrow, but a cherished grief, one that he

would never seek to cure. His second great sin  if

sin it could be called, for he scarcely had a choice in

the matter  was the acceptance of Daubigny's challenge ;

and now that Stephen lies, as Lucy thinks, wounded to

the death, dying of that second act of ungoverned

passion, her awakened conscience upbraids her bitterly

in regard of him. From his very childhood she knew

that she had sought rather to blunt his natural sense

of rectitude than to encourage its growth. Before him,

and known to him, she had practised a thousand little

deceits on her straightforward, simple-minded husband.

The boy, even when a mere child, had disapproved of

his mother's falsehoods and subtleties, and with a sweet

and holy innocence, which arose now how sadly to her

memory, had whispered to her of her duplicity. But he

loved her so that his childish kisses had mingled with

his half-playful reproaches. By every day's example, by

laughing at his scruples, she had perhaps somewhat

quenched his native sensitiveness to right, his love of

truth. Had he been of a sinful nature, he might have

sinned a hundredfold more than he had done without

remonstrance from herself. For any teaching he had

ever had from her, he might have been a very Pagan.

Never once in her life had she breathed a word to him

of a God, never had she read a line to him of holy writ.

And there was no one now to whisper to him of that

dread journey he was about to take, of that other world
to which he seemed fast hastening. She knew not
how herself to speak to him on such a subject : the
pompous aristocrat the rector, the Eeverend Sir
Mounteney Sherrington, she knew poor Stephen despised
for his worldliness, and had always laughed at as a
burlesque on a parson ; and the priest dare not whisper
of his Romish, religion, and dare not belie his assumed
character by offering up those Protestant prayers that
yet lived in his own bosom, that still dwelt in his
inmost soul.

So in that old abbey, where, in times long past, the
voice of holy song with dawning light day by day
had resounded, where continually had been offered up
Christian praise and prayer, Stephen, in these days of
modern improvement, Stephen, with an intellect cultivated
in the highest degree, lay a-dying, just as before
Christ trode this weary world, an enlightened Pagan
Greek or Pitman might have lain.

Ah ! to the Countess's suddenly awakened conscience
'twas a cruel thought. No wonder that with such
impassioned prayer she sued for years to be added to
her Stephen's life.

Before Lucy, at the command of her parents, had
broken off her engagement with Desmond de St. Brie,
he had given fairest promise. But the blast of disappointment,
the sting of despair had been to him as the
tempest that wrenches a vessel from its moorings to
drive the half-wrecked craft over an untried ocean
track. Without a purpose, without a hope, St. Brie
had left his family, his home, and almost by accident
had become a Catholic, a priest, one of that order most
mistrusted. Yet, even after more than twenty years
of trial, his heart still retained its fidelity to his lost
mistress, his soul much of its original rectitude. Too
late had he discovered his mistake : he had no fellowship
by nature with the guileful spirits, of those with
whom he mingled, no taste for their subtle policy.
But he had found distraction from sorrow, some alleviation
of his misery, in the work his position imposed
upon him.

We have attempted to portray De St. Brie once,
when under the influence of severest temptation. We
have shown that in that hour of infatuation he had
cast away the attributes of his sacred character, of his
priestly vocation. As by a miracle, however, he had

been delivered from that particular temptation. The
brilliantly coloured picture on which he had beer
bidden to gaze had become now but as an indistinct, a
faint-hued mezzotint.

Fortune had almost laid her treasures at his feet ; in
mockery had snatched her purposed offering away.

By the treatment of an eminent London physician
St. Erie's consumptive cousin had so far recovered as
to be enabled to undertake a voyage to Madeira ; and
should he reach that isle of beauty as well as when he
had left his native land, he might still continue to
improve, and remain in existence for months or for
years to come.

Such was the state of affairs with Desmond de St.
Brie when, Stephen pronounced out of danger, he feels
he has no longer a pretext for prolonging his stay at
Otteley.

If our isolated, our martyred priest had continued to
love his lost Lucy through all her years of folly, if he
had continued captive to her fascination when she had
been but frivolously bent on amusement, how much
more had he loved her during the last few weeks, when
together they had bent o'er Stephen's suffering form,
when together they had sought to minister to his comfort
! How far more lovely to the right-minded St. Brie
was Lucy's pale cheek and her almost pale and quivering
lip than when the one had worn the colour of a
rose-leaf, the other that of rosy coral ! Oh ! to his
native sense of right how sweet to see the Countess
thus recalled in mind and soul to the Lucy he had
loved in her girlhood.

He held her grief, her return to duty in such sanctity,
that at no moment during his sojourn at Otteley did he
forget, did he cast aside the self-denial, the reserve
befitting his sacred character ; and to her surprise, and
perhaps to her disappointment, he left the abbey without
speaking a last farewell in private.

But he had scarce gone  Lucy's eyes were still
watching the progress of the carriage that bore him
from her sight  when her son's valet delivered into
her hands a sealed package directed in St. Erie's well-known
characters.

Conscious that the carefully-sealed package must
contain some private communication, the Countess
blushes like a girl as she receives it from the man, and
with rapid steps and beating heart withdraws to cut
the string, break the seals. 'Tis done ; she reads 

The agitation of my mind is so great, induced by our
approaching separation, that I dare not ask a farewell
in private. Thou hast seen me a very Stoic in thy
presence ; by God's mercy I have not once transgressed.
But alone with thee, at such a moment, I could not
answer for a perfect discretion. Inadvertently I might
forget who and what I am. My soul might forget the
years of nothingness, of vacancy, and leap back to the
days when thou and happiness wert mine. I leave
thee in silence, but I leave thee as a souvenir a small
mediaeval crucifix, valuable as a work of art, but which,
if I may believe in woman, thou wilt value for other
reasons. Before this image of my suffering Saviour,
for nearly twenty years, day by day, at evening and at
morning, have I bowed me down ; and whilst thus in

all humility I have knelt before Him who leadeth the
secrets of every heart, I have laid bare my own, pleading
for resignation under that death-blow to hope, to
peace, to rest, how and by whom dealt, thou, dearest
Lucy, best can answer.

I consign this sad, this holy offering to thee as a
token of my undying love, as a witness of my invariable
fidelity. I might use a stronger word than fidelity,
but my sweet Lucy cavils at bare truth.

Oh, though distance shall lie between us, though
on earth we meet no more, I fain would dream that,
even to that bitter end that awaits us all, I shall be
dear to thee. Because thou disapproves the religion I
profess, yet set not light by the offering I make. Our
Saviour prescribed no peculiar form of worship. All
He asks is the heart, the will, the endeavour to do
right.

Return not, I beseech thee, to the follies, the dissipation
of the world. Long will it be ere Stephen
recover. Be to him, as slowly he is restored to health,
all that which thou hast been to him when together we
trembled, when the dark shadow of death seemed
threatening."

And Christmas came, that season of festivity to man,
of woe unto the fatted ox whereon at Christmas-time
carnivorous mortals love to feed. Otteley sent up to
London choicest beasts laden with fat. The Earl, fat
as his own fed beasts, proceeded to the show, gloried,
delighted, triumphed in the praise awarded to himself
for breeding, to the beasts for having such capacity for

fattening. He was in spirits, he was active as his own
growth of flesh permitted. Difficult to understand, his
utterance often woolly, indistinct ; but he was well and
tolerably happy.

Lucy was kinder, more considerate to her Lord ; she
did not mock, make merry at his eccentricities. Lucy
had lost much of her former flippant folly, a light had
dawned upon her soul. She really tried to do her duty.

And much attention, kindness, thought, poor Stephen
yet required. He was a cripple. If he moved without
man's aid, he must perforce use crutches. And so he
made himself invisible. He could not bear man's criticism
when thus reduced to ashes.

This Christmas came no merry guests nor modish
guests to Otteley. The Countess somehow could not
rally back her spirits. Since Desmond left, leaving his
priestly souvenir, she had been almost pensive.

But two there were this Christmas-time who also
sojourned at the abbey  two so lost in love's sweet
rhapsody they scarce knew how the outer world proceeded.
Need we say the one was William Valence
d'Abridgecourt, the other Lady Georgina Leigh ?

He had got leave to be absent from his regiment fora
month, and, instead of his grim colonel, had Cupid
for a commander. And what was D'Abridgecourt ? Let
us try to make him out. By nature he was rather
silent, rather matter-of-fact, a little difficult to unravel.
He was rather too reserved. Strangers thought him
cold and proud. But in his soul he was conscientious,
in his conduct remarkably consistent. Willie, as he was
always called by the family at the abbey, Willie did

not please every one. He never stooped to conquer, or
perhaps he might have been patronised by his noble
and wealthy kinsman the Marquis.

D' Bridgeport loved the Lady Georgina for herself,
yet he saw her imperfections often ; and the girl loved
him so, and knew he was so good she bore with his
objections. Their days of courtship were serene as
sweet. What love was in their very silence ! what hope
was in their future ! They snatched from destiny a
present mental ecstasy indescribable in words.

And now we leave the abbey, take our way to
Brierly. There, too, this Christmas-time was no festivity,
save that coarse measure permitted annually to
the servants in the servants'-hall. No lack of out-door
bounty, no lack of food, fire, raiment for the poor. Sir
Charles was careful none should suffer.

But a dim shadow stalked beside our master ; vain,
how vain his efforts to be free ! How grave the girl
had grown ! Her rounded cheek had lost its childlike
roundness, her eyes had lost their laughing light. May,
May, the month she once had longed to welcome ; May,
with its lilacs, its laburnums, when at noon she had
watched the skimming swallows, at eve the shadowy
bat ; May, the coming May for her was but a ghostly
month. How oft she shuddered as she thought of
what might be ! Silent she was, she uttered no reproaches,
and ofttimes when her husband's anxious
gaze rested upon her, she smiled and cast her arms
about him. She saw that, 'mid his still impassioned
love, day by day a deeper sadness mingled. She would
not add to his anxiety by showing all her own.

And where is Tresham, the object of this haunting
care ; the sinner with a conscience dead in trespasses
and sins ? He lingers yet abroad Why, can only be
surmised. Lord Brailsford's life is saved, therefore 'tis
not the fear of what may come at Otteley keeps him
absent, as he at first averred. The initiated, Daubigny's
sporting friends, whispered 'tis lack of money makes
him scarce ; that he is in difficulties ; that, were he to
return, now that the old year 's gone a new year dawns,
long-standing debts unpaid, he might receive too warm
a welcome ; that half-a-dozen lawyers' clerks would dog
his steps until they had discovered his retreat, and
made his personal acquaintance.

Alas ! the hapless Daubigny is wrong, all wrong in
every circumstance of his young life. The girl he
married, lone, neglected, has left her nuptial home, has
gone again to dwell beneath her uncle's roof, and wroth,
as rumour says, is he, the guardian and the man of
business. Were there nothing else to stir his anger,
Daubigny's reckless waste of wealth were all too much.

D'Abrjdgecotjrt had been led to believe that on the
26th of April the Lady Georgina would become his
wife. He was greatly surprised then, when all of a
sudden the young lady informed him that she did not
intend to be married in April. His handsome features
became clouded over with an expression of gloom and
disappointment. In fact, Willie looked absolutely
sulky.

Surely," cries Georgie, her eyes resting as she
spoke on her lover's almost angry countenance, " surely
a few days can make no difference to you ?"

To me a single hour makes a difference," answers
the matter-of-fact D'Abridgecourt. " Why did you tell
me the 26th of April?"

Because I thought it would do," says Georgie.

And why does it not ?"

I shall not explain," answers the girl, her eyes cast
down to avoid her companion's searching gaze. "Think
if you like it 's my caprice, but I cannot and will not
be married till May."

May ! " repeats D'Abridgecourt in an offended tone ;
and when May comes, I shall be put off till the end

of May, and when we reach the end of May it will be

June."

No, indeed," murmurs Georgie ; " I promise the

very beginning of May."

What do you call the very beginning ?"

The first week, some time in the first week."

I differ with you ; I say the first day."

You dreadfully exact and exacting creature," cries

Georgie, "was ever any one married on May-day?"
I will be the first then. By heaven, Georgie, I

will not have this evasion; yes, I see at the last

moment you repent."

Oh ! pray don't get on the stilts. However, that 's

the style on May-day, all sorts of mummery goes on in

this country place. I daresay you will choose to walk

up the church on stilts."

How can you thus idly jest, Georgie, on a subject

to me as of life or death ? "

Georgie retorted only by a laugh, but her laughter

had a bad effect ; her lover started to his feet. He

was, she saw, getting some crazy doubt into his head.

He was, on account of his own inferior position, very

apt to take offence. " There," cries she, " you need

not be in a pet ; sit down again, and I '11 consent to be

your May queen. D' ye hear, Willie ? "

Willie stood gazing out at window. He would not

resume the seat he had quitted.

Then you don't want me after all on May-day ? "
How am I to believe you ? How am I to put any

faith in your promise ? To-morrow I shall hear something
different."

No, I will sacrifice myself to your humour. Everybody
will laugh at a wedding on May day."

"No one will laugh at me," says Willie, his great
dark eyes looking very like those of a war-horse going
to battle.

I shall ; I shall laugh all my wedding day," cries
Georgie, laughing again, and putting her arms around
her war-horse. The young girl's caress reassured the
poor and proud D'Abridgecourt. Returning it, he
whispers we know not what, but it must have been
something rather audacious  audacious at least for
those usually guarded lips to utter, and in blushing
and surprise Georgie disengaged herself and ran away.

Left alone, the young soldier sighs heavily. The
weight of his own perverse fortune often pressed
heavily on his soul.

And so, as though by accident, the wedding was to
take place on May-day. When old Marston, the Earl's
favourite and most trusted servant, heard that the
marriage had been put off till May-day, he shook his
head and looked grave. May was an unlucky month
to marry in, he said, and the auld dames in the village
said so too.

It had been deemed absolutely necessary by the
Earl and Countess that D'Abridgecourt, at the commencement
of his engagement, should communicate
the news of his intended marriage to the old Marquis.

W T ellie reluctantly enough had done so at the outset
by writing, but now, as the day draws nearer, Lucy
insists that her future son-in-law shall see his noble

and wealthy relative, and pay him the compliment of
asking his presence at the wedding.

D'Abridgecourt had a great objection to paying this
visit. He was afraid that the man who had treated
him invariably with such absolute neglect, who had
seemed to ignore his very existence, might suppose
that he came now to beg for something wherewith to
maintain his position. He had never yet seen his
selfish and sensual old cousin, whose character, in one
respect, bore a remarkable resemblance to that of the
notorious Earl of March, afterwards Duke of Queensberry.
The Marquis's love for the beautiful and the
fascinating in the female sex very nearly equalled
that by his biographers ascribed to his grace of
Queensberry, " whose bed, when he lay a-dying " at
the age of eighty-six, "was still covered with billets
and letters from females of every rank."

But to return to our story. The stern and resolute
and proud young D'Abridgecourt, after many battles
with his own strong will, at length conquers it sufficiently
to obey the Countess's reiterated commands,
and presented himself at Eokesley House, the London
residence of the Marquis, determined, however, to be
as lofty and as distant as he expected to find its noble
owner.

Entering his Lordship's presence with such a feeling,
how surprised was D'Abridgecourt, after having been
duly introduced to, and duly recognised by this stranger
cousin, to find him not only affable in manner, but
absolutely familiar and kind ! He listened apparently
with the deepest interest to the account he asked for

from Willie's lips of the Lady Georgina. He inquired
after Lord Brailsford. He was quite up in the matter
of the duel.

And how came yon," cries the old Lord, laughing,
pardon my curiosity," he added, bowing, " but how
came you, my young kinsman, to have the boldness, I
had almost said the rashness, the temerity to address
the Lady Georgina, to ask her hand at your age, and
in your present circumstances ?"

D'Abridgecourt colouring, and with downcast eyes,
spoke of the long intimacy that had existed between
Georgina and himself.

And this you considered sufficient ground ? My
good fellow, you must have had a tolerable opinion of
yourself," cries the old fellow, his eyes directed full
upon Willie.

Afraid of having such vanity, such presumption
attributed to him, D'Abridgecourt answered with some
hesitation, " I scarcely think, indeed I may say that
certainly I should not have proposed when I did, but
it happened that I was thrown off my guard by a
peculiar circumstance."

I am an inquisitive old fellow," cries the Marquis,
and I should like to be enlightened as to the nature
of this circumstance, this ' peculiar circumstance ' that
so helped on your suit. Is it possible," continues he,
studying the manly grace, the perfect features of his
young kinsman as he spoke, " is it possible that the
young lady gave some hint, some token ?"

Good heavens, no !" exclaimed D'Abridgecourt with
vexation in his manner, his voice ; " Georgina is a

girl of quite a contrary nature. Had she cared for me
ever so much, she would have hidden it if I had
never spoken, as hastily I did."

Come," continued the old Marquis, touched by the
evident simplicity, the manly beauty of his 
successor, " come, you will lose nothing by giving me
your confidence."

I trust, my Lord," said Willie proudly, " I trust you
do not think that I sought this interview from interested
motives. I came entirely at the request of, by the
direction of Lady Bedingfield, Georgina's mother."

Well, I feel extremely flattered by the remembrance
of Lady Bedingfield; though I have never had the
honour of an introduction, I have often, at the opera,
in crowded assemblies, admired her truly feminine loveliness.
But, D'Abridgecourt, I cannot let you off. I
will not be defrauded of this l peculiar circumstance.'
I am much interested, so out with it. If it be a secret,
'twill soon sleep with me in the dust." As the old
Lord spoke these last words, there was a sadness, a
deep melancholy in his voice, and when he added, after
a moment's pause, " At seventy the grave, the grave is
perhaps a refuge, a haven. D'Abridgecourt, I desire to
hear that which I have asked you to tell."

Thus pressed  thus, as it were, compelled  Willie,
not without a lover's hesitation, told how in pure
innocence the Lady Georgina had personated Phryne.
How he, unconscious that she sinned in ignorance,
had been enraged. How he had been further goaded
and distressed by the remarks of the men around him.
How, completely off his guard, he had first reproached

the girl, and finally declared his till that moment
hidden passion.

Never was such a success as D'Abridgecourt's unsophisticated
narrative. The "peculiar circumstance"
thus explained was the very circumstance to interest
his infatuated companion.

Nothing in the world could have recommended
Georgie so forcibly to the notice, the favour of this
second Lord March as her personification of Phryne.
There was something to his perverted mind so alluring
in the fact that the innocent girl had performed the
part before a large assembly of the most unblushing
courtesan the world, ever saw. There was something in
it so piquant, so novel. Had the Lady Georgina
performed a most heroic deed, had she been a very
saint in holiness, in virtue, she had created no interest
in that sensual bosom. But this " peculiar circumstance
" was so piquant, so amusing, it raised a vision
of beauty, of levity, of wit ; and ere Willie departed,
his Lordship signified his intention of accepting, if
possible, if his health permitted, Lady Bedingfield's invitation
to the wedding.

VOL. III.

'Tis the 1st of May, such a 1st of May as used to
dawn upon us formerly. The birds rejoice, the bees
have ventured out and hover over the spring flowers
that open gladly to the morning sun. Georgie has
kept her word. She is to be the May queen. Her
war-horse grew so restive under his first disappointment,
she dare not put him off even till tomorrow.
It is not to be an imposing spectacle. The number
invited to attend is small. Lord Bedingfield and
Willie detest wedding shows. Georgie thinks only of
the rapture of marrying, for she is utterly, positively
in love, and the bridegroom-elect, though grave as an
owl, yet carries a heart beneath his flowered white satin
waistcoat that throbs and flutters from excess of feeling.
He looks paler than usual, he looks anxious, he looks
very much as though he thought some one or something
would defraud him even yet of the first taste of
joy that ever threatened him in his whole life. The
Lady Georgina, on the contrary, looks more blooming
and less timorous than brides generally care to look
There is no affectation of regret, no intention of tears.

Sir Mounteney Skeffington is to perform the marriage
ceremony. His daughter Eleanor is one of the bride's-maids.

Sir Mounteney looks pomposity itself, his
daughter Eleanor all aristocratic grace. Georgie insists
that Stephen shall be present. He can walk better
now. With the aid of a venerable gold-headed cane
he can make a tolerable limping walk for a short distance.
Lord Brailsford had begged to be excused, he
did not like going to the church, but Georgie said she
would not be refused. Lord Bedingfield, on whose arm
the girl leans, has pitiably increased even since Christmas.
He has, unfortunately, a greater capacity for
fattening than his own oxen. What a contrast are the
father and the daughter ! Georgie, so sprightly, with a
figure slim, symmetrical, and pliant, yet just enough
developed to show that she is very woman, her features
regular, classic, her dark eyes very striking ; and
D'Abridgecourt, have we not said before that he is the
personification of a noble-looking, well-bred man?

These and many others are already gathered together
in the church, when the Marquis of Eokesley, whom
they had despaired of seeing, as he arrives so late, when
he appears many eyes are turned towards this noble
notoriety, as slowly, noiselessly his Lordship steals up
the aisle.

The Marquis has a hooked nose like a bird's beak,
an eye restless and piercing as that of a falcon, a fine
forehead ; a grace, an air of distinction, an elegance of
manner cleaves to him even in this his very old age.

So the ceremony proceeds, at length 'tis over, and
as it concludes, the noble old sinner, the last to arrive,
is the first amid the company who ventures to address
the bride. With a manner at once flattering and

insinuating, in a voice soft and musical, he begs the
girl to lift her veil. He is really charmed by the
fair vision that greets him as she complies, and tenderly
he presses her unloved hand in token of
approbation.

On returning to the Abbey, the bride seeks her
chamber to snatch a few moments' repose. Drawbridges
is amid the group of men assembled in the
drawing-room below. His nature is not light and volatile,
and now suppressed feeling, reserve, renders him
peculiarly grave, silent, absent, so absent that on the
old Marquis touching him on the arm he gives an
evident start. The old man whispers, " Be so good as
to show me to some room where are writing materials."
Willie obeys. They are presently together alone in
the secluded library. The younger man places a chair
before a table, sets the inkstand conveniently, then
turns his back, looks out at window, while, as he considers,
at this most inopportune time the writing goes
on. The old Lord, however, presently rises from the
chair which Willie had placed. The writing occupied
but a short time.

We will now return," says he, addressing Drawbridges
" we will now return to the rest of the company."

The wedding-breakfast was indeed waiting. The
butler had already announced it as ready. The Lady
(georgia had descended from her chamber, rather
astonished, perhaps, at finding no Willie, but still more
astonished, when entering the drawing-room together,
she sees her husband of an hour and his noble kinsman.
Yes, the latter instantly approaches and offers his arm

to take her in to breakfast. The girl fain had had the
bridegroom's arm, but in her father's house she feels
bound to be courteous to the venerable stranger. As
slowly, with almost faltering steps, this ghost of himself
walks beside her, he says, presenting as he speaks
a small leather case, "This is a little wedding-gift,
which, however, I must beg you will not open until
you are seated in the carriage with my young kinsman."


You are very kind, my Lord," returns the girl.
Of whatever nature your gift may be I shall highly
appreciate it."

Regard it, my dear, as a mere stepping-stone to
better things. It is indeed a solace to me that
D'Abridgecourt has shown so much taste. I confess
that it would have pained me had the future Marchioness
of Eokesley been below mediocrity, nay, had
she been but passably fair. When I asked you, my
child, to lift your veil, I can scarcely explain how I
felt. I almost trembled. But the sweet vision that
met my gaze reassured me instantly. I saw all that
could be desired in woman ; not only regularity of
feature, but an expression, a delicacy that satisfied
perfectly my perhaps too fastidious taste. My child,
let me hope we shall be friends, the best of friends,
during my short sojourn here on earth."

They had now reached the table, and Georgina
expected and hoped that the old Lord would give place
to Willie, that Willie would be allowed to sit next her.
But no, the Marquis's ancient figure must still intervene.


The repast goes on much as repasts usually do, and
D'Abridgecourt waits impatiently for the happy moment
when it will be over. To his disgust and dismay,
however, by way of prolonging it, presently arises on his
legs Sir Mounteney. . The reverend baronet is fond of
making a speech, and he makes one now as pompous as
it is gracious, which seems to require an acknowledgment
from the bridegroom.

Willie is not a specified ; he has no gift that way,
and he hates Sir Mounteney ; and turning in this his
dilemma to his aged and noble kinsman, he says : " My
Lord, you are a man of known eloquence ; I am utterly
at a loss  I shall be certain to break down ; will you
be so generous ? Will you speak a few words for me ?
I shall listen  I shall profit ; I shall indeed be most
grateful."

Perhaps no request could so have flattered the vanity
of the old man as this ; and it seemed, at that moment,
that all the elegance of manner, the grace which in his
earlier days had distinguished the Marquis, was once
more vouchsafed to him. He rises, he speaks admirably,
and to the annoyance of Sir Mounteney and to the
surprise of every one else present, he commences his
speech by stating that he speaks on behalf of his valued
and worthy young kinsman, on behalf of his fortunate
and happy successor  fortunate and happy in having
this day secured so great a prize, and then he showered
such compliments on the bride as made Georgie blush.
When his short speech is ended, like a flickering light
that blazes up high for a while but to grow dimmer
and fainter after, the noble orator, feeble and weak, sits

down, sinks back in his chair. His trembling hand,
scarce able to raise to his withered lips the liqueur glass,
he bids his own attendant fill with eau de vie, so far
gone is this man, once a miracle of strength and activity.
The Marquis is thus temporarily reposing, his fainting
faculties slowly recovering under the influence of the
stimulant he has swallowed, Willie is silently or
mentally congratulating himself on having escaped the
exhibition of a speech, when a sound of merry voices
outside the house attracts the notice of several of the
company.

The state drawing-room in which the wedding breakfast
is taking place is lighted on one side by three
vast windows, reaching nearly from its lofty ceiling to
its oaken floor. These windows look directly on to the
lawn whence the merry sounds proceed. The Eeverend
Sir Mounteney sits exactly facing one of these windows.
Suddenly he gives a start ; he addresses Lord Springfield
in a tone of voice that shows he is offended : " Is
this your answer, my Lord," says he, " is this your
answer to my letter of expostulation ?"

"The most sen-si-ble and practical answer lean give,
Sir Moun-te-ney," answers the Earl in his slow and indistinct
manner of speaking. " You wrote me a week
ago that So-lotion grows dan-serious  that he should
have his liberty cur-tailed. I car-red your letter to
my chief herdsman. I in-quire of him what could bethe
mori-gin of the slanderous reports raised in detriment
to the poor animal."

I am exceedingly indebted to your Lordship," says
Sir Mounteney with a very clerical expression on his

aristocratically moulded features ; " you refer the case to
an uneducated peasant."

I felt certain," continued Lord Being field, " that
there could be no foundation for such a charge. The
fault, Sir Mounteney, lies all on the other side. When
little vag-a-bond boys choose to take un warrant-able
li-beauties with Taurus, flaunt their red chokes at him,
or their red rags of pocket-hand-ker-chiefs, no wonder if
he be restive. Their de-lu-ded mothers, I suspect, have
pro-tested to you against So-lotion, d  their insolence."


"I am not a whit shaken in my belief," says Sir
Mounteney. " I once more affirm that the animal has
become dangerous, and should not be allowed the whole
range of the park, through which, my Lord, as you well
know, from time immemorial has been a right of way,
a footpath, the disuse of which must occasion serious
inconvenience."

My answer, Sir Mounteney, is, look at the picture
before you ; can any ev-cadence be better calc-lated to
silence the mal-impious tongues of these old good-lies ?
There," cries his Lordship, advancing from his seat
to the window, which he throws open, " there, do you
see my herdsman's daughter, little Amy Dewberry, do
you see she leans her rosy cheek upon the poor animal's
neck ? I repeat, the picture before you is my answer."

The picture, we should perhaps call it the tableau
vivant, to which Lord Bedingfield draws Sir Mounteney's
attention, is singular, is fantastic, is blithe, is full of
rustic grace.

The village school-girls, all dressed alike in white and

azure blue, with wreaths of lilac blossoms round their
new straw hats, have come to serenade the Lady
Georgina, to hail her queen of the May. It is a pretty
old song they sing, and they do it very well. The
children walk in pairs, each couple united by carrying
between them a festooned garland of wild spring flowers.
In the very centre of the joyous throng walks the
mighty and majestic Solomon, his neck also garlanded
and ribbon too. The chief herdsman, in a livery of
green, such as the Earl's keepers wear on gala days, the
chief herdsman leads by a leather thong the noble-looking
animal, while Amy, the herdsman's pretty
daughter, caresses the snow-white beast as he walks,
and feeds him from time to time with dainties from a
green rush basket slung on her arm.

Sir Mounteney's temper is irritated, his feelings are
outraged, as he gazes on the rustic spectacle before him.
As a man of sublime pedigree, as rector of the parish,
he feels that he is entitled to exercise a superlative
degree of authority over every soul in that parish. And
here is a low-born herdsman, one of his own flock too,
taught by Lord Bedingfield to be insolent, to be disrespectful.


Almost suffocated by wounded pride, by anger,
carefully, painfully suppressed, he once more addresses
the Earl. The tone of his voice he intends shall be
solemn, but his heart is so full of indignation that,
despite all effort, he cannot modulate it.

My Lord," says he, " my sacred character gives mea
right to expostulate. You are making a perfect idol
of that animal. I once more affirm that the beast has

become capricious and spiteful, and that it is not to be
trusted. The very hand that feeds it to-day may
tomorrow be mangled by its fury."

Lord Bedingfield only smiled in the folds of his
voluminous neckcloth at Sir Mounteney's harangue.
Breathing hard from even the trifling exertion of
moving, talking, and throwing open the window, his
Lordship returns quietly to his seat.

The Marquis had been a mute spectator of the scene ;
nature had endued him with a keen sense for the
ridiculous, and, mentally, he had been as much amused
at the pomposity of Sir Mounteney as at the obesity
and indistinct utterance of the agricultural Earl.

Lucy thinks the present one an opportune moment
for the ladies to retire. Looking as though she might
have been the bride herself, she signals to the Lady
Laura Skeffington, and thereupon the whole bevy of
petticoats arise and depart.

Soon after the ladies have left the room, the Marquis,
who sits next Willie, intimates to him, almost in a
whisper, that he intends now to steal away quietly, as
his health does not permit of continuous exertion.
Hereupon his young kinsman inquires if he can be of
any service.

The fact is," replies the noble shadow, still in the
same undertone, " the fact is, I ordered my carriage at
this hour, and my servant has already apprised me that
it w r its. I shall like, if you please, that you see me
to it ; but get up from your chair noiselessly, and let
no one suspect I am off. I hope," continues he, " I
hope I have performed satisfactorily the errand that
brought me hither. I hope that I have given you and
the lovely Phryne "  and his old eyes look wicked ashe
speaks this revered name  " I hope that 1 have given
you and the lovely Phryne assurance of my best, my
warmest regard."

The carriage, with its four post-horses, is waiting at
the hall door. Willie stands and looks on, while the
privileged attendant of the old Lord helps to attire him
in a cloak lined with sables. Another minute or two,
and rapidly the vehicle whirls away. Willie returns to
his seat in the dining-room, very sick of it, longing for

the moment when, without seeming spooney, he may
make some advance towards the privileges attaching
to his new position.

Ah ! how beautiful are his grave grey eyes in their
sudden expression of gladness and excitement, yet how
almost abashed his young countenance when presently
the Countess herself just peeps in at the door and says,
Willie, I want you, please."

Very soon after this, perhaps half-an-hour after, it is
rumoured that the bride and the bridegroom are about
to depart. The whole household assembles in the great
hall to witness the sweet, sad end, and the wedding-guests,
though unbidden, would fain witness the leave-taking
too.

The bride descends from her chamber, dressed so
simply, yet so becomingly, in a travelling suit of silver
grey, her grey straw bonnet wreathed around the crown
with velvet of rose and crimson intertwined. Willie,
who waits at the bottom of the oaken staircase to claim
his prize, Willie, calling up all the sang froid he can
muster under an inspection so distasteful to him, is still
as a sentinel on duty and as erect. The girl, on the
contrary, is all ease and grace and smiles, her classic
features radiant with unfeigned happiness. 'Tis the
moment now for Lucy to give her daughter a last embrace,
and, strange to tell, the gay, the flighty Lucy can
scarce repress her tears. Her own wedding day in all
its bitterness, and the moment when she had embraced
her own mother at parting, returns so forcibly upon her.

Well, they are gone ! The equipage that bears them
away is whirling rapidly onwards. But lo ! some who

are still gazing after it behold that suddenly the carriage
stops  comes to a dead stand.

"What can be the matter?" cry several young voices.
Every one takes up the cry; there is abundance of
laughter and speculation. But it turns out that a very
trifling incident has caused the delay. The Lady
Georgina's maid is presently visible, running towards
the house. Her Lady, she says as she enters the hall
door, has sent her back for a red morocco jewel-case,
which inadvertently she had left on the toilet-table.

Now, let us hear the dialogue going on inside the
carriage before the maid was sent back.

Willie, you must stop the carriage ; I have forgotten
something."

Nonsense," cries he ; " what can you have forgotten
?"

A little jewel-case."

You think a thousand times more of such rubbish
than you do of me, Georgie. You have scarcely spoken
to me to-day. Pray leave it to its fate."

I will not. I have not had an opportunity before
of telling you about it. Stop the carriage instantly, I
say. Do you hear me, Willie, I insist."

Looking almost sulky, Willie obeys.

"Are we going to quarrel on our wedding-day ?"
asks the girl, laughing as she observes his discontented
look. " It is a gift of your old relation's, and he desired
me not to open it till I was with you in the carriage.
I had to keep it about me all breakfast time, and I laid
it down on the toilet-table when I changed my dress,
and in the hurry I quite forgot it."

"Psha!" exclaims Willie, "is that all? I wished
the old ghost a hundred miles off, thrusting himself
between us as he did."

But we can make up for lost time now," cries
Georgie, laughing.

Phryne, what does that mean, eh ? " asks the young
lover, seizing one of the girl's hands and gazing intently
on her laughing, blushing face.

It means nothing," cries she, " except that you are
to hush up all your doubts and fears. But indeed I
will not have you call me Phryne."

That old ghost calls you so."

"He!" exclaims the girl in alarm. "How came he
ever to hear of it ? Some gossiping wretch must have
told him of it out of malice."

I unfortunately was the gossiping wretch," answers
Willie gravely, "and I shall always repent my inadvertent
candour."

How ever came you to tell him ? How could you
tell it to the man I desire should hold me in honour,
in esteem ?"

On this D'Abridgecourt related to the girl, for the
first time, every word, as far as he could remember,
that had passed between the Marquis and himself when
he called upon him by Lucy's command. They are still
on the same subject when the tight-laced maid, gasping
for breath, returns with the red morocco case and
delivers it to her mistress.

Assisted by Willie's servant, the maid once more
ascends the dickey, he laughing at her for the speed she
had made.

Why, Lily," says he, " you run so well, I '11 see if I

/o

can get you entered 'mong the young fillies to run atour
next races."

Hold your saucy tongue," says Lily, crimson as a
rose with her recent exertion ; " I 've made myself so
intolerable hot, and my hair 's a-tumbling."

What does it matter, my dear ? You look best en
ntgligde, as the French call it, and if we wasn't perched
up so mighty 'high for all the little birds in the hair to
see us, I 'd tumble it a little more."

Such is the discourse outside the carriage. Let us
hear what is going on within.

The Lady Georgina has opened the red morocco case.
She finds it contains a magnificent necklace of a single
row of pearls, a sweet little ruby and pearl locket to be
worn with it at pleasure. She is admiring the costly
and lovely gift when her eye rests on a paper with
writing on it, pressed into the white satin-lined lid of
the case. She takes it out, opens it. " Why," cries she,
what is it ? Yes, it is a cheque. Willie, this must
be for you."

He holds out his hand, he takes the paper, he reads.
No, Georgie," says he, " it is for you."

For me ? Impossible. What are the figures ? I
do not understand oughts. Is it a thousand ?"

Ten thousand," says D'Abridgecourt, gazing on it
gravely, almost sadly.

"Good heavens !" cries Georgie. " Oh, but I know
what it means ; it is a delicate way of paying off his
debt to you. Papa says he ought to have done a great
deal for you."

D'Abridgecourt shakes his head and laughs derisively.
I might have starved or blown out my brains," cries

he, "and he had never cared. 'Tis his nature, his character
: miserly to man, munificent to woman. I wish
to God, Georgie, that your mother had never ordered
me to go after the old tottering ghost. He intends to
ingratiate himself with you, my little wife, and  I may
go to the devil'

Oh, Willie, why are you always so suspicious, so
jealous ? What harm can there be in such a wreck of
a man ?"

There will be harm in him to the hour of his death,"
cries Willie, sinking back in the carriage with a sigh,
his long shaped and beautiful eyes expressing bitterness
and disgust. " We had been happier, we had been
better with the little we have than with his patronage
and all that he may choose to bestow."

He said," cries Georgie thoughtlessly, " that I was
to regard this little wedding-gift as a mere steppingstone
to better things."

What are his better things V says Willie, " I should
like to know."

He spoke, too," continues the girl, " of his own
short sojourn now on earth."

I should not care if he lived twenty years more,"
cries Willie, gazing on the girl with looks of impassioned
tenderness, " if he would only leave us to ourselves."

And will you cloud to-day, the day that we have
both so longed for, will you cloud our very wedding
day by vain imaginations of the future ?"

I never thought," answers D'Abridgecourt sadly and
gravely, " I never thought, after I heard of all the fuss
there was to be with people and presents, and bride's-maids
and lockets, and Sir Mounteney to perform, that

my wedding day could be agreeable, and, as far as I am
concerned, the day has been unpleasant enough."

You are very amiable," cries Georgie.

I am not amiable at all."

This is marriage," continues the girl. " I wish Sir
Mounteney had not chained us together."

So far it has not been marriage  a mere farce,
mummery," cries Willie. " Perhaps when we are absolutely
rid of our four horses and our white favours,
when we have fairly reached our destination, when we
have got over the dinner, when the sun has set and the
moon is up  "

Horrid time," cries the girl affectedly, " when the
white owl hoots and the black bat flits. I shall be
sulky then."

No you won't," says the young soldier, gazing upon
his Phryne in some alarm, but with a grave, impassioned
tenderness that enhanced his manly beauty.

And till then," asks Georgie pertly, " are we to
quarrel till the moon rises ?"

"I wish, Georgina, you would not talk nonsense.
Why do you?"

Because it makes you look angry, and when you are
angry you always look handsomer than at any other time.
Willie" (looking at him), "don't you know you're a very
handsome fellow ? Don't you think so yourself, now?"

I never think about my looks at all," answers
Willie ; " I have always had too much mortification,
too much to vex me, and if, Georgie, you fancied me
merely because you thought me good-looking, I really
don't value your love a rush."

VOL. III. M

Oh ! there was another reason why I married you,"
cries the girl, laughing provokingly ; " perhaps that will
satisfy you better. I liked the idea of becoming a
Marchioness."

"What a pity you had not fallen in with the old
ghost a month or two earlier," exclaims D'Abridgecourt
in a tone of badinage that was contradicted by his
heightened colour ; " you might perhaps even now
to-day have been setting off with him for your honeymoon
instead of with me."

Oh, Willie ! " cries the girl playfully, " I could not
have done without you. In such a case as you suppose,
if he had reigned, I should have had you as viceroy."

You may choose to sacrifice me, Georgie, even yet.
Such things have been; old as he is, he is equal to any
amount of mischief."

Now, Willie, this is too bad," cries the girl, casting
off her bonnet and resting her pretty head on the
proud and aching bosom of the young soldier ; " I 've
quite done with my nonsense now. Why are you so
dreadfully upright? Pray subside, there's a dear.
Forget now it 's our wedding day, at least forget all the
exhibition, as you call it ; not, however, that I see you
have any right to complain. I had only six bride's-maids,
you know, and only fifty people, including ourselves,
sat down to breakfast. What would you have
thought of Miss Belle Brabazon's wedding ? The only
time I ever acted a part in a wedding was then. I was
one of her twelve bride's-maids, and four hundred people
came by invitation, and another hundred, I heard, had
invitations which they did not accept."

It is the second morning after the Lady Georgina's
wedding. The several guests who have been staying
at the Abbey have all departed, and Lucy goes down
to breakfast with a sense of loneliness, with an aching
heart. She scarce knows why, but a peculiar sadness
seems to weigh upon her spirit, seems to cleave
to her, and, when the letters are brought in, she starts,
a thrill of deeper pain succeeds the dull one that
causelessly had oppressed her before, for she sees, addressed
to herself, a letter in the handwriting of Desmond
de St. Brie. She opens her letter with a hand that is
tremulous as the beating of her heart. And what does
she read ? That, in spite of every human aid, in spite
of the voyage to, the residence at Madeira, death had
claimed the consumptive cousin, and Desmond succeeds
to his estates. He lays the offering at her feet, but he
will not urge her to accept it. He dare not urge her
to take a step so grave, which her own conscience
disapproves. "Yet, Lucy," continued he, "my own soul,
my too impassioned heart rebels. I cannot bring
myself into subjection. Oh, what a destiny is mine !
God saw me defrauded of all that I held dearest, and
I may not beseech Him to give me my lost treasure
back."

Canst thou, my reader, imagine the fond, frail woman's
distress ? She must answer the letter. She must once
more pierce the still faithful heart that in girlhood she
had well-nigh broken. She must continue to live on
with a husband who daily becomes more akin to his
own fed beasts.

Stephen, with his limping gait and his ghostly face,
enters the breakfast-room. He finds on the table some
letters addressed to himself, and, while examining them,
his attention is diverted from the Countess. She sits
with Desmond's open letter in her lap, her eyes are
cast down, are fixed on those beloved characters.

She dare not hold the letter up, lest her Lord, oncoming
in from his customary tour of inspection,
should recognise the writing.

Suddenly Stephen starts up and limps to the window.
"Mamma," he says, "I am afraid something is the matter.
My father's horse has come to the door without him."

Lucy was so bewildered, so lost in her letter, she
had scarcely heard at first what Stephen said, but
now, now she comprehends. She sees him ring the
bell ; she hears him give orders for people instantly to
go in search of Lord Bedingfield. He inquires if anyone
knows which way their master had ridden.

And presently Lord Brailsford goes forth himself,
and Lucy is left alone.

In spite of every effort to repress it, sin in her heart
is whispering hope. She looks up to heaven, she
mentally beseeches God to pardon her sin, to give her
strength to resist, to crush it out. But as one quarter
of an hour passes and the Earl comes not,  as the

chiming clock in the room tells her that another
quarter has passed, and no tidings even arrive, her
agitation and her sinful hope, despite all effort at
self-control, deepen, and she stands shuddering and
pale as death.

Two quarters more in silvery tones that old French
clock must tell, and then shall Lucy hear a sound,
slow and measured, a trampling of feet. No hum of
voices, no single word falls on her listening ear, and the
deep and voiceless silence seems to bode, to waft the
fatal news.

Lord Bedingfield, on a hastily improvised and rustic
bier, a wattled hurdle for his couch, a rolled horse-cloth
for his pillow, is borne home by six of his farm-labourers.
That life is extinct seems but too certain,
but a messenger had been despatched for Dr. Softly,
who arrives at the Abbey door simultaneously with the
Earl's rigid and ghastly form.

At his command the six bearers place their sad
burden on an old oaken table that stands in the midst
of the hall, and there, after making a minute examination,
the doctor pronounces that he can give not the
slightest hope. The Earl may probably have been
dead an hour before he had been found.

Lucy, still in the breakfast-room, but unable longer
to support herself, has sunk down on to a chair. Her
plump little hands, with palms usually rosy bright,
look bloodless now, and are locked fast, almost convulsively
together. Icy cold she is in this moment of
dread suspense. She shudders, but she sheds no tear.

Stephen and the doctor come and gently tell her.

She gazes on them with an expression of horror, of
doubt. " No, no," she murmurs, " it cannot be \"

Ah, how little know they of the sinful conflict in
her heart ! How little know they that in its very
depths there is an irrepressible desire to hear repeated
again, again, assurance of the fatal truth !

The doctor, with his power of appreciating the depth
of human emotion, eyes the Countess with some degree
of alarm. Those tearless eyes, those blanched lips,
the hands, deathlike, locked convulsively together,
give token of overpowering feeling.

You must endeavour, Madam," says he in his
blandest tone, " to reconcile yourself to your cruel, your
irremediable loss. You must console yourself in the
assurance that I am able to give  that death must have
been almost instantaneous ; no suffering. And who,
Madam, had so little to dread in a translation so
sudden ?"

The Countess listens. Can she dare to believe ?
Her overcharged heart almost refuses.

Mamma, dearest mamma," says Stephen, kissing his
mother's pale cheek, " I would not, I could not believe
at first, but it is indeed too true," and overcome by
bodily weakness, by mental suffering, by memories of
Lord Bedingfleld's harshness and neglect, the young
Earl himself breaks forth into a passion of tears. The
doctor now brings wine, and bids the Countess swallow
it. He gently unclasps one icy hand from the other,
and rubs hartshorn on their palms.

Gradually Lucy recovers from the too great shock.
With her head resting on Stephen's shoulder, the pent-up

tears steal forth. But no voice can whisper comfort
to her soul. He is dead, and conscience wakens.
Despite herself Lucy must mourn, not for his death,
but for her own ingratitude, her own duplicity.

Stephen is still doing his best to comfort his mother,
is still sitting with one attenuated arm around her.
Dr. Softly, though still present, has, with his usual
delicacy of feeling, withdrawn a little distance from the
twain, when a servant, entering the room, announces,
Sir Mounteney Skeffington." The rector, yet resentful
of the rebuff he had received during the wedding
breakfast, holds his head rather higher than usual. He
shows neither surprise nor regret. " The wonder is,"
says he, addressing Lady Bedingfield, " the wonder is
that this unfortunate affair has not occurred long
before. Every one in their right senses might have
foreseen that it would inevitably happen."

Just at this cruel moment Sir Mounteney's visit is
anything but welcome. In a very short time, however,
Lucy and the young Earl are temporarily relieved of
his presence.

Beckoning the doctor to follow, he quits the apartment.

Sir Mounteney likes to interfere with, likes to be
paramount in every matter connected with his parish,
and he has called thus early at the Abbey to inquire
of the doctor whether of necessity there must be a
coroner's inquest.

After due consultation it is agreed that, since no
person witnessed Lord Bedingfielcl's death, a coroner's
inquest cannot be avoided.

And when Stephen and the Countess are left alone

together, while her tears are falling fast, she says,
Stephen, will you write to Georgie ?"

Must we blast her happiness so soon ?" murmurs
the ghostly young Earl. " Will not tomorrow be
time enough ? "

No," says Lucy, " she would never forgive us 
to-day."

kC Mamma," continues he, " you would do it best."

I cannot," answers Lucy with a shudder, " my head
is too confused ; my mind  "

Ah ! Lucy shrank from such a task. She knew
how Georgie had loved her father, and she could not
dare herself to write such words of tenderness, of
passionate regret as became a suddenly bereaved wife
and mother. She felt that God knew her every feeling,
and she dare not lie thus before Him.

I will do my best," says Stephen ; " but it is a
terrible thing to have to snatch so soon from Georgie
her scarce tasted happiness, and D'Abridgecourt will feel
it deeply too," continued he ; " though so different, they
always got on so well together," and Stephen's tears
started anew as he remembered that Willie had ever
been preferred to himself.

It was indeed too true Lord Bedingfield had loved
the noble-looking yet hard, unpolished, unworldly
orphan boy who always came to spend his holidays at
Otteley, far better than the ailing, the refined, the
fastidious, the spiritually-minded son born to be his
successor.

But we return to the present. The consultation
over, Sir Mounteney departs, and the doctor returns

to the room he had so lately quitted. As he approaches
the Countess, he is struck by her exceeding
paleness and by a restlessness of the eyes ; the hands,
too, are again tightly clasped together. With his most
persuasive gentleness he begs her to try and be composed,
and asks if he may venture to prescribe a little
sedative draught. " If your Ladyship will not deem me
too officious," says the courtly doctor, bowing, " I should
suggest that you take the mixture and retire to your
bedroom, that the curtains be drawn, that you lie on
the bed. It is quite possible that you may drop asleep."

On this Lucy fell a- weeping bitterly. She thought
of her poor dead Lord, and how impossible it would befor
her ever again to inhabit the connubial chamber,
that chamber which she used laughingly to tell him
was redolent of boots and buckskins. Oh ! for her
'twould be for evermore a haunted spot. No, she must
again occupy the Frenchified apartment, the gewgaw
bed the poor little Earl had so detested.

The Countess rings, and when the footman answers
the bell, she bids him send Celine. Celine is the only
person in the household who feels no regret. She knew
that Lord Bedingfield had disliked her, and now she
receives Lucy's orders to carry all her things into the
French room with scarce disguised satisfaction.

Fortunately the gewgaw bed had been occupied by
one of Georgie's bride's-maids so lately that it required
no airing, arid in less than an hour from when she had
been first summoned Celine returns to her Lady, and
assures her that the room colder de rose is in perfect
readiness.

Carrying in her hand the sedative mixture, which
our doctor had been able to prepare from the family
medicine-chest, armed with this Lethe, Lucy at once
retires. To rest ? To court oblivion ? no! The
still lovely Countess locks her door ; and now that no
human eye beholds her, she may weep those impassioned
tears that alone can bring to her burdened
heart relief. She casts herself indeed upon the bed,
beneath the hovering Cupid, and there, like a thunder-shower
on a summer day, her burning tears gush forth.
The bitter past, the frightful present, a future which as
yet she may not welcome. But oh, what a heaven is
in that future ! Without shame in this world, without
perdition in the next, to love and be beloved by
Desmond de St. Brie ! The very thought brings
momentarily a bright blush to Lucy's pale cheek.

woman, to the outer world, to the uninitiated,
how inconsistent dost thou ofttimes appear ! Thine
actions how frequently belie thy words ! Yet could we
read thine inmost soul, how much that seems contradictory
and whimsical would prove to be the reverse !
Have we not but just now heard Lucy aver to her son
that she could not write to Georgie, that her mind was
too bewildered, her head she would have said distrait ?

And presently the mother who could not write to
her daughter arises from the bed whereon she has been
weeping to write to Desmond de St. Brie !

Yet there is in fact nothing inconsistent in Lucy's
conduct.

The Lady Georgina had not the slightest suspicion
that the lover of her mother's girlhood still retained

his early passion, and would have scarce believed it
possible that the Countess, under the mask of levity
she usually wore, could be capable of deep, intense, and
enduring attachment.

Lucy then can write to one who comprehends, who has
been a fellow-sufferer in her heart's long trial. But she
can find no fitting words wherewith to mask reality.

And how childlike and unstudied is the letter that
Lucy writes ! She first tells of her agitation, her heart-stricken
feeling as at the breakfast-table she had read
the letter of temptation, but how instantly she had
determined to resist. She next tells of the miracle that
had freed her from her vowed allegiance to another,
and then Lucy finally gives herself sweetly and trustingly
to him who had hoped against hope, who had
borne isolation and sorrow for her sake in humble
resignation of spirit. " Thou art worthier, my own
beloved Desmond, far worthier than I," wrote she.
May God help me to become all that thou wouldst
approve ! Life to me has been but as an idle jest. I
have had no interest in going right."

There was a padlocked box in the Abbey hall with
a slit in it. Any one of the household who chose
might drop a letter into this post box, and then it was
certain at the right time to go safe to the post-office.
For many, many years, when the family was down at
Otteley, it had been old Marston's custom to unlock
the box, take out the letters, and transfer them to the
post-boy's leathern bag.

Lucy knows by long experience the time when
Marston will unlock the box. With her own hand will

she slip her letter in previously. She does not desire
that any one should know that on this dreadful day
she writes to Desmond ; and further, she does not
wish to be seen gliding down the oaken staircase across
the hall to the box.

Ah ! see the Countess, as stealthily she opens her
door, looks up and down the corridor, and listens if
there be a sound. Her mind has been so troubled that
all her silky chestnut hair is unfastened, and now she
is so troubled she heeds it not. In this hour of anguish
and excitement she is not the gracefully fur-beloved
woman of fashion, she is a woman distrait.

Nature, sorrow, and amazement chase art and
worldly thoughts away. So Lucy, in her tumbled
white muslin dress, its frills, its pale blue ribbons discomposed,
her hair dishevelled, glides along the corridor,
flies lightly down the stairs, crosses the hall, slips her
letter into the post-box.

As she regains her bedroom, she congratulates herself
on her own skill, her own accomplished artifice.
But her movements have been so rapid, that now she
is once more alone in her apartment. For the first
few minutes one hand is pressed to her throbbing
temple, while with the other she clutches a chair-back
for support.

What a whirlwind is in her mind ! But her agitation
had been of a deeper, a more cruel kind ; and a crimson
blush of shame had dyed" her cheek had she known
that one, far more practised in craft than herself, had
been inadvertently a witness of what she deemed her
adroit performance.

The softly-gliding doctor, useful in how many different
ways at Otteley, on this deplorable day has, with
old Marston as a prompter, been gently reminding
Stephen that he must give authority to some one to
order mourning habiliments for all the male servants
in the establishment.

Stephen, as much bewildered by his suddenly acquired
and little coveted burden of wealth and responsibility,
as is his mother by her unlooked-for freedom from
matrimonial bondage,  when the two men enter his
room, and the doctor explains their object in intruding,
begs, without so much as raising his head from the
paper on which he is writing, begs " they will do and
order whatsoever Marston thinks right."

On receiving this unlimited authority, Marston, withall
due respect, requests the doctor to come with him
into that curious little nook known as the office, and
which, as we have before remarked, opens into the
hall. Here the late Lord's most valued and trusted
servant knows he shall find pens, ink, and paper. It
was rather late to begin such a letter,  a letter that
required extreme clearness of language, plainness of
direction, lest the London tailor to whom it was
addressed might not perfectly comprehend the extensive
order. But with the ready pen and ready wit
of the doctor, and the experience of the poor trembling
old valet, the letter is accomplished just before the time
Marston unlocks the post-box.

Our courtly doctor's task over, he rises from his
chair by the table, he walks to the office door. The
door, when the two men entered, had been left ajar.

The doctor is just about to push it open wider, when
through the narrow aperture his catlike eyes are
crossed by a vision, which for the moment arrests his
hand.

He sees the Countess, her hair dishevelled, her dressa
V abandon, he sees her drop a letter into the letter-box,
then with all the lightness of step, the rapidity
of girlhood, fly across the hall, ascend the staircase.

Dr. Softly had in him as much of self-command as
of craft. He neither moved nor spoke, so that old
Marston, who was in the background, obtained no
glimpse of the fair apparition.

I will know what the Countess is about," muses
the doctor. " It can only be a case of extreme urgency.
Agitated and ill, as I have seen her this morning,
nothing short of dire necessity could induce her to move
so rapidly."

Accordingly the doctor loiters in the hall until
Marston, having unpadlocked the letter-box, is about
to transfer, to consign its contents to the darkness and
concealment of the leathern bag. Whereupon our wily
friend exclaims, " Wait one moment, Marston, one
moment. There has been such deplorable confusion
to-day, my head is wellnigh turned. I really cannot
remember whether I put a letter in I intended to.
Just let me see."

The old valet, perfectly unsuspicious, places the few
letters the box had contained in array on a neighbouring
slab of marble.

Thank you, thank you," cries the crafty and
inquisitive Aesculapius. After due inspection, adds,

Thank you, it is all right. I am quite satisfied."
And satisfied indeed the doctor is that the Countess
has written to-day, in the first hours of her freedom, of
her widowhood, to Desmond de St. Brie.

During Stephen's illness our lynx-eyed friend more
than once had suspected a tenderness. Unseen, he had
studied the priest's pale, spirituel countenance.

There must needs be a coroner's inquest. And there
is one, and various servants of the Otteley establishment
appear as witnesses. First old Marston, now, through
the dreadful shock and the loss of the kindest master
man ever had, looking ghostly as the occasion itself.
He relates that as usual, at seven o'clock on the morning
in question, he assisted his master to dress, that he has
since called to mind that he did observe an unusual
difficulty in his Lordship's breathing ; but he could say
nothing more, for he had gone down-stairs to ascertain,
according to his daily custom, whether the groom was
waiting at the hall door with Lord Bedingfield's horse.
There was a part of the stone work at the entrance of
the Abbey that rose up considerably higher than the
gravel sweep below, and from this elevated stone his
Lordship was enabled to mount his horse without difficulty.
At this early hour his Lordship always rode
unattended. But he remembered that on this morning
the groom who had brought the horse to the door, stood
talking with himself for some minutes after their
master had got on to his horse, and they saw their
master ride in the direction of the model farm. The

said groom called, confirmed what Marston had just
narrated concerning the latter part of the old valet's
statement.

Others, other witnesses were called. But they could
only tell that after searching about the model farm
in vain, they at length went into the park. There in
the distance they saw Solomon, and they could also
distinguish something dark near him lying on the
ground. They made up to the animal, and to their
horror and consternation found the dark object on the
ground was the body of their master. At first they
thought that the bull must have killed him. But
Solomon, though restless and excited walking backwards
and forwards, showed no violence, and on raising
his Lordship up and examining him, no mark or injury
could be discovered.

The chief herdsman was present. He gave testimony
as to the gentleness of Solomon when not provoked.
The man was proceeding in his statement,
when the rector, looking indignation itself, was down
upon him. " Provoked ! was it provocation for people
merely to pass near the animal?" Several instances
had been related to him of the animal's ferocity. His
opinion would never alter. The bull had been the
immediate cause of the Earl's death. Why was the
horse, when he came back without his rider, trembling ?
Why was his neck steaming with sweat ? Sir Courteney
well remembered once having heard his unfortunate
friend say that the bull was jealous of this his
Lordship's favourite horse. Undoubtedly the animal
had attacked the horse, and the excitement or the

VOL. III. N

fall from the horse, accruing from the bull's ferocity,
had caused death.

Do what he would, however, Sir Mounteney could
not succeed in his object. He had attended the inquest
determined to have his own view of the case adopted,
but he cannot criminate the bull sufficiently. Dr.
Softly is determined that the Earl fell from his horse
in a fit, that he died a natural death from apoplexy or
epilepsy. On this Sir Mounteney, with dignity in
his mien, ill-concealed rage on his aristocratic countenance,
takes leave to protest, and insists on having
his protest recorded " before this meeting, this inquiry
is over."

And while the coroner's inquest is going on, the
Lady Georgina is travelling back over that same road
she had but so lately traversed in unwonted flippancy
and liveliness. The young couple had gone on the
day of their marriage to Faulkbourne, the residence of
our poor little Earl when he had been nothing more
than Mr. John Everard Leigh. Eaulkbourne, scarcely
twenty miles distant from Otteley, was beautifully
situated, the house not large but picturesque,  picturesque
in the highest degree ; and its mature age, its
shadowy yew-walks, had led Georgie to speak as
she went along of the white owl hooting, of the black
bat flitting, for there, in unmolested peace, the one and
the other existed. This comfortable residence, with
the 200 acres surrounding it, and 5000 in money,
Lord Bedingfield had settled on his daughter before her
It was the only land unentailed he possessed,

or you may be quite sure Georgie had come off
better. The Earl had also determined to allow his
daughter 1000 a year, and he had stated that
although Faulkbourne might be called her future home,
he himself should consider Otteley his daughter's
proper home, as there she must always abide when
military duty made it imperative for D'Abridgecourt to
be absent. He could not spare his Georgie, and he
thought it a pity Willie should leave the army.

Thus matters had been arranged. A good deal to
D'Abridgecourt's annoyance, he did not like the idea of
leaving his wife at Otteley, and here was one of his
wedding-day grievances.

And now the tables are turned, as Georgie, with her
tear-bedewed handkerchief at her eyes and real grief
in her heart, draws near to Otteley, the home that
had been, and was to have been so entirely at her
disposal, where she was everything and Stephen nothing
; the Abbey which now is her brother's, and in
the future is it likely she will condescend to use it ?

From time to time as they journey on, Drawbridges
gazes on his weeping wife. He scarce dare
attempt to speak. How can he offer consolation ? He
knows that Georgie and her father have been united by
real tenderness, and he knows, besides, that much of
the young girl's worldly comfort has been suddenly
dashed away  reft from her. How thankful is the
grave and somewhat stern young soldier then, when they
are within a few miles of Otteley, how thankful is he to
hear his Georgie say, and her tears gush faster as she
says it, " Willie, I shiver all over ; put your arm round

me, come close to me. Oh, Willie ! I seem to have
nothing to cling to now but you, and I am afraid I
shall be almost a burden to you."

Oh, Georgie," murmurs her lover, " if indeed you
would condescend to be wholly mine, I should almost
be wicked enough to rejoice in this dreadful accident.
I could not bear the idea of leaving you at Otteley."

I would have done anything to satisfy him, poor
dear," cries the girl, weeping anew ; " and if it gave him
any comfort, I am thankful I did not contradict him.
But indeed, Willie, I did not consider much about
the future ; so long as we married, that was the great
point."

What if it had happened but a few days earlier ?
Then we should have had to wait ; and when once a
thing is put off, God only knows what may come,"
says D'Abridgecourt.

Well," answers the girl, " you are sure enough of
me as it is, and I repeat what I just now said : I fear
I may prove but a burden, a trouble. Poor dear papa
has been so mad about farming and breeding, and he
was so ridiculously munificent to his work-people, I
quite believe, Willie, I shall prove to you an incumbrance."


To feel that you were all my own were everything.
But, ah ! my poor Georgie, perhaps existence to you on
such terms were grievous."

I am afraid I should not understand, brought upas
I have been. You know mamma is so careless
about money ; she never takes heed of expense."

Willie sighs deeply. His little flush of hope is over.

He has had to economise, he has had to practise self-denial
all his young life. But Georgie would not be
able to understand. Ah, yes, he can comprehend that
the little wife will he a sufferer every way by her
father's death.

We must now return to our Helene, from whom we
shall scarcely stray again.

'Tis over ; the event predicted by Dr. Softly to
happen in May, that which the girl had regarded with
so much depression of spirit, has unfolded its mystery.
After a long and lingering suspense, extending over
many more hours than was natural or proper, after
the doctor had experienced considerable alarm, the girl
has become a mother. And now is grief and fear
added to her previous suffering when in voices of
triumphant gladness the women tell her she has a fine
boy.

We presently find Sir Charles approaching the poor
pale ghost of our earlier Helene. Leaning over the
wan warlike figure of the little wife as she lies still
and deathlike in the great nuptial bed, he whispers
sadly, " My love, I know that I may not congratulate

you."

The girl slightly moves her head in token that he is
right, her lips tremble.

My dear child," continues our master, his voice
betraying an agitation he fain had hidden, "my dear
child, everything shall be done that can be done to

lighten the blow. I purpose sending off St. Amour
in an hour's time with my letter to his last address.
Even if he has left Calais, St. Amour will be able to
find him."

"What have you thought of saying?" feebly ask the
girl's quivering lips.

That I regard him as a son, that I must ever do
so, and that I shall provide for him accordingly."

An elder son ?" murmurs the girl.

My love, in one respect that cannot be."

I know," answers she, " but as regards money ? "

Yes, yes, and I will not fail to add that if possible his
present and pressing necessities shall be attended to."

"Stoop down and kiss me," murmurs our poor
Helene ; " the doctor bade me not sit up."

How fondly, how tenderly, how almost reverentially
our master avails himself of the girl's permission, and
that kiss is supplemented by a sigh, a sigh of penitence,
of contrition. Ah ! she read the heart that strove to,
yet could not, hide its anguish.

Do not be afraid," she whispers, " I shall not die.
The doctor says I am all right now."

Sir Charles did not answer, but his dark eyes told
of a love, of a passion too deep for words, while the
consciousness that he might have spared her, and had
not spared, gave to his ever spirituel countenance an
expression indescribable, an expression Helene fully
comprehended. He had wrought all this evil. Yet
as she gazed, as she sighed, she loved her Saint, her
fallen Saint, still.

Recollecting himself, recalling the duty he has to

perform, Sir Charles tells her " he must not linger.
We shall be easier, we shall be better content," murmurs
he, " when our messenger is on his way."

'Tis past midnight. In that large, low-ceiled chamber
dedicated in his boyhood wholly to the use of
Tresham Daubigny, wanders now the shade, the wreck
of its former master. His presence at Brierly is
unsuspected by Sir Charles. It is indeed a secret
intrusted by young Daubigny only to St. Amour. The
chamber is but dimly lighted. There are no signs of
recent occupation. On the contrary, it has a forlorn, a
forsaken look. Yes, that chamber that in years gone
by had rung with a boy's frolicsome mirth, which in
later years had been scattered over with evidences of
luxury, of waste, of sport, of sin, where ofttimes had
been carolled forth the snatch of a too amorous song,
where many an oath had resounded 'mid the chat and
the chaff of less happy and less fortunate companions,
that chamber to-night is an utter desolation. Silent
it is save for the weary footfall of our prodigal, as with
unequal strides he paces to and fro. This silence is,
however, broken presently. St. Amour enters by the
door which purposely had been left ajar.

Capitaine," murmurs the valet, " if you must see
mi Ladie, 'tis now you go ; she sleep."

"How do you know?" asks Daubigny, pausing in
his troubled walk and questioning St. Amour as much
by his eyes as by his voice.

Mais, oui, certainement. Hannah pass from de
room. She tell me she is glad to say mi Ladi sleep

at last. I let de maid go her way et puis moi, myself,
I steal in. By mi Ladi's breathing I could tell she
sleep. That cunning docteur give her something make
her sleep. Then, Capitaine, I steal to de door of de
ante-chamber. Dere de nurse sleep too in great chair.
Child, de curst beetle one, sleep in her arms, de beetle
silver boat and de food stand by."

 Why do you tell me of the child ?" asks Daubigny
somewhat impatiently. " I care not for the child. 'Tis
herself once more I would behold." He is going, he
reaches the door, he turns back. " Suppose any one
should be in the corridor ; suppose some one meet me ?"

No one will be dere, de docteur go home. Before he
go he bids every one be still. No foot dare venture."

Then," murmurs Tresham, " I will try my fortune,"
and he disappears. Strong as nature had formed him,
he feels his heart fluttering ; he feels an oppression
almost approaching to faintness as he steals along the
well-known corridor, and on reaching the door of the
girl's apartment he is compelled to pause a moment to
try and recover a greater degree of composure.

Helene sleeps under the influence of opium administered
by our doctor, hence her slumber is heavier, deeper
than if nature or mere weariness had prompted it.

Tresham puts out a hand that is not over steady, and
gently lifts the heavy damask curtain of the nuptial
bed, and then his eyes take their last view of the only
being he had ever really loved, and for whose sake he
had often fancied he could have renounced his dissolute
habits and curtailed his extravagance. He gazes on
her long, and as he gazes sigh after sigh breaks from

his sinful and bis stricken soul. Sorrow, overwhelming
sorrow is his portion. He would have cursed her if he
could for this last indignity her marriage had brought
upon him. But love yet holds him in its thrall. He
cannot choose but love her to the end.

Even in this her sickness, as she lies so near akin to
the image of death, for him she is fraught with angelic
loveliness. Her cheek has lost its childlike roundness,
it has wholly lost its roseate hue. But the tawny
lashes tipped with jet rest on its warlike paleness,
and the pencilled brow above is perfect, and the lips,
though paler, still are those sweet parted, pouting lips
he always longed to kiss and might not. He covets,
he desires her; yet he would not have her live when
he himself must die.

Let me hope," muses the ever selfish sinner, " let
me hope that we shall die by the same blow. Let me
hope that the news of my death may be her own.
Women in her state, women in childbed, I have heard,
I have read, are like to die of a too sudden shock."

At this moment, as thus Daubigny muses, the girl
stirs, moves restlessly in her sleep. She throws one
arm up, and the loose frilled sleeve of her night-dress
falls back and leaves bare her arm,  that arm that
Tresham had been wont to think, if it had a fault, was
too sunny in its hue, too round, too childlike in its
form. How changed he sees that once gipsy-like arm !
Ah ! now its creamy, sunny hue is gone ; 'tis almost
thin, and the little hand is white, is wasted too.

Instinctively he knows that anxiety, wasting sorrow
fur himself, has wrought this change. But the girl is

restless. She may waken. She may utter some wild
cry. He dare not linger. He kisses the arm she has
flung up, and he is gone.

With noiseless steps Daubigny returns along the
corridor to the low-ceiled chamber called his own. All
hardened as he is, to-night he cannot enter it without
some sense of additional pain. He has reached the
ante-chamber attached to that chamber ; at present he
lingers here, he goes no further.

We have once before mentioned that in this
ante-chamber is a boot rack ; there is also in it a
gun-rack.

Tresham had always been a creature of extremes.
His soul, his body seemed composed of two opposing
natures. His toilet-table, in his happier, earlier days,
displayed all the refinement of a high-bred or a modish
woman's ; his ante chamber or his dressing-room,
ever distinguished by weapons, by implements that
would seem to mock at the scent-bottle, the ring-stand,
the jewel-case.

Daubigny has reached the ante-chamber. At present
he goes no further. He pauses before the gun-rack ;
he takes down a once favourite gun. As he is carefully,
critically examining the gun, St. Amour, ever
on the alert, glides in. Daubigny starts as the valet
speaks, for he knew not of his presence.

Pardon," says the man, " they will not bring de
worth of feefty pound sold en precipitation. Wait,
Capitaine, attendez."

"Did I say I meant to sell them?" asks the young
master, a strange smile playing on his lips as he speaks.

"Ah ! I had forgotten. Well, I am not going to sell
them." Then, after an instant's silence and irresolution,
he adds : " St. Amour, I may as well tell you at once.
The governor offers to make a complete settlement of
my affairs, and he has also offered Avonmore as a place
of retreat while the settlement is in progress. I am, in
fact, on my way to Avonmore, there to lie quiet and
incog, until the settlement be effected. I have trusted
you often, St. Amour, and found you a safe man, or
to-night I would not trust you with my place of
rustication. By God, if they got scent of it, a hundred
avaricious and voracious sharks would be down upon
me, thinking first come first served."

The valet, gazing on his fellow sinner, bows his head
respectfully in token of assent.

1 shall want a gun then, this gun. The governor
gave it me once as a birthday present. It 's a good gun,
it 's brought down lots of birds," and Tresham points it
as though he were aiming now at a bird. " Has bathurst
cleaned them lately?" he asks.

La semaine passee, Capitaine," answers the valet.

Well, where 's the case belonging to this gun ? it
must be unscrewed and put into the case."

De case in my room."

Will you see about it ? There should be a flask
too ; there was one."

De flask I put away ; its poudre not safe about."

Well, you must find it ready. And did you go to
the people at the ' Crown' and bid them have a chaise
and horses waiting at the cross roads ?"

Qui, certainement, it will be dere."

I shall have to walk from here to the cross roads ;
can you carry the gun-case ? "

St. Amour bowing, answers that he shall be too
happy.

Then Tresham bids the man leave him, as he has to
look for " some papers that are somewhere," and he has
also to write a letter.

And now that he is alone, Daubigny enters the
deserted-looking chamber within. As he gazes round,
an intense misery almost masters his usual levity ; but,
making an effort to be cool and philosophic, he feels in
his waistcoat pocket for a small key. He has found
the key, and, with it in his hand, he walks up to an
old-fashioned escritoire of our great-grandfather's days,
puts the key into the lock, unlocks it. The front of
this old escritoire is made to come down ; 'tis lined
with crimson cloth, and thus is formed a desk to write
on. In one of the escritoire's drawers he knows there
are some particular papers that he would not leave
behind him. He proceeds to ransack the drawers, but
before he can do this he must needs remove a pile of
letters that at one time or other he had thrust in here
out of his sight. He takes them up, he becomes conscious
that some of them are letters, unopened letters,
addressed to himself from his sister's governess, from
the unfortunate girl whom he had ruined, and who, but
for his uncle's compassion and generosity, might have
perished of weakness and want.

The colour rises to his brow as he casts them down,
for though no tender memory of the governess assails

him, though he feels no pity for her, a tide of painful
recollection, in which she mingles, rises to haunt him.
He leans his elbows on the crimson desk of the
escritoire, and cannot proceed rapidly to work as he
had intended. Not long, not long, however, does he
suffer such weakness to hold him. He searches further,
he finds the papers he seeks. They are transferred to
his coat pocket. And now, now one last, sad, cruel act
remains to do, and all will be over with him then in life.

He is about to write to Helene. He intends to write
in such a manner that she may believe his death to be
wholly attributable to herself. He will waken her
tenderness, he will recall their early love, he would
stab her to the heart. He hopes that the words he
writes may blast her as the lightning sometimes blasts.
Such is the vengeance he would take upon the man
who wooed and won the girl by stealth ; such is the only
boon he craves, that she too may perish.

Wild and impassioned were the words, the last words
the sinner's hand e'er set on paper ; such words as only
a heart seared, steeped in wickedness, could breathe or
think.

But we must confess there was something deeply
moving in the finish of the letter. He was on his way
to Avonmore. There, 'mid those sheltering rocks where
once he had embraced her, there, 'mid the rocks, the
water flags by the river's side, there would he die.

Bid them," he wrote, " bid them make my grave
there  there where I shall fall. I ask no holier ground,
no funeral rite. The murmuring stream shall moan meas
it flows, nor cease its pitying murmur ever."

Even in the hardest natures there is a shrinking
when death draws very near, and Tresham's soul
shuddered now, and his hand seemed averse to giving
the letter signifying his own death. He delays giving
the letter until the last minute.

St. Amour and he set out from Brierly at sunrise
that lovely summer morning. They walked together
through a long winding country lane, till they reached
the cross roads. There, where a white sign-post marks
the spot to-day, just as it did then, pointing its arms
in four several directions  there, drawn up beside the
rugged patch of green whereon the sign-post stands,
they see the chaise and pair, the post-boy out of his
saddle waiting for the early traveller.

And now comes the worst. Daubigny must give
the letter. And when once it has passed from his own
hands into the keeping of another, there is no drawing
back. Death, only death will be present to his mind.

Pausing in the green lane where the wild hawthorn
hedge beside and above them is alive with joyous birds,
carolling forth their matin song, pausing so far off
from where the hired carriage is stationed that the boy
cannot overhear their discourse, Tresham lays a hand
on the valet's shoulder, a hand that, despite of rowing,
boxing, dragging at reins, is still small, white, symmetrical.


My good fellow," says he, " you have been faithful
to me hitherto. There is something yet I must get you
to do."

St. Amour raises his eyes to his companion's countenance.
He is rather struck by its paleness. There

is, too, a sort of smile on the lips that is in contrast to
the expression of the eyes ; it seems to him to be an
affected smile. He listens 

This letter," continues Daubigny, holding the letter
in his own hand, " this letter I have written to her.
You must give it to her on Monday evening."

It is not permit for me to enter mi Ladi's chamber,"
answers the Frenchman ; " I can give it to de maid."

No," continues Daubigny, " that will not do. You
yourself must place it in her hand or before her."

The valet nods his head, but seems doubtful whether
he shall be able to accomplish the desired errand. The
fact is, he has been accustomed to receive a bribe or
reward, and Daubigny, in his distress and confusion of
mind, has omitted to mention the price he will pay.
Now, however, when he sees St. Amour hang back, he
recollects himself.

I have taken one gun," he says, " I have left two ;
appropriate the two. Do what you will with them.
I give them as a reward for this last, this particular
service."

St. Amour recovers his wonted alacrity. With
mercis and bows he promises.

She will not betray you," continues the young
master. " She never has, she never will. You promise
me you will give her the letter on Monday evening
when my uncle is down-stairs, safe at the dinner -
table."

I promise, Capitaine, merci, votre tres-obeissant,"
murmurs the valet, bowing.

I shall know that she receives it," says Gresham, a

lie on his lips to the last. " I have asked her to make
a request to my uncle, a particular request. He will
write to me granting it or not, as may best suit his
fancy."

As he walks towards the chaise Tresham gives the
letter. "Put it into your breast-pocket," he says.
Mind that no eye but your own rests upon it, and let
no one know that I have been at Brierly. I thank
you, St. Amour. Good-bye."

The man bows low, and with apparently the deepest
respect. Then he deposits the gun-case in the hired
carriage, the door of which the post-boy holds open.
In another instant Daubigny places himself on the
shabby cushioned seat, the door of the vehicle is
slammed to, the post-boy mounts his sorry but obedient
jade, and St. Amour and his fellow-sinner shall meet
on earth no more.

VOL. in.

Perhaps Graham had never been so elated as now.
His peerage case was once more before the House of
Lords. The Committee for Privileges had listened to,
had already remarked favourably on the revised evidence
and its important addenda.

One great lawyer, a member of this erudite Committee,
had been heard in private discourse to say, " That
the missing link that, on the previous hearing of the
case, could not for love or money be found, had, as by
a miracle, turned up at length, for nothing."

There had been an adjournment of the proceedings,
but there was every reason to believe that next time
the Committee sat in consideration of the case, it would
pronounce in favour of our claimant, and George would
see the ambitious dream of his life realised. He
would legally become a Scottish Earl. He had been so
intensely interested, watching over his chance, his hope
of future nobility, that Helene and Sir Charles had
heard from him seldom of late. But now that his
affairs were in so fair a train, now that he was proclaimed
a grandfather, he had written to his daughter
congratulating her, and playfully asking for her congratulations
in return. The warmth and tenderness
with which he wrote of " the cursed beetle life," as St.

Amour called the new-born child, surprised Helene.
She had never for a moment imagined that such an
event would please her father. It did please him so,
however, or the idea of his approaching nobility had so
favourable an effect on his temper, that at the end of
his letter he proposed, when it might be convenient, to
make a flying visit to Brierly.

Though full of anxiety, Sir Charles had answered
the letter in the most courteous and cordial manner,
asking Graham to name a day in the week following
that in which he himself wrote, " when he hoped Helene
would be somewhat advanced towards convalescence."

In answer, Graham had fixed a day, or rather an
evening, on which to arrive. He would be at Brierly
half an hour before the usual dinner-time.

Helene, who was now well enough to sit up in bed
and write with a pencil, wrote a few words to her
father, suggesting that he came quite an hour earlier
than he had named, as she intended to try and be upto
receive him, and thought if his visit to her room
were so late as after dinner, her strength might not
hold out.

The girl has a satisfactory answer, and at length the
day of the promised visit arrives.

Poor dear Helene ! she has not lately cared how
she looks. But now, the day that her George is to see
her, she does care. She bids Hannah pull the blinds
up, she bids her set a looking-glass before her on the
bed. Until now the girl had suffered Hannah to do
with her as she would ; never since the day of her confinement
had she called for a glass. As she gazes now

into the mirror placed before her, she is almost startled
at the vision she beholds ; she is almost shocked at her
own wanness and delicacy. She looks more like a
spirit from another world than the formerly voluptuous
and almost too rosy Helene Graham. Yet vanity, and
Helene always has vanity, vanity tells her that she is
not unlovely even in this her sickness ; and, to see her
father, who is such an intense critic in such matters,
she resolves to do her best to escape remark.

Oiseau and Hannah tell her that ladies, after their
confinement, always appear at first in a cap. The girl
bethinks herself how a cap is to be manufactured ; she
calls for a little lace fichu, with a few pins she pins it
presently into a form that will do. A frilled and embroidered
white muslin sitting-up gown is to be put
over her night-gown, her little feet she insists on
having dressed as usual in thin kid shoes, and, despite
Oiseau's caution, she must have cobwebby silk stockings.
"How can I catch cold," murmurs the little
invalid, " when I shall scarcely move, and in this hot
room?" And if a young mother should ever read
Helene's story, will she not wonder somewhat that the
poor little baby's costume and appearance, on its first
introduction to its fastidious grandfather, should have
no place in Helene's thoughts ? Some young mothers
think perhaps too much of their baby's adornment.
But to Helene's child a history so sad attached as
rendered it in her eyes but a painful object. It had
come into the world to blast the hopes of, to set a
mark of indignity upon the man for whom, despite her
every endeavour, she could not feel indifference.

When, very soon after its birth, our doctor had informed
her that its very life depended on its drawing
nourishment from herself, she had submitted to necessity.
At stated times the child was brought to her.
When the maternal duty was over, it was carried
away into an adjoining room.

Never once had she manifested any interest in this
token of her sorrow, never had she asked to see it
between-whiles. Sir Charles had been wise indeed in
instituting Mrs. Bird as its nurse. The doctor had
objected, had spoken of old-fashioned notions, had
wanted a nurse of his own finding to preside. But Sir
Charles had been unmoved by the doctor's representations.
He knew Mrs. Bird. He could trust her entirely.
She alone should be the infant's nurse.

Graham, according to his engagement, arrives at
Brierly. He is presently introduced to the lying-in
chamber. Unconscious of Helene's acquaintance with
and attachment to Daubigny, he is wholly unsuspicious
of the anxiety that for months has been preying on her
mind. He is surprised, nay, almost shocked at the
alteration he finds in his daughter, but the girl tells
him (blushing as she says it) that her paleness, her
thinness, arises from her extreme illness at the time of
the birth of her child. George, on hearing this, and
taking it for truth, considers that time only is wanting
for her restoration to her former self. But he cannot
help saying something in his old half-sarcastic, hall-playful
way, as soon as Sir Charles comes up-stairs,
Why, Charles, what have you been about ? Where

are my daughter's peach-like cheeks, her rosebud lips,
her gipsy hands ? Why, old fellow, you have changed
my little girl into a lackadaisical-looking fine lady.
She looks as though she had been blanched. I came
to see my own opening rosebud, and I find but a pale
drooping lily."

"I think," answers our master, "Helene will acquit
me of carelessness. Since I became aware that she
was likely  likely  to increase my family, no day has
passed without the visit of a skilful, an experienced
ladies' doctor."

That 's just how the girl has been robbed of her
colour and her flesh. For God's sake, Charles, send
the doctor to the devil. My dear Helene, whatever he
prescribes for the future throw out of the window,
throw it on to the lawn, and you 11 find the grass will
presently look as sickly as yourself."

Indeed, papa' murmurs Helene, laughing for the
first time since her hour or hours of anguish, " indeed,
I do not think the doctor has poisoned me. He is very
innocent, except of intense curiosity."

Am I not to see my grandson ?" exclaims George.
Do you suppose that i" have no curiosity ?"

"Do you wish to see it?" says Helene, blushing
deeply. " Charles, dear, will you tell Mrs. Bird ?"

Our poor master ! With a sigh he strives to suppress,
he opens the door of an adjoining room, bids Mrs. Bird
bring the child. With a delighted smile on her face
the old nurse obeys, and curtsying to Graham, exhibits
the sleeping child which she carries.

For its age it was a fine child, although it had

suffered from the distraction of Helene's mind. Mrs.
Bird had not forgotten its adornment though the young
mother had. In those days caps for infants were not
extinct, and it was habited in a robe and cap of costliest
embroidery and lace.

Graham gazed upon the child, and as he gazed the
unconscious cause of so much sorrow opened its eyes.
They were long shaped eyes, like our master's ; like
his, they were also large and dark. Cries George, " You
have set a mark upon the boy, Charles. No one could
mistake him ; he is a thorough Daubigny. His eyes
will be exactly like your own."

Oh, he is all his," answers Helene. " I never
wished for a child."

That is a foolish thing to say, Helene," replies
Graham. " And for my part, I welcome the little
fellow from my soul. Oiseau," cries he playfully, " you
never thought to be carrying my grandson."

No, sir," says the old dame, curtsying again.
Indeed, sir, I never thought to see the day when my
master would have a son of his own for me to nurse."

And he 's shown his wisdom, Oiseau, in giving
the boy to you. None of your learned doctrine
nurses for me. The old style 's the best."

"You can take the child away now, Mrs. Bird,"
says Sir Charles.

Graham departs to dress for dinner, and Sir Charles
is alone with the little wife. Our master congratulates
the girl on George's spirits, on his looking so well.
Faintly Helene smiles. She is thinking how strange
it is that he can so entirely have forgotten her dead
mother. Sir Charles, perhaps, has the same thought,
but they are too painful thoughts for either to venture
to utter. The clock, Tresham's chiming clock, tells
him he must go. He takes the little wan hand in his
own, he says, " My love, just a little morsel of chicken.
Will you only try now ? Hannah can bring it up on a
tray." His dark eyes look so anxious, so tender, so
beseeching, the girl has not the heart to refuse. And
our master goes off to his bachelor room, thankful that
Helene will try to eat some dinner.

Sir Charles had at first thought of dining quite alone
with his once hated rival, now his gracious father-in-law
; but somehow he could never feel at his ease
with him. A certain degree of awkwardness, an unconquerable
consciousness must stalk between them.
And little as he cares for Sir Mounteney, he thinks his
presence will be a relief. Yes, Sir Mounteney might

suit George ; they would talk to each other, and he
knows in what estimation a title is held by his reverence,
and he feels pretty certain Graham will soon
let the parson understand that one is coming his way.

So a note is despatched to the reverend baronet.
This makes three," muses our sensitive master.
Softly, poor Softly, might not he be present too ?  a
little compliment after all his attention."

Sir Charles always pitied the broken-down, the ailing
physician, flung by destiny as in sport, from a splendid
London practice to remote village life.

'Tis no difficult matter, my reader, for thine imagination
to picture our four men dining together at Brierly
this lovely June evening.

George loves late hours. Our master knows that
George detests dining early, so dinner had been ordered
an hour later than usual.

The weather, though so early in the summer, is
oppressively warm,  so w 7 arm that a great window at
the far end of the dining-room is thrown wide open.
Laden with the perfume of jessamine, of roses, of honeysuckle
trained round the pillars of the glass covered
verandah, the stilly air comes stealing softly into the
stately apartment, mingling when in the room with the
fragrance, the odour of sliced cucumber handed round
by the attendant servants,  the cucumber an adjunct
to a fine salmon-trout or salmon-pink, which had been
caught in the river Wye where the Wye bounds the
vast domain of Avonmore. In honour of Graham's
first visit at Brierly, the sideboard glitters with plate,

and the table too ; and the dinner is recherches in the
extreme.

'Tis almost the twilight hour of June. The sun gives
token even now of its departure. A crimson or a
roseate glow suffuses all the western sky, and those who
are at table can, through the scarcely moving leaves,
discern the rosy glory of approaching eve. They can
hear, too, the glad voices of the birds coming from amid
the garden shrubs. How sweet, unhurried, how liquid,
soft, and clear rises one silvery voice ! 'Tis the black-cup's
summer note. And far in distance, from the
mighty oaks that stud the park, sing blackbirds, thrushes,
in a wilder and more varied strain. 'Tis still daylight
out of doors, but the verandah running round the house
diminishes the daylight within, and the old butler
thinks it high time now to give our diners the benefit
of artificial light. He has just ordered Tummas (our
old friend Tummas) to set light to the waxen tapers in
the tall branch candlesticks on the table. But the
window is not closed, and the fading daylight, the sweet-scented
air still steals in.

Ah ! how placid, how comfortable a picture of a
small dinner in the country is here !

And the discourse between Graham and the parson
has already begun to grow interesting. Sir Mounteney
is just emerging from a haze of doubt and suspicion,
which from the time of Sir Charles's marriage he had
cherished. He is fain now to confess to himself that he
has laboured under a mistake, that Lady Daubigny's
father, instead of being a mere adventurer, as he had
believed him to be, is a man of distinguished family

and considerable fortune, while his eyes tell him that
never have they rested on a more noble-looking figure
of a man.

The parson, too, perceives that Graham is very
nearly as consequential as himself, and this sympathetic
quality seems to attract them, while it tends somewhat
to subdue the aristocratic rector's pious arrogance.

They have other points of resemblance, other con-generalities.
Their appetites are as exigeante as their
pride, yet are they both epicures. And now each of
the twain has been diving into an entre presented,
offered by Jeames,  an entre thoroughly Parisian,
which St. Amour some idle day has taught the Brierly
cook how to make in perfection.

Let us leave them bestowing their praises on the
same and ascend to Helene's room.

The girl is still sitting up. According to the promise
Sir Charles had induced her to make, she intends at
his dinner-time to try and eat a piece of chicken. She
waits ; at length Hannah appears bearing the tray
The old maid sets it down on a small table she had
placed ready before she went down-stairs. As she sets
it down she says in her precise manner, " I trust,
Madam, I have brought everything you require."

Helene arising, seats herself before the tray. She
takes a tiny bit of chicken, half a spoonful of pease.
"Hannah," she says, "you have forgotten the salt."

Is it possible ?" cries the old maid ; " why, I placed
a silver salt-cellar on the tray with my own hands."
She comes to look, but the salt indeed is wanting. " I
will go immediately," she says, " and bring it. But

how it could be I cannot think ;" and Hannah runs
down-stairs.

St. Amour, who had been on the watch, who had
purposely abstracted the salt-cellar from the tray while
it waited in the hall below,  St. Amour now, in the
maid's absence, enters the lying-in chamber. He
says not a word, he walks stealthily up to the table
before which mi Ladi sits, and deposits on the damask
napkin that covers the tray Tresham's letter.

He is gone, and the girl, with a thrill of unconquerable
feeling running through her veins at the sight of
Daubigny's handwriting, tears open the letter.

What does she read ? Is she in her senses ? Does
he mean death,  that he is about to die by his own
hand ? Never very clear about time and dates, Helene's
brain grows bewildered. Her only hope is that by
showing the letter to her husband, his nephew's desperate
design may be frustrated. By the time Hannah
returns bearing the salt, the girl has read the letter in
part, has gathered sufficiently its meaning to know
that Tresham contemplates suicide. In her confusion
of mind it appears to her, however, that even yet his
fatal determination may be changed.

Go," cries she as Hannah approaches her, " go
instantly to your master ; tell him not to waste a
second ; tell him to come to me instantly, or it may be
too late."

Helene had risen from her chair ; one hand clutched
at the chair-back for support, in the other was the
open letter. The girl's deathlike paleness and the
wild glory of her affrighted eyes sufficiently attest to

Hannah the necessity of speed. The woman, of course,
could form no notion of what was the matter, but she
could tell that something in that open letter there was
of frightful import.

For once in her life the formal old maid is led to
break through all propriety. She sends no message,
she goes into the dining-room herself, she hastily approaches
Sir Charles, nay, even ventures to touch his
shoulder ; then, in trembling accents, whispers her
lady's message.

Our poor master's heart, nay, his very soul faints
within him as he listens. He rises abruptly from table,
he utters no single word, he flies up-stairs.

Not very far had he to go. The poor girl, so fearful
of delay, had recovered herself sufficiently to quit her
room, cross the landing, reach the top of the first flight
of stairs ; there, leaning on the banisters he finds her.

Charles," cries she, holding out the letter, " read it ;
tell me, is there time to save him ?"

Our master takes the letter from her trembling hand,
by the light of the globe-lamp at the head of the staircase
he reads. Alas ! he presently comprehends better
than herself. But commanding his agitation to spare
her, keeping the fearful misgiving of his soul to himself,
he says, " My child, I will despatch some one to
Avonmore immediately. Let us hope  "

Who ? who ? " cries she.

Who but St. Amour ?"

He knows not the spot," murmurs she, the most
wretched, the bitterest of anguish overwhelming her;
you, pray go yourself."

No, my poor love ; I dare not leave you. But in
this house is one who knows every crevice, every rock
at Avonmore."

Yes, yes," cries she hoarsely ; " it matters not now.
Tell papa I cannot see him, I am too ill, but that I beg,
I beseech him to go." As the poor girl spoke these
last sad words, she sank on the oaken stair. " Leave
me," she continues ; " think nothing of me. If there
is hope, it is in despatch."

Happily for Helene, she had suffered inadvertently
her husband to keep the letter. Never ready at making
out days and hours, her head bewildered, she yet clung
to hope.

If Sir Charles had longer attempted simulation with
Graham, we should not have liked him so well. He
felt but too certain from what he had read in the letter
that Tresham was bent on self-destruction, then rose to
our master's imagination a fearful possibility, the possibility
of a lingering death. Yes, Tresham might not
have died instantly, he might even yet be alive in that
secluded nook among the rocks, incapable of moving,
unseen, dying without a human hand to aid him.

He must induce Graham, who knew it so well, to goto
the spot. But how would it be possible to induce
him, unless he knew that his own daughter was in
some measure implicated, and that on her must fall the
deepest anguish ?

There was but one course to pursue, and Sir Charles,
with a brow blushing, burning with agitation, agitation
arising from various sources, bids Graham read the
letter.

Until that letter was placed before him, young Daubigny's
particular intimacy with Helene had never been
suspected by her father. What then was the shock
he experienced when he found by the allusions made
in that letter that he who wrote it had met the girl in

private, that his arm had encircled her childish form,
and that she unresisting had allowed such familiarity,
nay, had reciprocated her lover's rapture ?

"And you overlooked, you concealed this?" says
George, looking up from the letter, gazing on his companion,
and almost trembling with anger against his
child, with rage against the sinner.

I would never have betrayed her imprudence,"
answers our master, " but now to yourself it is perhaps
advisable that I do so. It is possible that," and here
Sir Charles absolutely shed some tears, " it is possible
that on his person may be tokens of his mad attachment.
George," he continued, " you love her as I love
her. If there be any such evidence, your hand can do
what prudence prompts, and this" pursues the jealous
husband, taking from Graham the fatal communication,
this should perish too."

I see the necessity you indicate," cries Graham.
I am indeed the fittest person to make a search for
the wretched scoundrel, but wherefore should St. Amour
accompany me ? "

Ah !" cries Sir Charles, " it is useless endeavouring
to keep St. Amour in the dark. I have many reasons
for believing that all along he has had the most intimate
connection with my hapless nephew. George,
'tis safer to seem to trust him. I have no doubt that
he could tell far more than I should care to hear."

By God, Charles," exclaims Graham, " you make
my blood run chill ! What am I to infer from this
mystery ?' Does it relate to Helene ? I told you that
passion would be her inheritance."

Compose yourself," says our master ; " there is
nothing absolutely wrong ; Helene has not erred, save
mentally. I am convinced that she has never deceived
me. I was perfectly aware of that hour of imprudence
he alludes to ; aware of it the very evening of the day
on which it occurred."

Graham gazes on his old rival, and something like
gratitude is born in his soul. Who but he, knowing
what he had known, had shielded, had hidden, had
forgiven her trespass, and made her his wife ?

George," continues Sir Charles, " I shall consider
myself indebted to you to the last moment of my life
if you will but hasten to that spot now made doubly,
trebly sad to me. Your search will tend to satisfy her
as well as myself. But God only knows how she may
sustain the shock."

I go," answers Graham, " but 'tis I who must owe
you a debt of gratitude. Charles, I see, I comprehend ;
you saved her, you snatched her from impending ruin."

Go, only go," answers our master ; " I am expecting
the carriage every instant."

On this Graham quits the room, hastens up-stairs.
For the time being he lays aside the prestige of his
nobility. He leaves the fine valet he had brought
down with him at Brierly. He takes his way once
more to the banks of the Wye, almost feeling as sad as
when he had been the steward at Avonmore.

VOL. III.

No railroads at this time existed in several of the
counties through which lay Graham's route to Avon-more,
consequently the mournful errand he had
undertaken must occupy times It was not until the
fourth day from that of his departure that he reappeared
at Brierly.

Helene had scarcely slept during her father's absence.
No one had been able to persuade her the first night
after she had read the fatal letter even to lie down, but
agitation of mind had produced so great a weakness
that the power of sitting up had deserted her, and since
then, as now, in wakeful, feverish wretchedness, propped
up by pillows, she reclines upon the bed. On the
announcement of Graham's return to Brierly, Charles
Daubigny, with beating heart, with throbbing temples,
goes hastily down-stairs to meet him in the hall, to
caution him not to shock the poor girl by any sudden
and cruel disclosure. But George takes a very different
view of the matter from our master.

I shall see her," he says ; " I shall briefly state
what has been the result of my search. I shall speak
without any regard, any deference, to the feeling my

narration may excite. She shall at least know my
feeling in the matter."

Finding it impossible to prevent the interview, our
master returns to the poor girl, and, with his accustomed
tenderness, says, " My love, your father wishes to come
up-stairs and see you."

"Oh, I cannot see him," cries Helene; "I dare not,
I cannot. Beg him to tell you."

"My poor child, he will not be denied;" and even
as the husband speaks, the father, without waiting,
enters the nuptial chamber.

I have done as you desired, Helene," says George,
in a voice that almost savoured of sternness ; " my
errand is accomplished. On arriving at Avonmore I lost
no time, I went straight to the spot he specified, to the
spot where you suffered his embrace, where his lips lied
to you of love. He was there ; he was cold and dead
and stiff. He had not given himself a chance of escape ;
he had literally blown out his miserable brains. And
now, hear me and forget it not : had I known as much
as I know now some months ago, perhaps a year ago, I
could not have restrained myself  I had perhaps spared
him the trouble ; I had sent him to the perdition he
deserves a little earlier."

For pity's sake be silent," cries Sir Charles, pointing
to the hapless girl, who had fallen into a deathlike
swoon.

I have done," says Graham ; " I have told her my
mind. You, Charles, may pour in what balm you
choose,  foster the wound if you will," and Graham
speaks with almost a sneer ; " but for myself, I shall

show no pity for a sentimental, nay, a sinful passion,
a girl's romantic dream. Eemember, however, old
fellow, I warned you ; I felt certain, sooner or later,
how it would be."

Think not of me," murmurs Sir Charles, a burning
blush mantling his pale countenance, rising to his very
brow.

I am sorry for you, Charles, nevertheless," continues
Graham, eyeing his former rival, a little secret triumph
in his soul.

Do not add mockery to cruelty," cries our master,
his dark eyes flashing with anger.

George answers nothing. Believing the girl's faintness
to be only an attack such as fine ladies occasionally
sutler from, an hysterical affection soon to pass off, he
goes down-stairs more angry perhaps than sorry, 
angry, resentful of his daughter's past duplicity ; and,
in a few minutes, he has re-entered the carriage in
which he had travelled to Brierly, and is on his way
to London.

It is a morning in July so lovely, that as the swallows
skim joyously around the house and the garden warbler
utters its soft, clear note, and the chaffinch and the
robin give forth their wild bursts of song, and the bees
hum about the ivy blossoms on the roof,  it is a morning
so lovely, and all nature seems so softly to rejoice,
that a stranger gazing on such a scene on such a morning,
would scarcely deem it possible that within doors
is one whose ear is insensible to the song of the birds,
and whose eye heeds not nature's glad tokens shed
around. Never had the garden, the quaint old garden
at Wodebourne more teemed with beauty and with
sweetness. White lilies, long undisturbed, in untold
abundance reared their snowy heads, as old-fashioned
heavy roses without number drooped beneath their own
freight of beauty. Lavender, of its own deep lilac blue,
stands at intervals dividing the parterres as hedges, and
groups of mingled, dark-hued, and pink sweet pease
scent all the air. And the house, too, how rural, how
picturesque it looks ! Nothing had been changed in
or about it since the death of its mistress. And to-day,
on this morning of sunshine and beauty, the boy she

had idolised, the young prodigal who had grieved her
so, the broken-down man to whom she had bequeathed
this her chosen home and nearly all her fortune, occupies
the room wherein, with fluttering heart and eyes that
scarce repressed their tears, he had first heard proclaimed
her love had served him to the end.

Seldom since that sad funereal day has Graham
cared to visit Wodebourne, but he has sought now, for
the present, its seclusion. He would have the news,
the wonder it excites, of Tresham's suicide blow over,
and he waits for other news.

There has been in the Times a notice which affects
him, or which, a day or two ago, did affect him infinitely.
The notice ran as follows :  " Committee of
Privileges.  The Gartmore Peerage case will come
before the Committee again on Friday next." George
knows that on that day the fate of his peerage case
will be decided, and his interest in that fate has been
so intense that he would rather withdraw from the
world's notice, he would rather retire to Wodebourne
until the fate of his suit is declared. He sits this hot
summer day, carelessly attired in rustic garb, but as he
never wears anything but what has been rendered by a
first-rate artist, his russet suit has a style or fashion
about it. Ah ! how lightly has time touched his beauty,
beauty, that beauty with which nature endowed him
remains still. How few can compare with what he is
even now ! Yet to-day, this sweet summer day, his
soul is so bowed down by sorrow that he is ready to cry
out, with the man of wisdom, that " all is vanity."
There lies the letter before him that can make him

careless even of the decision of the Committee of Privileges.
We quote a portion of the letter : 

She is seldom conscious for long together," writes
our master ; " the fever is so great, the pulse so high.
However, my dear George, the physician Softly desired
to have down, and who saw her yesterday, gives most
flattering hopes. You may rest assured that everything
that can be done, shall be. If, in a day or two,
she does not improve, I myself shall insist on the visit
of another London physician of eminence. I need
scarcely speak of myself. You must fully comprehend
the intense misery I am enduring. She knows me
sometimes. Once she called to me to come, once she
feebly put her hand in mine. If she should be taken
from us ! . . . "

