CHAPTER I.

"HERE are some places still, even in
crowded, depopulated England,
where Nature holds her own  some
nooks and corners, not always the farthest
from the haunts of men, where she seems to
have entrenched herself and to defy the destroyer
to enter.

Of course, when we come to look closer,

Queen Nature has not kept her sway unaided ;

there are perhaps agricultural reasons why

man, the intruder, should have been content

VOL. I. 1

to leave her in possession ; or perhaps some
quiet, unobtrusive devotee at her shrine has
gallantly thrown himself into the breach and
expended life and fortune in defending her
citadel against all comers ; but whatever maybe
the reason, we are no less thankful for the
result.

Down among the Surrey hills, not forty
miles from London, with all its hurrying life
and ceaseless confusion, such a spot is to be
found. As you look at Norton, partly hidden
amongst the great trees that surround it, with
walls covered with ivy and Virginian creeper,
and roof yellow with the lichen and green with
the moss of centuries, sou feel at once that
this is one of Nature's favoured retreats, that
here she has sheltered herself against the
modern invader, and that Norton has stood,
as indeed it has, for hundreds of years, just as
it stands now, quiet and undisturbed.

It is built half-way up a hill, which rises

some hundreds of feet behind it, and up which
steep and narrow pathways, slippery with
fir-needles and with roots intersecting their
surface like the veins of a hand, lead through
pine-woods and undergrowth to the summit
where, even on the hot summer days, breezes
blow refreshingly over miles of heather and
gorse, varied by bogs where the asphodel and
sundew grow. In front of the house lie green
sloping lawns and flower-beds; and beyond,
lanes descend rapidly between tall hedges,
white in spring with blackthorn and may, to
the wooded and cultivated land below.

Xortons itself is simply an old house,
neither castle nor hall, but built solidly, as
our forefathers were accustomed to build their
habitations, not for themselves alone, as we
for the most part are content to build them,
having perhaps lost some of our faith in
posterity, or, at least, having begun to entertain
doubts as to its claims upon our 



iteration, but for their descendants as well ;
and yet, unpretentious as it is, it is not without
stories and traditions of its own. There
is a room, for instance, which the Warrington,
staunch Jacobites and Conservatives though
they had always been, were fond of pointing
out as that in which Oliver Cromwell had
once slept, and which, in these latter days, is
chiefly remarkable for the wild bees which
in summer-time find their way cunningly
through some hole in the thick stone walls,
and buzz about the deep latticed windows
until, poor things, they die of their rashness.
There are, indeed, endless traditions about the
place, for the most part, as such traditions
have a way of being, gloomy and disastrous,
stories of wilful sin and of doomed innocence.

One wonders sometimes why it is that the
tales which cling to those old time-honoured
houses are almost invariably those of sadness
and death and wrong; why so few fair and

pleasant, yes, and blameless, lives are recorded,
such as must surely have been often passed
Within them; lives in which men and women
did their duty, and lived and died well and
nobly, owing' grudges to no man, at peace
with all mankind, and fearing God and not
the Devil, nor those emissaries of his with
whose unwelcome presence places long inhabited
by men have been so often credited.
Let us hope it is because such lives are too
common to be recorded, although the contrary
is the general belief, and men would have us
rather imagine that crime, and robbery, and
murder, and revenge are the more frequent
events of life ; that ever since Adam was
banished fi'om Eden, Pains have been slaying
their brother Abel all the world over, and
guilt has been preying upon innocence.

It is pleasant to linger over other pictures
that those old houses suggest ; to think of the
generations of happy little children who have

played within their dark walls, and gathered
the cowslips and bluebells in the meadows
outside, unconscious of any doom, even the
universal one of death, which hung over their
heads ; to imagine how many happy lovers
loitered together under the old trees before any
cloud of jealousy or faithlessness or revenge
rose to blight their happiness or mar their love.
After all, every scene, however sombre, had
its counterpart, every night its day ; and even
taking for granted that the dark old tales are
true, we may be sure that sunshine had come
before the storm, if it did not follow it as well.
!Nothing was so gloomy, so unrelieved, as they
would have us believe.

Times are changed now, it may be for the
better. There are fewer tragedies ; outwardly?
at least, the wheels of life roll more smoothly
on their way, less disturbed by jolts or violent
shakes ; light and shadow is become less
sharply defined, the night and day oftener

mix into twilight. We leave less picturesque
scenes for the brush and pencil of posterity
; our lives will probably appear to those
who are to follow us somewhat dull and
prosaic and undramatic, in comparison with
those that went before. Perhaps the reason
for the change is to be found in the fact that
we have learnt in our older age to take
tidings more quietly ; that, now that we are
full-grown, and whether for evil or for
good have left our childhood behind us,
we have found out that, as we tell the
children, there is after all nothing to cry for :
or is it, perhaps, that we have discovered that
there is so much that it comes to the same
thing, and that we have at any rate learnt to
be silent about it ? Men, at all events  at
least among what are called the educated
classes  no longer stab or shoot their false
friends or their unfaithful wives. Perhaps
they have an indistinct and for the most part

formulated conviction, whether right or
wrong, that the criminal who is within reach
of their vengeance is only the instrument,
if not the victim, of another power  of
that terrible and inexplicable law of sin and
death by which we, like the lower creation
are doomed to prey upon one another, and
which, being eternal and immutable, lies
beyond the scope of human vengeance ; perhaps
they think nothing about it, except that
it is well to make as little scandal as may be,
and not to proclaim their grievances to an
over-curious Avorld, which is always only too
ready to scoff at the unfortunate, and has a
tenacious belief besides that men get what
they deserve. But whatever may be the cause,
it is certain that life, in the higher state
of civilization to which it has nowadays
attained, presents far fewer dramatic effects
than of old, and that when the thin brick
walls of our modern houses fall, though no

fewer hearts may have broken within them,
perhaps no fewer crimes been committed 
they will not carry to the ground with them
the histories and fables which still linger
round the homes of our forefathers. Even
our ghosts are less substantial, and for the
most part take form and shape only to our inward
eye, though it may be that they are, for
that reason, by no means less terrible or less
efficient agents and instruments of punishment.


Within the old houses which yet remain tous
as legacies of the past, we move, feeling
ourselves to be, like our clothes when compared
with the crimson and gold, the velvet
and brocade, of their former possessors, a little
commonplace and prosaic and sad-coloured ;
and yet we are now and then conscious that
under its changed garb human nature is everywhere
and at all times the same ; that our joys
and sorrows, our hatreds and our loves,

and our revenges too, are no less real because
they are less dramatically expressed ; and that
if our ancestors were to step down from their
picture-frames and mingle amongst us once
more, though their language might be somewhat
different, and their methods of making
their opinion felt possibly more open and
forcible than our own, yet that they would
still at bottom suffer and rejoice, love and
hate, much as their descendants do now.
After all, it is only the fashion of the clothing,
both of body and soul, that varies ; beneath it
human nature, good and bad, is everywhere
and at all times much the same.

Thoughts like the foregoing used sometimes
to pass through Eve Carrington's mind as
she sat alone, dreaming or speculating in the
way that a solitary life had rendered habitual
to her. It was to her that the old house on
the hill now belonged, with all its traditions ;

to her, a girl of fi veranda twenty, the last representative
of the race of Warrington who
had possessed it so long, preserved it so faithfully,
and loved it so well.

Eve loved it too. She would have exchanged
her home for no other in the world.
She loved its grey time stained walls ; its
curious winding passages and dark rooms, its
unexpected corners and angles ; she even
loved the stories that clung about it, though
they had given her childhood many terrors,
making her shudder in her bed when the wind
whistled round the house and moaned in the
wide chimneys, or rustled in the leaves of the
thick ivy outside. She had lived at Xortons
more than half her life -, ever since, that is, she
had come an orphan, at twelve years old, to
make her home there with the childless uncle
and aunt who had thenceforward supplied to
her the place of the parents she had lost, had
brought her up as their child, made her their

heiress, and had now passed away, leaving
her in possession of the old home.

Eve Carrington's had been a tranquil,
serene, and, save for one great exception, an
uneventful life. She had passed through
phases, lived down enthusiasms, discarded
beliefs. She had, like others, possessed idols
which had proved clay, and oracles which
had become dumb, or, worse still, which she
had ceased to consult. She had had ideals
Which had lost their power to move her, and
illusions which had been dispelled, and, above
all, she had passed through one momentous
experience  an experience which had given
the colour to years of her life, and which had
threatened at one time to overshadow it all.

At nineteen she had been engaged to be
married to Harry Courtney, a sailor, and the
younger son of her uncle's oldest friend and
neighbour. Both were young, Harry himself
only two-and-twenty, and the engagement,

while fully approved and allowed on both
sides, was not to be carried out for a year.
Before that year of probation was over,
young Courtney was dead, struck down by
fever on the African coast.

The girl recovered from the blow, but
though youth reasserted itself, it was years
before the shadow of death had been lifted
from her life, and the old wound had ceased
to ache. It was, indeed, only lately that she
had fully realized that such a change had
taken place, and it was not without a curious
sense of pain that she had learnt lier cure ;
that she had become conscious that time had
accomplished its work of healing ; that the
thought of Harry Courtney had lost its power
to move her as of old ; and that the great
sorrow which had given the keynote to her
existence for so long, had taken its place
among the historical facts which fail to thrill
us at their touch.

The realization brought with it a strange
sense of loss ; a sorrow, no less than a joy,
becomes a friendly and familiar presence,
which, when withdrawn, leaves us stranded
and solitary ; even our griefs are a possession
with which we cannot afford lightly to part ;
and a healed wound, of which the scar alone
remains, a sign and a token, as it were, of the
transitory and evanescent nature of all things
human, is in some senses sadder than an open
one. And yet it was characteristic of Eve
Carrington, that though conscious of that half
regret, that  so to speak  jealousy for the
dead, she had not blinded herself to the fact,
nor striven, as some might have done, to
galvanize a dead sorrow to life.

She was not without friends in the neighbourhood
which had seen her grow up, and
when the death of her aunt had left her solitary,
she had received many and kindly offers
of sympathy and help. Lady Courtney,

indeed, mother of the present baronet, and of
the man whom, had fate been kinder, Eve
should have married, had beeii urgent in her
wish that she should make her home, for the
present at least, with her ; cherishing, it might
be, a hope that the girl whom, since the
tragedy that had overshadowed both homes,
she had always regarded in the light of a
daughter, might yet in time become one.
The offer, however, had been gratefully declined,
and Eve had remained on at Norton
with the sole companionship of old Miss
Duke, a gentle old lady who, once her
governess, had returned, on Mrs. Carrington's
death, to live with her former pupil.

Eve had never regretted her decision. It is
true that, in spite of its beauty, many people
might have found Norton lonely, for there
were no near neighbours ; but Eve was one of
those to whom solitude becomes by habit
rather a friend than an enemy, and though

the year that had elapsed since her aunt's
death had been for the most part passed by
her without other companionship than that of
Miss Duke, she had never been inclined to
reverse her determination to continue to live
in her old home.

Now, however, for a few months at least, a
change was to take place in the tenor of her
life, and her solitude was for a time to be
interrupted.

CHAPTER 11.

T was two days since Mrs. Ross, her
maid, her French tonnes and her
little boy, had arrived at Norton
  Portions, most incongruous abode for an}
of the four, whose very walls, grey and venerable
as they were, seemed to protest against
the intrusion, but where, notwithstanding,
Mrs. Ross meant to remain for the rest of
the summer.

She said it was her duty to do so, and so
perhaps it was. Nevertheless, those who
knew Patricia Ross well were apt to feel somewhat
sceptical when she assigned such a
reason for her actions, and, if they felt

VOL. I. 2

interest enough in the matter, to look about for
another and a more probable cause for them.

In the present case, however, her account
of the reasons which had determined her conduct
was sufficiently plausible, and she had
given it at some length and detail to those of
her friends who cared to listen.

My half-sister is so lonely,' she said.
Since her aunt died last year she has lived
alone, literally alone, except for a companion
of about a hundred years old ; and even Miss
Duke has had to leave her for the present to
go and nurse some sick relation. And now
that I need no longer be quite such a depressing
influence '  Mrs. Eoss had been a widow
two years, and had by this time discarded her
weeds  ' I think I really ought to go and
look after the poor child.'

She had accordingly written to Eve,
suggesting that she should bring the boy and
spend the remaining months of summer  it

was already June  and the early autumn
with her ; until, that is, it should be time to
take her usual way to the Elvira for the
winter.

Miss Carrington had assented to her sister's
proposal, if without enthusiasm, yet with
sufficient cordiality. Patricia Ross was her
only near relation, and though  having married
when Eve was still a child, shortly after the
latter had come to live at Norton s  there was
no real intimacy between them, the prospect
of a companion, for a time at least, somewhat
nearer her own age than Miss Duke, was not
unwelcome.

Mrs. Ross, as she drove the five hilly miles
from the station, had felt her heart sink a
little. She was not one of those to whom
feature presents many attractions, and the
prospect of three months to be spent in the
retirement of Norton caused her a slight
sense of dismay, fully shared by her son.

22

It's a very quiet place, mamma,' said
Master Kit, giving expression to the forebodings
his mother was feeling.  I hope we
shan't be dull; but I think we should have
liked St. Merits better.'

Kit was experienced, and a traveller, though
he was only seven years old, and Mrs. Eo.-s
sighed as she attempted to answer reassuringly.


That was, however, two days ago, and she
had already begun to adapt herself to circumstances,
with the assistance, it is true, of a
wholly unlooked-for source of excitement,
which, though not altogether of an agreeable
nature, was, as Mrs. Ross would have frankly
allowed, considerably better than none.

It was of this that she was speaking to Miss
Carrington as the two were together in the
cool shaded drawing-room the second afternoon
after her arrival. It was a large low
room, with one window opening into a conservatory,

whilst the other looked across a
lawn and through an avenue of elms to the
distant hilly horizon. The furniture, although
there was nothing ostentatiously old about it,
was solid and substantial and accorded well
with the thick walls and dark panelling of the
room.

I have a confession to make to you, Eve
Mrs. Ross said, throwing down the book she
had been pretending to read. She had a clear
sweet voice, with a slightly foreign pronunciation,
due to her long residence abroad, and a
manner which, when she pleased, was very
attractive. She was pretty, too, in a bright
piquante way, with fair hair elaborately
arranged, hazel eyes, and small delicate features.


Eve turned as she spoke. She had been
standing at the window looking absently out,
a slight figure a little above the average
height, with dark hair cut in a straight line

across her forehead, and lying heavy and
uncurled over level brows and grave, dark-blue,
black-lashed eyes.

She had been thinking, just before her
sisters voice interrupted her, that it was the
anniversary of the day, five years ago, when
the tidings of Harry Courtney's death had
been brought to her ; remembering also, again
with that vague regret stirring within her,
that till that moment she had forgotten it.
She had been standing at that very window
when his brother had come across the ofrass
with the terrible news written on his face.
For years the scene in all its details had remained
photographed on her memory, accompanied
by her own sudden horror of fear  the
avenue of elm-trees rustling and whispering in
the hot summer breeze just as they were
doing now, the blazing flower-beds, the
flickering lights  everything was exactly as it
had been that day : it seemed almost as if she

must once more see Sir Cyril advancing
across the lawn, bringing the message which
had blasted her hopes. Her heart contracted
with pain, which was yet, as she involuntarily
recognised, the pain of a remembered and nota
living sorrow.
Her sister's voice disturbed her reflections.

I have a confession to make,' she repeated.
 Come and listen to it Eve. I had not, it is
true, contemplated it, but circumstances have
made it necessary.'

Eve had turned, rousing herself from her
own private meditations ; and dismissing, for
the present, her recollections, she came to
sit down near her sister, looking at her inquiringly.


What is it ?' she asked, still somewhat
absent.

'What is it? It is the ghost of a folly
which now seems to belong to the dark ages,
though, counting by months and weeks, it is

not, after all, so very long since it took place
I always parenthetically, 'talk of follies
taking place ; it makes them more impersonal
and which has suddenly started to life again.
Did you ever hear of Gilbert Yerschoyle T

The son of the man who died last month,
who lived some miles the other side of the
Courtneyss? Yes, I remember the name.
Did he not do something discreditable, which
prevented his father having him at home ?'

Yes  that is the man,' replied Mrs. Ross
gloomily. '1 wish I had happened to hear
his history sooner.'

Then you know him ?' asked Eve.
Mrs. Ross shrugged her shoulders.
I know him  yes,' she answered.
Do you know him well ?' asked Eve, her
curiosity, though it was a cpiality which was
not strong in her, roused by her sister's
manner.

'I knew him very well,' answered the latter,

with some emphasis. ' Come, Eve, I may as
well tell you the truth  it is no use beating
about the bush. Six months ago I promised
to marry Mr. Gilbert Verschoyle.'

There was a pause. Miss Carrington's
countenance had taken an expression of slight
dismay. She was used to form independent
judgments, and was less than most women
influenced by the opinions of the world and
the dictates and laws of conventional society ;
but still Mr. Yerschoyle's reputation in the
county, as she now began to remember more
clearly, was not such as to point him out asa
desirable husband or brother-in-law.

You are enoao;ed to him ?' she said.

No, no  not now. I was engaged to him
Listen, Eve ; I Avill tell you the whole story.
Of course I was to blame  at least I suppose
I ought to have been more careful, but what
would you have ? It is all the fault of the
theories upon which we are brought up, and

\Yliicli we are so accustomed to take for granted
that we accept them as a matter of course. I
really believe '  with asperity  ' the worldly
maxims at which it is the fashion to throw so
much dirt  from Locksley Hall downwards 
have not done One-tenth of the damage that
the unworldly ones have, against which nobody
dares say a word.'

Mrs. Eoss had a sort of eloquence, or at least
possessed a command of language of her own,
and Eve was accustomed to listen to her
without much interruption, being herself
naturally silent ; but as her sister paused for
]breath she put in a word, recalling her to the
subject in hand.

Apropos of what ?' she said quietly.

AVell, you are told you have a heart
everyone has, therefore you have. That is the
process of reasoning  I forget what it is called.
And you take the fact for granted, and act
accordingly, did.'

That is to say '

That is to say, I engaged myself to Gilbert
Yerschoyle. I knew all along that it was nota
good marriage, but he was fond of me, and
I really thought I liked him ; and  and it had
been so dull for the last year or more,' pursued
Mrs. Ross frankly. ' Of course I was very
sorry when poor Robert died ; but after all I
was so young, scarcely twenty-six, when it
happened, and one can't go on mourning all one's
life long.' Eve turned away ; her sister's words
sounded like a crude and heartless caricature
of what time had taught lier. ' I had seen no one
and done nothing: for months, and then one
da'  it happened abroad, you know  Kit's
pony ran away with him, and he really might
have been killed if Mr. Terschoyle hadn't been
there. I couldn't do less than be civil after
that, and somehow I saw a good deal of him.
I had never heard a hint of his previous career,
aud I could see he was a gentleman.'

Mrs, Eoss paused, out of breath ; but Eve
made no comment, and after a minute her sister
went on :

Well, we were engaged. It was not much
more than a year after Robert's death, and I
stipulated that it should be kept secret for six
months  nobody was to hear of it. I knew
\'ery few people at Nice, where it all took pLace,
and he didn't seem to know anybody either.
And then one day  I had casually mentioned
him in a letter to England just after the child's
accident, before there was anything between
us  I got a letter of kindly warning. I was
to take care not to have much to do with him ;
he had been mixed up in some shameful money
transactions at Oxford  I don't know quite
what  and was a disgraced man.'

*I remember now,' said Eve. ' He was
said to have forged his father's name to a
cheque. Mr. Yerschoyle paid the money, but I
believe he never had him at home afterwards.*

Exactly  nobody received him  so my
informant said : lie was. as I told you, a disgraced
man. It was a pleasant account to get,
wasn't it, of the man one had promised to
marry?'

It was,' said Eve. ' What did you do ?
tell him the story and ask him if it was
true ?'

 My dear Eve, what do you take me for ?
To insult a man to his face  the man you
are engaged to  by asking him if it was
true he Alas a felon who had happened to
escape conviction! I should have died
of it !'

Ah, I see said the girl comprehending.
You knew it couldn't be true  you didn't
believe it ?'

Yes, I did ; at least '  candidly  ' I don't
think I ever thought much about it. It was
clear the world believed him to be guilty, and
that was the main point.' Patricia Eoss was

always too modest to set her opinion against
that of the world; she' deferred to its judgments,
its canonizations, its excommunications,
as a Catholic does to those of the
Church. ' What is the good of innocence if it
can't prove itself?'

Poor Innocence !' said Eve softly.

Mrs. Ross laughed.

You needn't pity her,' she said. ' Don't
you know she has what we are all supposed
to consider most worth having  besides
sometimes getting what we do not dare aspire
to  martyrdom.'

You are o-rowinsr discursive,' observed
Eve. ' What course did you take ?'

Mrs. Ross reflected,

 ' One I have never ceased to regret. I
broke off my engagement.'

And now you are sorry for it ?' asked Eve
quickly.

Xot sorry I broke it off  that was inevitable.

And besides  I told you before I had
been misled by the theories in dnch one is
brought up  I had imagined myself to have
lost my heart to him, whereas I now know I
hadn't any heart to lose. I found it out afterwards,
but only after a most unpleasant series
of mistakes, into which, if I had been left
alone, I should never have fallen. I liked
him well enough  he was good-looking and
clever, to a certain extent  but I never really
cared for him. He had a vile temper, too,
and I had begun to find it out. Xo, what I
am sorry for is that I didn't give the right
reason.'

"What reason did you give ?'

I put it upon money. I wish I had
spoken the truth. I can't think why I don't.
I have so often found it would have answered
better in the end, and made up my mind to
try it for the future. But I can't  c'est plus
fort que moi /' throwing out her hands with a

deprecating gesture. ' On the very next occasion
I lie as gaily as ever.'

You mean you gave money as your reason
for breaking off the ens-movement ?' asked Eve,
paying no attention to Mrs. Ross's digression.

Yes ; I told him he was too poor. Of
course he teas poor then  he had no profession,
and only the few hundreds a year his
father allowed him, so it was a plausible excuse
ready to hand ; but I wish I had told
him the truth.'

And you didn't care for him ?' said Eve
absently.

My dear Eve, I said just now I didn't. I
liked him quite well enough to have married
him, if things had been straight. As to the
rest, I have told you my theory  I have an
intellectual beef in strong emotions, but my
faith belongs to the brain, not to the heart.'

And what are the " circumstances " which
you said just now made it necessary for you

to tell me about it?' asked Eve, after a
pause.

I was coming to that. The fact is, I had
a letter from him  from Gilbert  this morning,
telling me that by his father's death he has
inherited the property ; and, the bar of poverty
being thus removed, he suggests that our
en oa element should be renewed.'

Then the estate was entailed ?

iso, that is the extraordinary thing ; it
was not. It really seems as if Providence
had interfered to protect Mr. Gilbert Ver-school,
unlikely as it would seem that it
should take an interest in his affairs. His
father apparently died quite suddenly, without
having altered the will he made years
ago, before there was any quarrel, so that
everything comes to Gilbert as it would
have done naturally under other circumstances.
He seems astonished at it himself 
you see he never expected to inherit. I must

VOL. I. 3

ALLEGIANCE.

say,' added Patricia approvingly, 'that Lis
exposition of the condition of affairs is most
business-like.'

And what do you mean to answer ?' asked
Eve.

That is just my difficulty  how to \xt
what I have to say. As to my meaning, I am
clear enough ; but I confess that the question
how to express it puzzles me. I will not
marry him. I have enough money of my
own ; and the other objection  the real one 
remains just what it was. I love the world
and society far too well to cut myself off from
them by marrying a man of whom they have
decided to decline the acquaintance.'

I see,' said Eve. ' Yes  then what shall
you say ?'

What do you advise? it is just upon that
point that I wanted to consult you.'

Why not  the truth ?' asked Eve slowly.
Mrs. Ross made an impatient movement.

I have told you that is out of the question
she said. * I will not insult him.'

You will not insult him repeated Eve.
 Then I am afraid I cannot help you.*

She was thinking that in thought and in
act Mrs. Ross did not object to insulting
the man she was to have married  it was only
in word that she found it impossible. There
was a pause, and then Patricia spoke again.

'I suppose I must write an ambiguous
letter  tell him I have come to the conclusion
that we are not suited to make one another
happy, and so forth. It is quite true.
Luckily he writes from London, so that there
is no chance of meeting him in this neighbourhood
; and he does not know where I am  his
letter has followed me from abroad. Well, I
may as well get it done. Come, Eve, tell
me you think I am right.'

Eve looked her sister steadily over. She
was fond of her, she even in a certain wa'

32

admired her ; but yet at this moment she felt
something not unlike contempt for the nature
that lay revealed, though such contempt was
not a sentiment which was accustomed to find
a place in her mind.

Yes, I think you are right,' she answered
after that momentary survey. 'At any rate,
as you have been wise enough to range yourself
on the side of the majority you are safe,
whatever happens. It is only when we join
the minority that a mistake is fatal.'

She rose and passed out through the open
window. Patricia looked after her with a laugh
in which there was no touch of offence, though,
shrewd as she was, she had not failed to read
her sister's meaning with sufficient accuracy.

She is very young still, ' she said to herself
indulgently. ' I kncAV more of the world
at fifteen than she does at five-and-twenty. I
know, though she does not say so, that she
would have liked me better if I had held to

Gilbert in spite of his damaged reputation and
doubtful character  if, in fact, I had been
content to think " all for love and the world
well lost.' But she will find out in time 
though she takes so long about it  that the
beaten paths are best. I have tried them both.'

It was true ; but Mrs. Ross forgot to reflect
that the tracks which in her somewhat
chequered career she had more than once been
tempted to follow had all tended in one
direction, whilst those of which Eve Carrington
dreamed led in quite another.

Perhaps, however, there was truth in what
she said. The beaten paths at any rate are
the smoothest, and those who tread them,
diverging neither to the right nor to the left,
not only escape the thorns and briars and
pitfalls that lie alike on either side, but also
avoid the precipices over which those who
climb higher are apt to fall.

NE afternoon, some ten days after
that upon which Mrs. Eoss had
made her confession  not, perhaps,
an altogether complete one  the subject of
it was arriving at the home he had quitted
upwards of eleven years ago, and had never
since revisited.

He had not announced his coming beforehand,
and there were no preparations to greet
the arrival of the heir. Xo conveyance was to
be had at the small country station where he
got out, nor was there anyone to meet and
welcome, or even recognise him. The stationmaster
was a stranger, and only an old porter

looked curiously after the new-comer as he
walked quickly away, leaving his portmanteau
to be called for.

That'll be young Yerschoyle, Bill he said,
addressing a comrade, after having; first taken
the precaution of verifying his conjectures by
a survey of the initials upon the traveller's
luggage. ' I mind him well enough, though
he's changed since he come here last. He
were quite a young chap then ; but there's no
doubt that'll be him.'

Then it'll be a rare bad one,' returned Bill
severely. 'When a man's own father won't
have nothing to do with him, we knows what
to think.'

And his companion endorsed the opinion
with a shake of the head.

The subject of their remarks was meanwhile
walking away at a swinging pace. He was a
man of between thirty and thirty-five, looking
older than his age ; with close-cut black hair

waving slightly ; a tall well-built figure ; a
brown thin face, and dark-grey eyes under
marked black eyebrows. It was a handsome
face, though somewhat worn and lined ; and
yet not a pleasant one, and it bore out Mrs.
Koss's assertion that his temper was bad. The
world had, in fact, gone ill with him, and the
consciousness of it was apparent in every line
of his well cut mouth, and in the expression
of the eyes which were just now taking note
of the familiar landmarks with an interest
in which no touch of any softening sentiment
mixed, though he was visiting the home of
his boyhood  the only home, in fact, that he
had ever known.

Eleven years !  he had counted them up  it
was eleven years since he had last traversed that
road. Two months later the event had taken
place which had left him disgraced for life in
the eyes of the world, and had shut the doors
of his father's house upon him, casting him

forth, friendless and alone, to face his disgrace
as he might, and make what he could of his
life. He had faced it, with a proud and
doo'o-ed endurance which, if it was not
courage, both counterfeited it and did its best
to supply its place ; but the struggle, none the
less because he had to a certain extent conquered
in it, had left him with every trait of his
character hardened and embittered, and with
its history written in each line of his face ;
with the character and the face of a man who
for eleven years  perhaps the most important
years of his life  had been standing on the
defensive, with his hand at all times ready to
return a blow, till the attitude had become
habitual ; who had been ever ready to detect
an insult, and prompt to avenge a slight, and
upon whom few counteracting influences had
chanced to fall.

His childhood had been unloved, and his
boyhood neglected. The first Mrs. Verschoyle

bad died when her only child was in blouses ;
his father, a cold, severe, upright man, with a
keen and uncompromising sense of honour
and an inordinate family pride, had never
cared for the boy ; and his stepmother had
treated him with open dislike. Xo tender
memories lingered round the paths which,
after so long, he was treading ; yet recollections
of one sort or another crowded upon
him as he walked along the familiar road  so
curiously more familiar than all those with
which he had been acquainted since.

It was at that white gate that his pony had
shied and thrown him. He remembered, with
the strange vividness belonging* to childish
impressions, his father's look as he stood
before him  a muddy little figure, bruised,
shaken, and even tearful-and the cold contempt
with which his reluctance to mount
again had been visited ; he recalled his own
mingled fear and resentment when he had

been forced to do so. The pony was unsafe 
he knew it, the groom knew it, everybody
knew it  but his father had called him a
coward. He remembered his father's second
marriage when he was a lad of sixteen, and the
undisguised dislike his stepmother had from
the first entertained for him ; as fully and
with equal openness reciprocated by himself.
She, poor thing, was dead now, and her only
child, Dorothy, whom he had not seen since
she was four years old, was, as he knew, left,
by a strange oversight, to his own guardianship.
She was at home now, as he thought,
with a sense of distaste.

Xo, he had no reason to love the place ; and
yet he had come to it meaning to stay, to live
on and make his home there. He anticipated no
welcome in the neighbourhood. He was fully
aware that if there was one place more than
another where his reputation and his rushed
character would tell against him, it was among

his father's friends ; and yet he had decided,
with the same dogged determination with
which he had met all the other consequences
of his disgrace, there to brave the matter out.
He was not even conscious of any particular
shrinking from what to many men Avould
have Been an unbearable ordeal. To a great
extent he was hardened and steeled against
the opinion of the world. It was impossible
that the years which had gone by should not
have left him thus ; for shame, like sorrow,
loses its edge, and the one is no more, what
it is so often called, lifelong, than the other,
although the effects of both remain, for good
or for evil, stamped upon the character.
Habit  stronger than either courage or principle
 had rendered him in great measure
callous to disapproval or blame, and it was
only when he was touched at some unaccustomed
point that the blow still had power
to make him wince, and force him to confess



with self-contempt that, habituated though he
had been to insult and slight, he was not yet
invulnerable. Over such an intimation he
was even now brooding, with his face dark
and his mouth hard, as he approached his
destination. It was, this time, Patricia's letter
which had found its way through the joints of
his harness, and of which the recollection,
though it was now ten days since he had
received it, still rankled.

Cautiously worded and considerately expressed
as it had been  Patricia was an adept
at letter-writing  he had read between the
lines, and had detected, quick as he had
become at such discoveries, the real cause of
her refusal to renew their engagement ; and in
her present rejection he had read no less the
reason of her former one. It did not, it is
true, come to him with any great surprise.
He had suspected something of the kind
before, and perhaps it had been, in part at

least, a morbid curiosity and desire to prove
his suspicion correct which had prompted his
present proposaL At all events, whether
such had been the case or not, her answer had
confirmed him in his conviction. He knew
her well enough to be sure that she was not a
woman likely to refuse what he had now to
offer, had she no other reason for doing so
than those she alleged. He judged her justly,
impartially, and with sufficient accuracy.
He had never, indeed, with regard to Patricia,
been blinded by passion ; although, liking
her, he had allowed himself to be carried
away by a transient, and even at the time half
contemptuous, admiration for her shallow
cleverness and bright pleasant ways. For
the rest, she had crossed his path when life
had little that was pleasant belonging to it ;
and the days when he had believed  with
that curious half belief which voluntarily and
with open eyes lends itself to deception  in

her affection, had been among the least sombre
ones of his latter years, although the happiness
which belonged to them had not been of
an ideal or elevating character.

It was, perhaps, characteristic of the terms
upon which they stood, and of his estimation
of the nature and force of her affection, that he
had kept silence to her concerning the blot
which stained the name he had offered her, aid
which she had accepted. It had not so muc!i
as occurred to him to do otherwise. She would
learn the truth soon enough : he had asked no
more confidence from her than he was prepared
to give. Had there been any episode in
her life upon which she might think it Avell
to drop a veil, he knew her well enough to
feel sure that she would do so ; and for the
rest, if he could steal a march upon the world
and upon society  the world and the society
to which she belonged, and from which he
was, though she did not know it, an outcast

all was fair in the war which they had waged
upon him. So he told himself upon the rare
occasions on which conscience had suggested
to him a scruple.

When the end had come he had not been
however, heart-broken  Patricia was not the
kind of woman for whom men break their
hearts  and he had acquiesced with sufficient
facility in the course she had taken, and in
the reasons she had assigned for it, recognising;
their value and not even resenting her
change of purpose. He had, to a certain
extent and to a modified degree, been sensible
of disappointment, but he had made no complaint.
It was not his custom to complain of
the world and its ways. If he had a quarrel
with it, he kept it to himself. His cynicism,
if it existed, was always a silent one  perhaps
it was too real to be garrulous, for genuine
cynicism is rarely overt ; if the world has
been really unkind, and thus has given us a

thoroughly bad oj)mion of it, we are apt to
keep it to ourselves, having a lurking suspicion
that it may have reason on its side, and
being therefore unwilling to draw attention to
the quarrel.  Of late, however, as has been
said, a suspicion had forced itself upon him-that
the reason she had alleged for the"
annulling of their engagement had not been
the real one, and since he had received her
last letter his suspicion had been confirmed
is true that she had not now, any more than
on the former occasion, hinted at the truth ; her
whole letter was indeed an elaborate attempt
to conceal it, and it was this that had chiefly
roused his anger. Had she been candid he
Avoid have acquiesced, not perhaps without
bitterness, but without remonstrance or reproach,
in her decision. But as it was, he swore
to himself that he would force the truth from
her ; that  with a correct perception that this
was the only punishment he had it in his
VOL. I. 4

power to inflict  she should be forced to tell
the man she had professed to love well
enough to marry him that she had thrown
him over, not because of the poverty she had
once assigned as her excuse, nor because of
the incompatibility of temper and difference
of disposition which she now gave as her
determining reasons, but because the world
had turned its back upon him and made him
an outcast. For once he would force the
truth from her.

His meditations, emphasizing the disagreeable
expression on his face, had reached this
point as he walked up to his own door and,
after a moment's hesitation, rang the bell.

Is Miss Yerschoyle at home ? Will you
tell her I am here? I am Mr. Yerschoyle,'
he said to the man who appeared ; conscious
of a dim sense of amusement at having thus
to introduce himself and at the servant's face
of surprise, which, however, with the instinct

of a well-bred footman, he instantly succeeded
in suppressing.

Certainly, sir. Miss Dorothy is in the
schoolroom. I will inform her that you are
here.'

Gilbert passed the man and went into the
library. It had the desolate, uncomfortable
look of an unused room, though it was
well and luxuriously furnished. Yerschoyle
wondered, as he stood before the empty fireplace
looking round him, whether he should
ever feel at home there, anything but an unwelcome
and intrusive interloper. It almost
seemed to him as if his father's ghost must
rise, to turn him out of the inheritance into
which by such a strange oversight or accident
it could be nothing else  he had been
allowed to enter.

There was his father's leathern chair, the
table where he used to write, his books. The
room was chiefly associated in his mind with

42

LIB RAH Y



parental reprimands and rebukes ; till now, he
never recollected entering it voluntarily or
of his own accord. With strange accuracy
he recalled the last occasion upon which he
had stood there  eleven years ago  and his
parting with his father. It had made little
enough impression upon him at the time ; the
interview had been chiefly interesting, and
that in a somewhat unpleasant manner, from
a financial point of view, and he had been
sensible of some relief when it was over, and
he had been able to make good his escape.

Yet now he remembered it clearly enough.
It had been the last time he had seen Mr.
Verschoyle till, hastily summoned to the
hotel in London where he had been overtaken
by his sudden and fatal attack of paralysis, he
had arrived too late to find him alive. He
wondered, glancing at the ink and pens still
on the table, whether it had been there that
the letter had been written which, two months

later, had contained his sentence of banishment
and outlawry.

Standing there in his father's house, he
accused him in silence of the ruin of his life.
What had he ever given him that was worth
having ? Other men had tender recollections
clinging round their homes, but what had
he ?  only the memory of neglect and dislike,
scarcely veiled or concealed ; and, lastly, the
brand of an implacable resentment, which had
shut him out for ever from forgiveness, and
had cast him upon the world at twenty-two
without a friend.

He wondered as he stood waiting for his
sister, though he was not given to indulge in
such speculations, whether anyone more solitary
than himself existed. He had not a
single close friend. He had, once for all, Ashen
he quitted Oxford, broken with those who
belonged to the past  necessity and pride alike
demanded it  and he had not accepted those

who would have been since ready enough ta
admit him into their circle, no question asked.
He stood absolutely and entirely alone. He
was interrupted in his reflections.

The door had opened, and a little girl
was advancing towards him in a leisurely
manner. She was small and childish in appearance,
with pale flaxen hair neatly
smoothed away behind her ears, and hanging
in a thick plait behind ; light-blue eyes and
straight features ; and was dressed in deep
mourning, with a brown-holland apron over
her black frock. What might be wanting
however, in dignity in her appearance was
amply made up for by her manner, which, for
its calm self-possession, would have done
credit, under the circumstances, to a woman
of twice her age. No faintest shadow invoice
or manner indicated that she was
greeting her only brother after an absence
of eleven years ; no trace of shyness or embarrassment

sent the colour to her pale little
face.

I am sorry to have kept you waiting
she observed, advancing and offering her
hand, which Gilbert took with a sense of
relief that he was evidently not expected to
give her a more brotherly greeting. Sentiment,
as has been observed, had little to do
with his home associations, and certainly less
than all with his stepmother's child. ' If you
had let me know when to expect you, the
carriage should have met you.' Dorothy's
tone was slightly disapproving.

It did not matter at all, thanks,' he returned.
'I did not feel sure I should find sou
at home. Have you been here ever since 
since last month ?'

Since papa died, you mean ? that was six
weeks ago,' corrected Miss Yerschoyle, mentioning
the event with none of her brother's
involuntary hesitation, and quite without the

emotion the fear of which had given rise to it.
 No ; I went to Mace Court  Lady Courtney's
 for a week. But I have been at home a
fortnight now. Miss Hare did not wish my
lessons to have any further interruption.'

I see said Gilbert, rather absently. ' You
were not at the funeral, Dorothy

Mr. Yerschoyle had been buried, in accordance
with his own wish, at a small property he
possessed at some distance, where his father
and grandfather rested.

Xo,' returned the child. ' Miss Hare
thought it was better not.'
Gilbert changed the subject.
'Miss Hare? Is that the lady who conducts
your education ?' he inquired. ' How
old are you, Dorothy ? fourteen, is it not ? I
remember you were a little thing in white
frocks when I saw you last '  a plain, spoilt
little child, he added mentally.

'I shall be fifteen next month,' answered

Dorothy sedately, ignoring his allusion to
their last meeting, which indeed appeared to
her most injudicious under the circumstances.
Dorothy was well acquainted with the family
scandal. She was one of the children  not so
rare as might be wished, and perhaps becoming
daily less so  who appear to arrive at a knowledge
of the world as if by instinct; and in this
special case no care had been taken to keeper
in ignorance of her brother's disgrace. To
her, as to all his father's friends, to all the
neighbours, to the parson who had regretted
the advent of such a parishioner, to the very
footman who had opened his own door to him,
he stood in the position of a disgraced man ;
and Dorothy Yerschoyle, conventional and
worldly to the core of her small heart, was
the last person to forget or forgive it. It had,
it is true, been clearly necessary under the
circumstances that she should outwardly, at
least, condone her brother's offence ; but .she

disapproved of any reference to the subject, or
to what it had entailed, as both wanting in
good taste and as denoting an insufficient
sense on his part of its enormity. Gilbert was
acutely conscious  half amused, half angry 
of the meaning of the child's manner.

Yes,' he went on carelessly. ' Eleven
years is a long time, isn't it, Dorothy ? Can
you remember what happened eleven years
ago ?'

Not ver\- well. I '

Well, never mind ; some things are better
forgotten, aren't they ? All things considered,
perhaps, a good memory is not an altogether
unmixed good ;' he was touching, irritated
by the consciousness of the child's manner,
on the subject he knew she wished to ignore.
Perhaps you will learn that in time, like
other things  besides those Miss Hare teaches
you.'

When, half an hour later, she left him to

return to her lessons, he shrugged his
shoulders with a half-laugh, which yet was
not without its bitterness. Little Dorothy
had once more held up to him the mirror
of the world.

And tomorrow,' he said to himself, * tomorrow
Mrs. Ross shall, for once, speak the
truth.'

He was again interrupted. The door had
opened, and an old man, his father's valet,
who had been in his service ever since Gilbert
could remember, entered. Yerschoyle held
out his hand to him with careless kindness.


Ah, how are you, Jenkinson ?' he said.

He had last seen the man at the funeral
He had been with Mr. Verschoyle when he had
been seized in London with the fatal illness,
and it had indeed been he who, on his own
responsibility, and With fear and trembling,
had despatched the telegram which summoned

Gilbert to his deathbed. He now came forward
with timid eagerness. He was a frail
old man, with thin grey hair and a worn
nervous face.

 I am glad to see you home, sir,' he said,
with a voice that shook a little as he took his
master's hand. ' The house has never been
the same since you left it.'

Gilbert was both taken by surprise and
touched. He, for his part, in the year's that
lead elapsed since he was banished from home,
had almost forgotten Jenkinson, and the
timid, unobtrusive affection he had always
shown him as a boy. But though he Alas not
unmoved by this, the first word of welcome
he had received, he had all a man's dislike of
anything approaching to a scene, or to any
display of emotion.

I am sure it is very good of you to
say so,' he said. ' I am glad to find you still
here.'

He shook the old man's hand kindly before
he turned away. He would have been still
more touched and surprised if he had known
that Jenkinson's eyes were full of tears as he
left the room.

*At least he has got his own,' he said to
himself, as he went along in his hesitating,
uncertain way towards the back regions. ' In
spite of all them lawyers.'

. EARLY a foi-night had elapsed
1; since Patricia Eoss had received
and answered Verschoyle's letter i
and having heard no more from him, she had
decided that he had made up his mind to
regard her refusal to renew the terms upon
which they had once stood as final, and to
accept it without further remonstrance.

She was relieved on the whole, and though
perhaps not without a slight sense of pique,
she could not but allow that, especially in a
neighbourhood where he and his affairs were
so well known and likely to be so freely
canvassed, it was well that her past connection

with him should remain unguessed. It
was of this that she was speaking to her
sister one afternoon as they were returning
from their drive about five o'clock.

My letter has evidently put an effectual
end to the affair,' she was saying. ' I was
decided enough, though I was civil  extremely
civil. Civility is the only thing that
does carry conviction; people always think
it is temper if you are not. I must say I
am relieved that it should all be decided
before he comes down to this part of the
country  if he does come, that is, which I
suppose is doubtful under the circumstances.
Leaving myself out of the question '  it maybe
mentioned that this was a figure of speech
of the wildest description ; Mrs. Ross never
had been known, on any occasion whatever,
to leave herself out of the question  ' leaving
myself out of the question, I should have
been very sorry to have been the means of

bringing you into contact with Mr. Yer-school.
I shudder to think of Sir Cyril's
feelings, should he have discovered that I had
done so.'

She laughed maliciously as she spoke.

Sir Cyril ?' repeated Eve with rather cold
inquiry.

'You do not mean to deny that he has a
special interest in the matter ? How long are
you going to keep him waiting, Eve ?'

The girl turned a little away. It was the
first time that the subject had been openly
broached between them, yet she knew, nor
would she deny her knowledge of it, tint
Sir Cyril Courtney teas waiting ; and she
also knew  but this she had only quite lately
admitted even to herself  that it was possible
he might not wait in vain. Nothing could
have made her realize so clearly as this
consciousness the deadness of the past. She
would have rejoiced, had it been in her sower

to answer, as she would have done a year
ago, that it was impossible, out of the
question  to have resented the very suggestion
as an insult, both to her living, and to
Harry dead. But as it wfls, she knew, with
the inexorable truthfulness that was part of
her character, that the reason which so short
a time ago would have seemed all-sufficient
Alas gone  vanished ; and in its absence it
appeared likely that there would be none
other of sufficient strength to withstand much
longer Sir Cyril's own gentle, though hitherto
only half - expressed, persistence and the
wishes of his mother, aided and abetted as
they were by the strong affection she bore
them both. Perhaps, as her sister spoke, her
most prominent feeling was regret that she
lead not been married to Harry Courtney,
since such an arrangement would have
enabled her to retain his broth ei as her own
without danger of future complications. She
VOL. I. 5

could hardly have loved Cyril more had he
been her brother indeed  he was the closest
friend the world held for her  but perhaps
that very love made her the less willing to
contemplate a change in the terms upon
which they stood. Had she cared for him
less, less would have been at stake. Her
sister had been watching her curiously, and
now spoke again.

How long are you. going to keep him
waiting, Eve ?' she persisted.

I do not know,' said the girl slowly. It
was a confession, and she knew it.

They had turned in some minutes before
at the lodge-gates, and were drawing up at
the door. Kit, who was kneeling upon the
step of the porch, engaged in spinning a top
of a particularly attractive description, rose at
their approach, and desisted from his occupation,
hailing  their arrival with the alacrity of
one who has news of interest which he is

ready and anxious to impart. His voice
reached them almost before the carriage
stopped.

 The man is here what caught Tommy
when he ruined away,' he cried. Kit's
conversation, though fluent, and marked with
considerable acuteness, was not characterized
by grammatical correctness. 'He is waiting
in the drawing-room.'

'Mr. Yerschoyle!' exclaimed his mother,
with undisguised consternation. * Are you
sure it is he, Kit ? When did he come?'

About half an hour ago, ma'am,' said the
butler, coming forward. ' I informed him
that you and Miss Carrington were out
driving ; but he said that he had come upon
business, and would wait.' Jones's tone was
severe and disapproving to the last degree.

He is in the drawing-room ?' asked Mrs.
Ross, with an effort at disguising her dismay.
There, Eve !' she said in an undertone, as

52

the man retired. ' That comes of congratulating
one's self too soon. What is to be done
now ? What on earth can have brought him
here? I am sure my letter was explicit
enough. What shall I do ?

I suppose you can't refuse to see him,'
returned the girl. ' Delay, at all events, will
do no good. You had better go in at once.'

I suppose I must. But promise not to
leave us for long alone  one quarter of an
hour's tete-astute is all I will give him. Yes,
I know I said just now I would not be the
means of introducing you, but I can't help it.
Sir Cyril notwithstanding, you must promise
me to come and interrupt us.'

Eve gave the required pledge, though
reluctantly. She had a languid distaste to
the whole affair, and disliked the idea of being
mixed up in it, even to the extent of assisting
at the parting interview of her sister with the
man she had thrown over. It was evident,

however, that Mrs. Ross would not let her
refuse without more difficulty than the matter
was worth, and she accordingly resigned herself
to the inevitable.

Ashen Patricia had left her, she sat down on
the doorstep, idly watching her little nephew
and listening to his disjointed talk, whilst she
allowed her thoughts to wander away. At
her right there was a flower-bed under the
wall, where tall hollyhocks, not yet in bloom,
leant confidentially towards each other as if
imparting affairs of importance or gossip or
scandal, whilst a ribbon of mignonette below
made the air sweet. On her left, great heavy-headed
blush-roses were blowing on the wall.
The murmur of bees was all around. It was
a day when Nature seemed to have gone to
sleep, and only stirred from time to time in
dreamy contentment as a breeze passed over
it and rustled amongst the leaves. Kit
interrupted Miss Carrington's reflections.

Do you know Mi Aerschoyle ?' he
inquired, his eyes fixed on the top, which
.was just now spinning with marked success.
 No ? I do. Marie says he is a vaurien
finished Master Kit shrewdly.

Perhaps Marie does not know much about
it,' observed Eve absently, more from a dislike
of the child's gossip than from any desire
to defend the subject of it.

Kit, however, resenting her scepticism, took
Vi arms.

She does know,' he retorted. ' She knows
all about it  she says she does. He stole
money once, and she said he would have been
2iforqat if he had got what he deserved.'

The srirl rose and moved away. She did
not like her nephew, nor his conversation, and
had besides become aware that the quarter of
an hour had more than elapsed, at the end of
which she had promised Patricia to interrupt
her tete-astute with her andover.

She was not naturally shy; but still she
was conscious of some embarrassment as,
without allowing herself time for hesitation,
she opened the door of the drawing-room,
where the interview was taking place.

On the threshold, however, she paused.
Mrs. Ross was sitting on a low chair facing
her, just a little flushed and shaken out of her
habitual bright serenity. Above her, on the
hearth rug, stood Verschoyle. He was speaking
as Eve entered in a low measured voice,
but turned at the sound of the opening door,
and for a second faced her.

Sometimes in days to come Eve recalled
that moment, and her first look at his face,
with a vain and unavailing wonder that no
instinct had told her what it was to become
to her, that no compassionate warning had
been vouchsafed. But none such came.

What a handsome face !' was her first
thought ; ' what a disagreeable one !' her

second, as involuntarily Patricia's comment
upon his temper recurred to her mind. It
well might.

Every line of his countenance was set and
hard, his brows drawn together till they made
a straight black bar across his forehead ;
whilst the total absence of any sort of
violence, either of voice or manner, only
served to emphasize the restraint he was
putting upon himself.

It was but a moment before, acknowledging
with a slight bow the introduction that Mrs.
Ross, with manifest relief, hastened to make,
he turned to her again. If she had imagined
that her sister's presence would serve to put
an end to the discussion of disturbing topics,
she was to find out her mistake. Scarcely
pausing for a moment, he again took up the
thread of what he had been saying when
interrupted by Eve's entrance, and as if
unconscious of the presence of a third person.

Perhaps he had detected and resolved to
defeat Patricia's object.

Let us understand each other at last,' he
said. ' It would have been better had we
done so earlier. I am to understand that you
refuse me, not because, as you stated six
months ago, I am poor, nor because, as you
wrote last week, your mind has changed since
the time you promised to marry me, but
because I am a disgraced man ? Have I
expressed your meaning correctly ?'

 Why will you force me to put into words
what it is at least as painful to me to say as
it can be to you to hear ?'

With surprise Eve noticed a certain slight
quiver in her sister's voice ; she had yet to
learn that surface emotions are most easily
roused when there is no depth below*
Yerschoyle perhaps had judged Patricia with
greater accuracy when he had selected his
present mode of procedure as the one which

would olive him the chance of a revenge,
which, slight as it might be, was all that
it lay in his power to inflict upon the shallow
and selfish nature of the woman who had
wronged and deceived him. Of what additional
pain might accrue to himself in the
process he recked little. He was a man who,
like Samson, would have pulled down the
pillars of the house to crush his enemies,
though he himself should be involved in their
destruction.

I am sorry if it gives you pain,' he said.
His voice never changed from its level
modulations, but a touch of sarcasm found
its way into it as he spoke. ' I am sorry
to force you to say what gives you pain,
but you may set your solicitude at rest as
regards my share of it. It is my desire  it
is the reason for which I have sought this
interview  to have a distinct answer to the
question I have asked. Shall I repeat it ?

Is it now  and was it six months ago 
because I am a disgraced man that you have
refused to marry me ?'

There was a moment's pause. All had
happened so rapidly that Eve still stood on
the threshold. Till now she had had no
time to consider or to feel anything save a
painful sense of intrusion. Now, however,
hastily reviewing her position, she decided
that no promise to her sister should compel
her to be a further witness of the scene. But
as she turned to go Patricia's voice arrested
her.

Stay, Eve,' she said ; ' do not go.'

Still the girl hesitated  not for her own
sake only, but for Verschoyle's. Surely he
had a right to the explanation he had sought,
and to receive it unwitnessed. As if divining
her thoughts he, too, turned.

Pray stay, Miss Carrington,' he said, ' if
your sister prefers that you should be present.

It can make no difference to me who
hears the answer to the question I have
asked.'

Again there was a silence. Eve had
crossed over to the window-seat, and there
sat doAvn.

Glancing up at Gilbert she saw' that his
eyes were fixed on her sister, relentlessly compelling
her answer; and, as she looked, she
realized that, however it might have been
once, the passion that darkened them now
bore no relationship to love. He waited in
absolute silence.

Since you Avill have it  }'es,' Patricia said
at last.

And the reasons you gave me, then and
now, were false ?' he said.

Yes ;' her voice was barely audible.

Then there is nothing more to say, except
that if you had told me the truth six months
ago it would have saved us both this, and I,



at least, should have been the last to blame
you:

He turned to go. Patricia looked up. She
had risen and stood before him, her white
hands clasped, her hazel eyes, wet with tears,
raised to his. She did not, perhaps, love him ;
she had spoken with absolute and unusual
honesty when she had told Eve that she had
no heart ; yet now some transitory emotion
swayed her. There was nothing in Gilbert
Verschoyle, nothing in the tragedy and ruin
of his life, that had poAver to move her; yet
looking at his face, darkened with an anger
and a contempt she only dimly understood,
and remembering, as she could not choose but
do, that he was the man she had once at least
believed herself to love, some faint regret
stirred within her, though untouched by repentance.


Gilbert, forgive me,' she said.

Forgive you  I have nothing to forgive.'

He paused and looked her steadily in the face,
scanning it line by line. ' Yet I will do more
-  I tJumk you.'

He turned to leave the room. As he did
so, moved by a sudden impulse, Eve came
forward.

'Good-bye,' she said.

He paused, surprised, and took the hand
she had held out, meeting the grave eyes lie
raised to his.

Good-bye,' he said, then dropping her
hand, was gone.

As the door closed behind him, Patricia
turned to her sister ; already the momentary
ripple of emotion which had stirred her was
over. Relief, clear and manifest, was in her
face, and in the long breath she drew.

Well, that is over,' she said. ' What do
you think of him?'

He is not guilty,' answered Eve absently.

What ! tried and acquitted !' said Patricia,

7

with a light laugh. ' May one ask your
grounds ? You heard him  he did not deny
it. Upon what do you found your assertion
?'

'I don't know  nothing, I suppose,' answered
the girl ; ' but I am sure that he is
innocent.'

Don't be too sure, my dear child,' said
sirs. Koss gaily ; ' or rather be as sure as soit
like, but don't act upon your certainty. It is
a safe rule in life to believe everyone to be
good  which is pleasant ; and to act upon the
opposite assumption  which is wise.'

She laughed again, but Eve did not respond.
Verschoyle's face was still before her, his
bitter words in her ears ; and yet it was not
them alone which lent the sadness to her eyes
as she gazed out into the yellowing light of
the summer evening. It was as if through
them a vista had been opened to her into
another sphere than that  pure, serene, and

untroubled  in which she was an habitual
dweller ; and she gazed with sad and fascinated
eyes into a world of lost possibilities, of
trampled; ideals and wrecked hopes ; a world in
which poor humanity struggled in vain, and
agonized, and was lost. It is strange with
what suddenness such glimpses into other
worlds than our own visit us, flashing across
our vision with the blinding vividness of
lightning, and sometimes vanishing almost as
swiftly, leaving behind them only a dim recollection
of gates rolled back, and of sights and
sounds  of possibilities  other than those of
which we had dreamt, and which confuse and
bewilder us with their new and startling significance.
We can scarcely trace, perhaps,
whence they came, how they originated ; but
one thing is certain, that once having been,
they are never completely forgotten. Ignorance
is retrievable, knowledge never. The
realization, brought home for the first time,

that side by side with the world of mercy and
truth in which our lines may have been cast,'
there exist others in which wrong and injustice
and cruelty are triumphant, and
tyranny bears sway, corresponds in the moral
and spiritual sphere to the effect that the first:
personal realization of death in the physical
world produces. It had been believed in
before, now it is known, and the taint and
brand of mortality lies upon all living
things.

Truly many worlds exist, some touching
and intersecting each other, but of which the
inhabitants are ignorant of the language of any
save their own ; some, again, as remote and
separated by as wide and deep a gulf as that
across which Dives cried to Abraham in vain,
but from which some Lazarus still looks
down in pity, and would fain quit Abraham's
bosom to go and slake, if so he might, the
thirst of some sinner below.

VOL. I. 6

To Eve Carrington, Verschoyle had been all
unconsciously the exponent and interpreter of
a new world more tragic than any at which
she had yet guessed.

He is innocent she repeated to herself,
as she had before said to her sister  ' I know
that he is innocent ; but the brand of the
accusation is on his life, and it is ruining him
body and soul. God help him!*

T was some few days later when
one morning not long after breakfast
was over, Eve and Mrs. Ross,
who were sitting together in the drawing-room,
were interrupted by a visitor.

I suppose I ought to apologize for coming
so early,' said Sir Cyril Courtney, opening
the door and entering unannounced. It was
a habit he had retained from the days when
he and Eve had expected to be brother and
sister, and Eve looked up with a smile of
welcome. To her, indeed, he seldom came
amiss.

He was a man of perhaps eight or nine and

(o2

twenty, not above middle height, although,
owing to the smallness of his head, he
gave the impression of being taller. His
hair, smooth and close cut, was of the
light shade of brown which borders upon
yellow ; he had keen restless eyes, and a
thin face with marked features, whilst the
touch of colour upon the cheekbones, easily
produced by any excitement or annoyance,
gave an impression of delicacy confirmed
by the narrow build of his chest and
shoulders. It was a face denoting more
weakness than strength, and there were,
moreover, lines about the thin flexible mouth,
unshaded by any moustache, which indicated a
tendency to discontent or querulousness ; yet,
taken altogether, he was not without a certain
attractiveness of his own which took effect on
his surroundings. Whatever might be the
reason, he was a man who generally got his
way, whether because he was in the habit of

taking it for granted that such would be the
case, or whether he obtained it by the touch
of feminine weakness which was characteristic
of him, rather than by the influence of more
masculine qualities. However that might be,
and whatever might be his faults and deficiencies,
there were few people that Eve loved
more than Cyril Courtney. It was an affection
made up of many fibres, interwoven with
old memories, common sorrows, and the closeness
of present intimacy, and partaking
somewhat of the inalienable and ineradicable
nature commonly supposed to belong only toties
of blood.

I ought to apologize,' he repeated.  But
to-day, at least, I am not without excuse.
My mother sent me.'

He had come forward and had shaken
hands with Eve and Mrs. Ross, before proceeding
to take possession of the biggest
armchair the room afforded. Sir Cyril, Eve

sometimes told him, had an absolute genius
for making himself comfortable : he would
have contrived it even under the most unpromising
circumstances  in a railway waiting-room,
or a third-class carriage.

My mother hopes you will both come and
stay next week. If I could have seen you
separately I should have held out different
inducements. I should have told you, Mrs.
Ross, that you would find a brilliant and
witty company assembled to meet you ; and
Eve, that charity compelled her to come and
help us to entertain the dullest party we
could possibly have got together. Finding
you, however, both here, I have no alternative
but to deliver my mother's message honestly.'

One is obliged to have recourse to truth
occasionally, as a last resource,' observed Mrs.
Ross parenthetically.

Oh, not often,' replied Sir Cyril. ' One
likes to keep it in reserve ; it is emphatically

one of the things not intended for common
use. I am sure you agree with me ?'

He had "glanced at Mrs. Ross With a bright
keen glance, not unmingled With irony, and
suggestive of some recollection on his part of
Patricia's characteristics. Eve, too, glanced
at her sister, sensible of a slight curiosity as
to Mrs. Ross's reply. The latter, however,,
was embarrassed neither by Cyril's appeal
nor by Eve's observation, though she was not
unaware of it.

Agree with you ? well, perhaps so,' she
answered ; * I reverence truth too much to
love it. But to return from the moral to the
practical question, may we not hear what was
Lady Courtney's message ?'

'I was coming to that. It is that her
guests are a dull set, and that she makes it
her special request that you will give her
your assistance in entertaining them.'

Are you sure that you are delivering your

mother's message correctly after all ?' asked
Eve. ' Has she ever been known to call her
guests, or indeed anyone else, dull ?' -

 I was true to the sph-it, though perhaps
not to the letter. That is my idea of veracity
people commonly reverse it. What she did
say was that she vas afraid they might find
it dull, which comes to precisely the same
thing. You should correct your tendency
to a carping and cavilling spirit, Miss
Carrington. If half a dozen people are
incapable of amusing each other, it follows
that they are dull people, and in this case
the inference is certainly correct. Therefore,
I appeal to your charity. Eve, at least, hasa
fund of it  haven't you discovered it, Mrs.
Ross  a tendency to espouse the cause of the
worst specimens of the human race ?'

Yes, perhaps so,' replied Patricia. ' Yes,'
as she remembered the incident of two days
ago  ' I believe you are right.'

I am sure I am. Her capacity for
idealism is simply boundless, and of course
the lower the object you select to exercise
it upon, the greater the scope it affords.
Yell, to return  Eve's charity will bring
her, I am sure ; and you, Mrs. loss, can
borrow a little of hers. She Avill never miss
it, even if you do not remember to give it
back when done with ; and I think I can
promise you will be honest in that respect.
It is a most inconvenient commodity to carry
about with you.'

Do you speak from experience ?' inquired
Patricia. It may be observed that Cyril was
not noted for his general good-nature.

I do. I tried it once  long ago, when I
was young and impressionable. I never
spoke any harm of anyone for a week 
never took away a character, or made an
ill-natured remark ; but I couldn't keep it
up. My best friends began to find me tiresome.

Then I tried doing kind actions, as
the copy-books say, but that answered still
worse. Not one of them turned out well.
My worst failure was when I undertook to
propose to a lady for a man who was too
shy to manage it for himself. I did it so
Avell, too. She accepted me  him, I mean 
at once; but would you believe it  I found
it was the other sister he had meant, and sIlc
had meant me ! I was never more crushed in
my life.'

It was inconvenient,' observed Mrs. Ross
sympathetically. ' What did you do ?'

Oh, I got them married  I insisted upon
it. I told him she was much nicer than her
sister. I dare say she was. I didn't like
either of them.'

'And what did you tell her  that he was
nicer than you ?'

'Xo, that would have been too much for
my conscience; he wasn't nice at all. That

Alas the reason,' plaintively, ' that I undertook
the business. Xo woman in her senses
could have accepted him if he had proposed
for himself. No, I told her I could not
betray my friend's confidence  it sounded
very Avell  also that he was just about twice
as well off as I was. She made up her
mind to it, and the marriage has turned out
remarkably well, except that my friend has
never liked me quite as well since. It is
ungrateful of him, after all I went through.
Then you will come ? I may tell my mother
she may reckon upon you? It will really bea
relief to her; lie is not equal to entertaining
a houseful unassisted. I often wish
with a veiled glance at Eve, ' that she had a
daughter.'

You have not yet told us who we are to
have the pleasure of meeting,' observed Eve,
interrupting Sir Cyril's reflections.  Of what
does the party consist?'

Let me think. There is Lord Ralston 
I put him first, because he invariably puts
himself so. He is a man with a future I
think that exactly describes him. There is
nothing else worth mentioning about him. I
detest men with futures ; they are a class by
themselves. A man with a past is bad
enough ; but at least there is a chance it may
contain something or somebody besides himself,
whereas a man's future never does.'

You are quite right,' agreed Mrs. Ross.
 x\lso, there is nothing to attack in a man's
future. It places one at a great disadvantage.
We are to understand, then, that you dislike
Lord Ralston ?'

Very much,' answered Sir Cyril candidly.
 He is one of the few men who possess absolutely
no redeeming points in my eyes. I used
to take some little interest in annoying him ;
but I even got tired of that. I had discovered
that he liked arguing better than anything

else in the wo.' id, so I not only made a point
of agreeing with him, but emphasized all his
remarks. He has such a contempt for my
intellect that he began to doubt the wisdom
of his own views when he discovered that I
shared them. He hates me,' concluded Sir
Cyril with satisfaction ; ' I never succeeded
better ; he never addresses me now when he
can possibly help it. Then the Erskiness are
coming ; the parson and his sisters. I should
rather like the Miss Erskiness if they were not
so active, and did not expect to be taken to
walk or drive every day ; and, besides, they
talk slang. I hate a woman dio talks
slang. The brother is a good little chap.
I like him. I met him this morning, by the
way/ laughing at the recollection. ' He is
sorely exercised in his ministerial mind about
an addition lately made to his flock. It seems
Yerschoyle has come home  the fellow who
forged, you know  and Erskine is afraid he

may have a bad influence on the parish ; a
case of wickedness in high places. I comforted
him by assurances that he couldn't possibly
intend to live there ; but little Erskine
was quite perturbed. I believe he Alas not
certain that it was not his duty to try and
reclaim the sinner.'

Did he ask your advice ?' inquired ]airs.
Ross rather nervously, as Eve made no comment.


Xot exactly, but I gave it. I advised him
to let Yerschoyle alone. Well, then, two or
three more men are coming, and that is all.
It does not sound lively, does it ? But a
week can't last for ever with the best will in
the world, and I dare say we shall survive it.
You will come ?'

He had turned to Eve, and she assented ;
yielding also to his subsequent suggestion
that she should accompany him as far as the
stables, where he had left his horse.



They walked down the avenue, talking' of
Mrs Ross and her stay at Xortons, of familiar
and embarrassing topics ; but through all
Eve was vaguely and disquieting conscious,
as she had not seldom been of late, that a disturbing
element was growing daily more a]3t
to interrupt the ease of their intercourse. In
the presence of others it Alas less apparent ;
but when with Cyril alone, there was a restlessness,
almost amounting to impatience, in
his manner which troubled her. She knew,
as her sister had said, that he was waiting,
and perhaps guessed that, though he dared
not as yet put it to the touch, he was begin -
nine; to find the waiting' lonf. She sighed
as she noticed the occasional jar in his
voice, and the little touches of temper that
betrayed themselves, as it were, in spite of
himself.

 You should have the trees thinned he
said, as they came to a spot where several of a

group were pressing upon one another. * They
will be spoilt

Perhaps you are right,' answered the girl.
I will speak to Baylis about it. He told me
some time ago that it ought to be done, but I
put it oiF. I like to leave everything as it is
as long as possible.'

I am glad you added that saving clause,'
said Courtney. 'What can remain as it is ? If
you force a thing to be stationary, it only
means death to itself or its neighbours. Look
at the destruction that larch is inflicting
around it. It is, after all, only selfishness
"dressed up as sentiment.' He was trying to
speak lightly, but there was a tone in this
voice which belied his attempt. ' Sometimes
he added abruptly, and with seeming irrelevance
to the subject in hand  * sometimes I
hate the past.'

The past ?' repeated Eve absently. She
was thinking for how long the past had

seemed to her to contain all that "was worth
loving, how even her affection for Cyril himself
owed half its force and depth to it. ' What
is the past ? Nothing is really past so long
his it lives in us. It is of our faithlessness
alone that it is born.*

She was speaking dreamily ; but Cyril looked
at her with a sort of restless impatience.

You would like the impossible he said.
You would like to prove that the world can
stand still, and everything remain as it was.
You are wrong; however convincing your
arguments may be, " e ir si muovey '

Eve did not at once answer. Certain of his
words had struck home, and raised a question
in her own heart. Was her lingering over
the past, her reluctance to dissociate herself
from it by what would be a new departure 
Alas it indeed, as he had hinted, selfishness
in the form of sentiment ? She looked at Cyril
rather wistfully, but made no answer ; and a

VOL. I. 7

few minutes later, having readied the stables,
they parted. As she walked back alone to
the house, her head bent and her eyes on the
ground, Eve pondered. She knew that, though
Cyril's words had been spoken in jest, he Jiad
meant what they implied, and she wondered if
the implication was just. Was she selfish ?
Was she wasting the life of the man she loved
best in the world, the dearest friend  with all
his faults  that she possessed, for no good
reason? The question forced itself on her in
spite of herself, and bringing with it the
consciousness that the answer to it could not
be long delayed.

*****
When, an hour later, Cyril entered his
mother's sitting-room, he found her alone and
engaged with some white work, which she put
down as he came in. She had a sweet placid
face and fair hair, as yet only touched with grey,
smoothed away under a cap of soft, fine lace.

Yes, they will come he said, in answer to
her question. ' I told Eve that you could not
do without her. I was right, was I not?'
comhio; to lean over the back of her chair.
He had the manner, caressing if exacting, of
a spoilt child.

Quite right, my dear,' answered Lady
Courtney. ' Did you tell her '  with a gentle
smile  'that you could not do without her
either ?'

He too smiled, though colouring slightly.

Not yet,' he said. There were no secrets
between them.

You are patient,' she said, with something
not unlike a sigh.

That,' he answered, a momentary cloud
crossing his face, ' is a virtue that has been
forced upon me. And what have you been
doings this morninci:?' he added, chanoinor the
subject.

Little Dorothy Yerschoyle has been here.

72

Poor child, I am sorry for her. I am sure
she feels her position.'

Dorothy Yerschoyle ?' repeated Cyril,
bringing his attention with some difficulty to
hear upon the subject. ' Why is she to be
pitied ? Oh, you mean because of her unlucky
brother. It is unfortunate, certainly  the
more so since her father chose to die in that
casual way. She is actually left to this man's
guardianship, isn't she?'

 His sole guardianship  yes. It is most
unfortunate, poor little girl ! If she had not
such good principles I should feel very

anxious about her ; and as it is '

As it is, my dear mother, I don't think
sou need feel the slightest uneasiness about
Miss Dorothy. I am sorry for her, of course,
and I think it is an instance of the irony of
destiny to have put such a little piece of propriety
into the guardianship of a man like
Yerschoyle. There is really a sort of dramatic

incongruity about it ; but I think you need
Lave no fear that she will be led into evil
courses. She has far too profound a sense of
what is due to herself. In two or three years,
when she is grown up, the real inconvenience
of the situation will appear.'

She tells me he is come home.'
Ah, so Erskine said. I suppose he has
only just run down to see to things. He
cannot be meaning to stay.'

I think he is  from what the child
said. I did not like to ask her much about
him.'

It will be a most ill-judged proceeding if
he does said Sir Cyril, with some heat,
The only thing for a man of that sort to do 
especially if he has the luck to have moneys
to take himself clean off to a new place and
try to make a fresh start of it. Here, where
every soul knows his story, it is an impossible
position.'

ALLEGIANCE.

Yet it seems hard on him,' said Lady
Courtney softly

He has been hard upon himself retorted
Sir Cyril. ' A man ought to suffer the penalty
of his acts. Where would society be if he
did not? Women  forgive me, my dearest-mother
 never take a right view of these
things. It seems there is some mental incapacity
about them which prevents it. They
are invariably soft where they ought to be
hard, and hard where they ought to be soft.
I am as sorry as you can be for the whole
business ; and I am the last man in the world
to be hard on a fellow when he is down  I
have not the belief in human nature and the
impossible standard of virtue that such an
inclination presupposes ; but after all there
must be limits to toleration, and I think
dishonesty  cheating, in fact  marks that
limit.'

Then you will not leave your card?'

No.' He got up and went to stand over
the empty fireplace. ' No, I don't see that it
would do anything but harm ; it could only
lead to complications in the future. I couldn't
have a fellow of that kind about the house ;
it is not fair upon the people who might meet
him. You must see it yourself, my dear
mother' -sir Cyril spoke with some impatience;
all the more because, as he had said,
he was not a man to be hard upon another
when he was down, and felt somewhat
aggrieved by having such a position forced
upon him by circumstances  ' you must see

it yourself. Imagine Eve  anyone ' he

broke off. * I have no doubt life has been
rough enough upon Yerschoyle, poor beggar ;
but that doesn't alter the facts, or one's duty
towards society. I can't have a forger,
who happened to escape conviction, at the
house.'

I suppose you are right,' said his mother ;

but she sighed as she took up her work
again. Perhaps Cyril was right, and women
have a natural incapacity for taking a just
view on such subjects.

iT was, after all, alone that Eve set
out the next week to keep her
engagement and pay the promised
visit to the Courtneyss.

At the last moment Mrs. Ross had received
a communication from her solicitor, which
rendered it necessary that she should go at
once to London to sign papers and transact
business, though she hoped to get it done intime
to return the next day and join her sister
at Mace Court.

It is very tiresome,' she had said discontentedly,
when the summons arrived b}' the
afternoon post the day before. ' Old Kent is

so fussy ; he declares it is absolutely necessary
the papers should be signed at once. I wish
he would do it himself. It would be an
indictable offence ? Well, what if it is ? it
is just like his selfishness not to be willing
to run the risk rather than bring me up to
London in this weather.'

You have a high standard of unselfishness,'
said Eve, unable to suppress a smile.

Ah, I know what you mean. You think
I am selfish myself. Perhaps I am, but I
only want to be happy and enjoy life. Nobody
else has a right to my happiness.
Everybody should look out for themselves,
and then everybody would be properly
attended to ; whereas the state of affairs,
which has somehow got to be considered the
ideal one, is exactly like a badly managed
Irish household, where all the servants  from
the best of motives, no doubt  are running
about doing each other's work. Nobody

knows our wants so well as we do; therefore
it is only common-sense to say we had
each better take care of ourselves. It is the
unusual case of an exactly balanced state of
supply and demand  one person to attend to
one person, whereas on the opposite theory
everyone is to attend to everyone, except
themselves. It comes to exactly the same
thing in the end, only the work is done
badly instead of well.'

And what if two people happen to want
the same thing ?'

/Ah, then comes in the droit du j)Iuh fort.
After all, it is the easiest way of settling the
matter.'

Eve was silent, half amused, half sad. She
knew Patricia's theories were actually those
upon which she based her life and conduct.
She never combated, never even openly
blamed them; she had long lived down her
young impatience of low standards and

unworthy rules of life, and she had also
outlived her young hope of changing them
where they existed. She Alas accustomed to
take people as she found them  a little sad,
perhaps, but neither hard upon them nor
impatient.

Mrs. Ross started early the next morning,
intending to have the day in London, and
get, if possible, the business which had taken
her there completed. The weather was,
indeed, oppressively and unusually hot, even
for July. There had been no rain for weeks ;
the roads were white and dusty, and the
lawns and hedges parched.

Eve's head had been aching all day, and
she had put off her seven miles' drive till an
hour when the heat might be reasonably
expected to have, in some degree at least,
spent itself. It was, therefore, between five
and six in the evening that she set off.

She Alas tired by the long hot day, and.

lay back in a corner of the carriage, closing
her eyes, and giving herself up to the
luxurious dreaminess which rapid movement
through the air, coupled with physical weariness,
is wont to produce. She was, however,
doomed to interruption. They had not gone
flor  Avere, in fact, not more than two or
three miles from home  when, having just
descended a steep hill covered with loose
rolling stones, the coachman drew up with
a jerk.

Is anything wrong ?' she asked, opening
her eyes. ' What is the matter, Griffiths T

One of the horses has cast a shoe, ma'am,'
returned that functionary, having descended
to ascertain the extent of the mischief. ' He
is going lame, too.'

How very inconvenient !' exclaimed Eve.
She knew the country well ; they were at
least four miles from their destination, and
she was well aware, moreover, that there

was no forge nearer than the one in the little
village below Norton. ' How very inconvenient
! What can be done ?'

I am sure I don't know, miss replied
Griffiths. ' I am afraid we must just drive
him slowly home.'

Eve considered. By the time she reached
Norton it would be already past six, and
before she could make another start it would
be certainly too late to bring her to Mace
in time for dinner. However, there was
evidently no alternative, and she was preparing
to acquiesce in Griffiths's decision,
when a dogcart, driving rapidly from the
direction in which they had come, slackened
its pace preparatory to passing the carriage,
which filled up most of the space in the
narrow lane, and then pulled up short at the
sight of Griffiths, still standing on the road,
contemplating his horses with perplexity
depicted upon his face.

Is anything the matter ?' said a voice Eve
had heard before. 'Can I be of any assistance
T

She turned round with a swift movement,
and once more her eyes met those of Gilbert
Yerschoyle.

Her face had been turned away, and, coming
up behind, he had not recognised the occupant
of the carriage. As he caught sight of
her, and took off his hat in acknowledgment
of her bow, a change, slight but significant,
passed over his face, and he turned at once
again to the coachman, repeating his question
with a shade more of stiffness in his manner.
- Griffiths replied by an exhaustive account
of the accident, dilating moreover upon its
special inopportuneness. He was inclined to
be garrulous, and being unacquainted with
Yerschoyle's personal appearance, saw in him
only a gentleman evidently known to his
mistress.

Gilbert paused before he answered. When
he spoke it was without looking at Eve, and
in the perfunctory manner of a man who is
making an offer which civility demands, but
which he neither wishes nor expects to be
accepted.

If you like to avail yourself of my dogcart,
Miss Carrington,' he said, ' it is quite at
your service. Your servant,' glancing at
Griffiths, * could no doubt leave the horses to
be taken home by the groom.'

He was making; it clear that it was his doo-
cart and not his escort that he was offering.
Eve hesitated. If the proposal had come from
any other man equally little known to her, she
would in all probability have declined it ; but
the very fact which would have operated with
most people in precisely the opposite direction
  her knowledge, namely, of the character he
bore, and the consciousness which his manner
conveyed that he expected and anticipated a

refusal  made her hesitate. Griffiths, however,
interposed, in a low voice inaudible to the
groom :

I am very sorry, ma'am, but 1 could not
trust James to take the horses home. He only
came last week,' he added explanatorily to
Yerschoyle, 'and knows no more about driving
than a child.'

Then I am afraid there is no help for it,'
said Yerschoyle. ' The engagement must be
broken, I am afraid, Miss Carrington  unless
indeed,' again he spoke with studied indifference,
'you would let me leave you at Mace
Court.'

Again the thought of the construction he
would be likely to put upon a refusal on her
part was uppermost in her mind, as she
answered quickly.

Thank you,' she said. ' It would really
not take you too far out of your way ? then I
shall be very grateful.'

VOL. I. 8

She had spoken without giving herself time
for consideration ; but she had scarcely uttered
the words before the sense of the anomaly of
her position seized upon her, accepting, as
she was doing, a favour from the man whom
her sister had thrown over. If she had failed
to perceive the singularity of the situation, it
would have been brought home to her by the
flash of surprise which, suppressed as it was
almost at once, yet crossed his face. It was,
however, done and irrevocable ; in two minutes
more he had helped her into the dogcart, and
she was driving rapidly by his side through
the narrow lanes.

As she realized more and more distinctly
the position into which she had put herself by
yielding to her ill-considered impulse, Eve
became, for one of the first times in her life,
the prey of an overwhelming embarrassment.
She was not used to be shy, though the quietness
of her manner sometimes gave the impression

that she was so ; but now her face
burnt, and her hands grew coke Ahead she
bitterly repented her rash act of Quixotism, as
she knew Patricia would have called it  would
call it now if, as she trusted would never bethe
case, it came to her knowledge. She sat
looking straight before her in the short
silence that ensued, her hands nervously
clasping each other as they lay together
on her knee.

Yerschoyle, for his part, said nothing ; instinctively
she guessed that he would make no
effort to relieve any embarrassment she might
feel. He had made his offer because, under the
circumstances, he could scarcely do less ; and
since she had fallen into the inconceivable
mistake of accepting his proposal, he had had
no choice but to act upon it, but he evidently
meant to do nothing to help her to forget the
peculiarity of the situation.

Presently, feeling that anything would be

82

preferable to silence, lie spoke in a low, rapid
tone, which was even a little tremulous.

It was fortunate for me that you happened
to pass,' she said. ' They are expecting me at
Mace, and I should have been terribly late if I
had had to return home again. I am so much
obliged to you.'

Pray do not mention it,' he answered
formally. ' The obligation is all on my side.
Also, I shall scarcely have to go two hundred
yards out of my way. The road runs straight
past the lodge-gates.'

You live some way beyond Mace, do you
not ?' she asked, catching at anything to say
rather than relapse into silence, and again
aware that she had no assistance to expect
from Yerschoyle in her efforts at conversation.


Two miles,' he answered laconically.
You had come far to-day,' she went on,
still with the sensation of laying hold of any

plank to enable lier to keep her head above
water. * Had you been to see the Grants ?'

No he said shortly. ' I do not know
them. I know nobody.'

His tone completed her confusion. Unpleasant
as it was, she guessed that it was not
unintentionally or accidentally so, but was
meant to be an explicit declaration of his
position, as if he might have imagined that
she had intended to sound him on the subject.
The fear that he might, indeed, have so misunderstood
her question deprived her of her
last remains of self-possession.

I  I beg your pardon,' she said hastily.

What ! for imafiinino that I miiht be
acquainted with the Grants? That, surely,
scarcely requires an apology  unless, indeed,
their acquaintance should be particularly compromising.'


Again his tone was disagreeable, as if he had
detected her embarrassment and was amusing

himself at her expense. Eve made no answer.
Absolutely and entirely miserable as she Yas,
she was feeing acutely that she had only herself
to thank for the predicament in which lie was
placed, and the consciousness did not tend to
lessen her annoyance. Presently Verschoyle
bent to arrange her dress, which Alas
dangerously near the wheel; and in doing so,
for the first time he looked full at her. On
the only other occasion upon which they had
met he had had no attention to spare for
Mrs. Ross's sister; but now, as he surveyed
her steadily and deliberately, she acquired a
new interest in his eyes, though it was one
which took its colour and tone from the recollection
of her relationship to Patricia. When
he spoke again, his voice and manner had
changed to a cool and careless familiarity
which was more distasteful to the girl than
his former constraint and moody silence.
Confess that you consider me an ill-mannered

brute, Miss Carrington,' he said,
smiling, 'and that you regret having so far
forgotten yourself as to allow me the honour
of driving you to Mace

Eve made no answer. She was conscious of
a ridiculous inclination  to which she would
have died sooner than give way  to cry, like
a child who had been roughly treated. Yer-school,
however, took no notice of her silence,
but talked on in the same tone, regardless of
her short responses, and doing his best to efface
any impression his former taciturnity might
have produced. His conversation was not
otherwise than agreeable, yet as Eve listened
she became more and more silent. It was not
vso much that she resented his tone to herself,
though the slight, almost imperceptible shade
of disrespect did not escape her, nor the touch
of familiarity, new to her experience as it was.
Tt was not anger, or at least not chiefly nor
principally anger, that she felt. There was at all

times little room in her nature for the rankling
of a personal slight; and had it been otherwise,
how could she resent his tone when he spoke
lightly of women, when it had  alas!  been
her own sister who had helped to teach him
to do so? how be angry at the veiled and
bitter sarcasms hidden behind his jests, when
the world at which he scoffed had deserved so
ill at his hands? It was not anger that she
felt, but something deeper and sadder. Once
again he was opening and unfolding to her
that world of injustice and bitterness and
wrong of which he had unconsciously been
her first exponent; and gazing into it, a great
compassion, which left no place for resentment,
filled her for the man who represented it ; a
pity which was only deepened by every word
or sign which indicated the injury his whole
nature had sustained. Had he come through
the ordeal unscathed she might, nay, certainly
would, have honoured him ; but she would

not have felt the passion of pity  it is a
passion with some women, strong as that to
A\'iiich it is said to be akin  which swept across 
her now, worsted as she instinctively felt him
to have been in the struggle, scarred and
defaced by it morally and spiritually.

Her attention had wandered from what he
was saying, although she was apparently
listening and making what answers were
necessary. Suddenly, however, it was recalled
by a direct appeal.

It was hard luck, was it not. Miss Carrington?'
he was saying. 'Do you not feel
sorry for me?'

She turned, startled yet scarcely surprised.
Detached as the words were, so far as she was
concerned, from all that had preceded them,
they chimed in with strange relevancy with
the thoughts in which she had been lost.
She forgot that he was a stranger speaking to
a stranger ; did not wait to consider the

improbability  rather the impossibility  that
he should be, in earnest, claiming her sympathy.
Abruptly, without pause or hesitation,
she answered, as if his question had
borne reference, not to the trifle of which he
had been speaking, but to that for which
Gilbert Yerschoyle had never asked or accepted
sympathy or compassion from living
soul, and for which, had they ever been
offered, he would have flung them back with
scorn.

Do you not feel sorry for me ?' he had
asked.

I do  I do,' she said, with a catch in her
voice that was like a sob.

As the words and tone struck his ear he
turned in sharp inquiry, meeting, as he did
so, her eyes fixed upon him. For a moment
they looked straight into his, grave, compassionate
and sorrowful, and in the involuntary
unspoken question and answer that

flashed between them the meaning of her
words was made plain to him. The next
moment he had turned abruptly away, flushing
darkly.

Even now habit was strong, and a scoffing
retort rose to his lips, but there it died.
After that one look he never glanced towards
her, looking steadily before him as they
drove on.

They had already nearly reached their
destination, and were passing through a
village about half a mile from the house.
A few scattered cottages on the edge of rich
pasture-land ; one or two women standing at
their doors with babies in their arms ; some
little children playing on a bit of dried-up
grass, while a dog, looking on at the game,
lazily stretched himself; a glimpse of scattered
red roofs among cornfields  then the little
bit of human life was over, and once more
they were driving on in solitude.

Yet those few minutes lead effected a change
that years of common intercourse might have
failed to do. Between them now was the
subtle indestructible link of an unspoken
confidence, a question asked and answered
straight from soul to soul.

They drove the remaining half-mile in
silence, absolute and unbroken. When he
had drawn up at the door, he helped her
down, still without speaking.

 Good-bye,' she said. The slanting yellow
liorht  the evening:: was closing in  fell on
her fair grave face and sad eyes as she stood
a little above him on the step in her
clinging white dress, a fading spray of
heliotrope at her throat, and her hand held
out.

Yerschoyle looked at her, straight and
steadily, a curious unaccustomed sensation
stealing over him  something that was half
remorse, half a regret. Yet, when he turned

:25

a moment later to go, he had not seemed to
see her offered band ; only silently lifted his
hat, and drove away through the darkening
avenue to his home.

HE party at Mace, after all, did not
prove other than a success. It is
always difficult to foretell successor
failure in such a case ; a turn of the
kaleidoscope may alter the position of all the
component parts, and disprove the most careful
forecasts.

Sir Cyril was perhaps right when he
described Lord Ralston as a man with a
future ; it was at least certain that it was in
this light that he regarded himself His
future was, as it were, his stock in trade. It
was also true that, being now forty years of
age, his best friends and firmest disciples were

beginning to feel dimly conscious that it was
time that the future which had been so constantly
and hopefully discussed should become
the present. Hitherto there had always
existed excellent reasons why that process
should be deferred. He had had a serious
illness ; his friends had been out of power ; he
himself had been anxious to attain to a
greater degree of the cultivation and general
knowledge for which, as he was wont to say,
he would have no time hereafter, before
launching himself finally on the sea of public
life. All these reasons and causes for delay
had seemed plausible ; but there is a limit
even to praiseworthy caution, and, as has
been said, his friends were beginning to be
of opinion that the limit had been reached.
Whether Lord Ralston thought so himself
was another matter. There was a serene
self-complacency about him which argued
entire confidence and conviction of final

success, and it was perhaps on this account
that people still to a certain extent believed
in him ; belief in one's self being the first
qualification for inspiring faith. Still it cannot
be denied that many people were beginning
to find Lord Ralston' s future long in coming,
and to listen with less patience than formerly
to his hints on the, subject.

From her first appearance on the scene,
however, Mrs. Ross had taken an interest in
it. Whatever may be the sentiments with
which a man's problematical career may be
regarded by others, it has an interest all its
own for those who may feel themselves
personally involved in its success or failure ;
and from the first it had occurred to Patricia
that this might not impossibly be the case
with herself. Before she had been four-and-twenty
hours under the same roof with his
lordship, she had taken his measure, had
weighed him in her dispassionate balances,

and had decided that, with all its disadvantages,
the prize was not unworthy to be
striven for ; and since she had appeared at
Mace, Lord Ralston had been upon no one
else's hands.

It is true nobody grudged him to her. Sir
Cyril, so far as his duties as host allowed it,
was as usual devoting himself to Eve ; the
Miss Erskiness were dividing their attention
between lawn-tennis and riding, and their
brother, a red-haired, zealous little parson,
suspected of broad views, tolerant, kindly
and popular, was usually absent most of the
day, superintending parochial matters in the
village, some three miles off, where his duty
lay.

To Eve the visit had been pleasant. She
loved Lady Courtney, and had always accounted
her house a second home since the
days of her loss ; and she had acquired a sort
of quiet dexterity in avoiding tete-fetes or

VOL. I. 9

exciting topics with her host. Of the manner
of her arrival Miss Carrington had said
nothing. She was singularly indifferent to
the opinion of the world, even to that part
of it formed by her own immediate circle of
friends  singularly so, that is, considering her
gentle and defiant nature. It might have
been the solitude in which for the most part
she lived, which had given her the habit of
adopting her own views and acting upon them
quietly, unobtrusively, without parade, but
equally without hesitation. If they seemed to
clash with the opinions of those she loved 
and they were few  or to whom she owed
deference, she was sorry; but it did not occur
to her to alter them on that account, and still
less to alter the course of action resulting
from them. Beneath her soft exterior there
lay a fund of strength and determination of
which few suspected the existence. But, for
that very reason, it had grown into a habit

with her to be silent when speech would have
evoked disapproval or remonstrance.

Had she been questioned as to her mode of
reaching Mace, she would have answered with
the whole truth ; but being in the position 
peculiar at her age  of there existing none to
whom it was due that she should render an
account of her actions, she kept the matter, in
the absence of questions, to herself. It had
taken place, whether rightly or wrongly, by
her own choice ; it was done, and in her heart
she did not regret it. But being conscious
that it might appear differently to other eyes,
she simply kept silence on the subject.

On the third afternoon after her arrival,
most of the party were scattered about
under the trees on the lawn, where tea had
been brought, waiting till it should be cool
enough for any exertion in the shape of lawn-tennis,
walking, or riding.

Eve, somewhat apart, under a big horses



chestnut-tree, was talking to Cyril, or rather
listening to him as he lay at her feet, watching
with lazy amusement the rest of the party and
making his comments upon them. He was
not deficient in humour or in a sort of discernment,
and just at present he was indulging
in certain speculations concerning Mrs. Ross
and Lord Ralston, who were, as usual, together,
and to all appearance engaged in
earnest conversation.

Lord Ralston  a man with light hair growing
rather scanty, a beard of the same colour,
pale-blue eyes, and a large forehead  was
discoursing, his head thrown back and his
eyes, through glasses, surveying a distant
gravel walk with grave interest ; whilst Patricia,
her work dropped on her knee  some
people said that Mrs. Ross's work was only' produced
in order that it might be dropped when
it should become advisable that her attention
should grow absorbed  was listening eagerly,



her pretty hazel eyes fixed upon his face in
rapt attention.

He's at it again, I'll take my oath,' said
Sir Cyril. ' I am sure I caught the words,
' when the party to which I have the honour
of belonging"  How can Mrs. Ross stand it ?
and how mil she be able to stand it in the
future? You don't understand? Oh yes,
Eve, you do  don't perjure yourself. You
know what it all means. Do you think his
lordship will make a satisfactory brother-in-law?'


You think she would marry him ?' asked
Eve.

The idea was new to her, in spite of
Courtney's words ; and glancing across at
Lord Ealston, and placing him in swift
mental comparison by the side of the man
whom, only six months ago, Patricia was
to have married, a faint astonishment shot
through her.

Oh, I could not presume to say answered
Cyril, propping his chin on his hand, and
taking a deliberate and exhaustive survey of
the couple. ' But I think it looks like it
don't you ? I feel certain he means it, though
he does appear to select his topics from the
chances of the Ministry. I am ashamed to
confess that, feeling a real curiosity as to how
Salton would make love, I have taken some
pains to ascertain.'

Do you think she would be happy?' asked
Eve, still occupied with the possibility he had
suggested, and with that comparison before
her mind. Cyril shrugged his shoulders.

Happiness is relative,' he observed. ' Yes,
I think Mrs. Eoss has a fair chance of it,
whatever happens.'

You mean ' said Eve.

That she has the advantage of presenting
only one vulnerable point for the attacks of
fate, whereas most of us have one or two other

breaches in our walls  the fewer the better.
I would ive the world to care for nothing
but myself.* There was an unmistakable ring
of sincerity in his voice  indeed, the candour of
his selfishness always disarmed criticism ; it
was the frank and fretful impatience of a child
when he discovers that life will not continue
the indulgence of his early years. 'As it is,'
he went on, ' I only care for myself most, and
that is the worst policy of all ; since one is
certain to be cheated in the game. Next
to absolute selfishness, a great and self-sacrificing
love for other people would be
most repaying.*

Even in that case,' said Eve, half smiling
even in that case you would not escape
suffering. It is only that then it would beat
second-hand  through them.*

He laughed and shook his head.

I would close with the exchange,* he said.
I feel my brother's toothache, it is true ; but

set there is a difference  the instrument does
not touch the nerve ; it is not, to use a
Scriptural illustration, the angel's touch which
shrinks the sinew, and from which we  some
of us  go halting all our lives

There was a silence; Eve did not answer
at once. She was wondering whether Cyril's
words were true; half wishing, as if with
some dim prevision of evil, that she could
believe them to be so, could believe that the
sufferings of others can find no vivid or
personal realization. Were such the case  so
she felt half unconsciously  were she safe
from the blows which might reach her
through others, she would have no overwhelming
fears of what life might do to her.
Cyril was watching her, guessing in part her
thoughts.

Believe me,' he said, ' sympathy bears the
same relation to suffering as the echo to the
reality. It is cant to call it anything else.'

Yet you say,' she observed rather wistfully,
' that most of us have vulnerable points
outside ourselves.'

He did not attempt to defend the consistency
of his argument.

So much the worse for us,' he said ; ' let
us at all events make them as few as possible
taking Mrs. Eoss for an example. Ah,
there she comes,' as Patricia, whose conversation
with Lord Ralston had come to an end
a few minutes earlier on his lordships discovering
that he had important letters to
despatch by the evening post, detached herself
from a group at a little distance and crossed
the lawn to where her sister and Sir Cyril
were sitting. ' We were just speaking of you,'
he added politely. ' I was urging your sister
to take example by you in the management
of life.'

Patricia glanced keenly at him, detecting
an undercurrent of irony in his words.

You will never persuade her to do that,*
she observed ; but she did not pursue the
subject. ' Great excitement prevails she
added, as she sat down by her sister. * Miss
Cunningham,' alluding to a guest who had
arrived the evening before, ' Miss Cunningham
has spoken.'

You don't say so !' returned Cyril, with
the interest the subject seemed to demand.
Who insulted her ? Nothing else could
have induced her to forget herself so far. I
had made up my mind to try it myself if my
mother insisted upon my taking her in to
dinner again.'

You are wrong,' observed Patricia, * and
ungrateful too. Her remark was quite spontaneous,
and bore reference to yourself. After
long cogitation upon the manner in which
you have employed this afternoon,' with a
malicious glance at her sister, who, however,
obstinately declined to meet it, ' she observed

that she always felt sorry for a young man
who had no profession.'

Does she ?' replied Sir Cyril. ' Nov I
call that really kind, and I retract my former
remark. I like people to take an interest in
me, and somehow they never do. I suppose
I am too well conducted to be interesting. I
suppose she did not mention what profession
she would advise me to adopt ?'

 She did not replied Mrs. Ross. ' Perhaps,
however, if you were to ask her  you see she
is disengaged at present.'

not just now, I think,' said Sir Cyril
hastily. ' It will be invaluable as furnishing
us with a topic of conversation hereafter, and
should be kept carefully in reserve. Also the
lawn is still too hot to cross; it was very
courageous of you to brave it.'

Half an hour later, when Lady Courtney
sent to summon Eve to drive with her, the
three were still together, and Cyril rose and

walked with her to the house. When he had
put her into the carriage with his mother, he
still stood talking for a few minutes with his
hand on the door, until the latter dismissed
him.

I wish I could come too,' he observed
discontentedly. ' Driving is the only rational
occupation in this weather ; but as it is '

You must stay and attend to your guests,
my dear,' said his mother. ' Yes, it is quite
necessary. Drive on, Benham. He looks ill
to-day, does he not ?' she added, turning to
Eve as he moved reluctantly away ; * I wish
he was stronger.'

The girl's thoughts had wandered, and she
made no reply, though Lady Courtney was
looking at her rather wistfully. A few
minutes later they were driving through the
steep Surrey lanes, the hedges nearly meeting
over their heads, whilst Lady Courtney talked
on steadily in the gentle monotonous way to

which Eve was accustomed, and which to her
never grew tedious, of reminiscences of her
youth  Lady Courtney had been a famous
beauty in her day, and treasured the recollections
of her early triumphs with a naive
and pleasant childlike vanity  of Cyril and
his boyhood, and of her husband, dead so
long that she could dwell upon his memory
\dth no sentiment more painful than a tender
regret.

Both he and Lady Courtney's father had
been high in the diplomatic service, and
having: lived much at foreign courts in former
days, she had many tales, innocent scandals,
pathetic comedies, to narrate, to which Eve
was wont to listen with sentiments somewhat
similar to those inspired by the portraits of
Sir Joshua's powdered ladies and gaily attired
noblemen. It was not exciting conversation,
but soothing and refreshing, like the constant
rippling murmur of a brook ; and the girl

liked it, though her attention still wandered
from time to time.

Suddenly, however, she started slightly.
Coming towards them, in a rough grey ,
with his dogs at his heels, and a
cigar in his mouth, was Gilbert Yerschoyle.

In another moment they had passed him.
The lane was so narrow that he had almost
had to stand on one side to allow the large
carriage to go by; he had been so near that
by reaching out her hand  he was on her side
of the carriage  Eve could have touched him ;
but he had made no sign of recognition, had
given her no opportunity of making any. He
had not once lifted his eyes as, taking his
cigar out of his mouth, he had walked straight
past.

The colour which had rushed to her face
when she first recognised him, faded rapidly
away. She knew he had seen her  he could
scarcely, indeed, have failed to do so ; and had



it not been thus, the care which he had taken
to avoid glancing towards the carriage would
have told her as much. She understood what
his manner meant; it was no studied and intentional
insult, this time at least  of that she
acquitted him ; neither could it be, now, the
expectation that she would desire to ignore
their acquaintance  she would not believe
that he could so far misjudge her. Xo, she
understood it ; it was his tacit but deliberate
recognition of the fact that it was best for her
that they should meet as strangers, since
chance had thus once more brought them face
to face, and as such he had meant her to
understand it. A sense of shame laid hold of
her, as if it had been her fault, as if she had
disowned him ; and beneath it a sharp, painful
realization of what his position in truth must
be, since, in his eyes at least, the greatest
kindness he could show a woman was not to
own her acquaintance.

Lady Courtney's voice interrupted her reflections.
Her attention had been attracted
by the stranger, and she spoke with calm
interest.

What a handsome face, my dear  the man
we passed just now, I mean  did you notice
him ? I wonder who he can be. I thought
I knew all the gentlemen about here. He
must be paying a visit somewhere in the
neighbourhood.'

It was upon Eve's lips to answer by the
truth; but yet she hesitated, arrested by a
curious sense that in so doing she would be
in some-sort frustrating his intentions, and
acting contrary to his wishes. She remained
silent, and Lady Courtney went on placid*.

 I wonder who it can be  such a striking
face ! Did you not think so. Eve ?'

Yes,' said the girl. Her head was turned
away ; and, as they almost brushed the hedge,
she put out her hand and pulled down a spray



of wild roses that bung just above. Tbev
remained in ber hand, but a thorn caught and
tore it, and the delicate, fragile petals were
scattered over ber dress.

Benham, the coachman, who bad overheard
bis mistress's speculations, turned and addressed
ber with the familiarity of a servant
who bad been for twenty years in the family.

Were yon inquiring about the gentleman
who passed just now, my lady?' he asked.
That was young Mr. Verscboyle.'

He spoke with the air of a man imparting an
interesting piece of information, and was not
disappointed in Lady Courtney's reception
of it.

Mr. Yerschoyle  was it indeed, Benham ?'
Then in a lower voice : ' Do you bear, Eve ?
It was Mr. Yerschoyle  that poor young
fellow. Of course it was bis own fault, but it
is a melancholy story. You know it, of
course ?'

VOL. I. ,* 10

Eve bowed her head. The blood burnt in
her face ; but still that undefined sense of
loyalty to his will kept her silent.

I know it,' she said.

How many wasted lives there are,' moralized
Lady Courtney, with the mild passing
regret accorded to the unknown. ' It was his
own fault, of course ; but it is a wasted life.'

Waste is the law of life,' said Eve dreamily.
her sad eyes gazing away to the horizon.
When it ceases, it is because life has ceased
too.'

Lady Courtney made no answer, perhaps
she had not caught the girl's words  certainly
she had not understood them; perhaps Eve
herself did not quite understand her own
meaning. The elder woman sighed gently
before, dismissing Yerschoyle and his affairs
from her mind, she resumed the anecdote she
had been telling when she had interrupted
herself.

Where was I, my dear? Ah, I was telling
you, was I not, how Sir George answered the

Marquis de R ? He was the wittiest man

of his time, you know. I was standing by
and heard it. I was two-and-twenty then,
and only just married. Those were happy
old days '

So she talked on gently ; but though Eve
made the proper answers, she heard no more.
Her thoughts were occupied with a scene
nearer home, as, sitting with her eyes fixed on
the roses which lay on her knee, their leaves
drooping and their petals fallen, she recalled
the look on Yerschoyle's face.

102

'T was already nearly three weeks
since Gilbert Yerschojle had returned
to Sandmoor. To him it
seemed far more ; the days had appeared to
lengthen themselves out into weeks, the weeks
into months. He had already begun to ask
himself how it would be possible that he
should live his life out there  whether he
would be able to bear it.

He had, it is true, been accustomed to
solitude; but solitude in a town  a crowded
solitude with hurrying life and movement all
around  is so essentially different from an
isolated one that the former is scarcely

a preparation for the latter. It may be
true, as it has been said, that loneliness in a
crowd has an isolation about it with which
nothing else can compare; but on the other
hand, as has also been said, the hurrying life
of others somehow destroys or weakens the
sense of personal individuality, so that solitude
is less unbearable.

To Gilbert the very silence and stillness of
the country, to which he had been unaccustomed
for years, was oppressive  it was as
if life was hushed and, as it Avere, taking
breath; he disliked the large rooms after the
lodgings which he had been used to occupy :
there was no denying it, he disliked it all.
Even had his position been different, it is
possible that the life of a country gentleman
might not have been particularly congenial to
him ; *as it was, it promised to be intolerable.

And yet he was determined, honestly determined,
to throw himself into it. He had

come home intending to pass his days as his
fathers had done before him, and he meant
to persevere, with the dogged determination
which was part of his character  to persevere,
and, if possible, not allow himself to be
beaten. He saw the bailiff, and set himself
to learn the details of the business to which
he had not had the ordinary chance that
comes to most men of his class, of serving an
apprenticeship. He took an interest in the
stables, and resolved to hunt when the season
for doing so should come round, though he
smiled not altogether agreeably when he
thought of the then inevitable meeting: with
his neighbours, and the feelings with which
they might regard his appearance in the
field.

Distasteful and uncongenial as the whole
life was to him, there was, besides, one special
circumstance which rendered the atmosphere
even more oppressive than it might otherwise

have been, and this was the presence of
Dorothy and her governess. Whatever had
been the drawbacks of the life he had hitherto
led, it had at least possessed the advantage of
entire and absolute liberty; and the sense that
he formed one of a household, and that others
in some measure depended upon him, was
irksome to him in the extreme.

It is true that he saw but little of them.
His breakfast was served to him alone, long
after Miss Hare and her pupil had disposed of
theirs and were deep in the studies of the
day, and he never made his appearance at
luncheon; but still occasions would arise
which necessarily brought them into contact,
and to Gilbert those occasions were among
the most prominent of the lesser trials of his
life.

Miss Hare was a woman of between forty
and fifty, sharp - featured and light-haired.
She was highly educated, furnished with many

diplomas, and enjoyed a high sense of her
own dignity. To her, no less than to his
entire surroundings, Gilbert's history and
antecedents were well known, and upon her
acquaintance with them she had carefully
regulated her manners and behaviour with
regard to him. She prided herself upon
being a woman of the world, well versed in
its manners and customs, its severities and
indulgences. She had lived in ' good
families ' and mixed in good society ; and
she recognised the fact that it was no less
due to herself than to the guardian of her
pupil that she should treat him with uniform
civility and politeness, whilst never for one
moment forgetting his position, or failing to
remember that she  Miss Hare  the former
instructress of the present Lady Whetstone, of
the Ladies Robinson, and others of equally
noble birth and exalted station, was making a
sacrifice of no small importance in remaining

on in a family the head of which was a man
disgraced in the eyes of the world and of
society.

She had even seriously considered within
herself whether it might not be her wisest
course to relinquish the charge of Dorothy's
education upon her father's death. and the
changes therefrom ensuing, her doubts and
scruples having been materially increased by
Gilbert's decision to live at Sandmoor, and
the subsequent change in the household. All
things considered, however, she had decided
upon remaining. She had been with Dorothy
some three or four years ; was in some degree
attached to the girl, who had indeed responded
admirably to the care and training she had
bestowed upon her ; and she told herself 
taking somewhat the same view as Lady
Courtney of Gilbert's probable influence upon
his sister  that it was now more than ever
important that she should remain to watch

over her. She was also well paid, and comfortably
situated, and  as is usual with us all 
the lower and unacknowledged motives were
not without their effect in deciding her to
allow the higher to determine her course.
So she remained on at Sandmoor.

Gilbert, for his part, had from the first
detested the woman. The estimable qualities
which she doubtless possessed were not such
as had much value in his eyes, and she was
hopelessly deficient in all those which he
looked upon as most essential. She had
never had any pretensions to good looks,
and years had not improved the sharp and
meagre character of her face; her voice was
metallic, her manners precise, and to crown
all she prided herself upon her powers of
conversation. On the occasions upon which
they met, Yerschoyle was not permitted to
confine himself to the commonplaces suggested
by the weather, the garden, the horses.

Subjects such as these were beneath the range
of Miss Hare's intellect, although under the
circumstances there was a certain difficulty in
supplying their places with others. Half
amused, half provoked, Gilbert was conscious
that his antecedents were always before his
sister s governess, and governed and directed
her choice of topics.

In Avhat might have been supposed to
furnish at least one subject in common  little
Dorothy, that is  her brother had never
attempted to assume the slightest interest.
He rather disliked the child, although he
intended to do his duty by her. She had
been placed in Miss Hare's charge by her
father, who presumably had had his own
reasons  occult though they appeared  for
the selection; and there for the time the
matter ended, so far as Gilbert was concerned.


Dorothy, on the contrary, had, for her part,

begun to take a certain interest in her brother,
traceable, it may be, to the fact that he took
absolutely none in her  such neglect being a
new experience to Miss Verschoyle, who in
her father's lifetime had been, and considered
herself, a somewhat important personage. It
is also possible that another circumstance was
not without its influence even upon a mind
so well balanced as Dorothy's.

'Don't you think Gilbert is handsome?'
she asked her governess one day, pausing to
put the question in the middle of grappling
with a problem of Euclid.

Miss Hare looked up from her knitting, surprise
and a certain disapproval visible in her
countenance.

'Your brother?' she asked. 'Really,
Dorothy, I have never considered the question.'

'Haven't you?' returned Miss Yerschoyle,
with composure. ' Well, now that you do,
don't you think him good-looking?'

I believe he Avould be considered so,' said
Miss Hare, with caution. ' Had you not better
continue voir v.'ork, niv dear?'

Dorothy did so, but with less application
than was usual with her. She had taken to
reflecting upon her ill-conditioned brother of
late, and perhaps feeling vaguely aggrieved at
his entire indifference to herself

Miss Hare, for her part, had she answered
the child's question with frankness, would have
said that Gilbert looked exactly what might
have been expected. He was good-looking,
no doubt, but it was the face of a man who
had lived every day of his life, and, as Miss
Hare Avould have probably added, had not
lived it well. Perhaps she was not entirely

Gilbert had had one visitor since his arrival
at home. Whatever view others might take
as to their own course of action, the Rev.

Jonathan Erskine (called by his intimates
Johnny) had felt it no part of the duty of the
vicar of the parish to turn his back upon any
sinner, of however black a dye, who chose to
take up his abode in it. He might be sorry
that he was there, or wish that he had kept
away ; but being there and being his
parishioner, it was clearly not for him to hang
back from the acquaintance. Mr. Erskine
was, as has been said, a cheery, honest little
fellow, who had taken to the Church as he
would probably have taken to the army or to
doctoring, or to an} other profession that had
been presented to him from his boyhood
upwards as his future career ; and having done
so, he was determined to do his duty by it
in much the same spirit as he would have
done it by any other. He was not, it was
true, a particularly spiritual man, nor had he
any exalted ideas of the sacerdotal office or of
Ms own dignity; but he was a parson, and

was neither ashamed of his profession nor inclined
to shirk its duties. He did not take
any specially large or wide views on the subject.
He would have said, had he been asked,
that he was put into that particular parish to
try and make the souls of its inhabitants
better, their bodies more comfortable, than
they would otherwise have been; and if he
was not particularly sanguine of success in
either department, if poverty, destitution, and
want still seemed to him to exist in much the
same proportion as when he came to the
parish, and if there was no very perceptible
improvement in its spiritual condition, he still
stood manfully to his guns, doing his best and
not too much cast down by his failures.

He preached short and cheerful sermons,
from which the villagers, of which his congregation
was mainly composed, went away
feeling more kindly towards man and more
grateful towards God, even though they compared

the new parson, sometimes not altogether
favom-abh', with their late vicar.

 Lor, he ain't nothing like the Rev.
Hadley, he ain't said an old woman once,
as she hobbled away after one of his short
discourses. ' The old vicar, he was worth
putting one's bonnet on and coming for to
hear. He had something to say, and took
his time about it, he did ; but this here young
chap, he's up and down again before you can
turn round.' Mr. Erskine, in fact, for all his
kind cheery ways, was to a certain extent
a come-down for the parish.

When he had come to call at Sandmoor he
had found Gilbert, as usual, alone in the great
library, and the look of the place had struck a
chill to his kindly heart. He had done his
best to be friendly, and though Gilbert had at
first not been particularly prompt to respond
to what he was disposed not altogether
wrongly to regard as professional cordiality.

he thawed by degrees under the influence of
Erskine's o'ood-humour.

A nice little chap, though he is a parson
had been his mental verdict ; and by the time
his visitor rose to take leave he was almost
cordial, accompanying him to the door, where
his own horse was standing, having just been
brought round.

'Do you care about horses?' he asked, in
answer to some comment of his guest's. ' Do
you ride?'

Mr. Erskine's boyish face fell slightly.

Not now,' he said. ' I don't keep a
horse.'

Ah,' said Verschoyle, ' I dare say you
have not much time on your hands ; but if
you ever feel so inclined, I hope you will
make use ol mine. They are quite at your
service. '

Thanks,' said the other, hesitating. * It is
true  I have not much time. I '

VOL. I. 11

He had an instinctive sense that to call
upon the black sheep was one thing ; to
accept a favour from him quite another. Perhaps
Yerschoyle suspected what was passing
in his mind; at any rate he did not press his
offer.

Just as you please he said rather shortly,
looking not at him, but at the horse upon
whose neck he had laid his hand.

Erskine glanced at him and took his part.

But I shall be glad of a mount sometimes,'
he said, as if finishing his former sentence.
 It would be great pleasure to me to ride
again.'

Gilbert's brow cleared.
Well, send round any day you like,' he
said.  Are you walking home now?'

Not home. I am not at home just now.
I am staying for ten days at Mace  Sir Cyril
Courtney's, you know.'

He had spoken without thought, and

coloured violently as he finished. He had
hitherto carefully avoided any mention of the
neighbours, and he glanced apprehensively at
Yerschoyle as Sir Cyril's name escaped him
with whose views concerning his present host
he was well acquainted.

Gilbert, however, did not notice his confusion.
He was thinking of the afternoon,
three days ago, when he had driven Eve Carrington
to Mace  remembering her as he had
seen her last, standing in the light of the
setting sun, with her fair face turned towards
him, and the hand he had not taken
held out.

At Mace, are you ?' he said absently. ' You
will have a hot walk, but it is cooler than it
was. Good-bye.'

He turned back again into the library,
forgetting the horse that stood waiting at the
door. He had liked his guest, and his visit
had broken the dreary monotony of the da' ;

112

but he was not thinking of him as he stood
looking absently out of the window.

Involuntarily and uncalled for, some words
had sprung to his memory which  though he
was not a reader of poetry in a general way 
he had met with long ago :

If Maud was all that she seemed,
And her smile was all that I dreamed,
Then life were not so bitter,
But a smile might make it sweet.'

If ?  Gilbert Yerschoyle's reflections generally
ended with a note of interrogation. He
roused himself, and went out.

imuA

I, jJJiMli:

DAY or two after Mr. Erskine's
visit, Gilbert was passing through
the hall on the way to the door,
where the dogcart was waiting, when he met
Dorothy wandering about with a somewhat
disconsolate appearance. Contrary to his
custom, he stopped and addressed her.

'What, idle, Dorothy!' he said. 'What
has become of your studies ? Has Miss Hare's
vigilance relaxed ? I thought you were always
in the schoolroom at this hour.'

'So I am  from four to six, generally,'
answered the child listlessly. 'But Miss
Hare has a headache to-day.'

Why don t you go out then ?' said Gilbert.
I should take advantage of her indisposition
however much we may regret it, and it is a
beautiful afternoon.'

She won't let me go out alone,' said
Dorothy, glancing rather Wistfully through
the open door at the sunshine outside. ' At
least not unless I take Briggs '  her maid 
 and that is dull.'

Gilbert paused, good-nature and reluctance
to be bored struggling within him. The first
conquered.

Would you like to come with me?' he
asked. ' I will take you for a drive if you
like.'

In the dogcart ?' Dorothy brightened
visibly, but hesitated. * I should like it ; but
I don't know whether Miss Hare '

Gilbert interrupted her with the shadow of
a smile.

I don't think we need trouble Miss Hare,'

lie said. * Did you not say she had a headache
?  it would be a pity to disturb her.
You can come if you like.*

Carelessly as he spoke, for the first time
there was a slight assumption of authority in
his tone, and Dorothy's shrewd little mind
noticed and half resented it, even whilst she
longed to avail herself of his offer. Perhaps,
too, she, like Mr. Erskine, felt doubtful as to
accepting a favour at his hands. If so, however,
her hesitation did not last. The temptation
was too strong ; the sun outside, the dogcart
and the great black horse together overpowered
her scruples, and for once Dorothy's conscience
allowed itself to be lulled to sleep.

After all, it is Gilbert who is my guardian,'
said the youthful casuist to herself, as she ran
upstairs to get ready, passing the door of the
room in which Miss Hare was lying down
with suspicious speed and caution.

Gilbert, for his part, had already repented

of the impulse of good-nature to which he had
yielded. As he drove along by his sister's
side he felt not only, as he had anticipated,
bored, but even somewhat embarrassed. He
knew nothing of children  if, indeed, he had
done so, his acquaintance with them would have
been of little assistance to him, for Dorothy
was most childlike  and he was completely
Sit a loss how to make conversation.

'Do you like living in the country?' he
asked, when the topic of the weather had been
exhausted  it had afforded so little variety of
late that it presented a particularly barren
field for remark. ' Don't you find it dull?'

Perhaps he had a lingering hope that
Dorothy's answer might furnish him with a
plausible pretext for sending her  with or
without Miss Hare  to live in a more exciting'
locality. If so, however, he was disappointed.


[Into, I don't find it dull,' said Dorothy,

surprised at the question. ' I have always
lived here, }'0u know.'

'Ah, no doubt that makes a difference,'
allowed Yerschoyle. ' And you wouldn't
like a school better, where you would have
other children  other girls, I mean,' correcting
himself hastily  ' as companions ?'

Xot at all,' said Miss Yerschoyle, negativing
the suggestion with prompt decision. Her
suspicions were aroused, and she was at once
on the defensive. ' Besides, only second-class
girls are sent to school.'

Is that so?' said Gilbert carelessly, but
with a shade of sarcasm his sister did not
detect. ' Then of course it would be out of
the question. I know so little of these
matters. I only thought it seemed a dull

life for you here; but if you like it ' He

shrugged his shoulders.

I never found it dull till  till '

Dorothy broke off.

Till my father's death  or till my return ?'
Gilbert smiled, partly divining her meaning,
and more sure of it as he saw the slight confusion
of her look. ' I suppose it has made a
change.'

Dorothy sighed, but made no direct
answer.

I used to go to parties,' she said regretfully.
' Lawn-tennis and garden-parties. Of
course I was not grown up, but papa didn't
mind. Sometimes he used to take me himself,
and sometimes  to the Courtneyss and
people we knew well  I used to go alone.
It was nice finished Dorothy, her tongue
unloosed by the remembrance of past delights.


Poor Dorothy !' observed her brother, with
careless sympathy. ' Well, you can go to
parties still, can't you? or have there been
none lately .f'

She looked up with eagerness, whilst

yet some unusual embarrassment made itself
apparent in her manner.

Lady Courtney has one this week she
said quickly ; ' but '

She has not invited you?' asked her
brother nth a smile. ' That was unkind.'

It is not that,' said the girl, hesitating
again. * She did say she hoped I would
come ; but Miss Hare did not know  she was
not sure  whether you would wish me to
go.'

'I!' Yerschoyle raised his eyebrows.
MVhat possible objection could I have?' he
asked. ' You say your father allowed you to
go, and  is it because you are in mourning ?'
he said, as a possible solution of the problem
struck him.

 No  not that,' said the girl. ' It is not a
large party  only a few people, or Lady
Courtney would not have asked me ;
but '

Well, what is it ?' Gilbert spoke rather
impatiently as she paused again. ' What possible
reason could I have to object?' he added
peremptorily.

At last it came out.

It was because you had not been asked. 

Dorothy spoke low, and flushed up to
the roots of her pale hair. She Alas in
ordinary matters a cool and composed little
person ; but even she felt she was trenching
upon a delicate subject.

Gilbert laughed shortly.

Pray don't hesitate on that account he
said. ' It would be hard indeed if you were
to suffer for my iniquities.'

He touched the horse rather sharply, and
when he spoke again it was on a different
subject.

The day was cloudless; but a slight breeze
was blowing on the high ground, and it was
not so overpoweringly hot as it had been of

late. They had driven some miles, and had
gained the top of a gorse covered eminence
which commanded the show view of the
neighbourhood. There had been silence between
them for some time, dien Dorothy
made an exclamation.

See, Gilbert ! there is the Mace carriage
waiting. They must have got out to see the
view. Ah, there is Lady Courtney  do you
see ?  at the edge of the hill, and some people
with her. May I gen down and ask her what
day it is to be  her party, I mean ? I can't
remember whether it is tomorrow.'

Gilbert assented and pulled up his horse,
ashamed of his first impulse, which had been
to refuse. The child clambered down and ran
ois across the heath and gorse to where bonnets
and parasols appeared on the brow of the hill.

Yerschoyle sat holding the fidgety horse,
without turning his head in the direction in
which she had disappeared. He did not see

that a figure had detached itself from the group
for which Dorothy was making, and was crossing
the heath towards the Courtney carriage,
which stood waiting a few yards from the place
where the dogcart was drawn up. Something
had gone wrong with the harness, and he had
got down to set it right, when at the sound of
steps approaching along the path by which his
sister had disappeared, he spoke without turning
or looking round.

'Wait a minute,' he said; ' I will help you
w directly ;' then, receiving no answer, he
turned quickly, with a sudden suspicion that
it had not been Dorothy whom he had
addressed, to see Eve Warrington standing
before him.

She had come along the narrow path between
the high bushes of yellow gorse, and
now stood in apparent hesitation whether
to greet him or to pass on without speaking.
She had not forgotten the evenings when he

had refused to recognise her. Now, however,
he started and lifted his hat as he spoke in
hasty apology.

Miss Carrington !' he said, ' I beg your
pardon ; I was waiting for my sister, and
hearing your footsteps I thought it was she.'

Yes,' said Eve vaguely. ' She is with
Lady Courtney, I think. I met her. I came
Lady Courtney wanted her parasol.'

Ah yes  the sun is still hot, is it not ?'
Gilbert glanced towards the carriage, and then
bent once more over the harness, as if to conclude
the interview. Eve paused before, with
a sudden impulse, she spoke again.

Mr. Yerschoyle,' she said, with a slight
tremor in her voice  ' Mr. Verschoyle, why
did you not recognise me when we met?'

He lifted his head and looked steadily at
her. A faint flush had risen to her face, lier
bare hands were locked nervously together,
but her eyes met his.

When ?' he asked.

On Wednesday. You saw me  I know it
when I was driving with Lady Courtney.'

For a moment he hesitated ; but if he
had meant to deny the charge, he changed his
mind. *

I should have thought that question
scarcely needed an answer,' he replied
slowly. He was grave, perhaps a little cold,
but there was nothing offensive in his
manner.

And you mean I should not have asked
it ?' she said quickly. ' I did not mean to
annoy you ; but I could not bear that  that
you should think  I am sorry,' she finished
rather incoherently.

You have not annoyed me,' he said more
gently, now for the first time smiling. ' And
I will, since you wish it, promise to know you

for the future when ' he corrected himself

' should we meet again.'

He was looking full at her, as if taking
advantage of the opportunity to study her
face. As he did so, his own softened. Yet
after that one look he turned away.

Good-bye, Miss Carrington,' he said, gently
but decidedly. ' 1 do not suppose it is likely
that we shall often meet ; but I will not again
forget you.'

If there was a double meaning underlying
his words, lightly spoken as they were. Eve
did not stop to consider it. That on the surface
was plain enough. Neither did she pause to
consider the wisdom of her next Avoids  she,
indeed, had but little of the wisdom of the
children of this world. She saw in him, not
Gilbert Yerschoyle, almost a stranger, and
moreover a stranger of indifferent character,
in whose favour she had nothing to go upon
save her own groundless conjectures ; but a
man whom the world had chosen  as she
believed unjustly  to dishonour; a man to

VOL. I. 12

whom no welcoming word had been spoken,
no welcoming hand held out, and again she
spoke rashly, inconsiderately.

Will you bring your sister to see me 
when I am at home again ?'

She had forgotten Patricia for the time, and
all that would make his presence, at Xortons
in especial, inexpedient and undesirable. As
to any other unwisdom of her request, any
possible construction that he might put upon
her invitation, the idea did not so much as
cross her mind. Such suspicions were slow to
occur to her, and Gilbert Yerschoyle, with all
his faults, was not a man with whom it was easy
to associate the idea of an unworthy vanity.
She had not misjudged him. He read her meaning,
with the exception, perhaps, of her rash
confidence in his innocence, as clearly as if she
had put it into words. He smiled rather sadly.

You will bring your sister to see me ?'
she had said.

I think  not,' he answered. ' You will
not misunderstand me when I say that it will
be better not.'

It will not she answered. ' Do not refuse
me.'

He looked surprised at her persistence.

If I did not refuse you,' he said with a half-smile,
' one day you would be sorry that you had
asked me ; one day, perhaps, you would say 
not to me. I know  that I should Ive done
better if I had not taken you at your word.'

Long afterwards his words came back to
her; but now she put them away with a sort
of soft impatience.

That is my own affair,' she said.

He looked at her fixedly.

Zs' it your own affair?' he asked. 'Are
you sure that there is no one that has a right
to say that it is theirs ?'

She lifted her head gently yet proudly, and

looked him straight in the face.

12 2

Xo one,' she answered. ' Will you come?'

Since you wish it  yes,' he said at last.

Then good-bye.' She held out her firm,
Blight hand. This time he did not refuse it.

Good-bye.'

Another moment, and she was gone.

Have I kept you too long ?' asked Dorothy,
running up a few minutes later, her tongue
unloosened by excitement. ' Lady Courtney
was there, and some other ladies ; they are
sitting on the heath looking at the view. The
2Darty is tomorrow, so it was lucky I asked.
Some people are staying in the house. Miss
Carrington is there.'

Do you know her?' asked Gilbert carelessly.


I have seen her at Mace. Papa knew her
uncle  Mr. Carrington, who died  but it was
too far off to go and call often ; Xortons is
nine miles from us. She is often with the
Courtneyss. She was to have married the one

who died  Mr. Harry Courtney  long ago,
and now they say she will marry Sir Cyril
concluded Dorothy shrewdly.

Gilbert made no response, although he was
not inattentive to what she said, and the child
ran on in her sharp, worldly way.

It would be a very good arrangement,
so everybody sajs, and Lady Courtney would
be pleased, she is so fond of Miss Carrington.
Ah, there is Sir Cyril. He must be going to
meet them.'

 * * :?& *

Half an hour later the party on the heath
were still there, watching the sun sink lower
and lower and the lights change upon the
opposite hills. Sir Cyril and Lord Ralston
had walked over to join them, and they were
scattered about upon the heather.

I suppose that was Yerschoyle whom we
met just now driving with his sister,' observed
Cyril, when a pause had occurred in the conversation.

' I used to know him when we
were boys, though he must be four or eve
years older than I am, but I should not have
recognised him.'

' Yes  Dorothy ran across to speak to me,'
answered Lady Courtney. ' She said he was
with her.'

Patricia had started slightly as Yerschoyle's
name was introduced, and glanced rather apprehensively
at her sister  she never quite
knew what to expect of Eve ; but the girl was
silent. Lord Ralston, however, spoke.

Ah, the man we passed on the hill ?' he
said. ' AVhat an inconvenience it is for the
neighbourhood when that sort of thing
happens ! Something of the same kind, only
not so bad, took place in my own. A man
with one of the largest estates in the county
died, and some far-off cousin inherited  a
man whose father, I believe, was a retail
grocer. The son is respectable, as far as I

know ; but there is one of the largest houses
about practically closed. One had to leave
cards upon him, but it was impossible to do
more.'

At any rate we have the advantage of you
there,' observed Sir Cyril, laying his head
lazily back on the heather. ' It is not necessary
to leave cards upon Mr. Verschoyle.'

Eve moved uneasily. She had picked a
sprig of heather and stripped it of its
bells, which lay upon her palm in a purple
heap. She was struggling with a desire to
speak  to say that she was not ashamed to
know Gilbert Verschoyle, yet a feeling of
loyalty to her sister kept her silent. She
could not say anything before Lady Courtney,
or, worst of all, Lord Ealston, which might
lead to the discovery of the relations upon
which he had once stood to Patricia. Yet
she felt she could not remain there hearing him
discussed, and keeping silence.

'Will soli come a little way with me,
Cyril ?' she asked, rising as she spoke. * I
want to see if the white heather still grows in
that hollow away to the left.'

He sprang up gladly, and they walked
away together, whilst Lady Courtney looked
after them with satisfaction legible on her
face.

Eve was silent at first, and when she spoke
it was in a low hurried tone.

'I know Mr. Yerschoyle,' she said. She
had a dim sense that it was due to Cyril, her
Mend, that he should hear it. With him, at
least, Patricia's secret, even if he should guess
it, would be safe.

What do you mean ?' said her companion
sharply. ' You know him ?'

Yes,' she answered, speaking steadily now
that she had begun. 'I became acquainted
with him through  an accident.'

Cyril was thoroughly roused.

It Alas a most unfortunate one,' lie
answered, his face clouded with vexation.
AVhat was it ?'

I can't tell you. It involves  some one
else's affairs.'

Cyril asked no more; he probably knew
enough of Mrs. Ross to have a shrewd
suspicion as to whose affairs were likely to
be involved. He walked by Eve's side in
moody silence, his face over-clouded.

Cyril,' she said suddenly, ' do you mean
what you said just now ? do you mean that
one isolated act  a criminal one if you will 
should shut the doors of society on a man forever?'
She knew that to bring forward her
own conviction of Yerschoyle's innocence, in
absence of even his own denial of guilt,
would be worse than useless; but surely,
even from another point of view she might
plead his cause.

I do,' said Courtney doggedly. ' Society

has its duties, and one of them is to keep
cheats and scoundrels out of it.'

His temper was ruffled, and he spoke hotly,
angered at the very fact that, however blamelessly,
she had been drawn into an acquaintance,
slight as no doubt it was, with such a
man ; more angered that she should set herself
to plead his cause. Eve, for her part, gentle
and unresentful as she was, flushed with anger
at his tone.

Aise they kept out ?' she asked, with an
unusual touch of sarcasm. Across her mind,
little prone to thinking evil though it was,
had flashed the thought that in that society
to which Cyril had alluded some sinners, at
least, were permitted to go unreproved by
that very conventional code which protected
it so jealously from others.

What do you mean ?' he asked shortly.
If it is that there are certain offences that
society has agreed to pardon, whilst it

punishes others perhaps from a moral point
of view not more black, I do not wish to deny
it. I had not the framing of the laws of
society, and I am not bound to justify them.
They have been made, and it is my duty to
carry them out.'

'And you do not count Christian forgiveness
and charity a duty ?' she asked.

I do not,' said Sir Cyril, ' not, at least, in
the sense you mean. Forgiveness is for
personal wrongs. If I see fit to forgive an
injury done to myself, I have a right to do
so. I have no right to injure and insult
society at large by condoning a sin against it.'

Then you mean that there is no restoration
for sinners  on earth ?' she added under
her breath, looking over to the distant hills
with eyes out of which anger had already
died, banished by pain.

Of the kind you mean, none.' Cyril spoke
again with a touch of sternness. Eve made

no answer. Avoids, which she would not
quote, were floating dreamily through her
brain ; words which spoke of a possible
restoration and pardon  even for sinners.
But of Gilbert she spoke no more.

There is the white heather she said,
rousing herself. ' In the hollow, Cyril, do
you see ? Will sou get it for me T

Only when they were returning a few
minutes later to join the others did he recur
once more to the subject.

Don't think me too hard, Eve,' he said.
If I said more than I ought, it was because
I could not bear the idea of your having been
brought into any sort of contact with such a
man as Yerschoyle. Forgive me if I was
angry.'

ND you are sure you don't mind
being left alone ?'

Mrs. Eoss was speaking. It
was about a week since she and her sister, to
whom her question was addressed, had returned
from Mace, and the inquiry bore reference
to a certain invitation which had reached
Patricia that morning; and had, as she rightly
conceived, a distinct bearing upon the hopes
and expectations which had been raised in her
mind during her stay at Lady Courtney's. Her
intimacy with Lord Ralston had continued to
progress most satisfactorily ; but he was a
cautious man, who objected to anything which

bore the stamp or semblance of haste, and
nothing had escaped him in actual speech
which could be regarded or construed in the
light of a pledge. He was not a man to be
carried away by impulse, and when he had
made his farewell to Mrs. Ross, it was with
the gratifying consciousness that, whilst he
could look back upon ten days most agreeably
spent in her constant society, he had not
allowed himself to be compromised in the
slightest degree.

The same reflection, however, which had
consoled Lord Ralston when deprived of Mrs.
Ross's companionship, proved by no means
equally comforting to Patricia, and her spirits
had been proportionately raised by the unexpected
arrival that morning of a letter from
a sister of Lord Ralston's, with whom, she had
had, some years ago. a very slight acquaintanceship,
which neither party had cared to
develop into anything more intimate, but

from whom lie now received a cordial invitation
to pay her a visit in the country, with a
further intimation that her brother would he
probably staying with her at the time. It
was, as Mrs. Ross felt, a decided move on the
part of his lordship, and she hoped the best
from it.

It is true that Patricia wondered a little, in
the pauses of the chase, whether the prize was
worth the winning; but such doubts as arose
she disposed of promptly, telling herself also,
what was indubitably true, that should she not
now become Lady Ralston, the popular voice
would not ascribe it to reluctance on her part.
Xo, she had, so she told herself, gone too far
to recede; and having thus made uj) her mind,
she was determined to win the game, and to
enjoy her success.

Of Gilbert Yerschoyle, as having any possible
bearing upon her object or her future,
she had spoken but once, when Eve had introduced

his name. Even now Miss Carrington
could not always understand her sister. Perhaps
Patricia was right when she said that
Eve was slow of comprehension  that she
took twice the time of an ordinary person to
grasp an idea and make it her own. Certainly
she Alas not quick at doing so. She was what
her friends might have called single-minded,
and her enemies, had she possessed any,
one-sided; deficient, that is, in the acuteness of
perception which makes it easy to some to
enter into characters entirely different to themselves.
She had a mental difficulty in seeing
more than one side of a question, or more
than one aspect of a truth. She was coming
by degrees, slowly and laboriously, to a fairly
correct estimate of Patricia ; but yet from
time to time she was taken by surprise, and
paused, as it were, to readjust her ideas with
the aid of the fresh light new revelations
afforded. With all her gentleness she was

severe in her moral judgments  severe, that
is, as to the particular type of character
which seemed to her worthless, and to that
type she was slowly but surely discovering
that her sister's belonged. It was of
a kind which, shallow as it was, and easily
read by those who held the key to it, was just
such an one as presented most difficulties and
most problems to her sister. It would have
been easier for Eve, in spite of her own purity
and innocence, to believe that a soul held a
sin than that it held nothing; to believe that
the light gaiety of Patricia's heedless talk was
a veil for something that lay below than that it
was the simple expression of her nature  one
of those natures to which it is not difficult to
believe that Providence, whilst bestowing upon
it other gifts great and small, has denied a soul.

On the present occasion, when Patricia had
been expounding her plans and hopes with
careless and characteristic openness, there was

VOL. I. 13

a pause in the conversation whilst Eve
pondered.

And six months ago you were to have
married Mr. Yerschoyle,' she said musingly.

My dear Eve '  Mrs. Ross spoke with some
impatience  ' what an inconvenient memory
you have ! Do try to forget that unfortunate
episode.'

Have you forgotten it ?' asked the girl.

Except when you insist upon reminding
me of it, certainly,' said Mrs. Ross, laughing
lightly. ' Just now I am incapable of conjugating
the verb aimer in either the present
or the past. J'aimerai Lord Ralston as soon
as ever he asks me to do so; and under these
circumstances even you, my dear Eve, will
perceive that it is, to say the least, undesirable
to go back upon the past.'

Eve had said no more, and the discussion
had drifted away. This morning, as they sat
at breakfast, Mrs. Smythe's invitation naturally
supplied the topic of conversation.

You don t mind being left alone ? 1 feel
as if I was behaving badly in deserting you,
but as Mrs. Smythe's letter is so cordial it
seems a pity to refuse.'

Pray don't do so upon my account,' returned
Eve. ' I am used to being alone, and
I do not dislike it.'

Mrs. Ross laughed again, quite affronted
by her sister's candour.

I sometimes think,' she said, ' when I amin
your company, Eve, that I have never
heard unvarnished truth before, o doubt
other people would have felt as little regret at
my departure, but then they would have
thought it necessary to assume what they did
710 1 feel. Xo,' as the girl attempted an
apology, ' I knoAv you meant no offence, and
I am not the least hurt. To return to Mrs.
Smythe  I had quite forgotten I had met her
till Lord Ealston reminded me of it. She was
rather a dull woman. I imagine intellectual

132

brilliancy is not a characteristic of the family,'
remarked Mrs. Koss easily; 'but still, under
the circumstances, I think I may as well
accept her hospitality, do not you ?'

If you mean to marry her brother  yes,'
answered Eve slowly.

And that we may consider a settled fact,'
said Mrs. Koss rather impatiently. ' And I
mays leave Kit here ?'

Of course  if you like. You are not
taking him with you ?'

No, certainly not. For one thing, he is
not invited. I dare say they don't know
such a person exists. And, besides, a child
is always in the way.'

Eve looked at her meditatively.

You don't care for him,' she observed,
rather as an undisputable fact than as a
question.

Patricia did not deny it. In domestic life
at least her frankness counterbalanced many

of her demerits, and went far to disarm
criticism.

ISTo/ she said. 'I know it is a received
maxim  one of those I was speaking of the
other day  that mothers should invariably be
fond of their children, but it is no more
infallible than the rest. I dare say I should
have liked him if he had been different  a
pretty little girl, or even boy, whom it would
have paid to dress ; but Kit, from a baby in
arms, was always unsympathetic. I often
wonder why I should have had such an
unprepossessing child. He takes after his
father's family. All the Bosses have his
sandy hair and light eyes. And then he is
so much too sharp. I really believe,' ended
his mother with irritation, ' there is not a
thing which that child doesn't know, and he
is only seven years old.'

'Poor Kit!' observed Eve. She did not
herself, it is true, like her nephew, and would,

indeed, have been ready to endorse most of his
mother's criticisms; but, nevertheless, it seemed
to her a hard lot that the child should grow
up thus uncared for.

Oh, you needn't pity him,' said Mrs. Ross,
He gets all he wants.'

Except a little love.'

Which he can very well dispense with.
INFo, my dear Eve, believe me, neither Kit nor
his mother will make exorbitant demands in
that line.'

Eve did not continue the discussion, but it
recurred to her mind when, about ten days
later, on her return from seeing his mother off
to pay her visit to Lord Ralston's relations,
she encountered the child in the hall. She
paused and sat down on a couch, drawing
him to her.

Where were you this afternoon. Kit ?' she
asked. * Your mother was looking for you to
say good-bye.'

Was she ?' returned the boy indifFerently,
wriggling himself free from the arm she had
put round him, not presumably because he
was in haste to go elsewhere, but simply from
a natural love of independence. Eve made nc
effort to detain him, and having obtained hi*
liberty he appeared not unwilling to continue
the conversation from a safe distance. ' I was
looking at Joe's rabbits,' he observed. ' He's
got three.'

It was a pity you were out of the way,'
pursued Eve. ' Your mother is gone.'

I thought so,' returned Mrs. Ross's son,
with no semblance of regret. ' I wish Marie
was gone too. I wish Marie was dead !'

Do you ?' asked Eve, somewhat startled
by the energy of the aspiration. ' Why ?'
She had a suspicion that Kit did not meet
with overmuch kindness at the hands of his
nurse. But whatever were the facts, he was
too discreet to reveal them, only glancing at

his aunt with a knowing look in his light-blue
eyes.

She's no good he said. ' I msh she was
dead.'

Eve asked no more questions, and attempted
no remonstrance, only sighing as she rose and
went upstairs. She was too conscious of her
own lack of affection for the child to feel herself
entitled either to blame or to try to
improve him. Miss Carrington was no
believer in the good influence of kindness
dissociated from love ; and perhaps she was
right, though it is a doctrine that, universally
accepted, would be productive of some inconveniences
for the world, and would leave more
than one philanthropist with idle hands.

She forgot her nephew, however, without loss
of time as she mounted the stairs and went
to her room. She had just remembered, in
connection perhaps with Patricia's departure,
that it was already more than a fortnight

since her return from Mace, and that Gilbert
Yerschoyle had not fulfilled his promise of
visiting Norton. Perhaps he had repented
of having yielded, and did not mean to come.
She was sorry if it were so, and yet she was
content. She had done her best, had shown
him  she could not have done so more clearly
that with her, at least, the opinion of the
world and the verdict of society had no
weight, and she was content to let the matter
rest, as one with which she had no further
concern. Eve's was no restless, active spirit
of partisanship ; her temper of mind was the
direct opposite of those who conceive it to be
their mission to reform the world, or to set
right the abuses of society. In Gilbert's case
it was simply that an injustice, a wrong, had
been forced upon her notice, driven home to
her the more by her sister's conduct ; and pity
for the man and indignation for the wrong
done to him had joined hands to induce her  

it might be on an unwise impulse  to set
herself, in so far as it lay in her power to do
so, to rectify that injustice and repair that
wrong  feeling all the time how miserably
inadequate were the means which lay at her
disposal for the purpose. She had performed
her act of reparation ; but that being done, she
was content to let the matter rest. Xo sting
of mortified vanity that her advances had been
declined rankled within her; she had simply
done her part, and the matter was, as far as
she was concerned, closed and done with. She
had, with this reflection, dismissed the subject
from her mind, when Jones knocked at her door.

Mr. Yerschoyle, miss. He is in the
drawing-room.'

The announcement came in curious apt
response to her reflections, giving them, as it
were, another colourings was salad that
he had come. She knew now, what in her
charity she had not allowed to herself before,

tlicat it would have been churlish and discourteous
on his part had he, after all, rejected
her overtures ; yet, for the first time, she
was conscious of a doubt of their wisdom.
As she lingered in her room, not hastening
her movements as she divested herself of her
jacket and hat, there flashed across her mind
the recollection of their first meeting in the
very room in Which he was now awaiting her,
of the question he had put to Patricia, and of
her answer. AVould not the remembrance, she
asked herself, of that day be with him now
even as it was With her, filling her with a
painful sense of shame, somewhat as if it had
been she herself who had dealt him the insult,
since it had been offered by her sister and in
her house? Had she had any right to insist
upon his exposing himself to the painful
associations connected with that scene? Her
hands trembled a little as she put them up and
smoothed the heavy hair on her forehead.

Yet, when a few minutes later she entered
the drawing-room, she betrayed no confusion
or shyness, and her manner was as quiet as
usual. If it had been otherwise, his greeting
was well calculated to set her at her ease. It
was that of an ordinary and not an intimate
acquaintance, and was perfectly free from
embarrassment.

 I should have given myself the pleasure
of calling before,' he said, ' but a variety
of causes combined to prevent me. Also I
did not know how soon you might be at
home.'

I have been back a fortnight,' she answered,
as she took his hand. ' I am glad to see you.
You have not brought your sister?'

Dorothy ? Xo. She was to receive a music
lesson this afternoon. Her education is being
conducted on the strictest principles, and it
is not often that I take courage to disturb
them.'

You must bring her another day,' said Eve
kindly. * It must be a solitary life for her,
poor child.'

She does not seem to object to it,' said
her brother carelessly. ' I hinted to her the
other day that it might be dull, but she
treated the idea with contempt; and if she
likes it '

He shrewd his shoulders as he changed
the subject, and the talk went on as it might
have done between comparative strangers who
were as yet ignorant of each other's tastes or
habits, and had, moreover, no mutual acquaintances
to discuss. If at first there was some
slight awkwardness due to the sense which
will make itself felt under such circumstances
the consciousness, namely, that there are
subjects to be avoided, ground which it would
be dangerous to break  it wore away quickly
before his conversancy with the world and
with general topics of conversation, and her

gentleness and grace. Perhaps, indeed, the
very absence of surface subjects of mutual
interest necessitated, or at least led to, the
discussion of ones more personal, which
would have naturally belonged to a longer
acquaintanceship or a greater degree of intimacy.
The preliminaries were, so to speak,
more difficult than what would follow. By
the time that half an hour had passed, Eve
felt that she knew him almost well.

How much you have seen !' she observed,
when he had been describing a scene he had
witnessed in Spain with the peculiar vividness
of description which was one of his gifts.

Xot more than most men of my age, 1
imagine,' he answered. ' There are different
sides of life, of course. I have seen a good
deal of the world, if you take that to mean
different places and countries  the outside
dart of it, in fact  but that is natural to a
man who has had no settled home for eleven

years of his life. There is another side of
Asiich most men have had more experience
than I. I know next to nothing: of what is
called English society, and I have not a single
friend or even intimate acquaintance in the
world. Such a confession is an adverse criticism
on the man who makes it, is it not T
he said, reading her face with a half smile.

Perhaps so,' she answered absently, as
she pictured to herself the life to which his
words pointed. He smiled at the unconscious
candour of her reply.

It is not so bad as it looks,' he said. ' I
have had, you know  disadvantages. Letting
alone others, my father disliked me, and my
stepmother detested rae. At the same time I
am bound to say that in my future career I
did my best to justify them.'

He was speaking with apparent ease and
with a touch of sarcasm, yet the impression
was conveyed to Eve's mind  she knew not

how  that he was forcing himself to trench
upon the subject which he would have
naturally avoided. Was it bravado, to prove
to himself that he did not fear it, or was
it the instinct which leads to pressure upon
a sensitive nerve ?

Eve was silent. How could she answer
him  she, a stranger, who had no right even
to offer him sympathy ? How could she tell
him that if his life had not been what it might
have been  and looking at his face, and listening'
to his careless clever talk, though there
had been no recurrence of the tone that had
been offensive in it during their tete-astute
drive, she had a growing conviction that it had
not  that part at least of the blame rested
with those who had branded him with a false
accusation, and sent him out to fight his
battle with life thus weighted and shackled?
There was a short silence, and then he moved
to go.

I may come again ?' he said as he stood
up ; adding with a smile, ' this tinie it is I
who ask. And yet I do not abandon my first
position that the day may come when you
will say that I should have done better to
have stayed away.'

Xo,' said the girl.

He had smiled as he spoke, but she was
perfectly grave.

Is that a promise?' he asked.

Yes  a promise,' she answered, as she drew
her hand gently away.

Five minutes later, when she passed again
through the hall. Kit was still there, playing
at marbles on the tiled floor. Moved by an
impulse, she stooped and kissed him, thinking of
another unloved childhood. How much of our
pity is made up of mingled motives ! Kit, for
his part, looked up with quick mistrust, doubting
whether the unusual demonstration of affection
might not be intended as the preface for

VOL. I. 14

some fresh demand upon his obedience. His
suspicions, however, were allayed as Eve
turned away, and he went back, feeling only
a slight natural surprise, to his interrupted
game.

CHAPTER XL

T was August, an August of cloudless
dewy mornings, when the
moors and lawns lay covered and
sparkling, for those who were up early enough
to see them, with gossamer, when the sun
shone on uninterruptedly all day from its
rising, veiled by the thin blue heat-mists of the
morning, to its going down in the purple and
gold which the stretches of heather and gorse
below seemed to reflect and intensify.

It was weather which makes all exertion,
whether physical* or mental, difficult, which
seems to invite to absolute idleness, inclining
us to select our lightest literature and our

142

coolest dresses, and to put oiF any fatiguing
duties, any serious thoughts or disquieting
reflections which may present themselves for
our consideration, to some more convenient
season. When Mature is doing her very best
to please us, and v-hen it is. moreover, certain,
at least under English skies, that she will
not continue her good offices long, it would
be churlish and ungrateful in us  so we are
apt half unconsciously to still any scruples of
conscience which may arise  not to profit to
the utmost by the gifts which she bestows
with a lavish if capricious hand, or to let a
restless spirit of speculation or inquiry or
foreboding put us out of harmony with her
serene tranquillity. She has laid her commands
upon us to sleep and take our rest, and
we obey, conscious that the season for waking:
and taking thought for the morrow is never far
distant, but willing for the time to forget it.
Afterwards, when the east wind has come

back, when rain has followed the sunshine,
when, in fact, summer is over, then it will be
time to reflect and to speculate  to consider,
it may be, that ' summer is past, the winter is
come, and we are not saved.' Such seasons
there are in the spiritual and moral as well as
in the natural world  times when a lull has
come, as it were, in life, and we accept almost
necessarily, sometimes unconsciously, sometimes
with gladness, a respite from all
troublesome or perplexing questions, and
allow ourselves to float unresisting on
Nature's surface, forgetting that the tide maybe
sweeping us away during our inaction, so
that when at last we rouse ourselves to take
up the oars once more, it is possible that we
may look round with startled eyes to find
ourselves between unfamiliar banks, and swept
along by a current of which we were altogether
unsuspecting. Thus, in some measure,
had it been with Eve Carrington.

It was already more than three weeks since
Mrs. Ross's departure, but she had as yet
shown no disposition to return. She had gone
on from Mrs. Smythe's to pay a second visit
in the neighbourhood, from whence she was
to go back to spend another week at the
house of Lord Ralston's sister. Her letters
were not abundant, nor when they arrived did
they convey much information; yet her sister
gathered from what she said that she was
fairly satisfied with her visit to Mrs. Smythe,
although perhaps a little impatient for the
final denouement of what she called, with a
touch of humour, her romance.

Affairs had in fact progressed favourably,
though his lordship still refused to be hurried.
As some one  presumably a friend  said of
him once, the good steed caution had, in his
case, fairly got the better of his master and
run away with him; and the same critic had
sagely added, that the course that animal

takes when he once gets his head is apt t6
lead to the land of nowhere. For the present,
however, Mrs. Koss had made up her mind to
wait the more patiently, as in the interim she
was in the enjoyment of an agreeable shooting-party,
of a kind decidedly more congenial to
her than those which were wont to meet under
the auspices of the well-meaning but ponderous
Mrs. Smythe.

She is a wife and a mother, my dear,'
Mrs. Koss wrote to Eve ; ' need I say more ?
I hope not, for there is absolutely nothing
more to be said.' In Mrs. Ross's mouth
there could scarcely have been severer condemnation.


The Courtneyss were also away, Sir Cyril
having gone with much reluctance to keep a
long-standing engagement in Scotland ; whilst
his mother, availing herself of the opportunity
of his absence to leave home likewise, was
paying a visit to a sister in Kent.

With Mace deserted, Eve was more solitary
than usual. Though she was, of course, more
or less acquainted with all the neighbours, she
had always been a person of few intimate friendships;
or perhaps it would be more accurate
to say, with the one exception of the Courtney
s, of none. Whilst her native gentleness
and courtesy prevented her being altogether
unpopular, people were accustomed to find an
intangible bar, which stood in the way of
liking growing into any sentiment more close
and familiar; and even those to whom she had
been known for the greater part of her life had
gradually relinquished the attempt to be intimate
with her. She was not consciously or
intentionally repellent, but there was something
in her habitual reserve, almost amounting
to coldness, which discouraged advances;
she had few friends, and no constant associates.


She did not miss them; but it might, perhaps,

have been better for her had the life
she led ]been a less lonely one. Solitude,
whether of the body or of the mind, and
whether self-chosen or enforced, has its dangers
as well as its advantages. In Eve, as has been
observed before, it had fostered a habit, curious
in a nature so devoid of arrogance or presumption,
of leaning, to a degree scarcely suspected
even by herself, upon her own judgment; and
she sometimes forgot that, whilst the tribunal
of conscience  whether competent or incompetent
 must be the court of final appeal for all
and in all cases, it is a moral loss Ashen its
causes are decided and its judgments given
without jury or counsel.

The three weeks that had gone by since Mrs.
Ross left, though gliding smoothly and uneventfully
past, had not been untaught with consequences
 consequences which set their mark
deeply on Eve Carrington's life.

It had not been many days before Gilbert

Yerschoyle had repeated his visit, bringing
this time, his sister with him ; and since then
it had come about  neither of them quite knew
how  that few days together elapsed without
bringing him over to Xortons. At first he
would come in only for a few minutes  in the
course of his ride, as he would explain with
somewhat suspicious care, to leave a book which
he had mentioned, or furnished with some
other like transparent pretext ; but by degrees
he forgot to make excuses for the frequency of
his visits, or Eve to expect them, and it came
to be almost a matter of course that every two
or three days should find him at Xortons,
usually in the late afternoons dien she was
most certain to be at home and alone, sitting
with Eve either in the cool shaded drawing-room
or loitering' too-ether in the warm stillness
of the August evenings, or sometimes
mounting the hill which rose sharply behind
the house to watch the sunset fi:om its summit.

Did Eve know Avhat she was doing ?

She told herself afterwards that she had not
that she had never thought of the possible
consequences of those summer days, believing
herself to have seen in him only a wronged
and insulted man for whom the very intensity'
of her compassion, coupled with her indignation
against the world which had so dealt with
him, had blinded her to any other feeling with
which she mio:ht be Stowing; to regard him.

It was not that he spoke much or often of
his past, or that he ever voluntarily laid claim
to her sympathy on behalf of it. As his intimacy
with her grew and deepened, the morbid
tendency he had at first evinced to refer to his
position disappeared. He had not indeed
forgotten it  rather the recollection of what it
was gave the key-note to his conduct  nor had
he forgotten the bearing it had and would ever
have upon his future, but for the present he
chose to put the thought away. The future

ALLEGIANCE.

lay in the shadow of the past, and he never
ignored it ; but he had, so to speak, mentally
rescued the present from the general darkness 
it was a Goshen in which he had taken a temporary
refuge ; acting, in so doing, with open
eyes. For whatever might be the case with
Eve, Verschoyle was not blind. He recognised
his danger, and, recognising, freely
accepted it, believing as he did that none was
involved to her. He had been told, and he
believed, that she was to marry Courtney  it
was another of the facts which belonged to the
future ; but even had it not been so, he would
still not have sought to link her life with his
own. This her influence, ranging itself
unconsciously against herself, had already
achieved, that whereas a month ago he would
not have hesitated to wrest whatever he might
from close-fisted life, life which had made him
an outlaw and a pariah, now, even had he conceived
it possible, he would have died sooner

than make her a sharer in his disgrace. Six
months ago he had concealed the very existence
of that disgrace from the woman he then
slightly and carelessly, loved ; but now the
unconscious influence of Eve's generous fliith,
her gentle yet fearless defiance of the world,
had already borne fruit, and had called forth a
corresponding unselfishness in him. He was
no longer at war with all mankind. And
Avhat was, as yet, best in himself sided with
the world against himself, and made  would
have made her had she been to be won  Eve
Carrington safe from any endeavour on his
part to win her. If she would not take care
of herself it would have been for him to take
care of her. But  the reflection came in half
bitterly, yet setting him free  such care was
unnecessary; she had another guardian, and
since she was to marry Sir Cyril, since the
risk was only his own, he had a right to run it.
And so it came that day after day found him at

Norton, every hour of intercourse deepening
the intimacy which had been of such
sudden growth, and which was fostered by
the peculiar circumstances of the case and
situation.

Miss Duke, Eve's companion, had returned a
few days after Mrs. Ross's departure, but she
had been since then, for the most part, confined
to her room by a tedious, though not dangerous,
attack of rheumatism, so that she was rarely at
hand to interrupt the tete-astute nature of their
intercourse. It is true she had at first expressed
some slight surprise at the frequency of the
young man's visits ; but she was a simpleminded
woman, accustomed to defer to her
ex-pupil in every respect, and entertaining an
absolute confidence in her judgment, not
altogether, so far at least as worldly wisdom
was concerned, justified. For the rest, she
was a dreamer, living in a world of literature
and theory and speculation, upon whom

gossip, even if it reached lier ears, made but
little impression; and Yerschoyle's history, if it
lead ever been known to her, had faded long-ago
from her memory.

On one point Gilbert proved obstinate.
It was when, their acquaintance having
already ripened into friendship, the girl had
expressed a desire that he should meet other
guests at her house. He had met her proposal
with a decided refusal, which, whilst it
did not surprise, disappointed and perplexed
her. It was, perhaps, natural that they should
take different views of the matter, regarding
as they did the connection between them
from such different standpoints : for whilst to
Eve it was the beginning of a friendship, to
Gilbert it was  he knew it  the brief opening
chapter, soon to be finished and done with,
of a passion. To her, looking at it as stretching
onwards through the coming years, it
seemed equally impossible and undesirable

to avoid or even to postpone for long a
meeting between him and those others, whom,
should such an alternative be forced upon her
as she hoped it would not  she was prepared
to sacrifice to him and to what in all
good faith she termed the sake of an injured
man. To Gilbert, looking at their intercourse
only hi the lio'ht of a brief interlude, to be
concluded, once for all, by her marriage with
Courtney, if not before, a different view of the
matter was natural.

No, let me come when you are alone,' he
said ; ' you have not found me backward todo
so '  he laughed. ' But trust me when
I tell you that what you wish would do meno
good, and you only harm.'

You will not ?' she said wistfully.

'I wish you would not ask me. I know
the world better than you do  thank God !
won't you let me judge ?'

I must,' she said, smiling. ' I cannot

compel you to come if you are bent upon
refusing.'

He hesitated, struggling with himself before
he answered.

I will come,' he said abruptly. ' You
shall not say that I refused you anything. I
will come.'

Xo, no !' she cried eagerly. ' You know
best  you may be right. At any rate, I
would not for worlds have you come if you
dislike it. It was only ' she broke off.

Only that you wanted to show you were
not ashamed of me,' he said softly. ' That
was it, was it not ? But you know you have
every reason to be so  have I not told you so,
always ?'

She made no answer. If she had, it would
have been to sny that she would sooner be
ashamed of her dead mother, of all that lie
had ever reverenced, ever held sacred or noble.
But Eve seldom expressed her thoughts, and

VOL. I. 15

when she spoke again it was on a different
subject.

They were sitting under a great beech
which formed one of an avenue stretching
from the house upon a gentle grassy slope.
At a little distance Dorothy, who had accompanied
her brother that day, was engaged in
conversation with Kit, with whom bliss
Verschoyle had, in spite of the inequality of
their ages, formed a friendship, fostered by
Kit's peculiar precocity and knowledge of the
world. Gilbert's colles, Ben, lay at his
master's feet, and above their heads the breeze
rustled the leaves, making a low whispering.

Their talk had wandered off to the first
occasion upon which they had met. It was,
perhaps, natural that hitherto all mention of
that day had, as if by mutual tacit consent,
been avoided. Patricia's name had never
passed their lips. It was not, indeed, that
she was forgotten. To Eve, at least, the

thought that Gilbert had loved her sister and
that she had failed him, was continually,
painfully present, though whether it was the
first circumstance or the second that caused
her so keen a regret she did not know, neither
did she ask herself Instinctively, however,
she had shunned all mention of her name.

To-day, however, for the first time, they
had spoken of that meeting. It was Gilbert
who had introduced the subject. He
was moody this afternoon, but Eve had by
this time learnt to expect him to be variable
and she noticed nothing amiss. There had
been a short silence, and when she spoke she
had stooped to stroke the dog's smooth head,
and her face was hidden.

I was sorry once,' she said, under her
breath, ' that I had asked you to come again.'

Were you ?' he asked, with a jar in his
voice. ' My words, then, were fulfilled after
all  even sooner than I expected.'

152

Your words ?' she lifted her head, glancing
at him inquiringly. ' What do you mean ?
Ah, I remember smiling. ' No, it was not
that. But I remembered afterwards  after I
had made you promise to come  about 
about my sister, and I thought  I was afraid
it might have been painful to you to come here
again, and that I was wrong to have pressed it.'

He coloured under his dark skin, but it was
from a sudden feeling of anger rather than
from any other cause. The recollection of his
brief connection with Mrs. Ross came, as it
had come whenever it had recurred to his
memory of late, as a jarring inharmonious
note, bringing with it a sharp sense of shame.
How impossible and remote, how unworthy,
what he had called, even then half contemptuously,
his love for her seemed now!
He hated that Eve should even know of it ;
more still did he resent the implication contained
in her words that Mrs. Ross could still

be anything to him ; the very idea seemed,
in his present unreasonable irritation, an
insult to them both  to Eve and to himself.
He made no immediate answer, resisting the
temptation to give vent to an angry retort,
and she spoke again, bending once more over
the doo;.

It was the first time I saw you,' she said.

It was not a favourable opportunity for
the commencement of an acquaintance. I fear,
from my own recollection of my conduct, that
it was not calculated to produce an altogether
agreeable impression.'

His tone was hard and jeering, but she was
preoccupied and did not notice it, as she went
on without considering the wisdom of her
words, or remembering the construction which
he might put upon them.

You had a right to be angry. I felt it
even then ; but  yes, you were angry.' She
remembered his face of governed passion, and

involuntarily shrank a little. ' If you should

ever look at me like that ' She broke

off with a certain tremor in her voice.

By this time Yerschoyle was at a white
heat of anger, utterly unreasonable though
it was. Mrs. Ross had certainly been right
when she called his temper defective. The
very reference to Patricia had, as has been
said, roused him to wrath; and, whilst every
word Eve had since uttered had added fuel to
the flame, her final involuntary putting of
herself in Patricia's place was more than he
could bear.

Excuse me, Miss Carrington,' he said ; ' it
would be impossible. You forget that ]airs.
Ross had first jilted and then lied to me. Of
the last I am sure you would be incapable;
and the first,' smoothly, ' by the nature of the
case, you will never be in a position to do.'

The scorching colour rushed to the girl's
face, up to her very broad. Never since her

jseconci meeting with him, on the occasion of
their drive to Mace, had she heard the tone in
Gilbert's voice, sneering, almost insulting,
which was there now. It was as if her very
reference, innocent as it had been, to the past
had sufficed to bring back his worst self, lately
exorcised. Lie was absolutely silent. A leaf,
dead before its time, fluttered slowly down
from a branch overhead and lay, like a golden
coin, on her white dress ; and the colles woke
and snapped lazily at a fly. Otherwise all was
still. Perhaps half a minute passed before
he spoke again.

Forgive me,' he said in a low bitter tone ;
I have so long been treated like a scoundrel
t':at I forget at times that I am a gentleman.'

Still she did not answer. He stooped and
took the hand which lay on the dog's black head.

Miss Carrington,' he urged ; ' Eve  forgive
me.'

Yes,' lie said. She did not raise her eyes

they were full of tears  but her lingers
closed for a moment on his. It was the misfortune
of the girl's life that all that was
wrong, all that was blameworthy in him she
laid not to his own account, but to that of the
world which had made him what he was,
feeling only at each token of it a deeper
compassion. Even his faults seemed to her to
cry for atonement instead of blame  wounds

that he had sustained in the battle of life.
# # m  *

Half an hour later they were in the hall
waiting till the dogcart should be brought
round in which Gilbert and his sister had
driven over. What had passed between them
out of doors had been left behind; yet its
shadow, as such shadows do, still lay upon
them both, giving them an unusual sense of
constraint as they talked of trivial and indifferent
matters.

Gilbert was leaning against the stone framework

of the window, the sun rustling his crisp
black hair as he stood, his face in shadow,
looking down at Eve, who sat absently
playing with a spray of heliotrope. He was
struofsiinof with a desire to ask her forgiveness
once more, to gain her assurance before he
went that all was as it had been between
them ; yet some instinct warned him that
such explanations were best avoided, such
words safest unsaid. He roused himself and
spoke.

Your favourite flower, is it not?' he said,
stooping to touch the blossom she held. ' The
second time we met  when I drove you to
Mace  I remember that you wore it.'

She did not answer at once. She was
thinking how much had passed since that
chance meeting, how long ago it seemed.

If I had not met you that day ' she

said slowly, and then paused.

You would certainly have been late for

dinner,' he finished with a half-laugh. * Was
that what you were going to say ?'

She was silent, vaguely hurt. Perhaps he
guessed it. He sighed impatiently, glancing
out of the window with something not unlike
a hope that the dogcart might be in sight. He
was not commonly in haste to go, but to-day
he was indistinctly conscious that he stood on
dangerous ground. The scene that had passed
between them had shaken their ordinary footing,
and he had a sense that the part he had
to play was becoming too difficult. Deliverance,
however, was not yet at hand, and he
turned to her again.

We Avill not begin to reckon up the gains
and the losses resulting from that meetings,' he
said gently, though his tone was still jesting.
' It would be too difficult a calculation,
and the gains, I fear, all on one side.'

Again there was a silence, upon which the
children's voices broke.

And this is Sir Reginald Warrington,' Kit
Alas announcing in the voice of a showman.
He was displaying the pictures, mostly of
defunct Warrington, which adorned the hall,
to Dorothy Yerschoyle, and had now paused
below a portrait of particularly unprepossessing
appearance : ' This is Sir Reginald Carrington.
He was a bad, wicked man, who
killed his own brother; and he would have
been killed himself, only he ran away before
they could catch him, and never came back no
more. '

Dorothy's response came in a lower key,
and the listeners did not catch the drift of it.
It was, however, apparently unsatisfactory,
for when Kit spoke again, his voice was raised
in angry assertion. His small hand was lifted,
and he was pointing up at the picture with a
view of emphasizing his remarks.

God never forgives people who do wrong,'
he declared domineering, as if in defence of

some attribute of the Deity which had been
profanely called in question.

It is wicked to say that returned
Dorothy, her quiet voice this time audible.
 It is wicked to say that. It is not true.
God does forgive people when they are sorry.
It is only bad men who don't.'

Well then, if He does forgive them He
punishes them all the same,' declared Kit
triumphantly, shifting his ground. ' I know
He does. That is wdiy Cain, and Sir Reginald
Carrington too,' again indicating the
]picture with a wave of his hand, ' had to go
about wandering all their lives. He may
forgive people, but He punishes them all the
same.'

Dorothy might perhaps have attempted a
further remonstrance, but without waiting fora
reply Kit dragged her off to inspect some
fresh object of interest ; feeling, perhaps, that
having, at least in his own opinion, made a

decided hit as well as shown a laudable knowledge
of Biblical history, it was as well to rest
upon his laurels and not to risk defeat by
unwisely continuing the discussion.

Eve had been lending a half-attention to
the argument, and she started when Gilbert
spoke.

Do you endorse Kit's theology, Miss
Carriniiton ? ' he asked. His tone was lio-ht
and not without a suspicion of a scoff ; yet
she felt that something lay below the surface
of his words, though what it was she did not
understand.

'Kit's theology?' she repeated questioningly.


Yes. Do you, too, hold the view  not
an uncommon one, by the way  that retribution
accompanies forgiveness ?'

She paused, her brows a little drawn
together as in thought, before she answered.

I do not know,' she said at last. ' God's

ways are different from ours. Perhaps His
punishments may be what we call rewards,
and our rewards His punishments. - I cannot
tell.'

Gilbert moved restlessly. At times the
very characteristics which attracted him in
Eve from their unlikeness to all that he had
known before, woke in him a sort of impatience,
so far was she removed from the world
in which he had ever lived and in which, even
now, he was most at home. It was with a
certain relief that he heard the wheels of the
dogcart grind the gravel outside, and turned
to take leave.

IX o'clock had just struck from the
church clock in the village below,
its echoes reaching faintly to the
top of the moor to which Eve, with her little
nephew, had climbed. A sort of attachment
had grown up between the two since they had
been left in solitude, and Kit was by degrees
allowing the distrust with which he regarded
mankind in general to lessen in her favour.
To believe every man to be guilty till he is
proved to be innocent,' had been the maxim
upon which his conduct had been for the most
part based ; and perhaps, considering the
nature of his experience, it was a not altogether

unwise one, though, like other people,
he was liable at times to carry it too far. It
was, indeed, only with the extremest caution
that he was relaxing his practice in his aunt's
favour. To-day, however, he had been pleased
with her. She had not only left Marie, to her
own indignation, behind, but had permitted
Kit's  in his nurse's eyes  undesirable ally,
Joe, the stable-boy, to carry up to the heath a
basket of fruit, with which the children were
at present regaling themselves at a little distance,
whilst, a book on her knee, she watched
the chanoino' colours of the skv and hills
from under the group of solitary fir-trees
Which crowned the summit.

There she was still sitting, when another
figure ascended the narrow pathway by which
they had mounted, and Gilbert Yerschoyle
greeted her. His first words savoured somewhat
of reproach.

You might have left word where you were

to be found,' he said. ' It is humiliating' to
be indebted to chance alone for the fact that
I did not have my nine miles' ride in vain.'

I did not expect you to-day,' she answered
apologetically.

Because it is so short a time since I Alas
at Xortons last ? I confess it, and I did not
mean to come when I started ; but the road
I took led near here, and now that I am
come I cannot regret it.'

Why should you?' she returned; ' you are
in time to see the sun go down.'

It was, in fact, already nearing the top of
the opposite hill and sending its straight level
rays across from the horizon, whilst behind
them the eastern sky was still steel-blue.
Gilbert had thrown himself down on the
heather at her side, and they sat witnessing
together wdiat he called the whole of the transformation
scene.

Which does the managers the utmost
VOL. I. 16

credit,' he observed approvingly. ' Xo, I
retract  I confess I was flippant and deserve
rebuke. '

Eve had lent him but a half attention. It
was only when, having at last reached their
climax, the colours began to fade and the vividness
of the effect to die away, that she spoke.

It has been the best day of all the year,'
she said, with a sigh.

The best ?' answered Yerschoyle, looking
not at the sky, but at the outline of her face
defined against it. ' Let me give you something,
then, in remembrance of it.'

He had taken out a small reliquary, carved
in gold, and laid it in her hand.

What ! a relic ?' she asked, smiling yet
surprised.

No, only its shrine. It is empty.'

A relic of faith,' she said softly, lifting it
and examining the elaborate tracery and delicate
work. ' The most pathetic of all.'

'And the best authenticated added Ver-school,
with a half laugh in which there was
yet no mockery. ' It is, however, a relic of
something' besides a lost faith. It has a
special history of its own.'

Tell me,' she said.

You would care to hear it ? It is nothing
much after all. It is only that it belongs to
one of the happiest days of my life. There
was nothing to make it so, or only physical
causes  perhaps after all the best.'

The best ?' repeated Eve inquiringly.

I think so. No reason that you can give
for being happy is so good that a hole cannot
be picked in it  therefore it is safest to
have none.'

Where was it ?' asked Eve, without heeding
his digression.

In Spain. The sun was shining as only
spanish suns can; I had just recovered from
a fever, and I was nineteen, abroad for the

vacation. Life, in spite of everything, was
pleasant. Pleasant! it is a poor word for
Avhat I felt it then. I spent the entire day
out of doors, lying in the sun, in absolute idleness
and absolute enjoyment, though I had
nothing to enjoy except life and youth.
There is nothing, after all, like those two
combined. What comes after may be better
or worse, but one has always a past ; it is the
special privilege of youth alone to have none.
Even if it were one to be proud of  I am not
speaking of my own  I fancy I would rather
have the sheet clean.'

With its possibilities untested ?' she said.
She waited, her eyes wandering over the
distant hills up which the mist was beginning
to creep, then spoke again. ' It is only death,'
she said, ' that limits the possibilities of life.'

Is that your creed ?' He spoke with a
touch of scepticism, yet he smiled. ' I think
I could name other limitations. Well, that day

has stood out ever since as Avhat our pious
friend the carver '  indicating the reliquary
with a laugh  ' would no doubt have called a
foretaste of Paradise. How irrational we are !'

And the reliquary ?* asked Eve.

It caught my eye as I was going home in
the evening, and I bought it. It was after allan
ominous purchase, was it not  an empty
shrine ?'

She Alas still looking at the little golden
case, touching it softly as if it had indeed held
something sacred.

And the next day ?' she asked.

Was like all the other days. You can't
imprison a rainbow. But I have always kept
the reliquary. I grew afterwards to have a
sort of superstition, and looked upon it in the
light of a pledge that happiness is after all
possible. You ' he paused  ' have redeemed
the pledge, so it is rightly and justly
yours.'

They were silent. His thoughts had already
quitted that distant day to occupy themselves
with matters nearer home ; but Eve was still
thinking of what he had told her, of the
picture he had drawn, and was remembering,
with the dull, aching pain the thought always
brought her, the wasted years that lay between
that day and this. When, however, she at
last spoke, it was upon a different subject.

You are always making me feel my ignorance,'
she said. ' You have seen so much, and
I have lived in such a narrow world. I '

He interrupted her.

'You are not going to tell me that, like
your namesake, you long for the fiuit of the
tree of knowledge ? You are unwise, believe
me. Besides, what is the use ? However
much we learn, we end as Ave began. First,
we know nothing and are content  like Ben,'
indicating the dog who lay beside him ; ' next,
one learns a little and is wretched because one

does not know more ; then, after that, one
learns, if one is wise, to be content again  like
nie  because one finds out that nothing can
be known.'

Is that wisdom ?' she said. * Then I am
not Avise. I want to know more.'

Take Life for a teacher, then '  he was still
only half in earnest  ' it will tell you all you
want to know  perhaps more,' he added in an
undertone.

You recommend it ? Tell me what it has
taught you.'

'God forbid!' he said hastily.

And yet you recommend it to me ?'

It is a wise teacher, and suits its lessons
to the pupil. Yours  will be in a different
language from mine.'

She looked at him wistfully, partly understanding
his meaning.

Is there no interpreter ?' she asked, with a
vague sense of pain.

None he answered  his lightness had
died away, leaving in its place a gravity not
untouched with bitterness  ' none, at least,
that we will invite to act as mediator.'

Again there was a short silence, and when
he spoke again he had recovered his usual
manner.

To return to the subject of your ignorance,'
he said. ' Life's pages are " fair and
unwritten still " ?'

She did not answer at once. When she did,
she looked not at him, but before her at the
fading sky.

No  not that she said. ' I have loved.'

A jealous pang shot through him, keen and
sharp, accustomed as he was by this time to
knowing that he loved her, and that his love
was vain. His voice, however, was only a
little smoother and colder as he replied.

Ah,' he said, ' I should not have asked the
question. I apologize.'

Why not ? I have wanted you to know.
We are friends.'

'Are we?' he e:ave a short laugh.

I thought so,' she answered in her soft
voice, hurt and perplexed by his tone and
manner.

Well, it is a word of many meanings,' he
answered, still half scoffing, ' so perhaps you
are right;' then more gently, as he caught the
troubled bewilderment of her face, ' In whichever
of them, however, you employ it, I am
proud that you should apply the term to me.
The world would be empty indeed without its
friendships.'

Yes,' she said dreamily, answering his
words; 'they are God's best gifts to His
creatures.'

Xo,' he said.

She turned, startled, to look at him. As
she did so, a deep, slow flush covered her face
and mounted to her brow, but she did not

ask him what he meant. After a moment he
Event on.

And now, will you tell me what it was
that you wished me to knowe

He did not doubt that she had been alluding
to Cyril Courtney, but certainty must
come sooner or later, perhaps the sooner the
better, and he was not a man to shrink from
it. Yet his hand, hidden in the heather, was
clenched as he waited for her answer.

It seems so long ago,* she said, * and yet
it changed everything, for I did love Harry
Courtney.'

'Harry Courtney!' he exclaimed involuntarily.
He had, till then, forgotten that long-past
story of which Dorothy had once given
him the outline, and he drew his breath with
a sharp sense of relief. At least it was not
to his living rival that the tender vibrations
of her voice belonged. ' And he died ?' he
said very low.

 He died

Poor beggar !' he said. Achates ver the words
might be, there was nothing light in this tone.

She turned her eyes upon him.

Is life such a good ?' she asked.

Life is what we make it. I am sorry
from my soul for Courtney, who died. I am
more sorry for  some, who live.'

She had been looking full at him as she
spoke with her peculiar absent gaze  a gaze
which seemed to look beyond the body into
the soul; but as he answered, there suddenly
sprang into it a more vivid personal feeling 
something that was almost a question. Whether
or not he read it he made no answer, and presently
she continued.

It was so long ago. Five years are so
long.'

And yet  through that eternity'  involuntary
sarcasm was in his tone  ' you have remembered
him?'

I remember him, but '  she paused, looking
at him with a sort of dumb trouble in her
eyes, Which for the first time sought to find
utterance, and which yet failed to discover the
words in which to clothe its meaning  ' not
as I once did I am not unhappy

'Thank God for that!' he said rather
huskily.

Xo,' she answered slowly. * Faith to remember
would have been a greater sift.'

Are you sure?' he said.

His voice was not perfectly steady. He had
turned away to pluck some long dead grasses
that grew near, and was winding them round
his fingers as he battled with himself. She
would marry Cyril  of that he was no less
convinced than before  whether she was engaged
to him already, or whether, as was
more likely, it was an understood and implied
arrangement not yet definitely and irrevocably
fixed. But that she did not yet love him he was



equally certain ; and with that conviction came,
for the first time, the temptation, fierce and
sudden, to claim her, to attempt at least to
win her. He might fail  it might be impossible
; so far, he knew, she cared for him only
out of her tender compassion and, as she had
said, as a friend ; but could he not change
that compassion to something else ? Why, at
any rate, should he give her up tamely, without
a struggle? Ahat was it to him even
if, as he did not believe, Courtney had her
promise ; what were promises and pledges to
him who was at war with the world, and had
a rio'ht to force out of its closed fingers what
it had never been willing to give him ; what
fealty did he owe to its lawes, its creeds, and its
formulas of honour? None, and none would
he pay. He had already turned to her, already
the words were on his lips which should have
decided both their destinies, when he paused.
What was he doing]:  what was he 2:oin2r to do?

O DO

In his defiance of the world had he forgotten
that, owing no loyalty to it, there was a
deeper loyalty, a purer faith, which he owed
to lier and which sealed his lips? Was she
to be the innocent victim of his quarrel with
fate? Had he not sworn to himself that, bad
as he was, he would never be so base as to
seek to drag her into his disgrace, to darken
her life with the shadow which lay upon his
own, and offer her a stained name; and was it
possible that now, at the first provocation, the
first gleam of a possibility of success, he was
ready to break his vow ? It was scarcely a
minute  she had hardly had time to wonder
at his silence before he turned to her strain
and spoke quietly, as if continuing the conversation
where it had left off.

Believe me,' he said, ' forgetfulness is not
infidelity. If it comes, receive it kindly.'

It was nearly seven o'clock when they
turned homewards. Kit had run on before,

whilst they followed more slowly. Long afterwards
they both remembered that hour ; the
slow loitering descent through the sweet-scented
pines, down the narrow path where
two could scarcely walk abreast, over the slippery
carpet of tir-needles; the red-brown of the
straight tree-stems ; the dim light struggling
through, making a orreen dusk around them 
all went to make up a picture that lived long
in their memories.

Once Eve stumbled on the steep, slippery
path, recovering her footing, however, the next
moment.

Give me your hand,' said Gilbert, in a low
voice. She placed it at once in his, and thus
hand in hand they descended the hill. A
silence had fallen upon them which neither
broke till they emerged upon the open grassy
ground, studded by patches of gorse, which
lav at the bottom of the descent. Then Eve
paused for a moment, drawing her hand out

of his, and giving a long sigh. It was as if,
leaving the darkening woods, some spell had
been broken, which removed, they returned
to common, everyday life. Kit, running up
hot and breathless, possessed by a new idea,
completed the effect.

I may ride your horse ?' he cried eagerly,
before he had reached them. ' Jim won't let me.
I may ride him up to the house, mayn't I ?'

I think you had better not,' returned Yer-school.
' Tatters' temper is uncertain, and
he might not like it.'

I don't care  I want to ride him,' cried
the child. He was tired and cross. ' Joe
says I couldn't keep on, but I could.'

I am afraid Joe is right,' said Tatters'
master carelessly. ' You must wait a bit
before you ride Tatters, my lad.'

Eve had laid her hand on the child's-shoulder,
bending to speak to him, but he
wrenched himself away, beside himself with

anger and disappointment. He raised his
small hand and shook it at Gilbert.

I hate soli!' he cried. 'I hate you, and
Marie says '

Eve had bent forward again to interrupt
him, speaking in a different voice from any he
had heard from her before, and he paused half
frightened. Gilbert, however, interposed.

Let him speak, Miss Carrington,' he said
quietly. ' AVhat does Marie say, my boy ?'

She says you are no better than 2, for cat 
said the child sullenly. He was quite ignorant
of the meaning of the word, but shrewdly
conjectured that it was a forcible form of
abuse, in which, it may be observed, he knew
his nurse to be an adept. The next moment
he had turned and run quickly down the
slope.

The blood had rushed to Eve's face, and
fading iway as quickly, left her white.

Yoifhear, Miss Carrington,' said Gilbert.
VOL. I. 17

If the blow had told, not race of it appeared
in his voice, or in the face  smiling and
unmoved, if a trifle hard  which he turned
towards her,  You cannot at any rate complain
that you have not had warnings sufficient.
I myself, Marie, even Kit, to say
nothing of others '  he glanced keenly at her
* have united to caution you against me

She made no reply ; she would have found
it impossible. The hot tears were forcing
themselves to her eyes. Even as he spoke
one fell on the white bare hands locked
together before her. As Yerschoyle saw it
his tone changed to one of impatient pain.

For God's sake don't do that he said ; * it
is not worth it.' He took the hand on which
the drop had fallen. ' What unlucky chance
ever sent me across your path ?' He was
speaking in low rough tones, not looking at
her face, but at the hand he held. Suddenly
she lifted her eyes, darkened and dilated, to his.

Why should you bear it ?' she asked
passionately; * why '

She broke off, but her eyes were still fixed
upon him. He raised his own slowly, looking
at her with a sort of surprise, which
changed into something else as her meaning
flashed upon him.

Why ?' he repeated vaguely ; ' why '

Forgive me,' she said quickly. ' I did not
mean to ask. I had no right  you know
best.'

He made no reply. He had dropped her
hand, and they were walking slowly on. In
the garden they parted, sadly and gravely
The sun had gone down, the light was fading,
and the mist rose thickly around them as he
took his leave and turned away.

172

HE weather had at last broken up,
with not uncommon suddenness,
after the long spell of sunshine and
drought. The day after that on which Aer-
school and Eve had witnessed the sunset
together from the moor, broke in clouds and
storm, and since then rain had continued more
or less incessantly.

Gilbert's visits, however, had not been
intermitted on account of the unfavourable
weather ; there was, indeed, an additional
inducement to him to come often in the
fact that a term was approaching to the possibility
of his continuing to do so. Patricia

had at last fixed a definite date for her return.
She was expected back at Norton early in
September, and her former lover knew and
recognised the fact of which Miss Carrington
was more dimly conscious, namely, that with
Mrs. Ross's return the ease and frequency of
their intercourse must cease. It was as well
so he told himself  that the inevitable end
should come soon ; but not the less did he
continue, even more recklessly than before, to
make the most of Avhat yet remained, postponing
till afterwards the consideration of
what should follow.

One afternoon  it was towards the end of
the fourth week in August  he entered the
drawing-room where Miss Duke and Eve were
sitting together, and where tea had just been
brought. The rain, which was coming down
outside in torrents, was dripping from his hair
and coat ; and though Eve looked up with

a soft welcome in her face, her first words
were of remonstrance.

How wet you are !' she said. ' How could
you come in such weather ?

He laughed as he answered her question
with another.

Are you aware that it is three days since I
was here last ? Miss Duke, I am sure, has
missed me.'

He had turned to the old lady, taking her
hand with the courteous deference that he
never failed to show her.

Yes, certainly we have missed you,' she
answered, kindly  a gentle well-wisher of all
mankind, she had a special liking for Mr.
Yerschoyle, even though she had begun of
late to feel increased uneasiness at the length
and number of his visits  ' but that is no
reason that you should come so far in weather
like this. Eve is quite right '  laying her
hand upon his sleeve  ' you are wet through.*

That is not a serious matter,' he replied.
I am more than repaid  since I have been
missed.'

He was still addressing Miss Duke, but his
eyes sought Eve's, and as she met them she
smiled.

Will you not at any rate go and get dry ?'
she said. ' There is a fire in the housekeeper's
room. Jones will show you the way.'

Would it be troubling you too much to
ask you to show me the way ?' he asked, with
a suspicion of audacity in his voice. ' It is
quite true  I am desperately wet, but still my
courage is not equal to facing the housekeeper
in her own domains unprotected. Won't you
come ?'

She hesitated a moment, then, acquiescing,
she rose and led the way through the long
passages to the housekeeper's room. Mr.
Verschoyle's fears had been groundless, at
least for the present ; the room was empty,

though a fire burning on the hearth and an
open work-box on the table indicated that it
had been recently occupied. Eve knelt down
and stirred the red coals into a blaze.

Rendal is so old,' she observed, ' she is
always chilly, and has a fire almost all the year
round. It is fortunate for you to-day. Come
near and dry yourself

He bent down, laughing as he shook the rain
from his hair and coat. He was, as she had
seen at a glance, in his happiest mood; even
then she felt, with a transitory thrill of pain,
how rare such moods were with him, how
quickly they passed and were succeeded by his
habitual gravity and gloom. His dark eyes
were lit, his whole manner was that of a man
who has, for the present at least, thrown care
to the winds, and is determined to accept what
life offers without thought of future or past,
save inasmuch as the memory of the one and
the uncertainty of the other may serve to

enhance present enjoyment. Perhaps his long
ride through rain and wind had something todo
with it  he felt he had in some sort earned
this reward.

Eve was sitting on the hearth rug, whilst he
knelt over the fire. Ben, who had somehow
forced his way in, in spite of his master's
remonstrances, lay on the rug beside her, his
smooth wet head on her knee, in absolute contentment.


You are ruiniiio; him, Miss Warrington,'
expostulated Verschoyle. ' He used to be
obedient, but I can do nothing with him now.
He expects to get his own way in everything 
it is bad for dogs as well as men,'

'It is *a choice of evils,' returned Eve,
stroking the dog's sleek coat. ' If indulgence
is bad, contradiction is worse.'

Well, perhaps you are right,' said Ver-school,
with a low laugh. ' Ben fully agrees
with you, at any rate. But it is a dangerous

theory  one is tempted to put your principles
to the test.'

She looked at him, smiling ; the fire had
given her a faint unusual flush, and shone in
her blue eyes.

 Try me,' she said. ' I will not contradict
you.'

'What! you promise blindly? What rashness.
Miss Carrington ! how do you know
to what test I might not put you ? If, for
instance ' he paused a minute, grown suddenly
grave  ' if I asked you to discard what
on your own showing is a token of something
that no longer exists, of what is dead and
gone, would you do it ?'

His eyes were fixed on the hand where
Harry Courtney's diamonds shone. He had
spoken on an impulse as they caught his eye
they had often done so of late, wakening
within him sudden jealousy of the dead man
who  he knew it, however he might wilfully

strive to blind himself to the fact  had
been his only real rival in Eve Carrington's
heart. She lifted her eyes to his with a sort
of troubled inquiry.

It was there once,' she said, faltering.

And now the ring is a " relic of faith," ' he
said, recalled at once to himself, and quoting
the words she had used a few days before, with
a slightly enigmatical expression. ' Well, you
may be right. At any rate, I meant nothing.
I was only demonstrating to you the danger
of rash promises.'

A short silence fell upon them. Outside
the wind swept round a corner of the house,
tilling up the pause with a sound which had
in it a curiously human note. Eve raised her
head and listened intently.

Was it a cry ?' she asked.

No,' said Gilbert reassuringly. ' Nothing,
at least, but the wind; and nobody minds how
much it cries, poor thing. Don't listen to it.'

Why not ?' she asked.

You might hear too much.' He was smiling,
yet half serious. ' The presages that
sounds are said to convey are symbolic, if
nothing else. Listening long enough we shall
be sure to hear death foretold  and it is the
one prophecy which is certain to be fulfilled.'

She looked wistfully into the fire.

Has not life its prophets too ?' she asked.

 The less is contained in the greater. Life
always carries the germs of death.'

It is a gloomy creed,' she said with a shiver.

Then forget it,' he said hastily ; ' it is probably
not true  for you.'

He changed the subject, exerting himself
so successfully to efface any impression his
words might have made that when, a little
later, Mrs. Kendal returned to her room,
Eve's rare low laugh greeted her on the
threshold. The door was ajar, and neither
of them noticed the old woman, as she stood

for a moment watching them. She had a
shrewd, kindly face, but as she looked at the
stoup before her it was anxious and disturbed.
She had known and loved the girl
half her lifetime, and it seemed to her that she
detected a new ring in her voice, that a new
expression lay in the eyes that were even now
lifted to Yerschoyle's. Whatever might be
Miss Duke's ignorance of his story, it was to
Mrs. Rendal, no less than to the rest of the
household, well known, and she was asking
herself what but harm could come of an intimacy
between such a man as he and her
young mistress. A moment later Eve had
seen her.

Ah, Rendal,' she said. ' We have invaded
your premises. This is Mr. Yerschoyle  he
has been drying himself at the fire.'

The old woman had advanced, and stood
looking at the stranger.

I remember Mr. Yerschoyle,' she said,

though it is twenty years since I saw
him  it was when I was living with Lady
Courtney

Was it intentionally that she introduced the
name ? She had addressed Eve, but her eyes
were on Gilbert, distrustful and scrutinizing.
He had risen with ready courtesy, and had
taken the old woman's hand.

Then we are old acquaintances,' he said,
though I am afraid I cannot expect you to
remember me.'

Is he changed ?' said Eve, her eyes resting
with unconscious pride on his dark, handsome
face. ' Would you have known him, Kendal ?
What was he like ?'

I think I should have known him,' she
answered slowly. ' He is changed, of course,
but his eyes and hair are the same.'

He passed his hand overtake short black waves.

Ah, there are grey hairs in it now, if you
look close enough,' he said with a smile.

You must let me come and see you another
day, Mrs. Kendal.'

He took her hand again before he followed
Eve to the drawing-room. The housekeeper
looked after them with a sigh.

No good will come of it,' she said, as she
took up her work again. ' Yes, he looks just
as he did then  he was always a bad-tempered
boy.'

Meanwhile, unconscious of Mrs. Rendal's
disapproval, Eve and Yerschoyle sat talking
together, whilst Miss Duke, as was
generally her custom, played the part of a
listener, allowing her thoughts to wander
away whilst her fingers were occupied with
her soft white work, and her kind old eyes
looked over from time to time at her
companions. Perhaps, notwithstanding the
weather without, it was one of the most
sunshiny hours that they Iliad yet passed.
It was also, though of this they were happily

ignorant, the last of its kind which they were
to know

Have you told Mr. Yerschoyle that your
sister is to be here next week?' asked Miss
Duke, at a pause in the conversation. ' You
have not met dear Mrs. Ross yet, I believe?'
turning to Gilbert. ' We are hoping to have
her back in ten days at the latest.'

Eve glanced towards him with involuntary
deprecation.

'Yes  he knows,' she said, answering Miss
Duke's question.

Gilbert had read the meaning of her embarrassment,
half amused and yet resenting
it ; and as Miss Duke, always inclined to be
absent, subsided once more into her owen reflections,
he rose abruptly and crossed over to
the girl.

Miss Carrington,' he said, very low, 'you
must retract.'

'What?' she asked, rather breathlessly.

He was smiling, yet she could see he was
angry.

An assertion you have made, not once, but
again and again, though not in words  an
accusation you might surely have known me
by this time too well to have brought against
me. Is it possible that you can believe that
your sister is anything to me ?'

 She is not ?' she asked, faltering.

Nothing  less than nothing,' he answered,
still with low, impatient vehemence. ' It was
no more than a passing fancy, and now I  I
have forgotten it.'

He had almost forgotten more than his
fancy for Patricia. He had almost forgotten
himself and his hard-won, hard-kept resolutions,
everything but Eve herself, as he stood
over her looking at her downcast face, still
with that anger born of love darkening his
own.

And you,' he went on with suppressed

VOL. I. 18

passion, ' you supposed  you imagined for an
instant that I still  that she could be anything
to me now ?'

Forgive me,' she murmured.

You are sorry ?' he asked, bending eagerly
down ; ' you will promise '

General Cartwright.'

The door had been thrown open, and a
visitor announced. They both turned, and
Eve, rising, advanced to meet the new comer,
a tall, soldierly old man with a thin, square
face and iron-grey hair growing far back on
his temples.

As Yerschoyle heard his name, and, turning,
saw him, he remembered, through all his
annoyance at the unwelcome interruption,
that the General had been one of his father's
closest friends, and that he himself had, as a
boy, been in the constant habit of frequenting
his house on the most intimate terms.
Neither, however, made any sign of recognition

till Eve, her own greeting over, spoke
Gilbert's name in introduction.

There was a pause. The General had
glanced in his direction, looked him steadily-over,
and then, with a frigid bow, had turned
away'. The dark colour sprang to Yer-school's
face.

Yes, it is very wet, as you say '  General
Cartwright had seated himself, and, totally
isnorinof the introduction which had taken
place, was speaking to Eve in answer to some
observation of hers on the weather which had
preceded it  ' but I never stay indoors on
account of rain. An old soldier, you
know '

Eve had looked from one to the other of the
two men, and as she looked at once she
understood the situation. She had been taken
by surprise by General Cartwright entrance,
when her thoughts were otherwise engage],
and so had, for a minute, lost sight of the

182

bearings of the case ; but now, realizing them
with sudden force, and brought for the first
time face to face with the fact of Gilbert's
position as regarded the world, the even
current of her blood was stirred, and without
a moment's hesitation she threw herself unwisely
into the breach.

Do you not know Mr. Verschoyle ?' she
said again, interrupting her visitor's flow of
talk in a clear ringing voice which compelled
an answer.

I do not,' said the General. The meaning
of his words and tone was unmistakable.

Eve's eyes lightened ; already she had turned
to him ; in another moment the words would
have been spoken which should have made her
sentiments towards the two men plain, when
Gilbert came quietly forward. He had been
watching her, half touched, half impatient, with
a full perception of her meaning and of her
probable course of action, and now interposed.

I have trespassed too long on your
patience, Miss Carrington he said with the
tone and manner of an absolute stranger who
had called on business which was now concluded.
' I need detain you no longer.'

He scarcely touched the hand she held out,
and then, with a bow to Miss Duke, was gone.

An old soldier, you knows,' said the
General, resuming the thread of his discourse
as he settled himself in his chair and put
down his hat on the floor, 'is not particular
about a few drops of rain, and '

Eve never knew how the next few minutes
passed. She had at once perceived Gilbert's
intention, and perceiving it she did not venture,
even for his own sake, to disobey him ;
his look and tone had laid a command and a
prohibition upon her which she dared not disregard.
He had forbidden her, as plainly as
if it had been in spoken words, to avow his
friendship or to take up his cause, and hers

was the rare and absolute loyalty which would
not disobey him even in his own service.
Perhaps, however, he did not realize how
hard a task he had laid upon her as she sat
talking. of indifferent matters, of the weather,
of her sister's return, of Mrs. Cartwright who
was ill ; and all the time with only one image
before her  Gilbert's face as she had seen it
last, hard and cold ; only one thought in her
mind  how to make up to him! At last,
taking a swift resolution, she rose.

You will excuse me one moment ?' she
said with a smile. ' There is something to
which I must attend.'

She went quickly out, leaving her visitor to
Miss Duke. General Cartwright, for his part,
was puzzled and perplexed, and indistinctly
conscious that there was something unusual
about the atmosphere ; but he was not a clever
man nor a shrewd observer, and arriving at
the conclusion, naturally drawn from Yer-school's

manner, that his visit had been
simply one of business, connected, perhaps,
with some outlying parts of the Norton
estate which touched upon his own, he decided
to make no reference to the young man's
presence. He was himself sorry for what had
occurred, and yet, remembering the past, and
remembering too how Gilbert's offence had been
treated by his father, he did not see how, as
his father's friend, he could have acted otherwise.
To condone in any way that which had
been so heavily visited would have been a
tacit condemnation of the course which had
been pursued with regard to it, and such a
condemnation, even had his own sentiments
and views been less rigid than they were, he
could never have brought himself to pass.

Eve, meanwhile, had gone out into the hall.
A thick grey shawl lay on a chair, anil
wrapping it round her mechanically she
opened the hall door and passed out. The

rain had intermitted, but an occasional heavy
drop was blown violently in her face, and the
wind swept round the house and whistled
through the great trees.

She glanced rapidly down the approach.
On the right, some hundred yards off, were
the stables, to which, as she knew, Gilbert
would have gone to seek his horse ; to the left
lay the road which he would have to traverse
on his way home. Her resolution was taken.
She moved quickly in the latter direction till
reaching the avenue where the trees shut out
the house from view, she stood and waited,
leaning against a chestnut, her breath coming
quick and short.

It was only two or three minutes before
the horse's hoofs drew near ; another, and she
had come forward, speaking his name.

Mr. Yerschoyle.'

He started and pulled u]) his horse. She
had advanced and now stood by his side, her

pale face raised, the dark, heavy hair on her
forehead ruffled by the wind. But yet she did
not speak. She had come to meet him rather
from an overmastering necessity of seeing him
once more, of making up to him in some way,
she knew not how, for the insult he had received
in her house, from an impulse with
which she had not reasoned and had had no
power to resist, than from any more deliberate
plan ; and now that she was close to him she
had nothing to say.

Gilbert, for his part, was for a moment
silenced by profound surprise.

'Miss Carrinoton/ he said, after that momentary
pause. ' What is it ? What are you
doing out here in the rain ?'

The temporary lull was over  the rain was
once more falling heavily, and was blown in
thick driving gusts upon her bare head and in
her face.

She made no answer. She had not heard

his question. Suddenly, as she stood there
below, looking up into his face, dark and
stern as it was, she knew  knew for the first
time, but with a certainty as stunning as it
was sudden  that she loved him. Five
minutes ago when she had left the house  
nay, one minute ago when she had come
forward to meet him, he had still been the
man she had been sorry for, the guest who had
been insulted in her house. As she had waited
for him under the dripping trees, with all her
pulses beating and throbbing, she had still
strange as it may seem  been in ignorance
of the real meaning of the bitter passion of
resentment that had filled her, foreign as it
was to the experiences of her nature, of the
personal sense of indignant rebellion as if,
nav, a thousand times more than if it had
been she herself who had been subjected to
the insult; but she would never be ignorant
again. The veil had been roughly, violently

torn away; and as she stood, her head thrown
back, the rain beating upon her face, her eyes
wide open, . dazed, confused, Winded as it
were by the shock, she knew that she loved
Gilbert Yerschoyle  loved him with a love so
different, so absolutely unlike the tender unimpassioned
affection she had borne Harry
Courtney, that the latter had lent her no
experience or clue by which to read aright
the meaning and interpretation of that which
was mastering her now.

There had been no long pause. Five
seconds had scarcely elapsed before he spoke
again, yet they had been long enough to
set Eve Carrington in a world where she
miofht look in vain for the old familiar landmarks,
and where all things were become
new.

You must not stay here,' he said, growing-surprise
in his tone. ' You must go in.'

Still she scarcely heard him. She had

turned away and laid her head against the
horse's glossy neck, as if thus to hide what
she felt might be written on her face.

He spoke again, more gently :

'Are you troubled about what has happened?
There is no need. It had to come  
I always knew it. It is well, perhaps, that it
has come now.'

The words penetrated to her as through a
mist, dimly. She was vaguely conscious of
their meaning ; she remembered indistinctly to
Avhat they referred. Somebody had insulted her
him  what did it matter ? Just now she
could realize nothing save the one great overwhelming
certainty borne in upon her, compared
with which all else faded and paled
into insignificance. She was not glad, not
sorry  she was only supremely conscious of
the fact. She was absolutely speechless. She
had lifted her head, but stood with it turned
away so that he could not see her face.

 Good-bye he said, speaking once again.
His voice was low and a little stern, like
that of a man who suffers, but is master of
himself.

Slowly she turned and lifted her eyes to
him as he sat above her, bending from the
saddle, his face grave and severe and worn.
For perhaps half a minute they looked into
one another's eyes. Suddenly as he looked his
face changed, the brow contracted, and the
firm mouth quivered. Again the longing,
heaven down and trampled under foot before,
had arisen with gathered force; again he was
cursing his fate and almost rebelling against
it. The impatient horse was chafing at the
bit; her eyes had dropped; she was waiting,
still and motionless, as she would have waited
for ever only to be near him, asking nothing
more; but when he spoke nature had once
again been crushed doAvn, and what he would
have called honour had triumphed.

Good-bye,' he said.

For a moment his hand lay on her wet,
dark hair, and then he was gone, and she
stood alone in the wind and the rain under
the swaying branches.

CHAPTER I.

Meanwhile, whilst Yersclioyle and
Eve had been falling deeper and
deeper into the snares that fate
had set for their unwary feet, Mrs. Ross had
been steadily approaching her goal, and was
at last within sight of success in the plans
and schemes which had been occupying her
for the last few weeks.

She had returned to pay her second visit to
Mrs. Smythe, and almost on her arrival had
received a letter from Lord Ralston, who was
VOL. ir. 19

not to be there till some two or three days
later, making her at length a definite offer of
his hand. Some men would have deferred it
till they could have made their proposal in
person, but that would not have been Lord
Ralston's way. To adopt the longest and
most deliberate method was with him almost
a principle, and in this case he stated his
reasons.

I write instead of speaking,' he said, ' in
order that you may not be hurried, or,
taken unawares, give an answer on the impulse
of the moment.' In another man an
expression of such a fear might have been
taken for sarcasm, but Lord Ralston had
never been known to employ it. 'I wish you
to consider the subject fully and at your leisure,
and to give me an answer on my return on
Thursday. I need not say how much I hope
it may be a favourable one.'

When Mrs. Ross had first received the

letter, and indeed for some little time afterwards,
she lead enjoyed her triumph. The
chase itself gives value to the prize ; she had
worked industriously for it, and she felt a
natural gratification in her success. Yet, as
she sat in her room alone on the afternoon on
which Lord Salton was expected to return,
her first fish of triumph over, she was
annoyed to feel that success had its drawbacks.
Even the shallowest natures are not
exempt from human weaknesses, although
perhaps it is only in the higher grades that
they are fully developed, and that discontent
becomes the rule instead of the exception.
With Patricia one of the strongest principles
upon which she systematically acted was to
take the line or course of action which promised
a fullest return in the shape of enjoyment,
and having taken it, to avoid looking
back on possible alternatives ; and as a general
rule she did not find it difficult to act upon

192

that principle. Yet now, for the first time
for months, the remembrance was persistently
forcing itself upon her of the days of
her brief engagement to Yerschoyle ; and for
the first time those recollections, suddenly
taking, most inopportunely, form and shape,
were vexing her with their unwelcome
memory. Involuntarily she contrasted him,
as Eve had done, with the man she meant to
marry, and felt, not regret or compunction for
the course she had pursued, but an angry
impatience with life which had forced such a
course upon her.

Perhaps it was a sentence in Eve's letter of
that morning which had suggested the comparison.
Hitherto, with a reluctance  into the
causes of which she did not examine  to name
Gilbert to her sister, Miss Carrington had abstained
from all mention of him or his visits;
but in her last letter she had spoken of him
casually, as she might of any other visitor,

and the occurrence of his name had produced
a faint sense of disquiet in Mrs. Ross's mind.
Why was he at ]portions? AYhat was he doing
there? She recalled Eve's first impulse of
championship, her confidence in his innocence,
and, not less significant, her absolute silence
on the subject ever since, and a sharp, jealous
pang shot through her. She did not love
him, she had voluntarily given him up, and
had no wish that they should ever meet again;
]put she could not contemplate even the remote
possibility of his becoming attached to her sister
without a sense of annoyance, which she told
herself was purely unselfish. And yet, if he
was visiting her, if her house alone in the
neighbourhood was open to him, what was
more likely to happen? She rose and walked
over to the open window, and, leaning her
arms on the window-sill, leant out whilst she
tried to think, still with that feeling of restlessness
and discontent at her heart. But her

thoughts would wander. The large park lay
stretched out below ; some gardeners were
rolling the gravel walks ; two of Mrs.
Smythe's boys, heavy loutish lads, were
quarrelling under her window ; whilst that
lady herself, in her well-appointed carriage,
was driving up the long approach. Mrs.
Boss could not see her, but yet her face,
tranquil, stolid, and self-satisfied  so like her
brother's  was present in her mind, filling up
the picture of opulence and riches and dulness
; and was it for this, to lead the same sort
of existence, varied in her case by political
life, in which, except as it placed her, through
her husband, in a more prominent position,
she took not the faintest interest  was it for
this that she had schemed and planned?  was
it this that had filled her with triumph when
she had realized that she was approaching its
attainment ?

The carriage was comlno' nearer, and she

perceived with a start that Lord Ralston sat
beside his sister  she had probably gone to
the station to bring him back, or perhaps had
met him by accident. Patricia drew back
quickly. She was in a white wrapper, with
her pretty light hair on her shoulders, and
becoming though the negligee might be, she
was fully aware that it was not the garb in
which her future husband would prefer to
view her ; and she proceeded forthwith to
dress for dinner, with the care natural to a
woman who was preparing to meet, if not the
man she loved, at least the man she intended
to marry, dismissing as much as possible all
disquieting reflections from her mind.

Two or three hours later she was in the
library, where, dinner over, Lord Ralston had
taken her, and had given him his answer.

She had no doubt, no hesitation as to what
it should be; but, nevertheless, he had never
appeared so unprepossessing, so commonplace

in her eyes  never had she been so conscious
of his defects, negative as they were, as now
when she compared him involuntarily with
Yerschoyle, careless though the love-making
of the latter had been.

The remembrance of the day, noah eight
months ago, when Gilbert Yerschoyle had asked
her to marry him, would recur to her mind as
pertinaciously as it was unwelcome. He had
made his suggestion, even then, negligently,
with no pretence of feeling more than he did.
She remembered it all : the blue Italian sky
overhead, the bright winter sunshine, the
band playing below, the passers-by with their
gay, ceaseless chatter, and Gilbert leaning
one arm over the back of her chair, whilst his
dark handsome face looked down at her.

Life is not apt to be much of a success in
any case,' he had said ; 'but together we
might perhaps make a better thing of it than
apart  don't you think so ?'

He had been fond of her, though half contemptuously,
and in her shallow light way she
had loved him as she answered yes. At any
rate, for that day they had been happy. The
sun had gone on shining, and the band playing,
and the passers-by going to and fro, and
she had been proud of him. But of course
she had done quite right to break off her
engagement. She had beo-un to entertain
doubts of its wisdom even before the revelation
was made which had finally decided her,
and on sober reflection she knew that he was
the very last man she would have chosen to
marry ; whereas Lord Ralston, standing-before
her steady, grave and kind, if a little
self-occupied and certainly not brilliant, was
a most desirable match  as he was, for the
matter of that, proving to her in the most
elaborate fashion. It was tiresome that
Gilbert's image should so insist upon obtruding
itself; but when she came back to the drawing-room,

half an hour after she had left it, there
was nothing but satisfaction visible on her face.

Yes, your brother is good enough to wish
me to marry him, and I have said yes,' she
said to Mrs. Smythe that evening when they
had gone upstairs, and that lady had kissed
and congratulated her in the most correct
form. It was not the choice she would have
made for her brother, but she had confidence
in him, like all his family, and had, moreover,
no more wish than power to interfere.

I am sure he will make an excellent
husband, and that you will do your best to
make him happy, my dear,' she added.

I am sure I hope he will do his best to
make me happy,' corrected Mrs. Ross, but not
aloud.

Outwardly she received her future sister-in-law's
congratulations with becoming oTavitv
and decorum, escaping, however, to her own
room with all possible celerity.

I wonder if it is vorth it, after all !' she
said to herself, rejecting Elise's aid, to that
personage's astonishment, and dismissing herat
once.  Eve would say not ; but then,
what does she know of life ? Robert loved
me, and tltat certainly did not answer. Poor
Robert, what an idealist he was ! Idealists
should not marry ; when once the inevitable
disillusionment has taken place they become
unbearable. Gilbert was fond of me in his
Away  as fond as it was in him to be of anyone
and I liked him, but we should have been
miserable together. Xow Lord Ralston cares
no more for me than I do for him, and I think
there is every chance of our union turning out
a success.'

With which consolatory reflection Mrs.
Ross went to sleep. It was a little annoying
that she persistently dreamt of Gilbert Yer-school.


When Yerschoyle rode away, leaving Eve
standing in the avenue, one idea stood out
clear and prominent amid the confusion which
reigned in his mind  the resolution, that is,
that he would never come back.

It was not that General Cartwright's
behaviour had thrown an}- new light on the
matter. It was true he had resented, keenly
and bitterly, the insult, offered, as it had been,
in the presence of Eve; but he had already
almost forgotten it. And yet it had been
just the touch which was needed to rouse him
to a sense of the impossibility of affairs remaining
as they were ; and had he hesitated further
he would have been decided by what had
followed, which had wakened all that was
unselfish in him to life and action.

It was not that even now he allowed to
himself that Eve Carrington loved him. Life
had taught him  graven in him  a scepticism
which as yet his knowledge of her, and the



purer higher views which she had unconsciously
opened out to him, had only begun
to shake; but, nevertheless, looking down at
her face and reading its sadness, whilst he
refused to decipher that which, deeper than
sadness, was written in her eyes, he was
conscious of a certain danger for her, as well
as for himself, in their continued intimacy.
Trouble and perplexity, at least, it could not fail
to draw down upon her ; he was sufficiently
a man of the world to know that things could
not 2:0 on as they had done of late without
doing so ; the scene of to-day was only a
sample of what would follow ; he would be
using her generosity and pity to bring her
into collision with her world, and he was at
once too proud and too chivalrous to accept
such a sacrifice. Xo, he had said good-bye to
her, and had said it, as he reflected with
melancholy pride, without letting her discover
by word or sign what she had become to

him ; and now they had parted, and it was
over. She should never have the grief of
knowing the injury she had unwittingly done
him, or guess that her hand, instead of
liohtenino' had made his lot tenfold harder
than before. They had parted. They might
of course meet ao-ain ; the chances of life micrht
bring them once more face to face, but never
in the close intercourse of friend with friend.
Her old habits would, he being removed
from her path, resume their old sway ; old
friendships, old influences would regain any
power they might have lost ; she would marry
Courtney  he knew it  the brother of the
man she had loved, and her brief friendship
with himself, the outcast, would be remembered
merely as an episode in the serious
history of her life. He resolutely faced the
facts, and swore to himself that he would not
lift a finger to avert the end which he
foresaw.

As to his own future, he turned with a
weary impatience from its contemplation.
What would it be ? he could not tell  he did
not even greatly care. He vas content to
leave Time, that great arbiter of all our
destinies, to settle his. Yet, try as he might
to ignore it, he knew that for better or for
worse that future was changed ; as he had
been he could never be again. Before,
through all that had befallen him, he had at
least been able to take refuge in a bitter
scepticism. If the life he was leading was
low and unworthy, without aims or ideals,
at least none other was possible  so he had
told himself; if he had not even found happiness,
he had at least the consolation  poor
as it Alas  of a doubt whether it were to be
found at all. But how would it be when he
returned to that life, stripped as before of all
that was ennobling, and weighted with the
additional consciousness of what it might,

have been, with the memory and the possibility
haunting him of one higher and better
but to which the road was for him barred ?
However it might be, he told himself he had
no choice ; once again, what was best in him
stood as the angel guarding the * doors of
Eden. He would never win his Eve by
dratrgfino; her out of the o-arden to share his
world of thorns and briars and thistles.

He was a strong man and a resolute one,
and having decided on his course he did his
best to carry it out loyally, to forget as far as
was possible what might have tempted him
from it, and to throw himself into the other
interests and pursuits open to him, entering
upon the struggle with a hard determination
characteristic of the man. He rode, studied
farming, read, shot, indefatigably, and even
attempted to take an interest in Dorothy,
feeling a passing compassion for the drear'
emptiness of the child's life, scarcely lessened

by the fact that she was herself unconscious of
any occasion for it. He had seen more of her
of late, and though he had no suspicion of the
sort of attachment which she was developing
towards himself, and which would, indeed,
had he guessed it, have been regarded by him
rather as an embarrassment than in any other
light, he was beginning to feel a certain sense
of duty towards her. He had even been
roused to slight amusement by Miss Hare's
evident disapprobation of the terms of increased
intimacy upon which they stood, and
the transparent and flimsy excuses which she
was in the habit of inventing in order to
prevent any intercourse between them taking-place
which might tend to throw her pupil in
any greater degree under the influence of her
brother. When, about a week after his final
visit to Norton, he announced his intention
of taking the child for a drive, he listened to
the plausible objections advanced by Miss
VOL. II. , X - 20

Hare in silence, and then turned to the governess
with suspicious suavity.

In fact, you think Dorothy had better not
come ?' he asked.

I do indeed, Mr. Yerschoyle. It is very
good of you, but '

I am sorry to be obliged to differ with
you,' replied Dorothy's guardian courteously
but I wish her to do so.'

He had asserted his authority, and Miss
Hare, indignant as she was, had nothing to do
but to submit. He turned away with a slight
smile, which faded, however, almost as it came.

The drive was not a success. Gilbert Alas
preoccupied and silent, and Dorothy glanced
at him from time to time with covert uneasiness.
She disapproved of her brother scarcely
less than before ; but, notwithstanding her disapproval,
she had attached herself to him in a
certain undemonstrative way of her own, and
his indifference to her was a sore point with the

child. Uniform though careless as was his
kindness, she knew that Ben, his dog, was
more to him than she was, and she was not
mistaken. Gilbert was a hard man, and life had
not softened him ; his stepmother's child had
no place in his affections, and he would not pretend
that she had. And yet she was fond of her
brother ; she had noticed the change that the
last few days had worked in him  the more
so that, quite unconscious of her observation,
he had made no special efforts to disguise or
conceal it  and now as she glanced at him,
wrapped in his own reflections, she remarked
the worn look about his eyes and the harassed
expression of the Adiole face, with a wish, which
yet she dared not gratify, to ask him Avhat
was vrcong. Perhaps she was not altogether
without her own suspicions on the subject, for
though small and childish, Dorothy was already
fifteen, and, as has been said, not at any rate
behind her age in worldly wisdom. Had

202

Miss Carrington refused him, she speculated.
She would not have wondered, nor indeed
blamed her, had such been the case ; but she
was sorry for Gilbert, nevertheless. She tried
a bold stroke.

Where are we going ?' she asked, as they
turned out of the lodge-gates. ' To Norton?'

Neo, not there,' answered Gilbert rather
curtly. * Where do you wish to go ?'

*I don't care, unless we went there,' persisted
Dorothy. ' I should like to go to
INTortons. I '

Gilbert interrupted her.

I thought I had told you I was not going-there.
Shall we go to Broom Hill ? I have
to see a man about a horse, and we might doit
to-day.'

Dorothy made no further remonstrance, but
she drew her inferences no less, and meditated
upon them during the remainder of the drive.

When they reached home Mr. Erskine was

standing at the door, waiting till his ring
should be answered, and he turned at the
sound of wheels.

 Ah, Yerschoyle !' he said, ' I was coming
to call upon you. I have been unlucky lately.
You are always out. How are you, Miss
Dorothy?'

Indisposed for visitors as he was, Gilbert
responded with sufficient cordiality, and was
leading the way to the library when his eye
was caught by a letter lying on the table in
the hall. It had been brought by the afternoon
post, and had been placed there by the
butler to await his return. As he saw it he
started slightly. He had never received a
letter from Eve Carrington, nor, as far as he
was aware, had he seen her handwriting ; but
yet even before he had touched it he knew
that it was from her. He took it up, and
with it in his hand he followed his guest into
the library.

 ' Don't let me prevent you reading your
letter,' said Mr. Erskine cheerfully; lie was a
man who carried perpetual cheerfulness almost
to the verge of ofFensiveness, pleasant in other
respects though he was. He was evidently
settling himself for a long visit. He had put
down his hat, and arranged himself comfortably
in a chair.

Thank you,' said Verschoyle quietly, laying
it on the chimney-piece, and turning to
his guest ; * it can wait.'

Gilbert talked well that day, almost brilliantly.
Mr. Erskine thought what good
company he was, and gave an involuntary
additional regret to the circumstances which
excluded him from the society of the neighbourhood,
as he sat smoking the cigar with
which his host had supplied him, and almost
forgetting for the time his pastoral avocations
in the discussion of more mundane affairs ;
though he made a praiseworthy attempt from

time to time to return to his more proper
sphere.

'Do you see that Farrell is just dead?' he
asked ; ' he will be a great loss to the
country.'

What, the philanthropist ? Yes, I suppose
he will,' answered Gilbert. ' Philanthropists
always remind me of flies and other noisome
insects. We are told, and of course believe,
that they are essential to the well-being of the
universe at large, however unpleasant they maybe
to the individual. Ah,' as Mr. Erskine attempted
a remonstrance, 'perhaps you have had
no personal experience of them. / once fell
into the hands of one of the race. I fancy
there must have been a scarcity of criminals
just then, so deep and constant was the interest
he took in me  it left me with a horror
of the species.'

When Mr. Erskine at last rose to take
leave, with a pleasant and unusual sense of

having enjoyed a forbidden pleasure, Yer-school
went with him to the door and detained
him for a few minutes in conversation ;
stopping, when he was gone, to caress Ben,
who was asleep in the hall, before he returned
to the library, and took up the letter
lying on the mantelpiece. Even then he held
it some minutes in his hand before breaking
the seal. When he did so, it did not take
long to read.

Dear Mr. Yerschoyle,' Eve wrote,  ' AVill
you come and see me ? I cannot believe that
because of one unhappy chance you will not
come again, and yet I cannot help thinking
that was your meaning when you left me.
It was not my fault  you know it. AVill
you not come ? -yours sincerely, Eve Warrington.'


So ran the short note, that was so like herself
that he almost heard her soft voice as he
read, expostulating with him for thus, as she

imagined, resenting an injury. ' It was not
her fault.' What was her fault ? everything
and nothing.

Long he remained motionless, his elbows
on the table and the letter before him as he
stared down at it. At last he rose.

My darling, why do you ask me ?' he
muttered. * Why do you not let me alone ?

I was doing my best. I ' he broke off.

I can't do it,' he said a moment later.
She does not know what she asks. I can't
do it.'

He took up the letter, and tearing it into
fragments, threw it away.

Is it not a long time since ]mr. Yer-school
was here ?' asked Miss
Duke one afternoon. She and
Eve were alone together in the drawing-room.
The weather was ao'ain fine, and outside the
sun was shining. The girl looked up with a
start from the book which lay on her knee.

It is  a long time,' she answered, a little
breathlessly.

Ah, well,' said the old lady deprecatingly,
 perhaps it is best. Sometimes I have thought,
though I never said so, that he might be here
too much.'

Miss Duke's tone was gentle, even apologetic,
but Eve shivered as she answered.

I do not think that he will come again.'
she answered in her low voice.

Miss Duke looked across at her quickly, a
question hovering on her lips ; but she did not
put it, and a few minutes later she rose and
left the room.

It was more than ten days since Gilbert and
Eve had parted. Patricia was expected home
in two or three days more. Four days ago
he had received the letter it had cost her so
much to write, and he had made no sign
in answer  neither coming nor writing. All
those days she had been waiting, looking
for him ; the opening of a door, the sound of a
bell had been sufficient to make her heart
stand still, but now she had given up hope.
He had not come ; he did not mean to come ;
it was plain. She did not judge him ; she
was not angry nor resentful  or if she was, it

was not with him but with others  but she
was supremely unhappy. She told herself
that if she could have seen him but once more
she would have been content ; if she could
have told him, just for once, in plain language
though surely he knew it already  that
however "others might misjudge him, whatever
might be the insults they might offer him,
she, at least, had never doubted nor mistrusted
him. Why, she asked herself with
vain and purposeless regret, why had she not
done so before ? what had sealed her lips from
such a confession of her faith? Surely their
friendship had, at least, been close enough to
have given her the right to break silence and
to tell it him, once for all ? But now the
opportunity was gone, and might never return
; she would go through life haunted by
the possibility that in the hours  she knew
him well enough to know that they were not
few  when bitterness got the upper hand and

crushed down his more generous impulses and
beliefs, he might class her among the throng,
if not of his enemies, at least of his accusers,
of those who in thought, if not in action, had
done him wrong. She wrung her hands
together with sudden, sharp agony  how
could she live feeling that he might be thus
misjudging her ?

As she sat with her book on her knee, forgetting
to turn the pages, she went again and
again wearily over the same ground, always
returning to the same point ; she had asked him
to come, and he had not come  he had taken
no notice of the request. As to that discovery
which she had made when she had parted
from him last, if she did not attempt to dispute
or deny it, yet in some measure she put it out
of sight. She knew that she loved him; lie
also kncAV, or thought she knew, that he did
not love her. She had already laid it away
amongst the certainties of life. As a possibility,

it would have troubled her ; as a probability,
she might have struggled against it;
but being a certainty, she succeeded to some
degree in putting it away. Nothing she could
do would alter it, even if she would have had
it altered  it was there, like death, certain,
sure, and inevitable ; and, like death, it was
ignored. It was a misfortune, perhaps; but as
one affecting herself alone, it ranked in importance
below what concerned the man she
loved. Had he been happy and successful and
prosperous, she might have had leisure to be
sorry for herself : but as it Alas, the tragedy
of his life left no room in her for minor considerations.
She would have grudged him
nothing; it was the uselessness of the sacrifice
alone, its powerlessness to help or heal him,
Which held for her any sting of bitterness.

Thus it was not of herself that she was
thinking as she sat on alone after Miss Duke
had left her, but of him ; dwelling with vain and

obstinate pertinacity upon the old painful story
that she had gone over so often that it seemed
to her that she knew it by heart; picturing to
herself the hard and unsympathetic home of
which he had once or twice incidentally given
her the outline ; dwelling upon the ordeal
through which, alone and unfriended, his
proud, sensitive nature had passed ; and
wondering, above all, as she had so often
before vainly wondered, what had been the
cause that had kept him silent  the reason
that had held him back from a vindication.

His behaviour towards herself she did not
resent. It was true he might have come, or
at least have written ; but could she blame him
if he shrank from exposing himself again to
insults such as that which in that very room
in her house  had been offered to him't
No ; she told herself, loyal even in thought,
that if he had not done well, not chosen the
best, at least he was not without a justification

in the course he was pursuing, the part he
had taken ; he She broke off suddenly.

Even as the thought had passed through
her mind the door had opened, and before she
looked up she knew that the man of whom
she had been thinking stood in the room.

The revulsion was too great. She did not
rise or make any ordinary greeting; and for
his part, he too made none. He did not take
her hand; he scarcely so much as looked at her
as he came forward. His face was worn and
jaded, and his eyes had the restless look, the
slight redness about the lids, which comes
from want of sleep. After one glance at her,
he turned abruptly away and sat down.

I have come,' he said, ' since you wished
it  for the last time.'

Her heart seemed to stand still. She lifted
her hand and passed it across her brow.

For the last time ?' she repeated mechanically.


For the last time.' He was gazing gloomily
before him, his lips compressed and his brow
contracted, like a man who was nerving himself
to undergo some severe physical suffering.
There was a silence in the room. Just outside
a bird was singing loudly. He turned
to her abruptly.

I would have spared myself this,' he said,
 I have been three days making up my mind
to face it, but it was a cowardly instinct.'

I do not understand,' she answered. A
vague, confused sense of pain and bewilderment,
like a nightmare, oppressed her. ' I do
not understand. What would you have spared
yourself ?'

Seeing you again  telling you all you
have a right to know  all my wretched story
But it is best that you should hear the truth
from myself It is at least due to you that
you should know from my own lips that
I '

VOL. ir. 21

She lifted her hand with a swift movement
of interruption, arresting the words he would
have spoken.

Stop,' she said. ' Do not insult yourself
or me by a justification. Do you imagine that
I need it ?  for what do you take me ? Tell
others, those who have doubted you, that you
are innocent. I would sooner believe that I
had done it myself.'

The rare passion was roused in her; her
voice, low as it was, vibrated and rang; her
blue eyes burnt ; her face, even her lips, were
bloodless.

Gilbert looked at her steadily for one long
second ; then, rising, walked across to the
window, standing with his back to her and
looking out. Perhaps a minute passed before
he returned, his face a little harder, a little
sterner than before. When he spoke his voice
was steady and cold.

You are mistaken. I did it.'



The room swayed up and down around her.
A ray of sunlight, which had found its vay
through the Venetian blinds and lay across it,
flashed into her eyes, dazzling her; then fora
moment all was dark. She put out her
hand blindly as if to seek support or ward offa
blow.

'It is false,' she said. ' You say it to
try me. You need not. I never doubted
you.'

 It is not false,' he said roughly. ' Is it a
story a man would tell of himself if it were
not true? Was it my fluilt that you did not
l)elieveit? did I ever lie to sou? Did I not
Avaro you again and again against myself?
Nobody else doubted it  why should they ?
It had been clear as daylight from the first ; I
had never denied it. Did not they tell you of
it before I even saw you? was it not the
reason your sister threw me over? Did not
my father's friend insult me in this room;?

212

How was I to know that you alone doubted
it ? what more proof could you have had ?'

My God !' she exclaimed.

She had scarcely heard what he had said, or
Fit least had scarcely grasped the meaning of
his words, but still the truth was forcing itself
upon her, burning itself remorselessly into her
brain. She had risen, and was standing leaning
heavily upon a chair that stood near.
Long afterwards the picture haunted him  her
slight swaying figure, her dark head thrown
back, and her eyes still with a stunned
dreaming look in them, like some one who
has received a blow and has but half recovered
consciousness. She did not know what she
was doing ; her brain was in a horrible confused
whirl. For a moment, when he had
finished, she still stood motionless, and then
sank once more upon her chair.

There was dead silence, unbroken by any
word from Gilbert. He was leaning: back.

staring straight before him. He was indistinctly
aware that all was over, that he had
done what he came to do, made confession of
his guilt, and that nothing remained for him
but to go. He had not come to plead, he had
nothing to say in his defence ; he had come
but to do one thing, and he had done it. And
that being accomplished he knew he would
do best to leave her at once; that even his
presence was in some way an insult to her.
And yet how could he go with no farewell
taken, no word of forgiveness spoken for the
involuntary wrong he had done her  the
unwilling falsehood ? Never as friends would
they meet again ; he had learnt too deep a
(distrust of human nature to imagine that her
friendship, founded as it had been upon false
foundations  built upon a lie  would survive
the overthrow of those foundations, and the
shattering of her reckless baseless faith ; but to
part thus without a word  he could not do it !

And in the silence Eve was dumbly realizing
the truth, and realizing it with anguish
compared to which all she had hitherto
suffered seemed as nothing. This then was
the bar between them, of which she had so
often been dimly, painfully conscious ; it was
this which had clouded his life, made men
shun him, embittered his character ; it was no
false accusation as she had believed, no shameful
injustice, but  a sin. He had sinned, she
knew it from his own lips ; from no other
would she have believed it. As the first mist
of incredulity gradually cleared away, the
truth stood out  he had sinned. It was
done ; nothing could make it otherwise, no
human love could save him from his past, or
avail to remove the stain which lays, and
would lie to the end, terrible and ineffaceable
upon his life and name. She realized it, and
with the realization came the darkest hour in
Eve Carrington's life. To a pure soul the

shattering of faith in an ideal comes next
in misery to the shattering of faith in a God ;
reversing the text, it cries, ' Whereas I saw,
now I am blind ;' and in its darkness it gropes
at first in vain for light.

And yet with the very conviction of the
irrevocable and irredeemable hopelessness of
the case, there came a passionate pity for the
man she loved. Every other misfortune
might have been lived down, sorrow have
been worn out, suffering dulled by time and
use ; but a sin  a sin such as his had been 
would cling to him through life, dogging his
footsteps for ever.

It was scarcely 'Q minutes that they sat
there silent, but in that time her mind had
so adjusted itself to the state of the case that
it seemed as if she had known it for years
First had come the horror of the sin, the
sharpness of disappointment, the keen personal
sense of shame, as if she herself had been

guilty ; next the pity for the sinner ; and
last of all, crushing and overwhelming, the
realization of its consequences. For as she
recovered from the first shock of bewildering
pain, she recognised with cruel relentlessness
the consequences of a sin which the world has
agreed  unless the criminal has a sufficient
bribe to offer  to hold unpardonable ; and
e\en before her first horror and shame were
past she had ranged herself with unhesitating
uncalculating devotion on the side of the man
whom the world delighted to dishonour ; nay,
fir worse  whom it had reason and right on
its side for dishonouring. She saw his life as it
had been, and, alas ! as it would be to the end,
and saw it with a miserable sense of her own
utter helplessness to alter it; saw the steady,
cold, forgetful justice of the world whose
heel was on the neck of the man she loved ;
and in that moment when she first knew and
acknowledged, fully and despairingly, his guilt,

Eve Carrington's heart went out to him with a
passionate surrender, such as in all her confidence
of his innocence she had never felt.
At last he spoke.

'I must go. I have no right to be here.
And yet, before we part, it will be better that
you should hear the whole story. Xot that I
have any defence to make  there are no "extenuating
circumstances " '  he s-ave a slislit
bitter smile. ' I did the thing deliberately in
cold blood, knowing what I was doing, and I
was no boy. Still you may as well hear how
it happened ; it is the first time I have
told the story to any living soul. Will you
listen?'

She bowed her head, and he went on. It
did not take long to tell  the truth seldom
does in its simplicity  and he told it in plain
unvarnished lanouaofe, almost as if it had been
the story of another, with no attempt at
subterfuge or excuse. Perhaps there was

none to offer, perhaps he was too proud to
advance what there might have been ; more
probably, in the Hight in which his past was
just then bathed, the finer shades and degrees
of guilt were lost. When he had done he
paused for a moment, and then spoke again.

Have I convinced you ?' he asked, with
a curious smile  ' you believe it now ?'

Then at last she spoke, with a sob in her
voice.

I would to God it had been I who had
done it !'

It was the old unavailing longing to bear
the burden of all  even of guilt  rather than
see another weighed down under it.

" Would it were I had been false, not you !
I that am nothing, not you that are all " '

]3ut she had spoken under her breath, and he
did not catch the words. He went on

And now, before I go, Avill you add to
all that you have given me this  Avillfyou

forgive me  the man you honoured with your
friendship, believing  God knows why  in
his innocence, for having accepted it for a little
while on false pretences, knowing himself all
the time to be a criminal who, if he had had
his deserts, would have been a forcat? God
knows I never meant to deceive you, and
when at last  it was that evening, you remember
it, on the moor  when at last I
Guessed how it was, I could not tell you
the truth. I knead it would be only for a
little longer that we should be together, and
there are temptations  of which you know
nothing  which plead for pardon. When
bread is offered to a starving man, is he bound
to refuse it ? You will forgive me  will you
not  for not having told you at once that I
was guilty ?'

At last she found Avoids and voice.

'Guilty!' she cried; 'you are not guilty.
It is not what men have done that makes

them innocent or guilty  it is what they are.
Repentance is as pure and dearer in the sight
of the angels of God than innocence itself.'

A proud, melancholy smile touched his
lips.

'It is this earth we have to do with now
lie said ; ' and if you are right, then few of
God's angels walk it. And now good-bye.
God helping me, I will never look upon your
face or touch your hand ao-ain.'

A coldness as of death fell upon her. Once
more his face had darkened to its habitual expression.
He had again turned away, and
was looking before him. A breeze had risen
outside which rustled the leaves, and creeping
into the room, lifted the heavy hair upon
her forehead. Eve turned and looked at
him. His face was hard and set, one of his
hands lay clenched upon the arm of the chair.
As she looked at him she forgot her compassion.
It was not with his guilt or his innocence



that she was now concerned ; the past
was as if it had never existed. Half an hour
ago she had forgotten herself in the thought
of him ; but now he was the man she loved,
who was leaving her for ever, and her heart
was breaking. If he had been happy she
would have let him go  so she told herself.
But now  and yet what could she do?
for, alas, she knew that he did not love
her!

God helping me, I will never touch your
hand again,' he had said.

With a sudden movement she put out her
own and laid it upon his. The blood rushed
to his face.

Don't do that,' he said, in a low, rough
voice, not turning his head or looking at her ;
it is stained.'

The bird outside still sang loudly, deafening,
filling up the pause.

In another moment she had bent her head

and touched with her lips the hand where her
own had lam  then, as he started up with a
sharp exclamation, she was gone.

Eve,' he cried ; ' Eve !'

He had already reached the door, but
as his hand was on it he paused and turned
back. He went to the chimney-piece and
laid his head down on his arms. Perhaps
YQ  ten minutes passed, and still he stood
there motionless. When he lifted his face
once more, he had fought his battle and won
his victory.

He stood looking round at the familiar
room, the dark walls, the books littered about,
the flowers on the tables, the chair where he
had found her sitting half an hour ago-taking
leave of them all ; and then he went,
passing swiftly through the hall and out into
the hot afternoon. He had striven as never
before to see the right path, and seeing it, to
walk in it, and, like so many others, he saw

in the most difficult that which honour
pointed out.

Even now, little as he knew it, incredulously
as he would have treated the suggestion,
the opinion of the world was all-powerful
with him. Once more he bowed to
its verdict, said  Amen ' to its sentence, made
himself his own executioner to carry out its
decrees. Unconsciously, and at war with it ashe
had been, he had nevertheless adopted its
methods of judging, its vanities and severities,
even whilst he was in rebellion against them.
It was not so strange as it seems. Perhaps
we scarcely know how rarely it is that we
most of us care to look at a sin itself, how
almost invariably we view it in its manifold
reflections. The world holds up its looking-glasses,
magnifying or diminishing as the case
may be, and we judge not only of others, but
of ourselves, by the reflection rather than
by the substance, and adopt, almost unconsciously,

its selfish and arbitrary scales and
measures of guilt.

So it was with Gilbert Yersehoyle. With
him, all unaware of it as he was, the mirrors
of the world had done their work ; it was in
them that he viewed himself and his past, to
them that he was sacrificing, not only his own
future, but  as now he dimly guessed  that
of the woman he loved. Whilst her eyes,
purer and yet less inexorable than his, looked
straight at the sin itself, and so looking were
filled, even as we may imagine those of the
angels, with an infinite pity as, through the
sin and beyond it, they saw the sumner.

CHAPTER HI.

T was the day of Patricia's return.
Two days had ah-lady passed since
Eve had parted  as she knew,
finally  from Gilbert Yerschoyle.

Two days ! It is not a long time, and
yet much may be done in it; much built
up, more cast down. In those forty-eight
hours Eve had faced her position, and accepted
it. The early discipline of sorrow through
which she had passed had not been without
its effects, deep and lasting, upon her character.
She, as she was now, was the result and the
consequence of a grief, and of a grief not
fought against, but accepted, endured, and
VOL. II. 22

ALLEGIANCE.

conquered. Her sorrow for the loss of Harry
Courtney had been, it is true, no more than
the love of which it was the outcome and the
end, of the same nature as this which had
fallen upon her now ; it had been, compared
to it, rather like that of a child, deep and real
though it was, than that of a woman whose
capacity for suffering has grown with her
growth, and reached its full maturity and
strength. It had been simple also, not complex;
unavoidable, and laid upon her  so to
speak  by the hand of God and not by that of
man. But the habit of submission, however
learnt, is not easily nor lightly overthrown ;
and though at first it had seemed to be shaken
to its foundations, it had stood the test. Even
in her first crushing despair there had been no
taint or impulse of rebellion either against fate
or against Gilbert, its human instrument. In
natures like Eve's  above all else loyal  faith
in the person loved stands only second to faith

in God ; and notwithstanding the rude and
cruel shock that faith had sustained, it lead
come out of the ordeal triumphant.

It had been no lie, no plausible attempt at
a false consolation, but the simple and absolute
truth which she had spoken when she
told him that it was what he was, not what he
had done, that constituted, in her eyes, his
guilt or innocence ; and trying him by that
test  in ignorance perhaps, but at least in
good faith  he stood, little as he would have
anticipated it, obscurely as he guessed it
now, fallen still where she had placed him.
In this at least, whatever else had befallen her,
she was happy  that Avhat might have slits
tered the fabric of her love, as it would certainly
have been the bitterest drop in her cup
to have believed him to be unworthy of it,
had been spared her. Ah to the Ye>:t, she
faced, recognised, and accepted it.

He did not love her. In this alone she

9> 9





ALLEGIANCE,

was blind. It was impossible for her, singleminded
as she was, as yet to believe that, had
it not been so, he would have sacrificed them
both to an illusion which in her eyes would
have been but another form of homage to the
world he had defied, taking the form of self-sacrifice,
or to a mistaken sense of honour
which would be but a subservience to the
opinions of that judge which she, no less than
he, had agreed to set at naught. Such a course
of action was as yet incomprehensible to her;
she did not understand that the first blind,
upward step of the outlaw may be the recognition
of laws which it is the duty of the
citizen to resist, and, if necessary, to break ;
she had also to learn with what subtlety the
Adolf in his sheep's clothing escapes detection.
He did not love her  that was a settled question;
and, further, he had decided that their
friendship must cease, that between them this
position must stand as a barrier for ever. It

did not occur to her to question that decision.
Her instinct told her, it is true, that he
A\'as wrong ; she indistinctly felt that it was
founded upon a misconception, and rested
upon a false standard of right and an erroneous
theory of life ; that in his very search
for the right path he had gone astray. But she
(Ud not blame him; and, moreover, she knew
that against his decision there was no possibility
of appeal, nor did she desire to make
any.

The same trait in her character which made
lier gently self-reliant in forming and acting
upon her own judgments, made her slow to
seek to influence those of others. Even if she
ha 1 not loved him, she would have acquiesced
in his sentence, as she had been prepared to
acquiesce before; and, loving him as she did
now, consciously, absolutely, and devotedly,
her very love bound her hands, and left her
]powerless to make another step, to speak

another word to bring him back. With a
stillness which, if it bore the stamp of resignation,
was not unallied to despair, she saw
him go, knowing that the chapter of her life
which his presence had filled was closed and
done with for ever ; and, whilst half stunned
by the greatness of the blow, she bent her
head milder it with no thought of resistance.

Patricia had returned in good spirits. She
was pleased with herself and with her prospects,
and was disposed to be content with the
world in general. She went so far, in her good-humour,
as to bestow some'umvonted caresses
upon Kit, who, having been dressed bj Marie
for the occasion, and torn for the purpose from
some favourite occupation, was indisposed to
respond to them, and made no effort to conceal
his ennui.

Are you going away again soon ?' he inquired,
freeing himself as soon as possible,

with a bored attempt at making conversation ;
Whilst he gave an exhaustive survey to his
mother's dress, which was new.

Do you want me to go ?' asked Patricia,
more amused than hurt by the want of cordiality
in her son's reception.

No, I don't care, unless Marie went too,'
replied Kit indifferently. ' I can go now,
can't I?'

'What it is to have an affectionate son!'
observed Mrs. Ross, laughing, as he ran off.

That child has no more heart than ' she

broke off for want of a simile, and did not
recur to the subject. She had, in fact, matters
more interesting to discuss than the state of
Kit's affections.

Her marriage was not to take place at once.
Lord Ralston was by no means an impatient
lover, and for reasons connected With business
it had been settled that the wedding
should be postponed till the beginning of the

new year, an arrangement with which Mrs.
Eoss had no fault to find.

It is just as well to have a little delay''
she observed to her sister, discussing the subject
with her usual frankness. ' It is not as if
we should see much of each other in the meantime
 it is in those cases that a few months,
more or less, may make a real difference.
I think myself that people should never meet
ii'om the day they are engaged till the' do at
the altar  if they mean the affair to come off,
that is, and are both of them above twenty.
As it is, four months more of liberty, with
one's prospects assured, are, I do not deny it
pleasant. I never thought a sudden marriage
desirable, any more than a sadden death.
One wants some preparation for both.'

'You put them in the same category?'
asked Eve listlessly.

In a way. All the great events of life
bear a certain resemblance to one another.

Marriage, however '  with a laugh  ' has the
advantage over birth and death, that it admits
of a rehearsal, which neither of the others do
  a dress rehearsal, too ! I remember all that
happened dien I married Robert, and I hope
to be able to avoid some of my mistakes.'

'Do you think one ever does?' asked Eve
absently. The two were alone in the 
after dinner, Miss Duke having
discreetly withdrawn.

*Does Avhat?' asked Mrs. Ross. 'Avoid
one's old mistakes ? I hope so, I am sure,'
with a laugh. ' For example, I shall not goto
the same dressmaker again  if there is to
be a mistake about the matter it shall, at
least, be a different one. Oh, I think we can
set some of our past errors right.'

Were they ours?' said Eve, rather
dreamily. ' How far back do we reach? what
is ourselves?' Her thoughts had Wandered
from her sister's light talk to the changes that

life works, the transformations it effects, not
outside but within us.

The past seemed to her just then like a
spiritual morgue where our dead selves lie
j-ide by side in ghastly rows. Which, she
wondered, should we claim  have we a right
to any, and if to any, to which ? or is it best
to shut the door and creep away, leaving the
poor corpses unopened and alone ? And yet
the words recurred to her with a shudder 
I believe in the Resurrection of the dead :'
all those corpses will rise to confront us.

'What is ourselves?' she had said. She
Alas thinking of that past which now seemed
so remote, so dead and cold, side by side with
the present in all its vividness and reality,
tilled with one single idea Which blotted out
all the rest. Was it herself, she wondered
confusedly, that figure' that stood among the
dead years, calm and serene, tranquil alike in.
its love and its regret, equally removed from-the

touch of passion or the anguish, of despair,
which had become visitors so familiar to her
of late. The long strain of the last ten days
was telling upon her ; her brain felt bewildered
and confused, but Patricia's voice recalled her
to herself.

'Are you well. Eve?' she asked, rather
uneasily. ' You have not been ill without
letting me know ?'

Xow that she Alas at leisure to observe her
sister, she thought the ii'irl changed, though
she scarcely knew how to define the alteration.
She had always been quiet, but had
she been quite so listless, so still before?
Had not her eyes a new expression under
their heavy lids. An unwelcome suspicion
occurred to her, as she suddenly recalled the
passage in Eve's letter, which had disquieted
her by its reference to Mr. Yerschoyle.
She did not, however, at once mention his
name.

Have you been well?' she repeated, bending
forward to take a closer survey of the
girl's face.

Quite Avell, thank you,' answered Eve,
completely recalled to the present, and turning
to take up her work with a sort of impatience.
It was a few minutes before Mrs.
Voss spoke again.

By the way,' she said carelessly, though
she kept her eyes upon her sister as she asked
the question, ' you mentioned Mr. Verschoyle
in one of your letters. Did he call ?'

Yes,' said Eve. She went on steadily
with her work, but she made a wrong stitch.

Ah, he did? It was ill-judged of him. I
should not have thought  though, as you
know,' laughing lightly, ' my opinion of him
is not high  that he would have been the man
to presume upon such an introduction as his
to force his acquaintance upon you.'

Eve had lifted her eves and looked at her

sister. Not a trace of colour lead come into
her face.

He did not come uninvited,' she said. ' I
asked him.'

Something in her manner, quiet though it
Alas, arrested the exclamation which had risen
to Patricia's lips, and forbade her to put anymore
questions or to express the disapprobation
she felt. She was troubled and baffled.
That there had been something peculiar,
something more than a common casual acquaintanceship
in the relations of Eve with
her own former lover, ]airs. Ross was certain,
whether guided to her conclusion by instinct or
by something in the girl's face, but as to what
it had been she felt completely and wholly at a
loss. To whatever the chancre in her sister
was due, of one thing she felt sure  that it
was not happiness which had worked it ; and
set if they loved each other, what stood
between them? After a short pause, curiosity

getting the better of discretion, she spoke
again.

And now that  against my advice, remember
 you have prosecuted your acquaintance
with Mr. Gilbert Yerschoyle, do your
former rather rash conclusions still hold good?
Do you still persist in believing him, in
the face of the rest of the world, to be innocent,
or have you come round to my views?'

She spoke with something not unlike a
sneer in her voice, gay though it was; but,
looking' at Eve, she regretted her words. A
change had flashed over her face, not the less
significant because the features remained at
rest, and the colour scarcely wavered. It was
a change intangible, not to be described in
words, but yet startling even to Patricia's
careless gaze. A new gleam lit the blue eyes,
a new ring was in her voice as she answered.

Come round to your views !' she repeated.
'God grant I may never do that!'

She stopped short. It was not for want of
words. For once, scorn and contempt had
risen up and mastered her. A strange unaccustomed
wave of anger, of indignation and
sorrow, swept over her heart. Xot only did
she see in Patricia the woman who had thrown
Gilbert over, who had lied to him and deceived
him, but she stood also before her as
the incarnation of the world who was his foe,
who had degraded and scorned him; and withall
the gathered force of repression and silence
the torrent was sweeping her away, urging
her. if not to his vindication  since that, alas,
was impossible  at least to avenge him, to lay
bare to Patricia the littleness, the inconceivable
inferiority' of herself to Gilbert, the man
she had dared to insult, whom she had
'weighed in her balances and found wanting.

Yet even at that moment came a change ; as
"the words were on her lips ready to be poured
out, they died there, whilst shame, keen and

sudden, laid hold of her. Was it possible
that she who should have known better, she
Who loved Gilbert Verschoyle, should so have
forgotten herself  nay, forgotten him  as to
have been on the point of being betrayed into
making his defence, should have fallen so low
as to have been ready to reproach this shallow
worldly woman on his behalf? Was it for
her to break the silence he had chosen to
keep ? In that moment she felt so absolutely
one with him, so stained by his guilt, so much
a sharer in his disgrace, that she poured contempt
upon herself for the impulse to wdiicli
she had so nearly yielded, as if it had been a
personal Wrong that she had been prompt to
resent, a personal insult that she had been
ready to avenge. Pride, of which on her own
behalf her gentle and noble nature knew so
little, woke within her for the man she loved ;
and for his sake she was silent, triumphing
over her swift indignation, and crushing back
the expression it would have found.

As Patricia gazed at her in astonishment,
her face changed. When she spoke again she
Alas calm and collected as ever, and her tones
not much colder.

Lady Courtney is coming back to Mace
to-morrow she said, as if no word of Gilbert
Aerschoyle had been spoken, and she was
taking up the conversation where it had been
left off. ' Cyril called this morning to tell
me, and to ask us to go and see her next
week.'

Patricia accepted with alacrity the change
of subject, and alluded no more to Gilbert
Yerschovle ; though not the less did she intend
to prosecute her investigations on the subject
when opportunity offered. For the present,
however, she had to own herself defeated, and
Miss Duke, whom, with some caution, she
interrogated, did not throw much light on the
subject. AVitli more astuteness than would
have been expected of her, but which is some-vol.

II. 23

times to be found in the most simple of
women, she reflected that if, as Eve had told
her, Mr. Yerschoyle was coming no more, it
was not necessary that Mrs. Ross should know
how frequent his visits had been, and that at
least it would be well that the girl should
make her own communications to her sister
with regard to them. She therefore, whilst
answering Patricia's questions with the most
transparent openness, and a candour which
defied suspicion, managed to convey little to
Mrs. Ross's mind beyond the fact, of which she
was already in possession, that Mr. Yerschoyle
had been an occasional visitor at Portions
in her absence. It fortunately did not occur
to Patricia to make inquiries of her son,
from whom she would probably have gained
as much information as, for the purposes of
pursuing her investigations, she at present
required.

ND how do you expect Norton to
get on without you, for four
months ?'

Cyril Courtney asked the question as he
drove Eve home one afternoon when, some
weeks later, she had been spending the day
with his mother. It had, as his words implied,
been arranged that the girl was to leave
home for a time ; she. had, in fact, agreed to
accompany her sister abroad for the months
that were to elapse before the marriage of
the latter took place. Patricia, who, not unnaturally,
had begun to find country life somewhat
dull, had suggested the plan, and Eve,

more or less to her surprise, had accepted it
Without raising any objections.

You want a change,' Mrs. Ross had said.
You are looking much too pale. Come to
Nice with me and get back the colour into
jour face ;' and Eve had yielded without a
demur  perhaps she too thought that she
wanted a change.

Patricia was relieved at her sister's acquiescence,
but she was at the same time confirmed
in her suspicions that something had
occurred which made the girl willing; and
ready to leave the neighbourhood, for she had
never found her very accessible to persuasion
on the subject before. Cyril had been less
submissive. In his consternation at the intelligence
which Mrs. Ross had first imparted
to him, he had, indeed, been more communicative
than in a cooler moment he might have
been prepared to be ; and it was mainly owing
to the influence she had brought to bear that

he had not endeavoured at least to obtain a
distinct pledge from the girl before letting her
go. But to this Mrs. Eoss was eagerly
opposed. With her suspicions aroused,
though still vague and unformed, she did her
best to convince him that the present occasion
was not a propitious one to try his fortunes.

I wish you well, believe me,' she said,
with more earnestness than was customary to
lier, with regard to affairs in which she was
not herself directly concerned ; ' and it is
because I do that I say let her alone for a
time. Aly should you be so impatient?'

I don't think that is a fair charge,' said
Courtney. ' As men go, I think I cannot be
accused of impatience. But there is a limit to
everything.'

At any rate, leave things alone just for
the present. She is not in good spirits just
now  she is nervous, I think, and depressed,'
rather impatiently. * Surely you can see that

ALLEGIANCE.

for yourself. I am advising you for your
own good.'

*Do you mind my shutting the window ?'
said Courtney, crossing the room as he spoke
the interview was taking place in the
drawing-room at Norton  ' the wind is cold
to-day. Now coming back and looking at
her keenly, ' will you be good enough to tell
me whether you mean anything special by
your warnings? It would seem at first sight
that your sister being nervous and depressed
scarcely furnishes a sufficient reason for my
deferring asking her to marry me. Do you
know anything that you are keeping from
me ?'

For a moment Patricia hesitated. What
would be the result should she communicate
her fears to the young man ? Would it
do good or harm? She decided, however,
almost at once on silence. If Eve were to be
coerced she knew her well enough to be sure

that it would not be by open opposition, but
by diplomacy ; and in his present mood of
irritation she felt that Sir Cyril was not to be
trusted.

I know nothing,' she said. ' What should
I know ? Yet I think you would do best to
be guided by me.'

Sir Cyril had yielded, but he had not felt
satisfied or at ease. He had not been without
this own miso'ivinos since his return to Mace.
He, no less than Patricia, had been conscious
of a certain change in Eve, slight, intangible
and indefinite, but which still made itself
distinctly felt. It was the barrier set up
between them, though he did not know it, of
au experience which was colouring all her life
and its horizons, of which he knew nothing
and, more, with which it would have been
impossible to him to sympathize. Such
barriers it is that divide friends whom no
injuries nor angers nor resentments could

part. Of its existence Courtney was dimly,
impatiently aware, although absolutely ignorant
of its cause.

This afternoon, as he drove her home and
did his best to talk in his usual way upon
indifferent subjects, he was watching carefully,
though covertly, for any indication which
might lend him a key to the mystery.

How do I expect Xortons to get on without
me ?* she answered, repeating his question
with a faint smile. ' I think wee are all
apt to overrate the difference our presence or
our absence makes in the world. It is so
big and we are so little.' She was talking
somewhat at random, and Cyril laughed.

I don't think our relative sizes have much
to do with the question,' he said. ' Besides,
the world, our world, is not big. We are forever
knocking our heads against its walls or
brushing up against unwelcome acquaintances;
and besides, it is always getting smaller. Ah,'

breaking off and shivering, as, turning a corner,
they were met by a blast of Yind, ' I wish we
had brought the brougham.' He wrapped her
shawl closer round her with his disengaged
hand.  Are you not cold ?'
Xo,' she said.

She was looking before her, her slice as
white and still as if it had been cut in stone.
He glanced at her with a thrill of passionate
irritation. He knew that, close to his side
as she was, he was as remote from her as if
miles lay between them  she was scarcely
even conscious of his presence. He felt for a
moment a wild desire to rouse her, no matter
how. In his present mood he could have
better borne that she should be angry with
him than thus absolutely, gently indifferent.
Another moment, however, and he had
mastered himself.

What were we talking about ?' he said.
The smallness of the world, was it not ? It

is perfectly true; there is no room for a poor
fellow to lose himself in it now, even if he has
the best reasons for Ravishing to do so. You
can never feel sure you have seen the last of
anybody.'

Can't you ?' Eve looked at him with absent
eyes, as he paused for an answer.

sever. I met a man the other day who
told me it had been his chief object for years
to lose sight of his family  they were such an
unpleasant lot  and he never could manage it.
At last he went out in desperation to Colorado,
and the very first year he was there he had to
go and sit upon an inquest or jury, or something
of the kind  some inquiry that Alas being
held to make out Whether a man had been
properly murdered or not  that is all they
look at there ; it seems there is a proper and
improper Away of sticking a knife into you 
and lie found the victim was a cousin of his
own. He said it Alas such a shock to his

nerves  the idea, I mean, that he might have
met him walking about alive only a clay or
two before  that he really couldn't be hard
upon the fellow who had put him out of the
way, however he had done it. I believe he
got him off scot-free, and pensioned him for
life. After that he said he made up his mind
it was no use fighting against fate, so he gave
it up as a bad job, and came home. He has
turned quite a domestic character now. I met
him last month at Harry Late's, and I really
shouldn't have known him again. He has got
a wife, and a baby which he takes out in its
perambulator.'

You stayed with the Rates a month, did
not you?' said Eve. She had been only half
listening, but felt the necessity of saying something
as he stopped.

More than a month  yes. Rate is married
too, you know. All my contemporaries are
settling down in life. He seems to like his

wife. / shouldn't. I told him so ; but it
annoyed him, so I didn't repeat it. She looks
about fourteen. I always had to remember
not to tell her she had forgotten to put on her
pinafore. She makes up, however, for her
youthful appearance by assuming the airs of
a well-worn woman of the world  a female
Rochefoucauld in fact  and deals in cynical
remarks about virtue. If I were Rate I should
box her ears, but he doesn't seem to mind. And
so '  after a pause, and with a complete change
of manner  ' you are really going next week.'

Eve looked up with a curious startled expression.


Next week ?' she repeated. ' Is it next
week ?'

You should know best. I thought so,' he
said. His nerves were strainer, and he spoke
with a jar in his voice, as if it was an effort to
keep his temper. ' Is not the nineteenth the
day you were to start?'

*I did not remember  that it was so soon
She 2:ave a short shivering sio'h. Was it
indeed so? Averse there only five more days
before she was to leave Norton s  to leave
England ? Five more days, and then her last
chance of seeing Gilbert ao-ain would be over.
She had once more forgotten Cyril ; but he
was obserraig her closely', all his suspicions
confirmed by her manner, though as to what
it pointed he was as much in the dark as
ever.

Is anything the matter, Eve ?' he said
rather sharply. ' If, after all, you do not wish
to leave home, there can be no reason why
you should go.'

She looked round at him, her eyes darkened
by a look he had never seen there before.

I must go,' she said.

Again he felt that the look and the words
pointed to something below the surface, of
which he did not hold the key. With an

effort he regained his self-control, and spoke
more gently.

Is it that something has gone wrong?' he
asked ; ' and if so, will you not trust me?'

For a moment Eve wavered. Should she
indeed tell him, Cyril, her dearest friend, her
only close friend, the truth ? For once the temptation
to shift the burden which, borne alone,
was so intolerably heavy, on to the shoulders
of another  to be free at least from the weight
of solitude which oppressed her, was strong;
she had almost opened her lips to speak, when
there flashed across her memory the words
which he had used concerning Yerschoyle,
on the only occasion on which his name had
been mentioned between them, and that recollection
sealed her lips. Yet he was waiting
for an answer, and something must be said.

Oh, Cyril !' she cried, under her breath.
Life is difficult, and it is hard to see the
way.'

Have (sall found that out ?' he asked. ' I
thought life was a smile matter to you.
And you Avill not let me help you ?'

You could not help me. There are
troubles which must be faced  like death 
alone.'

He drew his breath quickly.

And you are facing this one  alone?'

She understood the meaning which underlay
his question, and flushed deeply.

Alone,' she answered.

They drove on in silence, never broken till
they reached Xortons ; and he drew up at the
door, and helped her down.

Here you are at last I' said Patricia, asa
minute later, the two entered the drawing
room together. ' General Cartwright has
been waiting to wish you good-bye.'

The visitor had risen and come forward.
For a scarcely perceptible space of time, Eve
paused upon the threshold, a curious expression

flashing across her face ; then, advancing,
she touched the old man's proffered
hand. Xo one had noticed the momentary
hesitation.

I am sorry he should have waited,' she
said, replying in her low, even tones to her
sister.

Oh, I could not let you leave the country
without making you Mrs. Cartwright's farewells
and my own,' said the General, with
somewhat ponderous cordiality, quite unconscious
of the double meaning underlying
her words, and only thinking  as, for that
matter, he had thought before  how cold the
ofirl's manner was. ' Your sister encouraged
me to hope you would be back before long,
even though '  with a laughing glance at
Courtney from his shrewd old eyes  ' it was
from Mace that you were expected. And weare
really to lose you for the rest of the
year ? How people run about in these days !

It is really the exception when they stop at
home. My wife keeps me safely there, poor
thing !' added the General, with a sigh, partly
due to his vife's illness, partly perhaps to its
results.

Is she better ?' asked Eve.

She had sat down and drawn off her
gloves, and was proceeding to pour out the
tea, which had just been brought in. Cyril,
snatching her, was surprised at the hard look
her face had taken  again it was one which
he did not recognise. She had never looked
towards the General since she had first
come in.

Better ? Well, when was it I saw you
last ? She has so many ups and downs,
poor soul ! Ah ! about a month ago, was it
not?'

About a month ago,' assented Eve
mechanically.

She had been lifting a cup, but her hand

VOL. II. 24

shook, and she put it down again upon the
table.

I remember now,' went on the General
garrulously. ' Yes ; it was the da}- you had
young Yerschoyle here on business. I hope,
bv the way, you are not going to let him
have that bit of land which lies near his
gates? I always distrust ladies in business
matters ; and his father was for ever at poor
Carrington to get it into his hands, and never
succeeded. It made quite a coolness between
them at one time ; but though Yerschoyle
was a friend of my own, I confess I was not
sorry he was beaten. He was too fond of
setting everything his own way. Your uncle
stuck to it, at all events. I remember hearing
him say that he had never parted with an acre
in his life.'

Cyril had turned to answer some observations
of Mrs. Ross's : but, catching the drift
of the General's discourse, he glanced at Eve

with some vague suspicion for which he
could not have accounted. The girl's head
was, however, bent over the tray, and her
voice betrayed nothing unusual.

No ; he told me he had never sold any
land since he came into possession of Norton,'
she answered quietly. ' Will you have some
tea?'

Thank you,' taking it absently from her
hand. ' By the way, Courtney, did you see
Yerschoyle on Friday at the meet ?'

Yes,' said Cyril, rather curtly.

He is his father's son after all,' went on
the old man, chuckling. ' Little Hicks
Dempster, the fellow who has just bought old
lil ward's place, came up to him  evidently
meant to be kind, you know, and set an
example to the neighbourhood, which has not
received Dempster himself over - cordial' 
like his insolence, a little wretch who sleeps
all day and drinks all night. I was standing

242

a few yards off, and saw it all. Yerschoyle
was perfectly civil, but he sent Dempster
about his business as if it had been he who
had been the forger instead of the other. I
was never more amused in my life. I am
sure I don't approve of Yerschoyle myself,
but it served the little wretch right for trying
to patronize a man who is a gentleman, if he
is nothing else.'

Cyril scarcely answered. He had been
watching Eve intently. A moment later he
rose.

I must go,' he said, with an odd tone in
his voice ; 4t is growing late. Good-bye.'

He shook hands as he spoke, and left the
room. He never remembered how he quitted
the house. He did not know that he stumbled
over Kit, who, as usual, was crouched on the
floor in the hall playing marbles, and who
rose, rubbing his shoulder and looking after
him, muttering a word presumably learnt

from Joe, the stable-boy. The dogcart was
standing at the door, and he got into it.
taking the reins from the man who was holding
the horse, and drove off, all like a man ina
dream, oppressed by some strange, incomprehensible
nightmare. Surely it must be a
delusion  it could not be true  and yet how
the knowledge had come to him he knew not ;
but this he knew, with a certainty for the
time as complete and crushing as if her lips
had spoken it, that, impossible as it seemed,
however and through whatever disastrous
chain of circumstances it had come about,
Eve Carrington loved Yerschoyle ; Eve,
whom his dead brother should have married,
whom he himself had for years loved in vain,
Eve loved a man dishonoured and disgraced
a man with a stained name and a ruined
character. For a time he was almost stunned
by the unexpectedness of the blow. At last
he roused himsel

ALLEGIANCE.

1 will not give her up,' he said to himself,

between his closed teeth. ' Love Verschoyle

or not, she is not engaged to him, and I will
not give her up

HY, Eve, you are not going to
church ?' asked Patricia, looking
up with a shiver from her armchair
over the fire, as her sister entered the
drawing-room ready dressed. It was Sunday
afternoon, and the day before they were to
leave Xortons.

Although October was scarcely half over.
\ inter was come upon them. A bitter black
frost had set in for the last few days, making-mrs.
Ross rejoice openly in the prospect of
quitting Norton and seeking a more genial
climate.

Yes,' said the girl. She took up a plaid

lying upon the sofa, and went out, whilst
Mrs. Eoss returned with a shrubs: of her
shoulders to her novel.

She will kill herself one of these days,'
she said, contemplating the prospect, however,
with sufficient equanimity. ' I wonder
what is the matter with her. I never saw a
girl look so ill, and yet she is never quiet.'

It was true. Foreign as was restlessness
to Eve's nature, it was as if a new spirit had
taken possession of her of late. She had
wandered about the autumn woods early and
late, climbing the moor, and returning after
dark drenched and dripping ; taking long
walks and longer rides. Only in one direction
her steps were never turned. Except when it
was necessary she should visit Mace she never
went in the direction of Yerschoyle's home ;
never went where it was possible she might
meet him.

To-day she was going to Thornton Church,

lying about a mile and a half off, across
meadows, and through a pine-wood. It had
long been Eve's frequent custom to resort
there on Sunday afternoons ; and to-day  her
last day  she could not stay at home. She
felt her courage failing, ebbing away from her.
Once gone, it would be better ; so she told
herself with feverish asseveration. She would
at least have left behind her the associations
of the summer, which were ever rising to vex
her with their vain and tormenting importunity
; once away, surely she would begin
to forget. Here, how could she help remembering,
when the hour came round that had
been used so often to bring him? The very
rooms, the moorland, the woods, the garden,
were all haunted by his shadowy presence.
She was impatient to be gone. If only the
wrench were over  if only, too, it could be forever
 and she need never return to take up
the same old life aoain.' So she thought

ALLEGIANCE.

as she walked through the sharp biting
air.

Thornton Church was one of the few which
the tide of modern innovation had not as yet
reached. Old, grey, and time-worn, it stood
nestled among the surrounding hills, still safe,
without and Within, from the hand of either
the restorer or reformer, with the ivy clambering
unchecked over its walls, and the grass
growing rank and green among the moss-grown
tombstones below. Within, too, all was
tranquil and slumberous. Here, on Sundays,
the rector, a fragile old man with a serene,
not unspiritual face, read the prayers slowly
and monotonously, as he had read them for
the last thirty years ; here the same old
hymns were chanted, inharmoniously enough ;
and here, Sunday after Sunday, he ascended
the pulpit to preach, in his black gown, one of
the time-honoured discourses with which the
least attentive of his hearers were familiar,

whilst they listened sleepily or slumbered
below.

To-day the grey old church was darker
than its wont ; less light than usual made its
way through the narrow, deep windows. Eve
sat in a seat alone  there was no inconvenient
crowding at Thornton Church  her hands
clasped on her knee, her eyes vacantly fixed
on the opposite tablet, which recorded where
and when Martha, the beloved wife of James
Allison, had entered into rest. ' There
remaineth therefore a rest '  the words
caught her eye, and entered dreamily into her
senses. What rest ? She, too, was tired,
very tired.

She did not hear much of the sermon ;
perhaps she had not heard much more of the
prayers. When the service was over, and she
came out, one of the last of the small congregation,
a small fine snow was falling from
the leaden clouds overhead. One or two of

the poor people who knew the girl by sight,
glanced at her, surprised at her presence in
such weather, so far from home ; but she did
not notice them, as she turned down the lane
that led away from the village towards
Xortons. The light was fading quickly, and
she knew she must make haste if she would
reach home before dark. She walked rapidly
on till she had reached a small wicket-gate
which led to a short cut through the fir-woods
; but, as she turned towards it, she
started and stood still with a quick gasping
breath, for, leaning on the gate, as if waiting,
his colles lying at his feet, was Gilbert
Aerschoyle.

For a moment neither spoke, as, with
clasped hands, they stood silently facing one
another. It was he who broke the silence.

I came to meet you. I remembered you
sometimes came this way. I came to say
good-bye.'

Yes,' she said.

She had withdrawn her hand and passed
into the wood, and, turning, he was slowly
walking by her side.

I could not help coming,' he said, as if excusing
himself to some unseen monitor. ' It
was not possible that we should part so. I
heard you were leaving home, and when you
return I shall be gone.'

'You are going ?'

She scarcely spoke above her breath.

Yes, I am going. If it is cowardly I
confess it  I own myself beaten ; but I could
not have lived here. I must find a new life 
since one must live. Did you not once say
that there are always possibilities in life? It
may be true; at any rate I will try to find
them  one can but fail.'

What is failure ?' she said dreamily.

Ah, that is the question !' he was speaking
rapidly, perhaps to hide the unsteadiness of

his voice. ' Before I met you I thought I
knew  I would have sworn I could have given
as good a definition of it as most men ; but
now I am not so sure which way it lies. At
any rate I am going to try. You will wish
me good luck  in the name of the Lord ?'

She smiled, a curious mechanical smile,
but she did not answer  perhaps she had not
heard.

You are leaving Sandmoor ?' she asked,
lifting her hand for a moment to her brow as
if bewildered.

Yes, and for always. No half-measures
would do. I do not know yet where I shall
go  perhaps to the Colonies ; but at all
events I shall never return there.'

She was silent. She could not have spoken.
Till then she had not known what her hopes
had been, that she had hoped at all. But
now that they were to part for ever, that the
sentence was, as it were, irrevocably passed, a

sort of physical numbness crept over her, confusing'
her senses. A thick veil hid her face.

o

The snow in tiny hard balls fell upon her
dark dress, and pattered almost like hail
among some hollies that skirted the path.
After a pause he went on, striving for his
ordinary tone.

So, as we are to part, I laid wait for you,
that we mioht have one more walk together 
our last. There were one or two things I
had to say  requests to make ; it sounds like
a death-bed, does it not?' with an mirthful
laugh. ' You will hear them, will you not,
and remember that the Hying  parting, after
all, has an element of death in it  claim a
right to ask what the living may not.'

She bowed her head, never speaking, A
little breeze got up and crept down the path.
She shivered as it met her.

You are cold,' he said, bending to wrap
the heavy plaid, which had got loosened, more

closely around her. ' How could they let you
come so far? Yet I will not quarrel with
them since it has given us our meeting.
How silent you are to-day! I have scarcely
heard your voice.' He stopped, and then
went on quickly. ' To come to what I had
to ask. Will you  do you mind giving me,
nov that I am going away, a parting gift 
something of yours to help me to remember
you ?' He was still speaking in the same
half-jesting tone.

She paused a moment, standing still in the
path; then suddenly drawing off her glove she
took the ring  Harry Courtney's  which still
shone on her left hand. To both of them had
come the memory of their last sunny hour
when, half in earnest, he had asked her whether,
at his request, she would discard the symbol
of her former love. She had hesitated then ;
but now, unasked, she drew off the ring and
held it out to him.



'What  that?' he said, moved, almost
startled, though reading her action but in
part. Only dimly he guessed that she was
sacrificing to him, recklessly and for no
return, not the present alone, but the sacred
peaceful memories of the past. Through him
she knew that she had never loved Harry
Courtney. For a moment he did not take it.
I did not mean that  now. I only meant a
flower, a ribbon, anything. Are you sure
that if I take that, you will never be sorry
that you gave it?'

 I shall never wear it again,' she said,
laying it in his hand.

He turned abruptly away. He was cursing
himself  telling himself that he had been a
fool, a madman  worse  to come, to seek this
interview. His strength was ebbing away
with every minute that passed  his face was
white and set, his breath came hard.

I had no right to come,' he said hoarsely.

VOL. II. 25

 Eve, why do you not reproach me ? why do
you not tell me I had no right to seek you ?
Yet there are things too hard to require of a
man. I could not let you go without seeing
30 u once more. When we parted  when you
left me that day,' his voice was husky and
broken, ' I swore  you remember it, Eve 
that I would never look upon your face again,
God helping me. He has not helped me. I
have tried to keep that vow, and I ha\;e
failed. I have kept it for three weeks,
to break it at last. I am glad that it is
broken ; it was an impossible vow. I must
have seen you once again, if it was only to
tell you that before I knew you I had lost my
faith in man's charity and God's forgiveness,
and that you have given them both back tome.
Bad though I may be, I am a better
man for having known you. If after all, late
as it is, I save something out of the wreck, it
will be to you that I owe it.'

She looked up, an illuminating gleam flashing
over the pallor of her face.

 Then I have not lived in vain. Whatever
my life may be, I thank God for it.'

The words fell from her lips but unconsciously
; she was speaking to herself
rather than to him. She Alas still wrapped
in a mist of bewildered pain. She did not
understand. That he was leaving her she
knew ; he had told her so again and again,
asking nothing from her but a remembrance,
a parting gift. And yet what was the meaning
of his hurrying broken words, of his face,
and of the eyes Which even now sought hers ?
She was in a thick cloud through which one
fact alone penetrated with clear, cruel distinctness
 that he was leavings her  that this was
their farewell. Yet, now, as his words reached
her, telling of what she had done, what she
lead been to him. for one brief moment a ray
of pure helpless gladness pierced the gloom.

252

Whatever might betide, whatever suffering
she might yet undergo, this much was certain,
that since his words were true, since it was
thus with him, she had not lived in vain.
Perhaps never had her self-annihilation, her
.elf-easement reached a point so absolute and
complete as at this moment when, because
]her life had been of service to him she felt
that it had not been wasted, and for that
reason alone  not because of joy that had
been or mioht be hers  she thanked God that
she had been born. He went on.

And now tell me something in return.
Tell me if it is possible  and I know you
cannot lie  tell me that my prophecy has not
been fulfilled, that now that we are parting,
now that we shall never meet again, you do
not reproach me, even in your heart, for
having taken you at your word, and accepted
your friendship ?'
His voice was urgent ] his eyes, compelling

an answer, were fixed on her. A pale smile
parted her lips.

That was a promise,' she said. ' I have
kept it.'

Again silence fell upon them. They were
nearing the end of the woods ; a few minutes
more and they would gain the field that
divided them from the high-road. As they
reached the gate which opened into the
meadow, he stopped.

Then here we part,' he said.

She, too, stood still, leaning heavily against
the gate; but she made no answer. He spoke
again.

 Lift up your veil,' he said ; * let me see
you once more.'

Silently she obeyed. What did it matter
what he mio-ht read in her face  what dido



anything matter ? Pale and mute she stood
before him, and he looked at her long and
steadily, as if he would engrave her face on

Ills memory, line by line, trait by trait. It
had changed since first it had opened a new
world to him ; his heart contracted as he
noted the stains under the beautiful eyes, the
droop of the patient mouth, the intangible,
subtle seal that suffering had set upon the
brow, the weary languor of the slight figure.

You are tired,  he said unsteadily, looking
down at her with a great yearning at his
heart, yet not touching so much as the hands
which hung clasped together before her.

She looked up with a long gasping breath,

So tired,' she answered, ' that I would
willingly lie down and sleep for ever.'

He turned sharply away. His love at last
was getting the better of him, breaking down,
his defences ; but again he was wrestling nth
it, striving to crush it down. He leant on the
gate, staring straight before him, the snow
driving in his face. All was profoundly still,
except when now and then a branch cracked

overhead, or a squirrel sprang* from tree to
tree. He knew now, as he had known before
deny it to himself as he might  that she
loved him, and knowing it, he was saying to
himself at last that to part with her thus 
with only the assurances of broken words, of
half - understood looks, between them  this
was what no law, human or divine, should
compel him to do ; nay, more, he was recognising
at length, slowly and indistinctly still,
and as if by flashes, that the law to which he
had been ready to sacrifice her no less than
himself, that, namely, of the world's so-called
honour, had been a false and lying one,
dressed up in the garb of truth. Whatever
might be his past, his guilt in the sight of
God, his dishonour in the eyes of men, she
loved him, and by virtue of that love it was
to another master than the Avorld, a higher
law than that to which it bowed, that they
should fall or stand. Yet none the less was

the struggle sharp, the victory uncertain ; pride
in the disguise of honour was making its last
obstinate stand.

He turned and looked at her. She was
standing, her hands clasped together like a
child at its prayers, her eyes lifted to his face
with a dumb appeal, which now as ever was
to him, not against him, and full even now of
an unquestioning faith. That look decided
him.

Eve,' he said, ' you love me.' It was not
so much a question as the simple, grave statement
of a fact.

Yes,' she answered; nothing more.

He gave her a long look ; then he sighed.

 Come, then,' he said.

The snow fell thicker and thicker, the bitter
wind blew unheeded in their faces, as he bent
and kissed her.

And you would have left me  because of
that.f' she asked him a few minutes later. She

knew all now  the meaning of the struggle,
the cost of the victory  but yet she could
scarcely understand it ; so dim and strange
was it to her comprehension that what
weighed so little with her in the balances
should have been so nearly all-powerful with
him. 'You would have left me for that ?'
It was scarcely reproach that was in her voice,
rather a sort of wondering surprise.

Does it seem to you so little ?' he said.
Ah, Eve, do you know what you are doing?
What had you done to life that it should have
thrown me in your path ? No,'  as she
would have interrupted him  ' no, you must
hear me out this once. AVhat had you done
to life, you white soul, that it should have
thrown me in your path  a man who not
only bears a stained name, but who has the
brand of his disgrace stamped on his life and
character? Listen to me, Eve: it was not only
because of the world's condemnation and the

world's sentence that I Avould not have won
you. That was enough, but there is worse
behind  it was because of what it had made
me. Eve, surely you know it  something of
it, at least. One virtue, at least, I may claim ;
1 was never a hypocrite. First the sin, then
the punishment  they have both left their
brand upon me, and it will never be removed.
When I look back at myself  I have sometimes
done so of late  as I Alas that morning,
the day I did it  it was the twenty-fifth of
May, and the lilacs and laburnums were out
in the Oxford gardens  and then as I am
now, I wonder that I ever dared to touch
your hand ; I wonder I dare to dream now
of calling you my wife. I never knew what
I had done, never realized what it had made
me, till I knew' you loved me, and that I had
nothing left to offer you but a stained name
and a ruined life. Eve.' he went on bitterly',
as if in spite of himself, ' my father did his

best to ruin me, body and soul, and but for
you he would have succeeded. If I had been

given only one more chance, if ' he broke

off. ' After all, it is a poor thing to lay the
blame of one's failings on other people,' he
said, regaining his self-command, and with
it his ordinary manner  ' it is an error I have
not been guilty of before ; but still, you do
not know, you cannot guess, how inconceivably
hard, how almost impossible it is not
to fall to what men believe you  what you have
given them the right to believe you to be
He paused ; when he spoke again his voice
had once more changed. ' There, will you
go ?' he said softly. ' I have warned you 
will you not be wise and go?'

She only pressed the closer. A smile that
Alas at once tender and sad displaced for a
moment the hard lines round his mouth.

No ?' he said ; he put his arm round lor
and drew her close ; * then have your way.

Yet bear me witness that I have warned
you.'

You have finished ?' she asked. She had
lifted her head ; a soft triumph lit her wet
blue eyes and rang in her voice. ' I have
heard you out, and now listen to me 
let me speak now. I would rather bear
your name stained than any other spotless.
I would be prouder to share your life, ruined
and disgraced as you tell me it is, than any
other man's living. " Your people shall be
my people, and your God my God." '

He attempted no further remonstrance. She
had conquered. There was a long silence. At
last he spoke, with a certain urgency in his
voice.

Eve,' he said, ' I know that you love me.
Can you tell me that you trust me, too ?'

She looked up at him for a moment in
silence, then, lifting her face, she kissed his
lips.

After God, you,' she said.

Half an hour later they were walking;
slowly back towards Xortons. It was late
and dark, and Mrs. Ross at home was looking
at the uninviting atmosphere outside, and
wondering, though still nth the freedom from
undue anxiety which characterized her, what
could have happened to her sister.

It is most unwise and imprudent of her,*
she said to herself, as she turned away from
the window  in which perhaps she was more
right than she kncAv.

They had not hurried themselves. It was
to be their parting, and their parting for three
months. Gilbert on this point had been firm.
Nothing was to be altered of Eve's original
plans. She was to go abroad with her sister
the next day, as arranged, he remaining*
behind ; and for the three months that she
was to be absent no one was to be informed

of what had passed. He would not even
admit that a definite engagement existed
between them. Only on her return, should
she still be willing to marry him. after four
months of absence and reflection, would he
allow it to be announced. These were the
terms of his surrender, and hard though
they were, Eve had no alternative but to
submit.

And you understand,' he said  ' you understand
that you are free, absolutely free ?'

Absolutely free,' she repeated after him,
with a smile which, wistful as it was, had a
shade of mockery in it. ' I will remember.
What else have you to tell me ?'

My temper is bad,' he said, half serious,
half laughing. Again she smiled.

'' Yes,' she assented, ' your temper is bad.
<jro on.'

'What is the use?' he said. 'You are
determined to run on your fate.'

You have found that out at last ? Oh,
Gilbert !'  they had reached the lodge-gates,
and he stood still ; she knew he would come
no farther. Her smile died away. ' Must
we part?  it is hard. Four months is so
long !

He did not answer at once. He was
struggling with the temptation to give way
to himself no less than to her ; but he
conquered it.

Yes he said.  In this, at least, I am
sure I am right. You must go. and go free.
See, I give you nothing  ask nothing from
you  no promise, no pledge. I keep your
ring  that was a parting gift  and I shall
keep it always, whatever happens  the ring-that
other man gave you.' For a moment
his face darkened. * Eve, tell me,' he said
abruptly  ' you loved him ?'

I thought I loved him,' she said, very low.

He smiled, crushing down, though not

without an effort, the unreasonable retrospective
jealousy.

Well, never mind he said ; ' at any rate,
whatever comes after, you have loved me too.'

Too ?' she repeated, faltering. ' Too ? Oh,
Gilbert, it is not that. I did love Harry, but

this is different. If you were to die '

she broke off, her face blanched by a sudden
terror.

He laughed, though not quite steadily.

Why should I?' he said. ' I, at least, am
not too good to live, and I have scarcely had
a day's illness in my life. I used to think the
probability of a long life a doubtful blessing,
but now '

And so you will give me nothing?' she
said, a little later. ' Ah, I have one gift, at
least, of yours. Do you remember it  the
reliquary ?'

The memory of the day when he had given
it to her flashed across him.

You will marry the for cat after all,' he
said, with a smile that was a little forced.

A few minutes later she was making her
way alone up the avenue, under the great
trees where she had parted from him the day
that he had been insulted in her house. A
proud and sweet smile touched her lips,
though the tears were still wet upon her face,
as she remembered it. She knew that, as far
as in her lay, she had repaired the insult.
In her presence General Cartwright had refused
him his hand. She had given him,
had voluntarily, almost unasked, laid at his
feet, all that she had to give  herself.

VOL, ir. 26

NE morning, about five weeks after
Eve had left England, Sir Cyril
was disturbed, as he sat smoking
in his study, by a visit from General Cartwright.


It was still early and an unusual hour for a
call, especially from a visitor of the General's
punctilious and formal habits; and it was with
slight surprise that Cyril rose to meet him,
coupled with the sense of having been taken
unawares and interrupted ; though, had the
young man been obliged to give an account of
the nature of the occupations in which he had

been encored, he would not have found them
easy to specify.

Cyril had been changed of late, though the
difference might not have been apparent to
any but a close observer. His temper had
been more irritable than usual, though it Alas
at all times apt to be uncertain, and his face
had grown to wear an expression both
harassed and anxious, which his mother noted
With secret uneasiness, though with rare discretion
she had refrained from commenting
upon it.

He had been, in fact, perpetually haunted
by the recollection of the discovery which he
had believed himself to have made concerning
Eve Carrington before her departure. Pie did
not, it is true, regard what he had then
believed himself to have learnt as a certainty',
and the more it receded into the distance the
more improbable  almost impossible  did it
seem that his conjecture should have been

2G~-2

well founded. He had striven to convince
himself that he must have been mistaken, had
told himself again and again, with angry
iteration, that he had no proof, that he had no
grounds to go upon save his own vague impressions,
and that the very idea that she
could have given her heart to such a man as
Yerschoyle was dishonouring to the woman
he loved ; yet try as he might to resist
it, crushed down as it seemed at times, the
conviction remained, in spite of all his efforts,
in the background of his mind, and always
awaiting its opportunity to thrust itself upon
him in unexpected moments, that Eve loved
Gilbert Yerschoyle.

And yet were it so, supposing that it were
true that she cared for him, how was that fact
to be reconciled with others? what was the
explanation of the present state of affairs?
What possible object could there be in a concealment
which, as he knew, was so alien and

foreign to her whole character? It was not
shame that deterred her from an avowal 
that, knowing her, he knew ; still less, if she
loved him, would worldly prudence avail oi
weigh in the balance to make her hesitate to
marry him, mistress of her own actions as she
was. Was it possible that he was indifferent
to her? Cyril dismissed that supposition at
once. But then, what could the explanation
be ; and what was the cause of the trouble
Which, on the very day that stood out so
darkly in his memory, she had told him, in
answer to his question, that she was meeting*
alone ? Assail and ao;ain as he reviewed the
circumstances, so far as they were known to
him, he had to own himself baffled. When
she came home  so he told himself  then he
would be able to judge, if not before. For
in the meantime one practical question suggested
itself to him perpetually for solution 
namely, whether he should or should not

follow her and her sister to Nice, to try his
fortune there. It was this last question
which he was considering, deeply and
anxiously, when his meditations were put an
end to for the present by General Cartwright's
entrance, and he rose, as has been
said, with a sense of interruption, to meet
him.

I ought to apologize for disturbing you so
early,' said the General, as he came forward
and took Courtney's hand ; ' but you must
excuse me, for I am come upon business, and
I knew I should be more likely to find you at
home at this hour than later. The fact is, I
have had a most annoying letter this morning,
and thought it best to come off at once
and see you about it, especially as you are
concerned in the matter no less than myself

Indeed !' said Cyril. He imagined the
General's communication most probably bore
reference to some county business, and was

not unduly excited. He, however, veiled his
annoyance under elaborate politeness. ' Pray
sit down. I hope you do not object to the
smell of smoke ? I did not, as you say,
expect a visitor so early, but I shall be
delighted if I can be of any use.'

I told you the matter I have come about
was as much your concern as mine,' said the
General, with some surliness, but taking the
chair his host had pushed towards him.
 You will read the letter for yourself, of
course ; but perhaps it will save time if I give
you the substance of it first. These lawyers
are so long-winded it is difficult to a plain
man to come at their meaning. It is from
Trench, poor Verschoyle's lawyer, you
know.'

Yes,' said Cyril, looking up sharply.
Coming upon the reflections in which he had
been engaged when interrupted by the
(General, Yerschoyle's name alone was sufficient

to set his nerves on edge. ' What
does he write about ?'

Well, it is an awkward business. It
seems there was another will  everybody
thought it so unaccountable that there should
not have been one, you know. Why,.
Verschoyle was not a man to talk much about
his affairs  I never knew anybody closer 
but he had hinted to me what were his intentions,
and I was never more taken aback
than when I found how it was left  that poor
little girl and all '

But you say that there was one, after all ?
asked Cyril, recalling General Cartwright
somewhat impatiently from his personal
reminiscences. The General's fussy garrulity
was always trying to his temper, and to-day
he found it particularly insufferable. ' Unless
it is forthcoming, I fear no hints that Mr.
Verschoyle may have let drop will be of much
avail in a court of law.'

Of course not,' answered the General
rather shortly, nettled by the young man's
manner. ' I was only mentioning a fact which
tends to bear out the statement Trench now
makes. He asserts that there was another
will. He made it out himself. Yerschoyle
had come up to London to see him about
adding' a codicil, or something the kind 
quite an unimportant alteration, Trench says
when he was taken ill. Trench had seen
him, and got it signed only the day before.'

Then what became of it ?' asked Courtney.

That is the question. Trench deposes to
its having been in existence and in Yerschoyle's
possession the day before he was taken ill. The
next day he had the stroke, you know, and he
died two days later.'

Who was with him ?' asked Courtney.

Ah, that is the thing,' said the other.
Nobody but a servant was there when ho
was taken ill, but young Yerschoyle was sent

for. He only arrived just before the death ;
his father never knew him. I heard all that
at the time. Trench knows nothing about the
circumstances after he left him, with the will
duly signed. I am afraid it's a bad business.'


The two men looked at each other.

Then you mean ' said Cyril.

He did not finish his sentence, but Cartwright
answered as if he had.

AVhat else can one think ?' he said. ' He
is the only man whose interest it could be
that the will should disappear, and it did disappear.
Of course, if he had been of unblemished
character, it would be a totally
different matter, but things being as they
are '

I know,' said Cyril.

Hating the man as he did, there was still
something repulsive to him in thus listening
to an accusation brought against him behind

his back, unanswerable as it might be. And
yet  if it were so ? He turned and spoke
sharply.

If Trench was in possession all the time
of the facts he now produces, why has he not
spoken sooner ? It must be six months since
the death took place.'

Ah, he explains that said Cartwright.
He was ill himself at the time, and it was
only at Yerschoyle's special request that he
went to see him. It was the last piece of
business he did before he broke down
altogether. He gave up the week after, and
lias not been allowed to touch a paper since 
till just now. Went abroad, too, I think he
says '  glancing over the letter  ' yes, a long
sea voyage.'

 To what effect was the will ?' asked Cyril.
Does he mention that ?'

'Yes; it was just what might have been
expected. He cut his son out altogether  

left him without a penny, except his mother's
fortune, which he had always paid over to
him. Everything was to go to Dorothy,
with you and me as joint guardians and
executors. Here, you had better look over
the letter yourself It cost me a good hour's
work this morning to make out what the
fellow meant ; he takes such roundabout ways
of saying it.'

He passed it to Courtney, who read it carefully
through before he returned it.

What do you propose to do ?' he asked.

That is what I came to consult you about.
Look at it which way you please, it is a
confoundedly awkward business. Of course,
there is just the possibility that Yerschoyle
may have changed his mind at the last
moment, o one who knew him would
believe it ; but no matter. My own idea is
that the straightforward thing to do is to goto
Yerschoyle himself, ask him the question

straight out, and see if he has any explanation
to offer.'

Explanation !' said Cyril. ' What explanation
can there be? If your suspicions are
true, he will simply deny all knowledge of the
business. It is the only thing he can do. A man
who forges and cheats will not stick at a lie.'

Still he ought to be asked,' persisted the
General. ' He ought to know what he is
accused of. Of course it will remain for the
lawyers to say what steps, if any, can be taken
in the absence of proof that Verschoyle himself
did not destroy the will in the twenty-four
hours that elapsed between the time Trench
saw him and when he was taken ill. I know
nothing about these matters. Still it seems
to me we have no right to give up Dorothy's
property, or the guardianship of the child
either, to a scoundrel like her brother without
making sure that it is impossible to reclaim it.
Of course one could do the business by letter;

but I think the manly thing is to go and seethe
fellow, and question him to his face. That
is what I meant to ask you to do. I have the
carriage here now  why not come on at once ?
We should be more likely to find him in the
morning, and it is always well to get a disagreeable
business over.'

Courtney hesitated, glancing toward the
Window. It was a cold, raw day, and a
drizzling' rain was falling.

Are you in a close carriage ?' he asked.
The question was partly prompted by a
genuine desire for information, partly to gain
time. Under any circumstances he would
have detested the office General Cartwright
wished him to assume; but, regarding Yer-school
as he did, in spite of himself, as the
man in whom, to say the least, Eve took an
interest, and as therefore occupying the position
of his own rival, it was specially repugnant
to him to be called upon to take an

active and, as it were, judicial part against him.
Had Lis former suspicions been verified he had,
it is true, entertained the idea of o:oino to
Verschoyle, of insulting him to his face, of
telling him that he was unfit even to associate
with Eve Carrington in any degree whatsoever,
and that by winning her affections
clandestinely he had acted in a manner which,
though it might have been expected of him,
was a course which no man possessing a
remnant of a sense of honour could have
brought himself to pursue under his circumstances
; and of charging him openly with
having traded upon her inexperience and
ignorance of the world. Such was the course
that commended itself to his nature, alike
weak and violent ; but to go to his enemy in
General Cartwright's company, and to confront
him calmly and judicially with an accusation
relating to one crime, whilst bound to
be silent concerning another which in his eyes

was of so much graver proportions ; to be
obliged to treat the man he hated with civility
and courtesy, was antipathetic to him in the
extreme. Yet he felt it must be done.
Whilst General Cartwright, with sublime
scorn for the effeminacy of the young men of
the present day, was explaining that he had
come in the brougham, he had made up his
mind that the thing could not be shirked.

Very well he said. ' Yes  I believe you
are riorht. I will come.'

o

:5 * * *

At the time when, unknown to himself,
Gilbert Yersclioyle was the subject of discussion
between General Cartwright and Cyril
Courtney, unaware of the clouds which had
gathered over him, he was sitting in his
library", engaged in cleaning his gun, and
reflecting meanwhile upon affairs in general
and his own in particular.

Things were at last going well with him, so

he thought. He was ready to acknowledge
that he had despaired too soon of life and its
chances, too soon given way to the conviction
that the past was irretrievable. He would
find a way to retrieve it  so he told himself,
with a new hopefulness springing up within
him  and if not, Eve was ready to risk it,
and she should have her way. After all she
might be right; there were better things than
the world's approval, a higher tribunal which
might acquit or cancel the sentence where it
condemned.

Since Eve's departure, he had passed his
days in the same monotonous routine as before,
reading, shooting, riding ; and always as before
alone, except for the occasional companionship
of his little sister or the casual visits of Mr.
Erskine, with whom he had insensibly grown
to be on familiar if not intimate terms.

The winter had set in early, and a sharp
frost had put an end to hunting, throwing"

VOL. II. 27

him thus more than ever on his own resources
; but if the days seemed to lag and
the long dark evenings to lengthen themselves
out unconscionably, he no longer rebelled
against the life he was leading. There was a
limit to it now, a term set to the period for
Which it was to last ; at length, for the first
time for years, he was not without something
towards which to look, and he was happy,
though like others he misnamed his happiness,
and called it expectation.

For the first time Eve had that day broken,
not indeed the letter, but the spirit of his
stipulation that no correspondence should
pass between them during her absence. It
was a hard condition, but he had adhered toit
steadily ; he would not draw her, irresponsible
as she was to anyone but herself for her
actions, into what might have had the
semblance of a clandestine correspondence.
But that mornings had brought him not a

letter, but a box of great purple violets, still
fresh and sweet. No note had accompanied
them  so far she had obeyed him ; ]put he
Avoid not have needed her hand writ whig on
the address to tell him from whom they came.
He had smiled as he opened the package, and
for the first time had wondered whether his
conditions had been necessary, and wavered
in his resolution to carry them out faithfully.
Mio'ht he not, at least, send her a word in
acknowledgment of the gift ? It was as he
Alas asking himself the question, half smiling
at the irresolution to which he was so little
accustomed in himself, that the door was
thrown open, and Sir Cyril Courtney and
General Cartwright were announced.

Gilbert rose to his feet, and stood facing his
guests with a vague presentiment of evil,
What could have brought them to his house 
the man who had insulted him and declined
his acquaintance, and the man who had sys

97 2

emphatically ignored him whenever, as had
more than once happened, chance had brought
them face to face  the man who was Eve's
lover ? Even in his first surprise, it was
this last thought that had pre-eminence ashe
looked at Cyril. Was it possible  the
idea flashed across his mind, unreasonable
though it was  was it possible that his presence
now had anything to do with her ?
Had any rumours transpired concerning himself
and Miss Carrington ; and if so, by what
right had these men come to interfere ? His
face darkened as the suspicion crossed his
mind. Whatever the right or the wrong of
the matter might be, whatever had been his
own doubts and his own miso'ivincj:s, no man
living should come between him and the
woman he loved. The thoughts passed
through his mind with the quickness of
lightning. He had risen as they entered, but
had neither spoken nor offered his hand, only

bowing with stiff formality. He could see
that the General was nervous, and that even
Courtney's manner betrayed some embarrassment.
For a second none of the three spoke.
It was the master of the house who, after that
momentary pause, broke the silence.

May I ask to what T owe the honour of
this visit ?' he asked, looking from one to the
other.

Cartwright answered.

We have called upon you  Sir Cyril
Courtney and I  Mr. Yerschoyle,' he said,
upon a painful errand.'

He paused again. Gilbert never spoke.
He was standing facings the men whom hei
Instinctively felt to be his enemies, leaning
one hand upon the table, and looking full at
them with his straight, direct glance.

I received a communication this morning,'
went on the General, ' which made us feel it
our duty to come and ask if you had any

explanation to offer of the circumstances to
which it refers.'

Again he stopped. He had been hitherto
speaking the words with which he had come
prepared ; but he found the situation more
embarrassing than he had anticipated. Gilbert's
whole aspect  his very bearing and
manner  made it more difficult than he had
expected, angry as he was with himself for
being thus influenced, to tell him to his face
that he was suspected of a base and dishonourable
fraud.

You had better read the communication to
which I allude,' he ended abruptly. ' You
will see for yourself to Avhat it refers.'

He handed him the letter. Gilbert took it
in silence, feeling a faint relief as he glanced
at the first lines that it had evidently nothing
to do with Eve  that her name at least was
not to be brought forward. That being so,
he was fairly indifferent as to what else it

might contain, or so he thought as he looked
through the first sentences, referring chiefly
to the causes which had kept Mr. Trench
hitherto silent. But as he went further, his
face changed. In absolute silence he read it
through, slowly and deliberately, from end to
end, word for word, without haste or hurry,
then folded it up and returned it to General
Cartwright, still without comment.

'Well,' said the old man impatiently, 'you
have read it  what have you got to say?'

soothing,' said Gilbert. 'I have no explanation
to offer.'

He was no looser looking; at them, though
the eyes of both the other men were upon him,
but vacantly down at the ground ; he spoke
mechanically in a voice curiously devoid of
tone and expression. He was, in fact, almost
unconscious of their presence, as if a blow had
been dealt him, leaving him stunned by the
shock. And yet he realized, vividly and completely,

the whole case in all its bearings : the
loss of the will, however it had happened 
that signified little ; the natural, almost necessary,
inference ; his own character, his own
past, rising again to condemn him. And all
throughout, as he read the letter, as he now
stood confronting his accusers, in the background
of his mind Eve had been present
to his consciousness almost as if in bodily
presence; he saw the very quiver of her mouth,
her blue eyes, heard his own voice telling her
that after all he had been right  she wrong.
How sweet the violets were !  where had she
gathered them?  he was sure that she had

gathered them herself . . . she General

Cartwright's voice roused him. Scarcely ten
seconds had passed since he had spoken.

What do you mean ?' he asked. ' You
have nothing to say, no explanation to offer ?
Surely you understand, Mr. Aerschoyle, painful
as it is to me to say so to your father's

son, that unless the matter can be cleared np
very grave suspicions must rest upon you.
You do not imagine that Sir Cyril and
myself, who you will perceive were made
trustees under the will to which mr. Trench
refers, can allow the matter to rest where
it is.'

Sir Cyril Courtney and yourself will, of
course, take what steps you think fit. I
repeat that I have no explanation to offer.'

He had pulled himself together at General
Cartwright's tone and words, and spoke with
quiet indifference not untouched With contempt.
Courtney, who had not spoken or
taken any part in the proceedings till then,
came a little forward. He had been watching
the scene with keen absorbed interest.

 Was no one else with Mr. Yerschoyle ?' he
asked.

Gilbert for the first time turned to him.
As he did so there was a slight chase in his

manner, as if it cost him an effort to maintain
his tone of cold courtesy.

No one but a servant. Perhaps you would
like to question him ?' Without waiting for
an answer he rang the bell. ' Send Jenkinson
here,' he ordered the man who appeared
in answer to it.

There was a silence. Again Gilbert had
relapsed into his own reflections ; again Eve's
shadowy presence was beside him  he could
almost feel the touch of her soft hands.
Ao'ain he heard himself asking her if to her
love she added trust  the trust that no one
else had given, and listened to her low vibrating
tones as she answered, 'After God, you.'
Yes, she had trusted him ; she

The door opened and Jenkinson entered,
and stood waiting for orders. Gilbert turned.

These gentlemen have some questions to
put to you, Jenkinson,' he said.

He turned away, and stood leaning against

the chimney-piece as if it was a matter with
which he had no concern.

'After God, you.' AVould she trust distills
or would she believe that he had followed
up the single damning sin of his youth by
one as cowardly and treacherous, and which
lie had, moreover, kept concealed from her ?
Xo, he knew her too Avell to give the disloyal
suggestion so much as a passing harbourage.
She would trust him still, though never asrain
should he hear her tell him so  though she
should marry the man who had come to
accuse him  to insult him to his face  she
Avould trust him still ; he knew her. What lie
had told her himself she would believe 
nothing more. .

He was only dimly conscious that Cartwright
was putting Jenkinson through a close
cross-examination. When it was over, and
the man had left the room, the General
addressed him again.

' You see your servant bears out Trench's
statement,' he said. ' He recollects the
lawyer's visit, and was, in fact, himself one
of the Witnesses of the codicil to which
Trench refers.'

Gilbert bowed, making: no comment.

Have you nothing to say ?' went on the
old man. ' Even now, if you would speak out,
it might be arranged . no one has any
desire to make a scandal '

Gilbert interrupted him, raising his hand
with a slight imperative gesture.

I have told you already that I have
nothing to say he said. ' Shall we consider
the matter closed?'

It was a dismissal, and so the other men
felt it. General Cartwright rose at once, and
took his leave with cold civility. He had
already turned away when Cyril came forward.
He had been puzzled and perplexed throughout
the whole interview. Something in

Gilbert's bearing, in the whole manner and air
of the man, disagreeable, almost offensive, as
it had been, had, in spite of himself, shaken
his conviction of his guilt, whilst it had gone
far, also in spite of himself, to strengthen
another conviction. Xow that he had been
brought face to face with Gilbert Yerschoyle,
it no longer seemed to him so impossible, so
unnatural, that in spite of the character he
bore, in spite of his damaged reputation and
his undoubted antecedents, Eve should love
him. It was characteristic of his impulsive
and not ungenerous nature that the very facts
which made Yerschoyle a more dangerous
rival, attracted rather than repelled him 
giving him an ashamed sense, genuine if transitory,
of having taken the part of the strong
against the weak, and struck a man who was
down. He held out his hand.

Good-bve ,' he said.

Gilbert looked full at him for a moment,

then without seeming to see his proffered
hand he bowed and turned away. Cyril
coloured hotly as he followed General Cartwright
out of the room.

It's a bad business,' said the latter, as they
drove away from t\\e house. ' Of course he
did it it is as plain as a pikestaff. To do
him justice he does not deny it ; but his
father's son and all  it's a bad business.'

You feel sure he is guilty ?' asked Sir Cyril
absently. Still smarting from Gilbert's rejection
of his hand, he did not, nevertheless,
feel so sure as the General appeared to be.

Sure? I wish I were not. I wish there
could be any doubt about the matter ; but it
seems to me that it is as plain as facts can
make it. And yet it is curious  the fellow
looks like a gentleman, and behaves like one
no bluster about him  his father's son allover.
Well, we must write to Trench and
ask his advice as to what is to be done.'



He sighed as he relapsed into unusual
silence, which Cyril made no effort to break.
He was still wondering, as he went over the
past scene again and again in his mind, what
was the meaning of it all. Was it innocence
or effrontery  the two opposites which wear
the same livery?

HEN his visitors were gone, Gilbert
remained still and motionless.
Half an horn*  an hour  passed,
mid found him leaning his back against the
chimney-piece in the same attitude. The gong
sounded, and he roused himself to send word
that he was busy and would not go in to
luncheon, relapsing, as the door closed upon
the servant, into his former abstraction.

Yet he was scarcely thinking consciously
of the blow Which had fallen upon him with
such unexpectedness. He was thinking
neither of the future nor of the present ; he
was not, indeed, conscious of definite thought

at all, as he sat leaning his head upon his
hand and looking into the fire ; it was rather
as if a variety of images, bearing no distinct
relationship to what had just taken place,
were passing in dreamy succession through
his brain.

In all of them Eve was the central figure ;
Eve as he had seen her first, on the occasion
of Patricia's final rejection of him, though he
had scarcely noticed her at the time ; then
parting from him at Mace on the day that he
had driven her there. He saw her as if it had
been but yesterday, standing in her white
dress in the yellow afternoon light, as she
wished him oood-bve. Then again, she was

O 1' CD '

asking him on the moor to go and see her 
extending to him once more her soft right
hand of pity and fellowship. Why had he
yielded? he asked himself, with unavailing
remorse ; why had he not abided by the
instinct which had prompted his refusal? It
VOL. 11. 28

-was there that he had been guilty of his first
fatal mistake. He remembered her blind
unfounded confidence in his innocence, unsuspected
at first by himself, recalling the day
when it had at last been borne in upon him,
and when yet he had gone from her leaving
her faith un shattered ; her face rose before him
when at length she had learnt the truth of his
guilt. He remembered with a tender pride,
her loyalty since; and, last of all, their parting
in the wind and snow.

And now  what now? He forced himself
at length to turn to the future. It had been
there, lying, as it were, latent in his consciousness,
all the time, though he had refused to
look at it, lingering over those images of the
past, across which, nevertheless, its shadow
fell. But he could put it away no longer ; at
last it must be faced, and from the first, from
the very moment that he had read the lawyer's
letter and had realized the position, as he

Avould have realized it even if he had not seen
his accusation written in the face of the men
who confronted him, he had known what that
future must be. Strange though it may seem,
from the first resistance had never occurred to
him, nor any endeavour to clear himself from
the suspicion which rested upon him and to
assert his innocence. Opposition and defiance
had indeed been the rule, the habit, of his life ;
but this last blow had been too unexpected
and overpowering, and he was only conscious
of a dull acquiescence. He scarcely so much
as resented the accusation, accepting it rather
as a Mahometan accepts the decrees of fate, and
with something of the same spirit of submission,
foreign to his character and to his habits
as such a submission was.

The strange inconsistencies of human nature
are so glaring that they always startle us,
-although they are so common that it would
be more reasonable to be astonished by their

282

opposite. The courageous have their element
of weakness, and it only depends upon the
moment when that element obtains the upper
hand whether they shall be branded as
cowards for ever ; the gentlest have their
moments of passion, when, like Moses, they
may give the lie to a lifetime of patience.
To Gilbert there had come one of those
sudden and strange transformations, such as
make the brave man a coward, the honest a
liar. The bow had been tightened too long,
and now at last it had snapped.

For eleven years he had been at war with
mankind, fighting his way through life with
a dogged determination not to be beaten,
opposing to the mistrust for which he had
given just cause a proud and stubborn defiance
; but now all at once, taken unawares,
at the moment when life was for the first time
brightening before him, the clouds which had
overshadowed it lifting, and brought face to face

nth a false accusation, he suddenly dropped his
weapons and surrendered, without a struggle
and unconditionally. At last he allowed that
fate, whom he had defied, was too strong for
him. In the very moment that he had
imagined her to be conquered, or at least
propitiated, she had risen to assert her power,
and at length he bowed to her. A sullen
submission had replaced his former defiance ;
the fight was in vain ; he owned himself
conquered.

Perhaps, had he stood as before, alone, it
mio'ht have been different ; he mio:ht still
have carried on the struggle. It was, above
all, the recollection of Eve which unnerved
him and took away his power of resistance.
By a strange contradiction the very thought
which had been before the source of his
strength, which had lent him courage  a
courage caught from her own  to defy the
world and to oppose to its enmity, not, as

formerly, a proud contempt, but the more
powerful armour and defence of a hope  that
thought was now become all at once the
occasion of his weakness. It was for her that
his courage failed him ; at the thought of
what might lie before her that his power of
endurance, his nerve, broke down.

He recalled, sitting alone in the darkening
winter afternoon, his life as it had been for
the last eleven years; and as incidents almost
unnoticed at the time sprang into vividness,
each carrying its special significance and sting,
and each an earnest and a prophecy of what
was to come, for the first time he shrank back
from the prospect of the future.

He knew it must be faced, but it should be
faced alone. No other, least of all the woman
whom he loved, should be involved in the
ruin of his life. Alone he Avould know how
to meet it  would know how to live down
even this new accusation -, but not with her ;

not with the consciousness that every bloAv
struck at him glanced aside to her, that
each slight or insult found its way past him
to her. It was true that, for a brief moment,
under the influence of her fearless faith, he too
had imagined that the past might be retrieved,
the future redeemed ; he had, seeing with her
eyes, caught a glimpse of another world  a
realm of recaptured possibilities, where the
bondmen of this world and of its opinion
mioht shake off their fetters and o free under
a higher lav and a purer government ; but it
had vanished like a dream. This new blow
had come to open his eyes, so he thought, to
the unreality of the vision.

I could not do it,' he said, rising at last,
and leaning; diis elbows on the mantel-shelf
I am rio'ht. but even if it were not so  rioht
or Avrong, I could not face it. There are
things beyond a man's power of endurance.'

It was true. It was no longer a case of

rio'ht and wrongs. In the overstrained and
morbid condition in which he then was, a
future, as he pictured it, shared with Eve
Carrington, held a positive terror for him,
from which, cowardly or not, he recoiled with
a shrinking dread.

It was late in the afternoon when he sat
down to write to her. That, at least, must
be done at once. He was feverishly impatient
to close, as it w-ere, his accounts, and to have
done with his reckoning with the past.

It was the first time he had written to her,
except one short note which had accompanied
a book he had lent her in the early days of
their acquaintance. How little he had
thought, even a few hours ago, that his first
letter would be such a one as this ! He remembered
it, as he took up the pen and began
rapidly, With no preface.

I am writing to you to say good-bye,' he
said. ' After all, I was right. You had persuaded

me that the past might be retrieved,
and the future redeemed ; and for a moment
I, too, thought it possible. But I know now
that it was not possible  that it was merely a
dream with which we deluded ourselves
because we loved each other. I know now
that the past must dog my footsteps through
life ; and it is only by having my eyes opened
in time that I have, by (hod's mercy, been
saved from letting it dog yours too. I need
not tell you all the circumstances which have
brought me to my senses  you will hear
them soon enough from others. The believe
that I have followed up my former sin by
another  a more cowardly and treacherous
one still ; and I cannot disprove their suspicion,
neither can I ]:lame them for it. It
has. at least, come in time to show me that
the future of which we have dreamed is an
impossible one, and so far it is well. For ourselves,
nothing; remains but to sav Brood-bye.'

ALLEGIANCE.

So far he had written rapidly, and without
pausing to consider or weigh the words
as they suggested themselves ; but now he
stopped, and. laying down the jen, leant
back in his chair. He was resisting the
temptation to tell her something at least of
what that farewell meant to him ; to say that
in it he was taking leave of all that made
life fair or endurable ; that in the Avorld of
thorns, and briars, and thistles to which he
was of his OAvn will banishing himself, her
presence would go with him ; to assure her of
his unchangeable fidelity. But yet he would
not write the words ; not one syllable would
he say that should in the days to come, even
in imagination, bind her to him by the
spiritual bond of an enduring and mutual
faith ; not one word would he write that
should stand between her and future happiness.


In this at least, whatever were his faults

towards her. he was brave. He would not
set her free in letter, to keep her bound to him
in spirit ; he would rather strive, loyally and
honestly, to erase himself from her life so far
as might be. It was his plain duty, and he
would perform it, whatever it might cost him ;
nay, more, whatever at the time it might cost
her. He would not attempt to give her
present comfort at the cost of future happiness.
Yet five  ten minutes passed before
once more he took up the pen, and his mouth
was set and hard as he Avrote the next words :
What I said to you once before I sav
again  it is not infidelity to forget ; and if
happiness comes  as I pray God it may 
receive it kindly. For myself, I shall leave
England at once. I do not yet know where
I shall go ; but I shall have left this place
before you receive this letter. For the rest,
I cannot begin to tell you what you have
been to me; neither can I talk of gratitude

between us. The fewest words are best. God
bless you.  Gilbert Verschoyle.'

In a hastily added postscript, he asked that,
as before, what had passed between them
should remain unknown; and then, sealing
the letter, he directed it, and gave it to betaken
at once to the post. He would not
trust himself. Once more he was alone, when
the door opened, and his sister timidly
entered.

What is it ?' he asked, turning at the
sound. ' Ah, Dorothy, is it you ? Do you
want anything ?'

 I came ' she beo-an, then breaking: off

as, approaching nearer, she caught sight of
his face. ' Are you ill, Gilbert  what is the
matter  has anything happened ?'

111 ? Neo,' he answered, rather impatiently.
Why should you think so ?'

 I don't know  }ou look ill,' said the
child uneasily. ' Has nothing happened ?'

He did not answer at once. He had risen,
and gone to stand over the fire ; and for a
minute he was silent whilst he reflected.
Should he tell her what was the matter ? had
she not, child as she was, a sort of right to
hear it from himself? Of course, she must
know soon. He would rather, it was true,
that somebody else had told her. It was
wearisome ; he would have preferred to go
without an explanation, leaving it to others
to explain the matter to her in any way they
pleased ; it was nothing to him what view of
the subject she might take, what construction
she might put upon his silence ; but, still, since
it had so fallen out that she had asked him the
question, he would not refuse to answer.

Something has happened,' he said, after
that brief review of the situation. ' Perhaps
I had better tell you myself. It seems my
father did spake a will, after all  such a one
as might have been expected. By it he left

all his property to you, and you yourself to
the guardianship of General Cartwright and
Sir Cyril Courtney. This will was never
found, as you know, and they accuse me of
having made away with it.'

He had made his statement of the case with
as cool an unconcern as if it were something
with which he himself had nothing to do.
Dorothy, however, flushed crimson as she
answered.

You  you did not do it ?' she said, faltering.


It was clear that, fond of her brother as she
had become, the thing did not strike her as
altogether impossible. Trained as she had been,
perhaps it was natural that it should be so.
That he had been guilty of one act of dishonesty
she knew, and she no more than
others could at once reject the possibility of his
having committed another. Gilbert half smiled.

No,' he said ; ' I did not do it. That,

however, makes little difference, since I cannot
disprove my guilt.'

But they would believe you,' cried the
child eagerly. ' If sou told them '

No,' he said, ' that is just it ; they would
not believe me. Why should they ?'

There was a silence. Dorothy, young as
she was, was sufficiently astute to understand
the justice of his words. Why, indeed, should
they believe him ? As Sir Cyril himself had
said a few hours ago, would a man who
cheated and forged stick at a lie ? There was
a painful pause.

AYhat shall you do ?' she asked at last.

I shall go away  probably abroad. My
father had a right to do what he pleased with
his own, and it seems ceram that whatever
became of the will  whether it is found or
not  the property is yours by right. At any
rate, I shall not dispute it. I leave England
tomorrow.'

Leave England !' she exclaimed. Again
her mind had grasped with shrewd promptitude
the consequences of such a course of
action as her brother indicated ; would it
not be tantamount to a confession of guilt ?
Gilbert, you cannot do that. They  they

would say ' She broke off, once more

colouring violently.

That I have run away ? I do not think
that matters,' he answered rather absently.
At any rate, the world's opinion of me is not
so hio'h, as it is, that I need take it into
account.'

He smiled mechanically, moving at the
same time as if to close the conversation ;
but Dorothy did not take the hint. She even
laid a detaining hand on his sleeve.

But, Gilbert,' she cried, ' you have not told
me what is to become of me ?'

He stopped and looked at her. The question
had, in truth, not presented itself to him.

You ?' he said, pausing again. ' That,
you know, it will no longer rest with me to
decide. With what belongs to yon, I naturally
give up the guardianship of yourself 
into hands better fitted to take care of both.'

A sob rose in the child's throat. Unintentionally
he was cruel. Only a few months
ago her father had been alive, with whom she
had always been the chief object ; now she
felt absolutely alone, and a sense of dreariness
and desolation was stealing over her calm,
Avell- regulated mind, together with a keen
sense of mortification and wounded affection.
Gilbert was all she had left, and unconsciously
and involuntarily, in the absence of anything
else to love, she had attached herself to him,
in spite of his open indifference. He was at
least some one who belonged to her, some one
upon whom she had a claim even though he
ignored it ; he J was her only brother, her only'
near relation, and he spoke of leaving her, as-vol.

II. 29

far as either of them knew, for ever, with as
absolute an indifference as if she had been a
stranger with whom he had no concern. It
was too much. Yet she made one more effort
at dignity.

I do not think,' she said slowly, though
with a quiver in her voice, * that it is  kind to
leave me.'

Gilbert was impatient at her persistence, but
yet he laughed.

My dear child,' he said, ' believe me, it is
the kindest thing I could possibly do. I
should have thought you knew enough of the

o

world to know that.'

He bent and touched her forehead with his
lips. It was a cold perfunctory kiss, but yet
as he gave it, Dorothy's self-control gave way
To his dismayed astonishment she burst into
a storm of tears, from which it was some time
before she was sufficiently recovered either to
answer his remonstrances or to give any

-explanation. When she did speak it was
between lier sobs, with angry vehemence.

You don't care for me,' she said ; ' you
never did, and you are my only brother ; I
have no one else. I don't want to have the
money. I don't want to stay behind. I
don't care about General Cartwright or Sir
Cyril Courtney. I want you to take me with
you.'

Gilbert was surprised, even touched. He
felt, With that part of him which, in his still
half stunned condition, was able to take any
interest in the matter, that here was one
hostage which he had won from the world's
opinion ; he was dimly aware that even his
little sister's affection might under other circumstances
have been worth having. But it
came at a moment when it was an embarrassment
rather than anything else. He spoke
with decision, though kindly.

I cannot take you with me, Dorothy,* he

29 2

said. ' Our lives will lie apart for the future ;
but I will not forget you. I am sorry if I
have seemed to fail in any brotherly duty
towards you ; but I am, at any rate, believe
me, doing the best I can for you now. And
now I must be busy. I shall leave this tomorrow.'


It was a dismissal, and Dorothy did not
attempt to dispute it. Indeed, well trained as
she was in the conventionality which considers
display of sentiment out of taste,
especially when the object of it is one so
doubtful as she still felt her brother to be, she
was already somewhat ashamed of her unusual
outbreak, and said good-night quietly before
going upstairs to wash her reddened eyelids
previous to appearing in the presence of her
governess.
Yet her heart was heavy, and her attention
wandered as she sat preparing her German
exercise that evening.

RS. ROSS, established with her
sister in an apartment at Nice,
was having what she herself
would have described as a remarkably good
time. Her past, so far as it had been unfortunate,
was retrieved, her futile assured, and
she was accordingly free to make the most of
the present.

'. Now that she had had ample time for reflection,
Iatricia was still of opinion that she had
done well for herself. It may be that, though
from the first she had cherished few illusions on
the subject. Lord Ralston's character, as she
became better acquainted with it, had not

presented itself altogether in a light of increasing
interest or attraction ; but then, as
Mrs. Ross frankly observed, it was impossible
to have everything ; he was rich, he was kind.
he had a certain position, was fond enough
and not oppressively fond of herself, and she
was not the least inclined to complain or to
go back upon her bargain. She was, indeed, a
woman who possessed to a remarkable extent
that by no means too common gift  an absolute
genius for making the best of life. It is
a talent which belongs chiefly, if not entirely
to the disillusioned; to those who have the
courage to look at life as it is, and to accept
it as such, and it is possessed in common by
the worst and by the best specimens of the
race.

Once, when she had been enumerating' the
advantages of the present arrangement to her
sister, she digressed from the subject in hand
to give her views of life in general, and the

duty of making the best of it in particular, in
which duty, like others who find it possible,
she was a devout believer.

It is your own fault if you are not happy
she had observed. ' People are so fond of laying
the blame upon circumstances; but after
all tliev have very little to do with it  of
course they make it easier or harder, but that
is all. I feel I am in a position to speak,
because they have always done their worst
for me.*

Until now,' Eve had corrected with a half-smile.


Well, yes,' assented her sister rather dubiously.
' I suppose it might be said that my
luck has turned at last ; but yet I don't know.
That, again, is because I compel circumstances.
1 know many women,' with characteristic candour,
 who would not have been satisfied to
marry Ralston. At all events, it has nothing
to do with my argument, which is, that I have

always managed to be happy in spite of everything.'


And sou think that happiness which is a
matter of management deserves the name?'
asked Eve.

Yet she had not found it so difficult as she
might formerly have done to give credence to
her sister's theory. She was, as Mrs. Eoss
had more than once observed to herself of
late, altered. It was not that she was
less quiet than before ; rather, had it been
possible, Patricia would have said that she
was quieter  the shadow of a great joy,
almost as stilhno- and hushing in its effects
as that of a sorrow, was upon her  but
still there was a difference which her sister,
without understanding it, noted, deciding
that, if she had not indeed alarmed herself
altogether unnecessarily on the subject, the
girl's interest in Yerschoyle had evidently
partaken only of the nature of a mere passing

fancy which change of scene had ah-lady
sufficed to cure.

One afternoon  it was the end of November,
but the weather was warm and the windows
stood open  Mrs. Ross was receiving a visit
from an old acquaintance who had recently
arrived at Xice. Her friendship with Mr.
Lloyd belonged to that period of her widowhood
immediately preceding the appearance of
Yerschoyle on the scene, and had been of a
more or less intimate and familiar type, though
circumstances had brought it to a somewhat
abrupt conclusion; and the two had met again
with pleasure, enhanced, perhaps, on the one
side and the other, by the consciousness that
Mrs. Ross's engagement set them free to carry
their friendship to what limits they pleased
without running any risk of inconvenient consequences.
On this particular afternoon, however,
Mr. Lloyd had been less entertaining and
more sentimental than usual, so t]]:it Mrs.

Ross looked up with something of relief when
her sister's entrance came to interrupt their
tete-astute.

'Ah, Eve, you are come in?' she said.
You don't mind my sister hearing too?' she
went on, turnings to her visitor. ' Mr. Lloyd
is telling me a most exciting story  quite a
true one, too  did you not say so?' to the
evidently discomfited guest.

Eve looked from one to the other, conscious
of the mockery in Patricia's tone. Mr. Lloyd,
for his part, rose rather hastily.

Another time,' he said, ' I am so sorry.
Miss Carrington, but I have just remembered
an engagement.'

'You really must go?' said Mrs. Koss ;
then good-bye. Be sure and come and
finish the story another time ; it is cruel to
leave off in the most interesting part. My
dear Eve,' as the door closed on him, ' I am
glad you came in, that young man was growing

insufferably tedious. He was just telling
me the story of his life, and it promised to be
one without an end. If he were not so good-looking
he would be insupportable. I wonder
what I used to see in him to like. I knead
him just before I was engaged to Mr. Yer-school.
Sometimes I think he  Gilbert, I
mean  spoilt me for other men. He was disagreeable
often enough  I never was sure
Whether I liked or hated him ; but he never
bored me, and '

Mrs. Ross stopped short, suddenly becoming
aware that she was talking to herself. Eve
had gone straight out on to the balcony.
Patricia shrugged her shoulders as she glanced
after her.

I wonder whether there was ever anything
between them,' she said, as she went upstairs
to repose herself before dinner. She had a
little dinner-party that evening.

Eve meanwhile, on the balcony, was

leaning her elbows on the balustrade, and
looking out into the soft dusk. Her thoughts
had already quitted Patricia. Though she
would not remain to hear Gilbert discussed,
the recollection of his brief connection with
her sister had lost its power to sting. She
had, in fact, forgotten to quarrel with the
past. She was only thinking, as lie leant
out into the darkness, how long the two
months which had still to elapse before she
was to see him again, looked as they stretched
out before her ; how hard were the conditions
of silence which he had imposed upon them
both I She smiled as she thought low she
had for the first time infringed his rule in
sending; him the violets. It was her first disobedience,
but he would not be liard upon her.
Perhaps even  perhaps he might write -just
one word. It would be something if only she
could see his handwriting  hold something
that he had touched  if

'Mademoiselle, are you there?' it was Elise,
Mrs. Eoss's maid, who spoke, standing in the
window, and peering out. ' Here are letters
for you.'

Eve turned, stepping into the lighted room,
and took the two letters the woman held out.
The uppermost one was from Lady Courtney,
but as she recognised the writing on the
second the bright colour flashed into her face.

Thank you, lise,' she said quietly, as she
moved towards the door under the woman's
curious eyes.

v-/t ?!-I'i-4

Mrs. Eoss's guests were assembled, and she
herself Alas talking to them gaily, although
she glanced from time to time with covert impatience
towards the door. Dinner had been
announced, but Eve had not yet appeared.

I must apologize for my sister's punctuality,'
she said, ' She is not often so late.
Ah, there she is !'

The door had opened, and Eve had entered
noiselessly and stood on the threshold. She
Alas dressed in white, and her face was almost
as colourless as her dress ; whilst her eyes,
which supplied the only touch of colour to
the picture, looked before her with a gaze
which was a little vacant, like that of someone
who has been dreaming and is not yet
fully awake. Even Patricia, careless and unobservant
though she was, noticed something
amiss, and was slightly startled. She rose
and went towards her hastily.

You are not ill, Eve ?' she said. ' Is anything
the matter ?'

No,' answered the girl, in her clear tones ;
oh no, not ill  only tired I'

The unusual closeness of the air, lor the
season, has no doubt knocked mademoiselle
up,' said a Frenchman who stood near ; and
Eve smiled as she assented politely.

Five minutes later they were seated at

dinner, and she was joining as usual in the
conversation. She never knew afterwards
how she had passed that evening. For
months she could not smell the scent of the
lot-house flowers which decked the table
without a shudder, without the whole scene
returning to her : the clatter of talk ; Mrs.
Ross's light laughter; the vapid compliments
of her neighbour, the Frenchman who had
suggested the heat as a reason for her pallor,
and who was inclined to be sympathetic on
the subject. AVould the evening never end,
and leave her free to be alone and to face the
crushing and incomprehensible trouble which
had fallen upon her? What was it? she had
almost forgotten . . . Gilbert had written 
he had said that they must part . . . ' You
are very good, monsieur; the flowers which
you were so kind as to send this morning are
the most beautiful I have seen since I came to
Xice' . . . he had said  what was it?  some

fresh accusation . if she could only remember
 if M. Dupres would not talk it
would come back to her. 'Yes, there is no
doubt thunder in the air; it has been hanging
about all day . . .'

So it went on  the endless, interminable
evening. For an hour upstairs, ever since, with
her eyes shining and her hands trembling, she
had opened the cruel letter, and had taken in
with slow laboriousness the full meaning of
its contents she had sat in a sort of lethargy,
from which she had only roused herself intime
to come down and take her part in the
evenings It must be done, she must oo down
as usual  Gilbert wished it ; so she reasoned
in a dull mechanical way ; he had said what
had passed was to rest between themselves as
before, and even in that first bitterest hour
she had set herself to carry out his wishes, todo
his will ; it was all that remained to her.
For his sake, because he wished it, she had

dressed and nerved herself to come down as
usual, and to take her share in what was
going on, ever' fresh effort another evidence
and result of the blind and absolute obedience
which had become the law of her life.

Later in the evening, as they sat in the
drawing-room, an English painter, Paul
Vassals by name, who was of the party, came
up and took a seat by her. He was a clever,
agreeable man, and a fair artist, and they had
seen a good deal of him since their arrival at
Xice. He was not in love with Miss Carrington
 his heart was, oddly enough, in the safekeeping
of a little red-haired freckled girl ina
country vicarage in Vales ; but he admired
her extremely, and he thought, as he looked
at her to-night, that he had never admired her
quite so much, whilst at the same time he
felt certain that there was something: wronsr.
He was in the habit of taking an artistic
interest in human nature, and Eve bad excited

VOL. II. 30

his curiosity ever since he had become acquainted
with her  a curiosity partly due,
perhaps, to his involuntary surprise that, in
spite of her gentle and friendly courtesy, and
the liking she had shown for his society, he had
never been able for a moment to flatter himself
that he had awakened so much as a passing
interest in her other than what she might have
felt for any man who had taken some pains to
render himself agreeable to her. Mr. Vassals,
to do him justice, had no desire that she
should be in love with him ; but he would
have liked to have drawn out in her case,
as in others, that sympathy, not untouched by
sentiment, which constituted the type of
friendship desirable in his eyes between himself
and those women in whom he was kind
enough to take an interest. In the present
instance he was conscious that he had not been
successful, and was piqued by his failure.
He was a clever talker in an idle desultory

way, fond of playing with abstract " subjects
and ethical questions, into which, however, he
rarely penetrated very deeply ; and he had got
into the habit of devoting his conversational
powers to the entertainment of Miss Carrington
upon the occasions on which they met.
To-night he had promised himself, ever since
with his quick observant eyes he had noticed
her entrance, that should an opportunity occur,
he would attempt to discover the meaning of
the chancre which he had recognised at once in
her face. It was, indeed, an investigation that
was quite m his OAvn line, being all in the
interests of that science, dealing with human
nature and emotion, which was, after his art,
and even at times taking precedence of it, the
study in which he indulged most constantly
and with the keenest interest, and in the pursuit
of which, like other devotees, he was sometimes
accustomed to disregard the risk of the
suffering which he might inflict in the course

roof

his inquiries. That the girl had suffered
some blow he was certain, and he
felt a natural desire to experiment upon her,
with the object of, if possible, discovering its
nature and extent. He began, however, with
commendable caution by some observations
upon art in general, and his own in particular.


We artists are the only people in the
world who have a right to be unhappy,' he
observed, ' since it is only we for whom failure
is certain, and to whom success  meaning, of
course, in one's own eyes, which is the only
success that counts at all  would mean the
most deadly failure of all.'

You mean ' said Eve absently. She

had been only half listening, a fact which he,
with his eyes upon her, noted,

That supposing we imagined ourselves to
have succeeded, it would mean that we had
made the worst failure of all  that we had

apostatized and renounced faith in an ideal 
the unknown God whom ignorantly we
worship, and to whom our altars are set up.
That is the worst failure of which an artist is
capable.'

Again Eve's thoughts had wandered, recurring
to her last meeting with Gilbert, when
she had asked him ' What is failure ?' Almost
unconsciously she spoke the words again, half
aloud, and Mr. Vassals caught them.

Ah, there you open a wide subject,' he
said. ' Each man must answer that question
for himself You might as well try to define
the ideal.'

And why not ?' !M. Dupres, Eve's neighbour
at dinner, had sauntered up and overheard
the last words. ' Why not then define
this ideal, my friend ? It is surely not so
impossible.'

For a Frenchman, certainly not,' answered
Vassall smoothly, annoyed at the interruption.

Dupres, however, went on, not perceiving, or
at least taking no notice of, the sarcasm.

Let me supply a definition,' he said.
Mademoiselle shall judge whether it is a
correct one or not. Is not idealism then a
great  let us say even an exaggerated, estimate
of one's own possibilities ? of whose else
can one judge ? Am I not right ? If my
definition is allowed, then monsieur,' bowing-politely
to Vassals, ' has no doubt a perfect 
right to cherish his idealism, since who that
has seen his beautiful pictures, has felt the
force of his pathos, his imagination, his power
of moving the heart, can doubt his claim to it ?'

With another bow to Vassals he moved
away, whilst the painter, disgusted and impatient,
turned again to Eve.

Of all the insufferable ' he began

breaking off, however, and dismissing M.
Dupres, to return to the subject under discussion.


fer

To an artistic eye he said, half laughing,
the world is only redeemed by its failures.
Supposing, which Heaven forbid, it were ever
to succeed in becoming what it attempts to be,
it would be lost. But all the same it is not
much consolation, under the sense of individual
defeat, to know that we are helping to
add the picturesque element required ; and we
meet our failures at every turn  in art, in
friendship, in love. Eor instance '  abruptly
forsaking the abstract for the personal  ' for
instance. Miss Carrington, you care nothing
Avhat happens to me, though I have devoted
three weeks to trying to make you.'

He Alas jarcly in jest, yet not altogether; a
now tone had crept into his voice, and she
looked at him, roused from the abstraction in
which, as he had felt with growing irritation,
she had remained wrapped in spite of the half-attention
with which she had listened to him.
At that moment, as her eyes, questioning

and perplexed, met his, it may be doubted
Whether Mr. Vassals's admiration was not
less purely artistic than the little red-haired
girl in Wales might have altogether approved.
To all men, especially artists, come such
flashes of involuntary infidelity, for which
they should not be too severely judged.

 You don't care one straw what happens tome,'
he repeated.

She made no answer. As Gilbert had once
said, to lie was impossible to her, and she
knew that Vassals had spoken the truth. He
turned away with a short laugh.

See my words proved,' he said. * Failure
meets us at every turn.'

Eve drew a long breath; she had already
forgotten the personal application of the
words, but they struck upon her ear like a
knell.

 Life,' she said, ' is failure  the terms are
synonymous.'

And death, its opposite, success ?' he
asked, surprised, yet curious ; and, with a sense
that she was touching upon the surface of
something which, explained, might give him
the clue to what he was seeking to discover,
anxious to make her say more.

She did not answer at once. Y assail, looking
at her with the intentness of an artist,
accustomed to catch impressions and ream
them for future use, was struck by the absolute
stillness of the face, the sadness of the
eyes, which were looking away through the
window to the starlit night.

Perhaps,' she said at last. There was a
minute's silence, and then she rose.

You will excuse me,' she said, smiling
faintly. " I am tired.'

She gave him her hand, then, crossing the
room quickly, went out without pausing to
take leave of the others, who were just then
engaged in some rather noisy discussion.

Mr. Vassals, left alone, meditated. He was assure
as before that something* was Avrong, but
as to its nature he was as much in the dark
as ever. Mrs. Ross interrupted his speculations.


'Where is Eve? Mr. Vassals, what have
sou done with my sister?'

I am sorry to say Miss Carrington has a
headache,' he replied coolly, with the instinct
of defence, which comes by nature to some
men. He had desired to experiment upon
Eve herself, and was sensible of some irritation
that he had been baffled ; but he was
none the less inclined to protect her from the
inconvenient observations or comments of
others. ' She asked me to say that she had
gone to her room.'

'Ah, was that it?' returned Patricia contentedly.
' I thought she was looking ill.
So the new arrivals are Ideally only General
Hawthorne and his daughter,' turning to resume

her interrupted conversation. ' What a
disappointment ! He has such a hang-dog expression
that I quite hoped he might turn out
to be the hero of some criminal exploit. Weare
terribly in want of a sensation. Some one
must positively sacrifice himself for the good
of the rest and commit suicide!'

Meanwhile, in her room above, Eve was
reading and re-reading Gilbert's letter, line by
line, sentence by sentence, and endeavouring
to extract fi'om it one syllable of hose, one
word which might render the future less
blank ; but in vain. He had faithfully and
loyally adhered to his determination ; with a
resolute and unwavering hand he had severed
the connection between them, not even leavings
her time for answer or remonstrance. And,
as before, with the dull despair that is so
often christened patience, she yielded, as she
had ever done, to his will. It was over ;

and the long future lay before her, enlightened
and unrelieved, bearing in it only
the melancholy hope to which the painter's
last words had pointed. If life was a failure,
was death  its opposite  success? To herself,
as to him, she could only answer, ' Perhaps.'


XE afternoon, about a month after
the day when Eve had received
Yerschoyle's letter, two figures
were walking along the road which leads
from Xice towards Yillafranca.

It was a day of brilliant sunshine, and was
quite warm, in spite of the crisp freshness of
the air. The sweet geraniums in full bloom,
though it was mid-winter, scented the breeze,
and the flowering shrubs, aloes and cactus,
stood out in sharp relief against the deep blue
of the sky, each leaf and blossom distinctly
defined in the clear atmosphere.

Eve and Cyril Courtney  for it was he who

was her companion  had been walking in
silence almost unbroken by a word from
either. It was only when they had already
left the town some way behind them that he
spoke.

Shall we sit down ?' he asked. ' It is not
cold, and,' glancing for a moment at her face,
you are tired.'

She neither assented nor dissented from his
assertion, but seated herself on the spot he
indicated, under a solitary fir-tree, which
stood back a little way from the edge of the
cliff.

Far below lay the sea, purple-blue, smooth,
and shining. On the edge of the cliff, and
here and there on its face, tufts of tall white
heather lifted themselves ; only the ripple of
the water below broke the absolute stillness
of the day. There had been a storm, and
though it had gone off, leaving only a gentle
swell behind, few boats were visible. Only

one white sail, far away, glided slowly over
the water towards the horizon. Eve watched
it absently, yet intently, till it had passed out
of sight, and then moved and sighed with an
indefinable sense of loss. Something living
seemed to be gone, vanished; it had been the
one touch of human life in the beautiful landscape,
and now only the great silent world of
nature lay before her, with its secrets that no
man can read  like a page emblazoned with
unknown characters, in which the prisoner
tries in vain to decipher his sentence of death
or his release. The fanciful imagination
passed vaguely through her mind ; nature
seemed to her just then a distinct personality,
guarding its secrets, dumb and jealous.

It was now, as has been said, a month since
Eve had received Yerschoyle's letter  a
month since she had heard of him, save for
the short bare accounts which had not failed
to reach her of the new felony in which he

had been detected, of the accusation which
had been brought against him, and of which,
by his silence, and what was called his flight,
he had admitted the justice. Only four
wrecks, and life had been going on ever since
as if nothing had happened, and she knew
not even where he was  Avhat he was doing.
If she could only have known, could have
had but one word, one sign, she thought she
could have been almost content  would at
least have had courage to set to work to bear
her trouble and to live it down. It was,
above all else, the uncertainty, the terrible
silence, almost like that of the grave, which
was gradually threatening to break her down,
and of which the history, written on her face,
and in the stains which nights of sleeplessness
were painting under her eyes, was causing
Patricia at times a passing uneasiness, and from
which, refusing to seek an interpretation, Cyril
averted his eyes with a sullen impatience.

It was worse  so she dreamily thought, as,
forgetting her companion, her eyes wandered
over the sea  than the silence of the grave.
The grave meant peace  rest, if it meant also
silence. Were she dead, if she were conscious
of anything, if it were anything but the ' quiet
of a dreamless sleep,' she would surely know
how it was with him ; if he were dead  but
no  she broke off shuddering, with a passionate
recoil from the thought  no, not that,
anything but that, anything but death.

She did not blame him  her loyalty was
still too absolute for that; but yet the thought
crossed her mind, had he known how hard he
lead struck ? Had he foreseen how often she
would scan the lines that he had sent her, ina
vain endeavour to extract any comfort from
them, any ray of hope? She had answered
him at once : not beoo'ino; for a reversal of his
sentence, nor even asking him to reconsider
it ; accepting his decision without a murmur

VOL. II. 31

or an attempt to appeal against it ; adding,
however, the one entreaty that he would
let her hear of him from time to time, that
she might at least know what he was doing,
where he was. But the letter had never
been answered ; he had, though she did not
know it, left Sandmoor before it arrived,
leaving no address, and she had heard nothings
of him since.

If I only knew  if I only knew !' the
words were repeating themselves with a
weary iteration in her mind, as she sat, with
Cyril beside her, listening to the ripples breaking
Of on the shore below.

He, for his part, was also gazing down at
the stretch of water. He had taken off his
hat, and the light fell full on his fair thin
face and restless eyes. His brows were
drawn together and knit. At last he spoke
abruptly.

o tomorrow,' he said.

Eve started, roused from her own thoughts.

'To-morrow?' she repeated. * Why' tomorrow
?

Why should I stay ?' he said. ' I '

He broke off, pausing and plucking at the
grasses which grew round. When he spoke
again, it was in a different tone. They talked
of her return home in a month ; of Mrs.
Koss's marriage, which was to take place at
Xortons ; of Kit, who was to be left therefor
the present.

It is not that Ralston has any objection to
him,' Patricia had said, when asking her
sister to take charge of her son. ' He is so
fond of duty in any shape, that I should not
be the least surprised if he conceived an affection
for the child as its embodiment. It is
fortunate such people exist  it was always
enough for anything to wear the garb of duty
to make me dislike it. The very word was
repulsive to me from a child ; whereas I am

sure that if physic or the multiplication-table
had only been offered me in the guise of a
sinful pleasure, I should have taken to them
at once. But I always considered it the
worst taste on the part of a woman who
marries again to be for ever reminding you of
her first husband  they do it, you know,
constantly. And Kit would really be worse ;
it would be like having a live memorial -
card walking about. He is exactly like his
father, too ; he will be just as plain. The
Rosses are really a type by themselves  men,
women, and Rosses. If I am unnatural, I
can't help it. Nature was very unnatural
when she made him.'

Some of her sister's remarks Eve repeated
to Cyril, half amused, half pitiful.

He had better have been a street-arab,
with some one to love him she observed.
He is none the better off because he misses
nothing. I used to blame her.'



You do not now ?'

Xo ; I think not. One learns indulgence,
and also that love cannot be commanded, and
that its absence is better than its counterfeit."

You think so ?' he asked. ' I am not so
certain. What does it matter that the coin is
false, provided you don't want to exchange
it ? All you have to do is to avoid ringing
it upon the counter.'

And you think there would be satisfaction
in the possession of what you are afraid to
test ?'

At any rate, it would be better than
nothing, especially if you could succeed in
believing in it. The art of self-deception is
one of the most repaying that exist  half the
happiness of the Avorld comes from it. Strip
life of its illusions, and you have nothing but
an unsightly skeleton left.'

Even if your theory is true,' answered
Eve, somewhat wistfully, * after you have once

suspected them to be illusions, the bubble is
burst  their raison cVetre is gone.'

It does not follow. You may see half
through your own reasoning, and yet decide
to be blind to its flaws. It is a process most
of us are carrying on all our lives.' He
paused, and went on in a bitter, yet half-jesting
tone. * Did I not tell you three days
ago that, since you can give me no truer
coin, I would take the counterfeit, and be
thankful r

She lifted her eyes, with a pained reproach
in them, to him.

'You promised me ' she began.

I know. I promised you to let that old
story rest, and I am going to break my
promise. What does the breaking of one
promise more or less matter ?'

There was a moody impatience in his voice.
She turned and looked him in the face, replying

rather to his tone than to his words.

 I have broken no promise she said, a
little proudly.

Not as women count promises,' he said
with a sneer. ' Can you say that you have
never made me think that you cared for me 
that '

I did care for you,' she answered, anger
and old affection  the affection that had
always made allowances for him and loved
him, in spite of his faults  struggling for
mastery in her voice. ' I did care for you.
You were my dearest friend.'

And he ?' the words forced their way
abruptly, and, as it were, in spite of himself.

A sort of shiver passed over her as she
caught them.

He ?' she repeated vaguely  ' he ?'

Gilbert Yerschoyle,' he said roughly.
 Did you love him  too ?'

She had not heard his name for weeks.
Never since Courtney had arrived had he

mentioned the man the thought of whom had,
nevertheless, been a scarcely less constant
presence to himself than to Eve herself,
forcing itself upon him when he would most
gladly have driven it away ; and now that,
almost against his will, he had at last put the
question that should confirm or dispel his
fears, he regretted it almost as soon as it had
passed his lips. But it was too late ; she had
turned her eyes, open and wide, to meet his.

Oh, Cyril!' she said, with a long, gasping
breath ; ' yes  I loved him.*

It was the first time the confession had
passed her lips, save to Gilbert himself.
There was a silence. He had turned sharply
away, and was staring before him. He had
feared it  he now felt that, striven as he
had against it, he had been sure of it for
months; yet now that certainty had come it
struck him like a blow, filling him besides
with a fierce indignation. For a few moments

he was silent, then he spoke, catching his
breath with sudden passion.

It is like a woman he said. ' A man is a
fool who trusts to her. What are years of
affection, what are implied pledges to her ? no
claim can be founded upon them. What are
memories, however sacred ? Some stranger
comes across her and  God knows why 
takes her fancy  so much the better if he is a
man of bad character, respectability is dull
and prosaic  and all are forgotten. Deny
it if you can, if he had not crossed your path
you would have married me. Tell me,' he
had laid his hands on her wrists  ' tell me
if you can that it is not true.'

Perhaps,' she answered ; even now pain
and pity  pity for the man whose weakness
she had always known, and whom she had
loved in spite of it  leaving no place in her
for a personal resentment at his words. ' It
may be so ; I cannot tell.*

Suddenly his mood changed. Stooping his
head, he laid his brow against the hands he
held, and spoke in low broken sentences.

Oh, Eve,' he said, ' marry me now ! What
does it matter? it is a wretched world, but let
us make what Ave can of it. Give me the
counterfeit since you can give me no more.
1 Avill be content. And at least  you have
said it  you care for me too.'

 I do,' she said, ' but not like that. I do
love you, but he  was heaven and earth tome.'


Her low voice thrilled and faltered, but he
caught the words and lifted his head, loosing
her hands.

Heaven I' he repeated bitterly; ' heaven has
little enough to do with him  the unconnected
felon, the base cowardly scoundrel who was
not content with robbing his father, but '

He stopped suddenly. She had raised her
hand with a swift passionate gesture, the

softness had died out of her face, and a look
that he had never seen there had flashed into
her blue eyes.

Not another word!' she said. ' One more
like those you have uttered nov, and I will
never willingly speak to you again. Remember
this when you speak to me of Mr.
Aerschoyle '  even then as she spoke his
name lier voice changed  ' that the man whom
you have slandered, of whom  in his absence
and to the woman who loved him  you have
dared to speak evil, is, whatever else he maybe,
the man whose name but for himself Avould
have been my own  whose shame would have
been mine too.'

But for himself?' Cyril repeated, startled
into momentary forgetfulness of the present.


Yes, but for himself. What was what the
world calls his disgrace to me ? What was
it to me what he had done, knowing what he

was? But he was different. He loved me,
thank God !' again her voice broke and changed ;
but men  you are right  are different from
women.'

Her passion had died away, leaving her
face white and still ; as she ended her voice
dropped. She was no longer looking at him,
but once more away to the far horizon.
Presently she went on.

It was he who put an end to it. We 'ere
engaged  he had let it be so at last. But
when they accused him of  of that new thing,
he wrote and said it must end.'

Again there was silence  a heavy silence 
which at last he broke.

Forgive me, Eve !' he said. ' Your friendship
is all I care for ; you will not, at least,
take that away, because of a few angry
words. Life has gone hard with us both ;
forgive me !'

The pain  still half irritable, half complaining

 of his voice roused her. She had
always been used to play the part to him of
comforter, and even now she turned to him
with a faint smile. His face was towards her
the thin lips a little unsteady ; the spots of
colour, brought by excitement, burning on
the cheek-bones ; the whole face worn and
tremulous. She laid her hand in his.

Yes, Cyril,' she said.

For a few minutes they sat thus in silence,
then she rose.

It grows late she said ; ' we must go
back.'

HAT afternoon Patricia was sitting

o

alone writing letters in the drawing-room,
when a card was brought
in to her. She took it indifferently, although
the advent of a visitor was always a welcome
event to Mrs. Ross ; but she started and
coloured as she read the name inscribed
upon it.

Is the gentleman Awaiting ?' she inquired.

He is,' answered the woman. ' He waits
to know whether madame will receive him.'
Patricia hesitated before she answered.

Certainly,' she said, after that momentary
pause. * Show him in at once.'

A mirror hung over the chimney-piece, and
she instinctively glanced towards it as she
waited for her visitor, raising her hand as she
did so to give a touch to the lace at her throat.
She was a woman who, at any crisis of her
destiny, however grave, would have been
aware of it had a hair been out of its place.
She had risen and stood in the middle of the
room, conscious of her attitude, of the hand
she had laid on the table, of the pose of her
head, even of the background supplied by the
bright little room, with its gay paper, and the
row of flowering plants in the window  not a
detail of the picture escaped her. And yet
notwithstanding it all  and this she also
noted with surprise and the sort of pleased
interest which Patricia never failed to take in
her inner phases of emotion, no less than in
those which belonged to her outward personality
 for once her perfect self-possession
had failed her ; she observed, with the interest

belonging to an unwonted sensation, that her
heart was beating fast, and her colour coming
and going as the door opened, and Gilbert
Yerschoyle entered.

Why had he come ? she was asking herself,
had been asking herself ever since she
had seen his name on the card  what could
have brought him ? She had forgotten Eve ;
the suspicions she had entertained as to an
entanglement between her sister and the man
to whom she herself had once been engaged
were obliterated for the time as completely as
if they had never existed ; even Lord Ralston
had faded from her memory as she stood
waiting for the man whom she had once,
according to her nature and in her own
fashion, loved. As the past, abruptly, unexpectedly,
recalled, rose up before her without
as it were preface or introduction, a curious
and sudden ripple of emotion lightly stirred
her, quickening her pulses, and lending an

unwonted softness to her hazel eyes. But
almost before Gilbert had entered, before either
had spoken, the dream had vanished ; the past,
like a slide in a magic-lantern superseded by
another, had disappeared, and in its place the
present stood before her. In Gilbert's face,
even as she first caught sight of it, she had
instinctively realized that the past found no
reflection ; she knew, almost before she looked
at him, that for him at that moment it did
not exist.

He had the overwrought look of a man
whose brain and nerves are in a state of
tension, or upon whom some long-continued
strain has begun to tell. His face produced,
quiet though it was, the impression of suppressed
excitement, and of self-control only
maintained by a conscious and continuous
effort. Patricia, looking at him, recognised
with surprise the change which had taken place
in him, the entire absence of the reckless care-vol.

II. 32

lessens, bordering upon insolence, which
had been to her one of his most familiar
features. Yet, recognising: and realizing the
change, Patricia knew also and at once that
to whatever it was due, she had in it neither
part nor lot. Ashen she spoke she had entirely
regained what self-possession she had lost.

You wished to see me ?' she said inquiringly.


He had not offered his hand, and had made
no ordinary nor formal greeting. Patricia
Alas aware of the omission, but she saw that
he was not. His nerves were too highly
strung, he was too much absorbed in what
he had come to say to have thought to spare
for the conventional usages of society.

I did,' he said, answering her. ' I have
come for that.'

Again he paused. He was standing as if
collecting his thoughts, and seeking for words
to clothe them, not looking at Patricia, but

beyond her ; and she glanced towards him,
surprised at his silence.

As she did so, a pang shot through her.
Changed as he was, different from the companion
with whom she had passed so many
hours of familiar intercourse not, counting
by weeks and months, so very long ngo, who
had made careless love to her in those pleasant
bygone days  changed and worn as he was,
she felt once more that he was the one man
she had loved. In that moment Gilbert Yer-school,
little as he guessed it or would have
cured had he known, had his revenge. It is
true that as she had conquered she would
conquer again ; even now no deliberate regret
touched her for the part she had acted ; but
yet she felt that the price she had paid was
heavy. Ever afterwards she remembered him,
not as he had been, but as he stood before her
now, in that new world of his in which the
past which they had shared was as if it had

322

never been, motionless, his head raised, his
straight brows knit, and that curious overwrought
look which was so new to her upon
his face. She spoke softly, even a little
tremulously.

Gilbert,' she said  ' Gilbert, what do you
want? what is it?'

He started and spoke with a visible effort.

I have come,' he said  steady as his voice
was, there was a sort of strain in it corresponding
to the look on his face  * I have
come  to ask you a question.'

Ask what you will,' she answered. It
was as if she were speaking in a dream. His
next words, however, dispelled it.

Your sister ' he said, and then broke

off.

 My sister?' she repeated, in a voice from
which all the softness had died out. ' It is of
her that you wish to speak ?'

Of her,' he repeated, just glancing at her

with a sort of surprise. 'Who else?' He
had forgotten that there could be any other
question between them. The world is made
up of such forgetfulness and of such memories.
 She has not told you?'

She has told me nothing,' she said. Her
moment of weakness was over, leaving
nothing but resentment behind, deepening ashe
told his story, in few brief sentences, and
to the end. She heard him, however, without
interruption. Only when, having finished, he
was silent, she spoke.

One thing remains to be explained,' she
said. ' You have forgotten to say what has
brought you here.'

I was coming to that,' he answered slowly.
I came because, since that letter was written
there have been times when I have thought
that it was possible I might have been wrong.
Because there have been times when it has
occurred to me that I may have acted the part

of a coward, that I have taken upon myself todo
that which no man has a right to do 
namely, to judge for another, and to say that
the path, be it hard or easy, which that other
had deliberately elected to tread was the
wrong one

tie paused. Hitherto he had been speaking
slowly, in short sentences, as if recalling
With effort a previous train of reasoning and
speaking words upon which he had settled
beforehand ; but as he went on his manner
altered.

Also,' he said, ' supposing  I only say
supposing  that she had made no mistake,
that she loved me as she imagined she did,
would not the gain be sufficient to outweigh
the sacrifice  to counterbalance the disapproval
and blame of a world in arms?
Have I any right, having  God knows how  
won her love  I swear to Him I never meant
to do it  have I any right, that misfortune

having befallen her, to shrink back from the
-consequences, to refuse to allow her to choose
her good and evil for herself, and to shut her
into what may after all be only an imaginary
Eden, alone?'

He had spoken with increasing passion, his
words no longer carefully chosen but hurrying
and broken, as if he had forgotten his
listener. Patricia's answer came in contrast,
with cold distinctness touched with sarcasm.

It is late to speak of rights,' she said, 'and
therefore I will not ask you if you had any
ri(iht to take advantage of her position and of
her ignorance, of her rash confidence in sour
innocence '  Gilbert moved and winced ; it
was  he knew it  the weak point in his
defence, the fact that had haunted him with
unavailing remorse, that he had not at once
undeceived her ; ' I will not reproach you for
the past, but this one thing I do require of
you  it is surely not an exorbitant demand 

to act up to what even your own ideas of
honour, before you tampered with them
prompted, as the only fair course to be pursued.
To leave her alone, noah, in peace, is
all that remains to you to do, and I have a
right to require that it shall be done.'

That is your counsel,' he said. His vehemence
was gone ; he spoke in a low, dull
tone ; the fire which some transient hope had
lent to his face had died out, as if a cloud
which had been for a moment lifted from it
had settled there again.

She bowed her head. ' I am sorry for
you,' she said. It was not altogether false.
Through her coldness and her resentment a
ray of compassion shot, although her purpose
never wavered.

Tell me one thing first,' he said abruptly.
It is not necessary that you should be sorry
for me. My happiness  this at least I can
say  has never weighed with me in the

balance, neither shall it do so now. But one
question I, too, have a right to ask. Is she
happy?'

For a moment Patricia hesitated. Apt in
lying as she was, skilful in the art of self-deception
which is so useful an ally to that
of falsehood, as Eve's face rose before her with
the look upon it Which it had worn of late
and of which she only now held the key and
interpretation, the words with which she would
have assured him of her sister's happiness
tripped upon her tongue. But her hesitation
was over almost before he could have
noticed it.

She will be happy,' she said. ' Give her
time, which heals all wounds, and she will be
happy.'

Gilbert looked at her fixedly. For the
first time during their present interview, Mrs.
Ross's personality had suddenly become something
more vivid to him than simply that of

the sister of the woman he loved. Hitherto,
preoccupied as he had been by the one
thought of Eve, Patricia had had no separate
existence for him, no character that was
not merged and fused in the particular office
which he had now called upon her to fulfil 
that, namely, of Eve's guardian and friend.
Xow, however, there rushed for the first time
upon his memory the knowledge of the absolute
untrustworthiness of the counsellor to
Avhom, in default of others, he had turned for
guidance. AVhat was Patricia Ross  the
woman who had lied to him and deceived him
again and again, from whom at last he had
forced the truth only, as it were, at the point
of the bayonet  what was she that he should
believe her in a matter of such moment ; what
were her assertions worth that he should give
them credit? And yet to whom else could he
turn ?

He was still gazing at her with the painful

perplexity born of his doubt and his distrust
leo'iblv written in his face, when Patricia, receiving
no reply, turned and read it. It
was characteristic of her that the perception
that he did not believe her, whilst it complicated
the situation, roused no additional
animosity in her mind. She would, on the
contrary, rather have despised him, had he
given credit to her unsupported word.

She will be happy,' she had said.

 Is that the truth?' he asked at last slowly,
still scanning her face, as if by that means to
discover the truth or falsity of her assertion.
 What reason have I to believe you ?'

It was the first reference to the past that he
lead made, the first indication lie had given
that he remembered it, and it was curious
that the implied accusation sent a thrill of
tardy repentance to her heart.

None, I confess it,' she said. * Gilbert, I
am sorry. It is all over  over and forgotten

now ; but I should like to know that I have
your forgiveness.'

He looked at her with eyes that were surprised,
yet only half comprehending, as if he
had no thought to spare fi'om the present.

Forgiveness ?' he repeated. 'Forgiveness,
yes. What does it matter now? It is easy
to forgive where no harm was done. It is, as
you say, over and forgotten. Only speak the
truth now. Is she happy ?'

A flush had risen to her face at the careless,
half-contemptuous indifference of his
reply, then suddenly a gleam of triumph lit it.
She rose.

Look I' she said.

The room in which their interview was
taking place looked out upon a garden stretching
a little way behind the house, and of
which Patricia, sitting facing the window,
commanded the view, whilst Aerschoyle's
back had been turned to it. Now, however.

he too had risen, glancing in the direction she
indicated. There, along the pathway, Eve and
Cyril Courtney were slowly walking towards
the house. Gilbert stood motionless, looking
at the two. Eve had stopped to gather a
flower, and as he watched he saw her companion
take it from her hand. Then his eyes,
with a dumb passionate question in them,
sought Patricia's. She answered it.

She will be happy,' she murmured. ' The
mischief you have done is not irreparable.
You are not,' quoting the words he had used
a few minutes before, ' shutting her into Eden
alone.'

There was no answer. Gilbert had turned
without word or farewell ; she heard the door
close on him, and he was gone.

She gave a low laugh as she dropped again
into her chair.

'A satisfactory conclusion she said,  and
not without dramatic effect. I could not have

done it better if I had had the arrangement of
it myself; it was most complete. I doubt
whether I could have satisfied him without
it ; he did not seem prepared to give my
assertions unlimited credit. And after all it
was the truth  she will be happy. The days
for deathless attachments and unalterable
fidelity are  if they ever existed, and notwithstanding
the faith in them that Mr.
Gilbert Yerschoyle appears to have developed
with somewhat startling suddenness 
over.'

NE November afternoon, about two
years after that upon which Gilbert
Yerschojle had paid his visit to
Mrs. Ross, Mr. Erskine was walking down
Piccadilly at the pace natural to a man who
has come to town resolved to accomplish in
two days what might have been fairly considered
to be the work of ten. The weather,
it is true, was not provocative of loitering; a
drizzling rain fell, whilst a yellow fog made
the opposite side of the street indistinct and

vague.

Mr. Erskine was hurrying along, glancing
neither to right nor left, when he suddenly

stopped short with a smothered exclamation,
turning to look after a man who, with his
collar tm-ned up and his hat over his eyes,
had just gone by in the opposite direction.
An ejaculation escaped the clergyman's lips.

Yerschoyle,' he muttered to himself. He
hesitated a moment, then turning, overtook
the figure which had arrested his attention.


I beg your pardon,' he said hastily, as he
caught him up. ' But I cannot, surely, be
mistaken  Yerschoyle ?'

He ended with less assurance than he had
beoun. The other had turned, and as he
caught a fuller view of his face, he felt a
moment's uncertainty as to whether the height
and general air of the man had not led him
into accosting a stranger. At no time had
any real intimacy existed between himself and
Gilbert Yerschoyle, and glancing at the man
before him, he felt bewildered and confused,

and colouring furiously, had almost begun ari
apology, when the other spoke.

'Erskine,' he said, 'it is you? I did not
recognise you as you passed. Are you staying
in London?'

A flash of unmistakable annoyance had
passed over his features, but he spoke civilly
if without cordiality.

Only for two days,' answered the other.
I am glad to have met you.'

Though reassured as to Yerschovle's identity,
he still felt some embarrassment, which
Gilbert's manner was not calculated to remove.
After the exchange of a few more words the
latter moved.

Excuse me he said, ' but you will agree
that the weather is unfavourable for conversation,
and '  as he was cut short by a cough
'I have a cold. I am afraid I must be
going on.'

He held out his hand. Erskine, however,

VOL. II. 33

who had been observing him closely, clis-
regarded the dismissal.

You have been ill,' he said. The words
were rather an assertion than a question 
indeed, a casual glance at Gilbert's face would
have made the fact evident  the change was
sufficient to account for Erskine's momentary
uncertainty as to his identity. He answered
with visible impatience.

Yes  a cold, as I said. I beg your pardon,
but I am in a hurry. Good-bye.' Again he held
out his hand, but still the other did not take it.

Where are you staying?' he asked. ' You
will let me come and see you ?'

Gilbert Alas becoming irritated at his persistence.
He paused, and when he answered,
it was with brief decision.

 Does it not occur to you he said, ' that
that question had better not have been asked ?
Since I am safe in assuming you to be aware
of the circumstances of my case, you will

understand me if I say that I prefer not to
give you my address.'

He had looked him steadily over as he
answered. Erskine, for his part, was struggling
With constitutional shyness, coupled with an
extreme reluctance to appear to meddle or to
force himself into the private concerns of
another; whilst yet he felt that there was
something which must be said, and that,
should he let the present opportunity slip, he
might never have a second. At last he spoke
abruptly.

You say I am aware of the circumstances
of your case. Are you sure that you are
aware of them yourself ? Have any communications
from Sandmoor  from Sir Cyril
Courtney  reached you since you left?'

He had kept his eyes upon Gilbert, and
noticed the slight involuntary hardening of
Lis face at the mention of Courtney's name.

None,' he answered.  Have you any 



formation to offer  of births, marriages, or
deaths?'

I have something to tell you,' said Erskine,
if it is possible you have remained ignorant
of it all this time. But surely it is not possible;
you must have heard, though you have
seen fit to take no notice of the fact  you
must have heard that Jenkinson, your servant,
has confessed to having destroyed Mr. Yer-school's
will. You Avere cleared before you
had left Sandmoor three months.'

He had spoken rapidly, with his eyes-turned
away, but he glanced towards Gilbert
as he ended. The blood had rushed to his
face, and was gone almost as quickly, leaving
it absolutely colourless. Erskine noticed that
he drew his breath hard.

You had not heard it ?' he exclaimed.

I had not. Why '

Every effort was made to find you,' said
Erskine. anticipating the hasty Question which



had sprung to Gilbert's lips, ' but in vain.
Still, it was thought that through the newspapers
 advertisements were inserted  it was
almost impossible that you should not have
been reached.'

And so it was Jenkinson ?' said Gilbert
slowly, as if taking in the facts with effort.
 He burnt it ? Yes, he was there, of course.
I remember.'

He burnt it. He imagined that he would
thus secure the property to you. When,
however, he saw the turn matters had taken,
he went to Sir Cyril Courtney  he was one of
the trustees, you know, under the will which
was destroyed  and cleared you.'

He stopped. Gilbert never spoke. After
a moment Erskine went on.

You should not have gone,' he said.
You should have waited ; the truth always
wins in the end.'

Again he stopped. Gilbert had scarcely

heard or understood him. One fact only was.
palpable to hin  that he was cleared, that
the accusation which had driven him away
had been proved false ; one thought only was
present to his mind  Eve Carrington. ' Every
effort was made to find you, but in vain.'
With a flash of keen sharp realization, which
wrung his heart like physical pain, he imagined
her waiting, waiting in vain. Whatever might
have come after, he knew she would not have
given him up at once, and how long had she
waited and hoped ? At last he was conscious
that Erskine was again speaking, and roused
himself to listen.

Where have you been ?' he said. ' Plow
was it possible, in these days, to hide yourself
so effectually?'

I went abroad first,' he said. ' Since then
I have been travelling, in America and elsewhere.
I only came to England last week.'

And now you will give me your address ?"

said Erskine. ' You will let me come and
see you?'

Gilbert assented mechanically, giving the
name and number of the street in which he
was lodoino\

Come if you like,' he said. ' I shall be in
to-night.' He had already turned away, when
he spoke again, in a curious low tone. ' I&
Sir Cyril Courtney married ?' he asked.

Sir Cyril  no,' answered Erskine, surprised.
He was aware that the two had not
been upon friendly terms, and was at a loss
to account for the interest indicated by the

question. * Had you heard that ' But

Gilbert was already gone.

i's '.c-5 % "A

Mr. Erskine did not fail to avail himself of
Gilbert's permission to visit him that evening.
At nine o'clock he was shown into the
lodgings that he was at present occupying,
and which, though dingy and unattractive, were

not uncomfortable. One or two French novels
and a newspaper lay together on the table,
and a terrier rose and snarled as Erskine
entered. It was of the dog that the latter
spoke on his entrance, seizing upon the first
embarrassing subject of conversation.

You have not got Ben still ?' he asked.
 Is this his successor ?'

Gilbert's brow clouded.

I left him behind,' he said. He did not
add that so far as it had been possible he had
taken with him nothing which should serve
as a reminder of the past from which he was
severing himself, as he thought, for ever.

He had received his visitor much as he
had been accustomed to do at Sandmoor, with
the indifference that is natural to a man
who has lost the habit of friendship, and
who had, besides, little in common with his
guest. He had always tolerated rather than
liked Mr. Erskine, whilst yet he had been at

times half won by the simple kindliness of the
young man to a corresponding cordiality.

Half an hour  three-quarters  had passed,
and though they were still sitting together,
and Erskine showed as yet no signs of taking
leave, the talk had never penetrated below
the surface. They had discussed public
affairs, recent events, even literature ; and
then Gilbert had ]pat some questions, only
half listening to the answers, about his sister
and the neighbourhood, and had heard that
Dorothy had been living, since his departure,
at Mace, in the charge of Lady Courtney.
At last, however, he spoke with a shade of
difference in his voice, his eyes upon the
ground.

I saw Lady Ralston's marriage in the
newspapers,' he said.

Ah, yes  that was nearly two years ago
answered Mr. Erskine. ' She is staying now,
with her baby. at her sister's.'

Gilbert knocked the ashes from his cigar 
his hand shook a little  before he answered.

Her sister's?' he said inquiringly

Miss Carrington. Did you not know it ?
they are half-sisters.'

Gilberts face never changed. His eyes
were still bent on the floor.

Yes, I know,' he said. A moment later
he spoke on a different subject.

Of himself  his past, his future  he said
no word, never so much as touching upon the
communication, important as it was, which
had been made to him that afternoon.
Erskine, for his part, though he had followed
his host's lead in conversation, and resisted
the inclination to bring it round to more
personal matters, felt vaguely uneasy. Now
that he was in a position to make his observations
at leisure, he was more struck than
before by the alteration in Yerschoyle's appearance.
It was one, however, which was

not altogether painful. Worn and wasted ashe
was, it almost seemed to the observer that
he looked younger than when he saw him
last, and that his expression had lost much
of the hard recklessness which had constituted
such a prominent characteristic of it formerly,,
returning to something more like what it
might be supposed to have been before his
quarrel and struggle with the world had set
its stamp upon his features.

At last, gathering up his courage, and
quitting the general topics they had been
discussing with somewhat languid interest
upon both sides, Mr. Erskine ventured to put
a direct personal question.

 And so you have passed the last two years-abroad
?' he said.

Abroad. As I told you, I only returned
to England ten days ago. I was always a
vagabond.'

And you have been ill ?'

Yes,' rather curtly ; ' I have been ill.
Will you have another cigar ?'

Erskine accepted the offer, declining, however,
now that he was fairly launched, to be
turned from his investigations by Yerschoyle's
evident impatience.

Have you been ill long ?' he asked. ' What
is the matter ?'

Some months.'

Gilbert spoke with even more brevity than
before. Erskine, however, persisted.

 Have you seen a doctor ?' he asked.

What, you are really bent upon going
on ? said Gilbert, giving in, however, at last,
and apparently resigning himself to his guest's
cross-examination. ' Yes ; I saw one a fortnight
ao;o.'

'And he '

Sent me to England. 1 was in the south
of France.'

Yerschoyle spoke with a peculiar smile.

At this time of year ? He must have
been mad. May I ask whether he also recommended
your walking about in the streets
in such weather as this ?'

Gilbert shrugged his shoulders ; then, apparently
changing his mind, he spoke in a
sliohtlv different tone.

Look here, Erskine he said, ' I do not
know why you take such an interest in my
concerns. It is very good of you  especially
as I can scarcely now claim to be considered
as one of your parishioners  though you will
excuse me for saying that I think, all the
same, I could have done as well without it.
Since, however, you seem to want the truth,
you shall have it  in confidence, of course.
The doctor I saw told me that in all human
probability I was done for.'

Erskine recoiled with a start.

What do you mean ?' he exclaimed.

Done for  dying. I thought so myself 

he only corroborated my own impressions.
It is heart and lungs. My mother, you know,
died of consumption at twenty-eight.'

And if it was so  if he was right  why
were you so mad as to return to London in
November ?' Erskine spoke almost angrily.
 Are you bent upon killing yourself ?'

Xo ; certainly not. Nature, besides, has
kindly taken the matter into her hands, and
saved me the trouble of even considering the
question. As for my reasons for coming back
to England, I came because I thought I should
like to make an end of it here  it was simply
a fancy I had. It could make very little
difference  the doctor himself allowed that.'

He was speaking with an absent smile ;
and Erskine, looking at him, perceived the
change which he had already noticed, marked
and emphasized. He did not doubt the truth
of what Yerschoyle had told him  it was
written in letters too legible for that ; and in it

39

he also read the interpretation of what had
before perplexed him. Instinctively he felt
that it was death's shadow which, passing over
his face, had smoothed away its bitterness, and
already begun to heal his quarrel with life.
He gazed at him for a few moments, agitated
and moved ; then the habit of his profession
reasserted itself.

Yerschoyle/ he said, faltering, ' if this is
true  if you are, as }'ou say, dying, have you
thought what it is ?'

Gilbert turned his eyes upon him with a
curious expression in them ; it was almost as
if he were faintly amused by the question.
It seemed, indeed, a strange one to be asked
of him to whom the answer was of an importance
so infinitely more pressing than to the
questioner  as if some one miles off had asked
of a man living in a powder-mill whether he
had taken into account the match which he
knew was set to explode it.

'1 have. thought of it he answered. 'It
is ceasing to live  that is the definition which
commends itself to me.'

It is more than that,' said Mr. Erskine.
He would have given worlds, poor fellow, for
the right to be silent. He was no priest by
nature  he felt no power nor strength to win
the sinner to repentance, and save his soul
alive; but just as a man of honour, made a
soldier against his will, and with no warlike
vocation, stands to his guns in the day of
battle, so he spoke now in the discharge of
what he took to be his duty. ' It means
more than ceasing to live. It means death,
and after that the judgment.'

He spoke blunderingly, abruptly, as was
natural to a man fulfilling an office which was
most distasteful, and for which he felt himself
eminently unfitted ; yet there was a certain
urgency in his appeal. Gilbert was still looking
at him, smiling and unoffended, perhaps

recognising his difficulty, and pitying him for
it. When he answered, it was only with a
quotation.

" Let me fall now into the hand of the
Lord ; and let me not fall into the hand of
man." David and I,' added Gilbert Yersclioyle,
speaking half to himself, 'are agreed.'

There was a short silence, and when he
spoke again he had dismissed the subject,
quietly but decidedly. He was visibly tired,
and soon after Erskine rose to take leave.

And what shall you do ?' he asked.
Surely, now, you will come back ?'

He paused suddenly, remembering that Sand-moor
was let, and in the hands of strangers,
and that Gilbert had now no home. If the
latter was conscious of his embarrassment he
took no notice of it.

I do not know what my plans will be,' he
said quietly. ' I am sure I need not ask you
not to mention to my sister or  others, that

VOL. II. 34

you have seen me  yet I should like your
promise

Erskine hesitated.

Think better of it,' he said. ' At least
your sister has a right to know that '

That is my affair answered Gilbert, interrupting
him rather shortly. ' Have I your
promise  neither to speak of me nor of my
illness ?'

There was no help for it. Erskine yielded
reluctantly, and giving the required pledge,
took his leave.

Left alone, Gilbert leant back in his chair
and pondered. So he had been cleared. He
stood, as regarded his character, as he had
stood when he had yielded to Eve's fearless
devotion and had let it win the day. Had he
been patient  so he thought now dreamily,
pain dulled by physical exhaustion  had he
been patient, had he possessed her faith, they
Avould have-been together now, fighting the

battle side by side, band in band, in which
she had entreated him to let her have a part,
defeated or victorious together. And instead,
what was the history of the last two years ?
He knew bis own, but what of hers? He
knew now, as he had at times suspected from
the first, in spite of himself, in spite of ibis
last interview with Patricia, that she had been
faithful to him; and such being the case, what
should he say of himself? Was it that be
had failed her, forsaken her, swayed by a fear
no less cowardly because it was not for himself
? Yet bow vain and purposeless was
such questioning now! He was cleared, it
was true, but deliverance bad come too late ;
the wrong, if wrong it bad been, was done.
He too, little as be bad suspected it at the
time or since, except in occasional flashes
such as that which bad led him to seek
Patricia, had fallen down and worshipped the
image  the idol of conventional honour  that

Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up ; he had
allowed the shams and cymbals of the world
to drown the other voices  even Eve's own ;
but it was done, irrevocable.

Erskine's words rang in his ears  ' Ever'
effort was made to find you, but in vain
How long had she waited, how long had she
hoped ? And now it was too late  too late.

And yet, granted that he had been wrong,
was it not better so ? had not good, as sometimes
happens, come out of evil? What had
he, at best, had to give that she would
not have been the worse for receiving? had
not the accusation, false though it had been,
come in time to save her? A little dialogue
that he had chanced to overhear one day,
and which at the time had struck him with a
significance never intended by the speakers,
recurred to his mind. ' A stain,' some one had
said, ' can be removed.' He had caught the
answer, ' But oftener the colour goes too.'



AVhat had been left in his life worthy of her
acceptance ?

At last, as the clock struck one, he rose
wearily.

At any rate, it is one of the things which
are beyond recall. It is taken out of our
hands.'

HE day after Mr. Erskine's visit
Gilbert was taken seriously ill.
It might have been the result of
the exposure to weather the day before, or
perhaps of unwonted excitement, or of the
two together ; but for some days he was completely
prostrated, and was forced for the first
time to submit to regular medical attendance
and care. The doctor who was called in to see
him was a clever, busy, matter-of-fact man, in
whom his present patient excited no particular
interest. He was clearly dying, and
though it was his business to protract the
process as much as possible, the case did not

hold the same interest for him as if the end
had not been predetermined. He visited
and did his best for him, and naturally
formed his own conclusions ; but he was nota
man who mentioned such conclusions unless
asked to do so, and as Gilbert put no question
as to his condition, he was silent.

The landlady, who, also busy, nevertheless
spared time from her avocations to bestow
some casual pity upon her lodger and his unfriended
condition, was inclined to be more
expansive, but she met with little encouragement.


Is there no one you would wish sent for
sir?' she asked him one day half curiously,
half sympathetically. * My lad Jim's a good
scholar. He could write any letters for you.
Is there nobody you would like to come and
see you ?'

Xo one,' answered Gilbert laconically,
comprehending both her question and the

meaning underlying it. ' If I should die,' he
added a moment after, indicating a despatch -
box on the table, ' my directions will be found
there.'

Lor, sir, you're not going to die I' said
Mrs. Freshened cheerfully, in the perfunctory
manner in which it is common to answer an
invalid in whom no particular interest is felt.
Gilbert made no reply. He himself thought
it unlikely, at least for the present, but he had
no wish to enter upon a discussion of his
chances with his landlady. The latter, for
her part, as she left the room, felt a slight
diminution of interest in her lodger, which
was perhaps not unnatural. She was a kind
woman, and would not have objected to have
had her sympathies drawn out had Gilbert
shown the slightest desire for them ; but as it
was, she felt thrown back upon herself and rebuffed,
and was disposed to let him alone for
the future, except as regarded his physical

wants  which was, indeed, what he would
most have desired.

As he lay alone, hour after hour, too weak
for reading or for long consecutive thought,
he felt no need of sympathy. He had never
been used to it, and he did not want it. In
those nights and days of pain and silence a
resolution was slowly and surely taking form
within him, shaping itself out of the past,
lighted up as it had been by Mr. Erskine's
information. Whether he had, as regarded
that past, done right or wrong; whether he
had, as he had persuaded himself at the time,
saved the woman who loved him from an evil
destiny ; or whether he had done her one of
the greatest wrongs a man can do a woman 
had won her love and left her  this question
he did not seek to decide. If it forced itself
upon him from time to time, he put it resolutely
aside with a determination born
partly of an instinctive sense that in his

present' condition it was one into which he
would do well not to look too closely, partly
of the reluctance which was natural to him to
discuss a question which was already unalterably
settled, whether for good or evil. It
was not with the 23ast that he had to do now,
but with the brief future which was all that
lay before him ; and with regard to that
future, lying for hours silent, his brows
drawn together in anxious thought, he was
arriving at a determination.

He would see Eve once more. Right or
wrong, he had left her ; right or wrong, he
would see her again. If it was with her as
Erskine's words had unconsciously implied, if
she had been too true, her loyalty too unfaltering,
to find the consolation he had laboriously
taught himself to believe she would have
found, then it could do her no harm to see
him once more; and for himself

'I must go,' he said, half aloud. ' Right or

strong, I must go. If I am to die, I must see
her once more.'

He recovered to a certain extent. By the
first week of December  about a fortnight,
that is, after Mr. Erskine's visit  he had regained
sufficient strength to resume, in some
degree at least, his ordinary habits ; and he
felt that if his determination was to be carried
out, the sooner it was done the better.

One afternoon, accordingly, he informed
Mrs. Freshened, to her undisguised astonishment,
that he was leaving London the next
day, paying no attention to her remonstrances
and the representations she thought it her
duty to make to him as to his imprudence in
attempting as yet to move.

You are very good,' he said, half smiling,,
as he cut her short ; ' but I do not think that
delay would mend matters.'

The day upon which he had settled for his
journey was fine, though a sharp frost had set

in the week before, and the air was keen and
cold. He got into an empty carriage, having
taken his ticket for King's Semple, the nearest
station to Norton s. He was going there ; as
to further plans or prospects, his mind was
a blank. During the last few weeks one idea
lead so entirely possessed him to the exclusion
of all others  that, namely, of seeing Eve Carrington
once more  and he had been so
uncertain as to the chances of its accomplishment,
that now that he was actually on his
way to carry it out, his horizon seemed
bounded by its fulfilment; he saw, tried to
see, nothing beyond.

At a station some miles from London,
another passenger got into the carriage which
Gilbert had hitherto had to himself ; a fresh-coloured
country lad of perhaps nineteen or
twenty, bright-faced and healthy, with strong,
sunburnt hands and clear blue eyes. He had
a fox-terrier with him, which he introduced

into the carriage with a word and laugh to
the guard, to whom he was evidently well
known, and a courteous apology to its occupant.


Gilbert only bowed ; he could not have
spoken. Suddenly and unexpectedly, with
the boy's entrance, a strange transformation
had taken place in him. Five minutes ago he
had been almost recklessly indifferent as to all
that had not to do with his present errand.
He knew that he was dying, he had felt so
certain of it that he had not even cared to
question the London doctor by whom he had
been attended ; but hitherto he had accepted
the fact as a matter of course, as, so to speak
a settled question. It had, indeed, scarcely
cost him a conscious effort to do so. He had
never feared death, nor had any undue clinging
to life ; when, as had once or twice been
the case, opportunity had offered, he had
never hesitated to brave the one and to risk

ALLEGIANCE.

the other with rash foolhardiness. Since his
illness he had never deceived himself, nor
indulged in the sanguine expectations of
recovery so common among those attacked by
his disease ; he had, as he had told Mr.
Erskine, known that he was dying, and had
accepted his doom manfully and without a
complaint. Yet now, suddenly, with strange
unexpectedness, fear of death had taken possession
of him, sprung upon him ' like an
firmed man.' As his eyes fell, carelessly at
erst, upon the boy, noting his perfect health,
his strong and joyous vitality, for the first
time a loncfino' woke in him, fierce and sickening,
for the same ; for the first time he turned,
with a desperate recoil, from the thought of
the enemy who was gaining upon him with
swift and steady footsteps.

Physical courage, whatever may be asserted
to the contrary, belongs to the lowest as well
as to the highest organisms ; nay, more certainly

to the former than to the latter. To
the brute and to the savage alike it comes by
nature, both from the sensitive bluntness of
their nerves, and because the imagination
Which lends half its horrors to death is wanting;
whilst in the case of higher and more
delicate organizations, it comes only because
will or duty dominates fear. There is no true
courage in the fearless ; the highest type
of it has to be won through the gateway
of terror. To Gilbert had come one of those
hours which, as has been said before, may
give the lie to a lifetime, and make the brave
man a coward. A horror of great darkness
had suddenly overtaken him, paralysing his
senses ; he was afraid. Death, death ! Was
it possible that he was being borne blindly,
unresisting, towards it ; was nearing it with
every breath that he drew, as surely as that the
train was bearing him westward. A positive
horror took possession of him, numbing

his faculties, catching at his breath, turning
him sick and cold.

It was a terror that was purely physical,
that had nothing to do with things spiritual,
with repentance for the past or with fear for
the future, with the thought of God or of
judgment to come ; neither was he at that
moment concerned with the details of the life
he was leaving. It was life, simple life, life
on any terms, to which he was clinging with a
desperate tenacity ; to life itself, apart from
what it gives. To Gilbert, just then, simple
vitality, whatever might be its accompaniments,
its pains, its disappointments, was the
one thing desirable, the only thing worth
having. It seemed to him, in the half-delirium
of that terrible moment, as if its conditions,
its accidents, were as immaterial compared
to the thing itself as the nature of the
food he receives to a man dying of starvation.
To live, to breathe, to be, not in some strange

and spiritual region, but in this common
OA'eryday world, to which he was accustomed],
which was his home  that was what he
wanted ; to have life before him like the boy
opposite who was whistling under his breath
as he played with his dog.

Had he been a woman he would have wept,
Avould probably have prayed and entreated
Heaven to work a miracle in his behalf.
Being a man, he clenched his hands and set
his teeth, and wearied God with no supplications
which he knew to be vain. There was
nothing' to be done to avert the doom that
was coming upon him, and he knew it ; what
George Sand has called Agonies du reams was
laid upon him ; he could not struggle, like the
drowning swimmer, for life ; neither could lie
fight like the soldier; he had simply to wait,
like the condemned criminal, till the sentence
should be carried into effect. Death seemed
to him at that moment like a personal enemy

VOL. II. 35

who held him in his clutches ; not, indeed, one
open and visible, with whom he could have
wrestled and fought, but a stealthy foe
armed to the teeth and stealing upon him in
the darkness, helpless and bound.

He looked out of the window. The train
was rushing through country every landmark
of which had been familiar to him from
boyhood ; he remembered the very sensations
with which he had been accustomed to watch
the landscape fly past as he returned home for
the holidays ; he felt, by one of those vivid
realistic flashes of memory which everyone has
experienced, the blood bounding in his veins
with anticipation of the keen delight which
the liberty of even his unsympathetic home
afforded ; he recollected the names, the very
look of the stations which they were passing,
the trimly kept gardens, the creepers on the
walls. Was it possible that he was seeing them
for the last time, that he, Gilbert Yerschoyle,

the boy of whom he was thinking, who had
never known a clay's illness, was dying? He
felt stifled and oppressed ; his breath came
with difficulty, and leaning forward he put
out his hand to open the window.

For a moment he failed in his attempt to
lower the glass ; it was stiff*, and his fingers 
he noticed it with a dull surprise  were
shaking. He stretched out his other hand.
The movement attracted the attention of
the lad opposite, and he looked up from his
dog.

 Do you want the window open ?' he asked
in his pleasant young voice, forcing it down
with his strong fingers without a moment's
difficulty. ' Are you sure you are wise?  it is
bitterly cold.'

He had cast a kindly glance at his companion.
Both the action and the question
struck Gilbert, in his present mood, like a
blow.

352

Thank you he answered mechanically.
I do not feel it.'

The keen frosty au* blew in his face, reviving
and bracing him. He drew a deep
breath like a man wakening from a terrible
dream, who, though still confused and bewildered,
finds himself once more at liberty to
speak and move. He shook himself mental',
and looked romid. What had he been feeling
 what was the meaning of it ? Was
it fear ? was it  the word suggested itself
involuntarily  was it cowardice? As the
numbing and paralyzing sensation which had
oppressed him began to pass off, it was
succeeded by one scarcely less painful  by a
sharp sense of shame and a bitter humiliation.
Was it possible, he asked himself half incredulously,
that he who, had he thought about it
at all, would no more have dreamt of priding
himself upon his courage than upon any other
natural and inalienable attribute of his manhood

 was it possible that he had been the
victim of a degrading cowardice, of an unmanly
fear of death? Steadily he looked the
facts in the face and set himself to grapple
with them, neither denying them nor seeking
to excuse himself.

The train was already approaching the
station at which he was to stop, but before it
was reached the struggle was over  he had
conquered; that short fierce paroxysm of terror
Alas left behind, crushed down, become  a
thing of the past. He still felt dizzy and exhausted,
no change had taken place in his
state or his expectations ; but his courage, his
nerve, had returned  he was ready to face
what was to come.

He leant back in his corner, unconscious or
heedless of the bitter wind blowing in upon
him. He did not know that his fellow-traveller,
who had transferred his attention
from the fox-terrier to himself, was regarding

him with covert interest; nor that physical
exhaustion, coupled with the lassitude consequent
on a supreme mental crisis lived
through and conquered, had left upon his face,
worn as it was, a spiritual repose foreign to
its usual character, and which even attracted
the curiosity of the lad. Suffering is not
without its own spiritualized power ; it is not
only the Stephens of the church whose faces,
amid the stones of their martyrdom, are as
those of angels.

It was already four when he got out at the
station which was his destination, and the
short-winter's day was fast closing in. He
nodded to the boy, who had bent forward to
open the door, and now looked after him compassionately.


Dying  poor chap !' he observed to himself,
before returning to his more cheerful
meditations. ' It is hard luck  such a good-looking
fellow, too.'

Meanwhile, having left the platform, Gilbert
stood looking round. There was no cab in
attendance, nor any chance  so the solitary-porter
the station boasted assured him  of his
procuring any sort of conveyance, unless he
were willing to wait for a considerable and
indefinite time. For a moment he hesitated,
inquiring the distance to Norton, which, as
it happened, he had never approached from
this direction ; then he made up his mind.

A mile and a half, is it ?' he said. ' Thanks ;
I will walk.'

He turned away, and set off at once. It
was intensely cold. Here in the country
there had been a very slight fall of snow,
which lay like thin hoar-frost on the bare
hedges and leafless branches ; far above in the
darkening blue of the cloudless sky a crescent
moon shone faintly out. The air as he
breathed it caught his breath ; underneath his
feet the ground was as hard as iron, except

where here and there a thin coating of ice
crackled beneath his tread. Before he had
walked three-quarters of a mile, he began to
wonder whether he had not miscalculated his
strength, whether he would succeed in reaching
Norton on foot. Yet it was only a
month since he had been in the constant habit
of walking twice the distance with ease. His
breath came with ever-increasing difficulty,
laboured and panting. As the twilight
deepened, and moonlight gradually replaced
the lingering daylight, it dazzled his eyes ;
and more than once he missed his footing,
and stumbled on the rough rutty road. From
time to time he stood still and took breath
before again pressing on. Another half-mile
had been traversed  he must be nearly
there . . . the road was straight, he could
not miss it, so the porter had said . . . Could
he hold on . . . was it much farther ? Again
he stopped to gather strength, looking round.

Yes ; he knew Moliere he was now  a few
more yards and he would have gained the
hjwer gate . he would be there in another
live minutes . if only it were not so
desperately, cruelly cold . if he could get
his breath. When he reached the gate he
would rest.

He had reached it. He stood at the foot of
the hill, half-way up which Xortons was built;
already he could dimly distinguish the lights
in the windows. Stumbling forward with a
last effort, he leant his arms upon the upper
bar of the gate. A new fear, a new misgiving,
had laid hold of him now that he was
so near the accomplishment of his purpose,
though, like everything else, in the mist of
exhaustion which was creeping over his brain,
it was vague and incoherent. Should he find
her there  he was confusedly questioning 
was she true to him if she were there ?
Erskine had said no, he could not remember

what Erskine had said  some one had said
she was to marry Courtney. Two years since
he had seen her  two years since their parting
 or was it yesterday ? What had she
said ? ' After God, you '  those were her
words . . . What had they meant ? he could
not remember . . . Was she close to him
now  standing just out of sight  he could
not see, it was growing so dark ! A kind of
drowsy bewilderment was stealing over him.
For a moment his head fell forward on his
folded arms, and his eyes closed.

It was just then that a little whispering
breeze got up. It crept in among the trees,
and stirred some laurel-bushes that stood
near, so that the thin coating of snow, which
covered their smooth flat leaves, slid off with
a rustling sound; and it blew in Gilbert's
face, cutting like a knife, and rousing him
from the stupor into which he was falling.

He raised his head, and looked blankly*

before him. Had lie been asleep  here, out
of doors  in the dusk of the evening; ?
Where was he ? Then, suddenly, his brain
cleared ; he remembered where he was  why
he had come. He could scarcely breathe.
For a moment as he stood clutching for
support at the wood of the gate and gasping
for breath ; it seemed to him that death was
coming upon him there  then ; another
minute and the acute agony of the breathless -
ness was over, and, rallying his strength, he
had pushed open the gate and passed in.

HERE was a musical party at
Norton that afternoon. It was
a somewhat unusual event, and due
both to the presence of Lady Ralston there,
and to the fact that any form of society, of
howsoever uncongenial a type, was preferable
in her eyes to none. She had, therefore, suggested
to her sister the advisability of inviting
her neighbours to the house.

You do nothing in the way of society,

Eve,' she had said. ' There are duties which

everyone owes to the neighbourhood in

which they live, however dull it may be.'

Eve had assented to the proposal without

difficulty. She had, indeed, in these davy
become very acquiescent. It had ever been
her habit to be passive rather than active,
and the feature had become more marked of
late, to be slow in asserting her will on
trivial or indifferent matters, and nov it
seemed that there were few which were not
indifferent to her.

The two years which had elapsed since she
had parted from Gilbert had worked little
outward change in Eve Carrington. She was
still characterized by the same somewhat faint
and shadowy beauty, by the same still and
quiet grace. If her manner had become a
shade colder than of old, it had not lost its
gentle courtesy ; if her eyes and the lines of
her mouth indicated a deeper sadness than
that already stamped there by her early
sorrow, it was one that sought and found
no other language and expression. Ever
unaccustomed to claim or desire sympathy,

she would have shrank from it now as from
a touch upon an open wound; and had it
been otherwise, it is for the most part those
who but half believe what they profess who
are eager to proclaim the melancholy secrets
life has taught them. Those to whom
sorrow's creed ' has become by experience the
profound and governing reality by which
their views of life are shaped and coloured,
are not impatient to make proselytes. She
was not bitter, nor proud, nor repellent ; she
simply stood apart, separated from the hurrying
cheerful world by an intangible yet impassable
barrier, which few had courage, even
if they did not lack the inclination, to try to
surmount.

Since gradually, after months of patient
and vain hoping against hope, of watching
and looking for tidings which never came, she
had finally given up hope of Gilbert's return,
she had, as it were, stood aside from life and

let it pass her by. If it still held its joys
and its sorrows for her, its hopes and fears,
she stood a little above and beyond them all
its fangs, so to speak, had been drawn ;
she had viewed it with the quiet quasi-indifference
of one who believes, rightly or
wrongly, that it has done its worst for her.
She had not rebelled ; she had rather learnt
patience and courage, but they were the
courage and the patience that spring from
the grave of hope.

Life was still full to her of mysteries  as
full as when, even then with a mournful
wonder, through Gilbert, and reading them
graven in his face and in his life, she had first
pondered the problems it presents ; but there
was a difference. Then, with a gentle boldness
and a pure faith she had dreamed that
the mysteries might become plain, the walls
of mist and fog which closed her avenues be
pierced. Xow, she knew it would never be

SO. She was patient, but patient not because
she saw, but because she was blind ; and submission,
absolute and unquestioning, was
the wisdom life had taught her. Others
might solve the problems, others find the keys
she had neither the arrogance nor the presumption
to believe that where she owned
herself defeated they might not succeed  but
not lie. What had once seemed possibilities
now wore the garb of impossibilities, yet of
impossibilities which had once been possible.
The fortresses were now impregnable, the
portcullis lowered, the drawbridge raised, but
entrance had once been possible. Xow, if
she was ever to enter those doors and discover
those secrets, ever to comprehend the justice
God deals out to men, she knew it would be
not in this life, but in some shadowy and
spiritual future. For the present she did not
rebel, but her very acquiescence was the sign
and seal of her defeat.

Miss Carrington some one said, looking
at her this afternoon as she moved amongst
her guests  it was the painter Paul Vassals
with whom she had been acquainted at Nice,
and who, staying at present in the neighbourhood,
had made his way over to Norton 
Miss Carrington has lived too long amongst
shadows ; she is becoming a beautiful ghost
herself  more unsubstantial every day. A
little flesh and blood has its advantages.'

Mr. Paul Vassals had lately had a fortune
left to him, and having consequently forsaken
art, married and settled down in life, he spoke
nth just the slight tinge of asperity not
unnaturally belonging to the would-be idealist
who, finding himself at last, notwithstanding
the aspirations and dreams of his youth,
landed with safety and comfort in a world
of materialism, still casts occasional glances of
half regret back to the land of expectation
which he has abandoned for the sake of

VOL. ir. 36

ALLEGIANCE.

the present advantages of the fleshpots of
Egypt.

I was in love with her once myself  for
five minutes,' he added meditatively, to the
listener to whom he was addressing himself
with the confidential candour belonging to
his class.

He shrugged his shoulders as he spoke, and
turned to make his way towards the circle
Which surrounded Lady Ealston. Patricia,
though he would have scorned to acknowledge
it, was a more congenial companion to the
present Mr. Vassall than her sister.

It was not a large party. Patricia's invitations
had been select rather than numerous.
The Courtneyss were of course there, with
Dorothy Yerschoyle, now nearly grown up
and become tall and slim, though otherwise
little changed, with the same pale hair and
precise manners. Cyril, as usual, was spending
his time for the most part near Eve.

People had grown tired of speculating about
the two, and even Lady Courtney had begun
to acquiesce reluctantly in the terms upon
which they stood, having neverac cording to
her son's express request  heard of his attempt
to alter them.

Let us go back to the past,' he had said to
Eve, not long after that attempt had been
made. ' Try to forget that unlucky episode,
and then there may be a chance that I shall
forget it too.'

Eve had willingly fallen in with his suggestion.
Whether he had forgotten, nobody but
Sir Cyril himself knew.

The Erskiness, too, were there, and General
Cartwright's loud dictatorial tones made themselves
heard from time to time above the buzz
of voices. Just now as Miss Carrington, her
duties for the moment over, was leaning back
in her chair listening half amused, half absent,
to Courtney's comments upon those present,

362

his voice caught her ear, and she lost the
thread of her companion's remarks.

Patricia looked up as Vassals approached,
and greeted him with a cordiality suggestive
of the suspicion that an excuse for turning
from the country neighbours with whom she
had been keeping up a somewhat languid conversation
was not unwelcome.

Ah, Mr. Vassals,' she said, ' it is long since
we met. Has life gone well with you since ?
I hear you are married.'

Then is not your question already
answered ?' he said, dropping lazily into a
chair at her side. ' I am  as you have been
correctly informed  married.'

She raised her eyebrows with a smile in
which a dash of insolence mingled with
amusement. Patricia had always been careful
to regulate her behaviour upon expediency,
and it was observable that since her marriage
she had allowed herself more latitude

in the matter of manners than before that
event.

Some people would say that the reply  in
these days  is not exhaustive she observed ;
but no doubt you speak from your own
experience

Vassall was a little annoyed. His marriage,
had he spoken the exact truth, had been
so absolute and complete a success that he had
a vague sense  though to do him justice it
took no definite form or shape  that it might
be considered a trifle prosaic and wanting in
the elements of excitement and interest which
enriched those of less fortunate men. He was,
it is true, content; but in this case too, he felt
that the land of expectation which he had
forsaken had advantages of its own, incompatible
with the peace and security of his
present position. It was, perhaps, the unacknowledged
reflection which lent a certain
sharpness to his retort.

*0f course our views on these subjects are
based, to some extent at least, upon personal
experience,' he observed smoothly, with a
glance that suggested the .idea that Lady
Ralston's might have been less fortunate than
his own. ' In each case, however, it is, by the
nature of it, limited

Patricia was quite disconcerted, though
she did not attempt to ignore his insinuation.

All, life always goes well with me,' she said
gaily. ' I have elevated happiness into an art,
and I flatter myself it is one in which I excel.'

Mr. Erskine had sauntered up a few minutes
before, and had caught her last words, though
ignorant of their special application.

There are better things than happiness,' he
observed, speaking once more not altogether
unprofessionally. Patricia shook her head and
laughed.

No,' she said. ' Of course it is your duty
to tell us so, but even you do not believe it.

It is only as to the kind best worth having
that we differ. In one form or another it is
the only thing worth living for, and we all
think so.'

Do we ?' he said, half sighing.  Then some
of us must confess that life is a failure.'

Mr. Vassall answered for her.

That he said, ' Lady Ralston would tell
you, is because we do not manage our affairs
well, and she is right in the main. Success
and failure mean the same thing, provided
we do not know when we are beaten. Success
may be summed up in one attribute  -a bad
memory. What does it after all signify that
our best friend is lying dead in the next
room, if only the wall is thick enough
between us ?'

He spoke with a touch of sarcasm, yet
somewhat at random. He was, in fact, thinking
not so much of what he was saying, as of
certain words of Eve's, suddenly recalled to

him, in which she, too, had once professed
her belief that life was a failure, and remembering
his conviction that she had given utterance,
perhaps unconsciously, to the result of
a personal experience. Looking across at her
now with a revival of the interest he had felt
at the time, he was sure that he had been right.
Moved by a sudden impulse, he rose and
crossed the room. He had perceived that she
was for the moment alone, and that the opportunity
was favourable for putting his conviction
to the test. He came up, and bending
over her, spoke in his usual smooth, well-modulated
voice, pitched so as to reach her
ear alone.

Do you remember, Miss Carrington  yet
why should you?  I should rather say /
remember that it is just two years since we
met last. 1 was recalled suddenly to England
the very day after I had the pleasure of dining
at your sister's.'

He was looking at her closely, and lie
fancied, but was not sure, that her face lost a
little colour. She made no reply.

Do you remember,' he went on, ' it '

She interrupted him, not hurriedly, but with
a certain strain in her voice.

It,' she said  ' it is a long time ago.'

Her hands had been lying loosely together
on her knee. He noticed, with the observant
e}'e of an artist, that for a moment they were
locked together, then fell apart.

Too long for you to remember?' he questioned
quietly, still observing her. ' / recollect
that evening well. You were tired, Miss
Carrington; the heat had knocked you up.
1 ou

He stopped. The girl had risen and stood
resting her hand upon a table near, whilst she
looked straight at him, a strange blank expression
in her blue eyes.

'I beg your pardon,' she said; 'you will

excuse me, Mr. Vassals. I  Lady Courtney
'

She smiled mechanically as she turned and
moved away to where, at a little distance,
Lady Courtney sat. Aassall stood still a
moment watching her, surprised and half
repentant. His test, he felt, had answered
beyond his hopes, but he did not feel proud
of his success. He was moving with the
intention of rejoining Lady Ralston, when he
stopped short.

The door had opened, and some one stood
on the threshold, looking before him uncertainly,
as if dazzled and blinded by the sudden
light. When Vassals glance fell upon him
some of the guests had already seen him, not
knowing Who he was ; others had recognised
him, but no one came forward to meet him.
Even Erskine, startled and taken by surprise,
remained where he was at the farther end of
the room, whilst Dorothy uttered a low cry
ff

under her breath. General Cartwright alone
moved forward with an indistinct sense that
it was his duty, in the absence of any male
representative of the house, to confront and
interrogate the intruder.

Eve, standing with her back to the door,
was almost the last to be aware of the newcomer's
presence. She had just taken an
empty cup from Lady Courtney's hands, when
she became conscious of the hush that had
fallen upon the room, broken only by General
Cartwright's voice, and turning quickly, saw
the stranger still standing motionless in the
doorway. The next moment the cup had
fallen shattered to the ground, as Gilbert's
name broke from her lips; she had sprung
forward and was in his arms.

Neither spoke. In the room, too, there was
dead silence. The clatter of voices had ceased,
and only the great clock in the corner counted
out the seconds. Cyril Courtney had turned

abruptly away with a low muttered word,
and stood looking out into the gathering
darkness. No one noticed him. The attention
of all was riveted on the two. Perhaps
ten seconds passed before Eve turned, still
not moving from where she stood close to his
side, and faced them.

However it might be with him, even at
that moment, when for one brief breathing-space
and whatever might come after, the
longing and the patience of years had found
rest and fulfilment, site had not forgotten that
the man she loved stood face to face with his
accusers, with the world which had judged and
condemned him, had flung his past in his face
and bade him stand apart from it. Rather
the consciousness that it was so, and that now
at last it was granted to her openly, in the
sight of that world, to range herself upon his
side, thrilled her through every nerve and
fibre. The sight of General Cartwright,

silenced and dismayed, the question she had
overheard arrested on his lips, was not needed
to remind her that once again Gilbert stood
at the bar. Her face, as she lifted it and
confronted the curious spectators, was lit with
a fire they had never seen there before,
as if a beautiful dead mask were suddenly
flushed with life and colour. Her voice,
low as it was, thrilled and rang through the
room.

You have asked him why he is here,'
she said ; she was addressing General Cartwright,
but her eyes flashed beyond him, over
the rest. ' You have asked him why he is
here.' For a moment it seemed that she
would have taken the reply upon herself;
then she broke off. ' Answer them, Gilbert,'
she said  as once assail she turned to him
indignation and scorn died out and were
forgotten  ' answer them, Gilbert, at last.
Tell them what you would not let me tell

them ; tell them why you are here  say it is
because I loved you.'

And so we leave them. Disgraced, guilty,

condemned  he is all three ; nothing is

changed. Yet the world, in spite of itself,

sometimes at least must needs confess that

the old poet was right, and that in these

latter days no less than when he said it

first.

Love doth sing

As sweetly in a beggar as a king.'

