OF Thou

N I Verity

or ILLINOIS


C 892.3-

V. I

By ANNIE THOMAS

(Mrs. Pender Clip),
author of " denis donne," " played out," " eyre of benton," etc.

I A THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :

Tinsel BROTHERS, 8, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.

1882.

\AU Rights Reserved']

malcontents



rilAP. PAGE

I.  Mrs. IIeatiierley's Garden Party . . , . i

II.  The Bishop's Daughter 19

III.  " I Shall Never Forget You ; Never ! " .-39

IV.  Is She Jealous ? 57

V.  Enter Lily. Exit Ethel 78

VI.  A Father's Prayer and Plan . . . 97

VII.  Fanny Yearns for ? 114

VIII.  Mother and Daughter 131

IX.- Sisterly Zeal 149

ji X.  Bale Coppice 172

C XL A Plot 197

 XII.  And its Consequences 215

'P XIII.  At Lamington Hall 224.

CHAPTEE I.

MRS. Feathered's GARDEN PARTY.

IIALTEE, I may as well tell you
/H that mother thinks we have been
very premature and foolish."

"And I may as well tell you, Ethel, that
your mother shows great want of consistency
in saying so*'

Mother doesn't go in for being consistent,"
the girl laughs, joyously ; " she speaks and
acts on impulse as a rule, and this morning
she told me she had one of her strong
intuitions against our being engaged ; you
see your practice isn't much yet, Walter ;
mother's only prudent after all."

"And do you want to be prudent too,
Ethel ? " he asks, and his voice trembles
a little as he manfully strives to steady it.

VOL. I. B

His feelings are being cruelly assailed by the
remarks which the girl to whom he has been
engaged a week is repeating so carelessly.

She laughs again, but her mirth is not
quite spontaneous.

I don't want to plunge into poverty, I
must admit."

Poverty ! a day or two ago you were
willing enough to face the future with me,
darling ; what has changed you ? Your
mother was satisfied with the prospect I
offered then ; what has made her dissatisfied
with it now ? I can give you a good home,
surround you with every comfort." He
pauses abruptly, for Ethel's eyes and attention
are evidently wandering back to a
group on the lawn, the centre of Which is
a young, handsome man of unmistakably
good form," to whose utterances all the
girls who grace Mrs. Heath erle's garden
party are listening with almost too flattering
attention.

"Who's that fellow?" Walter Gifford
the young surgeon, who has within the last
six months made himself a medical power in

this district  asks pugnaciously, and Ethel
Heatherley answers, in a state of tremulous
excitement,

"Don't you know? that is Lord Manus
Boyne  the Marquis of Monks town's second
son.

Now I know why your mother has grown
prudent so suddenly," Mr. Gilford says, quietly.
Then he takes Ethel's small hands in his, and
holds her fast while he says, " Why has Mrs.
Heatherley got that good-looking boy here to
dazzle all you girls ? he's a young scamp,
Ethel, sent here to do penance at poor old
Townley's, for having been a naughty boy
at Oxford ; he has a courtesy title and eighty
pounds a-year, and your mother wants you to
throw me over for him!"

You're very rude, Walter," Ethel says,
her cheeks growing crimson in a condemnatory
way at once ; " mother has asked him
here as she always asks Mr. Townley's pupils ;
she can't help his being attentive and handsome
and having a title, and  and how do
you dare to imply that dear mother is a
match-maker ? "

B 2

Don't get savage, Ethel "

Then don't you be jealous ! "

As the girl says this, there flutters towards
them one of the prettiest and youngest-looking
of matrons. Mrs. Heatherley, who has a
well-grown daughter of twenty, looks at the
first glance little more than thirty herself,
for she has the fair beauty and the slenderness
of limb which makes middle-age pass
for youth.

Dressed to perfection to-day in pink sateen
with pockets and cuffs and piping of ruby
velvet, the pretty blonde widow commands
almost as much admiration as does her beautiful
brunette daughter Ethel, as she flits
hither and thither on her closely-shaven lawn,
seeing to the amusement and well-being of
her guests.

She has achieved a great social success.
The lord-lieutenant of the county and his
wife are here, and the Bishop of Atherton
Towers and his daughter; and, indeed, everybody
who is anybody in all the region round
has accepted her invitation for lawn-tennis
and strawberries and cream this day. But

she feels a crumple in her rose-leaf! Her
only child has just before wilfully' engaged
herself to a hard-working young country
surgeon, and now a marquis's son has come
and found her fair.

Such a marquis's son too ! It is all very
well for malignant envy and jealousy to sneer,
and hint that the Marquis of Monkstown
derives his income from Irish property  the
rents of which are not paid in these days.

Mrs. Heatherley knows better. His lordship
is no mere feckless, improvident, out-elbows
Irish peer ! Mrs. Heatherley has it
on Mrs. Townley's authority that he has todo,
surreptitiously, but remunerative, with
indigo and coffee, and that he can snap his
fingers at his non-rent-paying tenants. The
eldest son. Lord E. Kenmare, is delicate, if
not imbecile, and Lord Marcus is the second
son  and  well 

"A coronet would become Ethel well, and
it's not with my consent that she shall throw
herself away on a mere country practitioner,"
the ambitious lady tells herself; and immediately
afterwards she makes that remark to

Ethel, as to their having been very premature
and foolish in enfjaa:ine themselves to one
another, which Ethel has frankly repeated
to her lover.

As Mrs. Heatherley flutters up to the
young pair, into the music of whose love
and contentment she has introduced a discordant
strain, she looks so gladly and gaily
unconscious of having said or done anything
antagonistic to Mr. Gifford's interests, that he
is almost inclined to believe that she is as well
pleased with the engagement as she professed
herself to be at first. Such a dear little airy
impulsive woman ! So evidently quick to feel,,
and prompt to act as her feelings dictate !
Her future son-in-law can but admire hers
and think that his Ethel has perverted
her mother's meaning, rather than think
Mrs, Heatherley is either inconsistent, or foolish
enough to wish to displace him for Lord
Marcus Boyne.

Her first words make him change this
view of things.

"My dear Mr. Gifford," she begins, in her
bright, electrical, young Away, "(/o forgive me

for putting your interest before your pleasure ;
I am going to take you away from Ethel, and
introduce you to the Bishop and Miss Templeton
: he is a martyr to the gout, you
know, the dear old thing, and if you are
called in at the Palace, the whole of Aller-ton
Towers will be sending for you ; Ethel,
Miss Templeton has been sitting alone for the
last ten minutes ! I can't be everywhere,
can I ? " she continues, appealingly ; " so
you must sacrifice yourself a little to our
guests."

The Bishop hasn't the gout at the present
moment, so he don't want me, and Miss
Templeton is exercising her maidenly wiles
on Townley's new cub, so she doesn't want
Ethel," Walter Gifford says, in a way that
implies, under these circumstances, he means
to keep Ethel to himself  apart from the
others  a little longer.

Mrs. Heatherley makes a face expressive
of excruciating suffering, and then explains
the cause of it.

It would give me intense pain if the
St. Justss and the Bishop remark that my

daughter neglects her social duties," she says,
seriously ; " and as Ethel would not wish me
to feel pain or annoyance on her account,
she will do as I wish her, of course ; and
you really must let me introduce you to
his lordship."

She* puts a coaxing hand on the young
man's arm as she speaks, and he feels himself
being slowly but surely propelled towards
the ecclesiastical potentate whose patronage
she professes to be anxious to secure for him.
Meantime, he sees Ethel going off in the
direction of Miss Templeton, who is bending
a gracious ear to all the folly it pleases
Lord Marcus to utter. Walter Gifford's 
heart whispers to him, that
not for many minutes longer will the Bishop's
daughter have the opportunity of so visibly
condescending to a mere man. For Ethel
has the winning power to a rare degree,
and Walter knows, from sweetly bitter experience,
that it is not in her gracious nature
to refrain from exercising it.

He is introduced to the Bishop, who is
urbane to, but evidently uninterested in, him ;

in spite of the eulogistic words Avhicli Mrs.
Heatherley speaks of him.

My lord, allow me to introduce a friend
of mine, Mr. Gifford, one of the few people
Who makes this wilderness of Atherton endurable
and pleasant to me."

In response to this direct call upon his
proverbial urbanity, the Bishop smiles briefly,
says " he is happy, he is sure, to make the
acquaintance of anyone who is fortunate
enough to find favour in Mrs. Heatherley's
eyes ; " and then, having been previously
apprised as to the calling of the young
man, who is now supposed to be a suppliant
for his favour, goes on to say that he hopes
he finds the climate salubrious and the
population healthy."

The instinct of self-preservation makes
me regret that I am able to answer your
lordship's hopes satisfactorily," Walter says,
savagely ; for Ethel, Miss Templeton, and
Lord Marcus Boyne have just sauntered upto
the group of Which he is one, and he
sees a look of merrily-malicious amusement
in Ethel's brown velvet eyes, at the way in

which her mother is striving to make him
perform for patronage.

"It's just Hke papa always to say the
wrong thing to people of that sort," Miss
Templeton mutters to Lord Marcus, and
Ethel hears the words and understands
their full meaning.

Her colour rises with her generous wrath.
Shall she stand by and hear the position of
her lover  the man to whom her troth is
plighted !  assailed, without saying one word
of rebuke ? or shall she spare the assailant,
who is her guest, according to the dictates of
hospitality ? For a moment she wavers, then
she says :

'' What sort of people does the Bishop
say the right thing to, Miss Templeton"'

Oh, to our own class, or the very poor,
papa is always happy in his expressions, and just
what he should be in manner ; but to people of
that sort " (and Miss Templeton, as she speaks,
nods her head towards the young surgeon)
"the Bishop is apt to be uncomfortable."

Local apothecary, isn't he ? " Lord Marcus
asks, tersely.

Yes," Ethel says, facing him in her perfect
prettiness and irreproachable style, " that, if
you please to call him so ; and something
else, as I please to call him ; the man
who is going to marry me, by-and-bye ! 
my ' sweetheart,' in our plain old country
vulgar tongue."

The young fellow she addresses is very
handsome, very thoroughbred, very fascinating
and dazzling in his gay, bright way,
but he is very boyish still! Consequently,
he bursts into a loud, rather derisive laugh,
and says:

Come, now. Miss Heatherley, don't
chaff a fellow too much ; you going to marry
a ' local practitioner,' that's too awfully awful
a joke."

But I am' Ethel is saying, with steady
severity, when her mother again intervenes.

Flitting up in the most guileless way possible,
the active little parent-bird is by the
side of the brave but injudicious young
one in a moment.

"Ethel, dear. Lady St. Just was saying just
now, she had not spoken a word to you today

; go to her, my child : Miss Templeton
and Lord Marcus" (this with ever so sweet a
smile) " will excuse you, I am sure. Lady St.
Just is quite another mother to my child," the
vivacious little hostess says, fluttering in between
her two guests, and contriving to direct
Lord Marcus's attention to the graceful way
in which Ethel is crossing the lawn towards
martial-looking Lady St. Just.

Then she's prepared to adopt 'Sawbones,'
too, I suppose ? " Lord Marcus says, imprudently.
He has yet to learn that Mrs.
Heatherley can snub as well as she can
court.

What a nice, unsophisticated boy you
are," she says, innocently ignoring the fact
that youth objects to few things so much as
having itself forced crudely into the fierce
light of sarcastic observation; "it's an old
joke from Pickwick to call a surgeon a 'saw-bones'"
she continues, in an explanatory
tone, to Miss Templeton ; isn't it refreshing
to meet with any young man hi these days
who is sufficiently world-worn to quote such
nearly-forgotten Witticisms? "

Her tone is so full of feminine kindness as
she speaks her biting words, that Lord Marcus
is undecided whether he ousht to hate
her for the rudeness, which may be unintentional,
and which is making him smart, or
like her for the liking she expresses so
openly for him ! Eventually he decides in
favour of doing the latter, for, besides having
the claim to manly toleration of being a
pretty woman still, she is Ethel's mother!
And already his heart has gone out to Ethel,
with a young man's pure, adoring, but still
passionate love.

So, with the courtesy of his caste, he accepts
the snub so gracefully and graciously,
that Mrs. Heatherley is half inclined to regret
having given it to him,

"If you had called me 'vulgarly malicious,'
instead of ' nice and unsophisticated,' you
would have been nearer the mark, Mrs.
Heatherley," he says, with proud boyish candour.
"I won't err again in your estimation
at least, not in that way."

"And on my side I promise to look very leniently
on your errors," Mrs. Heatherley says,

softly, but not so softly but that Miss Templeton
hears the words, and malignantly repeats
them, by-and-bye, to her right-reverend father,
whom she undutifully suspects of a desire to
change his state, whenever he sees much of
the late Mr. Heatherley's agreeable and good-looking
little relict.

Meantime, the onus of sustaining a conversation
with a man who evidently labours
strenuously to converse with him, is becoming
a burden, heavier than he can bear, to Walter
Gifford. With that fatal perspicuity, which
is one of the gifts which become curses to
true love, he sees all that Ethel is doing, and
all that Ethel's mother is meaning for her.
He sees her drawn into the magic circle which
surrounds fiercely-aristocratic old Lady St.
Just, who from her heights of age and rank,
treats Ethel and Lord Marcus as boy and girl,
and thus gives them the opportunity of being
more intimate and familiar than they otherwise
would have been. Though he does not
hear the words they speak, for the Bishop
beams at him at brief intervals, he can feel
the arrangements for future meetings that are

being made with "her ladyship's cognisance and
sanction. His Ethel will be riding and dancing
and playing tennis with this young lordling,
whom in his heart he is calling " an arrogant
beast of a boy," in places to which he
Walter Gifford  will have no right of access
! He sees it all now ! Her mother's recantation
of the cordial assent she had given
at first to their engagement ; the motive for
making the effort to get the St. Justss and the
Bishop to this garden party, in order that
Ethel may get return invitations to the set in
which Lord Marcus will revolve ; the reason
why always charmingly-dressed Ethel is more
charmingly dressed than ever to-day  all
these things are seen and understood by him
with horrible distinctness, and summed up
tersely in his own mind thus :

The mother's a designing woman, and
she'll try to make Ethel throw me over for
that boy with a handle to his name ; but
I'll have a fight for her."

I don't think you quite admit the force
of my remarks ? " the Bishop questions,
suavely, at this juncture, and Walter Gifford

ruins his chance of ever being called
upon to assuage gouty pangs in the episcopal
feet and legs, by answering bluntly :

I didn't hear them, my lord."

Papa, have you asked Lord Marcus for
tomorrow ? " Miss Templeton puts in, with
a little air of eagerness, which is meant to
show " the mere country surgeon " that he
is so completely outside their circle that they
can discuss social arrangements before him
with the same freedom they feel before servants
and inferiors generally.

For tomorrow ? " the Bishop asks, perplexedly.


Yes, to dinner ! don't you remember ?
Lord and Lady St. Just are coming and Mrs.
Heatherley and Ethel."

Walter Gilford turns away sharply and
hears no more. In another moment he has
gained Ethel's side, and detached her from
the aristocratic group who are seeking to
absorb her.

Ethel," he begins, a little too gravely,
why haven't you told me that you dine at
the Palace tomorrow ? "

Really, Walter," Ethel says, with some of
her mother's vivacity (vivacity which strikes
Mr. Gifford painfully as being assumed) ;
really, Walter ! did I undertake to tell you
where I dined every day Avhen we became
engaged ? "

You put it in a way that makes me seem
a petty tyrant, even in my own eyes ; and yet
I know I'm right and you're wrong the whole
time," he says, wearily ; and Ethel, quick to
mark the change in him, has lier hand on his
arm, clasping it caressingly in a moment.

"Walter! don't look tired and disappointed,
it hurts me ; mother told me not to
say anything about dining at the Palace, ' it
would look like boasting,' she thought ; and
mother has such perfect taste and tact, now,
hasn't she?"

She has indeed ! such perfect taste and
tact that I feel I jar upon her at every turn
to-day," he says, bitterly.

No, you don't." the girl cries, with quick
compunction ; " only do be broad and look at
things as they are, and not try to distort them
into what you think they ought to be ; be as

VOL. I. C

friendly with Lord Marcus Boyne as he Avoid
be with you, and take it for granted, Walter,,
that / shall keep my promise as sacredly to-you
as I should do to a peer of the realm""
The girl draws herself up and looks proud
and noble, true and trustworthy, to a degree
that reassures him, as she says this. And for
the hour Walter Gifford is satisfied that the
idol he has set up will never prove false to
him.

CHAPTER II.

THE bishop's daughter.

do the Bishop justice, he would
rather go without the dinner than
give it to-day. And this, not because
he is an ascetic on principle, but simply
because his digestion is out of repair, and his
bones are aching;.

It is hard on him that these things should
be, for he has lived sparsely for many a long
year ; and now that the good things of this
life are about him abundantly, he does not
dare to indulge in them, any more than if he
had revelled in them from his cradle.

But his daughter has ordained this dinner ;
and what is socially ordained by Miss
Templeton, at the Palace, is as the laws of
the Modes and Persians.

At times she runs her social ways mysteriously,
giving out an impression subtly
that she has a deeper meaning hidden in her

c2

virgin heart than is given out and suffered to
appear on the surface. If the Bishop utters
a faint protest against the expediency of
having a lawn-tennis party, when the clouds
are loweringly threatening rain ; or hints that
it would be pleasant for him to defer a state
dinner until such time as there might be a
slight chance of his being able to eat some of
it, his daughter's reply invariably crushes out
all opposition.

I have a reason for having it now, papa ;
you know I never do anything without a
motive."

i To-day, Fanny Templeton has a very strong
motive for insisting on this dinner coming off
 a motive that, though not noble, is, at least,
essentially feminine. Her mature fancy has
been favourably affected by Mr. Townley's
handsome, aristocratic, gay-hearted young
pupil, and she desires to give him the chance
of reciprocating her flattering sentiments.
She has been a girl so long that she cannot
get out of the habit of thinking herself one
still, though she has had ten more years'
experience of life than Lord Marcus.

And, to be quite fair to her, the mistake of
regarding herself as a girl still, is a pardonable
one on her part ; for if a woman is
only as old as she looks, it must be admitted
that Fanny Templeton looks very young
indeed. She is one of those fair, soft-looking
women, whose cheeks retain the roses and
roundness of youth well on into middle age.

She has, too, one of those coolly constituted
natures that never take it out of their possessors
by giving way to deep or violent
emotions. Her blue eyes are not in the habit
of shedding tears, for no trouble worth crying
about has ever touched herself, and she is a
very heroine in the way in which she can
calmly contemplate the troubles of others.
Her father has been Bishop of Atherton Towers
for ten years now, and during these ten years
she has had no need to take depressing heed
to pecuniary ways and means. Additionally,
she has had thrust upon her a delightful sense
of social importance, and in small, soft ways,
social importance is very dear to the good
Bishop's daughter. Altogether, the circumstances
of her life are rejuvenating, and she

is justified in feeling that, as far as looks go,
age need be no barrier to the alliance she
hopes to compass.

But Ethel Heath erle may be ! Miss
Templeton rarely deceives herself, whatever
she may do to others ; and she admits that,
whereas she is only a pretty young woman,
Ethel Heatherley is a beautiful young girl,
upon whom Lord Marcus Boyne has already
bestowed very favourable glances. She
recognises the fact also that if Ethel does
enter the lists against her, that it will be a
case of two to one ; for Mrs. Heatherley will
be on Ethel's side, and Fanny Templeton is
fully aware of the widow's value as an ally
and dangerous qualities as an opponent.
And these two are not tie sole barriers
between herself and holy matrimony with
Lord Marcus.

The Bishop has a chaplain !

This fact, as an isolated one, is unimportant.
Every Bishop has a chaplain,
and frequently nature and Providence combine
to make a union between the Bishop's
chaplain and the Bishop's daughter a highly

desirable thing. But in this case Fanny
Templeton has come to feel that it would
be, to say the least of it, unadvisable for
her to throw herself away on a mere
Reverend Bernard Grove, when it is in
the order of things " that may be " that
she shall become eventually the Marchioness
of Monkstown.

It is true that " things have been," between
Bernard Grove and the Bishop's daughter,
which are not now. It is the fashion of
smart leader writers, reviewers, and others
of that ilk, to represent and pretend to
believe that a curate is necessarily a rather
effeminate, poor-spirited, mild-game-playing,
weakly, flirting sort of creature. They
heighten the obnoxious tones in which they
paint this picture by sneering allusions to the
impunity with which ladies, young and old,
may " pet " the shepherd of the flock, and
assume an idiotic air of surprise if a curate
" a 'poor curate " is the happy phrase to
properly describe him  does anything that
commends itself to the eyes of the world
as indisputably manly. Why this idea

should pervade the press-reviewing and
ordinary fiction writing mind is incomprehensible
to every one who mixes indecent
society, and knows that the clergy
are quite up to the level of not only
gentlemanliness," but " manliness," as exhibited
by the members of any other
profession, class,, or clique. Nor does the
person who mixes in this aforesaid decent
society find that the " poor curate " differs
in any way from the " rich rector " in birth,
breeding, education, or manner. But those
who are outside the pale of good society do
not understand or realise this truism. And
so the innumerable vulgar men and women,
who supply cheap periodicals with emotional
stories of that life among the upper
classes of which they know nothing, invariably
portray " the curate " as a susceptible
ass, or a scheming, hungry fortune-hunter,
and make fatuous jokes about his goodness
and poverty for the edification and amusement
of the dissenting masses.

It shall be told at once that Bernard Grove
is not a type of either of these classes. He

is merely an honourable, good, good-looking,
well-bred, and equally well-read gentleman.
Poor enough, in all conscience, to satisfy the
greedy desire of all those who would see the
priests of the Lord impecunious. But neither
mean-spirited nor threadbare, crawling nor
audacious on the strength of his spiritual
position. Only a gentleman ! gifted with the
grace of high culture and real religious
feeling.

It is, however, with his social status and
his social career only, that we have to do in
these chronicles of life at Atherton Towers.

He has been the Bishop's chaplain for three
years now ; and other men, interested in the
question, in the diocese, are beginning to say
that his chances of a good living from his
diocesan are going off rapidly. For Miss
Templeton has visibly cooled towards him
recently, and it is tacitly understood that
the best living in the Bishop's gift will
go to the successful clerical wooer of the
Bishop's daughter.

Other chaplains had come and gone before
him, but something had always intervened

between themselves and the means of obtaining
the coveted promotion. In two
cases it had been a wife and several
children. In another, a band of hopeless,
helpless, penniless sisters. But Mr. Grove
had come upon the stage free from all
encumbrances, and the heart of the Bishop's
daughter had gone out to him gladly. Unfortunately,
as far as regards his chances of
getting the best living; in the diocese, he had
not responded with flattering celerity.

But after a time, she, showing him her
liking in a thousand undemonstrative ways,
he, being only a man, began to be moved
to regard her in the light of, at least, a
warm and dear friend. The constant daily
intercourse gradually melted the bulwark of
indifference behind which he had found
safety at first, and when once she had compelled
him to feel that she was both pretty
and pleasant, and, moreover, very partial to
himself, the rest was easy.

It certainly would have ended in his
marrying her, and thus getting that good
living of which mention has been made,

had not a check been given to the completion
of the half-formed scheme by an
unintentional outsider.

Things are in this state of check now, and
have been ever since Lord Marcus Boyne
came so blithely within the borders of
AUerton Towers. For Miss Templeton is
quite as well posted up in the probabilities
of Lord Marcus succeeding' to the title and
estates of his father as Mrs. Heatherley is.
Accordingly, the cool, well-regulated pulses
of the Bishop's daughter cease to beat for
the man who never can make her more
than a rector's  perhaps a rich rector's 
wife, and throb with amiably selfish tenderness
for the handsome boy who can make
her a marchioness.

Fanny Templeton is, perhaps, as cautious a
girl as ever guided herself through the intricate
ways of good society. But there are
times when her over-caution, combined with
that high estimate of her own charms which
so nearly approaches vanity, betrays that
which she most ardently desires to conceal

It is so now, and though she his never >o

much as mentioned Lord Marcus's name to
Mr. Grove, that gentleman knows as well as
she does herself that the woman who was
ready to be his wife only the other day, is
now even readier to be the wife of the boy
who has the pleasure-loving desire to taste
all that is sweetest, as well as the brilliancy
of the butterfly.

Mr. Grove sees and admits this, and is, to
tell the truth, not very much piqued at it.
His feeling for the lady, who has been using
her womanly wiles to win him, is not sufficient
for resentment to take the place of the
liking she herself planted. Accordingly, he
makes no change in his manner of treating
her, with the kindly intention of showing her
that he has no manner of objection to her
carrying her new point  if she can ! And
she misconstrues this considerate thoughtfulness
of his, and thinks that he is determined
to consider their relations unchanged, and
fears she may have some difficulty in getting
rid of him without the shadow of a scandal
should she succeed with Lord Marcus.

On the other hand, she does not deem it

wise to burn her boats. To be quite off with
the old love before she is on with the new, is
a weak policy according to her ideas. So she
puts her manner into the scales with her
chances, and as these latter go up and
down, so shall the former vary delicately
and safely.

It is grievous to Miss Templeton that the
Fatherless should be here on this, the first
day of Lord Marcus's dining with them, but
it is better to have him with them than not
to have him at all. Besides, Ethel Heath erle
is engaged, and though she believes Ethel to
be quite as capable of being off with the old
love if a satisfactory new one appears on the
horizon as she is herself, still she will make
Lord Marcus feel that Ethel is devoted to her
lover, if the English language can do it.

Through the whole of the day she has
successfully evaded a tete-astute with Mr. Grove,
little suspecting that he has not made the
slightest attempt to have one with her. On
other sultry summer days,, such as this, it had
been her wont after she has seen her housekeeper
and ordered the domestic doings for

the day, to go out on the velvet lawn through
which the river runs, and over which the
grand cathedral casts its dignified shadow,
and spend the hours till luncheon. For the
Bishop's study window peeps out through an
ivy screen upon this lawn, and when the
Bishop and his chaplain have transacted their
morning's business of seeing suppliant clergy,
and answering a budget of supplicating, rebuking,
or defiant letters from others, what
more natural than that the younger man
should get himself out into the fresh air
under the waving trees, and glance through
the magazines and new publications with
which Miss Templeton always sedulously
provides herself?

But the " old order change ! " This
morning there is no lady on the lawn ready
to look up  with a smile playing over the
softly-tinted rounded cheeks, and the prettily
cut pink lips  at his approach. Nevertheless,
Mr. Grove takes his accustomed seat with the
air of one who is perfectly satisfied with
things as they are, and reads a couple of stiff
articles in The Fortnightly right through,

without stopping to give one thought to the
one who is fancying that her current course
of conduct is giving him pain, and causing
him bewilderment.

When the time comes for him to knoAv it,.
he shall not have it to say that I misled
him for a moment after I began to care for
Marcus," Miss Templeton says to herself,
complaisantly ; and she really credits herself
with holding rather exalted sentiments, and
with acting in an irreproachable manner.

In the afternoon it is her custom to drive
with her father for two hours, and often,
Avhen any of the country magnates are to be
honoured with a call, Mr. Grove accompanies
them. Indeed, the city of AUerton Towers
itself is rarely honoured by the presence of its-bishop,
and the city clergy are never invited
to partake of the hospitality of the palace '
Why this should be is not clear to the secular
mind, which does not understand why this
delicate line should be drawn between the
cathedral and the city clergy, or why a faint
show of the episcopal favour should be extended
to the country rectors and vicars

which is withheld from their brothers in the
town. But, as Miss Templeton says of herself,
she never does anything without a
motive, and Miss Templeton is the daughter
of her father.

On this exceptional day, however. Miss
Templeton does not second even with a look
the Bishop's suggestion that Mr. Grove shall
drive out with them to Collingham, five miles
from Atherton Towers, to look at a newly-erected
church which the Bishop is to consecrate
during the ensuing week. On the
contrary, she puts on a look of filial solicitude,
and exclaims almost tearfully against
the gentle exertion which her father is
contemplating.

The effort of getting into this room was
almost too much for you this morning, papa,"
she says ; and then, for the first time this day,
she lifts her lashes, and looks Mr. Grove in
the face.

I am sure you agree with me that it
would be injudicious in the extreme on papa's
part to venture out, with his left foot swollen
as it is ? " she says, appealingly ; and Mr.

Grove replies with an air of good-humoured
indifference that makes her fear he is going
to obtusely disregard her change of feeling
respecting him.

I am sure that the Bishop can settle that
question for himself; but as regards my going
with you, my lord, I shall ask you to excuse
me to-day ? "

Certainly ; but I thought it would have
been well for you to find out what they mean
to do at Collingham on the fifteenth," the
Bishop says, testily. The vicar of Collingham
is believed to be as much in favour of advanced
ritual as his Bishop is opposed to it.
And it adds to all the gouty symptoms,
this lurking fear that his lordship has, that
he may be surprised into sanctioning the
coloured vestments and other things which
are abominable in his eyes, if his chaplain
does not reconnoitre the dubious ground
beforehand.

I think I may safely say that everything
is sure to be done decently and in order at
Collingham on the fifteenth," Mr. Grove says,
speaking far too cheerfully and approvingly

VOL. I. D

of that local head-centre of good churchmanship,
his broad Bishop thinks.

"I specially wished to go to-day," the
Bishop says, repining ; and his daughter
puts in 

Dear papa, don't you think it would be
better to keep away from Collingham till the
day? You can't stand altercation on any
subject, and if Mr. harcourt means to make a
fight for certain things of which 3:'ou so
properly disapprove, won't it be easier for
you to put it down with authority on the day
when your presence is essential, than to
quibble about it beforehand? I am sure you
think I am rifr]it?"she adds, turning  with
a pathetic look of reliance on his always
thinking lier that, at least  to Mr. Grove.

I think you're admirably prudent and
perfectly right if you wish to save the Bishop
from being troubled," Mr. Gi-ove sap's, cheerfully
; and again Fanny tells herself that the
poor fellow is blinding himself to her change
of feeling, and that it will be a heavy trial to
her bye-and-bye to make him understand that
she has altered." But vnen as she tells herself

this, she cannot help seeing that Mr-grove
is very unconcerned, not to say indifferent,
about missing the opportunity of
driving with her this afternoon.

The end of it is that the Bishop, rendered
litigious by the absence of his chaplain and
the presence of his daughter, in an absent
mood, goes out to Gillingham, and finds fault,
that he feels to be uncalled for, with most of
the arrangements which the vicar has made
for the fifteenth. So the pebble thrown into
the social pool, innocently enough, by Lord
Marcus Boyne, is making rapidly widening
circles.

Out on the lawn while they are away this
afternoon, the chaplain sits reading, and now
and aiijain reviewing the situation.

"Poor old fellow!  he hasn't been taught
yet that I am to be petted no longer," he half
laughs to himself, and then for a few minutes
he does seriously consider whether or not
Fanny Templeton is the kind of woman whom
it would be well for him to make his wife?
After a brief period, he says, with an air of
relief, " Well ! she has settled it easily for me,

D 2

as it happens ; it might have been, if it
hadn't been for this young fellow's opportune
appearance : as it is !  I hope, for old time's
sake, she won't make a fool of herself ; Marcus
Boyne is a mere boy, and will regard her as
an old woman."

When the Bishop and his daughter come
back from Collingham they find Mr. Grove
ready to welcome them with unusual impressiveness.


Such capital news I have had by the five
o'clock post," he says, with animation, " my
old friend, Colereigh, has been offered a
colonial Bishopric  Fitz-Spitzburg  somewhere
up the South African diamond fields, I
fancy ; he's coming over to see me before he
goes : I shouldn't wonder if he wants me to
go with him."

"They're giving these colonial bishoprics to
the wrong men," the Bishop says, testify, "we
ought to send out men of moderate views, not
those who offer themselves as violent contrasts
to those of us at home who like to go on
quietly, and are averse to ceremonial."

"Some of those at home go on so quietly

that the heathen might be forgiven for
imagining that sleep and sloth in religious
matters were the things needful," Mr. Grove
replies, and Fanny says, hastily 

Missionary work would suit you I'm sure;
you like roughing it and opposing people ;
now for my part I feel that I could only be
good in an atmosphere of peace."

(she fears I may ask her to go with me,
poor girl ! " the chaplain thinks.)

Lord St. Just takes Miss Templeton in to
dinner this night, in the order of things. He
is a pleasant old gentleman  when he has
been kept away from strong waters for some
hours  full of scientific information, which he
is willing to impart to anybody who listens to
him with appreciative understanding, but
rather apt to relapse into a grimly-smiling,
and silently-ironical frame of mind, when his
words of wisdom are not waited upon. This
is the case now, for on Miss Templeton's other
side is Lord Marcus Boyne, separated by some
two others on the same side of the table from
Ethel Heatherley.

He shall not even see her during dinner,"

the astute hostess has declared ; " aud I shall
interest him sufficiently to make him come tome
instead of to her in the evening."

If Miss Templeton were quite candid she
would confess to herself that by " interesting
him " she means that she hopes " to disgust
him with Ethel," by speaking of the latter's
engagement to Mr. Gilford, " one of the town
surgeons."

rim.

im

I SHALL NEVER Forget YOU ; NEVER ! "

T was touch-and-go whether I came 
night or not ; I'd made an engagement,
before I had your invitation, to
go with some fishermen, and see what they
call a seine drawn : I forgot that, you see,
when I said I would dine here, and to-night I
forgot I Alas coming here, and was going off
with them, when Mrs. Townley charged at me
with a rebuke and a reminder."

Lord Marcus makes this unflattering confession
with a candid coolness that disarms
Miss Templeton's resentment. It is not a
difficult task for a woman who wishes to be a
marchioness to pardon a small slight from the
man who may make her one.

"Oh! it's so dangerous going out with the
seine; I should have been dismal all the
evening if you had forgotten us for the iisli,"
Miss Templeton says, pathetically.

I wouldn't regret the fish for a moment,
if you had. put me next to, or opposite to,
that lovely Miss Heatherley," he replies,
ungratefully.

Miss Templeton presses her lips a trifle
closer together, and lowers her eye-lashes
for a moment. Then she lifts the cloudless,
blue eyes with a smile, and says :

Perhaps you would have found her
even a duller companion than you are
finding me, she is not like the same girl
she was before her engagement ; so dreadfully
engrossed with thoughts of the absent
love, that she is almost useless now in
society."

It is not really an engagement, is it ? "
Lord Marcus asks, kindling to the topic.

It is, indeed, a real engagement, and it
will be quite a love match, in spite of all
her mother's machinations," Miss Templeton
laughs. " Poor Mrs. Heatherley ! her own
day is done, and she may easily be forgiven
for being a little disappointed at Ethel's having
fallen so desperately in love with a man who
hasn't much of a home, and no position whatever

to offer her ; but Ethel will have her
own way in this as in other things."

Lord Marcus fixes his sparkling eyes on her,
With a serious expression in them, which
gives a new charm to his boyish, handsome
face, and is  silent.

There is a little awkwardness in renewing
the conversation, as he will not aid her ; but
she is equal to the task, for she has a few
more shots to fire.

For my own part, I am glad it is
settled so, for I am very fond of Ethel," she
begins, looking fondly down the table at Miss
Heatherley's profile. " I'm very fond of her,
very; but she has been such a silly little,
easy-dazzled, little flirt, that it is a comfort
to know" she is settled at last with a man who
is able to take care of her."

I think she can take care of herself."

Miss Templeton laughs and shakes her head.

She's only a little rustic after all, you
know ; poor Mrs. Heatherley gives herself
dreadful airs  to a great extent, I fear, because
we have noticed them a good deal  but
Ethel knows nothing of society ; if it had not

been for this marriage (Lord Marcus winces)
I should have had her in town with me next
season "

What a stir she'd have made," he murmurs
with enthusiasm, " she is prettier than
the prettiest woman I saw at the princess's
ball just before I came down, and all the
beauties who are in the best swim were
there."

"It will not be much use for a country
surgeon's wife to make a stir in the ' best
swim'" Miss Templeton says, coldly. Then
she remembers Lord St. Just's claims on her,
and tries to give her undivided attention to
him for five minutes, hoping that Lord Marcus
Boyne will feel punished by her neglect.

Lord St. Just has taken sufficient wine
at this juncture to make him feel bitter
about having been debarred fi'om speaking of
his favourite hobby for so long a time.
Accordingly he is not in charity with anyone,
least of all with the man who has been
preferred to him by this one socially legal
auditor.

Is that longfellow as witless as his

brother Kenmare, that you have to waste
so many words in making him understand
that he's not to cast his eyes at pretty Miss
Heatherley," he says, sardonically, and Miss
Templeton could eat him as she feels that
Lord Marcus hears the speech and is amused
by it.

Pretty Miss Heatherley is so hopelessly
attached to her rather rough hero, that I have
no need to caution Lord Marcus against
falling into the pit which her ambitious
mamma is quite prepared to dig for him,"
Fanny says, presently, and Lord St. Just
gnashes his teeth and smiles, and compliments
Miss Templeton on that ' well-known
engineering skill which will doubtless enable
her to undermine Mrs. Heatherley."

All this time she has nearly forgotten Mr.
Grove, who is down at the other end of the
table, near enough to the Bishop to come to
the rescue should this lordship uuAvarily fall
into any theological difficulties. There is a
good deal of excitement frequently about this
task of extricating the Bishop, for he is apt
to force, at times, that he has solemnly

pledged himself to the rigorous observance of
certain forms and ceremonies, which occasionally
he denounces as " puerile, childish,
popish, and altogether abominable.' The
duty of figuratively picking his lordship
up, setting him erect before the Church and
the world, and saving him from falling into
unconscious heresy, is ofttimes a hard one.
But Mr. Groves does his best to perform it,
and his best is the work of a churchman, a
gentleman, and a peacemaker.

He has been having a hard time of it
during this dinner, for Bingham is on the
tapis and the Bishop, supported by some recently
delivered judgments, is as a lion on
the subject of one or two things that will
give him extra trouble if he does " not stamp
them out," as he vehemently expresses the
operation he proposes to himself. To revise,
cancel some portion of, and generally edit,
the Bishop during the heat of a controversy
into which he has hurled himself unsupported
by facts, has been a sk for a Titan. But
Mr. Grove has not only undertaken it, but
actually carried it through.

And all the while he has been in this fray.
Miss Templeton deludes herself (when she has
time to think about him at all) with the idea
that he has been aching and seething at the
sight of his successful rival on her left hand.

They go  into the drawing-room presently,
and Ethel instantly finds her way to a deep
old bow window, with cushioned seats in
its recess, in a corner of the room. She
takes up her position without let or hindrance
from Fanny Templeton, for this window
is remote from the piano and other
points of general attraction in the room,
and the girl, engaged as she is, will not have
the face to seclude herself in such a corner
with a man. Miss Templeton thinks.

Fanny has found out that Lord Marcus is
fond of music, and sings and plays a little
himself. It is a terrible trial to her now, that
she should have disregarded the efforts her
music and singing masters made in years
gone, by, to instil something like artistic feeling
into her ; for, intuitively, she feels that Lord
Marcus will not listen tolerantly to mere
namby-pamby prettiness, such as she can

deliver. With a further pang, she reflects
that Ethel Heatherley plays the violin, and
plays it well, too, for an amateur! Blessings
from Miss Templeton for her own far-lightness
in not having asked Ethel to bring her
violin to night.

In a short time it all seems to be going
as Fanny wishes. Old Lady St. Just has got
Mrs. Heatherley well within her gossiping
clutches, so that there is nothing to be feared
from the widow, as regards the Bishop, yet
awhile. Mr. Grove is discussing the possibility
and advisability of making an underground
railway right into the heart of Dartmoor
; thus rendering access to the most
picturesque points easy, and at the same
time preserving the will aspect of the place
unimpaired. Other people have grouped
themselves together more or less uncongenial
and incongruously, and Lord Marcus
is safely landed at that bane to peace in the
majority of houses  the piano.

Mrs. Townley tells me you have such a
lovely voice, and such a perfect style*' she
says; and he laughs Inioyanlly.

"Mrs. Townley knows little of music and
less of styles. My voice is good enough as
far as nature goes, but I haven't had much
good training."

But sou will sing something to oblige us ?

It will be such a pleasure to hear you ! ( )lido

! "

She begins to pick a under of songs out

of the music-stand, but he repulses her, and

refuses them politely.

Haven't learnt one of them. Miss Templeton,
and wouldn't offend your ears by crudely
singing anything I hadn't learnt," he says,
gallantly ; but she knows that he is looking
about for Ethel as he speaks. Suddenly he
discerns Miss Heatherley, and crosses over to ,
lier leisurely, quite regardless of the expression
of mingled spite and admiration in the
blue eyes which follow him.

Wdl you play an accompaniment forme?"
he asks, gently; "twickenham Ferry;'
you know it."

"Yes, I know," she says, rising swiftly,
and coming out of the mysterious light of
the recess with a bright gladness in lier ftice

and manner that undoes all Miss Templeton's
work. "I wish I had my fiddle here," she
goes on, as she seats herself at the piano, " it
goes with the violin, oh ! so deliciously."

She seems half appealing to Miss Templeton
for an endorsement of her sentiments respecting
her beloved violin, but that lady's
heart is hardened towards her.

"A little bird has Whispered to me that Mr.
Gifford wishes your choice had fallen on any
Esther musical instrument than the violin,
Ethel ; how will he like your speaking of it
as ' your fiddle ? ' "

Ethel turns slowly to the piano, draws off
her many buttoned gloves without the
slightest sign of haste or annoyance, flutters
her small, nervous hand over the keys, and
looks up into Lord Marcus's face with a smile
for which Fanny could kill her.

Now ! " Ethel says ; and the pleased,
enamoured young fellow sings " Twickenham
Merry," to her sympathetic accompaniment, ina
way he has never sang it before  or since !

They all listen to him, and to her  spellbound,
till the last echo of the last whispering

notes die out ; then a chorus of thanks and
admiration greet both the brilliant young
performers.

In listening to the thrilling strain, the
Bishop has forgotten ColHngham and his gout,
but both are rapidly recalled to him when
his daughter crosses over, and whispers :

There is nothing in the song itself, but
the way her playing prompted him to sing it
was simply shocking ! Speak to Ethel, papa,
for her own sake ; point out the impropriety
of that daring, defiant style ; and don't hint
to her that I have asked you to do it, or the
poor, vain, silly child may think I'm jealous
of her."

So, at the bidding of his exemplary child,
the good Bishop presently calls Ethel to his
side, and unwillingly reproves her.

It's a dreadful song for that boy to have
sung in the Palace, before me," he says, as
austerely as he can bring himself to speak to
the pretty widow's prettier daughter, " and
I'm sorry to find that you are so well
acquainted with it as to be able to play it ina
way that must have shocked everybody."

' What harm is there in the song ? I'll ask
you about my playing the accompaniment
afterwards," Ethel asks, respectfully ; but
there is a light in her brown velvet eyes,
that shows she is ready for battle.

" No actual harm, but it's altogether not
quite the song for a lady or gentleman to
sing in a drawing-room before other ladies
and gentlemen."

Ladies and gentlemen listen to it delightedly
at concerts."

In private society it is not well that the
full meaning should be put either into the
words or air," the Bishop says, dictatorially ;
and then, satisfied that he has said enough to
satisfy his daughter and his conscience for the
present, he resumes his conversation with the
Townley, and leaves Ethel to reflect on his
counsels.

Humming the last two lines of the song
which has been the cause of her disgrace,
Ethel saunters away to her seat in the window
again, and there, behind the curtain, is
Lord Marcus.

I didn't see you come," she says ; and he

knows there is no girlish subterfuge here ;
she did riot see him come.

Isn't it the best place in the room ? " the
girl goes on, never lowering her voice a half-tone,
but speaking out so that all in the room
may hear if they be minded to listen. " The
view is lovely, and we needn't talk."

She plants herself on the low seat opposite
to him, and he crosses to her side
quickly.

"It is the best place in the room, for it's
the place you're in ; and I can't look at the
view, lovely as it is, while I can look at you ;
and as for one not talking, I must say something
to you. May I ? "

You say ' you must,' " she says, looking at
him with wonder in her eyes.

Well, I must. It is this : I shall never
forget you, never ! And you are engaged ? "

I am engaged to Mr. Gifford ; I told you
that myself, yesterday," she says, looking at
him too kindly.

And yesterday I heard, and didn't care
whether I believed it or not ; to-night I've
heard it again. It was dinned into my ears

K 2

all through dinner, and now I can't bear to
believe it. Do you know why ? "

Because you like me yourself, I suppose,"
the girl says, proudly ; " that's the only
reason I can think of, and I'm sorry."

Oh ! Ethel, it's because I love you," he
says, bending nearer to her  worshipping
her with the pure worship of a young
man's first passionate love  "don't be sorry
for me, whichever way it goes ; be glad,
for if I ever can gain you it will be my
life's happiness, and if I'm to lose you !
Well ! be. glad I have loved you, won't
you?"

You'll forget me and your fancy in a
week," Ethel says ; and she tries to say it
steadily, and tries to believe that she
means it.

Forget you ! " He rises up, and stands
before her straight, erect, beautiful in his
youth and strength, and love for her.

Forget you ! Is it because I'm younger
than the man in whose love you are going to
rely that you think mine will fade? or is it
because you despise me for having been so

quickly won, that you think I shall be
lightly lost?"

No ; it's because I love the other one best
that I say you'll soon forget me ; because I
hope you will."

Best ! Then you do feel something 
liking or something for me ? " he pleads,
eagerly ; but before Ethel can answer him,
Miss Templeton dances into the recess, and
puts her hand within Ethel's arm.

I hope the others  the Townley especially
 haven't noticed this, Ethel," she whispers,
and the grip on Ethel's arm grows
vicious as she says it. Then she adds aloud
to Lord Marcus :

"Mr. Townley has said good-night to us,
and the carriage is at the door ; do you go
with them?"

No. I shall walk home to-night," he
says, gloomily.

Walk ! impossible ! it's five miles. Stay
here, my father will be most happy if you
will, I am sure ; if you are determined not to
drive."

Thanks, Miss Templeton, but to stay here

would be more impossible still ; in the first
place I have no clothes with me, and in the
second place "

"What?"

I have no inclination to stay without
them," he says, lazily ; and then lie takes
Ethel's hand, and mutters "good-night" to her.

Good-night, good-bye," Ethel says, rather
chokingly ; it is a bit of romance, and she
rather likes it. Still she thinks it would be
well to end it !  while yet there is time !

It isn't ' good-bye, ' " Lord Marcus says,
impetuously ; " it can't be that  when you're
the one person in the world I want to see
again."

He wrings her hand, and something in the
strong grasp impresses her with the truth
and reality of what he has been saying to her.
Aid she cannot but be pitiful towards the
man who has given his love to her so unreservedly
and quickly, and to whom lie
feels convinced she can never give her love
in return.

As soon as he is gone Miss Templeton
drops her mask of sweetness.

Ethel ! " she begins, in a tone of reprobation
; " you have been more than fooHsh tonight
; even papa spoke of the way in which
you played just now, so professional and
showy, not at all what we-could have wished
to hear in our drawing-room ; and then, to
cap such an exhibition, you retire into a
dark corner with a young man who is a
stranger, and flirt with him in a way that
must have amused him."

Ethel's eyes flash in the growing darkness
" Don't call me ' Ethel ' when you speak tome
in that way, Miss Templeton, or rather
never speak to me again till you can remember
that I am neither your dependent nor
your servant, but your equal ; and as for
your father's opinion of my manner of playing,
you worded it for him, and made him
say it, because you knew Lord Marcus sang
the song as if he loved it simply because I
played it for him,"

Oh, Ethel ! " Miss Templeton cries, desperately,
feeling that if she has driven Ethel
into (open rebellion, the girl will hold no
terms, will keep no covenant.

"I am 'Miss Heatherley' to you, if you
please, until you tell me you are sorry for
having insulted me," the girl cries, passionately.
"Wasn't it bad enough to be
tempted "

She checks herself abruptly, walks like a
queen into the lighted room, and bending
over lier mother, whispers, " We have stayed
too late, mother dear ! come ! "

A.

w

IS SHE JEALOUS?

jiT is the morning after the dinner at the

Palace, and Ethel Heatherley is out in

the garden at the back of her mother's

pretty cottage, alone with thoughts that are

not pleasant.

She cannot help admitting to herself that
she did like that brief, spasmodic bit of
romance which flashed into her life so unexpectedly
on the previous evening. She
liked it at the time, and remembers it with
blushes and pride, and pleasure now. And
for doing this she knows she ought to be
thoroughly ashamed of herself, for the man
whom she is pledged to marry has announced
that he is coming to have a serious talk with
her this morning, and he is not the man who
has temporarily glorified existence for her
with this Hash of bright romance.

I shall never forget you, never ! " she

keeps on repeating to herself, but, do all
she can, she fails to utter the words with
that drawing sweetness which had been in
his tones dien he uttered them. Did he,
could he mean them ? She hopes not ; iov
of course she is engaged to Walter, and she
loves him dearly, and wouldn't do anything
but marry him for the world. Still, did
Lord Marcus mean them ?

Marcus is a lovely name, too, she tells
herself. His name, Marcus Boyne, attracts
her more than his title, it's so Irish, and so
uncommon, and so exactly the gallant-sounding,
fitting name for so gallant-looking a
hero. How he ransj out those words 

With love like u rose at the stern of the wherry,
There's danger in rowing to Twickenham Town"'

What an old prude the Bishop was for carping
at such a sweet love-song. But no ! it
wasn't the Bishop's fault, poor old man ; it
was Fanny who had prompted her father to
find fault; it was Fanny's jealousy, the
foolish, spiteful thing ; as if he would ever
look at her, even if she, Ethel Ileatherley,
didn't exist.

Was lie fickle, as Irishmen are, proverbially?
Would he forget her, as she had
told him he would in a week ? How she
would like to test him, and find him faithful
and true ; that is to say, how she would like
to do it if Walter (dear, good Walter, who
shouldn't be snubbed for anyone) didn't exist ;
and Walter was coming in a moment, and
Lord Marcus had said he would " never forget
her, never ! "

She looks prettier this morning than she
has ever looked in her life, and somehow
or other she knoAvs that she does so, and
attributes this pleasing result rather to the
effect of the new emotions which have been
awakened in her by the brief romance of last
night, than to the deliciously-tinted pale pink
lawn dress, with its flounces and frills of
white lace. New feelings, new emotions, new
aspirations, new possibilities have entered in
and taken possession of and beautified her,
all through this bright glimpse she luis had
of an ardent's man's suddenly-developed admiration
and love.

If he could only see her this morning lie

would surely like her better than ever. If
he could only see her ! Not that she wishes
him to come, or to see her, or to think about
her any more ; but he had said he should
never forget her, never ; " and after that,
what can she do but think of him a little,
for a time at least.

She is startled out of her meditations on
this head abruptly, by a step close to her
side, a hand on her shoulder, and a voice in
her ear, saying,

Ethel, darling, I'm afraid I've kept you
waiting, but I've heard from my sister, offering
to come and stay with me ; she wants
to come at once, and to bring a friend with
her, so I've been about searching for lodgings,
and the time has slipped away without my
knowing it."

He stoops over her as he speaks, as if
to kiss her, but Ethel stands a little aloof,
not angrily, nor coldly, but just as if a kiss
from him were not in the programme at
the moment.

I didn't know you were late. I mean,
you haven't kept me waiting," Ethel says.

hurriedly, and then, seeing that Mr. Gifford
looks hurt and surprised, she tries to throw
a little extra interest into her next words.

I'm so glad your sister is coming, Walter,
it will be so nice for you. But Why are
you getting lodgings for her? Why won't
she stay with you ? "

Didn't I tell you she is bringing a friend
with her ? "

But why can't the friend stay with you,
too?"

The friend is a young lady, and it
wouldn't be quite the thing for her to stay
in a bachelor's house."

"" What nonsense ! What utter nonsense !
Not the proper thing to stay in a bachelor's
house, when the bachelor's sister is with him.
Such prudery and rubbish ! I've no doubt
she's an old maid whom you wouldn't look
at ; besides (with a gay, self-satisfied laugh),
while I am in the way she needn't be afraid
of your falling in love with her, need she ? ''

She's not an old maid," he says, with
slight embarrassment.

"Isn't she?" Ethel asks, quickly. "You

told me your sister is twenty-nine or thirty,
so I took it for granted that her friend would
be equally aged. What is her name ? Is she
pretty ? "

Very," he says, emphatically.

Oh ! "

"Very pretty, and very clever, and "

How pleased you must feel at the prospect
of welcoming her," Ethel interrupts, with
a little air of hauteur that becomes her welland
that pleases Walter Gifford, because he
fancies it betokens jealousy! Alas! for him
and his short-sightedness. Ethel's jealousy
will never bring her nearer to him. His first
instinct against the coming of his sister's
friend has been a correct one. Her presence
will bring no peace to him.

"I am not at all pleased, to tell the truth.
I wish Mabel had come by herself, and then
she could have stayed with me ; as it is, Miss
Somerset has spoilt the pleasure of my sister's
visit, as far as I am concerned."

Don't you like Miss Somerset ? "

My not wishing her to come has nothing
to do with mv likings or not likings her. I'm

annoyed because she will take Mabel into
lodgings instead of letting her come to nie,
and she will engross my sister entirely."

You either hate or love her very much,
Walter," Ethel says, gravely. " I wonder
which it is ? "

It certainly is not ' love ' that I feel for
the lady who is going to interfere with my
plans for Mabel."

Then it has been love, now, hasn't it P
If she is less than a friend to you now, it is
because she has at some period in the past
been more than a friend. Won't you trust
me and tell me, Walter? I shouldn't bethe
least bit annoyed or hurt. I'm not
silly enough to fancy that I am the only
one you have ever cared for. One can't
have one, and only one love in a life "

I hoped that I was your first love, at any
rate, Ethel ; and told myself that I had won
you utterly."

You shouldn't tell yourself anything
so foolish and dog in-the-mangerish. Why
should I only have the pleasure of being
in love once, any more than the rest of

my fellow-creatures? You've half confessed
already, at least, I've screwed it out of you,
that you have been in love with this Miss
Somerset, whatever you may be now. Why
should I be different, and vow truly that
you're the first and only one my heart has
thought of for a minute ? "

If I could think you were jealous," he
is beginning, when she laughs and stops
him.

No, no, Walter ! I'm not jealous, I'm
only glad to find that I'm not so much, so
everything to you, as I thought I was ; it
would have frightened me to feel that you
never had loved anybody, and never could
love anybody but me ; now I feel freer, oh !
ever so much freer."

I'm sorry that your assumption of facts,
that you can't verify, should give you such
liberty of conscience. Miss Somerset is no
more to me than any other person who intervenes
between me and unfettered intercourse
with my sister."

You got red about her," Ethel says,
with a lively laugh, that seems to tell him

she does not care whether he is in love with
Miss Somerset or not.

I came to speak to you about something
widely different, and that is your mother's
unjustifiable opposition to our engagement,
after having given her free consent to it."

Don't call anything my mother does or
says 'unjustifiable,' if you please."

"It is unjustifiable to profess perfect satisfaction
with a man and his prospects one
day, and then, suddenly, without any change
having taken place in either, to find fault
with both."

Mother doesn't find fault with you, as a
man."

She does with my position, and seems
to distrust my power of improving it ; and
you don't appear the least distressed at her
doing so. Why is this, Ethel? What has
happened to change you from the dear,
loving, devoted, staunch little girl you were
that day you said you would be my wife ? "
Please don't use such words and such
grand sentiments about it," Ethel says, with
unaffected distaste to the subject ; " you're

making it all big and important by the way
you speak ! Why can't you let things be ?
Why can't you drift on just as we are, contentedly,
for a little time ? "

Because I love you, Ethel, and can't see
you either taken from me, or drifting from
me, without showing the pain I feel," he
says, with emotion.

They have come away from the house,
down along the winding paths that lead
from the pretty, old-fashioned garden to the
banks of the river, as he says this ; and now
they stand in silence for a time, looking down
at the water, as it ripples and leaps now
along quiet places, and now over big boulders.
On the opposite side of the river, the Palace
grounds spread their stately, sheltered walks
and lawns, and, presently looking across,
Ethel sees, on one of these latter. Miss
Templeton sitting on a rustic bench, under
a deeply-drooping tree, looking down complacently
at a manly form reclining on the
grass at her feet.

Fanny and Mr. Grove don't often come
so far as this," Ethel is saying, when the

manly form starts to its feet, with an amount
of activity that does not characterise Mr.
Grove's movements usually, and a strong,
clear, young voice calls out,

Hold hard, there, will you, Miss Heatherley,
and I'll cross over on some of these big
stones," and Ethel recognises the form and
voice of Lord Marcus Boyne, and cannot
restrain an exclamation of glad delight as
she does recognise him.

This at the first blush of pleasure ! A
moment after she remembers that Lord Marcus
can never be anything to her, and that
her lover is by her side ! Oh ! the joy there
ought to be in such a reflection ! Oh ! the
flat pain there is in it !

(that puppy here again ! ") she hears Mr.
Gifford mutter, and she can't refrain from
saying,

He's manly and gentlemanly, and bright
and beautiful ! Why do you call him a
puppy,' Walter ? "

' Beautiful ! ' What a word to use about
a man ! One gets a contempt for the man to
whom it's applied, even if one hadn't it before."

F 2

"Why?" Ethel asks, impetuously, as she
eagerly watches Lord Marcus's perilous passage
across the boulders, over which the river
is rushing tumultuously. "Why? We use
it about a sunset, and a horse, and a mountain
; why not about a man ? "

Pshaw ! "

There's no argument against its use in
that, anyway," Ethel says, stubbornly. Then
she drops her acknowledged lover's arm,
which has been holding her tightly this while,
and goes of! to meet the unacknowledged
one, as he clambers up the bank, flushed and
dripping from his exploit.

A modern Leander ! " Miss Templeton
shouts from her dry and deserted position on
the opposite lawn ; but her spitefully suggestive
words fall on Walter Gifford's ears
only, and deeply do they aggravate him.
The others hear them not. Ethel is bending
over the bank, holding an enthusiastic hand
out to Lord Marcus, who is leaping up inmost
Leander-like fashion, quite oblivious of
the jealous glances which are being hurled at
them from either side of the bank.

I have come to tell you something'' Lord
Marcus gasps, as he reaches level land. " T
know you won't care to hear it, but, still, I
can't help wanting to tell you, and to hear
you say you're sorry for me. Kenmare 
he's my brother, you know ?  is awfully ill,
and I'm going home at once to see him ; but
I wouldn't go without saying good-bj'e to
you."

He is holding her hand, and looking into
her face with his wonderful, glistening, aquamarine
eyes, and she is tenderly touched, as it
behoves a woman to be who hears of the
sudden illness, which may possibly have a
fatal termination, of one who is dear to one
whom she loves.

Perhaps your brother Avill get better,"
she blurts out, prosaically ; " but, if you
wanted to say good-bye to me, why Avere you
lying on the lawn at Miss Templeton's
feet ? "

Because I had to take a message Iron
Townley to the Bishop ; and when I said I
was coming on l:ere to the cottage, she told
me she expected you there this morning,

and said I should miss you if I didn't
wait. Would you have been sorry ? Would
you have cared a bit, Ethel ? "

Ethel," Mr. Gifford shouts from a height
a few yards above her, looking down
with threatening eyes upon the fascinating,
frivolous pair. " Ethel, I must go in five
minutes, and I have many things to say to
you."

Why the deuce doesn't he say them and
have done with it," young Marcus Boyne
mutters to himself, discontentedly. He is
mad with fate, love, everything this morning !
and Ethel's eyes are distracting him. Why
are the " sweetest eyes that were ever seen "
predestined to light the path of another
man? Why may he not dare to ask her to
definitely break all previous bonds, and share
his fortunes with his heart to-day?

No, he cannot. There is that man on the
little winding path above them proclaiming
his rights in the cold, cavilling, displeased
tone in which he says 

Ethel, I must go in five minutes."

Wearily, Ethel begins to ascend the winding

path. What is she to say to Walter Gifford
when she rejoins him ? Nothing ; absolutely
nothing ! She cannot thank him for waiting
for her, for she has not wanted him to wait !
She cannot profess to think that he will be
glad to see Lord Marcus Boyne, because she
knows that the young man's name is <-is the
root of bitterness to him ! And if she does
not do either of these things, Walter may be
righteously annoyed.

Why, oh why, has any one but mother
the right to control me or find fault with
me ? " she says to herself, as she plods up the
path. Lord Marcus affectionately at her heels.
Then she meets Walter Gifford, and must say
something.

You don't know one another, I find ?
Mr. Gifford, let me introduce you to Lord
Marcus Borne ; now come in and see
mother," she adds, with an air of relief, turning
towards Lord Marcus.

And you stay here with me," Walter
Gifford puts in, decisively.

She looks from one to the other for a
moment, and then makes up her mind that

she cannot even seem to slight the man who
is in sorrow about his brother.

Lord Marcus's will be rather a sad goodbye,
Walter," she says, gently ; " you are
going to see your sister and her friend, who
are both full of spirits and life ; he is going
to his dying brother. I think I must stay
with him and mother."

Walter Gifford stands back and folds his
arms over his chest. In that moment he
comes to a definite conclusion concerning
the part he will play in this drama. Ethel
shall go her own way for a year. At the
end of that year he will either have the
power to control her, or the will to resist
her ! What matter which ? She shall go
her own way now.

It must be as you please," he says, inclining
his head, and Ethel lifts her bonnie,
blooming face towards him and answers 

"My pleasure is that you go and enjoy
yourself with your sister and Miss Somerset,
for a time, and leave me to mother ! Now,
you can't say Tm nasty, and exacting, and
jealous."

"I wish to Heaven you were," he says,
piteously, but she is not listening to him.
She is already running up the winding path,
with Lord Marcus by her side.

The young Irishman has all his woman-worshipping
wits about him, for all the real
trouble he is in about his brother.

I knew it was on the cards that you
couldn't or wouldn't see me if I came," he
says, with that bewitching humility which
more than other form of pride compels a
woman to surrender ; " but still, I thought
I'd come and ask for your sympathy, thigh
you can't give me your "

"Oh! don't, don't." They are in the
clematis-covered entrance-porch to the cottage
now  a little place  the interior of which is
a mass of tea-roses, stephanotis, gardenia, and
giant mignonette.' It is all so sweet that fora
few moments poor Ethel feels sweetly
astray. Then she recovers herself.

I wish Mr. Gifford had come with us,"
she says, rather mournfully.

"If he had I shouldn't be here now,"
Lord Marcus cries. Then he goes down on

one knee before her, and she can but hear
what he has to say.

Ethel, I love you, I love you ; whatever
comes, I shall come back and tell you so ;
Ethel, you are my star ! Guide me back to
you soon ; forgive me for saying this now
when he's here, and I oughtn't to say it, but
I'm unhappy about my brother, and I want
someone to love me. I mean I want to tell
someone all about myself and what's before me."

Ethel is leaning back against a shelf, her
hands behind her, tightly clasping it, and he
is standing before her, grief-stricken, bewilderingly
handsome, and utterly oblivious
of the fact that the man she is pledged to
marry is standing a few yards away from
them, anathematising him.

In response to his ardent appeal, Ethel,
with the instinct for self-preservation which
is inherent in her sex, says nothing ; but
moves discreetly towards the inner hall,
cooing out as she moves,

Mother ! mother ! we want you ! Are
you not down yei, darling ? " and presently
Mrs. Heatherley appears, all India muslin

and sarah, and soft laces, looking lier freshest,
sweetest, airiest morning self in fact, and,
as with a quick glance she takes in the
whole situation (for Walter Gilford is looming
gloomily in the background), Ethel
feels that the onus is off her !

Mother will manage them both'" she
says to herself, with a sensation of relief,
for it has not come to the pass yet, with
her, that she desires to manage either of
them apart from " mother."

My dear boy," Mrs. Heatherley says,
quiveringly, presently, when she has heard
the reason why he has been recalled home,
my heart bids me go and help to nurse
your brother ; but my motives might be
misconstrued if I volunteered for the service !
What say you? Shall I go?"

For a moment Lord Marcus thinks of his
motherless, dying brother, away in the
imposing but exceedingly ill-regulated Irish
castle, and is half inclined to accept the
Quixotic offer. The next he looks at
Ethel's face, and reads her look of pained,
scornful disapproval aright.

I aren't ask you, though I'd give all
I have, or may have, in the world to get
you and Ethel there," he says, with unwonted
trembling and hesitation in his
voice and manner. And Mrs. Heatherley
looks at him with tears of maternal understanding
in her eyes, and Ethel turns away
hastily, and gets out to look for Walter
Gifford.

He is just about to depart when she
comes, and it is in his heart to punish her
for having been so long.

"I had a hundred things to say to you,
Ethel ; but you have been so much taken
up with Lord Marcus, that I must put
them off till the evening."

Or till another day  say till you've
found lodgings for your sister and Miss
Somerset," she says, calmly.

Ethel ! don't send me off like this ! and
don't be dazzled by that boy."

"That ' boy,' as you call him, is not in the
dazzling ' line of business, at present. Hein
grief, real grief, about his brother
Kenmare.'

If Kenmare dies, he will be the Marquis.
His grief is as real as all else about him,"
Walter GifFord storms out ; and Ethel can
only say,

Walter ! how can you say it ? "

t

entp:r lily, exit ethel.

pORE than a week has elapsed, Mr
' GifFord has found the most comfortable
and picturesque lodgings
for his sister and her friend that the heart
of woman can desire, or the most exacting and
fastidious nature of man can desire for her.

Three lavender-scented rooms in a sweet
farm-house, called " The Uplands," are placed
at their service by one of the bonniest-faced
housewives in the West counties.

Three old, raftered rooms, low and roomy,
with quaint corner cupboards full of china,
and long, queerly carved settles, along the
walls. Rooms that are full of the sweetness
and light of the country, and, it may be told
here, rooms into which Lily Somerset would
rather die than enter, if she too had not an
end to gain.

For she is one of the world's spoilt darlings,

and for her " to rough it " in ever so
slight a degree, is an extraordinary thing.
It is the mornings after their arrival at the

o

Uplands  the farm-house that lies on the
breezy borders of Atherton Towers  and the
two ladies are sitting at their rather late
breakfast, in the old oak-panelled, low-raftered
sitting room which has been placed at their
service.

Anything more incongruous than these two
friends are in appearance, manners, motives,
habits, and aspirations, cannot well be imagined.
Mabel Gifford is a tall, stout, good-humoured,
commonplace-looking woman of
thirty, full of thriftiness, and excellent household
ways, blessed with an eagle's eye for the
main chance. Not a mean woman! Far be
it from the chronicler of this portion of her
blameless, uneventful career, to suggest that
Mabel GifFord is endowed, in ever so slight a
degree, with the quality of meanness. But
essentially a thrifty, careful, saving Avoman,
who, abhorring every form of luxury and
extravagance for herself, is rather apt to be
intolerant of it in others.

Yet, see her now, the chosen friend and
companion of Lily Somerset, a girl of four-ands
twenty, whose fortunes are as fair as her
most lovely face  a girl who has never known
what it is to " deny herself anything that
money can purchase, or which she has set her
heart upon having  a girl to whom fine raiment
is absolutely one of the chief necessaries
of life, who invariably averts her eyes from
the seamy side of everything, and who feels
it rather hard that some one cannot bribe the
sun to perpetually shine upon her  a self-indulgent,
wilful, capricious, extravagant,
exacting, ungrateful young lady, yet one for
whom Mabel Gifford is willing to sacrifice her
time, principles, occupations, sharply-defined
rules of life, and personal independence.

She does not puzzle her head much by
trying to define the reason why she has gone
into this bondage to one who, she feels dimly,
will cast her off and do without her very
buoyantly as soon as she no longer needs her.
It is enough for Miss Gifford, who has no
charms, no caprices, and but a very narrow
fortune of her own, to shine in the reflected

light of this glittering fairy queen, who is as
fair, slender, graceful, and sweet to look upon
as the lily whose name she bears.

Miss Somerset is lying back in the most comfortable
chair in the room, her long morning
gown of cream Madras muslin and lace floating
away in soft folds around her fragile figure.
Her beautifully shod diminutive feet are stuck
up on a chair in front of her. A cup of chocolate
is frothing on the table by her side, and
Miss Gilford is just engaged in the critical task
of selecting; the daintiest bit of sweetbread in
the dish, wherewith to tempt her (Lily's) fitful
appetite.

Put your hat on, Mabel, and go at once,"
Miss Somerset is saying, after there has. been
a short pause in the conversation.

Yes, dear. Go where ? " Miss Gilford replies,
acquiescently, but vaguely.

"To your brother, of course. Oh, I forgot
you didn't know what I have been thinking
about. I have just made up my mind that I
won't touch a thing, not a single thing, for
breakfast, until I know what Mr. Gilford means
by treating me in this exceedingly rude manner."

VOL. I. o

Rude, my dear ! Walter rude to you !
He couldn't be."

"It's bearish of him not to have come to
inquire for me this morning, after that hideous
journey yesterday; and I will not be treated
with churlish discourtesy by any man, least of
all by Walter Gifford. He inst come, and
make something like an apology to me, before
I touch anything this morning ; and if I go
without my chocolate, I'm always ill, as you
know ; so go at once, please."

Mabel Gifford rises promptly, and puts on
her hat ; but she sighs as she does it, for she
knows that her task is a hopeless one, and
that when lie comes back with it unfulfilled,
her loved tyrant will make her suffer for her
inability to perform it.

You must remember that Walter's time
is not his own," she says, feebly.

Then pray who's is it ? " Lily retorts,
imperiously.

Well, a doctor, you know, must consider
his patients before even his friends," Miss
Gifford says, humbly.

I will not have his patients considered

before me, and he would never be fool enough
to tell me that he does so," Lily says, with
smiling derision. " You are blundering, as
usual, you good, awkward old Mab, in your
efforts to defend your brother ; you had much
better simply do as I tell you  go and tell
him he must come at once. Leave the work
of explanation to him."

It is in Miss Gifford's mind to say, " Time
was when Walter would have left every
patient in the world for your sake, and then
you drove him from you." But she does not
say it, for it is the fondest desire of her heart
that these two shall come together again, and
she humbly acknowledges that she is not
gifted with the grace of uttering those seasonable
words which may bring this desirable
end about.

The young surgeon's house is in one of the
most picturesque quarters of the old city, but
the distance between it and the Uplands farmhouse,
where the two ladies are lodging, is as
wide as Walter has been able to make it.
His sister's feet grow tired, and her soul grows
sad as she walks it rapidly this morning, for

G 2

she detects a meaning in his having placed
them so far away.

He doesn't want to be in the way of
seeing her often, I'm afraid," Mabel soliloquises,
shaking her head. " And I really do
believe, now, that she's got to be fond of him,
and finds she can't do without him ; what a
thiuCT it would be for dear Walter. Five
thousand a year, and no one to interfere with
the way she spends it ! There'd be an end of
all the working and scraping and toiling, and
being beaten back by richer men, who can
afford to make more flourish about what they
do, if Walter will only love and trust her again."

.Walter is just coming out of his surgery
door, into the yard, where his stanhope is
waiting for him. The stanhope " looks prosperous,"
Mabel thinks, for it is well built and
well kept, and the big, powerfully modelled
bay horse that stands between the shafts hasa
satisfactory air of sleekness about him, that
reassures his owner's sister. Still ! " It is
hard work, grinding work, for poor Walter to
keep things up to the mark, I know," his sister
thinks, pityingly, as she steps across the

yard towards liii. Then in a moment it
flashes across her, that he may be Lily
Somerset's husband, and the master of five
thousand a year, if he pleases, and her pity
resolves itself into a sensible, practical, earnest
desire and intention, to see that he uses this
opportunity aright.

"You moving at this hour, after your journey,
Mabel," he says, addressing her in cheerful
accents, though he has no cheerfulness in
his heart, for he has not seen Ethel since that
day when he left her pouring out pity, that
seemed to him misapplied, for Lord Marcus
Boyne, about his brother Lord Kenmare.
How, therefore, should cheerfulness and himself
be " on terms " just now ?

Yes, Walter, and I'm here without having
had any breakfast, let me tell you," Mabel
says, querulously, and then, as she sees that he
is about to step into his stanhope, she makes
a sudden step forward, lays her hand on his
arm, and arrests his further progress.

You must come back with me, Walter.
Lily is  is hurt that you haven't been over
already; you'll come back with me now?"

Walter Gifford slowly takes out a notebook
of imposing proportions, and reads a
list of cases and the hours which he is bound
to give to them.

You see, Mabel, I have no time to give
to you this morning," he says, as he closes
the note-book.

Not to me, but to hei" his sister pleads
with unconscious pathos.

Nonsense, dear old girl." He speaks
with affected unconcern and indifference, but
within he is terribly moved. Why cannot
this Syren cease to lure him now, when he
is so nearly safely anchored in a far more
holy love ? Why cannot she cease to strive
to distract him ? Why cannot she cease to
be herself, in fact?

Nonsense, dear old girl ; my time is not
my own. Present my compliments to Miss
Somerset, and tell her that if she gets bilious
or neuralgic down here, I will come to her at
once, in pursuit of my calling ; but while she
is well and happy, she does not need me, and
other people do."

He steps up into his stanhope as he speaks,

and his sister imjerils all lier limbs in striving
to follow him.

But, Walter ! do listen ! "

Brightly he leans forward, holding the
reins, and looking horribly ready to drive
over her, she thinks.

"I am listening."

Think, Walter ; think of what I shall
have to endure when I go back without you !
Lily is nervous this morning ; take her as one
of the patients whom you will not neglect."

As his sister says this, Mr. Gifford thinks of
Ethel, the girl he loves and longs to marry ;
of Ethel, the girl who seems so heartily disinclined
to marry him just at present Then
across the thought of her, comes another
thought  a thought, lightning-like, of Lily,
who is all flush and glow, and passionate
resolve !

With all my heart, I wish Miss Somerset
had selected another spot to recover her
faded health in, and another medical adviser
than myself ; understand me, Mabel ! I will
not help Lily out in another sham ! tell her
so from me."

If I dared to do it, she would be sitting
in your surgery when you came home today.
Walter, be sensible, be led by Lily
and me."

Led ! to what ? "

To be Avhat you wanted to be once to
her. Oh, Walter, do listen, think of her
beauty, and sweetness, and money ; think ! "

Of their all beings the devil's snares
for me, and of how I won't be snared""
he said, coldly ; " go back to your friend,
Mabel, and tell her that T know now what
self-preservation means ; I shall not leave
my duty at lier bidding."

"And she won't touch a bit of breakfast till
she sees you," Mabel pleads, as she sees the
chances of her mission ending successfully
fading away.

Then I fear she will not breakfast to-days"'
he laughs, " for when I come back from my
rounds, I am due at Mrs. Heatherley's."

*who is Mrs. Heatherley?"

She is Ethel's mother, and Ethel is the
girl I hope to make my wife."

"Walter!"

Why this announcement ? "
I have never even heard of her."
No ; I have kept my heart's darling very
close," he says, meditatively.

Are 5ou teasing and trying me ? I hope
you are, Walter, for rather than go back and
repeat what you have just said, as a truth,
to Lily, I would  I don't know where I
wouldn't go."

Come up and have a quiet talk with
me this evening, Mabel," he answers, for
his sister's manner and appearance is too
flustered and heart-rending altogether for
him to hold further converse with her
now. A strong, brawny woman dissolved in
tears is a sight to make even strong men
shudder and depart from it ; they themselves
being the cause of the unseemly emotion
being the more cogent reason why they are
intolerant of it.

If this is what I have come to AUerton
Towers for, I could almost wish I had stayed
at home, though for months it has been the
dearest wish of my heart to see you, Walter,"
Miss Gifford says, half to her brother and half

to herself, as he drives away, and leaves her
ill the full morning light, clearly outlined and
very warm, in his stable yard.

Presently, stepping daintily and tenderly
across the paving stones, there comes a delicate
little lady, vigorously dressed in raiment
of the most gossamer-like grey. Intuitively,
Miss Gifford feels that this is an antagonist,
and when with a pardoning smile the transparent
intruder addresses her, the substantial
sister feels that Walter's path may be beset
with other snares than his own untoward will.

' lias Mr. Gilford gone? Ah! how unfortunate
I am, to be so late," the pretty little
lady in grey exclaims, disconsolately, and a
conviction starts through Mabel's mind, that
this can be no other than the Mrs. Heatherley
to whom Walter has declared he is due as
soon as he has finished his rounds.

My brother is gone for several hours, I
believe," Miss Gifford says, frigidly, and
Mrs. Heatherley, with eyes wide open with
perplexity and friendly feeling, murmurs :

"Your brother; is it possible? I am
delighted to meet such a sister of Mr.

GifFord's, for I take a deep interest in him,
and have so often wished that he had a
wise sister near him."

I am the only sister he has, and I am
near enough to him now," Mabel says,
fluently. " As to my wiseness ! we won't
say about that at present  as 3'ou are such
a friend of Walter's, I may venture to ask
your name."

"Oh! I am Mrs. Heatherley," the fair little
widow says, with the prettiest air of surprise
imaginable. That anyone should be ignorant
of her name and status, is not at all in order
at AUerton Towers.

Ethel's mother ! " Miss Gifford cries, surprised
out of prudence, and Mrs. Heatherley
nods her head assenting, and says :

Yes, Ethel is the name of my child, and
now you have come, I almost regret that I
have just made arrangements for taking her
away for a time ; she is so young, and as it
is so terribly dull here, at last I have yielded
to her unspoken plea for a change ; we leave
Atherton Towers just as you come to it, Miss
Gifford; can anything be more unfortunate''

Mrs. Heatherley does not even assume the
shallow appearance of being sorry for the
combination of circumstances which she is
verbally regretting, and Mabel Giilbrd feels
her face flushing with mortification. That
Ethel's mother is no more anxious for the
engagement to last and the marriage eventually
to come off', than she herself, Walter's
sister, is, is evident to her, and it angers her
that it should be so. She can justify herself
for undervaluing and lightly regarding the
unknown Ethel. But that Mrs. Heatherley
should presume to undervalue Walter, whom
she knows, goads Walter's sister into the
utterance of words of indiscretion.

"I have just heard something from my
brother that makes me feel rather surprised
at your daughter's desire to go away from
Atherton Towers," Mabel says, stiffly ; and
Mrs, Heatherley aggravates the already
aggravated sister still further by taking
no notice of her remark.

When did you say you expected your
brother home ? I am most anxious to see
him before I go, in order that he may prescribe

for my neuralgia. You would hardly
believe it, Miss Gilford, but I am a martyr to
my nerves "

My brother will be home in the course of
two or three hours," Mabel interrupts. "Are
you leaving so suddenly that you won't wait
to see him ? "

The train will not wait for us, my
dear Miss Gilford," the little widow says,
graciously ; " we leave in an hour, I regret
to say, as I, should much like to have seen
Mr. Gilford, so kind and nice as I have always
found him ; but the train, like the tide, waits
for no man, you know, and the hour is fixed
for us to join our friends the St. Justss, at the
station ; delightful people. Lord and Lady
St. Just ; I wish your brother knew more
of them. We have arranged a little tour
together. My Ethel is enthusiastic about
scenery. If we had been staying here, I
should have begged you to be kind enough
to come to the cottage and look at some of
her sketches ! as it is, unfortunately, all I can
say is, good-bye, dear Miss Gilford, and I
trust we may meet again."

Bewildered and annoyed as she is, still
Mabel has no definite ground of offence
against Mrs. Heatherley, and cannot, therefore,
refuse to take the graciously proffered
little hand which that lady extends.

But it seemed to sting me, Walter," she
says, by-and-bye, when she is reporting the
interview to her astonished and acforrieved
brother, who has not seen Ethel for a week !

Ethel, gone ! without a word to me ! Impossible
! " he says, sternly. Bit when he
goes up to the cottage to have the "mistake,"
as he believes it to be, triumphantly rectified,
he finds the place deserted and its occupants
flown.

The servants are " left in charge, on board-wages,
for six weeks at least," they tell him ;
but they cannot give him any address, as
missus said ' there Alas no need to forward
letters; everything would keep till she came
home."

He has a sharp tussle with his pride fora
few minutes, and then he asks :

'Is there no note, no message for me,
from Miss Heatherley ? "

"Not a line, nor a word, sir," they tell
him, cheerfully ; and his heart is atiame with
wrath and fear. Instinctively he feels that
Mrs. Heatherley is going to try the well-known
power absence has of making the
heart grow fonder of  somebody else ; and
his jealous fancy vainly strives to paint the
lucky man who will be fiendishly invited to
join the party by that atrocious old matchmaker.
Lady St. Just.

And, unless Ethel writes to me, I can't
send her a line, praying her to be staunch,"
he tells himself, miserably ; " her mother has-planned
it Avell ! I can't combat that false
little fairy, who looks as innocent as a harebell.
She has planned it well! And she will
teach Ethel to think me careless and in-indifferent."


There is no professional call on his time
this evening, and in his desolate, miserable
dulness he is more than half inclined to goto
the Uplands, where two women are waiting
to welcome him with warm gladness, in
sharp contrast to the two who have gone away
from him with callous indifference. But he

subdues the half intimation, telling himself
that he will be a true knight to Ethel, however
sorely she may try him.

It is disappointing after this to find his
sister and Miss Somerset waiting for him
under the verandah, outside his drawing-room
window.

CHAPTEE VI.

A FATHER S Prayer AND PLAN.

Ethel Feathered must be freed

K;$

Nliis from the odium of being suspected
of being either heartless or sly with
as little delay as possible. The temptation of
being taken into the heart of beautiful
scenery has been put before her suddenly
and adroitly by old Lady St. Just, who likes
interfering with a love-affair for love of interference
; and who, additionally, really thinks
that pretty Ethel Heatherley ought to marry
someone better than a country surgeon."
Having once committed herself to the public
statement of this opinion, she is determined to
leave no stone unturned in the path by which
she proposes to lead Ethel out of the local
difficulty; and, without consulting Ethel's feelings
or wishes in the least, proceeds to pull
various strings, by means of which she intends
to set various influential puppets in motion.

VOL. I. H

Keep her from corresponding with the
young man while she is away, and leave the
rest to me," her ladyship says to Mrs.
Heatherley, " and be ready to start within
an hour after Ethel hears that we are
going."

All letters shall wait our return, and
I'm always in light marching order," Mrs,
Heatherley says, blithely. " My only difficulty
will be in case she insists on seeing
him before she goes."

Don't let her know she's going till he has
started on his long morning round. The rest
will be easy. Ethel is not an infatuated
goose. She won't be impolite enough to
want to make us lose our train, in order that
she may take a sentimental leave of her
lover," Lady St. Just says, gruffly. And on
these lines Mrs. Heatherley works.

Ethel is apprised of the contemplated
pleasure-trip, made to engross herself with
"Dackincf, told of Miss Gifford's arrival with a

J. o '

lovely friend, who has already shocked the
worthy mistress of the Uplands by her eagerness
to see Mr. Gifford," and, in short.

admirably " managed " through the hour
that elapses between her hearing that she
is to go, and her going.

When, in a flush of pleased excitement at
the prospect of the change, mixed with a
blush at the sound of the alarming charms
of Miss Somerset, Ethel comes down ready
dressed for the journey. Lady St. Just is
Avaitinoj for them in her carriage at the
door.

Mother," Ethel Whispers, " you said
you'd go and tell Walter, and fetch him up.
Have you been? Why isn't he here?"

His sister was there, dear child, and 1
could not get a clear answer from her as to
where her brother was," Mrs. Heatherley says,
with affected hesitation. " Don't mind it,
dear ; if he's worth anything, he will not bedazzled
away from you, though they say this
Miss Somerset is very dazzling. I almost wish
I had not sent up to the farm for eggs this
morning ; then I should not have heard of
her beauty, and her anxiety to see ' Walter,'
as she calls him. The servant told Sarah
that the young lady wouldn't eat any breathe



fast till Miss Gifford went to fetch her
brother ; so, I suppose, he had gone to the
Uplands when I went to his house with your
message. Naturally, I did not leave it with
his sister."

Mrs. Heatherley speaks almost sadly, her
sympathy with her child is so strong. But
her heart bounds with delight when Ethel
replies :

Come, mother, dear ; Lady St. Just is
waiting for us. Walter will write to me, if
he cares still. Of course, he'll get our
address from the servants."

This is not said in the form of a question ;
consequently Mrs. Heatherley does not feel
called upon to answer it. In a few minutes
her heart bounds more exultantly still ! They
are clear out of Atherton Towers without
having met with any obstruction from Walter
Gifford. It will be six weeks before he will
have a chance of making a personal appeal
to Ethel ! Time is so kind in the way of
obliterating one set of impressions, and
substituting others. Ethel is so pretty, and
fascinating, and sensible ; and dear Lady

St. Just is so practical and successful as a
social diplomatist ! No wonder that Mrs.
Heatherley feels satisfied that these ensuing
six weeks will contain all the possibilities
on which she relies to save her.

"It has all been so sudden that I don't
even know where we are going, first," Ethel
says, as the train bears them free of Atherton
Towers.

"Be satisfied to know that Lady St. Just
has' arranged a series of most delightful
surprises for 3'ou, Ethel. You could never
have arranged anything half so charming
for yourself," her mother says, rapturously :
and Ethel strives to express gratitude, and
to repress curiosity. But the latter is very
strong within her, and will put forth its head
again presently.

"Shall we be travelling all the time. Lady
St. Just?"

We shall travel till we settle for a time,"
her ladyship says, and again Ethel combats
curiosity successfully for a few minutes.

"Shall wee settle for more than a week?"

Lady St. Just nods assent.

For a fortnight ; or a month perhaps P "

About a month ; that will bring us to
the end of September, and the best of the
shooting will be over then."

Oh ! Are we going to stay at a shooting
box ? "

"Yes."

"At one of Lord St. Just's?"

"At one he rents."

"Where is it? "

"In Gloucestershire."

Lady St. Just, do tell me a little more
about it ; I've never been at a shooting
box ; is this one large or small, beautiful
or bleak, and what is it called ? "

It's a bijou shooting box, and it's called
Boyne Gate," Lady St. Just says, fixing her
eyes full on Ethel. " If you want to know
more about it, my dear, you must get your
information from the Marquis of Monkstown,
of whom we rent it, when he and his son,
Lord Kenmare, come to stay with us in a
fortnight."

Ethel feels her face tingling as this abrupt
mention is made of Marcus Boyne's father

and brother ; but she struggles to speak
unconcernedly :

I thought Lord Kenmare was very ill ? "
The one you are thinking of died the
day before yesterday ; Marcus is Kenmare
now. And now, my dear, take your book
or keep quiet ; I like to read when I'm
travelling, and hate to be bothered with
questions."

Ethel is only too glad to avail herself
of the opportunity of hiding her confusion
under cover of being engrossed with a
book. Has Fate played her this trick, and
are her mother and Lady St. Just guiltless
in the matter of bringing her into collision
with that delightfully dangerous rock on
which her fidelity to Walter Gifford was
so nearly wrecked the other day? If Fate
alone is to blame, then will Ethel go
through the ordeal of another meeting
with Marcus without repining and without
reproach. But if her mother and Lady
St. Just are leagued against her and Walter,
then Ethel weill retire from the unequal
battle, lest she loses it.

Oh, Walter ! pray that I may be true if
I am tried," the girl says to herself, " for I
love you and honour you ; but the other loves
me so well, and tells me, too, so. warmly."

Meanwhile " the other "  his sorrowful
duty of soothing the last sad, nearly unconscious
hours of his afflicted brother over
is trying hard to reconcile the conflicting
influences of his father and his union love.

The young man's task is a hard one. He
is Lord Kenmare now, the heir and hope of
his house, and his father can but partially
conceal the satisfaction he feels in having
such an heir. The Marquis of Monkstown
has suffered keenly both in his affections and
his pride during the whole term of life
allotted to the poor boy who is now gone.
He has loved him, Kenmare, as a son, but he
has shrank with bitter sickening pain of mind
and heart from the thought of Kenmare as
his successor. And in a dim way the poor
young fellow, who has not been so altogether
witless as some have believed, has felt and
mourned over his own indolent inability to
satisfy. When this grief and mourning and

self-distrust has been overwhelming him at
times, he would have died under it, battered
down by the hard heavy cruelty of it, had
it not been for his brother Marcus. But
Marcus is too like the mother the-y loved and
have lost, to have anything but deep generous
love in his heart for his brother. So it is in
Marcus's arms that Kenmare has died, and to
Marcus's lot it falls now to bear the brunt
of the first burst of mino-led orgies and relief
which emanates from Lord Monkstown,
carrying with it a confidence which is
almost a command.

"While my poor boy lived I said nothing
to you about your cousin Caroline ; your
uncle would never have let her look at
you," lord Monkstown says to the son who
is Lord Kenmare now, and who will be
Marquis of Monkstown, the day after the
death which Marcus is deploring with boyish
honesty and fervour ; " but it's different
now, and it's my duty as a father to tell
you what good fortune may be yours for
the asking."

I think there's only one human being

on the face of the earth for whom I care
rather less than I do for my cousin Caroline,
and that is for my uncle Hawtrey," Kenmare
says, languidly. His thoughts are with his
dead brother and his living love, Ethel
Heatherley, " who will be sorry for his
loss when she hears of it." He does not
like having these thoughts rudely disturbed
by suggestions about relations whom he
rather dislikes than otherwise.

Caroline Hawtrey has fifty thousand a
year of her own," Lord Monkstown says.

Ah ! so I've heard ; she has reason to
bless Cotton. I suppose she'll buy a title
with it ; something bigger than her mother
succeeded in getting. Sir John Hawtrey
was quite a little one, but he's a more
decent article to hand about as a father,
than old Wollaston, of Manchester, is reputed
to have been."

Sir John Hawtrey is your mother's brother,
Kenmare," the Marquis says, rebukingly,
but his eyes kindle with sympathetic fire
when his son flashes out 

A brother who gave my mother many a

heart-ache, many a rude rebuff and harsh
word when she was Lady Kenmare, and some
of his bloated wealth might have made life
smoother than it was then for you and her.
My brother, perhaps, would not have been
afflicted as he was if his mother's brother
had been more of a man and less of a mean
brute before your eldest son was born, sir."

Forget old injuries, Kenmare ; Sir John
and I have been friendly now for many a
long year ; we buried the hatchet "

When you came to the title and a good
property ; yes, I know that, father ; but my
brother's case was beyond medical skill by
that time, I've heard my mother say, and when
Sir John Hawtrey sheds crocodile tears over
Kenmare's grave, I shall remember and perhaps
remind him that the nephew he professes
to lament might have been alive and well
now, if he had spared a few guineas from his
thousands some years ago to a sister's prayers
and tears."

Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive
them that trespass against us ; " quotes Lord
Monkstown, gravely and earnestly, laying his

hand on his son's shoulder. " Besides," he
adds, " in any case she is guiltless of all
offence against us. She must not be held
accountable or to blame for her father's
indifference and neglect. You are in a position
to ask for the hand of any woman in
England ; your uncle will admit that, though
his daughter is a magnificent match from the
money point of view, you will bestow a grand
equivalent on her ; and as you are free to
make it, I pray you to do so, my boy, for
Irish land no longer keeps up Irish titles."

I'm not free to make it," Kenmare says,
quietly. He has grown considerably older
during these sad days which he has spent by
the bedside of his dying brother. Manhood
and boyhood are separated by so fine and
delicate a line that a sharp touch of sorrow,
a keen feeling of responsibility, are, as a rule,
quite sufficient to break it.

Not free ! " Lord Monkstown has bushy
eyebrows and penetrating deep blue eyes.
His glance stabs like steel as he utters these
words  " Not free ! "

Well, not free in a sense," Kenmare says,

moving uneasily under the stabbing glance,
not from any feeling of shame for his love,
but because of the disquieting doubt he has
of having won anything like reciprocal feeling
from her,

In what sense, may I ask, are you  who
are responsible now for the honour of the
house and the welfare of the house  bound? "
the Marquis asks, with his grandest, because
it is his most subdued and intensely quiet
manner.

"I am neither bound nor free," Kenmare
says, trying to laugh away his own confusion.
"The truth is, sir, I have seen a girl who
seems to me to be the only girl I can ever
care to marry, but I am afraid she will never
care to marry me."

May I ask whether or not you have
confided these romantic sentiments to the
young lady ? "

I have let her know that I like her  that
I like her better than any one else in the
world," Kenmare says, flushing hotly.

And she, I presume, has been prudent
enough to say nothing definite?"

"Why should you presume that, sir?"
Kenmare asked, angrily.

"' Because I assume that you declared
yourself  while you were my second son 
with no income worth mentioning; it is
to the credit of the girls of this generation
that they are prudent enough to be indefinite
with younger sons."

She is not a girl of the class you are
thinking of, sir ! "

Good Heavens, Kenmare, I am thinking
of gentlewomen of our own class ! Is your
enslaver beyond that pale?"

She is the sweetest gentlewoman that ever
breathed," Kenmare cries, hotly ; " but she
is not a fashionable girl who regulates her
smiles to the fellows about her according to
their incomes ; the same day I told her dear
old Ken. was dying, I told her that I loved
her and would go back to her ; and she
stood out against me, and tried her best to
make me feel that nothing should ever tempt
her to "

He pauses abruptly; after all, he is not
justified in speaking of Ethel's engagement to

Mr. Gifford, to his father, who will regard it
as another insurmountable barrier to the accomplishment
of his own (Kenmare's) wishes.

Yes ! that nothing shall ever tempt her
to do  do what ? " Lord Monkstown asks,
icily.

To  to have anything to do with me,"
Kenmare stammers out, composedly, and Lord
Monkstown smiles in a weary, pitying way,
that shows he suspects his son is not stating
the case fully.

I will not ask you to tell me this young
lady's name ; it is probably one I have never
heard, nor will I ask where you met her ;
Townley ought to have known better than to
bring you in contact with designing rustic
beauty ; however, as things are, all is welland
I am happy to find that I can honourably
repeat what I said of you just now 
you are free to make the best match that
may be made in the kingdom ; I need not
add, my boy, that it is the fervent prayer of
my poor, over-tried heart, that you make it."

"Does Miss Hawtrey know of your
wishes ? " Kenmare asked, gloomily.

What are you thinking about ? " Is it
likely that we would risk wounding her
amour jropre until we were sure of your
prompt and eager acquiescence in the scheme
for your own happiness. Caroline will
accompany her father, and when they leave
we shall go back with them ; Boyne Gate is
close to Hawtrey's place, and I have accepted
an invitation from St. Just to stay there for a
month ; by the way. Lady St. Just hopes that
you will go to her for a few days."

Hate staying at Boyne Gate," Kenmare
grumbles, little guessing who will be thereto
make Boyne Gate an Elysium on earth to
him.

When you're tired of it you can go to
your Uncle Hawtrey's, and in her own home
you will have the best opportunity of studying
the best way of winning ray dear little
niece," Lord Monkstown says, conclusively ;
and for the time Kenmare feels that it will
be wise on his part to say no more of
Ethel.

The poor young fellow feels the iron entering
into him whichever way he turns. On

the one side is Ethel, who, though she has
not disdained, has unquestionably not encouraged
his suit, and on the other side is
his father unconditionally scorning him for
pursuing it  or rather, for wanting to pursue
it, and despising Ethel without knowing
her.

Jove ! she'd match him for pride, and
beat him hollow for savoir faire'' Kenmare
tells himself. At the same time he admits
to himself that his father will have a fair
amount of right and justice on his side
even if he does oppose an alliance with the
Fatherless with all his might.

The girl is perfect, as perfect as my wife
ought to be," the young fellow says, proudly
to himself, " but I wouldn't like to meet the
mother in the dark if I had offended lier ;
she'd as soon throttle that young doctor now
as look at him  for the sake of clearing m}
path ; and if an eligible duke cast a gracious
glance at Ethel !  the woman I want to make
my mother-in-law would gladly poison me !
All the same, I'll risk the surgeon's life and
my own for Ethel's sake."

VOL. I. I

FANNY YEARNS FOR ?

npHE travelling has been very pleasant,
pleasant as only wealth and experience
can make travelling, and, while
it has lasted, Ethel has scarcely been conscious
of missing anything ; for the girl is still
young enough and fresh enough to find
happiness in mere change of scene ; and,
moreover, she has been the pet of the party.
All things have been made to mould themselves
to her wishes, and the feeling of
consequence this course of treatment has
engendered has been very delightful to her.
Two or three people who were not in the
original programme have joined the party at
various places. The Bishop and his daughter
ran against them as they sauntered through
a Surrey village one evening, in a way that
would have surprised Lady St. Just and Ethel
much less than it did if they had only known

that Mrs. Heatherley had written to the
Bishop three days before, hinting that a
rencontre with him in this very place would
be one of the happiest incidents of the tour.
This bait would, she well knew, be quite
sufficient to catch his lordship, were it not
for his daughter. That young lady being
capable of interfering successfully for the
salvation of her parent, if free herself, it was
necessary to hang a tempting bait out for
her also, therefore, Mrs. Heatherley threw
a September fly for her, and landed her
cleverly.

I am sure Miss Templeton and you will
both be glad to hear that poor Lord Kenmare
has sufficiently recovered from the crushing
effects of the grief he felt at his brother's
death to promise to join us at Weybridge,
and, after a few days spent there in sketching,
boating, and fishing, to go on with us to
Boyne Place," the pretty little widow wrote,
laughing to herself the while, and telling
herself that "dear Fanny will leap at this
bait, and will bring dear papa to my feet
without delay, rather than lose the oppor-

I 2

unity of displaying her pretty innocence
and disinterestedness to Kenmare in the midst
of river scenery ! Let her come ! He will
never even see her when my Ethel is by."

So they are at Weybridge now, spending
the late August days very happily, according
to their respective lights. Lady St. Just, who
really loves Ethel Heatherley for her frankness
and good looks, loves sketching also, and is
well satisfied to sit for hours in one of the
exquisite glades on St. George's Hill, while
the young folks roam about, and lose themselves
in the wood, or to float idly in a boat
on the broad bosom of the Thames, while
Kenmare teaches Ethel how to hold her
line, and takes the little roach and barbel
off her hook, with a lingering tenderness
that is a maddening thing for Miss Templeton
to witness.

For Fanny does not do herself the injustice
of absenting herself from any of these
lounges through the wood and on the river,
and, to her surprise, Ethel never seems to
wish to rid them of her (Fanny's) companionship.
The Bishop's daughter is fairly

puzzled by this toleration, and is vexedly
uncertain whether it is attributable to indifference
to Kenmare or contempt for her own
charms. But whatever it may be, she takes
advantage of it to the utmost, and gives them
all to understand that " dear Ethel can't bear
to be a moment without her," And as Ethel
does not take the trouble to contradict this
statement, or in any way to tone it down, Ken-mare
is compelled to take a part constantly
in a trio while he is pining for a duet.

To tell the truth, Ethel is almost glad of
the girlish vigilance which protects her from
an outspoken avowal from Kenmare. For she
is tempest-tossed in her own soul now by
reason of the doubt of him, which Walter
Gifford's continued silence is causing her to
feel. And, worse than the silence, is the
rumour which every now and again floats
past her unwilling ear, relative to the beauty,
and bewitching charms and caprices, and the
lavish liberality to the poor, of Miss Somerset,
the doctor's sister's friend."

There is much of the happiness of " stolen
joy " in this period to Kenmare. He has

joined them at Lady St. Just's bidding, and
his father is well pleased that it should be
so, for every day the Marquis hopes to hear
they are at Boyne Gate, in Caroline's atmosphere.
An additional source of peace and
satisfaction to Lord Monkstown may be
found in the fact of his utter ignorance
and suspicion of Miss Heatherley being the
girl for whom iiis only son's heart is sick.

His son ]pas not kept him in the dark as
to the names of the other guests of Lady
St. Just. With a half-sense of its being
better to be. ingenuous than secret, Lord
Kenmare has written : " There are three or
four people here who seem to mean staying
on at Boyne Gate. The Bishop of Atherton
Towers, an old chap who would always be
Vicar of Bray, and who promotes men of
power and promise in his diocese without
regard to their views, provided they can
serve him when promoted ; and his daughter,
a girlish young creature, who means, I
fancy, to be Lady Kenmare ; Grove, the
Bishop's chaplain, a right good fellow, and
Mrs. Heatherley and her daughter. Mrs. H.

means the Bishop, as decidedly as the Bishop's
daughter means me, and if the latter goes
on neglecting her home policy on the
chance of widening her borders and annexing
me, she will find herself liberally endowed
with a step-mother before she has time for
protest or resistance."

" The governor can never say that I have
kept Ethel's being here dark," Kenmare tells
himself boldly, as he finishes writing this
letter, which carries the happy conviction
to his father's mind that " the boy is safe
enough with the St. Just set."

But though Kenmare tells himself that he
is putting himself beyond the reach of reproach
by writing thus, his conscience tells
him that he is acting disingenuously to say
the least of it, if not deceitfully, in throwing
his father off the right track by his mention
of the Bishop's daughter, and mere cursory
allusion to Miss Heatherley. It is in vain he
tells himself that he has written nothing: but
the truth. He knows that he has suppressed
the only part of it which holds vital interest
for his father.

The hotel at which they have temporarily
established themselves in Weybridge is down
close by the ferry. You have only to saunter
a few yards along the road, turn a corner
round a hedge, and you find yourself on a
slope of grass, with the broad shining river
running along at your feet.

The silence and the beauty of the scene are
very conducive to sentiment, especially by
moonlight ; and by moonlight Lord Ken-mare
strives to teach the full beauty of it,
and of all the possibilities it suggests, to
Ethel.

They are come to the very last August
days now, and the harvest moon is nearly
full. Dinner is over, and the elders of the
party have settled themselves to the work
that so speedily brings its OAvn sweet reward,
of peeling peaches and pouring out the wines
that best assimilate with the subtle flavour of
the fruit. The young people have strolled
out, nominally to look at the effect of the
moon over the extreme tip of the highest
chimney-pot. When they have admired this
exhaustively, a suggestion floats in the air

as to their going down to the river, and
Ethel and Miss Templeton act on it at
once.

We ought to follow the ladies and see
that they come to no harm," Lord Kenmare
says to Mr. Grove, and the latter immediately
assenting (though at the same time he practically
remarks that " the ladies are safe
enough), the quartette presently stand on
the bank looking out at the ferry.

suddenly the boat glides close up to them,
and without giving a thought to the consequences,
Ethel slips her hand out from
Miss Templeton's restraining arm, and reaching
a ste]) forward, cries :

Let us cross over to the other side,
do? Who will come with me?"

"You must not think of it, Ethel," Fanny
says, assuming the duenna demeanour far too
naturally to be in keeping with the youthful
rule she desires to play. " Papa won't like it,
and Em sure Lady St. Just "

"Mother won't mind my going, I know
that," Ethel laughs. "You had better all
three of you go back and proclaim that

you have no part With disobedient me. I
mean to go over."

And I mean to come with you," Kenmare
cries, jumping into the boat, and drawing
Ethel after him, and in an instant the ferryman
pushes off. Perhaps he feels that the
young pair in the boat are not dependent
for their current happiness upon the other
pair on the bank.

Miss Templeton's delicate pink cheeks grew
rosier even in the cold moonlight.

Did you ever see such an audacious girl
as Ethel Heatherley?" she exclaims; "dragging
Lord Kenmare away alone with her in
this way ; her conduct would be bold and
disgusting even if she were not engaged, as
it is it's disgraceful beyond everything."

It was not Miss Heatherley's doings that
the boat pushed off without us," Mr. Grove
laughs ; " she wanted us all to go, if you
remember ; it is Lord Kenmare who has
seized the opportunity."

"The opportunity! for what?"

For being alone with the girl he loves."

Nonsense ! she compels him to pay

her attention by flirting at him abominably,
but I am sure he's not serious," Fanny says,
sharply ; " I could tell by the way he looked
at me as he 2:ot in that he wanted me to 2:0
too ; but I am not in the habit of doing such
things," she winds up, lamely.

I think you're mistaken about his having
wished you to go with them," Grove says,
simply ; and then, without having the
slightest desire to mortify her, but just because
it is the case and he knows it, he adds :

I saw him slip a coin into the ferry-man's
hand, and heard him whisper ' Shove off.'
I wish him success with Miss Heath erle, withall
my heart ; she'll make a splendid little
marchioness and an equally good wife."

Miss Templeton shivers as she hears her
own fears and suspicions confirmed in this
way, and a gnawing desire to put herself
beyond Lord Kenmare's reach should he even
yet repent him of his evil ways and want to
reach her, takes possession of her. She has
resolved that she will not return to Atherton
Towers a free and fatherless thing. As the
Bishop's daughter she knows that she is

pretty nearly played out. But as the ambitious,
gracious, patronising, powerful wife of
a risuig mau, she may still play a distinguished
part m the secular element of clerical
life in the diocese.

And who so fitted to rise as the man
standing by her side? Her father's chaplain,
the one who steers the Bishop over
stormy seas with such safety and discretion.
There hangs about him, too, a halo of
romance, for he has loved her long and well,
she firmly believes, and nothing less than
the prospect of a coronet would have made
her waver from him. As it is, she congratulates
herself on the wavering having
all been done cautiously and decently, on
having been all done " inwardly," in fact,
and so being invisible to the naked eye.

In the course of the few minutes that
elapse between the ferry-boat leaving the
Weybridge bank and gaining the Clipperton
side, Miss Templeton, though she watches
it with all she has of heart in her eyes, has
come to the conclusion that " Mr. Grove
deserves to be rewarded by her for his touching

devotion and fidelity, and that lie will
reward him." It will be doubly his duty
after this to preserve papa from all those
perils to which bishops, who must talk (and
can't talk) in convocation and elsewhere, are
liable. And it will be doubly pleasant for
her to lay this honourable onus upon him
now on this evening, when Lord Kenmare
may be conceited enough to suppose that
she is suffering: from his desertion.

It does not occur to her for a moment
that, having herself loosened Mr, Grove's
shackles, he may be unwilling and unready
to tighten them again. He has been so consistently
kind, courteous, cheerful, affable,
and Avell satisfied during these last few weeks
in which she has been considerately letting
him down from the giddy eminence of her
flattering regard, that she feels safe in the
conviction that he has not observed the
change. And though it is mortifying to feel
that he has been so unobservant of aught
that concerns her, still the law of compensation
works, and she admits that in this case
it is better so.

It is difficult to begin again with him after
being out of practice so long ; but mere
difficulty is not sufficient to deter Fanny.
As soon as she can command her voice,
and feel sure of speaking in soft, kindly
tones, she replies to his remarks about
Ethel making a splendid marchioness and
an equally good wife by saying:

If you really think there is a probability
of such a happy ending to this thoughtless
freak of theirs, they will be just as well
pleased to find us gone when they come
back as waiting for them."

Unquestionably they will ; are you feeling
cold? Shall we go in? " he asks, with
amiable, ready, obtuse acquiescence.

Not in the least cold, and not at all
inclined to go in," she says, lowering her
voice so that he has to bend his head towards
her in order to catch the meaning of
her words. Then she turns and abstractedly
paces along very slowly in the opposite direction
to the homeward one, and, as in duty
bound, he courteously paces along by her
side.

The moon is making a silver pathway up
the river, and the silence around them is
unbroken. Now or never is the time for her
to indicate to him that she considers their
relations to one another are unaltered.

This is very sweet," she begins, looking
up at him, and her face, rising out of the
soft masses of a white Shetland shawl, is
very young and innocent in the moonlight.

Very jolly, indeed," he says, heartily.
And she replies, " Yet I'm sure we both long
to get back to the dear old Palace gardens,
where we've spent so many, many happy
hours together ; this travelling about is very
nice, but we always seem to be with other
people, and I am getting tired of it ; do let
us persuade papa to give up Boyne Gate
and go home, when the others leave Wey-
bridge."

I thought you were enjoying it, and
looking forward to the time at Boyne Gate
as much as any of us ? " he says, in some
surprise ; and then he is conscious that
Fanny is appealing to him with all the
mute power of appeal there is in woman.

Her eyes are raised with timid tenderness to
his, her hand sUps into his arm in order that
she may steady herself in crossing a rugged
bit of turf, and the Avoids she murmurs
tremble on her lips.

Happy ! Yes, I am ' happy,' because
after all, little as we have been seeing of
each other in the old way lately, still we
have been together. But / am very faithful
to my love of the old order of things at the
Palace ; yow never read to me here as you
used to do in the garden at home ; these
people come between us and make us seem
to drift apart ; and  well ! altogether, I shall
be happier when we are home again."

He cannot help understanding that she is
ready to love once again ; but he knows that
not only is he not ready, but that he never
will be able to make himself ready any more.
The coldness that he knows has not been
caprice nor uncertainty, but nothing better
than cool calculation on her part, has chilled
and nipped his budding regard for her.
Nothing will ever make it spring forth and
bloom again. But he is a gentleman and he

likes her, and is sorry both for the mistake
she has made in leaving him, and for the
mistake she is now making in coming back
to him.

"You're very fond of the old Palace, are
you not ? " he says, kindly ; and then he goes
on, " I don't wonder at it either, for I'm
sure if it had been my home as long as it
has been yours, I should be fond of it too."

"Are you not fond of it as it is?" she
asks, with tender reproach, and he thinks
it better for them both that he should be
very matter-of-fact about it.

"I think the Palace a very jolly place to
tent in for a time, but, to tell the truth, I
fear a cathedral-town sphere of work is nota
congenial one to me ; it's stasfnatinoj ; the
chaplaincy is too much of a sinecure for a
strong young fellow like me; I ought to be
in the heat of the battle, and some poor
fellow, who has nearly worn himself out in
his work, ought to have my easy berth."

Do you mean-you can't mean that you
think of leaving?" she gasps.

Indeed I do, Miss Templeton ; I can stand

VOL. I. K

contact with the rough edges of life, and
many of my brethren are physically unable
to do that, who yet would fill my present
comfortable niche quite as well as I do."

It will break papa's heart if you leave,"
she says, vehemently ; and then with a sob,
she adds in a whisper, " and mine, too."

I'm sure the Bishop will feel I'm right'"
Mr. Grove says, discreetly ignoring the whisper.
" Look ! they're crossing over again.
Shall we go bask and meet them ? "

Fanny's clasp on his arm grows tighter.
Shall she, the Bishop's daughter, meekly submit
to being conquered and discomfited by
her father's chaplain. It is not love, but a
wild craving desire to carry her point which
prompts her now.

Stop ! " she says, passionately ; " forgive
me. I know you have fancied me cold, or
not observant of your affection for me, but
your threat to go has shown me the state of
my own heart. I cannot let you go without
telling you that you have entirely won me
now  for I cannot part with 3'ou."

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.

k'EEHAPS the Bishop's daughter would
' not pursue her own course with such
remorseless zeal were she endowed
with the useful gift of prescience, which
would enable her to see the way in Which
her father is improving the shining hour of
her absence.

All the romance of the party has not gone
out into the moonlight by the river with the
young people ; in fact, Mrs. Heatherley, whose
grace and tact, and happy art of making the
best and most of any situation in which she
may find herself, has passed into a proverb
in her circle, has given the Bishop a glimpse
of a blissful domestic picture ! And the
Bishop has regarded it with affectionately
approving eyes.

Practically the mature pair are as much
alone as either of the young couples down by

K 2

the river. For Lady St. Just sleeps well after
a generous dinner, taken at the close of a
long open-air day ; and under cover of her
reassuringly deep and slumberous breathing,
Mrs. Heath erle shows the Bishop how easy a
thing it is to cross the delicate neutral line
between friendship and love.

We may not either of us look forward to
keeping our dear girls with us much longer,"
she murmurs, as, from the window which is
farthest from Lady St. Just, the Bishop and
herself watch the four young people turn the
corner to the river.

And we must prepare to part with them
cheerfully, if it is for their happiness that
they should go," the Bishop says, heartily.
To do him justice he has been quite ready to
part with his Fanny any day during the last
ten years. At some periods, when her yoke is
heavy, it occurs to him to feel that the time is
long in getting ripe for her flight from the
paternal roof.

Ah ! yes ! our love for them will make
us seem cheerfully resigned," the fair, bright
little widow says, with a mixture of sparkle

and pathos, that calls his attention to the
sweet blue of her eyes, and the exquisite
tenderness of her heart at the same moment ;
but we shall both be very dull and desolate
in our respective homes. When Fanny goes,
and I'm sure it will not be Mr. Grove's fault
if she does not go soon, yours will be a very
solitary life, though you will live it in a
Palace, my friend ! "

"Do you think that Grove thinks of this
still ? At one time I fancied that affection
was springing up between them, but lately I
have thought there was a certain stiffness and

o

want of cordiality towards him on Fanny's
part."

Mrs Heatherley's eyes sparkle more than
ever, as she reflects, that the real cause of
the change in Fanny has been the latter's
presumptuous desire to dispute the " big-game"
 Lord Kenmare  with Ethel. But
she merely says 

Trust me for reading these riddles aright.
I am almost as sure that your daughter
will be Mrs. Grove as I am that mine will
be Lady Kenmare."

The Bishop pricks up his ears. Good man
as he is, he is alive to the value of a good
worldly connection, and if Mrs. Heatherley is
to be the mother of Lady Kenmare, and by-and-bye,
of the Marchioness of Monkstown,
who so well fitted as the attractive little
widow to be the Bishop's wife, and the
enhvener of his solitude.

I shall give Fanny to Grove with great
satisfaction ; he will rise on his own merits,
for, quite independently of his having any
family claim upon me, I shall feel it my duty
to give him good preferment ; but as you say
I shall be a very solitary man when I lose my
daughter, and you ! "

He pauses, and his silence is so eloquent
that Mrs. Heatherley turns her face coyly
away as she relies 

I suppose rigid Mrs. Grundy will denounce
me if 1 venture to go to the Palace
to talk over these happy days that we are
spending together ! Days that unfortunately
are only too short, and too nearly at an end."

Mrs Grundy will never dare to asperse
you while I live, dear lady."

All! my dear lord, you forget that I am
not so very old a woman that you, an attractive
man, may dare to be kid to me without
calling forth comment and ' malignity : yet
though I shall be too cowardly ever to do it,
I will dare to paint a picture of cosy hours
spent with you in that grand library  of
sunny hours in your lovely grounds  of long
delightful readings. I take such a deep,
unceasing interest in politics, that when you
have the gout I muM come and read the debates
to you "

I will not have you contemplate that
contingency only," the Bishop says, feeling
almost young and debonair, as Mrs. feathered's
facile mental brush puts in the lights
and shades of these pleasantly-pictured possibilities.
But, though he says this, a vision
of himself prostrate and in pain, without the
presence of this most soothing woman, rises
before him and pleads for her !

She lias precisely the voice for reading
aloud clear, sweet, and not too rapid.
She is well off, too, and will not limit the
hospitalities of the Palace severely', as this

daughter has done at times. If he must
lose Fanny for Fanny's good-sho can
blame him for seeking the constant companionship
of a mind and heart-stirring
woman, in the most unexceptionable way ?
It is not good for bishops to live alone,
more than any other man ! She will be
essentially the right woman in the right
place  averse to frivolous gaiety, and admirably
contented with cosy hours with
him in the library, and political readings
by his couch of pain.

I will not have you contemplate the
contingency of my illness only ; with you
by my side, constantly, I should be happier
and, therefore, healthier probably, than I
have been since the death of my  I mean
since I have lived a sedentary and secluded
life. The responsibilities of the position I
venture to offer you are many," the Bishop
goes on, with unconscious pomposity. " Its
worldly gaieties are of necessity few ; but
your place will be a high one ; a fierce
light will shine upon you, and I feel sure
you will bear it bravely."

He pauses, his eloquence checked by an
untimely remembrance of his daughter, and
of the wrath that young lady will feel and
display when she hears of what he has been
about in her absence. But Mrs. Heatherley
fills the pause graciously.

"I won't affect to misunderstand you," she
says, with an amount of womanly self-possession
and frankness that is rather
embarrassing to him for a moment, for Lady
List. Just is giving signs of waking, and he
feels that this vital matter is to be clinched
in her presence.

1 won't affect to misunderstand you, my
lord, and I accept the honour you have done
me with the more readiness, because I feel
that I shall fill the position of your wife in a
way that will redound to yoivr credit, as it
shall redound to my own."

she strikes the key-note of the tune to
which she means to set our altered lives in
that speech," the Bishop says to himself, in a
little spasm of alarm at the boldness and
irretrievably of the step he has taken.
And he is right ; Mrs. Heatherley has taken

the reins into her own fair, firm little
hands, and will drive the episcopal chariot
where and how she pleases from this day
forth.

The matter is all settled, and he is receiving-lady
St, Just's congratulations before he has
quite decided in his own mind whether or not
he has asked this woman to be his wife !
Then, in a few minutes, his daughter and his
chaplain come in, and he is observing with
alarm that Fanny's brow is ominously
clouded, and her lips pressed alarmingly
together. Mrs. Heatherley burns his boats
behind him by saying, playfully 

Tell my new daughter that I am going
to try and fill the place she has adorned so
long, and to share her care of you.'''

To which Miss Templeton replies, unpropitiously,
" Papa will never waste his time
in trying to make me believe such an
utterly incredible thing, Mrs. Heatherley."
At which display of temper the pretty widow,
who has won the game, and who can,
therefore, afibrd to be affable and forgiving,
smiles her sunniest smile, and putting

her gentle powerful little paw on her 
Bishop, says :

"I hope, dear, that my child will accord
you a warmer welcome into her family
than your daughter accords me into yours.
If you can't give me a daughter's affection,
Fanny, I hope at least you will tive me a
sister's sympathy," she continues, so sweetly,
that Fanny feels it will be impolitic to exhibit
resentment at the allusion to her
having passed girlhood.

Papa's wife will not stand in need of
sympathy from me"' she says, brusquely,
and Mrs. Heatherley passes by the observation
with magnanimous unconcern, feeling
sure that she is not the only bitter
drop in Fanny's cup at present.

Allow me to offer you my heartiest
congratulations and warmest hopes for
your happiness," Mr. Grove says, with a
bold acceptance of the situation that enables
the Bishop to hold up his head.

Mrs. Heatherley rewards the speaker at
once.

And allow me to say that I hope you will

be very, very often at the Palace to witness
that happiness, Mr. Grove, when you can
spare the time from the prettiest rectory
and parish in the Bishop's gift "

Livings are in papas gift, not yours
yet'' Miss Templeton interrupts.

But he shall not stray about among the
vacant ones in solitude and uncertainty as to
whom he shall bestow them on any longer,"
Mrs. Heatherley says, caressingly. " I mean
to take the greatest interest in everything you
do and think of doing, dear," she continues,
and the Bishop smiles feebly, but withal
sullenly. To be called " dear," and openly
comforted, was not in the agreement he
made with himself about the terms he would
make with Mrs. Heatherley. However, he
keeps silence, for to protest or rebuke, and
fail to subdue, would be fatal, indeed, just
now.

I'm afraid I shall not be in the way of
benefiting by your patronage," Mr. Grove
says, blithely and frankly. He is not displeased
with Mrs. Heatherley for the tone
she has taken  he will be out of the diocese

soon ; this, for one thing, and, for another,
her rule is, or will be, a more graceful one
than Fanny's has been. Nevertheless, he is
sorry for Fanny, and, if it were possible, he
would go back to his old ground with her,
and remove her from the humiliations to
come.

But it is not possible ! He had never been
in love " with her, and now he was quite out
of the habit of her ; and this he had given
her to understand fully and clearly during
the last ten minutes which they spent alone
together in walking; up from the river.

But he had done this with courtesy and
consideration ; allowing her to suppose that
the change in him had been wrought by herself,
sparing her all the mortification that is
possible, by his manner of suggesting that he
has believed it to be her desire to alienate
him.

Thus, on the surface, her pride is spared,
though in her heart she knows well that his
regard for her could never have been as
strong as she thought it, since it has been
so easily killed.

Nevertheless, this tone, which he has
chivalrously taken, will make the task which
is before her -of accounting for its being allover
between them  a far easier one than it
would have been had Mr. Grove simply
backed out of the semi-entanglement without
this flattering explanation.

Fanny has a keen recollection of having
given all and sundry of her lady friends and
acquaintances to understand that it rests
with herself to convert the bachelor chaplain
into the Bishop's son-in-law, any day she
pleases. She has even gone so far, in
moments of elation, as to hint that his
pertinacity and jealousy have been the
winning powers that have moved her, and
to imply that he had to fight hard and
humbly for the victory which he has finally
attained over her virgin heart. She knows
well that these hints and suggestions will be
remembered against her when Mr. Grove
openly resigns her and the chaplaincy, and
goes off without any visible mark of having
suffered in the conflict, upon him. There will
be many to say that she has deluded herself

all along, and that the love-passages which
she has prettily confessed, have been purely
imaginary.

By-and-bye Ethel and Lord Kenmare come
in, and Mrs. Heatherley is disappointed at the
first glance. Kenmare looks dispirited, and
Ethel is flushed and distressed in appearance.
The girl's first words, too, prove that golden
as the opportunity by the moonlighted river
has been, the young people have not made the
most of it, as Nature and Providence seemed
to design, by getting engaged.

Mother, I want to go home tomorrow
instead of going to Boyne Gate ; no. Lady
St. Just, don't say that I'm tired of you, and
don't be angry with me ; I can't be happy
until I know why Walter GifFord seems to
have forgotten me."

You're not weak enough to waste a
thought about a man who even seems to
have forgotten you, I hope," her mother
says, coldly, and the flush deepens on Ethel's
brilliant face as she answers:

Yes, I am ; for I know it's only seeming."

Mr. Gifford must be unlike any other

fellow in the world if he could forget
Miss Heatherley," Lord Kenmare says, with a
gallant effort, "though I wish, with all my
heart, you could forget him," he adds, in a
low tone, to Ethel.

Perhaps I wish it, too," she murmurs, for
the pertinacious young lover who is present
does contrast favourably just now with the
apparently negligent one who is absent. And
on the strength of these words, uttered partly
in pique and partly in idleness. Lord Kenmare
determines to persist in his suit, and to finally
win both Ethel and his father to regard it
favourably.

I want to speak to you in my room tonight,
Ethel," Mrs. Heatherley says, rising up
and silently extending her hand to the Bishop,
who takes it and retains it honos enough to
give Ethel time to see that something has happened
between her mother and the Bishop.
Then the newly-betrothed pair separate, and
the Bishop says good-night to Ethel in a paternal
and benedictory way that informs her of
the truth, before her mother can word it
touchingly and gracefully.

"Mother," the girl begins, as soon as she
gets into her mother's room, " what is it ?
what does it mean ? The Bishop patted my
head as if I had been a little child, and
Fanny glared at me as if I had wanted him
to do it  what does it mean ? "

Before I tell you that, tell me chat you
mean by making a scene about Mr. Gifford,"
Mrs. Heatherley says, reproachfully.

Ethel's arms are round her mother's
neck in a moment. The girl wants to be
strengthened and supported in her intention
of being leal to her absent lover.
She is made of the stuff to hate herself if
she does eventually fall away from her freely
given promise to marry Walter Gifford by-and-bye.
Yet, all the while she feels that
Lord Kenmare, with his warmly-proffered
love, his great personal beauty, and his winning
way, is a great temptation to her.

Oh, mother ! say something kind of
Walter; help me to keep on loving him
best," she pleads, with her arms clinging
closely round her mother's neck.

"My dear Ethel, nonsense! Mr. Gifford

is showing plainly that he can resign you,
and it is your duty to me and to yourself
to regard your eno-acfement with him as at
an end. I am not going to say anything
to you about Lord Kenmare more than
this : that his preference for you demands
this return  that you do nothing hastily ;
it would grieve the Bishop  to say nothing
of myself  if you raise any objection to
going to Boyne Gate.

The Bishop has nothing to do with me,
and if I do what I think right I don't
care whether he's grieved or not."

"The Bishop's wishes are paramount with
me ; in running counter to his desire for
your welfare, you will be directly opposing
me  your mother ! "

Oh, Mother ! dont bring him in between
us," Ethel says, tempestuously. "What can
it be to him whether I go to Boyne Gate,
or, for the matter of that, whether I ever
speak to Lord Kenmare again?"

"The Bishop does me honour in proposing
to become my husband, and he does you
honour, Ethel, in proposing to treat you as

his own daughter"' Mrs. Heatherley says,
with the air of patient sweetness that she
has invariably found useful in the subjugation
of Ethel.

Mother, dear, let him do you all the
honour he can  he can't shoal you too much
homage for your goodness in giving your
darling, pretty self to his service ; but don't
let him try to ' father ' me ; if he wants
Lord Kenmare in the family for his own
honour and glory's sake, let him marry
Kenmare to Fanny."

You were never a silly child, Ethel,
always my brightest and best companion ;
don't be a silly girl ! " and with these words
Mrs. Heatherley dismisses her daughter with
a kiss, and proceeds to write an autumn
programme for herself.

Let me see ! " she says, meditatively
pausing, pen in hand, for a minute or two ;
a fortnight at Boyne Gate will bring us
to the middle of September ; by that time
Ethel will be settled  the child is too
sensible to continue contumacious, and
Kenmare is too fascinating to be resisted

L 2

AUert(?n Towers.

long. Then home for a month of preparation
! The weddings shall be the third
week in October, and before I sleep I'll
write to Worth about the dresses."

SISTERLY ZEAL.

(LL the place is talking about it, so

0m it must be true," Miss Gifford
says, angrily and conclusively, to her brother,
when he disputes her assertion that there is to
be a double wedding at the cottage soon,
dien Mrs. Heatherley will take the Bishop to
honour and obey her, and her daughter
will marry Lord Kenmare.

Lily and I have been in at Turner's,"
Miss Gifford continues, animatedly, " and
they showed us the order for the costumes,
eight for Mrs. Heatherley, and eight for
Miss Heatherley. The bridal dresses are
coming from Paris, Mrs. Turner says, but
there is no doubt about these eight a-piece
being trousseau dresses, and so, naturally,
there is no doubt about Miss Heatherley
going to marry Lord Kenmare."

"I will, not believe it jet," Mr. Gifford

says, stoutly ; but it vexes him to* see that
his sister and her friend exchange smiles
that seem fraught with pity for his contemptible
blindness.

I would not believe it  yet," Lily Somerset
says, quietly. " I would wait on in patient
endurance until the wedding-day, and all
doubt is over, if I were a man and in your
place. I would give the woman I loved all
the satisfaction and honour and glory I could.
I would not give her indifference for indifference,
scorn for scorn ; I would show her
that I was the real ' gentle tassel,' ready to
be whistled back again at any moment.
But when I had done all this, and been requited
by her according to my deserts, I
would never dare to ask another woman to
love me."

Walter Gifford strokes his moustache,
meditatively, as he listens to this harangue,
which Miss Somerset delivers with the most
absolute composure, in silvery, unruffled
accents.

I am never likely to ask another woman
to love me," he says, presently, and Lily

nods her head at him in an approving way
that provokes rather than soothes him.

Of course, you are not likely to do it ;
it wil be only due to Lady Kenmare to show
her that where she has ruthlessly wounded
no other can heal. And what an amusing
story Mrs. Templeton will make out of your
fidelity to her beautiful daughter ; you'll bethe
topic at the Bishop's dinners and the
Bishops's garden-parties for a time ; and I
shouldn't wonder if the fact of your wearing
the willow publicly increased your practice
considerably. I hope it will, I am sure, for
the law of compensation ought to work in
some way."

It is working already," he says, trying
to speak gaily ; " it is making you think
about me, and talk to me more than you
have for years."

They are sitting in the rafter-roofed, old-world
sitting-room at the Uplands ; it is easy
for Miss Gifford to slip out of the room at
this juncture without distracting their attention,
or in any way disturbing them. The
daylight is waning, and the moon has not

risen yet. From their seats in the wide
window-recess, the old-fashioned garden, in
which pear and apple trees are mixed up in
picturesque confusion with tall hollyhocks
and sun-flowers, and feathery plants of
waving asparagus that has gone luxuriantly
to seed, looks quaint and attractive. Just
under the window a mass of lemon-thyme
and mint surrounds a few sweet-scented
bushes of late-flowering; roses. Altogether
there is a softening, subduing influence in the
beauty and the perfume that permeates the
atmosphere. And Walter Gifford, wearied
as he is by a hard day's work, and many
conflicting emotions about his absent Ethel,
feels that it is pleasant to look upon so fair
a scene with such a sympathetic companion.

Pleasant but dangerous, as Lily droops
the face that is as fair as her name with
languid tenderness towards him, and murmurs
in reply 

Does it please you that I should show the
interest I have never ceased to feel in you by
saying bitter things of the girl who has won
your love only to throw it away like an old

glove ? Oh ! I am vexed with myself for
having been so weak as to give you such an
occasion for triumphing over me."

Heaven knows I have never felt triumphant
where you have been concerned," he
says, moodily ; " and even now I know that
you only portray interest in me as you gather
flowers  to please yourself for the moment."

Walter, you wrong me, indeed you do, in
thinking so of me now ; there was a time
when I did not appreciate you, a time when
in my egotism I told you so for granted that
1 did not think it possible to wear out your
regard by my caprices ; but you taught me a
sharp lesson, and I have learnt it well ; you
can't forgive, any more than I can forget."

I forgave you all the pain you made me
suffer long ago," he says, frankly; "but you
are right in hinting that I can't reconstruct
the old romance; you wouldn't be happy if I
attempted to do it ; you would feel naturally
that you deserved more than grateful friendship,
which is all that I can ever offer you."

If Ethel Heatherley had never existed

you would be more forgiving to me I "

You shall not speak of forgiveness ; you
broke the chain of feeling which once bound
us together, yourself; I haven't the power
of re-uniting the links, that is all. Perhaps if
Ethel Heatherley had never existed I should
have carried ray end of the chain up to this
present day ; as it is "

She will cease to exist for you when she
becomes Lady Kenmare ? "

She will  God bless her ! but she is not
Lady Kenmare yet, nor will she ever be," he
says, heartily, gathering fresh faith in Ethel
from the force of his own words.

Lily leans through the open window and
gathers a sprig of something at random. It
happens to be mint, and as she presses it and
smells it, and then hands it to him, she says,
prosaically, and as if the preceding conversation
had not been one of vital interest to
her, " We shall always think of each other
and of what we have been saying in future
Avhen we see roast lamb and mint sauce,
shan't we? shockingly commonplace, isn't
it ? but so true and we both like truth."

Then she rises from the window, and irons

back to a corner in the room where an old
piano stands, and, sitting down to it, she
begins to sini " In the Gloamino-."'

As her soul-fright voice gives power and-pathos
to the song, which in itself is mere
prettiness, Mr. Gifford, who has borne himself
bravely in the battle up to this point,
feels that he is vulnerable after all. Why,
if Ethel is false, should " what has been "
with Lily " never be again ? "

To love is best, but to be loved is good,"
he tells himself, and there is something of
this sentiment expressed in the way he holds
Lily Somerset's hand when he says goodnight
to her,

"Well!" Mabel, the over-anxious sister, asks
eagerly, as she comes back to the room after
accompanying her brother to the garden gate,
Well, how are you and Walter getting on ? "

We shall get on better when Miss
Heatherley is married'"

It's tame of Walter to wait till all the
world has seen that she has thrown him
over," Miss Gifford says, indignantly, and
forthwith she determines to do something

rather desperate, for the sake of what she
deems the honour, and dignity, and happiness
of her brother.

Miss Gifford does not hold the pen of
a ready writer, therefore her self-appointed
task is a laborious one, and occupies her
well-nigh through all the hours of the night.
Weariness and sleepiness is her portion in
the morning, but she gets up bravely and
waits upon Lily Somerset as assiduously as
ever, for she has upon her the pleasing consciousness
of having done a good work
for her brother.

This " good work " goes forth by the midday
post from Atherton Towers in the guise
of a letter to Miss Heatherley, whose address
the devoted sister has procured, at the
cost of a considerable amount of speciously
worded enquiry, from the head milliner at
Turner's shop, and Ethel receives it three or
four days after her arrival at Boyne Gate.

It is as follows : 
Dear Madam, 

I must begin by offering you a profound
apology for the liberty which 1, a

stranger, take in addressing you at all.
Xothini: but the earnest desire I have to seethe
welfare and happiness of my dear brother
secured could excuse this conduct, even in
my own eyes.

"A rumour has reached us that you are
about to make a brilliant marriage very
shortly, but my brother refuses to accept the
release from his engagement to you until he
hears from you that he may take his freedom
honourably. My reason for hoping that you
will act thus generously is, that I have good
reason to know that my brother would find
happiness with another, if it were not for his
scruples concerning you ; and I am sure,
from what I have heard of your nobility of
character, you would not wish to stand in
his way now that you have preferred another
to him.

My brother is not aware of my intention
of writing to you, nor do I wish him to
know it, as, unless he feels that your action
is spontaneous, and not the result of interference,
he may refuse to be influenced by it.

In conclusion, my dear young lady, let

me pray you again to pardon this bold act
of mine, and to believe that I am actuated
solely by my affection for my brother, and
my heartfelt belief that what I ask you todo
will enable him to become a happy and
wealthy man.

I am, dear Madam,

Respectfully yours,

"Mabel Gifford."

Happily for herself, Ethel is alone when
she receives this extraordinary epistle. Her
first indignant impulse upon reading it, is
to enclose it to Walter, without a word. Her
next is to write to him, asking, " if it can be
true that he is not only willing to let her go,
but ready to console himself with ' another,'
as his sister puts it ? " This is the reasonable
and right impulse ! Unfortunately, however,
Ethel does not act upon it, but reads the
letter over again and again, until her whole
soul is filled with anger and mortification, and
while this last and worst mood is upon her
she writes to Walter 

Do not let any further thought of me
weigh with you for a moment longer. I

have gone out of your life for ever ! and
I can only hope that you Avill seek happiness
where you can find it, and as soon as
possible forget that Ethel Heatherley ever
existed." '

"Mother," she says, an hour or two afterwards,
coming upon that lady and the Bishop
in one of the many sequestered walks that
intersect the Boyne Gate grounds, " I have
something to tell you."

The girl turns into a side path, and looks
as if she expected her mother to follow her.
But Mrs. Heatherley is indisposed to do anything
that may look like independent action
in the eyes of the Bishop.

"You may feel sure that the Bishop will
listen with glad interest to anything that concerns
you, dear," she says, with her freshest,
youngest air of innocent reliance on the
Bishop's affections ; but Ethel is in the
wrong mood to return her mother's fascinating
lead.

"If you won't come and hear my news,
mother, I will keep it for a more convenient
season," the disappointed daughter says, with

a catch in her voice that appeals to so much
as is motherly in the vain little widow's heart.

Spare me for a few moments, will you ? "
she says, coquettishly ; " my child is a little
tiny bit jealous of the time I give to you, I'm
afraid ; " then she adds in a whisper, " she
reveres you too much to speak familiarly
before you yet, but love will soon cast out
fear when you are her father."

Very proper, nice feeling on her part, I
am sure," the Bishop says, benignly. To
tell the truth, reverence is not precisely
the sentiment with which he himself fancies
he has inspired his pretty widow's handsome
daughter. Nor, indeed, to do him justice,
does he desire to insist upon a display of
filial feeling from the young lady. But,
for the future, his ways and wishes will be
moulded and guided by a stronger hand
than his own, and, like a man, he prepares
to bow to the inevitable.

So Mrs. Heatherley trips along after
Ethel, who walks rapidly to a recess in
the high laurel hedge, where she stops, and
begins at once 

I have broken off my engagement with
Walter Gilford to-day, mother ; don't ask
me why I have done it, and don't build
any fallacious hopes upon it. I have done
it! and I'm more unhappy than I ever
thought it possible I could be ; but I don't
want to go back to AUerton Towers. I
would rather go away where no one will
over speculate about me and my lost happiness."


My darling, you will be rewarded for
this obedience to my wishes, and to the
dictates of common sense, by meeting with
one who will make yOur lot a far happier
one than it could ever have been as
Mr. Gifford's wife," Mrs. Heatherley says,
rapturously ; but Ethel shakes her head
and says 

"No, mother, you will be burdened with
me all my life, or rather the Bishop will be ;
I won't let myself fancy anything so evil
as that you will ever wish me away from
you."

Again the maternal instinct is aroused,
and tears of genuine feeling for her daughter

VOL. 1. M

well up into Mrs. Heatherley's bright blue
eyes. But when she speaks there is a
nervous quiver in her voice that sounds
more like fear than love.

I shall never know a moment's peace,
Ethel, my darling, till you are well married,
and removed from the possibility of any
change in my fortunes affecting you."
Ethel smiles sadly.

My dear little mother, for your sake the
Bishop won't grudge me a corner in the
Palace, and, if he does, why shouldn't I
live on at the cottage ? "

There are many reasons why ; but it's
ridiculous to talk seriously in this strain,"
Mrs. Heatherley says, sharply ; and for a few
moments she looks quite middle-aged and
haggard. Then with an effort she resumes
her youth and gaiety, and runs back to the
Bishop as if her feet were not shackled,
and her brow burdened with a weight of
secret care.

I must tell you the good news at once ;
my dear child has made me quite happy by
freeing herself from that foolish entanglement

with the young surgeon," she says, sliding
her hand under the Bishop's arm.

It was not a regular engagement, I understand?"
he asks, and she tells him 

Oh, no ! a foolish arrangement between
two thoughtless young people, of which I
never could approve ; his connections are
not in our class of life at all, I should say,
from the little I saw of his sister."

I can never bring myself to countenance
a breach of such a solemn thiner as a
regular, authorised, sensible engagement,"
his lordship says, sternly. Then, having
asserted his prerogative to judge and condemn,
he relapses into affability, and expresses
a hope that Lord Kenmare will
now catch Ethel's heart in the rebound.

"I shall certainly advise him to seize this
golden opportunity," he says ; and Mrs.
Heatherley, who dreads the effect of anything
like interference on his part, is obliged
to entreat him to observe the golden rule
of silence when Ethel's heart affairs are
concerned.

In Toot time it will all arrange itself,

I am sure," she says, confidently, for she
does not dare to allow herself to doubt
and fear about Ethel's future. If her
daughter does not make a wealthy marriage,
with a man who will for love of Ethel be
both liberal and discreet, the blithe little
widow, who has always passed for a
wealthy one in Atherton Towers society,
will be poor indeed.

Lord Kenmare has not accompanied them
to Boyne Gate. A letter from his father,
peremptorily demanding his son's immediate
presence at Sir John Hawtrey's house hard
by, has relieved Ethel from the embarrassing
daily intercourse with the young man whom
she has refused to marry, but whom lie
likes with a warmer liking than she has for
anyone else on earth, excepting Walter
Gilford !

She must not be thought either inconsistent
or fickle, when it is said of her that there has
been so much sweetness in this daily intercourse
that she misses it very sadly now that it
is over. There are moments when she longs
for his presence again, longs to hear his ardent

adoriiior words, that will not be silenced ;
longs to see his boyishly frank displayed of
desperate regard for her ; longs, in fact, for
the sight of " the only one who is true
and loyal and staunch to her," as she tells
herself, thinking sorrowfully of Walter.

It must be admitted that life is not very
lively at Boyne Gate. Lady St. Just having
failed in bringing matters to a successful issue
between Lord Kenmare and Ethel, and being
rather annoyed than otherwise at her old
friend, the Bishop, having suffered himself to
fall captive to Mrs. Heatherley's bow and
spear, is rather tired of this family party
which she has brought upon herself. If
Ethel would only be sensible, and accept the
love that is offered to her, Lady St. Just
would take the credit of making the match to
herself next season, and feel pride and pleasure.
But as Ethel is contumacious, there is
a flatness about the group, which falls upon
Lady St. Just, who revenges herself by being
so depressing that even the Bishop feels that
the atmosphere of his Palace is exhilarating
by comparison.

I can't help thinking that our friend is
expecting a fresh relay of guests ; possibly it
may not suit her arrangements to have us
here any longer," he hints to his bride-elect.
But she, having her own reasons for staying
away from Atherton Towers until her wedding-day
is near at hand, tells him that " for her
child's sake she has resolved to stay and
meet and conquer Lord Monkstown."

It is a little thing to Mrs. Heatherley, who
has large things at stake, that her august
hostess should be obviously tired of her and
her future spouse.

He is heavy, deadly heavy, when he
emerges from the cloudy splendour of bishop-hood,
and becomes a mere man, affecting
harmless sprightliness," Mrs. Heatherley says
to herself, with a laugh and a shrug of the
pretty supple shoulders  whose undulations
the Bishop is observing at the moment with
admiring eyes  " but I shall have to endure
the burden of being bored by him so long as
we both do live. Why shouldn't Ladj St.
Just have a sensation of what I shall have to
bear ? Ethel and I compensate her amply for

Fanny's cautious insipidity, and her father's
excellent uninterestingness," So for the sake
of a certain something, which she does not
confide either to her child Ethel, or her
captive Bishop, Mrs. Heatherley puts her
pride aside, and stays on where she is
obviously not wanted.

Success appears about to crown her in one
direction, at least, when she hears that on the
following day " six guns," chosen for their
well-known prowess over turnip fields and
against partridges, are going out from Boyne
Gate for a hard day's work, and that their
arduous labours are to be relieved by the
ladies and luncheon at Bale Coppice at half-past
one. For among these six are the
Marquis of Monkstown and his son, Lord
Kenmare.

"I hear that Lord Monkstown is a sweet
old man," Mrs. Heatherley says to the Bishop
; " and [I am sure when he sees Ethel,
and finds how perfectly she behaves, never
giving Kenmare the slightest encouragement
to make love to her, and yet showing her
liking for him in such a pretty, frank way,

I an surf quite, quite sure lai he "veil]
?:Tip:>r: his son's suit, and thai our daring
Ziiiel will be made happy almost against
her will

~ A Higher Power than ours directs these
times," the Bishop sars. with the impressive
tcaae that is pronounced to be ** ver teOing "
by his admirers when he is divine a Charge
ful] of flawless commonplaces. Bat at the
same time, despite this verbal expressed of
pious radiance, be is clad that Mrs, Heatberiey
will have such an excellent opportunity of
loing a mundane hand towards the fcH"-
mjUicm of so gratifying a connection.

There is a sort of tacit agreement between
Lady Jst. Just and Mrs. Heatherley to the
effect that Ethel shall not be told that Lcwd
Kemnare and his father will leet them at
Bale Coppice this day. Accordingly, Ethel
aDoviB herds to be bent and moored to
thor wishes and wHls without a murmur.
There is a good deal of the managing faculty
required in order to tranKHt the home
party to the trysting-place oomlbitafafy and
consistently. It is clear to the most; <nqae

secular mind that the gaiters and hat of a
bishop must not be shown to the eye of
dissent (which prevails in these parts) descending
Iron a little Norfolk cart. Therefore
sirs. Heatherley is compelled to accompany
the wearer of these honourable but oppressive
insignia in the landau with Lady St. Just,
instead of going, as her taste would dictate,
in the Norfolk cart drawn by the sporting-looking
Httle cob which is driven by Ethel.

And to make matters worse, it seems, fate
decrees that, for the greater convenience of
the greater number, Fanny Templeton shall
be Ethel companion. Fanny Templeton,
who will squeeze herself into every little
crevice of an opportunity which judicious
management may make for Kenmare to have
uninterrupted intercourse with Ethel. Mrs.
Heatherley's brow darkens and her eyes glare
at her future step-daughter, as Fanny takes
her place  and Fanny's intuition tells her the
reason why.

Your mamma is' afraid I shall be in your
way. dear." she says, at once, and Ethel,
taking her literally, replies 

Oh ! nonsense ; there's plenty of room -
room for one behind as far as that goes ; Mr.
Grove, why don't you come with us ? "
she cries out, as the chaplain is preparing
to step into the landau, and without hesitation
Mr. Grove turns and accepts the
invitation.

For a few minutes Fanny is silenced by this
move on the board, but as they dash out into
the lane which leads to Bale Coppice she
recovers her wonted equanimity, and power
of uttering that which is most likely to
discompose her audience.

"I am feeling quite anxious to see Lord
Monkstown, are not you, Ethel? They
say he's such a fascinating, courtly old gentleman,
and as handsome, even now, as Lord
Benares''

The cob bends his nose in half an inch
more, and steps out a thought quicker, thus
indicating that he has felt a sudden pressure
on his bit. This is the only sign given that
the name so lightly mentioned has gone home
to the heart of the hearer.

"Is Lord Monkstown one of the party?"

Ethel asks, holding her face well round for
Miss Templeton's inspection.

Why ; yes, of course, you know that both
he and Kenmare are here," Fanny rejoins, and
at the same moment the cob swerves sharply
round a corner close to the coppice.

BALE COPPICE.

[[jSpHE cob has distanced his more majestic
stable brethren in the landau,
and the consequence is, Ethel finds
herself dashing up to the group of six expectant,
hungry men, with the air of being
so eager to join them that she has outstripped
conventionality, and left her chaperone behind
her.

The clear, bright, dark face lights up
radiantly, and the soft, dark velvet eyes are
lustrous with a variety of deeply-stirred
feelings, as, foremost among the group of
men, the girl recognises Lord Kenmare.
She cannot help feeling pleased at the warm
pleasure with which he comes to greet her.
She cannot help feeling flattered at the flattering
heart-and-lip-homage he renders her.
She cannot help being proud of the pride
he takes in showing all those who care to

see it, that his devotion to Ethel Heath erle
is unaltered.

He is by the side of the Norfolk cart the
moment; the cob stops, doffing his hat low
to the young lady, whose pretty blushes
might pass for the red flag of love in the
eyes of one less keen to detect the truth
than he is.

May I introduce my father to you ? " he
asks, and presently Ethel feels her hand taken
very kindly by a handsome old gentleman,
who is merely a splendidly-matured edition
of Kenmare.

This is the obstacle to my wishes with
regard to Caroline," Lord Monkstown thinks,
and he resolves to ignore Kenmare's infatuation
altogether, since the latter has never
confided the name of the object of it to the
paternal ear.

The boy wears his heart upon his sleeve,"
the father says to himself, as Ethel springs
out of the trap, and Kenmare at once endeavours
to draw her away from the others
to look at a view of Boyne Gate from the
other end of the coppice." But Lord Monks-town

does not think this angrily, by any
means. He is not displeased that his son's
first serious heart-affection should have been
given him by a girl who would so gracefully
wear the title and coronet of a marchioness
as Ethel. " It must never be with Kenmare,
but she amply justifies the boy's admiration
for her, and desire to have her," the old
nobleman  who prides himself upon estimating
women correctly, and specially plumes
himself on the aptitude of his power of discerning
whether or not they are fitted by
nature and habit to hold high places  thinks.

It must never be with Kenmare ; but

if he gets over it, or rather when he gets
over it"  Lord Monkstown checks even his
thoughts at this juncture, but they have
run away with him far enough for it to be
nearly a certainty that if Ethel is ambitious
only, her ambition may be gratified by
another than Kenmare !

That something of this is shadowed forth
in the long, admiring gaze which the old
gentleman sends after the supple, erect figure
which is stepping along so lightly in the

distance by the side of his son, may be
gathered from the fact that Fanny Templeton
feels impelled to say as soon as an introduction
enables her to address Lord Monkstown :

Have you never seen my pretty friend
before ? "

I have never had the pleasure of meeting
Miss Heatherley until to day," he replies.

Ah ! your son has the advantage of you
in that respect at least," Fanny says, putting
on a look of tender regard for the young girl,
whom she would willingly obliterate from the
face of the earth at the present moment, were
such a course feasible without unpleasant
results to herself. Then, as Lord Monkstown
acquiesces in her statement that his own son
has the advantage of him, Fanny goes on 

Lord Kenmare and Miss Heatherley are
quite old friends, and would have been something
more, I have heard, if it had not been
for the prior claims of Mr. Walter Gifford."

Indeed ! "  Lord Monkstown startled a
little, not as Fanny supposes by the suggestion
that his son has been in love with Ethel,
but by the idea of any other man being fortunate

enough to have a prior claim to her 
"indeed! and who is Mr. Walter GifFord?"

A surgeon in practice in Atherton Towers,
a good sort of young man, I believe, not that
I know anything of him, for, of course, he's
not in our set''

At the same time you are so intimate
with his fiancee. ""

Lord Monkstown put it in this way, hoping
that he may be told immediately that Ethel
is not a fiancee, but the feline Fanny has no
intention of putting the noble mover out
of pain or suspense quickly.

I am so intimate with his fiancee, because
her mother and the Bishop, my father, are
going to be foolish enough to marry one
another in their old age. Then she remembers
that Lord Monkstown must be the
Bishop's senior by many a long year, and
adds an amendment :

"Xot that my father's age is against the
wisdom of the intention, I don't think that
for a moment ; but Mrs. Heatherley is
certainly long past the age at which it might
have been easy to tear her from the habits

to which she is wedded, and mould her to
a new manner of life."

There is nothings that can be said against
Mrs. Heatherley's prudence ; she has shown it
in accepting the Bishop," the Marquis says,
smiling, and, as he speaks, the landau with its
highly esteemed cargo comes lumbering up
respectably, and kind little Fanny is unable
to put any more pins into the noble pincushion
for the time.

As soon as Mrs. Heatherley comes into
collision with Lord Monkstown, she understands
that she must renounce her intention
of creating a paternal regard for Ethel in his
heart. He is no " heavy father " to hold out
against the projected union of the young
people, for whom she is scheming, for a
time, and then to endow them with countless
thousands and his blessing. He is, on the
contrary, a fine, handsome, rather vain;
attractive, rather selfish man, who banishes
his age as much from his own mind, and
from the sight of other people, as possible.
A man in whom the pride of life is still
strong enough for it to be extremely pro-vol.

I. K

table that lie will prefer having a beautiful,
penniless young wife for himself, to permitting
his son to enjoy the luxury.

All this is so patent to Mrs. Heatherley,
that she, being in her own eyes a still young
and remarkably pretty woman, is almost disposed
to regret that the proclamation of her
victory over the Bishop has gone forth. Her
unfailing instinct for the fitness of things tells
her that she would have made a better marchioness
than she will a bishop-less. But as
this is not in the alterable order of things,
Mrs. Heatherley makes up her mind to
succumb to the inevitable, graciously and
gracefully.

She still has a trump card in her hand!
"Ethel is the most marriageable girl I ever
saw in my life, if she can only be induced to
marry," she tells herself; and then she looks
at the Marquis and makes plans !

Dear old man !  so distin2:uished-lookinii !
After all, there's nothing finer on the face of
the earth than a real Irish gentleman. And
the Marquis of Monkstown may safely chap
lege criticism. An old man's darling.

What better fortune for a fortuneless girl can
be desired? An old man's darling ! And that
old man a venerable Adonis and a marquis ! "

"My daughter is such a perfect child of
nature, that she forgets other people may-animadvert
upon her conduct ; she treats
Lord Kenmare with the simple familiarity
she would show towards a younger brother ;
forgetting that unkind eyes may see more
in her manner than she means, and unkind
tongues mention it."

Mrs. Heatherley says this in plaintively
apologetic accents to Lord Monkstown, in a
brief interval  during which she has him 'entirely
to herself  while the luncheon is being
spread. It is not through neglecting the
Bishop that this opportunity arises, but rather
that he is allowing himself to be absorbed by
a communication his daughter has just made
to him,

"Papa," Fanny says, as she sees Mrs.
Heatherley preparing to melt Lord Monks-town,
" I want to show you a fern that we
ought to have for our grates, it spreads so
beautifully." Then, while the Bishop is looked



ing in blind confidence for the fern, in the
direction his daughter indicates, she stabs him
ruthlessly :

Papa, do you know that woman is
hopelessly, irretrievably, scandalously in
debt ? "

I don't believe  I mean what woman are
you speaking about ? " he says, wincing pitifully
under the pain, but struggling still to
preserve an air of composure.

You know I can only mean Mrs. Feathered."


And you know Mrs. Heatherley is to be
my wife, Fanny ; I can't listen to gossip
about her, even from you."

But the gossip is true, papa ; I have
heard to-day, on excellent authority, that
Mrs. H. coverley is only marrying you
because she has wasted her daughter's substance
and her own ; she is nothing better
than an extravagant pauper."

It would be treason to myself were I to
listen to such an evil report," the Bishop
says, strengthening himself in his determination
to be staunch by the reflection that he

is too firmly in Mrs. Heatlierley's clutches
ever to hope to get out of them.

It is worse treason to yourself to turn
a deaf ear to what I tell you, papa," Fanny
persists, and to do her justice, she has good
grounds for what she says, and is not
actuated by an unkindly spirit towards Mrs.
Heatherley only. It is gall and wormwood
to her to think of the widow as the presiding
genius of the Palace, but there is
worse bitterness in the thought that the
widow will bring no grist to the mill.

At any rate, enquire into her affairs
before you take the fatal step, papa," she
urges, and the Bishop, who has a quiet
conviction that he is going to his doom in
making this marriage, promises her that he
will " be cautious."

"At the same time, understand that I
have every confidence  every confidence in
Mrs. Heatherley," he says, emphatically 
so emphatically, in fact, that he almost
believes himself. But his daughter knows
better, and in the unconvinced toss her
head gives there is another dagger-thrust.

Meanwhile Ethel and Lord Kenmare are
looking at the view on the sheltered side

o

of Bale Coppice.

Did you think I should be here to-day ? "
he asks, when they have rounded a corner
and found a bank thickly-cushioned with
moss, to sit down upon.

I didn't think about you before I
started."

But, after you had started, did I come
into your head at all ? Give me that much
pleasure at least  say you thought I should
be here, and still you came."

You were put into my head by Fanny
Temple ton ; she told me just as we drove
up to you, that ' of course I knew both your
father and you were here ! I didn't know,
but that was her way of putting it."

I hope you'll like my father."

I hope I shall," Ethel says, politely. It
does not seem a matter of vital consequence
whether she likes his father or not, but, ashe
wishes it, she does not feel disposed to
cavil at the expression of his desire.

"Yes," the young man goes on, I hope

with all my heart you'll like my father,
because if you do he'll soon think all the
world of you, and the other will be nowhere."


I don't want him to think all the world
of me'' Ethel says, anxiously ; " it would be
such a pity, such a waste you know, if he
did ! And who's the other one ? "

Oh ! I forgot you didn't know about
my cousin, Caroline Hatred' ; she's the
governor's craze ; she's an heiress, and she's
his niece, and she's destined by both her own
father and mine to be Lady Kenmare ; and,
look here, Ethel, whether you will in time,
or not, I don't mean to have it."

"To have what?"

"You know what  Caroline for my wife;
she's a good little thing, meek, and gentle,
and nice-looking ; but, after seeing you, and
seeing what I do in you, I cannot see anything
in her stronii enough to blot you
out."

I think most men fall in love two or
three times, in a fanciful way, before they
meet the women they marry,"

I think I've heard that remark made
before," he laughs. "Miss Heatherley, even
when you try to be tame and trite you're
more interesting than any other girL"

I have not been sufficiently interesting
to Mr. Gifford to keep him true to me,"
she says, sorrowfully. " Just think ; I'm
as fond of him as you are of anybody,
and I've had to give him up because he
has seen a girl he likes better than me."

I don't believe it."

"Do you mean you don't believe he's
tired of me ? " she asks, eagerly.

Yes, that's what I do mean ; I wish I
could run him down with all my heart ; I
wish I could dare to say that I think him
a hound. But I don't, you see ; if anyone
has told you that he's tired of you
and that he likes someone else better, that
someone must have lied, because he
couldn't, you know !  the thing isn't inman
' to do.' "

I think you're better than anyone else,
you're nobler ; you can't imagine low, false
things ; oh ! you are so true, and you are

?o generous ! " Ethel says, vigorously, and,
instantly, she wishes she had not said it,
for Lord Kenmare takes heart of grace
from her encouragement to say :

You never say a thing you don't mean,
I've found that out ' about you ; and so, as
you mean you think all these good things of
me  can't you, ccmt you love me, dear ? "

I wish I could  I am an unfortunate girl,
I think, Lord Kenmare," she says, with a
sweet seriousness that appeals to all that is
noblest in his noble nature. "' At least," she
adds, hurriedly, as if she fears she were doing
injustice to someone, ' I seem to be unfortunate
just now, but, perhaps, it's only seeming
; the two people I think most of in the
world  the two I love the best and want to
trust the most, 'seem' to be getting away
from me."

"And one of these is this Mr. Gifford?"
he asks, with kindly curiosity.

Yes, one of them is ' this Mr. Gifford,' as
you choose to call him," Ethel says, perking
her head up in proud deprecation of the
depreciation which is implied in that word

*' only ; " " and that he should fall off, or
seem weak and wanting, is a trouble heavy-enough
to embitter my life, for I thought
him higher than myself, you know, and  "

She pauses suddenly, and a light, as of a
new revelation, springs up into her face.

I forgot," she whispers, bending her
pretty head, with pretty modesty, " I forgot
! the one who has taken him from me
may be so much better than me, that it
was only right of him to go."

This is a view of the case whicli Kenmare
cannot combat. When Ethel is lowly, she is
a beloved but still an overwhelming burden.

"But it can never be made to look right
that mother should marry the Bishop," Ethel
goes on, looking him direct in the face, in a
way that makes him feel that it will be idle
on his part to utter a mere platitude. " It
will always look a strained and incongruous
arrangement  and it will be worse than it
looks. And I can't bear it, for I love my
mother."

She is a free agent," Lord Kenmare
remarks, suggestively. He is afraid to assert

anything, yet he wishes to show that he hasa
healthy yearning for information on all
points that concern Miss Heatherley.

Yes  mother's a free agent, as far as
being well-off and quite independent of everyone
goes ; but mother has a very gentle and
reliant nature  oh ! she's ever so much more
inclined to yield and to lean upon people
than I am."

"And the Bishop is a good, massive
leaning-post ! "

That's just it ; dear mother has lived her
graceful, unprotected life long enough for her
to have gained reliance on herself; but, somehow
or other, she hasn't got it ; she's afraid
of what people may say of her and of
me ! as if it mattered ! and she fancies when
she is the Bishop's wife that we shall both
be founded on a rock."

If I were you I wouldn't fret myself
about my mother's marriage. The Bishop's
worst fault, as far as I can see, is that he's
a deuced nuisance to talk to; and, if your
mother can stand that, you needn't worry
yourself about it, need you ? "

I often wonder what people go on talking
about all through the long years  forever
so long  for so long as they both do
live  as, when they're married, and all the
furniture is got, and they know who's going
to call and who isn't, there can't be much
more to say ; " and he replies, with the
decision that is an attribute of his age 

"They don't talk to each other, you know."

Do you mean that husbands and wives
don't talk to each other ? "

Not as a rule  but  you and your
husband will be an exception ; I could goon
talking with you for ever without feeling
tired, or thinking that a change would be
pleasant."

Ah ! but you're not my husband," she
says, lightly ; " and if you were we should
soon wear the topics we have in common,
threadbare ; now, with a man who had a profession,
it would be different. I should take
an interest in his cases, and speak about
them "

Is there any path in life that I can

tread that will awake interest enough in j-ou

to make me follow it," he interrupts, eagerly ;
I'll go in for politics with my whole heart
if you'll put a bit of heart into my doing
so''

If I weighed with you for a moment 
if you thought of me when you went into
the strife, your whole heart wouldn't be in
your work, therefore you'd do it badly."

May I not hope to touch a noble aim, and
then lay fondly at your feet the fulness of my
fame?" he asks, and then Ethel gives him
a sharp thrust with the sword of commonsense.


If your father knew the way in which
you are misusing your privileges, how angry
he would be with you and with me ; and
don't make him angry with me  I want him
to like me."

For my sake ? " he mutters.

No, not for your sake at all ; but because
he's a grander gentleman than I've ever seen
before, and so I should like him to like me,
and make much of me, for my own sake."

The girl is very much in earnest, and only
a little in jest, in saying this. Nevertheless,

it startles and almost hurts her when he
answers, gravely :

I hope and trust that it may be for your
'own sake,' for your sake will be mine."

Even as he says this, the old Marquis
rounds the corner of the coppice, escorted by
Mrs. Heatherley and Fanny Templeton. The
Bishop would not come " because the wasps
worry him," they explain ; and Lady St. Just
wishes the elaborately-prepared luncheon to
be eaten without further delay. But Ethel
cannot help feeling that neither the importunity
of the wasps assailing, as they do, the
current comfort of a Bishop, nor the urgency
of the case as regards the luncheon, would
have brought Lord Monkstown round the
coppice corner in search of her.

For whose sake, and in whose interest,
then has he come?"

Mrs. Heatherley nurtures a hope, and Ethel
strives to banish a thought, that both tend
to the same point.

He is more struck with my child than I
could have believed a man would be, accustomed
to the society of the most loveliest

women in London," Mrs. Heatlierley thinks,
exultantly, and at the same time Ethel, struck
by the expression of her mother's face, is
telling herself 

Mother is putting the father in the place
she wanted the son to fill the other day ! I
hope he won't make an old goose of himself
and meet her views, and make my hard lot
harder than it is already. Oh, Walter ! if
other men are ready to love me, why couldn't
you go on doing it?"

But while she is saying this to herself, she
is listening very attractively to the information
Lord Monkstown is giving her about Boyne
Gate. He is telling her how it came into the
family generations ago, when a Baron Monks-town
(this was before they were prompted
marquises) had fallen in love with a pretty
English oirl, who turned out the heiress of
Place," as the estate was called then, and
who returned her Irish lover's affection with
such romantic fervour, that she insisted on
chancing: the name of the estate of her
fathers to Boyne Gate.

This is the first time it has ever been lethe

goes on to explain; "hitherto it has always
been used as a dower-house ; but, as I am
unfortunate enough to have survived my wife,
I have let St. Just have it for two or three
shooting seasons."

It's the only place you have in England,
isn't it ? " Ethel asks, for the sake of saying
something. To her embarrassment, Lord
Monkstown has succeeded in lagging behind
the others, and courtesy has compelled her to
stay and listen to his explanation ; therefore
she seems to be lagging, too.

Yes ; the only place I have in England,
with the exception of a little house in Norfolk
Street, that is scarcely worth speaking of, as
it is only fit for bachelor's quarters."

Mother has a house in Norfolk Street,
too," Ethel says.

"Has she? Do you go to it for the season?
Perhaps I shall be fortunate enough to have
you for neighbours, if you go up for the
winter gaiety ! "What is your number ? "

Ethel tells him, and he exclaims  " Are
you sure? that is very strange, for it's my
number ! "

Yes, I am quite sure. We haven't been
up for three years, but I can't be stupid
enough to have forgotten the number."

"I bought it three years ago," he says,
quietly ; " perhaps your mamma may have
sold it to me."

Oh, no ! I'm sure she hasn't, because she
was speaking of her London house property
the other day to the Bishop," Ethel says, with
an air of conviction. Still, the subject seems
to dwell in her mind with undue weight ; for,
when they are all settled into place around
the luncheon-cloth, she says to Mrs. Heatherley,
who is opposite 

"Mother, isn't it odd? Lord Monkstown
has a house in Norfolk Street, and its number
is the same as ours ? "

In a moment each pair of eyes present are
bent questioningly on Mrs. Heatherley, into
whose pretty, fair face, a deeper tint comes
for a moment, but there is not a touch of
confusion in the way in which she answers
promptly :

It would ' be odd,' dear, if our house had
not a distinguishing letter added to the num-vol.

I. O

ber." Then with the easiest grace she turns
the conversation into another channel, along
which, with ready courtesy, Lord Monkstown
aids her to glide, and helpfully accompanies
her. But all the while he is thinking
That woman has parted with her property,
and has her own reasons for keeping quiet
about it."

The same thought enters into Miss Templeton's
mind, and the Bishop groans in spirit ashe
skies a furtive o-lance at her, and sees the
expression of malignant meekness which is
lighting up her face. " I shall hear of this
most unfortunate coincidence from Fanny,"
he says to himself, and mentally he resolves
to " keep Grove close to him all the day."

But his precaution, though he fully carries
it out, is of no avail. For the remainder of
the day he is protected from the assault of
daughterly-devotion, by his chaplain and the
home circle generally ; but as soon as he is
left alone on his defenceless pillow at night,
his loved, but dreaded Fanny, takes him
unawares, and reduces him to a state of
abject misery :

Papa," she whispers, creeping in with a
little lamp in her hand, and her dressing-gown
on, " I waited till I heard Perkins go
away to the servants' wing, and then, as 1
couldn't sleep, I crept down. Did you hear
that at luncheon ? "

Did I hear what ? " he says, in a spirit of
feeble prevarication,

Why, about the house in Norfolk Street ?
Don't you think that if it had been hers still,
she would have said more than she did about
the coincidence of the numbers being the
same ? Of course she would ! Isn't she just
the person to have twisted it into a link
between herself and that old Marquis ! Oh !
papa, don't be weak ; do inquire into the
state of her affairs ! In justice to me, don't
hamper yourself with Mrs. Heatherley and
her daughter, till you find that they can pay
their own way."

The Bishop is frightened, undoubtedly
frightened, by this fierce appeal to his paternal
sense of justice, and his commonsense
and honourable spirit of detestation of monetary
entanglements. At the same time,

o2

frightened as he is about her, he is resolved
to be very loyal to the best-looking, and most
fascinating woman who has ever taken the
trouble to show herself at her best before,
and exercise her fascination to the utmost
upon him.

'' A pledge to marry is a very solemn thing,
and the consideration of mere dross must
not be permitted to interfere with its fulfilment,"
he says, with as reverential, and at the
same time august an air as he can manage,
prostrate beneath the bed-clothes, with something
suspiciously like a night-cap on.

But Fanny is inexorable. The attempt at
being reverential and august does not strike
awe into her heart for a moment :

Nonsense, papa," she says, with emphasis,
it may be ' mere dross,' but you know how
it upsets you to be short of it."

A PLOT.

jiALTEE Gifford has not confided

  the contents or nature of that

fatal little note of Ethel's . to a

single human being. It is always in his

pocket and his thoughts ; but he speaks

of it to no one.

Nevertheless his sister knows as well as he
does himself, that her shot has told, and that
he has received his dismissal from Ethel
Heatherley. And still, though she knows
this, she is not happy!

Honestly and truly the disingenuous and
cruel course she has taken, has been taken
solely in what she mistakenly believes to
be her brother's best interests. Therefore,
it is disappointing and disheartening to her
to see him glooming so terribly, now that
she has won freedom for him, instead of
making the highest use of that freedom,

and seeking the love which Lily Somerset
is willing to give him.

To do Lily Somerset justice, there has
never been a moment during which she has
displayed maidenly zeal to win him, since
that interview between them which has been
already recorded. On the contrary, she has
rather stood aloof from him, being very
kind and cordial when they are together,
but never taking the turning's in the direction
in which he may come, and never
asking him when " he will come again," as
the manner is of women, when the yearning
for the society of the beloved object has
overcome all reticence.

Now this, in Miss Gifford's simple
and unsuspicious eyes, looks too much
indifference for her to let it pass uncommented
upon long. Just as everything else
seems to be en train for success, it is a
little too trying to worthy Mabel that Lily
should suddenly become careless and dis-encouraging.


It seems to me that Walter may go or
come, or stay away, so far as you're concerned,"

she says, plucking up heart of
grace to speak her mind for the cause that
is so dear to her, even at the risk of
offending her resplendent young tyrant.

He certainly may go and come as he
likes, without let or hindrance from me,"
Lily laughs.

You don't tell me that you're tired of 
of thinking of him ? " Mabel asks, aghast.

' Well, not that, certainly ; but I am tired
of plodding on in my way, and of seeing him
plod on in his. I want to see some startling
change come to one of us. If I got suddenly
poor, and he got suddenly rich, your brother
would be so charged with pity and old associations
about unworthy me, that  I don't
know what might not happen ; now, I am not
likely to get suddenly poor, but I am considering
in my own mind how it would be
possible to put him in such a position, as
would compel him to put forth all his powers;
at present his practice is not engrossing
enough, or important enough. He moves
by inches ; he thinks he is working hard,
whereas he is nearly exhausting his energies

in rolling a heavy ball filled with littleness
up a steep hill."

As well as she can, Mabel follows the drift
of these remarks, and as clearly as she can,
extracts the meaning from them. Still, being
human, she is liable to error, and she errs
now in the deduction she draws.

"You mean that poor Walter ought to
work harder, and make more money than he
does "  she is beginning, when Lily interrupts
her, sharply 

I mean nothing of the kind. I mean
that working chiefly as he does among a
class who are not deemed of sufficient importance
by their generous-minded fellow-creatures
to have their well or ill-doing
chronicled, and published, and wondered
about  is like burrowing in the earth. I
want him to come out into open places, and
exercise his noble art upon those who are
able to make him celebrated ! I would not
wish him to be anything more than he is
a good man, working well by stealth.
But, for his own sake, for the sake of the
restoration to health of his broken, weakened

ambition, I would wish to see him a great
man, Mab, and, if I tell you how he can
become one, will you keep the secret ? "

Of course Mabel promises, but she does
it with a misgiving heart. It may be in
irresistible Lily's mind to carry Walter off
to. the altar, and marry him by force, the
alarmed sister fears, and, if so !  how about
the penalties which will befall those who
are accessory to the deed ?

Still the force of habit is upon her, and
she promises !  hoping for the best.

Then for the first time in their intercourse,
she sees Lily timid, and uncertain of herself.

My plan is this  if you think it wise  "

Mabel starts so violently at this unwonted
recognition of, and appeal to her wisdom,
that Lily pauses to say, with a brief relapse
into imperiousness  "Don't jump, and be
absurd. If you think it wise, an opportunity
offers itself, which, if taken, will put
your brother in such a position that he will
be compelled to be famous, and forced to
blot out all the undermining memories and
disappointments he nourishes and broods

upon now. If you think it wise  that
is, if you'll only say you're glad about
it  I don't want any opinion from you,
you know, Mab  Walter will have Dr.
Laughton's practice, and with it he will
take the onus upon himself of maintaining
Dr. Laughton's magnificent reputation, and
of justifying Dr. Laughton's acceptance of
him as a successor."

But, Lily, what can make Dr. Laughton
give it up to Walter?" Mabel gasps,
for Dr. Laughton is a prince among practitioners,
the nodding of whose head,
and the uplifting of whose eyebrows, puts
fifty guineas in his own purse.

Money, you goose, money ! " Lily says,
with a great assumption of superior worldly-wisdom,
"and that's just the part of it that
you are to keep quite secret ; the money
has been found, and the matter has been
arranged ; and now all that remains to
be done is for Dr. Laughton to introduce
Walter to his most important patients."

Walter will never agree to it," Mabel
cries, startled out of her customary awe

of, and implicit, unquestioning obedience
to aught that Lily decrees. " Walter will
feel that he hasn't worked his way to it,
and that it's your money has bought it,
and, feeling that !  no Lily ! I couldn't wish
my brother to have so little spirit as to take
it, grand as it would be."

Lily tries to fly into a passion, and fails
in doing so for once in her life. Li place
of passion, scalding tears, the offspring of
based, really good feeling, run down
unbecomingly.

"How can you tell, how can you be so
silly as to think, or to say that it is my
money that has done it? How do yon
know that Walter hasn't other friends as
willing to spend money upon him as I amor,
rather, as I would be if he needed it?
Besides, how do you know that there's
any money passed in the business at all?
Dr. Laughton thinks an enormous deal of
Walter's abilities ; how can you say that, as
Dr. Laughton is an old man, he hasn't been
glad to give the good-will, or whatever they
call it, to a worthy young successor ? "

"I should like to think it," Mabel meditates
aloud ; then she reminds herself-and
Lily that 

You told me it was ' money ' made
Dr. Laughton give it up yourself, Lily,
and oh ! what shall I do when Walter taxes
me with having deceived him, and reproaches
me with not having thought of his dignity
a little more. He will think it shocking,
and quite a thing that it would be impossible
for a man of honour to do, to take
money for his own advantage from a
woman ; it would be different if you were
old and ugly, my dear, indeed, it would !
But, I could never look my brother in the
face again, if I pretended to think he
would take such a great benefit from you."

I can't be old and ugly all at once, can
I ? " Lily says, trying to speak in a petulant
way, that she has frequently found efficacious
in bringing Mabel into prompt acquiescence
with her view of things. But to-day the
petulance fails her! The "reality" of
something higher and better than gratified
ambition or rewarded love, is forced upon

her. Faint and uncertain as these outlines,
drawn by his faltering, frightened sister's
hand, are, Lily sees something of the grand
hasting, resting " nature which she
has been selfishly seeking to shackle with
her little chains of gold.

"I can't be old and ugly all at once,"
she repeats, sorrowfully ; " but it will wither
me if what I have done lowers him in his
own eyes  it can't in the eyes of anyone
else." Then, with a quick change to indignation,
at being misunderstood and trapped
into making disclosures, she adds :

"And, how can you dare to say that it
has been done in a way that could hurt
the feelings of the proudest and most sensitively
honourable man in the world ?  and,
even admitting that it has been done, who can
say  who can tell him  that / did it ? "

"Oh, Lily! your conscience accuses you,
and your face betrays you," Mabel says,
pushing her victory over filthy lucre to the
utmost ; " it would have been too terrible if
my brother had fallen into such a trap for
want of a word in season from me."

The supreme moment is over ! and Lily is
disgusted at the aspect of the generous action
she has contemplated performing, when held
up in this cold, rather coarse light.

Don't waste any more seasonable words
on me, Mabel ; I know you're half right, and
I am more than half wrong ; still ! what I've
done, or wanted to do, won't be altogether
so bad as to make me take the whole of the
consequences to myself; get Dr. Laughton
to be off his bargain  if you can ; but, if
ever you wish to speak to me after to-day,
don't breathe a word of this to your brother
or, to me after now, when I close the
subject, and fan it away!"

The way in which Lily wafts a huge,
black, Spanish fan backwards and forwards,
in a royally-fatigued, languishing way, as she
says this, brings Mabel back into subjection,
promptly.

That you should be upset about either
Walter or me  not but that Walter's worth a
dozen of any other man / ever met With  "

"You've not met many"  this from the
fairy tyrant.

No, perhaps not, and the fewer the better
for me and all other women, I say ; but that's
neither here nor there, and what I want to
say shortly is  if you think of Walter rightly
you'll think that he is too high already in
the right way for either of us to help him
with mere money and good introductions ; a
peer's case will never be more to him than a
pauper's, my dear !  and, I do think, when
Dr. Laughton sees how really honest and
straightforward Walter is, that Dr. Laughton
will think twice."

I'll never take the curb off good
intentions again, without seeing what the
road is before me," Lily says to herself,
remorsefully. Then she looks at Mabel, and
half-laughingly quotes  " A Daniel come to
judgment ! Oh, wise young man ! Oh,
good young judge!"

I'm not a Daniel, neither am I wise or
good, but I know what's what, my dear,"
says Mabel, triumphantly, seeing she has
made an impression, and then Lily gets it
heavily for a few moments presently, in the
way of meek, soul-subduing, friendly castigation,

in a manner that is not to be contemplated
in the ordinary manner of things.

And Lily has to admit that " What's what "
in this delicate minor kej?", is a knowledge
that is withhold from her. So she has
to possess her soul in unwonted patience,
and wait for the outcome of the best resolution
she has ever formed.

Will Walter take it ? Will the man who
has fjiven himself ung-rudsfincfly to the most
irksome and unremunerative side of his professional
labours yield suddenly, and consent
to be well-placed without sufficient labour
on his own part? Will he honourably  but
tamely  take a place he has not won ? Will
he let a woman's hand carve his fortunes for
him while his own is strong ?

These questions can only be answered by
Walter GifFord hiniself. And Walter Gifford
does not have an opportunity of answering
them until he is tongue-tied by considerations
which are forced upon him by other
people.

For example, Dr. Laughton calls on him,
and tells him in suave, courtly phrase, that

he does not desire to see himself succeeded
by an abler man than Walter Gifford. Nor
does the great practitioner, whose fiat has
been fate in this neighbourhood for years,
give his decision with a sordid motive. It
matters little to him whether Walter Gifford
succeeds him or not. He retires !  that is
all ! His retirement is the event, and no one
knows better than himself that his successor
must rely upon himself solely, just as much
as though the " good will " of Dr. Laughton
had never been bought and paid for. But
Dr. Laughton is a mere man, and is afflicted
with a desire to stand well with pretty
women ; and Miss Somerset is the prettiest
and most charming woman Avhom it has ever
been in his power to serve ! If selling his
practice  which he wants to get rid of  Avill
please her ! well, he will sell it, and butter up
young Gifford into the bargain, for young
Gifford has it in him to make a bigger name
than himself. It is in vain that Walter
Gifford asks straightforward questions. Dr.
Laughton evades them with the easy grace
for which he is so justly celebrated, and

without uttering a word that can accurately
be called " untrue," he succeeds in giving
Mr. Gifford the impression that he has been
selected on his own merits to be the successor
of the mighty medicine-man.

From the day you came into the town I
have watched your career with the greatest
interest, and I give my unqualified approval
to the course pursued in every case that
has come under my notice," the courteous
physician says ; and when Walter remarks
that, to the best of his knowledge, not one
of his cases has come under the great man's
notice, he is made to feel that he has raised a
petty quibble, and that there is something
puerile in going thus into details.

You young men are very properly so
entirely absorbed in your own work, that
you have no perception of the cognizance
that is being taken of that work by older,
more experienced, and consequently less
absorbed men," Dr. Laughton explains,
quelling.

Still, I cannot comprehend the motive
which makes you select me, a stranger, when

there inst be so many men equally deserving
as myself, who have worked with you, and
been taught by you," Walter urges.

Put it down to an old man's caprice, if
you refuse to think it a matter of sound
judgment," Dr. Laughton says, for he is
resolved to be loyal to pretty Miss Somerset,
and to keep her secret to the end.

So the honour of succeeding Dr. Laughton
on his own merits is thrust upon Walter
almost against his will, and with reluctance
he consents to the next move, which it is
absolutely essential he should make, namely
to t)'() round under Dr. Lauo-hton's winof, and
be introduced to the more august patients.

He has few friends in Atherton Towers,
none of whom he can take counsel now
Ethel has cast him off, and he does shrink
from taking this final step, which will seal
the bond irrevocably, before he has expressed
his doubts, and perhaps had them
dispelled.

It will be more than useless to consult
Mabel, he feels. That affectionate sister, and
anything but profound woman, will see nos

2

thing out of the wav in the transaction, but
will probably regard it as merely a just and
natural tribute to the extraordinary merits of
her brother ! Still, though he feels that she
will be valueless as a counsellor, he must goto
her for sympathy in this dilemma in which
he finds himself placed. And, by going to
her for Sympathy, he knows that he will get
it from some one else from whom he can
scarcely ask for it direct.

Mabel is alone, rather to his disappointment,
when he goes into the old-fashioned
room at the Uplands, which is
gradually getting the impress of Lily Somerset
upon it. Out of the simplest materials
Lily has brought grace and beauty.

A long, fish hamper seems an unpromising
subject to deal with in the decorative
way, at the first blush, but, treated by
Lily, it seems as if no more fitting receptacle
for ferns and heaths could be found. He
recognises her hand, too, in the way in
which a common, round, deal table has had
its top covered with a cloth of velvety
green moss, upon which wild flowers are

studded artistically. The sight of these
things bring the thought of her so vividly
before him, that he exclaims at once, before
even he gives his sister the customary
salutation 

Where's Lily ? "

Oh ! Walter, she ran up to her room
the moment she saw you coming ;  don't
be angry with her, my dear, she did it
thoughtlessly, but she did it for the best,"
the poor lady blunders out, her mind
so charged with the one subject, that she
does not even notice her brother's look of
supreme bewilderment.

Angry with her !  did it for the best !
what in the world are you talking about,
Mab ? " he asks.

"Don't you know it yet?" she questions
in return.

KnoAv what !  pray don't be enigmatical,
Mab."

Why, know about Dr. Laughton's
practice ? "

I know that he has offered it to me 
what has that to do with Lily ? " Then

he pauses suddenly, as the whole truth
flashes upon him, and though his brow
burns, and his blood gallops through his
veins, there is no anger in his heart
against Lily.

AND ITS CONSEQUENCES !

lpRESENTLY, after a pause, the solemn
 stillness of which frightens Miss
Gifford into the vivid remembrances
of the sacred promise as to secresy, which she
has just well! nearly broken, Walter says:

Let me see Lily ; she can't be silly
enough to think that I can be annoyed
with her ! "

You'll take it, then ? Oh ! Walter, my
dear boy, I am so glad, though I never
thought for a moment that you'd condescend
so far as to take such a handsome
offer, I mean favour, from any
young lady  least of all from Lily Somerset,
because of what has been, you know,
and what you seem to have made up
your mind never shall be again ; and so
I told her when she consulted me  I
mean when she told me what she had

done, and desired me to hold my tongue
about it ; ' No, Lily,' I said, quite firmly, ' hard
as it is to gainsay any of your wishes,
my duty to my brother compels me to tell
you that this can not be ;' and now I
am so delighted to find that I was wrong,
and that you are going to make Lily happy
by letting her make you prosperous."

"My dear Mabel, you always think kindly
on every subject, and wish for everybody's
happiness," he says, gently, and his
sister is nearly melted to tears by this
recognition of her amiability, which, she
instinctively feels, is a little tedious in its
mode of expression at times.

And now, will you let me see Lily ? Ask
her to come and speak to me," he says,
taking advantage of the arrested flow of
sisterly eloquence.

For the first time in her life, Lily Somerset's
heart is beating rapidly from sheer
nervousness. For the first time in her life,
the spoilt child of fortune doubts the wisdom
of one of her own acts, and fears what
the consequences of it may be.

If he would only have accepted the
position without enquiry, and became famous
and rich, I could have borne that he should
never speak to me, or think of me again,"
the girl says to herself, as she stands
clasping her trembling hands, longing, yet
dreading, to be summoned to hear his fiat.

She has to lean against the dressing-table
in order to support herself, when Mabel
comes in, and she can hardly constrain her
trembling to say 

Well, Mabel ! do you bring me the
verdict? Does your brother think me an
impertinent fool, for I see in your face you
have told him."

'' No, my dear Lily, that he does not,
and that I did not ; that is, you can't call it
my telling him, when he jumped at it himself,
in a way that looked like divination ; and
you would have been the last in the world,
I'm sure, to wish me to perjure myself, and
say I knew nothing about it, when all the
time I knew everything; and he wants
to speak to you, and he's so grateful and
touched, that I believe things will end ina

different way to what I feared ; and  why,
Lily! what's this?"

"Only  only  " Lily tries vainly to stutter
out an explanation, through the convulsively-repressed
sobs, and the hot, rushing tears.

I am not like myself," she goes on,
struggling gallantly to regain composure.
I have made myself nervous staying up
here alone, picturing Mr. Gifford's contempt
for my impotent attempt to mould his career ;
and it has given me such a revulsion to
hear that he is going to be friendly and
kind."

Her words sound strangely in her own ears.
Can she be the same spoilt, capricious,
imperious Lily, whose own selfish will and
pleasure have been of paramount importance
to herself all her previous life. Can it be
possible that the mere thought of having
wounded or offended him can be cautioner
this exquisitely painful anxiety? She
feels that her limbs tremble under her, and
that her lips are quivering, as she goes
down the stairs and into the room where
he is waiting to judge and condemn her.

And something in the pleading, pale face,
that is bent so wistfully towards him, makes
him spring to meet her, in a sudden
access of such pitying regard that she maybe
forgiven for mistaking it for love.

Lily, your beautiful generosity, exercised
so delicately, too, as it has been, touches me
more than I can say," he says, warmly taking
her hand ; and she draws her perfectly-balanced
figure up proudly and happily, and
her forget-me-not eyes beam gratitude and
love upon him.

You forgive me for daring to do something
for you, and accept the poor service I
can render, Walter ? " she asked.

He shakes his head, and all her unselfish
hopes and aspirations for him fall down dead.

I am more than strongly tempted to go into
the groove, merely because you wish it and
would put me there," he says, kindly ; " but
look here, Lily, you'd be sorry yourself when
you thought of it coolly, if I deserted the
post I have gained for myself, and the people
to whom I am useful. A man fills the niche
into which he has fitted for himself, better

than he can ever fill one into which he is
pressed. The work I do in my own sphere is
the work that has come in my way to do; it is
ready to my hand ; perhaps  Who can tell 
it might get neglected, or even not done at
all  if I went away from it  "

There is sickness, and suffering, and need
of medical skill in the upper classes as well as
in the middle and lower," she says, briefly,
triumphing in the thought that she is using
an unassailable argument.

There is, Lily, and no man would more
gladly strive to relieve that sickness and
suffering than I would, if it came in my way
in the course of things, and if I hadn't to
neglect my plain and obvious duty in order
to do it ; but to gain, by purchase, a fresh
field of labour, when the one that has been
given to me needs all my care and skill,
would be to leave undone my God given work
for my own worldly gain. Your own good
heart will feel the truth of this, and teach
you to pardon what, at first sight, looks like
a churlish rejection of a sweet, gracious piece
of womanly-kindness."

And I was fool enough to fancy I could
raise a man like you," Lily says, with such
heart-felt admiration for what is best in him,
in her tone, and look, that Walter admits to
himself that his heart would go back to Lily,
if Ethel Heatherle} had never existed for
him ;  " forgive my presumption, and  ask
Dr. Laufjhton to find another successor."

"Do you mean?"  Walter is beginning,,
when she interrupts him hastily 

"Yes, yes, I mean that exactly; let the
arrangement stand, don't hurt me by having
anything returned ; you must know some
clever doctor, and good man, who has a large
family and no practice ; turn my feeble efforts
to good account, Walter ; give me the joy of
feeling that it has resulted in the welfare of
some one better, and nobler, and more deserving
than myself  will you ? "

That I will, right heartily," he cries, and
Lily tells herself, humbly, that she is scarcely
worthy to be associated with this loyal, unselfish
nature, even in good works.

That Miss Gifford's disappointment, when
she comes to hear the real state of the case,

is not bitter, it is impossible to deny. For a
few wild moments she has permitted herself
to nurse the delusive hope that her brother
would acquiescently slide into the position of
local medical potentate, and be the wealthy
and important person she always yearned to
see him become, at the cost of the sacrifice
of some of the loftiest conscientious scruples
entirely ! But still ! " if Walter could doit,
it would be right ! " as she tells herself.
And, now, to hear that all this anticipated
honour and glory, and gold galore, is to be
placed at the disposal of some unknown
person, of unacknowledged worth and poor
fortunes 

It is trying, my dear, very trying," Miss
Gifford says, mournfully, to Lily, and Lily's
face beams brightly, as she answers, cheerfully


"It is right."

A few days after this the Bishop returns to
the Palace and Mrs. Heatherley to the cottage.
The wedding day is fixed for an early
date, and an extraordinary report gains credence
in the neighbourhood, to the effect that

a marriage is arranged between the Marquis
of Monkstown and Miss Heatherley."

"My poor Ethel," Walter Gifford says to
himself, when he hears this, " my Ethel, still, I
know. Whose influence is it? No man but
myself has any over her  it must be her
mother ! "

AT LAMINGTON HALL.

UmINGTON Hall, the seat of Sir
John Hawtrey, Baronet, is one of
the show places of the county. Local
guide books go into ecstacies of enthusiasm
over it ; and after avowing that language cannot
adequately describe its charms, generally
wind up by declaring that it " almost rivals
far-famed Chatsworth."

This, however, may be ascribed to local
partiality, since those who know both places
will fail to discern the faintest resemblance
between them. Nevertheless, Lamington Hall
is a very spacious and a very fine mansion,
well anointed with that golden ointment
which puts all things in the fairest light,
and preserves all things in the most perfect
order.

Its terraces are exquisitely arranged ;
mosaics, formed of flowers and foliage,

master-pieces of carpet-gardening all the
season through. Estheticism finds no congenial
corner at Lamina-ton. Xo thine tall
and ungainly in the way of sun-flowers or
white lilies, or hollyhocks are permitted to
mar the effect of the flat, low growth of
symmetrically-arranged beds. Somewhere,
away at the rear of the house, sheltering
the wing of the palatial stables, there is a
well kept " wilderness," in which nothing
is allowed to run wild, and where every
leaf seems to know and keep its proper
place.

The interior arrangements are quite as
admirably devised, and as effectually carried
out as the outdoor ones. Old Wollaston's
money is put to a good purpose, in so far
as keeping " Heaven's first law "  " Order "
goes. Smoothly and noiselessly works all
the machinery of domestic management,
guided by the firm, strong hand, and the
great, good sense of the mistress of the
house, the baronet's only child, Caroline.

There is no doubt about Miss Hawtrey's
being a very wise dispensation. The great

heiress, who has fifty thousand a year in her
own right by her grandfather's will, is unswerving
in the vigour and the zeal with
which she seeks out lurking extravagancies
and puts them down. There are moments
when the housekeeper and the butler loathe
their master's daughter, for she is not above
chronicling the flow of the very smallest beer.
And even the hens at the home-farm seem to
have an uneasy sense of duty undone on their
parts in the matter of egg-laying, when her
penetrating, cool eyes look them over as she
passes through, on the occasions of her
weekly visit of inspection.

This excellent gift of cautious prudence, in
every case in which money is concerned, is
not an inheritance from her lowborn mother,
the daughter of the Manchester Croesus, but
is handed down to her in unimpaired integrity
by her well-descended, ostentatious, money-loving,
money-grudging father ; who contends
that he has not an atom of penuriousness in
his disposition because he cannot remember
the day on which he denied himself aught
which miofht tend to his own individual

comfort, or to the glorification of himself in
the e3'es of others.

And Caroline resembles him in most respects,
but not in the matter of ostentation.
She has not an atom of love of display in her
nature. She cannot alter the order of things
at Lamington because she is overruled by her
father, who will have it said that his vineries
and conservatories are the finest, and his
carriages and horses the best-appointed in
the county. But it pleases her better to
drive about in a little unpretentious pony-carriage,
than to sit in state in the huge family
coach, or lounge in the elegant landau.

Then again in the matter of dress her tastes
are plain almost to ugliness, her cousin. Lord
Kenmare, thinks, when day after day he sees
her come down to breakfast in a dull-hued,
bodily-made, gray dress, that gives her an
air of quakerish simplicity. She lias not a
girl's natural love for flowers or jewellery,
and never brightens herself up with a deftly-placed
rose, or gathers lace about her throat
gracefully, with a gold brooch. Magnificent
diamonds and other gems repose in her

q2

massive jewel boxes, but Caroline can rarely
be induced to deck herself in any of them.

They suit me no better than a peacock's
tail would a little Jenny Wren," she says,
when her father signifies his desire that she
should array herself sumptuously, and shine
forth in the borrowed light of gems; "beautiful
dress and brilliant jewels ought only to
be worn by beautiful and brilliant women 
they make me look smaller and more insignificant
than I am naturally."

Her humble opinion of her own personal
appearance is quite a genuine thing. In her
early childhood, when she was supposed to
be sleeping, an injudicious nurse remarked to
a nursery visitor that " Miss Caroline was an
ugly little thing sure enough, but that
wouldn't matter !  there would be plenty to
see beauty in her money." The remark sunk
into the childish heart, wounding it deeply at
the time, and leaving an impression that has
never been erased. Her money is the only
elinor that man or woman finds attractive
about lier, she believes. And so she goes on
her way, a self-contained, undemonstrative.

quiet little creature, whose one object in life
is to exercise a wise control over the riches
which have fallen to her share.

As may be imagined, there is little in common
between this quiet, prudent, thoughtful
little lady, and her bright, rather reckless,
Irish cousin. He finds her dull and uninteresting,
especially now that he knows
Ethel Heatherley, and she regards him as
one of the stars above her. But neither byword,
look, or sign will she let him discover
the secret of her heart.

Neither her father, nor her uncle, Lord
Monkstown, have said a word to her of
their wishes about Kenmare and herself.
But she has divined their wishes, and the
reason why Kenmare is made to stay at
Lamington, and the old, sore feeling comes
back to her heart as she sees that not even
the money which the old nurse prophesied
would make her beautiful, can win his
careless eyes to rest upon her for a moment,
approvingly. " He thinks ,me a dull, ]plain
little thing, and he's too honest to pretend
to think anvtliinir else, and I like him for

his honesty," she tells herself. But though
she approves of the honesty, her heart aches
for the cause of its being so displayed, and
she goes on her daily round of duty with
a feelings of bitterness that not all her sense
of justice and reasonableness can enable her
to cast out.

Instinctively she arrives at the truth, when,
after that shooting-luncheon at Bojaie Gate,
Lord Monkstown comes home, and makes
Ethel Heatherley his theme. As the father
expresses his admiration, her eyes are quick
to see the flush on Kenmare's brow, and she
discerns that the son is righteously indignant
at the possibility of having his father for a
rival.

Poor Kenmare ! " she thinks ; " if she only
had half my money, how happy you might
be ; how crossly things go in this world !
Poor Kenmare ! "

Little observant as Kenmare is of her, he
cannot but admit that his cousin does not lay
herself out to attract him, or seek in any way
to forward their fathers' plan. And so, after
a time, feeling that he is safe with her, he

gives her a little more of his time and attention,
and is rewarded by finding out that
the dull, uninteresting, unattractive little girl
whom he has been barely regarding as companionable,
even though he is argues in her
father's house, is well informed on many subjects
that have an interest for him, and can
talk about them sensibly.

One morning he stops her just as she is
about to step into her little pony-carriage,
and drive herself down to the home-farm to
receive the weekly amount of the dairy and
poultry-yard produce. The pleasure she feels
in the fact of his coming to her thus voluntarily,
hinds no expression in either face or
manner. Unconsciously she fears that any
exhibition of liking on her part may check his
friendly feeling, and drive him from her, and
she is beginning to dearly love the intercourse
with him, prosaic and void of sentiment as
it is.

"Where are you going?" he asks, coming
up to her swiftly, " I want you for a few
minutes, to tell you something that has
disgusted me awfully ! "'

Can you wait till I come back from the
farm ? " she asks, indifFerently, though her
heart leaps with pleasure when he says 

Why can't I go to the farm with you ?
Yes ! let me come, and send your groom
away ; I can open the gates and hold the
pony while you're pottering about down
there."

You can come if you please ; and I shall
not want you, William," she says, placidly,
but if Kenmare had eyes for her, he would
see a colour on her face and a light in her
eyes that only the painter. Love, can put
into a woman's face.

You heard my father speak of those
people who have been staying at Boyne
Place?"

' Do you mean the Bishop and his daughter,
or the widow who is going to marry the
Bishop and her daughter?" she asks.

I mean the widow, Mrs. Heatherley and
Ethel  that's her daughter's name. Ethel
Heatherley is the only girl I've ever cared
for, and I love her more than a fellow . ever
loved a fjirl before, I believe, and I've told

her so, and she wouldn't have anything to
say to me, because she was engaged to a
man  a doctor at AUerton Towers. And,
now, this morning, my father shows me a
letter from her mother ' accepting the offer
of his lordship's hand for her daughter ! '
Carry, it's monstrous, when I love her so ;
my own father, too ! it's horrible."

"Did Lord Monkstown know of your 
your love for her ? "

I never told him it was Ethel ; but once,
when the question of my marrying somebody
else arose, I told him that I cared too much
for a girl already ever to think of marrying
another one ; but it's not that. Carry. I'm
not unreasonable enough to blame my father ;
he has a right to ask her to be his wife,
knowing nothing of my affair ; but how can
she have brought herself to accept him ? "

How, indeed ! " Caroline murmurs ; then
half-fearing that she may have partially betrayed
herself by those two words, lie goes
on, collectedly 

I understand it is her mother who has accepted
him for her daughter ; from the little

I have heard of Mrs. Heatherley I should
think she is a scheming, ambitious woman,
just the one to accept my uncle's offer, without
her daughter's knowledge, and then work
on the girl to redeem her mother's promise ;
don't condemn Miss Heatherley, till you know
more about it, Kenmare."

He looks at her more wistfully, and with
more interest than he has ever shown in her
before, and says :

'Pon my word, you're a kind little thing,
Carry ! I felt I must speak to someone about
it. When my father spoke to me just now,
and showed me Mrs. Heatherley 's letter, I felt
stunned, and it was all I could do to keep
myself from bursting out with the truth ; but
I reminded myself that it would be a frightful
thing, if this great calamity does come to
pass, for him to know that I had wanted her
myself; so I pulled myself together, and got
away as quickly as I could."

I am very, very sorry," she says, earnestly.


'' That's very good of you," he responds,
heartily ; " someway or other, I didn't expect

Zo

much sympathy from you. I thought you'd
regard anything of the nature of love as bosh
and nonsense, and only thmk me a fool for
being unable to get over my disappointment."

"Oh, no! I can quite understand a man
loving a beautiful girl, like Miss Heatherley ;
beauty is a great gift! the most precious
possession a woman can have, I think, for
it wins the only thing worth winning in life 
real love."

The girl speaks with an intensity and
fervour that astonishes her companion, and
covers herself with confusion, as soon as she
ceases speaking.

I shouldn't have thought you felt like
that," he says, Wonderingly. " You give me
the idea of being so very full of commonsense,
that I fancied you had never given a thought
to the trivial matter of love in your life."

"perhaps I haven't for myself; but I have
thought a great deal about it for other
people."

But you're wrong about the beauty, you
know; it isn't only beauty fellows care .for;
there is something else, and every bonum,

who's anything at all, has that something else,
I believe, for some fellow, if he only happens
to meet her."

She shakes her head solemnly.

Not every woman ; I haven't it," she says,
and she is innocent of all wish to extract a
compliment from him.

*you don't know that," he says, encouragingly,
but there is no strong air of
conviction about his manner of saying dt.

You don't know that ! it's only that you
haven't met the man with the right, clear
sight to see it: I daresay you have had any
number of professed worshippers after you,
now haven't you ? Girls with such fortunes
as yours always have."

She winces ; and the same look of mortified
pain which swept over her little face when
she heard her nurse's words long ago, sweeps
over it now. But she forces herself to say
quite calmly :

Yes, my money has had many worshippers
; there are many men who Mould cumber
themselves even with me, for the sake of my
fortune."

It is a difficult speech to answer. The
speaker's humble opinion of her own personnel
is so evidently unfeigned, that he, half-sharing
it as he does, does not think it worth
his while to deprecate or combat it. Accordingly,
he diverges abruptly from the subject
of her lack of charms, and returns to the
one that is absorbing all his thoughts.

"Though 1 can't have her myself, I
should never have been utterly wretched
if Ethel had stood to her guns, and married
her doctor ; but if this thing is true I shall
go away, and I shan't very much care where
I go, or Avhat becomes of me ; to think of
her as my father's wife ! To think of her
selling herself in such a way will be
maddening ! "

Hope still that it is merely her mother's
consent which has been given ; I don't
believe the girl lives who could take your
father after refusing you ; it would be impossible,
unnatural ! "

She speaks so fervently that he cannot
doubt any longer that she will prove a real
true friend to him. A friend to whom he

may with safety and assurance turn in an'
time of trouble or distress. A good, sensible
girl, who will give him a sister's quiet love,
listen patiently to the story of any difficulties
which may assail him, and, if needful,
give him advice and sympathy ! All this
her tone seems to promise him, and it never
occurs to him, that such a sensible, plain girl
as she is, can be actuated by any warmer
feeling than this " friendship," on which he
is so confidently relying.

It does me good to hear you speak m
that way, Caroline," he says, cheerily. His
sanguine spirit has revived under the influence
of her sympathetic words, and he almost
fancies that her instinct against the possibility
of Ethel committing the enormity of marrying
his father, must be a correct one, " I wish
I could get you to know Ethel ! You'd plead
my cause for me like a little brick, I know,"
he says, enthusiastically.

"No one can do that for you. This is the
dairy ; shall we stop here or drive up to the
house ? "

"Up to the house I think ; anything to

prolong the pleasure of driving with you,
Carry," he says, so up to the house they
go, and Mrs. Hocking, the farmer's wife,
stabs Caroline right through the heart, by
whispering, meaningly 

Pleased to see the gentleman, and more
than pleased, Miss Hawtrey! I've heard two
or three words, but didn't like to take any
notice, till I saw you driving up together,
so cosy and happy, just now ; I repose it
won't be long before we lose you now, Miss ? "

These words are half-whispered, but still
they are designed for the gentleman's ears as
Avell ; and feeling sure that he hears everyone
of them, Caroline is too proud to attempt
to arrest the torrent of j\[rs. Hocking's eloquence.


"This gentleman, is only my cousin. Lord
Kenmare, Mrs. Hocking ; you are quite mistaken
in supposing that he will ever be
anything else to me," she says, with cold
dignity, and Kenmare thinks " she really
needn't be quite so serious about such an
utterly absurd mistake."

The rest of the visit to the farm is very

pleasant  to Kenmare. Now that he has
broken the ice, and discoursed of his love to
Caroline, his spirits have risen considerably,
and he is quite happy and at ease. It amuses
him to see her gravely going through the
business of auditing the accounts which are
submitted to her, and it interests him to see
her eight perfectly-matched Jersey cows, and
her various runs of rare poultry.

Cut out for an old maid," he says to himself,
as he marks the orderly way in which
she has everything kept, and the thorough
precision with which she contrives to have all
her directions carried out. " Cut out for an
old maid ! but a dear, sensible little piece of
ice for a friend for all that ; how she would
laugh at the governor's suggestion, that I
should make up to her. Awful joke it would
be to tell her."

END OF VOL. I.

OF Thou

N 1 VLR5 City

Of 1 Ll Noise



C89a

v. 2

3 loocl.

By ANNIE THOMAS

(Mrs. Pender Clip),
author ok "denis donne," "played out," "eyre of london," etc.

ly THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :

Tinsel Brothers, 8, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.

1882.

[All Rights Reserved

Contests

CHAP. I'AGK

I.  3Iks. Tk.mi'leto.n Legis to Build . . . . i

II.  Hek Lady.'siiii''.- Thu.mi' Cake 25

III.  Ktiiel'.s FoifLoax IIoi-k Fails IIek ! . 47

IV.  "Heart of Lead and Heart of Ieatiieu'' . 67

V.  By the 1\u.sman violets 84

VI. I 3Ii-.>;t Have Time 102

VII.- The Mahwlis of Mo.nk.stowx Asserts Himself . 121

VIII.  Di.->ai'I'oi.ntme.nt . 141

IX.- Ethel Rivals 159

X. .So Hai'I'v ? 181

XL "Si.ME Last W'k. Met, I " 205

CHAPTEE I.

MKS. TEMPLETON BEGINS TO BUILD.

mT is riot an encouraging morning. A
cold, raw fog is hanging over AUerton
Towers. The atmosphere is so heavy
that the cathedral and church bells, Which
have been ringing at intervals since early
morn, sound muffled and mournful, and anything
but jocund as they are intended to be.
It is one of those depressing days on which
water seems to be wetter than usual, and beds
of late-flowering German-asters, and chrysanthemums,
which have been masses of
bright bloom but a few hours previously,
assume the appearance of unkempt collections
of dank vegetation. Unquestionably, it is
not an encouraging morning, and the poor

VOL. II. B

Bishop has never stood in such sore need of
encouragement before in his life.

For the happy day which is to see Mrs.
Heatherley transformed into Mrs. Templeton,
has dawned at last, and the Bishop:) is a prey
to the uncomfortable sensations which are apt
to assail a person who is going to take a leap
in the dark.

Never before has his coffee tasted so bitter,
or his toast so chokingly dry, as on his marriage
morn. With all his power of wishing,
he wishes now that he had insisted on
taking Mrs. Heatherley for better and worse
in the total obscurity of one of the East-end
of London churches. But it is too late now
to change the programme, and he knows that
he must go to his doom in this own cathedral,
with the disapproving eyes of all the clergy
in the diocese bent upon him.

The poor Bishop! He is weak  very
weak, but not at all wicked ; and the only
feeling that ought to be evoked by the
spectacle he oilers of himself this morning, is
one of profound pity. He is ready, dressed

beautifully and elaborately, as usual, but today
it seems as if his legs were shrinking
away from this stockings, and as if he Avere
growing altogether a smaller and slighter
Bishop than he has been heretofore.

There has been little or no peace in the
Palace since early dawn this day. In the
first place, Miss Templeton, who has been
antagonistic to her father's matrimonial
scheme all along, has now put this crowning
affront upon him of refusing to go to the
cathedral and witness his nuptials ; not only
this, but she has dealt him a cruel blow in
these last helpless moments. She has read
to him portions of a letter which she has
received this morning, which gives pretty
confirmatory evidence as to Mrs. Heatherley's
extravagance and impecuniosity, her debts
and difficulties. That fair and lively lady
has, it appears, sold all the property Which
she can sell, and mortgaged the remainder,
and has managed to come to the end of
her resources simultaneously with her marriage
with the Bishop.

b2

I warned you, and you would not take
my warning, papa ; and now, unless you
rouse yourself and take proper action without
delay, you will be saddled with that
extravagant pauper and her daughter for
the rest of your life."

I should bring a bitter scandal on my
cloth and calling, if I allowed considerations
of a sordid nature to intervene between me
and the fulfilment of a solemn promise,"
the Bishop says, quailing under his daughter's
condemning glance, but striving valiantly
the while to deport himself as becomes a
man and a bishop.

"You will bring a more bitter scandal
upon your cloth and calling, if you let that
little fox into your home as its mistress ; do
rouse yourself, papa ; consult some of your
friends, if you won't be guided by me ; put
off the marriage to-day, and make inquiries
into her affairs ; insist upon her telling you
how she is really situated, and if she refuses
to do that, the way will be made easy for
you to break off your engagement."

Fanny, you talk my head oft' my shoulders
; the little strength I have must soon
give way, if I am agitated and shattered
in this way," the Bishop says, appealingly,
but he shows no sign of obeying her
mandate, and breaking off" his marriage
with the widow.

The hour is approaching rapidly, and still
Miss Templeton excludes familiar friends
from her father's library, while she alternately
exhorts and upbraids him. But it is beyond
her strength to make a bishop commit a
breach of promise of marriage. And soin
due time, with much fear and trembling,
and perhaps, as much to his own amazement
as to that of any of the shocked and scandalised
faithful, the Bishop of AUerton Towers
stands at the altar and takes a woman in
holy matrimony for the second time in his
life!

It is remarked by all the assembled
multitude, who can catch a glimpse of her
fair, rosily-tinted face, that the bride looks
as young as her daughter, robed in pearly-gray

satin, over which clouds of Honiton
lace billow. The bride looks as innocent
and interesting as if her head were not
aching with anxiety, and her heart with
dread.

Whereas Ethel seems to have lost the
conciseness and roundness of youth in the
course of the last few hours, and altogether
strikes Lily Somerset, who is one of the congregation
assembled to witness the event, as
being anything but the bright beauty she is
proclaimed to be by public opinion.

Indeed, the blow which the Bishop has
received this morning is as nothing compared
with the one that has fallen on Ethel's
head.

it has gone against the girl's delicate sense
of the fitness of things to hold much converse
with her mother on the subject of the latter's
marriage. But on the wedding morning Ethel
has crushed out this spirit of repugnance,
and, dismissing the maid, has insisted on being
alone with her mother, dressing the bride
with her own loving, dainty hands, and

talking as only a daughter can talk to a
kiw mother.

Suddenly, the slim, graceful little figure
m gray satin sinks in a heap on the floor at
Ethel's feet, and the sweet, tender tints of
the face that grows haggard in a moment
are washed off" by a flood of miserable
tears.

Oh, Ethel, my child ! forgive me ! forgive
me ! "

Mother ! mother ! you frighten me, my
darling," the girl cries, rapturously, lifting
the kneeling figure up in her strong young
arms.

L am very, very unhappy. I have been
very weak, and wickedly extravagant," the
bride moans. " All our money is gone,
dear. I am no business woman, and, of
course, people have robbed me and cheated
me ; I am only marrying to secure a home
for you, and now, when I hind it is too late,
I find it will be a wretched home for you
when my poverty becomes known. Oh !
Ethel, mv child ! it rests with you to lift

this load of woe from off my shoulders. It
rests with you to see me honoured, and
wealthy, and hapjy. It rests with you to
save my reason and my life, f()r I verily
believe that both will go if this pressure of
anxiety be not removed," she continues,
wildly.

Mother !  and I who'd do anything,
everything for you, can do nothing," Ethel
mutters, between her frightened sobs.

"Yes, you can, if you will, dearest," Mrs.
Heatherley cries, eagerly. " See, dear, I
would not tell you before, I  I thought you
shoidd hear of the great honour which a

o

most estimable man has done you on this
day, which is fraught with so much that is
deeply interesting to me. The Marquis of
Monkstown has asked me to entreat my
child to become his wife ! My Ethel, you
will not say ' no,' when I tell you that if
you will marry him he will settle such an
income on me as will jut me above suspicion
and reproach ; as will enable me to look
every one fairly in the face, knowing that I

owe no man aught, and that I have not
impoverished my child ! Ethel ! are yon
listening ? Do yon hear me ? "

Yes ! 1 hear yon," Ethel says, putting
her hand u]) to her bewildered head ; "but yon
can't mean it, mother? I can't understand
you ; I must be going mad, I think."

She pauses and shudders, for all the bells
in the town break out into peals that fall
horridly ujxjn lier ears. The signal has evidently
gone forth from the Palace that the
bridegroom is about to start to be made a
happy man.

"Do you hear them Do you hear them"'
Mrs. Ileatherley cries, lifting her hands up
imploringly. " Ethel I I have only a minute
or two left to decide upon a course. 1 dure
not marry the Bishop unless you will help me ;
your promise to do as I ask you will send me
out of the house a happy woman ; your
refusal to gi\-e it to me will compel me to
bring scandal and confusion on myself, by
even now, at the last moment, breaking off
my marriage ! "

Oh, mother ! do break it off," Ethel
pants ; but Mrs. Heather ley proceeds to
draw on her long, silver-gray gloves, and
says, in response 

That would be a too utterly ridiculous
course for a woman of my age, with a
grown-up daughter, to pursue. If yoa
are quite regardless of my happiness and
good name, 1 must take the greatest
care of both myself." Then side lapses
from dignified severity to tenderness, and
says, " Dearest child ! what am I saying ?
My fate is in your hands ; will you condemn
your mother to misery and disgrace,
Ethel?"

"Mother, darling! Walter will be a sou
to you if you let Jim," Ethel says, blushing
with pretty confidence in Walter's love and
honour, though she has not heard iron him
for so long; a time.

' 1 would rather starve than be dependent
on Mr. Griribrd," Mrs. Heatherley cries. Then
the bells canon a manner that indicates
that the lislio]) has reached the cathedral,

and the bride-elect puts the screw on lier
child for the last time.

1 will not live to face the scandal there
will be if I break-off my marriage-contract
now at the last moment ; and I will not
be married with this heavy burden upon
me. Ethel, you condemn me to death
and dishonour ; ma you be able to forgive
yourself; may you, at least, be happy, my
child."

Oh ! mother ! let it be as you will," poor
Ethel sobs. A horrible feeling of faintness is
creeping over the girl ; her heart throbs in a
way that threatens to choke her ; her brain
reels ; for a few moments she is scarcely conscious
of what she is saying, or of what she is
being admonished to do. She only knows
that it is in her power to make her mother
safe and happy, by assenting to something
that will be painful to herself only ! What
matter ! Better for her to suffer pain, misery,
anything, rather than her mother should be
humiliated ! Better that she should do  do
what ? Well ani/thiny her mother wishes her

to do ! So she gasps out " Mother, let it be
as you will," and before she has time to
realise that at last she, who loves him sois
false to Walter, her mother has written
and sent off a brief note to the Marquis of
Monkstown, telling him that Ethel accepts
the osier he has done her the honour to
make.

The girl feels as if she were in a dream
presently when she finds herself standing
near to her mother in the cathedral aisle.
The wedding-party is a small one, and is
not graced by the presence of the Bishop's
daughter, but the Bishops new wife cares
very little for that mark of disrespect from
Fanny.

Before I have been a week in the
Palace she shall be sorry that she has not
made me welcome to it," the bride tells
herself, presently, as she takes her husband's
trembling arm, and leads him triumphantly
down the length of the cathedral,
through the great assemblage which
has gathered itself together tt) witness her

crowning success. She feels almost royal
as she smiles and bows, and goes through
the recognised forms of acknowledgment
of the salutations and homage that is being-offered
to her. Lie looks what she is
a proud and happy, and thoroughly
well-satisfied woman ; for is she not a
bishop's wife, and is not her daughter to bea
marchioness ?

Xo thought of Ethel's bitter sacrifice, no
pity for Ethel's aching heart and broken
hopes, mars the pleasure and the pride of
the Avoman who feels that she is entering
upon the sovereignty of AUerton Towers
this day, and who is making up her mind
that woe shall betide all those socially Who
have ever failed to admit her supremacy in
the past.

The bridal-party go back to a beautifully-ordered
breakfast at the cottage, and immediately
after it, the Bishop (who is feeling
less and less every minute, and who will
rapidly dwindle into absolute nothingness
if he does not arrest the rapid decay of

his powers of self-assertion) and his bride
start for Jersey, and Ethel, as has been
previously arranged, prepares to go back
for a week or two with Lady St. Just.

Lord Monkstown will probably white
and tell you of it himself, as soon as he
knows he is justified in doing so, but I am
sure he will forgive me for being beforehand
with him in telling you of the great
joy and satisfaction I feel in his engagement
to Ethel," Mrs. Templeton says to
Lady St. Just, at the moment of leave-taking.


Indeed ! Then I've no satisfaction in
hearing it," Lady St. Just snaps. No wonder
your daughter looks like a feverish
ghost to-day, Mrs. Templeton ; it's a wicked
work, and I'm glad I've lead no hand in
it."

You will not advise Ethel against it ? "
Mrs. Templeton murmurs, in alarm ; " you
will do such harm if you do ; dear old
friend, you will ruin me if you influence
Ethel against the marriage ! "

"He shall not come to my house to
court a girl who might be his granddaughter,"
Lady St. Just says, angrily.
"Pah I the thought of it turns me sick I
With his son in love with her too ! Hom
have you bent the child to your wicked
will ? "

How can you speak to me so on my
wedding-day, knowing as you do how I
value your friendship and good opinion ? "
the bride says, plaintively " Is there a
mother in England who would not do as I
have done  urged Ethel to make a brilliant
marriage, and a good man happy ? "

And a better man miserable ; the son is
worth a thousand of the father. You don't
know what mischief may come of it ; a
great deal of Ethel's goodness must go
before she can marry Monkstown ; and
when a girl's goodness goes other things
follow ! "

At any rate, leave Ethel unblessed,"
Mrs. Templeton now whispers, earnestly ;
and then she takes her Bishop away to

sive him a fortnight's training before he
begins life under her auspices, at Atherton
Towers.

' I won't attempt to bias sou, because I
promised your mother I wouldn't ; but if
that man comes after you while you're in
my house, I'll show him the door myself!"
Lady St. Just says to Ethel, as they are
driving home.

Then I should like to stay with you for
ever"' Ethel says, heartily.

My dear child, if that's your feeling,
why have you been such a weak little fool
as to let your mother manage you into
making a promise?  not much harm done
though, after all. Lord Monkstown is a
gentleman, and when he knows your heart
is against the business, he'll release you
blamelessly, and give you up to his son."

I don't want to be given up to his son,"
Ethel mutters.

You're surely not hankering after that
doctor still ? " Lady St. Just asks.

I'm  thinking of him still ; I don't know

that I'm hankering after him, as you call it,
but I'm always thinking of him, and always
wishing to see him."

"I consider such an admission audacious
under the circumstances," Lady St. Just
says, irritably. With Kenmare in the field
it does seem too ignominiously-absurd an
infatuation on the part of her favourite,
Ethel, to prefer a poor country practitioner."

The circumstances are, that when I saw
him last I was engaged to be his wife, and I
have heard nothing from him since to lead me
to suppose that those circumstances are
altered," Ethel says, quietly ; but, for all
the quietness with which she speaks, there
is an expression of resolution and firmness
about her that makes Lady St. Just understand
that it must be a weighty motive
indeed which has made Ethel Heatherley
seem false, even for an hour, to such a love
as this.

"And that motive is connected in some way
with her mother ! What can that tricky little
dame have been risking that her daughter

should have to rescue her at such a price as
this ? " Lady St. Just thinks, reflectively, as
she leans back in the carriage, and watches
the shadows come and go on Ethel's bonnie
face. Presently Lady St. Just says, as if she
were opening up a new subject altogether tha!
had no connection whatever with the one they
had been discussing 

Have you ever been to see our tenants at
the Uplands, Ethel?"

"I have never even heard of them."

Oh ! I thought every one in Atherton
Towers knew the most picturesque farmhouse
on its borders ; it used to be one of
the chief residences of the St. Justss, but
since my husband's grandfather died none
of the family have lived there. I'll take
you over to see it one day Awhile you're
with me."

Thank you," Ethel says, carelessly.

We often go there for picnics in the summer,
when I have young people with me,"
Lady St. Just goes (m ; " if they are without
lodgers when we ir<>- w' lunch in an oak parlour

; at any rate, whether they have or not
they're always willing to show one's friends
over the house,"

They're not gentlemen-farmers, as they
take lodgers, I suppose ? " Ethel asks, with
profound indifference.

'' No ; homely, good sort of unpretentious
people, with an old-world air about them that
is quite refreshing in these pretentious
modern days," Lady St. Just tells her ; and
Ethel has no idea that she is being lured into
the path that will lead to a meeting with her
unknown rival, Lily Somerset.

As a rule, Lady St. Just has herself kept
tolerably well-informed as to most things
that go on in the houses of all such of
her husband's tenantry as are within her
reach.

The rumour of Miss Somerset's beauty, and
Miss Somerset's intimacy with Mr. Gilford as
well as with his sister, reached her long ago ;
but she has not been able to turn it to account
yet. Now, however, the time seems
ripe for using such knowledge as she has

c 2

gained, towards the practical and worldh-'vvise
end of creating such jealous disgust in Ethel's
mind as will serve to detach her from
her fidelity to her " poor, professional lover.'
"And he, being a man, will soon console
himself," the old lady thinks ; " or, if he does
not, that won't distress me, if Ethel will only
let herself love Kenmare."

Two days after this, Ethel receives the
first letter from Lord Monkstown, and the
terms of it seems to lind the chains her
mother has forged for her more closely
about her.

By consenting, as you have so sweetly
done, to be my wife," he writes, " you have
not only secured my happiness, but you have
brought peace and joy, to which she tells me
she has long been a stranger, to your mother's
heart. With Lady St. Just's permission. I
shall see you in the course of a few days, as
I intend to take up my abode for a time atone
of the hotels in Atherton Towers. Ken-mare
would send his best wishes, I am sure,
but he has just jogged off in the pony-trap.

with his cousin Caroline, in true Darby-andaman
style."

"It's not his fault," Ethel argues with herself,
as she feels her repugnance to the prospect
of receiving Lord Monkstown deepening
into loathing, " it's not his fault that I shudder
at the thought of him !  it's not his fault
that every atom of me tingles with love at the
thought of Walter ! Poor old man ! Mother
has deceived him, and deceived me, but she is
mother still, and I can't do an3''tliing that may
hurt her ; but when he comes I'll tell Lord
Monkstown all the truth ! And then I'll tell
him that if he still will have it so, mother's
peace and joys shall be secured  at the cost
of my own ; but Walter shall know it from
me.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Templeton has heard from
Lord Monkstown also, and his letter to lier
contains the fulfilment of that pledge which
has made her his warm ally with Ethel.
There Avill be no more depressing monetary
considerations to trouble the Bishop's wife,
now. All sordid terrors are dispersed by

lier future, noble son-inlaw's magnificence ;
and the successful little lady feels it to be
within her power now to bloom forth the
brightest, most brilliant matron in Atherton
Towers.

Before Ethel's marriage I shall refurnish
our reception rooms," she says to the Bishop.
And while we are about it we will have a
conservatory run up, to open from the end of
the drawing room."

I dislike having anything to do with
bricks and mortar, and I've always said that I
would never build on a property that is not
my own,"  the Bishop objects. But Mrs,
Templeton promptly puts some plans before
him, and finally makes him choose the one she
likes best.

When she has done this, she writes to Ethel
riveting lier daughter's chains still more
firmly :

"My own Darling  Would that I could
embrace you, my precious little deliverer. I
have to-day received the first half-yearly instalment
of my income, and have begun to

spend it with the happy feeling that I owe it
to my child ! A considerable portion of it
will go in fittingly decorating my new home
for my dear daughter's wedding, which the
Bishop and 1 intend to have celebrated in a
way that shall quite befit the high rank you
will attain. I am confident from several
hints the Bishop let fall  the poor, dear man
is like a sieve  that Miss Fanny did her mean
little all to make him believe that I was a
pauper, and to induce him to break off the
marriage. I shall remember these efforts of
her's when 1 return to AUerton Towers ! My
nature is too open for me to harbour such a
feeling as revenge ; but, for her qwu sake,
Fanny must be taught that she may not seek
to undermine the heart-happiness of others
out of mere idle spite''

"Mother makes me feel that it is my
duty to be false and wretched," is Ethel's
comment on this letter. " Will Walter
ever help me, I wonder?  or has he taken
me at my silly word? But till I've seen
him I'll not write either to mother or Lord

Monkstown ; what they do and say is beyond
my control, but I'll do nothing myself,
no th ing  no th hug . "

So Lord Monkstown has to console himself
for the unflattering, chilly silence, with
which his warmth is met by Ethel, by reading
reams of rapture which are written to him
by her mother.

HER ladyship's TRUMP CARD.

iHEOUGH the exercise of some subtlety,
Lady St. Just has made herself
sufficiently Avell-acquainted with
the routine of daily life as practised by the
lady-lodgers at the Uplands Farm, to feel
tolerably sure of finding them at home on
the morning Avhen she takes Ethel over to
have her heart made  what?

Glad, by a sight of the picturesque
beauty of the place, nominally, but sorrowfully
sad in reality, by hints of Walter
Gifford's inconstancy.

Her own maid has been the means of
gaining the requisite information for Lady
St. Just. Wickham is one of those " extremely
superior persons," who, by means
of the display of condescending interest in

the chairs of the uiidesiCTiiintr worm out
of these latter the dearest secrets of their
lives.

This specialty of Wickham's is of service
in this case. With the avowed object of
ascertaining the price of the excellent batter
and poultry at the farm, Wickham calls
on Mrs. Mellon, the mistress of it. The
price ascertained, Wickham proceeds to give
an order which is unusually large, even
for Lady St. Just. This order opens Mrs.
Mellon's heart Avide to the envoy, whom she
forthwith carries into her own cosy parlour,
and regales with cake that is black with
fruit, and spices, and richness, and wine
that is correspondingly fruity, and lie;ivy
with youth instead of age.

Under the influence of these creature-comforts,
Wickham, who has been carefully
instructed by her mistress, pretends to grow
confidential ; and, after extorting a promise
of strict secrecy from Mrs. Mellon, the
waiting-woman says 

" Well ! there's soon be something to

talk about in Puerto Towers that will
put a stop to the gossip about the Bishop's
marriage ; you shall have three guesses, and
I doubt your coming near the truth with
one of them."

Mrs. Meiion answers to the challenge
promptly, and hazards three guesses at
truth, each one of which is of a depreciatory
nature to some one of their mutual
acquaintances.

'' Xot near the right one, as I said ; but
you shall have one more, with the help i
a hint from me  it's a wedding ? "

Why ! don't tdl that it's the Bishop's
daughter at last ! "

No, indeed ; no such luck for her,"
Wickham says, scornfully. Ever since the
ingenuous woman has heard that Miss
lieatheriey is to be a marchioness, the
Bishop's daughter has sunk down to a level
of comparative obscurity in her estimation
while Ethel, on the contrary, has risen to
an altitude that seem a royal height to
Wickham.

Then I give it up  unless you mean
our young lady here and Mr. Gifford?" Mr?.
Mellon says.

Oh, that's settled, is it ? '' Wickham
says, carelessly. " Neo, they're not of account
enough to make a talk in society; the
marriage I mean is a very different thing ;
and everybody who's anybody will be interested
about it ; it's Miss Heatherley that's
to be married, and the gentleman she is
going to marry is a nobleman of great
wealth and great rank too  the Marquis of
Monkstown."

Now, in saying this, Wickham is exceeding
her instructions. It is no part of Lady
St. Just's plan that this ill-starred engagement
of EtheFs to the father should get noised
abroad. All her ladyship's efforts are made
in the son's interests. But Wickham is
proud of being able to impart such thrilling
information, and does it without heed to
the consequences.

What ! not the Miss Heatherley that
Mr. Gifford courted at one time?"

"I don't know anything about Mr.
Gifford," Wickham says, in the tones, as
nearly as she can copy them, in which she
has heard her mistress let down an ignored
acquaintance. " The young lady I mean is
a great pet of her ladyship's  the Bishop's
step-daughter. I shouldn't think lie could
ever have thought of Mr. Gifford."

But I did hear something like it,"
Mrs. Mellon says, undauntedly, feeling it
hard that her information should be so
slightingly treated  after the cake and
wine, too. " Folks were saying it was a
settled thing, and going to be a match,
why ! only just before Miss Gifford and
Miss Somerset came here to lodge ; then I
suppose lie liked Miss Somerset better,
for 1 heard no more talk of Miss Heatherley."


More Likely that Miss Heatherley gave
him up, than that he gave her up." Wick-ham
feels a strong personal interest in Miss
Heatherley's dignity, hoping that when the
latter becomes marchioness, she (Wickham)

may take service a step linger than she
is already, in the peerage.

' Well, I can't say, no more can you,
which gave the other up ; but I've my
own reasons for thinking 'twas broken off
by the Gifforcls ; Miss Gifford was just
like one mad when she found her brother
had ' entangled himself,' as she called it,
with Miss Heatherley, and she told me
with her own lips, that to see her brother
and Miss Somerset married was the dearest
wish of her heart,"

And little enough Miss Heatherley will
care whether that wish is gratified or not.
Lor ! Mrs. Mellon ! why, she'll be going to
Court, and visiting with the royal family, very
likely, besides the highest nobility ; she'll
give no thought to a country doctor, or who
he marries or don't marry."

I hope there is love as well as grandeur,"
Mrs. Mellon says, simply. At which remark,
Wickham, whose wide experience among the
upper ten has enlarged her mind considerably,
laughs pleasantly, and observes that " that

part of the matter needn't trouble anyone.


Naturally this conversation is repeated by
Mrs. Mellon to her lady-lodgers as so(>n asher
visitor goes. Edited by the worthy
woman who wishes to display loyalty and
partisanship towards Mr. Gifford, it conveys
to the minds of her hearers an impression of
frivolity, falseness, and heartlessness on the
part of Ethel, which sinks deeply into the
sister's heart, and makes her rejoice with
perfectly disinterested and well-meant joy,
that her brother has been saved from the
machinations of such an one as this. It
sinks deeply into Lily Somerset's heart, too,
but she does not verbally express what deductions
she draws from it. Nor can Miss Gifford
read in Lily's face whether she is glad or
sorry.

On the whole, Wickham feels that she has
every reason to be satisfied with the result of
her mission of investigation. She has found
out that the young doctor, of whom her ladyship
is wont to speak disparagingly in

moments of confidence with her Abigail, is
not only detrimental, but fickle ! Wickham,
according to her own showing, has had little
or no personal experience of the way in
which the tender passion is apt to make a
woman act under certain circumstances. But
she tells herself now, with some vehemence,
as she walks home after her chat with Mrs.
Mellon, that " if any fellow dared to make
love to her, and then pick up with any one
else, she would take the first lord that came
by and asked her."

And rightly Miss Heatherley will act in
letting such rubbish go, and making a lady of
herself," Wickham finally decides in her own
mind ; and then she is pricked in her
conscience by the reflection that she has gone
over the border in telling Mrs. Mellon about
the engagement of the Marquis of Monks-town
and Miss Heatherley.

But getting it mentioned, settles it ! " the
astute Wi(khani says to herself, in the same
spirit which induces those concerned, very
often to jHiblish an engagement in the fashionable

papers before the offer lias been made.
Getting it mentioned, settles it ; and a bird
in the hand is worth two in the bush, say I.
Her ladyship has set her mind on Lord
Kemnare for Miss Ethel, but, Lor ! if Miss
Ethel's wise she'll make herself happy
with the old man, and be a marchioness
at once."

Nevertheless, Avise as Wickham feels herself
to be in lier generation, in thus having
made a 'settling" mention of the projected
match, she abstains from alluding to the fact
of having done so, in the course of the
narrative which she presently unfolds to her
mistress.

Wickham's report of her mission is sufficiently
encouraging to confirm Lady St. Justin
her intention of taking Ethel to The
Uplands to be cured of her infatuation for the
country-doctor, by the sight of the country-doctor's
present enslaver. Accordingly, the
day after Wickham's visit, Mrs Mellon is
shaken to the centre of her being, by the
sight of her ladyship's own landau drawing

VOL. II. D

up at the Uplands entrance. For though
visits from her ladyship are not of rare occurrence,
they always seemed to take Mrs.
Mellon unawares, robbing her of her composure
and her breath, and bringing vividly before
her mental vision, in a flash that makes
her feel as if she were struck by lightning,
all the weak places in the arrangements and
management of the farm of which she is
the mistress.

But to-day reassuring smiles play upon
Lady St. Just's face, and Mrs. Mellon has only
time to remember that one of the panes in
the dairy window is broken, and the oak
parlour (which her ladyship always wants to
have shown to her friends) is redolent of the
fumes of some black polishing-varnish. with
which Miss Somerset has been converting
plain deal chairs into ebony, before the keynote
of perfect harmony is struck in the
following words :

Your place is in its usual perfect order,
I see that at a glance, Mrs. Mellon. Miss
Heatherley  this young lady with me  is

something of an artist, and I have got her to
promise to make me a sketch of your oak-panelled
parlour. Would it be inconvenient
for you to let her see it to-day ? "

Again the sensation of being struck by
lightning, which irradiates everything that
had better for the time be kept in darkness,
assails Mrs. Mellon. How shall she dare to
take her ladyship ito a room that smells
strongly of agonising-varnish, and that is
being turned upside-down by a young lady
Who has marred her faultless beauty in Mrs.
Mellon's eyes for the time, through having
arrayed herself in a neat workmanlike suit
that " really might almost be worn by a boy."
How shall she dare to take Lady St. Just into
such a head-centre of confusion as this oak
parlour now represents ? On the other hand,
how shall she dare to refuse her (Lady St.
Just) admission? "And how will Miss
Somerset take it." This thought is the
sharpest dagger-thrust of all, for sweet Lily
Somerset has obtained unlimited sway over
Mrs. Mellon's unsophisticated mind, and the

D 2

o-ood woman is astonished herself that not one
of her kith and Ivan has the power to Avonnd
or heal her, that is vested in her Jovaly young
lady-lodger.

However, on this occasion, Mrs. Mellon
finds a way out of the maze of her incertitude,
made for her faltering feet by Miss
Somerset herself.

For Lily, having seen that Lady St. Just's
companion is none other than that other one
whom she (Lily) cannot oust from Walter's
heart, in spite of all the badly-authenticated
stories of fickleness and falseness with which
she has assiduously plied him, longs to meet
Ethel at close quarters,

You don't mean to tell me that you're
going to let Mrs. Mellon show Lady St. Just
and that girl into this room, for them to stare
round and behave as if we were part of the
furniture," Miss Gifford pouts, when Lily tells
her that she has given Mrs. Mellon permission
to show the oak parlour as usual.

They won't look upon me as ' mere
furniture,' " Lily laughs. " Don't be afraid,

Mabel.  If either Miss Heatherley or 1
are to be discomfited to-day, it won't be 
me!"

"You'll not let yourself down b}' seeming
to know anything about her, Lily?"

I am not going to tell you what I shall
do, or what I shall leave undone, for I don't
know myself, yet. I only know that Walter
has promised to come here this afternoon! I
only want to show him that I don't wish to
avert a meeting between him and his  real 
love!"

"Oh! Lily! Why do you call her that ? the
treacherous, false creature; marrying an old
man because he's a marquis, and has money,
after carrying on with Walter till the dear
boy was so won by her that it seems cruel to
be glad that she has deserted him ; and now
that everything seems so pleasant and right
between you and Walter; now that the real,
good love for you is reasserting itself so
sensibly, it's hard, it's more than hard, that
you should give a helping-hand to his
meetings with her again."

"May I venture to remind you that I
understand Walter better than you do," Lily
says, in reply to this. " When he knows that
she is engaged to another man, wild horses
won't get him to go near her with a word ora
look of love. Walter is a very honourable
man, and ni his honourableness he can be
very cruel. I mean him to be cruel to Miss
Heatherley if he meets her here to-day."

With this, Lily closes her lips and the
subject, and resumes her occupation of
agonising her chair, while Mabel Gifford
fidgets about the room, fretting her soul in
silence for a few minutes.

Presently she pauses in her purposeless
ramble; her ears are quick to catch the first
sound of the coming struggle.

I hear Walter's horse trotting round to
the stable ; he'll be here in a minute ; do let
me send word to Mrs. Mellon that we're
engaged, and can't have those ladies inhere?"


"I have said those ladies are to come," Lily
says, springing to her feet, with the light of

defiant excitement illuminating her face, and
the thrill of the same feeling imparting an
additional air of force and grace to her
figure.

Will you keep  won't you change that
dress?" Miss Gifford suggests, casting a
glance of timorous disapproval at the boy's
blouse, and the extremely short and tight
skirt, which leaves Lily's pretty feet and
ankles fully exposed.

No ! Why should I ? my dress suits my
work."

It may strike them as being rather
masculine," Mabel says, hesitatingly, then the
moment for either admonition or appeal is
past, for there comes a knock at the door,
and Mrs. Mellon's voice is heard requesting
permission for "the ladies" to enter.

"Come in," Lily says, in a voice that rings
like a silver bell, and Lady St. Just marches
in with so martial a mien, that Mabel involuntarily
shrinks into obscurity, in the shade
of the highest piece of furniture, while Lily
advances with a dazzling smile, that makes

Ethel think of the electric light, "or burning
day-lights"' and courteously offers the room for
their inspection.

It is in vain that Mabel offers up a piteous
prayer for her brother's prolonged absence.
Even now, while Lily is doing the honours of
the old oak parlour, pointing out the beauty
of the folded-linen-pattern carving on the
panels, and the perfectly proportioned grace
of arch over the fire-place, Walter walks
unconcernedly into the room, and stops as if
he had been shot.

Lady St. Just has been anticipating both
amusement and benefit from this meeting for
which she has schemed so artlessly. The
amusement is to be her portion, the benefit,
Ethel's eventually! But this!  this arrival of
Mr. Gifford's is altogether more than she
bargained for when negociations the affair with
Fate and Chance.

There is a moment's pause, during which
Ethel rapidly puts everything she has heard
respecting Walter and Walter's sister's friend
together. These ladies whom Lady St. Just

has entrapped her into intruding upon, are
that sister and her friend, of course ? And
oh ! not for half an instant does Ethel doubt
that the lovely star-like girl, with the clear,
silvery voice, to whom shy Ethel listened a
minute ago, with appreciative pleasure, is the
friend !

During that moment's pause, too, Mabel
totteringly emerges from the shadow of the old
buffet, and begins to try and tell her brother
that she " cannot help," something or other
which she does not clearly define, while Lily
leans her arms on the back of a high chair,
and gazes over it at the group, trying to still
the horrible thumping at her heart, with the
thought of what an effective picture she will
paint some da' of this scene, from her point
of view-the

momentary pause of pain, joy, fear,
doubt, utter perplexity on the part of Walter
Gifford comes to an end. With his customary
firm, decided step, his own old, honest,
honesty-compelling smile, he goes straight to
Ethel and takes her hand, and says 

Ethel ! Are you as glad to see me as I
am to see you again ? "

I am as glad as I dare to be," Ethel says,
leaving her hand in his as she speaks, without
a thought of Lady St. Just's probable
wrath ; of lovely Lily ; or, indeed, of anyone
or anything save her odious bondage to the
Marquis of Monkstown, through her mother's
folly !

My dear Ethel," Lady St. Just puts in,
swooping upon the unhappy pair, who are
groping about in the dim light of mutual
misunderstanding, " will you have a little consideration
for me in my position of outsider,
and introduce me to this gentleman whom
you seem to know so well ? "

Mr. Gifford Lady St. Just," Ethel says,
hesitatingly, for she knows that the introduction
is merely one to an unpleasantness for
Walter.

This unexpected pleasure is, indeed,
great," the old lady says, in the slaves accents
she can command. " I have heard much
(and much that is favourable, allow me to

add) of Mr. Gifford ; to meet him now for
the first time in the presence of Miss Somerset,
is to me a double pleasure ; but we must
remember that Mr. Gilford's time is precious ;
and we must not interfere with his intended
disposal of it."

She looks round the circle with a general
smile, that seems to demand their approbation
of her sentiment, and of the keen
appreciation she has of the little difficulties
of the situation. What "a well-bred, kindhearted
old lady," Miss Gifford thinks her,
to be sure ; for all these delicately-garbed
allusions to an " understanding," at least,
between Walter and Lily, falls harmoniously
on his sister's ears. What a under-headed
old diplomat Lily thinks her, but she thinks
it tolerantly, for  indifferently as she is doing
it  Lady St. Just is playing Lily's game.
What " a malignant old witch," Walter thinks
her, for he knows that thouoii she is firing at
random, that her shot goes very near the
bull's eye, when she implies that he belongs
to Lily now.

As for Ethel, no thought of Lily disturbs
her mind! Her one feeling is that she only
is to blame for whatever may be that is
wrong. She has been impetuous ; she has
been silly in renouncing Walter ; and she has
been wicked in allowing herself to be engaged
to an old man for whom she has
neither love nor respect, now that he has
degraded himself by seeking to make such
an incongruous alliance. There is pleasure,
there is pathos, there is pleading, there is
pain in the face that is upturned to Walter's,
and all these feelings find expression in the
words 

Oh ! Walter, how I wish there was no
one to order us away' from each other ! "

At this, lissom Lily draws herself up to the
utmost of her fair stature, and smiles " like an
angel," Mabel Gifford thinks ; but Walter
knows that the smile is a challenge for him
to declare himself on Iter side ! Xow I 
without delay, if lie ever means to do so.

And he knows further that she is justified
in thus challenging him to be outspoken now.

though he has been justified to himself for
not having been so before. For since that
matter of her buying the practice, and then
forgiving him sweetly, as she did, for not
accepting the great gift her love and generosity
Avould have given him, Walter Gifford
has let himself lapse into the old habit of
liking Lily more than a little, and showing
that likings in a manner that a woman can
only construe in one way.

He owes it to Lily now to say something
that shall show Ethel Heatherley that her
claims are superseded !

For one miserable moment he hesitates,
then, as he is about to say something that
shall show Ethel that he loves her still,
though honour forces him to leave the decision
of his fate in Miss Somerset's hands.
Lady St. Just plays the strongest card in her
hand, obnoxious as the necessity for dohig
so is to her.

"I am afraid I must order you away now,
dear Ethel. Lord Monkstown is leaving a
very precious charge in my hands in the

person of you, his promised wife, and I must
show myself worthy of his confidence by
taking you home before it gets dark, and the
night-air dangerous ; as a medical man I am
sure Mr. Gifford will agree with me," her
ladyship says, with a snarling smile.

*fS a medical man, he may possibly

agree with her. As a mere man,
with a mere man's vital interests at
issue, he does nothing of the kind.

Ethel has instinctively moved away from
him while Lady St. Just has been uttering
her cutting reminder  moved away under
the influence of the cruel recollection that
she has, by her forced assent to her mother's
scheme, given Lord Monkstown the right
to order her goings, and hold other people
responsible to him about her. Under the
influence of this recollection, she draws
away from Walter, feeling that, however
temporary her seeming disloyalty to him
may be if fate and her mother and Lord
Monkstown are merciful, that the mere appearance

of it makes her unworthy of
Walter, robs her of the privilege of claiming
support and countenance from him now.

But Walter follows her ; forgetful for the
moment of all his own perplexities about
Lily, forgetful of everything but the rage
that influences his heart against any man
who dares to claim Ethel as his promised
wife away from him, Walter Gifford, follows
her, and asks her 

I have heard this before, and refused to
believe a word of it ; but now ! that it is said
before you, and you don't deny it ! what can
I think, what can I think ? "

You can't help thinking badly of me,"
Ethel is beginning, when the pain he feels
makes him discourteously impatient 

"Then it is true? God bless you, Ethel,
and God forgive those who have brought
it about. I can't. The end has come for
us, surely enough."

With this he turns away, and gets himself
out of the room, and Lily Somerset feels
half-repentantly, half-rejoicingly 

The end has come for them now ! Being
out the false, ring in the true. I'll be
stauncher to him than that brave-faced
brunette has been, after all ! "

He is gone ! " These words forced themselves
out of Ethel's mouth, in a tone of
surprised pain and disappointment. They
seem to plead for pity and sympathy from
those who have witnessed the way in which
she has been rebuffed and humiliated. Then
suddenly she knows, as well as if they told
her so in so many words, that not one of
them has pity or sympathy ; that they are
all glad that Walter has resigned her, and
that she is standing? alone in the world, as far
as her wishes are concerned. Her mother
is on the winning Monkstown side, and everyone
else seems to follow her mother's lead.

She is not disposed to oppose meekness to
their triumphant sense of her having been
Worsted, and she is too just in the midst of
her own agony to really blame or hate the
woman who is evidently waiting for the man,
and as evidently winning him, who has been

frittered away from lier by her own mother
and her own weak will. But though she can,
by an immense effort, compass generosity
enough for this, she cannot bear their pitilessness
and want of sympathy any longer.

Come, Lady St. Just," she says, inclining
her head in cold farewell to Mrs. Mellon's
two lady-lodgers. " You have done what
you came to do ; why should we intrude on
these ladies any longer ? "

I am afraid I must wait for my sketch till
another opportunity," Lady St. Just says, apologetically,
to Miss Somerset. " So much time
has been given to social amenities that the
interests of art have suffered ; perhaps you
will permit me to bring my friend. Miss Heath -
erle, on some other occasion to take a sketch
of this charming room ? "

Always delighted to see you and any of
your friends," Miss Somerset replies. These
two ladies are doing no violence to their
feelings in being gracious to one another ; the
detachment of Ethel Heatherley from Mr.
Gifford is an achievement on which they have

both expended their best efforts. What wonder,
now that it is completed, that they are
well satisfied, and gracious to one another.

But this very graciousness of Lily's is
an extra drop of bitterness in Ethel's cup.
How sure she must be of him to be easy
and good-humoured as she is," Ethel thinks,
as she hurries away out of the sound of anymore
delicately-tipped arrows. " I want no
second sight of the room ; it's photographed
in my memory too clearly for me to need to
see it again in order to be able to sketch
it.

She is seated in the carriage, and has time
to compose herself, outwardly at any rate,
before Lady St. Just comes up. For Lady St.
Just feels that, unless the girl has time given
her to remember her bounden duty and service
to the man to whom she has permitted
her mother to promise her in marriage, she
may break all bonds, defy Lady St. Just, and
declare recklessly for the old love again. Soin
order to give her this time for the composure
of her nerves, and the recovery of

LIBRARY

UMiVERSrTY OF ILUROi>

her sense of the fitness of things, Lady St.
Just loiters along slowly through the passages
and garden, affecting a great interest in all
things as she passes, and reducing Mrs.
Mellon to a state of nervous despondency,
by reason of the fear that good woman has
of any unsuspected (by her) short-comings
making themselves manifest to her ladyship's
eagle eye.

Tired of waiting for me, Ethel ? "' she
asks, cheerfully, as she seats herself by Ethel's
side, and the horses go off at a springy
trot,

Not at all," Ethel rejoins, coldly. The
girl has argued with herself, and convinced
herself that it was inevitable from the hast
that Walter should hear of Lord Monkstown,
and equally inevitable that on hearing of
Lord Monkstown, he (Walter) should renounce
her. But she is unable to forme
Lady St. Just for the ruthless manner in
which she made her mention of the matter.

What a contrast there is between the
weather we are having now and that we had

while we were touring about together ? "
her ladyship goes on, pleasantly.

There is a hideous contrast between then
and now," Ethel replies. Then she throws
off all sham composure, and says, excitedly
: 

How could you speak so cruelly to
Mr. Gifford of Lord Monkstown ? how could
you stab him so ? He has never injured
you, or tried to force himself upon you !
Why should you have been the one to hurt
him with the blunt truth about my weak
falseness ? "

"Because there was no one else to do it,
dear child, and it was quite time that
the blunt truth, as you call it, should be
told to him. I'm not a partisan of Lord
Monkstown's myself, as you know, but he
did as well as another to-day to warn off
trespassers. Besides, Ethel, your dignity
was at stake ; couldn't you see that your
friend, Mr. Gifford, was in an uncomfortable
dilemma? It was thoughtless and inconsiderate
of you to let that really sweet-looking

girl, Miss Somerset, see that you
thought yours the prior and stronger claim
to him,"

"If he could only have heard it in the
way I meant to tell him," poor Ethel goes on ;
"he knows how mother sways me, he
would have pitied me ; but now he can do
nothing but despise me and dislike me, and
however good Lord Monkstown may be
to me, I shall never be anything to Walter
again."

Never, you may rest assured of that,
and behave yourself accordingly, my dear,"
Lady St. Just says, philosophically ; " and
wounding as it may be to you to hear it,
I really believe that in a short time Mr.
Gifford will feel grateful to you for having
cut the knot of his difficulties; he will
find solace in a wealthy and very pretty
wife, and he Avill not have it on his conscience
that he has been obliged to jilt you
in order to get her.'

You'll never cure me by saying such
things, I know him better than you do, and

I know that though lie may be led todo
it, he'll never find solace in a marriage
with Miss Somerset  you may smile as incredulously
as you will, I know it."

1 care very little whether he does or not.
Really, Ethel, I hadn't a notion that your
pretty little head was so full of romantic,
exploded nonsense ; on the whole, I am not
sure that Lord MonkstoAvn isn't the right
man for you after all ; your keen sense of the
incongruous Avill make you root out all pernicious
sentimentalism Avhen you find yourself
the wife of a man of sixty."

When I do that my keen sense of the incongruous
will make me root out e\evj bit
of 2;ood feelings that's in me now." the o;irl
says, wearily, and a pang shoots through her
old friend's heart, as she remembers her own
words spoken to Ethel's mother  " A great
deal of her fondness must go before she
can marry Monkstown, and when a girl's
fondness jjoes other things follow."

There is no more said between them on
this subject now, nor f<)r many days to

come. Lady St. Just is only too glad tolet
sleeping dogs lie, and Ethel knows
that all her words to Lady St. Just are in
vain.

As will her words to her mother and
to Lord Monkstown be also," she begins to
fear ; and then she tries to picture what
the remainder of her life will be if !
great calamity does come to pass, and she
becomes a marchioness and an envied woman
in society.

Thoughts of Kenmare often darken and
distress her mind during these dismal days.
What sort of a home Avill his father's house
be for the son, if she is the father's wife
and the house's mistress ? She seems destined
to bring sorrow and destruction upon
those she loves and likes. After persistently
repulsing Kenmare as she had done,
on the grounds of her greater love for
another, what hard things will Kenmare not
be justified in thinking of her, if she casts
out that greater love and marries Kenmare's
father? The contemplation of this pari

of the picture of the future, is only one degree
less maddening than some of those
scenes from the past which are indelibly
imprinted on her mind. Wherever she looks,
backwards or forwards, the marks of fickleness,
falseness, and treachery to those she
loves, are upon her.

Lady St. Just's permission is never accorded
in any form of words, but Lord
Monkstown comes without it, in the course of
a few days, and seems quite as sanguine
of a good reception as if both Ethel and
her hostess had written letters of rejoicing at
the prospect of seeing him.

That Ethel shrinks from him, averts her
e3'es, and gives him her hand so coldly
that he checks himself in his first evident
intention of kissing her on the brow, does not
surprise, neither does it depress him. Her
silence has led him to suspect that the rapturous
delight at the engagement-expressed
in her mother's letter, is confined entirely to
her mother's bosom. But he can bear her indifference,
if Ethel will only keep her brightness

and beauty. So now, though she holds
him at arm's length, he preserves an air of
being well pleased with his reception.

"You know, of course, that the Bishop
and Mrs. Templeton are coming home in
two or three days, Ethel ; I shall then be a
guest at the Palace, and certain arrangements,
which are necessary, can be carried out with
more convenience and celerity," he tells lier,
and she knows that he means the arrangements
for their marriage.

Mother coming home already ? surely',
surely, not ! "

"Mrs. Templeton is acceding to my request
in thus amiably curtailing her wedding
tour*'

"Why?"

"Because I am anxious to commence my
own, and Mrs. Templeton is humane enough
not to put any obstacle in my way," he tells
her, lifting her hand to his lips as lie speaks,
with an air of by-gone gallantry that makes
her feel inclined to cast herself on her knees
before him, and implore him, by the remembrance

of this age and her youth, to pity her
and set her free.

But she checks the impulse to act thus.
An undefined dread of Lady St. Just's hearing
of it, and casting ridicule on her for
having done it, a shrinking from being called
emotional " and " sensational," as well as
sentimental " and " romantic," restrains the
girl from making her appeal from her heart,
on her knees, as her impulse would lead her
to do. Xo ! she will make it earnestly and
urgently, but it shall be from her head ! it
shall appeal to him as a man of the world
and a gentleman, and if it fails ! well, if it
fails ! time enough when it does to think of
what must follow,

Lord Monkstown," she begins, standing
very erect before him, in a way that unfortunately
displays the proportions of her
perfect figure to the best advantage before
his admiring and enamoured eyes. ' Lord
Monkstown, in what I am going to say, I
don't think you can detect a shadow of m-
Gratitude to you foi the honour you have

dune : I am thankful to you for the wish you
have to be good to my mother and to me ; I
know how generous you are disposed to
be to her ; I know how generous you have
been already, and (to my sorrow) knows how
great she thinks her need is of your generosity.
Knowing all this, I should be a greater
coward than I am, a worse girl than I am, if
I did not tell you all about myself that my
mother has left untold, and ask you to believe
that you and I shall both be happier if
you will give me back my promise to be your
wife, and be my friend only still."

In her grave earnestness she is fraught with
more womanly grace than he has ever remembered
in her in her most buoyant moments ;
and the keen perception he has of this is a
powerful adversary to her hope of winning
him to release her.

I think Mrs. Templeton has told me quite
as much as it is necessary a man should learn
from another, of his future wife, and I can
save you the trouble of dwelling at length on
unimportant circumstances, by telling you at

once that I am more than satisfied, and that I
would not desire to have anything altered,
either in you or in the conditions of your past
life."

She beo-ins to feel that he will be inflexible
in demanding from her the complete fulfilment
of the pledge her mother has given in
her name. She begins to feel that there is
no escape for her ! that she will be forced on
by an irresistible power to redeem it ! Still,
she will bare her wound before him, and if he
has the heart to lacerate it further, at least
he shall never have it to say that she has
deceived him.

In telling you of the circumstances and
conditions of my former life, has my mother
told you of my attachment and engagement
to Mr. Gilford ? "

She mentioned that a girlish infatuation
existed at one time, and gave me to understand
that it had been overcome."

Then, Lord Monkstown, my mother deceived
you," Ethel says, with fresh energy and
hope. And now lier eyes sparkle, and lier

cheeks tush, and her lips quiver sensitively,
and altogether, strong feeling adds so many
fresh charms to her beauty, that her chances
of getting an order of release from Lord
Monkstown are more feeble than ever.

' I will be no party to that deception," lie
goes on, vehemently; "the 'infatuation' as she
calls it, the real love as I know it to be, is as
strong as ever in my heart for Mr. Gifford.
When my mother got me to agree with 
with her wishes and yours, I did not feel
that what I said was final. I had a hope,
faint and vague, but still a hope, that
Mr. GifFord would stand by me and set me
free "

' I am to understand that hope exists no
longer? " he asks, with deferential sympathy.

That hope exists no longer ; he told me
that the ' end had come for us,' and quite gave
me up, when he heard from me of you ; but
understand this, Lord Monkstown, I love him
quite as much as ever, though he has given
me up."

She says her words so distinctly and impressively

that he cannot doubt for a moment
that she means them to the fullest extent of
their meaning, and he winces under the un-flattering
conviction. But his will is strong
have her for his own, and since this other
man has resigned her, and her mother's welfare
is involved in Ethel's becoming his wife,
he tries to make himself believe that it will
be more merciful to make her a successful and
secure woman against her will, than to let her
return to miserable maiden meditation and
freedom.

So he tells her that her generous confidence
and noble frankness have still further endeared
her to him. And then goes on to
explain to her, that experience goes to prove
that what people call indiscriminately,
"love" and "heart," are in reality not at all
essential elements in the married state.

Competence, confidence, and a cordial
recognition on either side of the right the
other has to so much liberty of action as is
compatible with the preservation of home-peace
and happiness ; these, I take it, are

the chief conditions to be fulfilled in the
matrimonial state ; and it is the desirability
of his seeking one who will be an efficient
aid to him in carrying out these conditions
that I am always anxious to impress upon
Kenmare," Lord Monkstown goes on, diverging
from the subject of his own marriage ina
way that makes Ethel feel, and that is
designed to make Ethel feel, that he regards
his own marriage as an unalterable and
securely-settled thing.

They are not enough," Ethel says.

Indeed ! then may I ask what more you
would have ? " he asks, suavely, and Ethel
says,

Love is enough ! nothing else."

Ah, I think I have seen that sentiment
elongated into a sonnet by one of our modern
bards of the sunflower and blue china cult,
and I really think it very creditable, shall
I say, that they who have so little else to live
upon as a rule, should try and convince
themselves that love is enough. Will you
like to read a portion of Mrs. Templeton's

last letter to me ? " he goes on ; " it really is
quite delightful to meet with such a bright,
contented, buoyant nature ; she is flinging
herself with the ardour of a girl into the
subject of the plans and pavement of the new
conservatory she intends building, and she

says, ' I hope Ethel's good sense ' No,

that's another passage. This is the one I
want you to hear, ' I hope my sweet Ethel's
good taste will employ itself in helping me to
select tiles that will be in perfect accord with
foliage, flowers, ferns, and any dresses that
may sweep over the floor ! "

Ethel laughs shortly, as Lord Monkstown
looks up at her with a vain attempt at
expressing in his face admiration of that
which he has been affecting to admire
in Mrs. Templeton, and sympathy with
her frivolous zeal about the unbuilt conservatory.


My ' good taste ' will refrain from employing
itself in helping my mother to spend that
money. Lord Monkstown. Can't you understand
why ? "

I shall never ask you to give me a reason
that you do not volunteer, for anything,"
he replies, gallantly, and Ethel feels that he
is impracticable, and that he will take,
having the power, and will keep while he
can.

e1i'2lI;?i

7K

FEATHER."

pHE Bishop and Mrs. Templeton are at
Wi home, after a brief honeymoon, and
the already well-informed Miss Templeton
is rapidly acquiring fresh and unpalatable
knowledge, under the auspices of
her charming, attractive little step-mother.

The first lesson she is taught is the hard
one of enforced humility. Before the return
of the happy pair, Fanny has injudiciously
communicated to many people her fixed resolve
to " assert her position in the Palace,
and maintain it, from the first hour of Mrs.
Templeton's return." But, in spite of her
good inclination to carry out this fixed resolve,
she finds herself compelled to abandon it,
at the easy, nonchalant suggestion of Mrs.
Templeton, within twenty-four hours of that
lady's ascending the throne.

F 2

.They are at breakfast the morning after the
return of the bride and bridegroom, when
the first struggle for supremacy takes place.
The Bishop, his daughter, and Ethel, have
been punctual to the hour named for that
meal, but Mrs. Templeton has kept them
waiting half-an-hour. Once Fanny makes a
feint of taking her accustomed seat behind
the coffee-pot and urn, but on her father's
remarking 

"Mrs. Templeton will expect to find her
place vacant when she comes down, Fanny,"
she as huffily vacated it, reminding him at
the same time that his medical men have
always averred that nothing is so injurious to
his constitution as to be up and about long
before he breaks his fast.

At least let me pour you out a cup of
coffee, papa? Mrs. Templeton can scarcely
wish you to parade authority at the cost of
your health, perhaps of your life," she says ;
and the Bishop negatives the proposition
touchily, and adds 

Mrs. Templeton has a great dislike to

seeing the breakfast table disarranged before
she comes down."

At this, Fanny rings the bell, and gives an
elaborate direction to the servant who answers
it, to the effect that he is to ask the housekeeper
to be good enough to send a cup of
tea and slice of toast up to her (Miss Templeton's)
room ; a proceeding which the Bishop
protests against faintly, but does not like to
actually forbid, fearing that his child may
turn and rend him with cutting accusations
of his having gone over to the other side,
leaving her forlorn and friendless.

But ere he can quite make up his mind
what it vdll be wisest, that is, safest, for him
to do, his indisputably better-half comes
into the room, bringing with her a certain
aroma of fresh air, that proves, though Mrs.
Templeton is late for breakfast, she has been
no sluggard this morning.

I met a cup of tea and some deliciously-crisp
toast on its way to your room, Fanny,"
she says, holding her prettily-tinted cheek towards
her step-daughter for the latter to kiss,

so I ordered them back here. I disapprove
exceedingly of bedroom breakfasts."

We had almost despaired of seeing you
this morning, my dear," the Bishop says,
deprecatingly, hoping to avert the rising
storm.

I am sure, papa, you will not sanction
Mrs. Templeton's interference with any orders
concerning myself only, which I may give in
the house of which I have been sole mistress
so long," Fanny says, bristling at the Bishop
in a way that makes the latter feel his age
and weakness poignantly. Why, oh ! why,
will these two women, his nearest and dearest,
wage war with one another about trifles light
as air, and devastate him in his own hitherto
peaceful Palace ? He tries to evade answering
his daughter, by putting on the appearance
of intense interest in the contents
of the covered, but still cooling, dishes on the
breakfast table. But his little ruse fails.

'Did you not hear what your daughter
said, dear ? " his Avise says to him, with
ominous suavity; "surely you will answer her

appeal, made, with the utmost good taste, in
my presence."

It was far better and braver that Fanny
should say what she did before you, than
behind your back, mother," Ethel puts in,
warmly, and Mrs. Templeton, remembering
all she owes to Ethel's passive submission to
her will, forbears on this occasion, and finds
her way out of the impending difficulty with
her customary tact :

Dearest child, you are always right," she
says, admiringly; "it was 'better and braver,'
as you so prettily and truthfully say, on
Fanny's part. I only felt hurt for the
moment that j'ou should have deemed me
capable of the injustice which you suggested
to the Bishop," she adds, turning to Fanny,
who,. sorely against her will, is compelled, by
the politeness of the explanation, to sit down
with the others to breakfast, as if nothing
had happened.

And now," Mrs. Templeton says, with the
gaiety of a girl who has committed a harmless
escapade, " I will tell you Why 1 was an

absentee this morning ; I have been for more
than an hour discussing plans with Bolt, and
really, without boasting, I may say we have
done wonders already, short as the time has
been. We have chalked out the site, selected
the tiles, and actually commenced operations ;
men are dioffrinsf out the trenches for the
walls, and Bolt has signed an agreement to
have it finished, glassed in, and ready for the
plants by this day three weeks ; haven't I
been energetic? "

You have indeed"' the Bishop says,
approvingly ; but her father's approbation
does not appease Fanny's utter antagonism
to her step-mother's high-spirited and expensive
hobby.

I'm afraid Bolt over-rates the revenues of
the bishopric of Atherton Towers, or he would
not have signed such a contract in f;iith, at
your request, Mrs. Templeton."

I think Bolt quite understands that the
revenue of the bishopric will not be drawn
upon for payment for my little piece of innocent
extravagance, Fanny; he is quite content

to take my promise to pay ; it will be quite a
miniature Crystal Palace  ninety feet long,
and sixty wide. Ethel, dear, I shall ask you
to send me over every Irish fern that grows,
and acres of shamrock  I mean to have a
large bed of the chosen leaf of bard and
chief ; and you shall get me a small arbutus
tree from Killarney, and a real little Irish oak
from Lord Monkstown's estate, for me to
plant on the first anniversary of your
wedding-day."

Ethel masters herself sufficiently to refrain
from shuddering at this allusion to her
obnoxious future, but Fanny Templeton sees
the indignant look of reproach which the
girl levels at her mother, and is not slow
in construing' it aright.

None but a mother could manage to
bring in an allusion to the happy day so
cleverly," Miss Templeton says, with a vicious
shake of her virgin head. " Ethel ! how you
miss your opportunities ! why don't you
render your arbutus and shamrock with
more graceful readiness ? "

I am sure of one thing, and that is, that
Lord Monkstown will not grudge them tome,"
Mrs. Templeton says, in that arch and
affectedly playful manner, that is so maddening
to a hearer whose soul is sick.

'" I am quite longing to see this enterprising
nobleman," Fanny says, as sweetly as if
she were unconscious of wounding, with
every word she speaks, the girl who has
never wronged or wounded her ; " does he
make love as ardently and agreeably as his
son did, Ethel? such gifts are frequently
hereditary, 1 believe."

Don't let us waste the whole morning
at the breakfast table," Mrs. Templeton says,
quickly, rising as she speaks; "come, my
dear, I want your opinion about my conservatory
; the plans are on the library-table, and
as I have already made my choice, you will
only have to admire, not to decide."

She puts her hand on the Bishop's arm,
and leads him from the room, to gaze with
amazed horror at the ]portentous proportions
of the models his wife has selected. He is

not in possession of any facts concerning his
wife's monetary affairs, and his soul grows
dark within him, as visions of getting into
debt, through her agency, to every tradesman
in his diocese, floats before this mind's
eye.

It will be the largest and handsomest
conservatory in Atherton Towers, Bolt tells
me," Mrs. Templeton says, triumphantly.

I fear it will cost a great deal ! " the
Bishop replies.

The cost is quite a secondary consideration,"
the lady says, carelessly ; and the
Bishop groans in spirit as she goes on to tell
him of a window she is going to have made
over the drawing-room fire-place, looking into
the conservatory.

That will involve altering the chimney,
and will really add alarmingly to the expense,"
he protests, looking and feeling aghast
at her recklessness.

But consider the exquisite effect, especially
at night ! " she say, gaily ; " why should
expense ' be made such a bug-bear ? When

the lamp is lighted in the conservatory at
night, and we are sitting cosily before the fire,
feasting our eyes on gorgeous tropical flowers
and foliage, seen through the window, you
will admit that so delightful and unusual an
effect is well worth the few hundreds it will
cost."

"Hundreds!" the Bishop) ejaculates. Withall
his heart now he wishes he had hearkened
to his daughter's counsel, and cut himself
adrift from his spendthrift widow before
she became his wife. It is too late to so
free himself now, but for his honour's sake
he will remonstrate with and check her in her
mad career of unwarrantable extravagance.
I cannot  positively I cannot, and will
not sanction jowl having a conservatory built
on such a scale, nor will I allow the alterations
you propose to be made. I shall tell
Bolt that he must take orders on the subject
from me only, and unless he gives me a
reasonable estimate I shall forbid the work
being begun."

But it u begun," she says, carelessly ;

there are several men hard at work already
digging out the foundations ; and as for your
telling Bolt that he is to take orders from
you only, it's too ridiculous a threat for me to
think of it for a moment, much less to be
deterred by it. Bolt will take orders from
the one to whom he will look for payment,
and, as I am that one, I must beg that you
don't interfere with my arrangements for improving
sour house and making it a fit place
for my daughter to come to when she is
Marchioness of Monkstown."

The Bishop is considerably cowed, not only
by the length of this address, but by the cool
indifference which marks the manner in which
it is delivered. Still, cowed though he is, the
importance of the subject under debate, and
his holy horror of owing any man aught, impels
him to make a further effort to stand
to his guns.

Excuse me," he says, gravely ; " I have
never asked for your confidence respecting
your money-matters. I have waited for you
to o-ive it to me."

I quite appreciate the delicacy of such
conduct, and trust that it may continue ;
curiosity, especially about money-matters, is
such an ignoble thing," she interrupts, in
her sweetest tones, but the honey is wasted
on the Bishop to-day.

I have waited for you to give it to me
unasked," he says, With ominous solemnity.
He has found this manner efficacious in the
taming of turbulent chaplains before now.
And little he rocks how absolutely it will be
thrown away upon the gentle partner of his
home and heart.

And I have not given it," she puts in.

Now I ask you, I entreat you, Mrs.
Templeton. I will not say I command "

Xo ! you had better not," her suave voice
says.

But I entreat you, for the sake of avoiding
undignified discussions and dissensions in
the future, to tell me frankly and fairly Avhat
your income is, and from where derived, in
order that I may be able to judge what expenditure
is justifiable on your part in this

establishment, and, what is imprudent, not to
say dishonest."

During the whole of this exordium, delivered
much after the manner of a Charge,
the lady against whom it is being fulminated,
plays, with idle grace, with a large ivory paperknife.
When the Bishop ceases speaking,
and sits in silent expectancy awaiting her explanation,
she throws the knife down with an
impatient gesture, and rises, the plan of the
contested conservatory in her hand.

I am sorry to have to alter the opinion I
had formed as to your tact and delicacy," she
says, gliding towards the door, and out of the
argument. "I am sorry to have to refuse a
request of yours, however bluntly and awkwardly
made; but do understand clearly,
please ! that I shall not render an account of
either the source from whence my income is
derived, or of the manner in which it is spent.
The information would not benefit you in anyway
; why should I give it you, therefore?
It is against my principles that a wife should
have no individuality, no separate status and

existence, and I slioiild have neither if I
delivered my money-matters up into your
hands."

Mrs. Templeton, I must insist upon having
some sort of statement of assurance from
you that you are able to meet the debts
which T fear you are only too ready to incur,"
the Bishop says, with a shaking voice. For
so good a man as he undoubtedly is, passion
has taken possession of him very completely.
A vague fear that his dignity and honour will
suffer at the hands of the calm and smiling,
but defiant lady, who has opposed and worsted
him in this their first trial of strength,
overpowers him, and makes him nervous and
unable to rise to those heights from whence he
can command the situation. He knows as
soon as the word " insist" has passed his lips,
that he has made a false step in using it. Its
awful to him that something very like a
quarrel should come off between his new wife
and himself, within the precincts of his Palace
the very day after returning home. It is awful
to him that he should be compelled to use

words of censure and reproof to one whom he
had hoped would adorn and dignify his high
position in the church and world. Above all
it is awful to him to feel that he has no more
power to regulate or control this gentle-voiced,
kittenish little woman, than he has to
regulate the wind or the waves ! She will
gang her own gait ! She will give freely
while she has the power ! Give orders,
money, patronage ! " Where will it end ? "
the Bishop asks, thinking of that conservatory,
and of that even more appalling window
over the fireplace. And he has said that he
insists " upon an explanation of the state of
her affairs from her ! Oh ! weak and vain is
such insistance he feels, as she turns round in
the doorway, making her exit after a fashion
she has approved in the daringly-graceful
Terry's, and says 

No ; don't say you insist, because you
have no means of making me comply. I shall
not give you a statement of my circumstances,
because I know them to be in such a perfectly
satisfactory state that I feel I can defray any

debts I may incur ; your daughter's dishonourable
doubts of me are affecting you, I
fear ; but I will let this unpleasantness pass
without reproach, if you on your side will
promise that for the future you will be more
reliant and reasonable ? "

"At this early stage of married life, it is
strange indeed that you should speak to mein
this way," the Bishop says, plaintively.

It is much better that I should speak and
settle these trifles once for all, at an early
stage, than leave it to lag on to a later period,
when custom may have made us callous to
each other's wishes," she says, brightly. Then,
with the view of ending a profitless discussion,
she vanishes from the room with a blithe nod
and smile, carrying her conservatory plans
with her.

For some reason or other the Bishop's mind
dwells greatly on Jezebel this day.

And all the time this " heart of feather "
is floating about in the midst of masons and
carpenters, Ethel, with a " heart of lead,"
is preparing for the advent amongst them,

in a recognised position, of her future
lord !

Will lie stand by quietly and see my own
Tother murdering me ? " the girl asks herself;
and then she tries blindly to conjecture what
the strong motive may be which makes her
mother sacrifice her child's body and soul for
lucre !

I can never carry out my part of the
bargain," she tells herself, and then like a
child she hopefully promises herself that
Lord Monkstown will release hero

2

BY THE RUSSIAN VIOLETS.

r)T is in all respects a dreadful day, that
 on which the Marquis of Monkstown
arrives at the Palace as a guest, and
Ethel Heatherley's recognized future husband.
The weather is bad in the first place ; therefore
the Bishop is unable to get out and
potter about," which is the phrase his new
wife uses to designate his hitherto revered
ramblings. The weather, too, is not only
antagonistic to the Bishop's " pottering," but
to the furtherance of the conservatory. Consequently,
both he and Mrs. Templeton are
out of gear, and disposed to see, perhaps, not
the worst, but certainly the untoward side of
things.

All the maid-servants attached to the
palatial staff are in sullen, silent rebellion.
Never in the history of man or at least in
their lives and within the limits of their

experiences  have they witnessed so much
dust and disorder as now reigns in the
drawing-room wing. Mrs. Templeton, beautifully
shod, and clad in a dust-cloak that
envelopes her figure more gracefully than the
same garment would another woman, tramps
in and out over bricks and mortar and broken
glass, without getting cut or scratch to her
feet, or flying atom in her eye. But the 
looks like a mason's yard, and the
drawing-room like a whited sepulchre, the
servants aver ; and, in truth, they like this
period of transition and preparation as little
as Miss Templeton does.

The Bishop, finding it all vanity and weariness,
and being, moreover, mightily oppressed
by the dread  which his wife's asseverations
to the contrary are powerless to disperse 
that eventually he will be called upon to
pay for it, sits in his library alone !

He can neither read nor write, nor meditate
on good and peaceful things, for the incessant
knocking and planing, and hammering, jars
upon his nerves, and threatens to break the

drum of this ears. He cannot take refuge in
his daughter's sitting-room, which is farther
removed from the hubbub, because that
unflinching young mentor rarely addresses
other words to him than of reproof and
exhortation. Reproof of a peculiarly biting
nature, because peculiarly well-merited, for
his weakness in the past regarding the
widow; exhortation on the subject of the
best means for him to employ in the subjugation
of his independent-spirited and extravagant
wife!

To him, knowing as he does what wax he is
in the hands of the latter, these exhortations
are ft-auij-ht with even more humiliation than
he feels in the contemplation of the past from
his daughter's point of view. And when
Fanny tells him roundly that she, for one, shall
lose all respect for him if he does not " assert
himself," and-compel Mrs. Templeton to
recognise his authority," and " put down all
her unjustifiable and becoming extravagancies
with a strong hand," the poor Bishop can
only find it in his heart to creep away to the

solitude of his library, and feed upon the
thought of his own helplessness, in his silent
heart.

Unfortunately for the Bishop, he has not
Mr. Grove's strength to lean upon at this
juncture. The private chaplain is away staying
with his old friend, the new Bishop of
Fitz-Spitzburg, previous to the latter's departure
for his foreign field of action and sphere
of labour, to which he is about to swoop offa
strong corps of earnest and enthusiastic
volunteers. Mr. Grove is one of these, but
his departure is to be delayed for a time,
until the Bishop of Atherton Towers can find
a successor worthy of him he succeeds, and
of the private chaplaincy. Meanwhile, the
Bishop, during Mr. Grove's temporary absence,
feels like a rudderless ship floating on
a desperate sea, both in his private and in
his official capacity.

Ethel Heatherley, his step-daughter, is
the only one in the house from whom
he gets any comfort. She, out of her profound
pity for the way in which her mother

makes a cipher of him, puts her own sorrow
aside as much as she can, and tries to
amuse him with her girlish unaffected talk
about men and women, and things in general,
and with that dearly-loved fiddle of hers,
which once found no favour in Fanny Templeton's
eyes.

But circumstances have materially altered
and enlarged Fanny's mind about the fiddle.
Now that the one who plays is going to be a
marchioness, Miss Templeton sees much that
is good and deserving of the sincerest admiration
and closest imitation in all that '' one "
does. Miss Templeton sees that all is not
well between Ethel and her mother, and
shrewdly enough suspects the cause of the
visible estrangement. Therefore, she feels
that her avowed friendship for the daughter
does not, by any means, involve a cessation of
hostilities against the mother.

There is no knowing what turn affairs
may take even now," Fanny thinks. Lord
Monkstown may get tired of wooing Ethel,
who will not be won. A man's heart is often

caught in the rebound, Miss Templeton reminds
herself, and even if such great good
luck as is shadowed forth in this suggestive
reminder should not be her portion, a lesser
good may be secured. Ethel, as the Marchioness
of Monkstown, will have it in her
power to give much pleasure to any young
lady friend who may be lucky enough to stay
with her often. Why shall not Fanny be
that young lady friend ? " Most people like
to have a bright, pretty, clever girl about the
house," Miss Templeton tells herself, complacently,
and she registers a resolve to be
that girl in the Monkstown establishment.

Towards this end she flatters Ethel directly
and indirectly, and round about and in unexpected
and undefended places. She copies
Ethel's style of dress and way of putting on
her things, and glides into the same arrangement
of the hair. She copies Ethel's modes
of speech, her opinions, and debonair way
of doing things. She applauds the fiddle vehemently,
and begs Ethel, in her magnitude
and good nature, to take the trouble to give

her (Fanny) a few lessons on that once condemned,
but now sweetest of all musical m-
instruments. She takes to petting horses and
dogs, and to love riding and driving herself,
just as Ethel does. Until the latter, craving
to get away from her own thoughts, finding
neither peace nor pleasure in the society of
her mother, and, believing in her truthful
heart that when so much liking and regard is
professed, much must be felt, falls into the
habit of looking at Miss Templeton in the
light that young lady has placed herself
in ! The \\2\\t of strong unselfish, devoted
affection !

From the hour of Lord Monkstown's
arrival, and establishment as a guest in the
Palace, Ethel clings to this friendship as her
best protection. The two daughters of the
house are inseparable in these days, and Lord
Monkstown, though he irirds against never
enjoying a tete-astute with Ethel, is partially
reconciled to the order of things, which gives
him the society of " so charming a woman as
Miss Templeton ! "

Yes ! it has come to this, in the course of
two or three days ! The Marquis of Monks-town
thinks Fanny a very charming woman ;
and almost wishes that her charms had cast
Ethel's more piquant and younger beauty
into the shade, at Boyne Place.

A deuced sensible woman, too," his lordship
tells himself; "one who listens to a good
story well, and understands it thoroughly,
and appreciates its point, by Jove ! " This
qualification is a great one in his eyes, for he
prides himself on his powers in good story-telling,
and it is obvious to him that Ethel,
though she is pointedly polite up to the
listening point, rarely takes in the gist of
what he says so subtly.

Ethel, in fact, is sick to death of, and
nearly worn out by, the part she is playing
a part that she knows she Avill throw up
suddenly, one day, to the utter discomfiture
of many, and the destruction of !

Well ! she will not, even to herself, Avoid
the conviction that she has that her mother
is playing Avitli combustibles, which will presently

explode, shattering everybody who has
been within reach of her lately  more especially
those who have trusted, relied upon, and
befriended her. But though she will not
word it, she has it, and it disturbs and darkens
her, and makes her a more easily-moulded
and less fearlessly-reliant Ethel, than she has
ever been before.

There is something pitiable in the way in
which she so promptly complies with every
little conventional request Lord Monkstown
makes to her. She Avill play and sing to him
by the hour (but the song he likes best,
Twickenham Ferry" she carefully eschews).
She is always ready to ride with him, and her
mother has presented her with a handsome,
weedy young thorough-bred, a perfect lady's
hack (which taxes the nerves and energies of
the Bishop's grooms), or to drive him along
the lovely Atherton Towers lanes. But she is
never ready to listen to him when he wants
to play the lover. And the patience with
which he accepts the situation begins to
perplex her sorely.

If he would only grow indignant and
demand an explanation ! If he would only
show righteous displeasure at the way in
which the girl who had promised to marry
him, treats him, Ethel feels that she could
open her heart, and make her confession to
him. But he Avill not do this, he will treat
her as if he were perfectly satisfied, and had
nothing to complain of ; and, while he does,
this, Ethel feels tongue-tied on the most
momentous subject of her life.

Long conferences take place frequently
between Mrs. Templeton and Lord Monks-town
 conferences at which none of the
others are allowed to assist. If vigilant Mrs.
Templeton sees that her daughter's noble
lover looks disappointed or depressed for a
moment by Ethel's systematic evasion of
aught approaching to lover-like demonstrations
on his part, he is instantly swooped off
by the vivacious lady, on some pretext or
other. Now it is that he must come into the
now finished, and nearly filled conservatory
with her, to give his opinion on the blending

of certain colours, in the arrangement of
various groups of plants. Xow it is that he
must go with her to the stables, to look at
the new horses and ponies which fill the
Bishop's stalls, and feed freely on the Bishop's
corn. And when she gets him to herself
in tJiis way, she soothes the ruffled vanity,
and pours balm into the Abounded heart, with
skill and efficacy.

"Ethel is still so much of a child that
she hardly knows the meaning of love yet,"
she tells him; "but Alien once you have
awakened it in her heart, 3'ou will find it
no fleeting fancy with lier. 1 know my
daughter so well, that I can read her
thoughts at a glance, and I know now that
she shrinks from showing the real warmth
of her regard for j'OU, fearing you might
attribute it to her desire to repays you for
your generosity to me."

My dear madam, it is distinctly understood
between us that that subject is never
to be alluded to," he says, magnificently.

Ah ! you are so good ! But I can never

forget it ; but, about Ethel, believe me when
I say that the seed your noble conduct has
planted in her heart will bear rich fruit of
love some day."

I shall be perfectly happy and satisfied if
I can feel that she marries me of her own
free-will."

You must never do yourself the injustice
of doubting it ; she is a little in awe of you
now; I was must the same when first ensrao-ed
to her dear father ; indeed, Mr. Heatherley
told me, after our marriage, that he was
many, many times on the point of breaking
off our engagement, he thought ray manner
so repellant ; and I adoring him all the time 
as Ethel does you."

Lord Monkstown is compelled to believe a
lady who speaks with such a thrilling air of
truth. But at the same time he does find it
hard to reconcile Ethel's demeanour to him
with that feeling of adoration which her
mother declares the girl is fraught with for
him ! However, doubt on the subject being
intensely disagreeable, he dispels it as much

as possible, by turning his attention and
thoughts in other directions  chiefly in
Fanny's.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Templeton hurries on the
trousseau regardless of expense, and continually
commits Ethel to the course she has
been forced upon, by compelling the girl to
give orders and make choice of things for the
approaching event, in the principal shops of
Atherton Towers.

It's all waste, sheer, wicked waste," Ethel
says to Mrs. Templeton one day when she
had been goaded into selecting a forty-guinea
seal-skin jacket. " I know these things will
never be wanted ; I know something will be
good enough to happen to break off the
marriage. I shall die, probably, for I can't
live long with this dull, dreadful pain in
my heart."

I know what has upset you this morning,"
Mrs. Templeton says, encouragingly. " It is
bad taste on Mr. Gilford's part to ride about
with Miss Somerset ; it shows a nasty,
vindictive spirit."

Have you seen them riding together ? "
Ethel asks, quickly. ." I haven't ; are you
sure you have seen them, mother ? "

Quite sure, dear ; but if I had thought
it possible they could have escaped your
notice nothing would have induced me to
mention the fact to you," Mrs. Templeton
says, with her prettiest air of veracity, she,
all the while, being fully conscious that the
pair had passed unnoticed by Ethel, and
deeming it a fair part of the curing-process.


Perhaps the earth will open and swallow
us both up before Walter and I are wicked
enough to marry, as other people have
arranged we shall marry," Ethel says, and
Mrs. Templeton, who is contented enough
that Ethel should be unresigned, provided
she be passive, thinks it wise to change
the subject.

We'll drive round to the cottage, Ethel,
and see how they are getting on there,"
she says, assuming animatedly that Ethel
is as much interested in the re-decoration

VOL. n. H

and furbishing np of the furniture at the
cottage as she is herself. " She is putting
her old house in order with a view to letting
it," she tells the Bishop, but he knows, as
well as she does, that she is putting it at
its best in order to fill it with some of the
grand guests, of whom she has made out an
imposing list, who are to be invited to
the wedding.

I promised the Bishop that I Avould
go and play to him half-an-hour before
luncheon," Ethel says ; " if you'll drop me
I'll Avalk home."

Mrs. Templeton frowns lightly. For a
moment her gay conscience pricks her as her
daughter speaks, for the Bishop is laid up
with a slight attack of the gout  and she has
not relieved the tedium of the couch of pain
by any of those readings which she so prettily
shadowed forth to him that evening in the
moon-lighted room at Wey bridge.

Tell him," she says, as the carriage stops,
and Ethel prepares to get down, " that I
know he will prefer such a substitute for me

this morning ; dear child ! you are very good,
much better to him than his own daughter
is ; when I have more time I shall delight in
spending long hours with him in that grand
old library "

She checks herself, remembering that the
Bishop is not here to be soothed by the
fallacious hope, and that Ethel will not
believe her.

While Mrs. Templeton and her daughter
are out shopping this morning, Fanny is
doing equally good work at home.

Lord Monkstown, who always feels more or
less astray when sustaining Mrs. Templeton
deserts him, for ever so brief a period, has
been drifting about the house and grounds
for about an hour, when Fanny, who has
been keeping her eye on him, thinks that the
time is ripe for her to try and divert his
mind.

By the time she joins him outside on the
south side of the house, where beds of
Russian violets are making the winter air
sweet as if it were summer-time. Lord

H 2

Monkstown has l)egun to feel himself
neglected.

Now, that Lord Mcnkstown should be
neglected, seems to be about the most
distressing and untoward circumstance that
can happen, hi Lord Monkstowu's estimation.
Accordingly, when he is joined by Miss
Templeton, there is upon him the air of an
injured man.

"lam afraid," he says, stiffly, "that you
are neglecting more important and more
pleasant duties in giving me a few minutes
of your time. Miss Templeton ? Every one
here seems to be in such a whirl of business
that mere social amenities get disregarded."

I have been watching you for the last
hour, and longing to join you," Fanny says,
with maiden guile. " I feared t( intrude on
your thoughts of  Ethel ! "

The marquis is a trie appeased, but far
from being entirely satisfied ; still, he thinks
Miss Templeton a very charming woman 
one who sees the best side of, and puts
the best interpretation upon things ! " A

very charming woman, indeed ! " his lordship
thinks ; and he rewards her as she deserves,
by walking up and down within scent of
the Russian violets for an hour.

Ms

I MUST HAVE TIME.

HIRS. TEMPLETON has not garbled

facts in saying she has seen Walter
Gifford riding with Miss Somerset.

It has come about thus, that the pair are
riding together :

Miss Somerset has been languid, and
overcome with ennui for several days, and
Mabel, like the good sister and staunch friend
she is, suggests horse-exercise, and begs that
Walter will order it.

I'll order it ; but who is to ride with
her ? " he says.

'' I suppose she can get a groom from the
same stable from which she gets a horse,"
Mabel says, with dignity. Then, her desire
to see all things straight between these two
gets the better of her dignity, and she
adds 

But surely, Walter, you will be able to

ride with Lily sometimes ? and I know she
will suit her time to yours."

She had better understand that I am a
poor and busy man ; she had better feel from
the first that I have no time for riding for
pleasure ! "

'' Ah, Walter ! can she forget that if
she had had her way, you would have
been a poor man no longer, however busy
you might be ? "

We won't speak of that again, Mabel,
please ! " he says. " Lily did all that a kind,
true woman friend could do for a man ; it
is my misfortune that I haven't been able
to respond a a man would wish to respond
to her noble kindness ; but if riding
will give her health, and my riding with
her will give her pleasure, I'll ride with
her, of course ; only, don't you go building
up a fabric of folly on the slight foundation
of my concession."

If you think I wish to interfere  "

Oh, nonsense ! " he interrupts, wearily ;
it's beyond your power to interfere with

good effect, or ill effect, now ; only, don't
you, in a misguidecfly good-natured moment,
attempt to make Lily think that I am
her slave lover ! I hardly know what to
call the thing I was once. I am only
really her friend, Mabel ; I only really like
her ; let her understand this'

You give me a pleasant part to play, and
put things into my mouth that are pleasant
to say," she says, in an offended tone ; but
her brother only laughs at her, and tells her
that she hugs her chains, and finds Lily
Somerset's yoke a light one, through love of
her.

However, out of this conversation comes
this result : that Lily Somerset hires a hack
the best that is to be hired in Aller-ton
Towers, and Walter Gifford rides with
her !

And Lily rides so warily ! Warily as she
does everything else ; doing nothing to attract
attention, but still winning it at every step
]her horse takes ; winning it surely, but unwillingly
enough from Walter Gifford, who

wishes she were less winning, or he himself
less easily won ; but still failing to find her
faulty, and not seeing much cause to condemn
himself.

She has a perfect seat, and as light a hand
as ever touched the reins. As fortune will
have it, too, the horse that has been selected
for her is one that well displays the graces of
her rider. A long, lithe, lean-headed mare,
with a sweeping stride, and with action so
swingingly easy, so faultlessly true to time,
that her rider never swerves by a hair's -
breadth in the saddle, whatever the pace maybe.


Ethel Heatherley has taught Mr. Gifford
to be a severe critic about horsemanship,
but his critical eye and taste fail to discern
aught with which he can find fault in I.ily
Somerset's style of going. Across country,
where much fencing has to be done, Ethel
would probably be in a better place than
Lily, but as a straight-forward road-rider
Miss Somerset is unexcelled in Mr. Gifford's
experience.

This day he rides through the streets of
Atherton Towers with her for the first time.
Hitherto, he has managed to skirt the town,
and get away into the more secluded lanes
that intersect this lovely country. But today,
Lily thwarts him naturally, and with
apparent design, and he has to yield his
consent to do what is repugnant to him,
namely, ride through the principal street,
in which are situated all the best shops.

He has a presentiment that he will meet
Mrs. Templeton or Ethel, as soon as Lily
says to him 

Will you mind passing Turner's shop
this morning ; they're doing a dress for me,
and I want to tell them that I've changed
my mind about the puH'ed sleeves"'

Of course he can do nothing but assent
to her proposal, for he has no valid reason
to assign f(3r refusing it. At the same time,
he does heartily regret having expressed a
dislike to pitied sleeves on the previous
evening, since Miss Somerset is going to
make her concession to his taste the

occasion of his more than possible discomfiture.


He is nearly passed the peril  that is to
say, they have paused at Turner's, Lily
has driven her orders as to the alteration
in the sleeves, and they are nearly at the
end of the street, when Mrs. Templeton's
open carriage passes them. Ethel, to Mr.
Gifford's intense relief, is bending forward,
pencil in hand, making an entry in a notebook,
which is lying in her lap. But Mrs.
Templeton's sparkling blue eyes are all over
him and his companion in a moment, and
there is a good deal of malicious satisfaction
in the smile which accompanies the
little bow she gives him.

There goes the woman who has blighted
my life ! " he says, bitterly, and Lily, tl linking
he refers to Ethel, says 

1 am sorry you have seen her, and more
sorry that she didn't see you ; it's hard that
all the pain of this chance meeting should
fall on you."

She did see me ; didn't you see how she

brightened up, and bowed to me, as if she
had ascended the throne since I saw her last,
but was still gracious and condescending
enough to remember me ; the day will come,
I feel sure, when I shall know the full
amount of my debt to Mrs. Templeton, and
then I trust I may be able to discharge it."

"I thought you were speaking of the
daughter at first," Lily says, gently. Then
she goes on magnanimously to speak of her
rival's beauty and brilliant grace, and to
expatiate on the superb way m wliicli Miss
Heatherley will wear her rank.

Bless her ! " Walter says, when Lily
pauses. " Whatever happens I shall always
think P]thel the best and sweetest girl in the
world. How such a mother ever came to
have such a daughter is one of those unsolved
problems of nature which almost
]paralyse the mind of man."

Mrs. Templeton is a very fascinating-woman,
J should think," Lily says. She can
bring herself to utter words of praise and
admiration of Ethel, but that Walter should

glide on so fluently in the same strain is
rather distasteful to her.

"Yes ; I found her fascinating enough when
she saw nothing better in view for her
daughter than a marriage with me ; but
when she got in with the Palace and the St.
Just set, and saw signs of weakness on the
Bishop's part, she assumed quite another
aspect in my eyes ; and now the woman is
absolutely hateful to me, in spite of her being-
Ethel's mother."

I am sorry she is a fair woman with blue
eyes ; you'll identify her qualities with her
colour, and unconsciously endow others who
have the same complexion with them."

No, Lily, I shall never suspect you of
either perfidy or wanton cruelty towards
me," he says, so heartily that the tears
spring into Lily's eyes, and the colour into
her face.

I may be cruel to myself, and perfidious
to all the rest of the world, but I shall never
be the one or the other to you, Walter," she
says, and he does love her a little for the

quiet unwavering way in which she persists
in continuing fond of him, and continuing to
show that fondness.

Well, it is the old, old story that is being
told here. In most marriages there is more
love on one side than the other, and in most
cases the one who loves least is the
happiest.

At any rate, however things are to be with
these two people in the future, they are both
very happy in the present (in spite of a few
retrospective pangs which Walter Gifford
feels), when they go into the old oak parlour
after their ride, and Walter says :

Well, Mabel, will you think Lily very
rash when I tell you that she has consented
to take me for better and worse? and that
we've made up our minds, that as there is
nothing to wait for we won't wait for it, but
will get the marriage over without delay."

It need not be told that when she hears
this, one of the trio at least is unfeignedly
happy, with a happiness that is undisturbed
by back-thought or forethought of any kind.

There is, as Walter says, nothing to wait
for, additionally, there is no one to consult
saving themselves. And so, before Atherton
Towers recovers from the gasp of amazement
with which it hears of the approaching
marriage of its popular young surgeon, that
marriage is an accomplished fact.

It comes off very quietly at the church of
St. Bartholomew's-on-the-Wall, about a fortnight
before those grander nuptials, in anticipation
of which all Atherton Towers is thrillingly
expectant, are to come off. There is no
hitch of any kind, no let or hindrance in the
proceedings, and Walter Gifford finds himself
walking out of a secluded church with a wife
on his arm, in the most ordinary and
unexcited way.

Ours must be a short wedding-tour, Lily,"
he has told her beforehand, and so now when
he tells her that "ten days' leave of absence
from his work is all he means to take,"
she is quite prepared, and perfectly acquiescent.


If y(ni will tell me to go straight to my

new home and begin our life together at
once, as we suppose it will run on for
some years, I am ready to do it," she says,
cheerfully, and he is sorry foi himself
that he cannot emulate her tone as he
replies :

No, no ! the disposition of the first fortnight
or so is your prerogative, after that
you will be sensible enough to remember that
I am a business man, and that business must
be my first consideration."

I will never forget that / am not the first
consideration with you, Walter," she says,
pathetically, but not at all crossly. And
with secret pain he admits to himself that
she is not, that she never can be the first
consideration with him.

From the hour Mrs. Walter Gifford
marries, she puts her former self in the background
in a way that would touch her
husband with tenderness  if lie ever gave a
thought to her. But this is a thing he rarely
does. And when one of these rare periods
of thoughtfulness for her do occur, she is

made so happy by observing them, that he
can but think she finds her lot all that she
can desire, and be well pleased with himself
for his share in making it such a satisfactory
one.

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Gilford go their social
ways very quietly and unassumingly in
Atherton Towers. They are known as people
who are distinctly very well off, if not
absolutely very wealthy ; but they are also
known as people " who are not likely to be in
the Palace set," therefore the upper ten of
Atherton Towers abstain from calling upon
the bride, but do their best to make amends
for this omission by talking about her a great
deal.

Another current subject of supreme local
interest is the extraordinary way in which
Ethel Heatherley's marriage is put off. At
first it had been understood to be definitely
fixed for the first week in January. Then,
Mrs. Templeton, her face masked by her
sweetest smile, her feelings masked by her
sweetest manner, has to announce that the

arrangements for the wedding cannot be
completed in time, in consequence of the
Christmas festivities ! Lord Monkstown hastens
to this statement with perfect politeness, even
with a semblance of belief, but with a
frigidity that is ominous, and that startles
Mrs. Templet on into saying 

I do assure you this is no excuse, the
motive I assign for deferring the wedding fora
short time is a valid and reasonable one,
you must admit, my dear Lord Monkstown?
I have plenty of energy', but I feel that these
Christmas doings will quite exhaust it  for a
time."

I know that Mrs. Templeton will not
let a trifle stand in the way of the fulfilment
of my wishes  and her own ! " he replies,
bowing gravely, and she accepts this as a
compliment, and is glad, under cover of it,
to smile herself out of the room before he
can say any more on the vexed and perplexing
question.

She goes straight to Ethel, and begins
in a tone of angry complaint that is

quite a new method in lier treatment of her
daughter.

I have done my most odious task, Ethel,
and put the wedding off as you insist ; but
what 1 have gone through in doing it
language cannot tell. I am sure Lord
Monkstown suspects that he is being played
fast and loose with. I can only describe
his manner as being contemptuously angry,
and / have to bear the brunt of it ! "

Mother, d-ear, I wanted to bear the brunt
of it myself. If you had only done what
I begged you to do  let me go to Lord
Monkstown, and tell him that while my
heart aches so horribly at the thought of
Walter Gifford having been wearied into
marrying a girl he doesn't love, I rant
marry  I'm sure he would have been generous
and manly, and have set me free."

"Ethel!" Mrs. Templeton says, sharply;
you'll kill me if you break off this match ;
all my peace in life will go ; you don't
know  you can't imagine, how fierce and
masterful the Bishop has been several times

I 2

already about jnoney-matters ; but if it
comes about, through you, that I have none
of ray own, and that I'm dependent on him,
he'll break my heart, and crush my spirit,
and make me the most unhappy woman inexistence
; and this v/ill be my daughter's
doing ! the work of my own child, for whom
I have done all I lia\e done. Heaven knows
my own tastes are simple enough. A cottage
and a modest competence would have supplied
all my wants, and gratified all my
desires ; but I could not see you growing
up without the comforts and luxuries to
which your birth entitled you ; and so,
out of my unselfish love for you, T grew
extravagant I and this is my reward, that
you thwart me, and threaten to bring about
my ruin ! "

Her mother's words are very terrible to
Ethel, though knowledge (f what that
mother is, combined with intuition, makes
the girl more than half suspect that they
greatly exaggerate the dangers and difficulties
by which Mrs. Templeton declares herself to

be surrounded. Still, the words are very
terrible for the daughter to listen to, and so,
for the sake of soothing the anguish of mind
which Mrs. Templetou forcibly portrays,
Ethel promises afresh that, if time is given
her, she will eventually fulfil the marriage-contract
that has been made for her by her
mother and Lord Monkstown.

But I must have time ! " the iii repeats,
Time to get accustomed to the thought of
Waiter's having been so much weaker than I
ever thought he could be ; he'll feel it so
dreadfully himself some day, poor fellow ! "
she continues, with pathetic pity.

You will soon get accustomed to the
thought that a man for whom you once had
a high  of whom, I may say, we both
had the highest opinion  is weak ; it's what
most men  indeed, I may say, all men  are,"
Mrs. Templetou says, resignedly, and Ethel
waxes impatient.

"There's no need for you to take that lone,
and pretend you once thought highly of
Walter, and are disappointed in him now ;

you know you're pleased at what lie has
done ; you won't let yourself think that I'm
cut to death nearly ; don't treat me like a
child with a broken toy ! "

' My dear Ethel, you have used the words
for which I was searching my limited vocabulary.
That is just what Mr. GifFord has
proved himself  a mere toy, in a clever,
intriguing woman's hands ; a mere broken
reed for you ever to rely upon ; but happier
days are in store for us all, roy darling !
And when time has been allowed for your 
I mean for our  Christmas festivities to begot
over comfortably, you Avill reward Lird
Monkstown for his noble patience, and set
your poor mother's heart at rest? Yes, I
kn(j\v you will ! "

I will try to ; it's all I'm good for now,"
Ethel says, and she begins lier work of
complete and entire self-abnegation this evening,
by looking over, with apparent interest,
some plans which the marquis's architect
has forwarded for the re-building of the left
wing of the Irish castle, which has fallen

into decay during the occupation of the
present and late lords with their families.

My grandmother  the most celebrated of
all the Marchionesses of Monkstown  had her
suite of apartments in the left wing, and held
almost royal state there. Since her time the
rooms have been practically unused ; but
they are the grandest in the castle, Ethel,
and, as such, are well fitted to be specially
dedicated to the service of the most beautiful
mistress the castle has ever known."

When Lord Monkstown says this to Ethel,
Ethel bends her head low over the ]plans for
the restoration of the left wing, which are
lying on a low table before her. And Fanny
comes up and kneels by her side, and whispers
to her what a fortunate, highly-honoured girl
she is in having her comforts and tastes
studied by such a man of men as the marquis,
and prays her to .seem glad and grateful to
him ! " And lowly as she murmurs these
words, they are quite audible to Lord Monks-town,
who is on Ethel's other side, and they
make him think more favourably than ever

of Fanny Templeton, who is, his lordship decides,
not only a most charming woman, but
one gifted with a clear understanding, and a
profound and highly-commendatory appreciation
of him.

But there is something in Ethel's outspoken
and simple reply to Fanny's whisper which
makes him accord the highest place in his
estimation to his future bride, after all.

Lord Monkstown would do the same for
any woman he was going to marry, Fanny.
It's not so much me  Ethel !  as his future
wife he's thinking of; and I'm sure you
would not wish me to utter a lot of servile
thanks, would you. Lord Monkstown?"

No, Ethel," he says, heartily ; ' but
Mis Templeton declaims the sentiment ' that
if love prompted the thanks, there would
be no servility in them.' "

THE Marquis OV M()NK8TOWN ASSERTS HIMSELF.

dE. and Mrs. Walter Gifford have been

home nearly three months, and

still the Marquis of Monkstown

displays the most exemplary ]patience,

and still Ethel Heatherley pleads with her

mother for "more times'"

The teat conservatory has its sides nearly
covered with creeping plants of rapid growth
by this time, and is as perfect in every detail
as if it were contemporary with the Palace,
instead of only having been called into existence
during the last few months, by Mrs.
Templeton's magic wand.

This same magic wand has been very freely
Avaved over the Palace and its grounds. The
appointments of the former have been revised
and improved b}' the exercise of Mrs.
Templeton's taste, till the old habitues of the
place timidly recognise it under its present

conditions of elegance and luxury. It has
always been Mrs. Templeton's misfortune to
lack the calculating mind ; therefore, now,
Avhen the bills for all this elegance and
luxury, which she has ordained for the
greater glorification of her noble future son-in-law
and daughter, come in, Mrs. Templeton
finds, to her surprise and chagrin, that she is
utterly unable to meet more than half of
them. That she has, in fact, already
exceeded her incline, and, saving for any
supplies she may wring out of the Bishop, will
be practically penniless for many montis to
come.

Some of the tradespeople whom she has
patronised with almost regal liberality knew
nothing of, and, consequently, suffered nothing
through her when she was Mrs.
Heatherley. These are patient and foi-bearing,
and really quite eager to have
payment deferred till next year. But others
wjio knew, and served, and suffered from the
lady's custom in days of yore, are not disposed
to show lier any quarter now.

over and over again they jend m
peremptory reminders that their bills have
been " delivered." These reminders she puts
into the fire, whither the bills have preceded
them. Having done this, she tries to forget
all about them, little suspecting the
maliciously-ingenious form which their next
applications will take.

(Jne morning, a whole budget of them are
simultaneously delivered to the Bishop, each
containing a notification to the effect that
repeated applications having been made to
Mrs. Templeton without satisfactory result,
they now take the liberty of asking his lordship
for an immediate settlement.

The sum-total horrifies his lordship, and
the majority of the items scandalise him.
For one article alone  a thing he has regarded
as a mere piece of prettiness  a china plate,
sunk in a velvet rim, and planted on a pedestal
as a table  six hundred pounds is charged,
and a clearly-worded description of it informs
]him that it is a '' Sevres " plate, painted expressly
for, and once in the possession of.

Madame du Barri! In short, much of its
value consists iu its border being of the real
/ic-yt; du Barri! That he should possess
anything that rests its fame on original
infamy is an abomination to him. How
much more abominable when he is asked
to pay six hundred pounds for it !

In addition to the bitterness of feeling-involved
in the enforced close consideration
of these bills, and the direful extravagance
they represent, there is the additional bitterness
of knowing that he must discuss them
with his wife, and that she will be unrighteously
angry with him for doing so. He
feels it within him that whatever justly hard
words he may use, she will employ harder
unjust ones. He knows now that under
that fair, narrowness, smiling face is concealed
a will of iron and a heart of stone, as far ashe
is concerned. He knows that it is his
duty to counsel, and condemn her conduct.
And he knows that she will defy him in her
graceful, passive way, and deter him from
doing his duty properly !

Again he dreads, above all things, that the
facts of the case as it stands now, the fact of
her having incurred these unjustifiable debts,
should come to his daughter's ears. Fanny
has been to a certain extent cowed into a
state of quiescence lately, by her stepmother's
solvency, and actual power of
spending ready money. But her sense of
social rectitude Avill be rampant when she discovers
that Mrs. Templeton is impecunious,
and in debt.

In his dreadful doubt and despair the
Bishop bethinks him of his step-daughter.
If any one can help him out of this dilemma
Ethel is the one. Moreover, Ethel, on the
brink of a marriage with so wealthy a man
as the Marquis of Monkstown, will soon  as
soon as she is over the brink, in fact  be in a
position to help her mother honourably out of
this deplorable difficulty ! Accordingly, he
sends for Ethel, and Ethel comes at once,
violin in hand.

My dear ! " he says, deprecatingly. " No
music this morning, I beseech you. I want

to speak to you very seriously, my dear girl,
about your mother, and your marriage."

"About mother? " she asks, wonderingly.

Yes, sit down and let me speak to you
comfortably, Ethel," he says, nervously, for
he does not like the task he lias set himself.
I have been much pained and surprised
this morning to hear  I mean to see  I may
say to find  that your mother has been more
extravagant than her  I should say than our
circumstances warrant ; in fact she has run
deeply into debt (with the most amiable intention
of pleasing those around her, I am
sure), and this morning the bills have been
sent in to me with a peremptory demand for
payment."

"' Oh, mother ! poor mother ! " the girl
says to herself; but aloud she only says 

' And you ? "

"Cannot meet them, my dear," the Bishop
says, with a sob in his voice ; " cannot possibly
meet them ; and unless I do, Ethel, I shall bea
dishonoured man here in my own cathedral
town."

That you shall not be through my 
through us," Ethel says. And then she tells
herself that the time is now ripe for her to
complete the sacrifice.

I will come to you again by-and-bye," she
says, rising up ; then with her face averted
she adds : " Don't tell Fanny ; she doesn't like
mother, and may put a hard construction
on what poor mother has done ; don't tell
Fanny, will you ? "

With all my heart I trust that Fanny
may never hear a whisper of it," he says,
fervently.

Then Ethel leaves him to seek her mother,
but before she can find Mrs. Templeton, that
lady has unadvisedly rushed in upon the
Bishop's seclusion and her own fate.

The bills  a long and formidable array of
them  are stuck up in line against a row of
books on the writing table. She gives them a
cursory glance, gleaning nothing of their contents,
and says, carelessly : 

Am I inopportune ? I wanted to consult
you about the propriety of my taking notice

of that extremely elegant and lovely Mrs.
Gifford. I find Lady St. Just has taken her
up, and that being the case it won't do
for me to stand aloof; but if you're studying
these notes with a view of writing a
Charge "'

T am doing so, Mrs. Templeton," he interrupts,
terror hidden under his portentous
demeanour. " I am doing so, Mrs. Templeton,
but these notes concern sou only,
and my Charge will be addressed to you
only."

She nods her head slowly in reply to this
exordium, and says, pacifically : 

Do rest from your labours a little : T
have always felt that you concentrate yourself
too much on narrowing subjects ; you are
getting into the habit of thinking Atherton
Towers the world, and yourself the most
important person in it ; it will be bad for
your peace of mind in the long run if von do
this ; really it will."

"T think, Mrs. Templeton, that you are doing
your best to make me the person of least

of most miserable and despicable account
in Atherton Towers," he says, with an air of
bluster that does not frighten his wife for an
instant,

You little know what I could do when
you charge me with lessening your status,"
she says, throwing her head up in a way that
makes him feel his position of being a step
beneath her in some way or other, keenly.
What is all this about ? " she continues
Why am I greeted in this undignified
manner? what has happened to make you
foro-et yourself, and that I am a gentlewoman
? "

For answer, he pushes the bills towards her,
and when she has gathered them up and
glanced at them, she flings them back in a
heap before him.

For pity's sake, for the sake of yourself
(since that I fear is the strongest appeal I can
make to you), don't try to give me the impression
that you possess the narrow, pettifogging,
uneasy, suspicious spirit your conduct
expresses," she says, coldly ; ' because a lot

VOL. II. K

of ignorant, half-insolvent, insolent local
tradespeople have chosen to insult you by displaying
unwarrantable distrust of me, you
assume that I have been guilty of I know not
Avhat misdemeanour towards you. Understand,
my lord, that in directing your wrath
against me you waste what may be potent in
other places ; I ask you once for all to leave
me to deal with my own tradespeople, and
to defray my own bills ; if you refuse todo
this, I shall leave you to bear the
brunt of the responsibilities you insist upon
assuming."

Your tone is dictatorial, and your course
an altogether impracticable one, but if you
weill listen to reason we may still come to
terms that will not involve discredit or dishonour
on either side," he says, and she replies,
coldly, that she " will not listen to reason
even, unless it is couched in conciliatory
lancuaefe."

But she does not say this either crossly or
coldly, and the Bishop cannot find it in his
heart to be angry with so pretty and really

amiable a woman for long ; accordingly, he
does couch his further remonstrances in conciliatory
language, in language that is so
conciliatory, indeed, that Mrs. Templeton rewards
him by agreeing with him entirely, as to
the enormity of charging six hundred pounds
for a Sevres plaque, made into a table by the
aid of hull and marqueterie.

I'll make him take it back," she says,
quite cordially. " I shall tell him that I doubt
its being genuine in the first place, and in the
second, that you don't approve of its antecedents
if it is ; that six hundred will be saved
by doing this, and the rest of the bills can
stand over, till I draw my half-yearly income
in October."

Wouldn't it be ]possible for you to anticipate
a little ? I think it would be well to
clear off these bills at once, my dear, and it
can matter very little, whether you draw a
cheque on your bankers now or next
October."

She looks at him keenly as he makes
the suggestion, but his countenance does

K 2

not betray that he is fishing for the real
source of her income.

"I dislike anticipating my income in that
way, it really is too long beforehand ; my
bankers would think I had been terribly
extravagant," she says, gently.

And I exceedingly dislike owing money."
The Bishop, making a fight for his principles
in spite of her graceful graciousness. " Therefore,"
he continues, solemnly, " if you decline
to draw your own money in advance, I
must make an effort to raise " the sum, and
this I shall only be enabled to do by
encroaching on my little capital."

There is no need for you to do it :
let them wait till October."

But this the Bishop refuses to do, and
the poor woman really suffers keenly from
remorse, as she reflects on her inability to
discharge her debts, or to satisfy her
husband on the point of why she does not
do so. It is impossible for her to ask the
Marquis of Monkstown to advance the
money that he has promised as the price

for her influencing her daughter to accept
him.

It is not only that she shrinks from the
humiliation that is involved in the topic,
but that she dreads his lordship becoming
acquainted with the full extent of her extravagance.
Altogether she is in a cleft
stick, and her heart has rarely been heavier
than it is now, as she leaves the Bishop's
library, and makes her way to her own
boudoir.

She is sitting by the table, her face buried
in her hands, thinking over her jewellery,
and trying to decide upon what she can best
spare, that will make most money. A set of
pearls would, if disposed of prudently, Without
an air of pressure, bring such a sum as
would go a long way towards freeing her
from her liabilities. But these pearls she has,
in Lord Monkstown's hearing, promised to
give Ethel on her wedding-day.

I will not rob my child," she says to herself,
" but I can't let the poor Bishop make a
sacrifice for me ; I have no right to expect

it ; oh ! if Ethel will only be sensible and
conquer her weakness, and marry at once, I
should have no scruples about letting Lord
Monkstown know of my dilemma."

Even as she is thinking this, there comes a
knock at the door, and she calls the smile
back to her face, and banishes care just intime
to give the very man of whom she
had been thinking  Lord Monkstown himself
a bright greeting.

His first words make her nervous ! Is she
to have nothing but shocks this day?

I have intruded on your privacy in order
to speak to you on a very serious matter,
dear lady," he says, so gravely that she feels
her cheeks paling, and her lips quivering with
agitation. Can Ethel have been so wrong, so
rash, so cruel, as to have broken off her
engagement ?

Your presence is always a most welcome
one to me," she manages to say, and lie
boats graciously as he seats himself opposite
to her.

My motive in seeking you this morning

is a very serious one, Mrs. Templeton ;
it is to tell you that it is impossible forme
any longer to blind myself to the very
great repugnance your daughter has to the
idea of a marriage with me."

My lord ! " is all she can gasp out.
This blow is as heavy as it is unexpected.
That Ethel should break off the engagement
has been upon the cards all through, but
that Lord Monkstown should back out of
it is incredible !

I have tried to think what you flatteringly
told me it was  girlish timidity veiling
real love  " he goes on ; "I have even tried
to find satisfaction in the thought that ito



was stronger love for another man which
caused her coldness to me ; but the
truth has forced itself upon me bluntly and
cruelly ; she actually dislikes me now, and if
she is compelled to marry me she will
come to hate me."

You are wrong, indeed, indeed you are
wrong," Mrs. Templeton says, brokenly, but
with intense earnestness  " your sensitiveness

deceives you ; be patient with my
child, and her heart will soon be entirely
your own."

I cannot deceive myself with that vain
hope any longer*' he says, seriously ; " her
heart will never soften towards me, and, if we
were rash and wicked enough to force her
inclinations, disgust and contempt would bethe
sole feelings I should create in her. I
should be a most miserable man, and you a
scarcely less miserable woman if we wrecked
her life in the way that has been contemplated
; my eyes are opened now, and I
cannot close them again ; it would be
cowardly and unmanly of me, if  seeing as
I do the real state of her feelings  I did not
release Ethel."

"This is a very terrible blow to. me, Lord
Monkstown ; but I cannot plead for a continuance
of the engagement since you desire
to break it."

My desire points a very different determination
; my sense of duty to your daughter
compels me to take this step, deeply as it

pains rae to do it ; I shall ask you to be the
medium of conveying my resolution to consult
her happiness only, to Ethel ; to tell
her that I resign lier, myself, would be too
hard a trial for me, and the sight of my
weakness might move her to compassion,
which  she would afterwards repent. I
have only one further favour to ask, and
that is that everything else shall remain on
the same between us, as when I hoped your
daughter would become my wife ? This I
ask of your friendship; this I entreat you
to grant me."

My lord, it is impossible," she says, in
such serious earnest, that he feels she means
it, and will remain firm in her refusal to be
further indebted to him, "that agreement is
cancelled by the unfortunate ending of what
/ at least believed to be a happy engagement."


You grieve me deeply ; let me implore  "

No, no, my lord, it is useless, and you will

only wound me by pressing me to continue to

.accept a favour from one who will now never

be nearer to me then a friend ; I can only
regret, that in my misplaced reliance on the
certainty of my daughter becoming your wife,
I have spent the money to which I now
feel I had not the shadow of a claim ; the past
is beyond my control, but if I continued to bethe
recipient of your bounty now, I should be
despicable in my own eyes."

He finds it more difficult to end this interview
with dignity or grace than he had any
conception of its being when he began it. It
goes sorely against his sense of integrity, that
he should cease to allow Mrs. Templeton
the income agreed upon between them informer
days, because of his now seeing fit to
break off* the contemplated alliance with
Ethel.

Yet he cannot press the point further, for
he sees plainly that though Mrs. Templeton
had no compunctious scruples about selling
her daughter, she has many strong ones about
taking the money, now that she can no longer
give what she is justified in considering a
grand equivalent.

That circumstances should have brought
about such a termination as this, is, I beseech
you to believe, very grievous to me, " Lord
Monkstown says, with becoming emotion ;
and truthfully enough, Mrs. Templeton avers
in reply, that it is very grievous to her
also.

In very sooth the out-look is a gloomy and
sad one for her now. Not only will she be
compelled to allow the Bishop to pay these
appalling bills, but she will have to confess her
impecuniosity  worse than this, her absolute
and complete pennilessness to him. And this,
at a time when he will have to learn that her
daughter will continue to be dependent on
him.

Her position is a miserable one, but to do her
justice, now that remorse is really awakened
in her breast, her chief sorrow is that part of
her punishment must fall on her husband who
has confided in her, and the child who has
striven to aid and save her.

The poor Bishop ! I shall bring him nothing
but pain and grief, " she says to herself,

when Lord Monkstown leaves her, and she
realises that all hope is indeed over for her,
as far as he is concerned. Then she goes
in search of Ethel to tell her that she is
released !

D I S A P P O I N T M E N T.

Quietly and unobtrusively, but still
most efficaciously, has Mrs. Walter
Gifford striven from the day of her
marriage to make herself her husband's chief
helper and counsellor, best friend and most
zealous assistant. Feelings that she has Avon
him against his will, she resolves from the
first to make him and his comfort and
happiness her one consideration. Feeling
that she is the one who gives the most in
every way, she determines that he shall find
her as humble and submissive to him as she
has been imperious and dictatorial to all the
world hitherto.

If he ever repents having married me,"
she tells his sister, " the repentance shall be
caused by something in himself  concerning

himself only! T will never give him a reason
to regret that he has made me his wife."

In very truth he is obliged to admit that
she is faultless as relates to him. Her first
act is to make over her property to him
unreservedly, in case they have no children ;
and for him to have the entire disposition of
it during his life, in case they have a child or
children, but for it to revert to the latter
unconditionally at his decease. In either event
he will be a wealthy man so long as he
lives, and should there be no issue he will
be free to bequeath his wealth to whom he
will.

It is rash of you to put so much in any
man's power," her lawyer tells her, but she
refuses to alter or modify the terms of her
will, telling him that "she has put what she
values infinitely more than she does her money
namely, herself  in Mr. Gifford's power already,
and that she is confident that he will
never abuse the unfettered exercise of that
power, in any way."

Her full and perfect trust in him, shown

with such extraordinary generosity, touches
him but little. It seems to him quite in right
nature of things that a woman who loves him
so well, and has been so anxious to marry
him as Lily has shown herself, should in all
things feel and exhibit illimitable reliance on
him. Accordingly, though he thanks her for
what she has done, he is not one bit the more
loving or tender to ]her in consequence of it.
And Lily knows that he thinks himself well
within his rights in having such a great gift
proffered to him.

But one other thing she proposes which
does awake a little gratitude in his breast,
and this is that his sister Mabel shall make
her home with them.

She has no one besides us in the world
to love and lean upon. With us she will be
always happy, for wayward as I often am, my
waywardness never distresses Mabel," Lily
sap's to her husband, and he gladly accedes
to her proposition, and tells her that she "is
more than generous to make it."

But Lily knows that what appears to him

generous affectionate solicitude for his sister,
is in reality a vague but still strong yearning
for the companionship of a friend who will
always be devoted to her (Lily's) interests,
who will always be patient, and sympathise
With her, and, above all, who will always
think whatever she does is right.

For the time may come, the young wife
feels, when sympathy may be a very needful
and precious thing to her. Not that she anticipates
that Walter will ever be harsh or
unkind to her, he is too just a man for her to
entertain that fear. But he may lapse into a
state of visible indifference, and her proud,
affectionate heart knows that if he does this,
it must turn for comfort to someone.

So Mabel comes to live with these, lier
dearest, and is supremely and unsuspiciouslj
happy in the beautiful home, and in the
society of the two whom she believes to be
so attached and all-sufficient to each other.
That Walter is grave to seriousness, and
abstracted to the point of remissness very
often, does not surprise her, far less pain her.

It is only to be expected from a bus', hardworking
professional man. Mabel has never
been romantic from her earliest youth, nor
does she develop the quality now. Consequently,
the prosaic way in which the
bridegroom and bride deport themselves fails
to excite any attention, far less any uneasiness
on her part. Not being on the lookout
for raptures, she is not conscious of their
being missing. It is enough for her that the
dear object of her desire is attained, and that
Walter and Lily are man and wife.

Man and wife ! United by the holiest
bonds, linked together by a hundred ties of
association, habit, and expediency ! Yet far
apart in reality, divided and kept asunder
by a memory! And that memory is the
undying one of Ethel in Walter Gifford's
heart.

He cannot forget her ! Do what he will in
the way of reasoning with himself, and rebuking
himself, he cannot forget the girl he
has loved and lost, through no fault of either
hers nor his he feels convinced. Honourable

VOL. II. L

and upright man as lie is, moral man as he is,
sensible man as he is in the main, these vain
regrets for Ethel, those tender yearnings for
Ethel, come between himself and his wife
and present happiness at every turn.

He knows that in all things, saving in the
one mistake of having married him, Lily is
absolutely blameless. He knows that she has
enriched him and his children after him, if
he has any, with almost unprecedented liberality.
Yet for all this knowledge he feels
himself growing colder to her day by day,
and sees, with something like a pang of self-reproach,
that she feels it too.

And all the while their circle of friends in
and around Atherton Towers  a circle that
widens after the insidious manner of such
things day by day  are saying of the
Gifford that they are such an exceedingly
happy and well-matched couple, that really
he cannot be congratulated sufficiently on
having escaped the toils set for him by
that intrioruinff woman and her beautiful
daughter.

Mrs. Walter Gifford is quite as popular
socially as her husband is professionally. It is
true she is not in what is technically termed,
the Palace set." But people laugh, and say
they know the reason why she is not, and, asa
rule, seem to think that reason does not
redound to Mrs. Templeton's dignity and
credit. But though excluded at present from
the ecclesiastical potentate's festive gatherings,
Mrs. Walter Gifford has no reason to
complain of being slighted or unappreciated
by the " best set."

GrifRn-like, but really good-hearted Lady
St. Just, gleaning an inkling of the true state
of the domestic case, and being charmed with
the grace and beauty of the wealthy young
wife, who is unable either to buy or win her
husband's love, calls on Mrs. Gifford, and
generally makes much of her.

And as Mrs. Templeton, spite of her efforts
at climbing to the top of 'the tree, is still on
a much lower branch than Lady St. Just,
society takes its tone from the latter lady,
and soon it comes to pass, that if the Bishop's

l2

wife visits well in Atherton Towers and the
neighbourhood, she must do so with the
certainty of meeting the woman who is most
sought after, and that woman is Lily Gifford.

It is an additional bitter drop in Mrs.
Templeton's bitter cup that she should be
compelled to do this at this juncture. For
it is already bruited abroad that the match
between Lord Monkstown and Ethel is not to
come off after all. And without telling
direct untruths  which probably would be
speedily contradicted  the Bishop's wife cannot
put such a complexion on the affair as
will spare her own ruffled vanity, and make it
seem as if Ethel had been the one to draw
out of it.

Licked every drop in her cup is more or
less bitter at this juncture,  the poor baffled
feebly ambitious woman ! all her brightest,
hopes for her daughter have vanished, for
another infatuated and rich marquis is not
likely to stray Ethel's way. All the gloss is
off lier own story from the moment she has to
go with her tale of utter inipecuniosity, and

no prospect of matters improving, to her
irritably irate husband.

There is certainly a want of Christian
fortitude, as well as mere manly forbearance,
in the way in which the Bishop bears the
news, that in spite of all that she has averred
to the contrary, he, and he only will have
to bear the brunt of her reckless extravagance.
He can preach rather touchingly on
the subjects of the forgiveness of injuries,
and the charity which beareth and loveth,
and pardoned all things. But when it
comes home to him, that it is well he should
manifest these feelings towards his own wife,
he finds the practice harder than the preaching,
and grows more eloquent as he feels
more intolerant to her and her late doings.

It is terribly hard on him that the two
blows should fall on him simultaneously. He
could better bear the contemplation and
consequences of his wife's extravagancies and
debts, if that wife's daughter made that noble
alliance which has been one of the lures to
draw him into this net. On the other hand'

he could lose the vicarious glory of the noble
alliance with becoming resignation, if at the
same time he was not sadly sure that in order
to stand a solvent and honoured man in
AUerton Towers again, he must cripple himself,
and impoverish his own daughter  altogether
many a fair excuse may be made for
his developing captiousness and querulous-repining
in these trying days.

There has been a brief interview between
Lord Monkstown and Ethel, before the departure
of the former for Lamington Hall,
where his lordship is going for  a purpose
that will be made clear by and by, an interview,
during which Etliel proffers him such
hearty, grateful, almost affectionate thanks
for his great goodness in releasing her,"
that any latent vanity he may have lead lurking
in some secret place in his moral system,
evaporates entirely for a time.

Whatever the consequences of the rupture
of this marriage-contract may be to lier
mother, and with all her ]heart Etliel prays
that it may be unpleasant only, not painful

nor hurtful, the girl feels that it is for the
good of her own soul that she is saved from
living a repulsive lie. As a friend  a friend
who has been consistently kind and courteous,
and now finally very generous to her  Ethel
caD give respect and real liking to Lord
Monkstown ; as a husband he would have
been so odious to her that he might have
been an occasion of falling to her.

How can she be grateful enough to him
for her escape?

In her ecstacy of gratitude and relief, she
says a great deal on the subject to Fanny, and
is a little surprised at Miss Templeton's treating
her confidences coldly, not to say, discouragingly.
Immediately after the aforesaid
interview, Ethel goes in search of Fanny, feeling
almost sure that the latter will give her
kindly sympathy, which, under the circumstances,
she can hardly expect from her own
mother.

But, a little to her surprise, Fanny listens
to the communication with an air of chilling
contempt.

Isn't it noble of Lord Monkstown ? "
Ethel asks, when she has told her story. " I
always hoped and thought that something
would happen to free me ; but for him to doit
himself, so kindly, too, I can't thank him
enough."

Perhaps you are assuming too much in
supposing Lord Monkstown has done much
violence to his own inclinations in breaking
off the engagement," Fanny says, coldly ; " if I
were you, I would not make myself ridiculous
by affecting these raptures because a man has
shown himself desirous of getting rid of
you."

He isn't that  at least, if he is, then
there's nothing generous or noble, or anything
else that calls for gratitude and admiration
in what he has done," Ethel replies.

Well, dear ! I only say it may be so ; men
are faulty and fickle sometimes, as well as
women ; and Lord Monkstown is only a man,
though Ave must all feel that there are unfortunately
too few men like him. Naturally,
he is one whom all sensible women must love

and admire ; in fact, j'ou in your childishness
(I've always told him it was nothing else) have
gone on preferring a big piece of common
glass to a true diamond. You were not born
to be a great lady, Ethel, and I have no
doubt you will be happier in a humbler
sphere, one to which you have been more
accustomed, than you would have been as
Marchioness of Monkstown."

Well, there's a chance for you now, to
show how the Marchioness of Monkstown
should conduct herself," Ethel says, laughing.
At which Fanny draws herself up, and replies
with a curious mixture of austerity and
gratification, that such jokes are unbecoming,
when made about a man like Lord Monks-town
; and that, though her father's position
would entitle her to aspire to any position,
Lord Monkstown is too much courted and
sought after by innumerable ladies of the
highest degree for her to have a foolish
fancy.

Nevertheless, though she says this, there is
an air of perfect understanding between Lord

Monkstown and herself, when that nobleman
says to her presently, after the hour of his
departure has been fixed 

Can you take a turn in the grounds with
me, or are those little feet afraid of the ironbound
ground ? "

"Not if they tread the same path with
you," she answered, blushing brightly, and
looking surprisingly young.

She puts on a becoming velvet and fur
jacket, and a hat to match it, and goes out
bravely into the frost and snow with him, her
little feet capitally shod, and fully discovered
by an extremely short dress.

I suppose you have heard the result of
my conversation with Mrs. Templet on and
her daughter ? "

Fanny nods assent.

It was the only, the inevitable way to end
it," he says, grandly ; " Ethel is a fine girl, and
a beautiful girl, but she has been badly
brought up ; allowed to read too many foolish
romances, I should say ; at any rate, she lias
successfully nursed a sort of morbid fancy

with very little real root, into a straggling
obtrusive plant, that twines about her life and
impedes the action of those about her. She
has taught herself to believe me a tyrant, and
herself a sacrifice, I fear."

"She has been silly enough to do so, I
know ; " Fanny speaks as if the admission
were dragged out of her sorely against her
will ; as if, in fact, to censure Ethel was
really one of the most painful tasks she
could be called upon to perform.

I have told her," says Miss Templeton,
that the prospect of the fate that was before
her ought to have made her the proudest
and happiest woman in England ; but poor
Ethel ! her soul couldn't rise to the heights.
Ah ! well ! I shall be the chief sufferer by
the change that has taken place. 1 did look
forward, I loll confess it, to seeing you sometimes,
and to having my mind widened, and
my heart strengthened by your wisdom and
goodness. What should I have been to you,
my lord," she continues, playfully, " if you
had married Ethel ? I should have been 

only, but that would have been
better than nothing."

We shall always be friends, great friends,"
his lordships says, with emotion that would
become a younger man. "I am going to
Lamington now  my brother-in-law, Haw-they's
place  and I have great hopes shortly
of seeing my niece, Caroline, and you
acquainted With each other."

You are very fond of your niece ? " she
asks.

She is an admirable girl, and I hope to see
her my daughter-in-law."

I should think she would gladly marry
Lord Kenmare, if only for the sake of being
very, very often with you," Fanny says, with
touchingly-innocent rapture. " I can imagine
the pride she will feel in being so near to you,
for I know what I felt when I thought I was
going to be remotely related to you through
my dear, misguided Ethel. Ah ! well ! It is
good to have known the best, though it maybe
denied to us in the future."

Lord Monkstown feels himself to be that

best " alluded to, on the spot, and recognises
Fanny's superiority more thoroughly than
ever.

Few women possess your remarkable-insight
into character ; few are gifted with
such discernment and discrimination, and to
still fewer is granted the graceful gift of
expressing appreciation as you do," Lord
Monkstown says, with lofty approbation. " I
can assure you that what you have just said
makes me more desirous than ever to make
my niece and you known to each other. It'
will be an inestimable benefit to Caroline to
have such a friend in the family, in the event
of her marrying Kenmare."

Miss Templeton hears the slip, and marks
it, too, Which his lordship makes in thus
identifying her with his " family." But she is
far too acute to drag it forward prematurely
into position. It may remain with safety
in the background, and still be a valuable
aid.

And now I must take my leave," Lord'
Monkstown goes on, looking at his watch.

Is this really ' good-bye ? ' " the lady asks,
with a tremulousness in her tones that
touches him into replying, " Not good-bye ;
you must be far harsher to me than you
have ever been, before I can bring myself to
take a final leave of you."

Ethel's rivals !

EOM the day of Lord Monkstown's
departure all things seem to wear a
dismal aspect at the Palace. Few faces
within its precincts wear a smile on any occasion.
Mrs. Temple ton ceases with startling
suddenness to be young and sunshiny, and
gives way to depression in a way that is only
equalled in selfishness by her former conduct
in the days of her seeming prosperity. Ethel,
though she is in reality more at rest than
she has been for months, finds it impossible
to feel or feign cheerfulness in the face of
her mother's fretful discontent and unhappiness.
The Bishop is as distinctly glum and
ill-humoured as the friends of dissent could
desire to see a churchman who is placed in
so high a position. And Fanny oscillates

between hope and despair relative to the
dearest and closest secret of her heart.

Meanwhile, during this temporary lull at
the Palace, a storm of feeling is raging in
the town relative to the Bishop's wife's debts,
and the jilting of the Bishop's wife's daughter.
Mrs. Templeton is too much unnerved
by the downfall of her house of cards to
attempt to stem public opinion, and put
the case " before society's eyes properly
and prettily for Ethel. And Ethel, so long as
she knows herself to be free, is quite unconcerned
as to the way in which " they say"
her freedom has been obtained.

But a terribly disturbing conflict rages in
Walter Gifford's breast when he hears that it
has all come to nothing between Lord Monks-town
and Ethel Heatherley. The severance
of the chain that bound her to Lord Monks-town
does not bring him nearer to her in
reality ; and he OAvns that it would be an
awful thing if it did do so, since he has a
wife. But in a corner of his imagination 
an ill-regulated and badly-managed corner 

Ethel seems to be more his tliaii she was the
other day! And he blesses her for giving
hint this fanciful comfort. 

By this time their social position is clearly
ascertained and accepted, and their social
engagements have multiplied greatly. Lily
graces the position well, and fulfils all engagements
that tend to the aggrandisement of
her husband with a patient sustained vigour
that is astounding, when it is taken into consideration
how grusomely most of them bore
her. But in this, as in most other things, she
puts herself and her own inclinations in the
background altogether.

Lady St. Just, having met Mrs. Walter
Gilford, and been enchanted with her afresh
at the house of a. mutual acquaintance, feels
powerfully impelled to do that social doughty
deed which is known as " making up a ]party
for a bride." At this party she resolves that
Ethel Heatherley shall be present, in order to
cure the girl of any latent, lingering, romantic
feeling' concerning; Mr. Gilford.

When Ethel sees that man with that

radiant wife of his, the child will know that
her day is done, and his dead buried ; that
conviction forced upon her by the evidence of
her senses, she will bury her own, and be
happy at last with Kenmare."

Accordingly, Lady St. Just invites the
Bishop and his wife to dinner, and asks
the Bishop's daughter and Ethel to come in
the evening.

Fanny, before whom glooms a possibility
which, if it comes to pass, will put hera
step higher on the social ladder than
that on which Lady St. Just stands, cavils
at this indignity of not being invited to
the dinner with her father, and refuses to
go at all.

I have no taste for a scratch evening
at home ' in the country," she tells Ethel ;
in town it is different. There, if you
do brush shoulders with people from the
debatable land, they're sure to be celebrated
for something either creditable or the
reverse."

You mean they're either famous or infamous?,

these people you don't mind brushing
shoulders with  in London ? " Ethel asks.

No ; I don't quite mean anything so broad
not to say loosely elastic," Fanny laughs ;
but I do mean to say that in the country
some people (like Lady St. Just, for instance)
don't mind editing a social miscellany that
they would abstain from mixing with if they
weren't dull. Now I prefer waiting to be
festive until I can be so in good style, among
good people."

We were outsiders, I suppose, till mother
and the Bishop married, weren't we ? " Ethel
asks, quietly ; but there is a lurking laugh in
her eyes that makes Miss Templeton lower
the haughty flag she has hoisted rather prematurely.


It is such a provoking thing when people
twist generalities into personalities," Fanny
replies, complainingly : then she adds, " and I
don't see why you should pretend to think
that we ever held our heads up higher than
your mother and you did ; I believe you
want to make a breach in our friendship,

M 2

Ethel. I believe you think that I had something
to do with Lord ]kingstown breaking
his engagement with you."

"I'm sure I never thought anything of the
kind; and even if I had thought so, I should
have been grateful to you for helping to get
me out of that," Ethel says, vehemently, for
she is quite unconscious of the fact of Fanny
havens some reasons, not wholly unconnected
with Lord Monkstown, foi terminating the
excessive intimacy with Ethel.

"Of course you deny it: it would be a
little too unjust to blame me, even if Lord
Monkstown does feel a strong friendship and
real regard for me," Fanny goes on, in an
injured tone. "I did all I could Nd put the
most flattering face on your manner towards
him, for I pitied you, Ethel, and knew low
eager you must naturally be to exchange your
sad position in this house for the proud and
independent one Lord Monkstown offered
you."

But I wasn't a lit anxious to do that."
Ethel says, wonderingly. " And the Bishop

is too kind to me for me to feel my position
a sad one here."

"My dear Ethel, we are not in the Palace of
Truth ; don't try to impress me vith your
extreme veracity, because, to be honest, I'm
not easily impressed ; at any rate, I can't
emulate your affected coutentedness, for ever
since Mrs. 'Templeton came here I confess I
have felt my position to be a very sad one.
Lord Monkstown's kind heart was pained forme
several times."

Etliel's cheeks burn. Her mother is not
faultless, the daughter is fain to admit this
much to herself; but she is not a petty tyrant
in a systematic way, nor have her sins of
extravagance affected Miss Templeton in anyway
as yet.

Don't impolite blame to mother before
me," she says, quietly ; and then she goes on
with affectionate energy to add, " and try to
remember what a flattered, pampered woman
she has always been, before you judge her
harshly about anything. I have heard that
my father idolised her, and that during the

whole of their married life he never raised a
single objection to anything she did, or proposed
doing."

Spoilt her for decent every-day life, in
fact," Miss Templeton rejoins ; and then, feeling
that she has paved the way rather prettily
to a disclosure that will be made in a few
days, Fanny goes her way through Atherton
Towers for the last time as an unimportant
person !  for the last time as merely the
Bishop's daughter !

It is the day of the dinner and '* at home "
at Lady St. Just's, and the Bishop and Mrs.
Templeton, arrayed in the garbs and the
smiles that society demands, are making their
distinguished way, preceded by three or four
magnificent beings in amazing suits of blue
velvet and plush, towards the drawing-room.
As she flits along a pace ahead of him, the
Bishop is struck afresh by the almost youthful
grace and symmetry of the slender figure
of his wife, and he marks with satisfaction
that this grace and symmetry is well set k.)
and displayed by costly and beautiful dress,

and by the set of rare pearls, about which he
has felt nervous lately, fearing they have been
sacrificed to ]present needs in the general
wreck ; for the pearls belong to Ethel by
right of promise, as lie well knows, and that
Ethel should be defrauded of anything
through her mother's folly would give the
Bishop a pang of real sorrow. This sight of
the pearls is reassuring, therefore, and being
inspirited by it he speaks to, and looks at his
wife more kindly than he has done of late.

The dinner party is small, still, the very
biggest of the big county magnates are at it,
and Mrs.Templeton can no longer doubt that
Walter Gifford has made his mark, and won
his place, when Lady St. Just, pointing out
lovely Lily as she speaks, says :

This party is made up for the bride ; you
know the Gifford, of course ? "

I know, or rather knew him ; his wife I
have never met," Mrs. Templeton says,
sweetly, as if the not having met Mrs. Walter
Gilibrd was a subject of mournful regret to
her.

A slight shiiffliug- of the hiiinaii ]pack of
cards, and Mrs. Templeton finds herself
sitting on a sofa by Mrs. Water Gifford's side,
while the man who was once' to have been
her (Mrs. Templeton's) son-in-law stands up
strong and prosperous before her !

Strong and prosperous, in a room full
of people of admitted high position, all of
idiom are more or less desirous of knowing
more of his wife ! While Ethel, her own
beautiful child, is unmarried still! has "just
been jilted," people are coarse and cruel
enough to say. And she herself has been
proclaimed a penniless woman in the city
in which lie once held her head so high,
and avowed that gold and position were
the only things she wanted and would will
for Ethel.

But she is a brave woman still, in spite of
the way in which her nerves have been torn
to tatters lately. And now. when she knows
that many eyes are bent upon lier, eager to
detect the slightest sign of wincing under the
humiliation there must be for her in this

meeting with Mr. Gifford, she conquers all
outward show of feeling, and says :

It is always so pleasant to meet familiar
faces in fresh scenes, especially when, as in
your case, ]\[r. Gifford, the familiar face looks
happier and brighter than ever."

His wife, sitting by Mrs. Templeton's side,
feels there is sarcasm of a not too kindly'
order in that hide's face. For Walter's face
is rarely bright or happy now, and to-night
its expression borders on solemnity of an
even more intense kind than the well-bred
Briton usually displays in society.

I find very little pleasure in meeting with
familiar faces that have once beamed false
kindness upon me," he says, and at the
moment Lady St. Just, seeing that these two
are conversing pleasantly, as she imagines,
makes a rapid alteration of the pre-arranged
plan of her table, and ordains that Mr.
Gifford shall take the Bishop's wife in to
dinner.

This change involves sending a message lo
the butler to alter and transpose the names

of certain guests, and, feeling confused, that
functionary manages to place Mrs. Templeton
and Walter Gifford close up by Lady St. Just,
who sails into action side by side with a
garrulous old gentleman, who has lately been
the guest of "that good fellow, llawtrey,
at that palatial place of Isis, Lamington
Hall."

 Mrs. Templeton pricks up her ears when
lie hears these words. Pricks them up, not
with pleasurable anticipation, as she would
have done the other day, when Ethel was to
have been the wife of " that good fellow,
Hawtrey's," mighty brother-in-law, but with
the undefinable dread of hearing something;
unpleasant presently, which is the portion .>f
each one of us at some period or other of
our respective careers. Involuntarily she
ceases to babble on lightly and easily, as she
has been babbling for the last ten minutes to
Walter Gifford, and listens anxiously, forebodingly,
for what is surely coming.

'' MonkstoMi came while I was there,"
the sprightly old newsmonger one of the

most inveterate club-gossips of the day 
goes on airily. " Monkstown, you know.
Aye ! to be sure, you rent his place,
Boyne Gate. Well, lie came, looking
altogether unlike the typical Irish landlord
of the period ; our right-reverend friend"
(he inclines his head in the direction in which
the Bishop looks out from between two
rotund dames of hisfli decree, and some
tall table decorations) "our right-reverend
friend is one of the luckiest, as well as, of
course, one of the most deserving sons of the
church ; his daughter will have a splendid
position, by Jove ! "

It was his .S'ep-daughter, and it's all off,"
Lady St. Just says, below her breath, making
a vain effort at the same time to subdue her
informant into silence with a "dance. But
the well-informed country-house visitor is
*' kittle cattle " to deal with. He will have his
say, while his say is a novelty.

No, no, I assure you I have it on the
best authority. Hawtrey himself, who had it
from Monkstown Anselm; it's Miss Temple-toil,

our right-reverend friend's own daughter,
who is to '"

Mrs. Templeton, I hope we are to see
both Fanny and Ethel by-and-bye," Lady St.
Just interrupts, as politely as it is possible to
interrupt anyone, bending forward kindly and
sympathetically, under the influence of the
pitying sense she has of Mrs. Templeton
wanting all that can be given her of protection
and sympathy now.

Mrs. Templeton shakes her head ; she
cannot control her lips and command them t<
speak for a moment, and the skilled raconteur
seizes the opportunity her silence gives him
to say in an audible aside to Lady St.
Just :

"Mrs. Templeton? the mother of the fair
bride-elect."

'The step-mother of the bride-elect, if
there's an elected bride in the case," lady St.
Just says, coldly ; " but I know you of old.
Mr. Grey; if you can't bring the rumour
of a divorce, y(u will luring one of a
marriage."

"Ha, lia, ha!" the cheery old gossip
hiuirhs, delightedly ; " feehno- that the latter
leads inevitably to the former, I suppose you
mean." Then he steadies the muscles of his
society-benumbed face, and becomes as affectedly
solemn as he lias before been jocular
and juvenile.

"You are right, quite right! these are
very serious subjects, and anything like
joking about them is in extremely bad taste.
Monkstown is on his last legs, I fear we must
all admit that ; still, he can make the young
lady a marchioness, and that being the case
she will overlook the shakiness of the legs inconsideration
of the solidity of the position.
Pretty woman, too, I hear," he goes on, forgetting
Mrs. Templeton's vicinity, " and
clever enough to have got the whip hand of
Monkstown, even while he was engaged to
another girl."

These words, uttered with the air of one
who knows all about it, render Mrs. Templeton's
position of masterly inactivity untenable
any longer ; she cannot sit there listening

and not responding, now that the " other
girl " has been mentioned.

The Marquis of Monkstown commands
every feeing of respect and gratitude I
have," she says, softly, bending forward as
she speaks. " I am more than glad to hear
that he contemplates making a marriage,
which I trust and firmly believe Avill ensure
his happiness."

As Mrs. Templeton says this, Lady St. Just
buttons the sixth button of her glove, and
indicates, by a facial contortion, that the
moment has come when the gentler sex are to
be severed from the ruder for a while. From
every point of view Lady St. Just sees that
silence on Mrs. Templetou's part, on the
subject of the Marquis of Monkstown, would
be golden now. But* Mrs. Templeton judges
differently. Fanny's flag shall not be hoisted
so high above Ethel's, without a valiant effort
on the part of the latter's mother to raise
Ethel's standard, too.

My own fatherless dear girl disappointed
him bitterly, bitterly, I know, and deeply do

I regret that she did so; but my charming
step-daughter, having caught his heart in the
rebound, relieves me of all anxiety concerning
his future happiness."

The old gentleman, who has blurted out
the good tidings so prematurely, is so overcome
at the angelic way in which Mrs.
Templeton takes the intelligence that another
girl has stepped into the enviable shoes which
were once placed ready for her daughter's
wear, that he can only ejaculate: "Monks-town
must be mad, by Jove ! " and as Mrs.
Templeton glides away, smiling seraphically,
he conceives and henceforth nourishes a
feeling of almost vindictive hate against Lord
Monkstown ; regarding that nobleman as the
destroyer and oppressor of the widow and
orphan, and always speaking of Fanny as
an artful jade, who repaid her sweet little
step-mother's loving confidence with the
basest ingratitude."

Indeed, he at once proceeds to air these
sentiments, for he is an impulsive as well asa
gossiping old gentleman, and naturally, as

Mr. Gifford is iieai-er to him than any one.
else at the table, it is into Walter's ears that
the strain of mingled pity and condemnation
is poured.

Monkstown's a gay fellow, always has
been a gay fellow," he begins, confidentially,
quite disregarding the way in which Mr.
Gifford visibly shrinks from the subject ;
but I thought better things of him than
this To throw over a lovely young thing
Who adored him, positively adored him. is
being really a little too lively at Monkstown's
time of life ; you agree with me, I'm
sure? "

I really can't estimate the amount of
damage done to Mrs. Templeton's ambition,
but I believe the young lady was more grateful
for the breach than she would have been
for the observance of the ]promises"' mr.
Gifford says. But the old gentleman won't
admit of this view of the case being taken
for a moment.

A man may be [forgiven for backing out
<.)f a thing of the sort if he's a contemptible

commoner ; but a man who can make a girl a
marchioness is bound to behave honourably
and keep his word, by Jove ! I pity the
sweet girl and her amiable and excellent
mother with all my heart, and when I see
Monkstown next I shall give him the cold
shoulder, by Jove ! "

Meanwhile, Ethel's amiable and excellent
mother is uttering a few well-chosen words,
that sink, as she intends they shall do, into
the minds of her hearers.

Surprised at the information? Yes, naturally,
rather surprised, but not nearly so
much so as I should have been if I had not
made a study of Fanny's character; it is in
the nature of some people to work in the
dark, as it is their delight to spring painful
surprises upon those who trust them most, and
deal most openly with them. I may feel a
little hurt at learning from a stranger that my
husband's daughter has been systematically
undermining my own dear, frank Ethel ; but
I am not surprised."

She shakes her head, and tries a tearful

smile as she says this, and the whole room
goes with her in heart, condemning Fanny
as a sly, intriguing, callous, unprincipled
schemer. But Fanny will hold a very
different place in their estimation next year,
when the slyness, intriguing callosity, and
unprincipled ness brings about the great
result, and makes her Marchioness of
Monkstown.

Mrs. Walter Gifford says a word or two
that sound pleasantly in poor Mrs. Templeton's
ears this niofht.

A better, brighter lot must be in store for
your beautiful daughter than to be an old
man's darling : Lord Monkstown, since he
can console himself, as they say he is doing,
would have satisfied neither her heart nor
her head."

The evening guests begin to assemble now,
and among them is Ethel, looking more brilliant
than ever, Walter Gifford thinks, in the
confusion that covers her for a moment like
a rosy veil, as she is greeted by and greets
his wife  her rival! Presently she hears the

on (lit which has been brought from Lamington
Hall, and it does Mr. Gifford's unruly heart
good to see the unfeigned smile of amusement
which rapidly chases away the brief look of
amazement with which she listens to it.

Poor Fanny ! fancy having to bottle up
all the joy she must be feeling, for fear of
seeming to triumph over me," she laughs out.
She has such a profound admiration and
reo-ard for Lord Monkstown, that I'm sure
she'll be very happy."

This she says to the Bishop, who has
mounted this paternal stilts, and is trying to
suppress his intense satisfaction, and to portray
dignified disapprobation at having been
consulted ,by his child on this momentous
matter. Xo one shall say that the Bishop of
Allcrton Towers is unduly elated at this unexpected
bit of worldly aggrandisement. He
calls up a sour expression, which he usually
keeps for wear when ritual in all its defiant
decency and order is observed in his presence.
But Etliel won't suffer this look to reign
loner to-niijht.

Do be glad !  as you ought to be ; it's all
clear happiness, as far as I can see, and mother
and you mustn't mar it by regretting
that some trifling routine business hasn't
been observed."

"Your counsels shall prevail With me at
least," the Bishop says, infinitely relieved at
being coerced into playing the easy part he
feels.

so HAPPY?

|i||iiHE longest and dullest evening I ever
spent in my life," Mrs. Templeton
says, throwing herself back angrily
and wearily, as the carriage containing the
Bishop, Ethel, and herself, rolls away from
Lady St. Just's door. "As for you, poor
child, you must be worn out, harassed to
death ! To meet with such perfidy is a more
distressing think' than the actual wriinii' that
is "Wrought by the perfidy."

I can't feel that there is anything for you
to be annoyed about," Ethel says, in a low
tone, hoping that the Bishop]) will not hear
what they are talking about, since the tone in
which Mrs. Templeton is evidently prepared
to discuss it is not pleasant.

And I really cauuot admit that my daughter
has been perfidious," the Bishop says, iu
a stately manner. His daughter has just
attained to a loftier position in his estimation
than she has ever held before. Is it not his
duty as man, father, and Bishop, to . defend
the means by which she has won this
position ?

Fanny is of age," he goes on, before Mrs.
Templeton's wrath will allow her to sjieak,
and I am rather inclined to respect the
modest dignity which has made her reticent
on the point of Lord Monkstown's suit, until
she  until he, I would say  ""

"Until strangers gossip) about it as an
accomplished fact, before you, her father,
who is in the densest ignorance as to what
has been taking place," Mrs. Templeton
cuts in volubly. "Fanny is of age! Yes,
we all know she has been that for the last
dozen years. But, being of age ought mn
to do away with lilac feeling, or cancel the
obligation to confide in and respect a
father."

jMi's. Templeton is rather clever at placing
ocher people's obligations and duties in conspicuous
ari-ay. To hear her on the subject
of another's misdemeanours is always edifying.
But on the present occasion the Bishop
will not permit her to be accuser, jury, and
judge, all in one.

"I have but little doubt that Fanny will
offer a perfectly satisfactory explanation of
the reserve she has observed to hae, and that
is all I can desire of her."

' 1 am quite aware that you don't desire
her to show any kind of deference or even
courtesy to me" Mrs. Templeton murmurs.
And then, as Ethel can think of nothiuo-
soothing to say at the moment to either of
them, there is silence in the carriage till it
draws up at the Palace door.

There is nine o'clock post in AUerton
Towers, and by it have come tlu"ee letters
from Lamington Hall. Two of these are addressed
to Miss Templeton, and one to Henry,
Lord Bishop of Atherton Towers, and the
latter  as well as one of those directed to

herself  Fanny sees, with a throb of ehiti<tn,
is from the Marquis of Monkslown.

His lordship's letter to her contains as
clear and distinct an offer of marriage asa
man can make, and it further prepares
her for the contents of the other letter,
by telling her that his niece, Miss Ilaw-
trey, will write by the same post, inviting
her (Fanny) to spend a fortnight at Lamington
Hall, in order that " the family " may be
properly introduced to her who will shortly
(he hopes) be the wife of the head of the
house !

Verily, Fanny is having her reward for all
the weary years of waiting for a marriageable
man to come her way. She is well supplied
now with armour and weapons to defy and
resist any attack upon her that Mrs. Templeton
may be preparing to make.

She takes the Marquis's letter to her
father, and lays it on the library table, and
then goes back and seats herself by the
drawing-room fire, and waits with ]proud composure
the arrival of the Bishop and his wife.

Her soft cheeks Hush and her eyes dance
with pleasure, as she thinks of this good
thing which she has gained for herself, this
end which she has attained in spite of all
adverse wishes.

I couldn't have imagined a better fate,
far less have desired a better one," she
tells herself, contentedly. " I like him quite
well enough for comfort, and it will not
hurt my feelings for half a minute if he likes
anyone else better than he does me by-and-bye
; and he will give me what I adore!
the money by itself would have made me
happy, but the title with it gives me the perfection
of happiness." Then for a minute or
two her mind reverts to Mr. Grove  " poor
Bernard!" she calls him  and she wonders
what he will feel when he hears of her exaltation,
and tries to fancy that this was a deeply-rooted,
though thickly-veiled attachment, and
that she behaved rather cruelly to him on
the whole.

Lie has plenty of time to conceive and rehearse
her part before the party comes home

this night, and she does it so well that
Mrs. Templeton feels that her step-daughter is
a marchioness in mind already, the moment
she looks round as they enter the room. Assuredly
the certainty of filling a lofty position
does do more for a woman's deportment than
all the drill and dancing masters in the
world.

Papa," Fanny says, rising up and approaching
the Bishop, with a display of
daughterly deference that leaves Mrs. Templeton
no room for censure. '' Papa, the post
to-night has brought me the most interesting
and important letters 1 have ever received in
my life. I hope you will be as glad as I
am when I tell you that the Marquis of
Monkstown has asked me to be his wife, and
his niece, Miss Hawtrey, has invited me to
Leamington."

' I am glad, Fanny,. very heartily glad,"
Ethel says, going forward, and kissing Fanny
with a genuineness of pleased affectionate
feeling that touches even Miss Templeton.

*' And in every respect 1 am glad, and

gratified, aud thankful," the Bishop says, with
emotion, as the future marchioness bends lier
head with dignified dutifuhiess before him ;
pride on the subject is a feeling I shall not
permit myself to entertain, it would be highly'
unbecoming in one of my cloth, but if anything
could justify or excuse my feeling it, it
would be the fact of my only child forming
an alliance with one so noble, honourable, and
distinguished, as the Marquis of Monkstown."

' Don't roll his title in your mouth in that
way'" Mrs. Templeton says, languidly ; " one
would imagine to hear you that he Alas the
only nobleman you had ever heard of; and
it's not complimentary to Fanny to let sour
satisfaction be so visibly tinged with amazement."


"I would thank you for jour consideration.
Mrs. Templeton, if your words didn't contain
a half-hidden rebuke to papa, and an open
sneer at me," Fanny says, quietly. Then she
goes on discussing her future with the Bishop
as if Mrs. Templeton didn't exist.

Every kind of mortification and annoyance

has been heaped on nie to-night,
Ethel," Mrs. Templeton says, fretfully, when
they are upstairs in Ethel's room, and
about to part for the night ; " all my plans
have failed, all my hopes are blighted, all
my fondest calculations for you are upset.
Walter Gifford has made a capital position ;
his wife is not only admitted into but
routed in the best society, and Fanny
Templeton wins the high stakes which iron
have lost ; poor, out-witted, successfully
rivalled by a girl I despised when 1 married
her father, and with no prospect of getting
you off my hands, what is to become
of me ? "

"I'm sure the Bishop will never grudge
nu' a home, and 111 try to make that home
a happy home for you. mother dear," Ethel
says, soothingly and brightly, ignoring all
things not absolutely kind in Mrs. Templeton's
speech.

Walter Gifford has a surprise as well as the
Bishop this night, but Walter's is of a painful
and alarming nature. His wife has been very

silent and very pale, he has remained, at
intervals during the evening, and this silence
and pallor he has wrongly attributed to " unworthy
jealousy " of Ethel. Accordingly, he
has not commented on it, but has rather
wrapped himself up in a cloak of indifference.


But when they reach their own house, and
Mabel comes as usual to the door to receive
them, letting out as she opens it a flood
of light from the comfortable, encouraging-looking
hall, Walter sees that Lily can hardly
walk, and that there is a bluish tinge round
her mouth, and a pathetic look in her face
that he has never seen before.

Are you not feeling well, dearest ? " he
asks, in real alarm, and for a moment her
heart beats so quickly, in response to the
coveted words of tenderness, that the warm
blood surges up into her face, giving it the
appearance of health again.

Better now, dear," she says, buoyantly ;
" but I can't tell why I have been shivering
and half faint all the evening ; the rooms

were warm, I heard the others say, but my
hands and feet are like this " (she puts a
hand of ice into Walter's as she speaks), " and
there's a mist before my eyes."

She begins her sentence blithely enough,
but her last words come out laughingly.
They are in the hall now, which is Hooded
with light from both the lamp and the bonnie
blazing wood fire which burns on the hearth,
and Walter sees the colour recede from
her face, leaving that ominous pallor, and
more ominous blue tinge more marked than
before.

The hall is furnished as a hall should be.
It is full of comfort, and encouragement
and promise. A couple of large fat sofas
stand, one conveniently near to the big bay
window for summer use, the other by the side
of the hearth. A long low oak table stands
hard by the fireside sofa. In the bay window
a brown flower-stand holds as many pots
of cyclamen, camellias, tulips, lilies of the
valley, Russian violets, ferns, and spring's
fairest harbinger, snowdrops, as can be

Avedo-pc] tifrlitlv ill together. Back in a
shadier place, a .similar stand is verdant
with many varieties of fern. Over the high
mantel-piece there is a trophy in harmoniously
coloured Oriental ware. A dark blue
drutrs'et covers the floor, and . over this are
thrown two or three Persian rugs, and two
or three tiger-skins. All round the walls
instead of pegs for the display of the family's
worst hats, coats, and waterproofs (which
really are not interesting objects of study to
visitor's, though, as a rule, they are the only
things offered to the visitors' view on
their wa' towards the habitable part of a
house), are polished antlers, and embossed
brass salvers, and dishes. Everything is
bright, agreeable to look at, and suggestive
of the rest of the house, so that Lily
pausing in it for a minute or two, as she
hangs over the rounded end of the sofa and
gazes apparently into the ruddy depths of
the leaping fire, is not an extraordinary
thing.

But it is extraordinary that she should

be still in the same attitude of abstract iou
when Walter looks up at her again, after
he has enhanced over the contents of two or
three letters which were awaiting him.

And why does Mabel look at him in
quick alarm, . and run to Lily's side, crying
out something  "what" she hardly knows 
and he does not hear at all? And when
he follows Mabel with a spring, wliy does
he clasp Lily's form so vehemently to this
heart, crying out as he does so, ''My God.
forgive me ! "

Yes! it is Lily's "form" only which is
left for him to clasp now, for Lily's "soul
has been called home, and Lily's heart
(which loved him so) has ceased to beat.

It savours of the morbid (according to the
mind, at least, of the compiler of these
chronicles) to go into the details which surround
such an event. In real life they must
be game into, however heart-tearing they
are ; but in fiction they may be passed
over, not carelessly, but reverently.

The sudden death of a woman so vounfr,

apparently happy and healthy, and so beautiful
and popular as Mrs. Walter Gifford,
naturally causes intense sympathetic excitement
in and around Atherton Towers.
There is not a human being who knows him
who does not deeply pity the bereft husband,
who is so crushed down by grief that for
many days poor Mabel is compelled to cease,
from her wailing for her idolised sister-in-law,
in order that she may aid in fanning
Walter's feeble spark of life back into a
flame.

It is not grief only which threatens to
destroy Walter Gifford. It is agony and
remorse !

He cannot bring himself to take a medical
view of a common case of heart disease,
now that the case is that of his dead wife.
He cannot make her dead, from purely
physical causes, in his own heart, though
his reason and knowledge tells him that
nothing  skill, kindness, the most passionate
love, and the most perfect contentment
could have prolonged Lily's life. He

can only feel agony, as he reflects on
the briefness of it all, and remorse as he
recalls every touch of indifference that he
has manifested towards her by word or
deed. Thank heaven for this, that he has
only indifference, not unkindness, to repent
him of. But, ah ! how keenly he feels now
how sharply his indifference must have
cut.

He can't help remembering all the time
Mabel babbles on about " their perfect happiness
and mutual love," how little real
happiness either of them knew in their
wedded life, and how unequally divided was
the love. He can't help remembering how
thoroughly Lily satisfied every taste of his,
however fastidious that taste might be,
and how little she appealed to his heart,
though hers was all his own. There is
something ghastly to him in this dispensation
which has removed her from his side
in life, remembering all these things as he
does, and feeling as he does about them !
And all the while the world he lives in

sympathises with him to the best of its ability,
as with one who is utterly bereft, and for
whom all light is gone out.

Perhaps the one who sympathises with
him most deeply, is the one who has the
best understanding of his case. Ethel
Heatherley really mourns for what she knows
he must be suffering. " If he had only
learnt to love her dearly before she died,
it would have been better for him and
for her," the girl tells herself, when the
drear tale is told in the Palace, of that
scene in the surgeon's hall. As it is, Ethel
knows that a worm that w411 never die,
will always be gnawing at the foundation of
the perfect fabric of happiness, which may,
by-and-bye, be built up for Walter and
herself.

For Ethel does not ignore probabilities, and
she recognises that it is in the order of what
is fittest and best, that Walter and she shall
be man and wife in the days to come, when
this great bitterness is overcast.

In the interim, things go on with other

o2

people very much as they have gone
before, and will go on again. The popular
vouncr surgeon  Mr. Walter Gifford 
finds himself abruptly more popular than
ever, and both interesting young widowhood,
and aging maidenhood in Atherton
Towers, call him in about minor maladies
with a frequency that is as beneficial to his
purse as it is injurious to his temper.

But Ethel Heatherley" never makes a sign
that she snows her old lover is in sore distress.
Mrs. Templeton sends him a letter of
tenderest condolence (in which Ethel has
sternly forbidden her name to be used), and
with her letter comes a magnificently made
wreath of magnificent hot-house flowers.
But there is not a word, not a bud from
Ethel!

Still, when week after week, day by day,
the young widower finds his young wife's
grave covered with wreaths and bouquets
of lilies of the valley, he feels that Ethel
Heatherley has not forgotten him in his
time of tribulation.

Nor has she done so, for with every hly she
lays on Lily's grave, she leaves a prayer for
the living husband as well as for the dead
Avise !

Fanny has gone to Lamington to be made
much of by the family, as it is seemly the
future Marchioness of Monkstown should be.
She goes with all her war-paint on, lovely
new dresses, pearls (which her step-mother
has found it convenient to let her have
for a " consideration," and which Fanny
refers to as " heirlooms," from this time
forth), and the most delicate complexion
that Nature ever allowed to be supplemented
by art.

Altogether she feels the success she is, when
she stands forth in her seal and otter skins,
and purple velvet, and hears herself hailed
in the softly-lighted terra-cotta drawing-room
at Lamington Hall, as the Marquis of Monks-town's
bride-elect.

The Marquis, and his brother-in-law, Sir
John Hawtrey, are both well disposed to do
her fitting homage. But Miss Hawtrey stands

a little aloof, and says presently to her
cousin 

Ken, I don't like her ; uncle will be wax
in her hands, and she'll mould him into very
disagreeable forms."

And you'll be out of the way of seeing
them for one"' Kenmare laughs. "Grove is
here too often for her not to see that. I
shall often winter ' with my cousins, in South
Africa ; ' and as for me, while I live I'm the
eldest son, you see, and if I die !  well, bless
her son if she has one, and make him more
like his father than his mother."

I wish it had been Ethel Heatherley who
had come to this distinction," Caroline says,
pursing her lips up with propriety at the mention
of the children now unborn. But Ken-mare
has still enough of the original Marcus
Boyne about him not to respond to this
wish.

It is altogether beautiful in its smoothness
and absence of fussiness the way in which Miss
Templeton arrives and is received leamington
Hall. It is a fact that the bride-elect would

have permitted a little more demonstration in
her own honour, but this being lacking, nothing
else is wanting,

I am glad to be here in time to bid you
welcome," Miss Hawtrey says, jumping out of
her [own unostentatious little pony-trap, as
the big landau containing Miss Templeton
comes up with many a prance and scuffle to
the door.

And the future marchioness descends graciously,
and tries to forget that she has been
expecting a mounted tenantry to meet her,
and a band to play her in.

She is so much disappointed at the informal
manner of her reception that she cannot
refrain from saying  

I should be inclined to think I had come
the wrong day, if the carriage had not been
sent to meet me."

Oh ! dear, no ! the train is rather late,
that is all. Uncle Monkstown told me to
expect you half-an-hour ago."

"I hope that your uncle has not been
more impatient for my arrival than you, my

hostess, have ; if he has, I, as your guest,
shall feel quite hurt."

She says this with such a visible air of condescension,
as if she felt herself to be really
very good indeed, thus to consider and put
herself upon terms of equality with a mere
Miss Hawtrey, who is not going to be a marchioness,
that Caroline is half embarrassed
and half amused.

My dear Miss Templeton, my uncle's
friends command a welcome here at all times ;
how much more then the lady who is to be his
wife. But he wished your reception to be
quiet and informal, as the announcement of
the engagement has not been made public
yet."

I am adverse to demonstrations and
parade of any kind," Fanny says, " but I
know what is due to him !  and due tome
! "

She does know what is due to her, and in
the course of the next few days she has that
due paid with a vengeance. There is about
Miss Templeton no feeble temporising sentiment.

What she will, that she will ! And,
somehow or other, it is done !

The Marquis of Monkstown has never been
put through his paces properly before now.
But now he trots and caprioles just exactly
as the fair directress of his future indicates
that he shall trot and capriole. He is made
to bestow himself  or rather to bestow his
money more abundantly . then he has ever
done. " What you must do," are words
that soon come to have an unholy ring
in his ears. For Fanny has learnt her
pretty pleasant lesson well, and it is nice
for her to have to reckon up all the heavy
hostages she owes to fortune. Nice, very
nice, to feel that she is in duty bound to
patronise every form of gaiety which may
obtain for the next twelvemonths in that
Connaught district, in which her husband's
estates are situated. Nice, very nice, to feel
that she will be ably supported whatever
her made expenditure. Above all, nice to
feel that whatever she does is above cavil
or complaint from the home party.

Her term of trial at Lamington Hall is
made very easy to her. When once Caroline
Hawtrey accepts as a fact this misadventure,
that she should have come at all, the rest
is easy.

For Fanny is suavity itself, and Miss
Hawtrey knows how to knock under to the
inevitable.

Lord Monkstown, dignified as he is, strikes
the casual observer rather humorously now
and again. He is so direful afraid that the
mere spectator may make the mistake of
thinking his blooming bride marries him for
what he has got  not for what he is!

It is on his honour now that this woman,
whom he is winning without giving himself the
trouble of wooing her, shall be very fond of
him and show her fondness. It is also on his
honour that he shall deserve that she does this.
He is too big and grand a man, in every way,
to desire to get all and give nothing. Accordingly,
he "hops about," as Fanny calls it,
and is too ready and alert altogether for his
position.

She's the most detestable woman I ever
saw in my life," Caroline Hawtrey says to
her father and Lord Kenmare, when they
three are discussing the bride-elect on the
night after her arrival at Lamington Hall.
She hasn't done a single wrong or silly
thing since she came into the house, and
for all that she's detestable."

She has very clear skin," Sir John says,
meditatively ; and Lord Kenmare adds 

And she'll take care the governor doesn't
go off romantically loafing after any inferior
cattle that may low at him ; but she's an
awful young woman in her rectitude, and I
hope he will be happy with her."

Kenmare says this to his uncle. Sir John
Hawtrey, and Sir John shakes his head
solemnly, in response, but at the same time
he is thinking what " a deuced lucky fellow
Monkstown is to get such a fine woman ! "

"An old English baronetcy is worth that
Irish marquisate," he tells himself, thoughtfully
; and when Fanny does herself justice,
in her manner of taking leave of everybody

for the night, Sir John half determines
to run a tilt with his brother-in-law about
her.

But after-reflection decides him that she is
one of those good things which are better left
alone ! And once having come to this conclusion,
he gives the reins to his " pity " for
Lord Monkstown !

Mm

"since LAST WE MET, I  "

Fanny has been several days at Lamington
Hall, and oddly enough, from
some freak of chance, she has never
heard Mr. Grove's name mentioned, nor
does she know that he is a frequent and
a favourite guest.

It is, therefore, a great surprise to her one
day, on coming in with Lord Monkstown from
a morning stroll in the grounds, to find
Mr. Grove at the luncheon table, with a
thoroughly at-home look about him, as if he
had often occupied that seat next to Miss
Hawtrey before.

Miss Templeton's breath rarely fails her
from astonishment, but on this occasion it
does. It is with almost a pant that she
replies to his hearty greeting.

My call is on you, to-day," he says,

presently ; and then he adds, " I have been
hoping to come and offer you my heartiest
congratulations every day since I heard of
your arrival, but now, as the time draws
near, I find I have such a multiplicity of
things to do."

As the time draws near for what ? " she
asks. "Are you still dreaming of that South
African archdeaconry  or whatever it is?
You had far better be contented to work
on with papa till a living falls vacant, than
go away into solitude and poverty."

Mr. Grove looks at Miss Hawtrey with a
flash of fun in his eyes as he replies:

I don't think I have any fear about either
the solitude or the poverty; my only qualm
is that the place is one charged with responsibilities,
and that I may fail in filling it well."

You won't fail, Bernard," Miss Hawtrey
says, quietly, and at this mention of his
christian name, Fanny nearly tumbles off
her chair.

Are you very intimate with Mr. Grove ? "
she says to Caroline Hawtrey, as they saunter

through one of the conservatories after
luncheon, waiting for the carriage which is
presently to convey the quartette  Miss Haw-they
and Fanny, Lord Monkstown and
Bernard Grove  to a neighbouring town on
a shopping expedition.

Yes, very," Caroline says, laconically.

I am glad to hear it, " Miss Templeton
says, mounting her favourite hobby, pomposity,
with celerity ; " papa and I both think him a
most deserving young man ; the position of
Bishop's chaplain, of course, is one that might
have inflated him, that would have inflated
many men ; but he has such a well-balanced
mind. I really am quite sorry to hear of his
going to South Africa."

His mind will keep its balance there as
well as here, I hope."

If he only had patience, I am sure papa
or Lord Monkstown would do something for
him, " Fanny goes on, patronisingly ; " out
there he will be out of the way of preferment,
and I fear very much he will end his
days in poverty and obscurity."

"At any rate you will be glad to hear
that he won't pass them in utter solitude. I
shall be with him."

You ! "

Fanny's surprise is so great, that she plucks
a flower spasmodically, and pulls over a pot
in doing it.

Yes ! why, does the news excite you so ? "
Caroline says, calmly.

I never knew  I have never heard of his
being a friend of yours till to-day, and
now, to hear that you are going to marry
him and go into savagery with him, is
startling."

It's only been settled to-day that I am todo
so," Miss Hawtrey says ; " and as for its
being savagery, you're mistaken about that.
There will be quite enough civilisation forme,
and of a healthier kind than I shall
leave behind me."

K I had known that you were going
to marry him, I wouldn't have offered him
patronage in the way I did," Fanny says,
awkwardly.

Why not ? "

Well, you see, I spoke on the assumption
that he was poor ; but, of course, if he marries
you he will be rich, and might naturally
think my manner of offering him papa's help
impertinent."

If it were impertinent, his being a pauper
or a man of wealth could make no difference,
the impertinence was there."

Luckily the carriage comes to the door
at this juncture, and the two ladies sheathe
swords, and look for their respective escorts.

Bernard," Miss Hawtrey says to her
lover, as they are having a secluded chat
over " five-o'clock " in Caroline's own boudoir,
that Miss Templeton is a most demoralising
woman; she has actually made me feel
curious, a thing I never was guilty of being
in my life before ; did you ever make love
to her?"

Yes, to a certain extent."

Did you ever wish to marry her ? "

I would certainly have married her once
upon a time."

VOL. II. p

And wasn't she in love with you in
return ? "

No."

How was that ? "

"Because she has always been desperately
in love with another person."

And that person is ? "

Herself."

"I thought so," Miss Hawtrey says, with
an air of satisfaction ; " my curiosity is quite
appeased ; I have no more questions to
ask about her."

About the same time, Fanny, sipping her
tea in the drawing-room, says to Lord
Monkstown :

I can't tell you how surprised I was to
meet Mr, Grove here in the first instance, and
to hear of his being engaged to your niece in
the second ; being your niece she ought to
make a much better match."

Oh ! I don't know ; Grove's an excellent
fellow, and Caroline has money enough of
her own."

"But!  think of his position! "

My dear girl, his position is that of a
gentleman, and may be identical with that
held by your father by-and-bye."

It's not the match I can feel satisfied atour
niece making," Fanny says, boldly.

One would imagine you had a pique
against Grove," Lord Monkstown says, jocularly
; " is it so, Fanny ? Did he ever cast
sheep's eyes at his Bishop's daughter ? "

He was presumptuous enough to do
so," Fanny says, treading down conscience
ruthlessly.

And you rebuffed him ? "

Need you ask ? Should I be . likely to
encourage unwarrantable pretensions ; now
I'm going up to my room ; I shall wear my
emeralds to-night ; all my other jewellery
gets neglected now for the sake of your

gift."

She clasps her hands over his shoulder and
stands on tip-toe to kiss his cheek, and then
retreats with a shy lingering movement that
is not lost upon him.

How the girl loves me," he tells himself,

pand

how prettily she shows it. Poor Grove!
it is rather hard on him to meet her hereunder
these circumstances. Caroline is completely
cast into the shade by my Fanny ;
but there's partial consolation for him in the
money. Poor Grove, gentlemanly fellow too ;
but Fanny's a remarkably superior woman,
and no common place character would suit
her."

Fanny wears the emeralds this night as she
has promised ; wears them with a deep pink
silk. The emeralds are so large, and are
distributed over so much of her person, that
she resembles a rose-bush where flowers are
in the majority and leaves are few. The
emeralds are Lord Monkstown's gift, and are
set in the form of shamrocks. They fortunately
afford subject matter of conversation,
and set Lord Monkstown off on a favourite
national theme.

The chosen leaf of bard and chief,
Old Erin's native shamrock"'

he quotes, and then Mr. Grove reminds
Fanny that she used once upon a time to

sing that song, and asks her will she sight
now?

On Lord Monkstowu backing up this request
she half consents, but as Lord Monks-town
opens the piano, she says 

Caroline, will you accompany me ? 1
can't accompany myself."

Let me do it as of old," Mr. Grove says
at once, and Fanny feels Lord Monkstown's
eyes level themselves at her with a malicious
glance.

She sings false, stops and begins again,
only to break down a second time. Seeing
him at the piano in the old way that had
been a daily habit at the Palace ; looking
down on his handsome head, and contrasting
his well-favoured youth with Lord
Monkstown's maturity, is too much for even
her cold nature to stand unmoved. As
they all look at her in amazed enquiry,
the tears gush out of her eyes, and hopeless
of concealing her agitation, she turns
and rushes out of the room.

Oh, oh ! my lady ! the wind sets in that

quarter, does it ? " Lord Monkstown thinks,
and it flashes into his mind for the first
time that his Fanny's heart is less in the
matter of her marriage than her ambition.

Miss Templeton is not emotional as a
rule?" Caroline says, looking inquiringly at
Mr. Grove.

"No, she's not," he says, frankly; " but that
song happens to be one she used to sing very
often to her father; she's a very devoted
daughter, you, know," he goes on amiably in
explanation to Lord Monkstown, " and since
the Bishop married again, things haven't been
so happy as they were before."

Good Mr. Grove, real knight of honour and
honesty that he is, he will not suffer a passing
breath to dim the brightness of a woman's
pride for a moment if he can help it.

"So," the old Marquis thinks, "the love
was more on her side than on his, that's
evident ; not that I care which way it was,
only Grove is a splendid fellow, and Caroline
has won a prize."

Would you like the two weddings to take

place the same day at the same church ? "
Lord Monkstown asks Fanny the next morning,
watching her narrowly.

"What two weddings?" she asks, nervously,
"ours and Caroline's? She will be married
here, surely, at Lamington ; papa would feel
it deeply if I were married anywhere but in
his own cathedral," she says, with trembling
lips. Entirely satisfied as she is with her own
lot, the thought of Bernard Grove standing at
the altar with another woman is not pleasant
to her.

One day in spring, just as the hedges
about Atherton Towers begin to be gay
with primroses and violets, Ethel Heatherley
goes out into one of the lanes on a wildflower
gathering expedition. A year ago
she had walked along this very lane with
Walter Gifford on the day of their engagement,
a happy-hearted, proud young betrothed.


Only a year ago ! "  she stands still,
struck almost as if with a blow by the
thought. Only a year ago, and so many

things have happened in these twelvemonths
: first the rupture with Walter, then
her mother's marriage, her own engagement
to Lord Monkstown and its breach.

All these things within the compass of
one year," she says aloud. " What will the
next bring me, I wonder ? "

As if in answer to this question she sees
Walter Gifford riding down the lane.

A few moments more and he jumps from
his horse and is pressing her hand heartily.

Since last we met I " his voice fails

him, and the ready tears run down Ethel's
cheeks. How he longs to kiss them away.

Oh ! Walter, don't try to speak of it yet
to me ; I shall only cry and upset you."

He makes an effort and controls himself.
After a minute's silence, he says : 

I knew we should meet some day soon.
Let me carry your basket as I did in this very
place last year."

She renders the basket up to him gladly.

That means that you are going to stay,
here with me a little time."

"As long as you'll let me, Ethel."
"No patients claiming you this afternoon?"
None ! I'm quite a free man."
There is a significance in the words that
brings the colour to her face, but she bends
down over the primroses and recovers herself.


"Is Mrs. Templeton quite well?"
"Yes, mother's well, Int not very happy, I'm
afraid ; our not being so well off as we were
weighs on her mind, I'm afraid. Just now she's
extra low-spirited because Fanny is going to
be married, and poor mother can't get over
her annoyance at my not becoming the Marchioness
of MonkstoAvn. Still, she takes an
interest in the preparations, she is so good-natured,
you know ; she is making designs foi'
the decoration of all the reception rooms ;
even Fanny allows that things wouldn't be
half as nice as the' will be if it Avere not for
mother's taste  the little note-room to the
drawing-room is to be done entirely with
primroses and blue violets  masses of them 
all round the wall."

Would Mrs. Templeton see me one day,
soon, if I called at the Palace ? "

/ would."

I must see your mother, too, Ethel dear,"
he whispers, and so without another word
being said these two feel that they have given
themselves to each other acrain.

END OF VOL. II.

OF THE

U N I Verity

Of ILLINOIS


C892a

v.3

Jl ITiovel.

By ANNIE THOMAS

(Mrs. Peter Clip),
author of "denis donne," "played out," "eyre of benton," etc

IN THREE VOL Ime 8
VOL. III.

LONDON :
TIXSLEY BROTHERS, 8, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.

1882.
[All Bights Reserved']

v,3

CONTENTS

CHAP. AGE

I.  Mrs. Templeton's Consistency . i

II.  "A Tyrant and a Slave" i

III. " Help Fanny, Mother " o

IV.  Some are Married ! Some are Dead ! . . . 58

V.  Mrs. Templeton Dreads a Nightmare . . . 77

VI.  A Curious Mixture 97

VII.  Miss Gifford's Economies . . . .116

VIII.  Cook in Revolt 135

IX.  Domestic Counsel . . . . . .-152

X.  A New Departure . . . . . . . 170

XI.  A Star of Strength . . . . . .187

CHAPTEE I.

.AIRS. TEMPLETON'S CONSISTENCY.

:0 do Mrs. Templet on justice, when
once she undertakes to do anything
she does it very thoroughly. This
especially applies to anything of an ornamental
or decorative character, for many of
the fair dame's faults are partially compensated
for by her innate and intense love of
beauty.

So now that her step-daughter's marriage
with the Marquis of Monkstown is inevitable
and soon to be accomplished, Mrs. Templeton
puts aside her altogether abnormal depression
and carelessness about "how things are going,"
and sets herself to work with a right
good will to put the fairest aspect upon
everything.

VOL. III. B

Indeed her impulses in this direction are so
strong, that she holds  not perhaps quite an
olive branch," but unquestionably an " olive
twig"  out to Fanny, in the form of an offer
to superintend the selection of that young
lady's trousseau. But Fanny, who is positively
twitching with impatience to show and assert
her independence of, and superiority to, people
in general, and Mrs. Templeton in particular,
rejects the offer with contumely, and quotes
a noble and antique aunt of Lord Monks-town's
as being ready and willing to take
the trouble of ordering all the delicate
and dainty linen off her hands.

44 She knows the right places to go to, I
trust?" Mrs. Templeton says, for she has a
good deal of real feeling about rare embroidery
and laces, and fine linen, and Fanny
replies :

44 She will get everything from Belfast. I
have commissioned her to patronise native
industry."

44 My dear Fanny, you are doing it very
well," Mrs. Templeton says, laughingly ; 44 get

your things from Belfast by all means, but
command me about such minor matters as
marking and numbering."

And somehow or other it does come about
that Fanny is glad to come to her step-mother
for " help about trifles," as she phrases it,
and Mrs. Templeton accords this aid very
gladly.

It is just now that the question of decorating
the Palace prettily and fittingly
arises, and Mrs. Templeton comes very graciously
to the fore at once.

Ethel and I will literally ' broider your
path to the altar if you will let us," she says
to Fanny and writes to Lord Monks town, and
she means what she says. She will really
take pleasure in doing her best to make
flowers say and look all that is kindest and
prettiest to his lordship and his bride on
the momentous occasion,

It is to her credit that she does desire
this : foolish as she has been, extravagant,
thoughtless, what you will ! she has a love of
beauty, and she does desire to make her love

B 2

of beauty and her power of producing beauty,
tend to the enrichment and adornment
of her step-child's nuptials. No paid florist
ever worked harder than Mrs. Templeton
does on the day preceding the wedding.
She is up before the earliest cock crows under
a sense of duty in Atherton Towers. Bouquets,
crowns, and wreaths grow under her
hands in a magical manner.

Fanny, coming down in a comfortable,
common place scarlet dressing gown, looks
altogether out of place, as Mrs. Templeton
advances to meet her in a low-toned olive-green
robe rippled over with Valenciennes.

I am doing the ante-room in primroses
and young fern fronds," Mrs. Templeton says,
brightly; " and do let me beseech you not to
put yourself in that room till you have taken
off that appalling red thing."

I have not made up my mind whether or
not I give in my adhesion to the ' high art '
foible, so don't condemn my bit of real colour
till you know whether I choose to make it
the fashion or not," Fanny says, judicially,

and Mrs. Templeton waves her delicate hands
deprecatingly, and says : 

My dear Fanny, potent as your sway will
be in Fashion's gay mart after tomorrow
morning, I doubt if even you will make
scarlet tolerated ; no, no ; believe me, terra-cotta
in all its shades has reigned too long
for those who have been educated up to it
to make a retrograde movement in favour
of crude scarlet."

"I intend to bring emerald green into
vogue," Fanny says, with a superb sense of
her own quickly-coming importance ; " emerald
green, and Limerick lace, and Belfast
linen and poplin ; in fact, I mean to revive
the national industries of the country of my
adoption, and I mean to be known as a resident
Irish marchioness. I have a scheme
for reconstructing Dublin society, modelled
on, but not servilely copied from, that of
London and Paris ; mere professional people
have had too much status in Dublin society
for a long time, I hear ; but I mean to make
the ' upper ten ' of Dublin, out of a real

aristocracy, that will not only belong to,
but extend considerably beyond, the castle
circle."

Mrs. Templeton listens with passive endurance
while her step-daughter is expounding
her intentions. When Fanny has finished, Mrs.
Templeton heaves a sigh that indicates sadness,
and says, as her eyes travel slowly over
the breadth and length of Fanny's petite
figure.

Not really emerald green and Limerick
lace ? I saw the combination once on the
person of a tall portly lady, and she reminded
me of a lawn, with beds and bordering of
snow-drops. The idea is pretty, but the effect
was  oh ! painful to the last degree ! Don't
encourage your fellow creatures to disfigure 
to destroy themselves in such a way ; and don't
shock Monkstown (who came to an understanding
of better things while Ethel was
engaged to him) by such an exhibition of
ghastly bad taste on your own person."

"You have the graceful art of clothing the
best advice in the most disagreeable garments ;

but as I am neither very tall nor very portly,
I don't in the least fear that I shall resemble
a lawn bordered with snowdrops, even if I do
rashly adventure into the emerald green and
magnificent lace of my adopted country"'

No ; you will look like a little grass-plot
only : and don't make the mistake of talking
about your adopted country. Princesses use
the phrase when they go into other lands
to become queens or empresses, when they're
tired to death by their journey and are compelled
to return thanks to adulatory addresses.
But a beneficent Providence has not laid this
unpleasant onus on you ; you're not a princess
and you're not going to be a queen ! You
may dare to be a little original if you
can."

All the time Mrs. Templeton is saying
this her skilful slender hands are arranging
flowers so tastefully and well, that Fanny, who
wishes everything to look beautiful tomorrow
morning, curbs the inclination she has to be
insolent and overbearing in return. But she
contemplates taking a dire revenge, through

Ethel, by-and-bye. Never shall Ethel  the
daughter for whom Mrs. Temple ton is so ambitious
 benefit in any way by her (Fanny's)
illustrious influence in the great world in
which she promises herself to play so prominent
and omnipotent a part. It is soothing
and delightful to her feelings to register this
resolve, as a vow almost, little deeming that
Mrs. Templeton does not expect anything
more amiable from her, or that Ethel has
made other and happier arrangements for
herself.

Mrs. Templeton has just completed the
exquisitely fanciful adornment of the anteroom
when a visitor is announced for her,
whose name at one time she would not
have permitted to be uttered in the Palace
precincts.

This visitor is none other than Mr. Gilford,
and as soon as she sees him her prophetic
soul tells her why he has come.

The manner of her reception of him is
simply perfect, for it is just sufficiently
gracefully cordial for him to feel that he

is not unwelcome as a mere guest, while
it does not give him the faintest indication
from which he may hazard a guess as to
how she will receive him as a suitor, again,
for Ethel's hand.

Not that he has any fear of counter influence
prevailing against him in the long
run with Ethel, for Ethel has re-pledged
herself to him with a force and fervour
that no maternal battering-ram will have
the power to shatter. But still he knows
that in the event of Mrs. Templeton opposing
his marriage with her daughter, Ethel,
though she will never give him up, will
defer to her mother as to time, and, perhaps,
keep him in suspense for years. Accordingly,
as this possibility is in the balance,
he feels uncertain, and uncertainty makes
him nervous.

It is only a just tribute to her, Mrs.
Templeton feels, that he should be a little
nervous, though in reality she is far more
favourably disposed towards his pretensions
to Ethel than he has any idea of. At the

same time, though she regards him tolerantly
in secret, as Ethel's future husband,
she feels it only fitting that he should experience
sensations of trepidation, and have
a qualm or two about his reception.

You see," she says, pointing to a trophy
of rare white hot-householders that she has
effectively grouped on a table that is a
mirror, in which every drooping bud and
bit of foliage is repeated, " you see how
delightfully busy I am to-day. I ought to
have said c not at home,' but I couldn't
bring my conscience to allow me to utter
an interdict against you. To-morrow is my
daughter's wedding-day, as, I suppose, you
have heard  quickly as it has all been
arranged ? ' : .

She words her phrase purposely in such
a way as to give him a start, and she
effects her object,' though his reason tells
him that it can't be Ethel, from whom he
parted only the day before yesterday in
perfect faith.

Not your daughter s wedding-day  you

can't mean Ethel's," he stammers, as full of
embarrassment as if, instead of being a man
in an established and good position, who
has gone through the solidifying process of
married life, he was a mere boy in the
jelly stage of calf-love.

Not Ethel, no ; I am speaking of my
other daughter, Miss Templeton, the one
who has so effectually succeeded poor
Ethel in Lord Monkstown's affections," the
unsophisticated and ingenuous little lady
says, with as innocent an air of putting
the case fairly as it is, as if she was not
well aware the whole time that Walter knows
that Ethel rejoices in being so succeeded.

/ have reason to bless Miss Templeton
for the successful rivalry, and I have come
to-day to tell you so, Mrs. Templeton," he
says, as boldly as it is possible for a man
to speak under such circumstances  circumstances
which, if not entirely a business
arrangement between the two matris
parties, must always
be rather confusing.

You have reason to bless Miss Templeton
for removing herself from ours into a
higher sphere. Has she been dangerous
to your peace of mind all this while that
she has been acting like balm on Lord
Monkstown's feelings ? ' : Mrs. Temple ton
asked, with an amount of gentle raillery that,
considering all he knows that she knows,
strikes Walter as being singularly out of
place.

You know very well that the reason
you suggest is ridiculous " (what a Goth he
is, the lady thinks) ; " my reason for blessing
Miss Templeton for marrying that
old fop is, that it removes all temptation
from Ethel's path to sacrifice herself for you,
to rank, and, what you value next to rank,
wealth.

"We all do that, my dear, good Mr.
Gifford. Think for a moment, and you'll
admit that we all do that ; some, to be
sure, put wealth first. Now, I frankly admits
I do not. Bank, family, place, are all of
much more importance to me than wealth.

For example  I will be as candid as ever
you can desire  I would rather see ray
daughter the wife of a man of long and
high lineage, who was possessed of wealth
enough to keep up his position properly,
than I would see her the wife of a man
who dates from himself, or his father at the
most, however vast that man's wealth might
be."

I am the happy man, then," Walter says,
smiling, in spite of himself, at the lady's
obvious tactics ; " for it is currently reported
that my grandfather, to whose existence I
can testify, had one to whom he could
testify ; and, in addition to not being an
absolute mushroom, I am in a good position,
and can keep it up properly ; therefore,
under these circumstances, I feel justified in
asking you to give me Ethel  the wife you
promised me so long ago."

Since which " Mrs. Templeton begins,

then hesitates, and he strikes in :

Since which both she and I have been
false to our betrothal vow, through no fault

of our own, but through the, perhaps, well-meant
machinations of others; this interim,
which I deeply regret, ,is over  past, and
once more I ask you to give me your
daughter, and warn you never to interfere
with us again."

You ' warn ' me now, you will threaten
me if I ever become your mother-in-law,"
she says, playfully ; but, for all the playfulness,
she does not like the things he is
saying to her.

No, madam," he replies, laughing ; " for
when you do me the honour to become my
mother-in-law, I shall have unlimited sway
over my wife, and shall no longer have to
fear your adverse influence."

You must excuse and forgive a little natural
feeling, Walter," Mrs. Templeton says,
with a few tears in her voice  she would put
them into her eyes instead if the atmosphere
were balmier and there was no fear of her
nose growing red under the display of maternal
devotion ; as it is, this spring day, though
bright, is very chilly, and there is a good

deal of keenness in the east wind Which is
whistling outside the house. Consequently,
the tears are " expressed ! " rather than shed,
and the effect is undeniably as good, if not
better.

Walter's single word, " Certainly ! " uttered
with a fair amount of sympathetic vehemence,
contains as much forgiveness as many a more
garrulously-given man could throw into half-a-dozen
sentences .

44 Yes," she resumes, abstractedly, 44 you
must, and do, and will forgive it ; you will
always remember that I cannot forget what a
pinnacle Ethel stood on ; what a place she
seemed sure of attaining. Think how near
she was to a niche next the highest in the
land ! Think that it is only her own wayward
fancy which came between her being merely
what she is, or the Marchioness of Monks-town
! "

44 And, on my side, I will ask you to remember
that 4 your other daughter,' as you
called her when I came in, now occupies the
position you prized so highly for Ethel.

Think of how Miss Templeton will appreciate
it all ! Be satisfied, and, for Heaven's sake,
leave Ethel and me alone in our humility
and happy obscurity."

That a child of mine, who could shine a
star of the first magnitude in our social solar
system, should be contented with ' happy obscurity,'
is a mystery to me."

"So it is to me  on the rare occasions of
my remembering that she is your child ; but
as it is, so it is. Mrs. Templeton, I do not
plead to you as a man who is on his probation
with fortune must, or should, plead.
That I did formerly, and though you feigned
to favour me, it was to my disadvantage that I
stood revealed in your eyes, a struggling man
from the first. Everything is changed since
then. I am now, through a stroke of fate
that was bitterly hard to bear at the time, a
free and a rich man  as riches are computed
in the class to which we belong Give your
free consent, un weakened by any slurring
asides, to my marriage with Ethel ; be your
best-self, and as there is a God above us,

as you study and further Ethel's happiness,
so will I study and further yours."

She is touched at last, as he thus indicates
that if she is in difficulties he will help her
out of them. She can bear to see the Bishop
fussing and fuming over old unpaid bills, but
the means he has taken to prevent her running
up fresh ones is detrimental to her peace
of mind. An edict has gone forth from the
Palace that " Nothing is to be supplied on
credit to any member of the Palace household."
And as Mrs. Templeton does not desire
to get a rebuff over an Atherton-Towers
counter, she does not apply for credit ; and
having no ready-money to spend on the ideal
wants which her ever active brain creates,
she goes without numberless things for
which she yearns, and is proportionately discontented.


No consideration of that kind  no
thought of myself would weigh with me,"
she says, with that bewitchingly artless air of
meaning " it, which she has under-studied
from a famous histrionic. Then she goes on,

VOL. III. c

putting her handkerchief and both hands upto
her face, and wiping her tearless eyes
vigorously, " But I cannot be blind to the
fact that your pertinacity deserves to be
rewarded. I honestly admit that if my
daughter had made a more brilliant match I
should have been better pleased  for her !
For myself, I can only say that no son-in-law
could ever have stood so near to my heart
as you do."

She holds out her pretty, fragile little
hand as she speaks, and Walter Gifford,
though he does not believe her, admires
her, and kisses the extended hand with filial
devotion.

And now," she says, lassitude seeming to
overcome her, though, in reality, she is only
a little bored, " I will go, unwilling as I am
to leave you, Walter, just as we seem to begetting
to know one another, really ; and I'll
send Ethel to you, dear girl ! I need not tell
you to prize her ! she is too openly recognised
a jewel for you not to do that ; but
show all the world that you do. Never let

me hear that in giving my child to be a
second wife. I have allowed her to fill a
second place."

With this the Bishop's wife takes herself
and her trailing graceful draperies out of the
room, and presently Ethel comes in.

Listening to her words of hopefulness,
speaking to her words of long pent-up
devotion, looking at her sunshiny face, and
studying her brave heart and manner,
Walter Gifford soon finds ample compensation
for all her mother has made him endure
during the past hour.

Lord Monkstown is to arrive in Atherton
Towers with his son, Lord Kenmare ; his
brother-in-law, Sir John Hawtrey ; his niece,
Miss Hawtrey; and her affianced lover,
Mr. Grove, this afternoon. Several other
more or less important and noble members
of his important and noble family are likewise
expected. But of all these, the marquis
and his son are the only ones who are to
be admitted within the sacred precincts of
the Palace until the state dinner at eight



thirty, when Mrs. Templeton's social heart
will be gladdened at seeing herself the hostess
of a dozen titled people ; while her maternal
heart will be wrung by the reflection that
Ethel is not the cause of the assemblage.

"a tyrant and a slave.

ijfOU will dine with us to-night ; you
will dine with us and the other
members of the family to-night, I
hope ? " Mrs. Templeton has constrained herself
to say to Walter GifFord as she is leaving
him, and he has replied :

I shall ask you to forgive me for excusing
myself for to-night," knowing all the time
that she is rejoicing over her deliverance
from the sharp contrast there would be
between the place occupied on the ladder by
the Bishop's future son-in-law and her own.

I will  I must, as you ask me to do it,"
she has responded, amiably, and then she has
vanished away in a smile, after the manner of
the famous cat in Alice in Wonderland.

To happy Ethel, happy in the indulgence
of authorised delight in hitherto contraband

love, the thoughtful little chatelaine of the
Palace has whispered :

Don't urge Walter to reconsider his refusal
to dine here to-night ; it will be better
that he should glide into our circle at a later
date, than jump into it now side by side with
Monkstown and Kenmare."

I don't pretend to be ashamed of him,
mother ; if you are, I'm afraid I shall be
fully ashamed of you," Ethel says, proudly ;
and Mrs. Templeton hastens to correct any
unfavourable impression which may militate
against her own interest in the future, by
saying :

Dear child, how can you do Walter and
yourself and me such terrible injustice ;
ashamed of him ! what greater honour could
I show to a prince than I am showing to
Mi Gifford in giving him you ? My thought
was that his own sense of what is comely,
recoiled, shall I say, from the idea of the
early publicity of the engagement, which
would be made, were he to dine here
to-night ; you must forgive me, dear, for reminding

you that Mr. Gifford is still in
deep mourning ! Conventionality demands
that for some time to come he must not
show himself too openly comforted."

" Mother, dear, I wish sometimes that you
could forget worldly wisdom, and think a
little less of how things look," Ethel says ;
and then she goes back to Walter, from
whom she has been called away to listen to
these words of counsel, with a heart a little
heavier from the recollection her mother has
forced upon her of Walter having loved and
married and lost a wife.

Mrs. Templeton sent for you to suggest
something unpleasant concerning me, I'm
sure of that," he says, taking Ethel's chin in
his hand and holding her face up while he
searches the clear depths of her eyes with
a glance that is, she feels, full of love and
confidence ; " never mind, dear ! I shall never
add to the perplexities in which it is your
mother's vacillating habit to plunge people,
by questioning you about them ; you have
a perfect compass to steer by ; the kindest,

bravest, and truest heart in the world ; it
will enable you to hold a blameless course
between your mother and me."

Do you mean that you'll leave me to find
my own way over unknown seas without a
word of advice ? "

No, no ! not that ; but you know the
navigation about Mrs. Templeton's shores
better than I do, and you'll sail round her
much better without any interference from me.
Now, tell me, Ethel, when may I bring my
sister to see you ? Quiet will reign here after
the show-wedding tomorrow, I presume ;
may I bring Mabel the next day ? "

Certainly, or shall I go to her ? "

Certainly not first ; all proper and fitting-homage
and recognition shall be shown to
you from my side of the house ; after Mabel
has been here I shall ask you to come and see
your future home, and suggest any changes
you may like to have made m it."

Now, even as he says this, Mr. Gifford feels
a qualm of compunction for suggesting alterations
in his menage to Ethel, which his sister

Mabel will assuredly groan over. He knows
that Mabel holds every arrangement, down to
its slightest detail, that was made by poor
Lily, sacred ! How will she bear the order of
anything to be revised, improved, or altered in
any way? How will she endure to see another
mistress reigning in the home that Lily's
taste has decorated and furnished? He knows
that painful complications will arise whenever
he takes home a second wife, if his sister continues
to reside with him ; and yet for the life
of him he does not see his way to getting rid
of her with a fair show of anything like
fraternal feeling, since her presence in his
house had been a great point with Lily.

But he betrays none of this embarrassment
to Ethel, and she, feeling naturally anxious
to see the territory over which she is to reign
as soon as possible, declares that she will
return his sister's call with royal celerity
the day after it is made.

And now there begins to be a stir about
the Palace, which betokens that something
important is happening. As is indeed the

case, for Lord Monkstown is descending from
the carriage which has brought him from the
station, and his bride elect is making progress
through the hall on her father's arm
to receive him.

Lord Monkstown is descending very slowly
from his carriage, and as his son assists him
up the steps, his aspect is not at all that of an
eager bridegroom hastening to meet his bride.
On the contrary, it is that of an old man
halting and limping under the influence of
excruciating pain. In fact, his lordship is
suffering from the grip of a foe that is hereditary
in many noble houses. A foe who
meanly catches a man by the feet, rendering
him unsteady and tottering, and altogether
feeble in appearance, when in reality, beyond
the assailed toes, he may be full of firmness
and vigour.

I am afraid I have a touch of your old
enemy, gout," Lord Monkstown says to the
Bishop, when he (Lord Monkstown) has been
conveyed into the library, and deposited upon
the fattest, most rest-inducing chair in the

room. " I trust all unfavourable symptoms
will have passed away by to-morrow'' he
adds, looking apologetically at Fanny, as if
he really feels that for her sake he ought to
have kept the charter, and been quite debonair
and merely middle-aged to-day.

"It is most unfortunate that Mrs. Templeton
should have arranged a large dinner tonight,"
the Bishop says, fretfully. " I fear
you will hind yourself unequal to the exertion
of joining us ? "

Fanny listens to this, and waits with
impatience for his lordship's answer. She is
longing to show him, as her affianced, to the
numerous old acquaintances who are to dine
at the Palace to-night, for some of these (notably
Lady St. Just) have sat in the seat of the
scornful above her, and Fanny is one in whose
mind the remembrance of the slightest
injury lives with marvellous tenacity. At the
same time she is far more anxious to show
herself off as the Marchioness of Monkstown
to the world at large. It is a little thing
that he should not appear at this dinner tonight,

in comparison with the possibility of
his failing to appear in the Cathedral on the
morrow. Accordingly, she waits the verdict
anxiously.

1 shall certainly make the effort, since
Mrs. Templeton has done me the honour to
make me the chief feature at the banquet
to-night." Lord Monkstown bows with grim
politeness to Mrs. Templeton as he says this,
and she smiles in reply quite as affably and
brightly as if she had not an unfulfilled wish
or ambition in the world. To tell the truth,
Lord Monkstown has ceased to find his
Fanny faultless and charming, as he imagined
her to be in the days when she was giving
her best energies to the task of consoling him
for Ethel's coldness. And with this revulsion
of feeling about his betrothed has come the
galling conviction that if Mrs. Templeton had
only kept Ethel up to the mark of being
seemingly willing to marry him, he would
never have fallen a prey to Fanny.

As it is, the marriage is inevitable tomorrow,
and to-night he has the gout.

"Perhaps," Fanny says, with a tender thrill
in her voice, " it would be better for you to
rest entirely to-night? It would be better
that we should forego the happiness of having
you with us, than that you should
suffer one extra pang?"

As Fanny says this, Mrs. Templeton smiles
and shows her pretty little teeth, and lets
each one of them see that she perfectly
understands why Fanny is so desirous that
Lord Monkstown should run no risks that
may involve the deferring of the ceremony
tomorrow.

"It's uncle Hawtrey's port that has done
the mischief," Kenmare explains, pleasantly.
"I knew what it meant when you got hold
of your old love, sir, for I remember
you had to drop that too potent beverage
ten years ago, when gout threatened your
head. I was always counselling whisky
and soda to you at Lamington ; but as
uncle Hawtrey is such a poor-livered, thin-blooded
fellow that he can drink any given
quantity of port with impunity, you forgot

C
your different physique and followed his

example."

"I fancy I must have sprained the joint
of my right big toe in former days, and that
I am suffering from the effects of that now
more than from port or (what Kenmare regards
as its natural successor) gout,' 1 Lord
Monkstown says, majestically. Then he
makes a tremendous effort and gets himself
up to his own room, from whence an occasional
roaring groan proceeds at intervals,
till Fanny's heart grows low within her.

"It is really melancholy to see a man so
aged as your father is since I saw him last,"
Mrs. Templeton says with soft sympathy to
Lord Kenmare, and he, not having Fanny's
discomfiture at heart, replies :

u Oh ! he'll be all right again in a few
days; he's in a rage with his Irish agent and
Irish tenants, and on the top of this rage he
has been drinking a great deal too much of
uncle Hawtrey's port. How is Ethel, Mrs.
Templeton ?  and where is she ? "

She is quite well, quite well and herself

again, as you will see at dinner'' Mrs.
Templet on says, sweetly, and her heart grows
2'lad within her as she reflects that no one
knows anything of the renewed engagement
with Walter Gifford yet.

It was very sad, that poor fellow, the
doctor, losing his wife in the way he did,"
Kenmare says, sympathetically and forcibly,
for truly enough he does deeply deplore
the removal from Ethel's path of her rival,
Lily.

Very, very sad ! I doubt if he will
ever get over it," Mrs. Templeton says.
convincingly. At the same time she cannot
help remembering Walter Gilford's look of
perfect content and happiness when she
gave her consent that Ethel should be his
wife.

Don't you think it would be only kind
to offer to send for a doctor to see Lord
Monkstown?' : Fanny, who has been out of
the room for a few minutes, says, returning
very pale and worried. A man full of dire
import from Lord Monkstown's room has just

reached her ears, and she hears one of his
servants ordering hot vater and bandages,
and various other medical-nursing necessaries
that are suggestive of anything but a wedding
tomorrow.

She addresses her father, but before the
Bishop can reply, Mrs. Templeton puts in : 

A doctor ? Yes, certainly, Fanny ! Dr.
Garland shall be sent for without a minute's
delay."

Why Dr. Garland, when Mr. Gifford is in
the house at this very moment ? " Fanny says,
impatiently. " Everybody says how clever
and kind he is ; Lord Kenmare, will you ask
your father if he will see Mr. Gifford?"

If you wish it," Kenmare says, moving
towards the door. But before he reaches it,
he pauses, and, looking round at Mrs. Templeton
says, rather excitedly 

Mr. Gifford is here as a guest, I presume,
not as a medical man ? "

"As a morning caller."

And  Ethel is entertaining him ? "

I left her to do that when it was

my duty to come forward to receive your
father."

I know what it all means," he says, dejectedly,
and then he runs upstairs and recommends
his rival's services to his father,
for Lord Monkstown is undeniably very ill.

So it comes to pass very soon that Walter
Gifford (who has first to go home for themis
applying internal and external alleviations
and remedies to Lord Monkstown, while
Fanny weeps in her chamber, and pours out
anything but benedictions on Sir John Haw-they
for having poured port at such an
inopportune time down Lord Monkstown's
throat.

It is very hard upon her. The prize
seemed so close but an hour as:o that she had
but to put out her hand in order to be able
to grasp and keep it. And now it seems to be
indefinitely" receding for who can tell either
how long the gout may last in the first place,
or how it may affect his matrimonial intentions
in the second. His lordship has
already shown himself capable of breaking off

VOL. III. D

an engagement, and she had on that occasion
so vehemently applauded him for his straightforwardness,
that she has put a weapon into
his hand which he may use against herself if
the gout teaches him to distrust and dislike
the whole world, including herself. Her
heart swells to bursting as she takes this view
of the case, and she hurriedly puts the wedding
dress, which is laid out in readiness for
the morning on a sofa in her dressing-room,
away into a wardrobe, from whence a doleful
presentiment tells her she will never take
it more.

It is impossible for her to go down and
be agreeable, as society demands, to her
father's guests to-night. Her eyes are red
with the bitter tears of disappointment ; moreover,
decent feeling demands that she shall
not seem to be gay while the man who may
still be her husband some day is ghastly
with pam.

How she longs to run out into the corridor
and intercept Mr. Gifford, and wring from him
the truth as to whether Lord Monkstown will

be in fit case to walk or even to hobble up to
the altar tomorrow? But her doing this
would betray what Mrs. Templeton would
denounce as " indecorous impatience," if it
ever came to her ears.

In this dilemma she goes in search of
Ethel, and finds the latter radiant in rosy
silk, thickly fringed and trimmed with rosier
cyclamen and snowdrops. In Ethel's
heart and in her eyes there is a leaping
flame of happiness, for she looks upon this
summons of her lover to Lord Monks town
as a formal recognition of his rights, little
thinking that it is a " purely professional
matter," as Mrs. Templeton will take care
to explain to everyone whom it may (and
probably will not) concern a little later on.

For Mrs. Templeton is once again in a little
cleft stick. The Bishop has insisted that Mr.
Gifford, who is to stay on in attendance on
Lord Monkstown at the Palace through the
night, shall be asked to fill his lordship's
chair and dine with them. This the Bishop
does, not from any abstract idea of what it

D 2

will be the courteous thing to do, but simply
because Ethel has been consistently kind to
him, and it pleases him to please Ethel even
at the risk of displeasing his wife.

Accordingly, a servant is despatched to
Walter Gifford's residence, bearing a note
commissioning his sister to pack his Gladstone
with all things needful for his outer man during
the dinner and the night.

It is needless to say that this note dated
from the Palace, savouring of Ethel as it
does, strikes consternation to the soul of
Miss Gifford. She packs the bag carefully,
completely, and neatly, as it is her wont to do
everything, but she packs it with a dismayed
heart and grudging spirit.

To think that he should wear the clothes
that he bought when he married her, at a
dinner given, I feel sure, to entrap him into
looking well again in the eyes of that girl,"
Mabel thinks, as she closes the bag with so
vindictive a snap that it almost seems as if
she hoped he may not be able to open it
easily.

This, then, is the reason of Ethel's radiancy,
and happy satisfied acquiescence in things in
general. Walter will be with her for several
hours longer in the order of things. First in
the (to them) comparative seclusion of the
dinner-table, and secondly in the aesthetic
semi-obscurity of a corner in Mrs. Templeton's
drawing-room. The " fact " of his being here
is of paramount interest to her. The " cause"
has rather slipped into the background, and
so it is with a selfishness that is quite foreign
to her nature, that she says : 

Fanny, I know you'll be glad for me that
Walter Gifford is staying here to-night ; isn't
it delightful ? "

"I came to you for comfort in my
affliction, and you're absolutely rejoicing in
it," Fanny cries. Of a truth Miss Templeton
does recoil in disgust from any exhibition of
selfishness in every human being saving herself.


"Your affliction? Oh, yes! to be sure.
Lord Monkstown is very ill, poor man, but
it's an illness that won't last long, Fanny ;

I'm sure it won't, for Walter has charge
of the case now, and he knows exactly what
to do."

Ethel soothes Fanny with a loving touch on
the fair, bowed, trembling head as she speaks,
and the bride-elect gathers up failing remnants
of courage and hope, takes heart of
grace, and says : 

Do you think I could see Mr. GifFord,
Ethel? "

He is with Lord Monkstown now," Ethel
says, dubiously, not feeling quite sure whether
it is in her part as friend of the leading lady
in distress, to be a " general utility lady," and
go in heroic search of the surgeon.

But when he comes out, do get a word
with him for me, before he goes into the
drawing-room presently ; Mrs. Templeton will
be buzzing at him then, and he will think
nothing of giving a medical opinion to the
effect that the wedding must be delayed, if he
sees that Mrs. Templeton wishes it ; now if
you tell him beforehand that it's life or death
to Lord Monkstown to carry out a plan, or to

be thwarted in one, he, as the doctor, will
decide properly."

I'll tell Walter exactly what you say,"
Ethel rejoins, feeling proud for him that he is
thus suddenly made into the final court of
appeal, and the arbiter of the destinies of
these great ones.

And ask him to tell Lord Monkstown
that I am shattered," Fanny adds, heartrending.


Oh, Fanny ! that may alarm him," Ethel
says, blushing ; " don't make him think you
feel it to be such a very serious illness ; it's
only the gout ; you say that yourself. He
will be better in a few days."

Ethel, if you argue against the wedding
coming off tomorrow, I shall feel that you're
in league with the rest and Fate against me,"
Miss Templeton says, gloomily. Then she
subsides into a fit of helpless weeping, and
renders herself utterly unpresentable at her
father's dinner table this night.

HELP FANNY, Mother."

iTHEL, stung to her kindly heart by
| Fanny's suggestion that she (Ethel)
is in league with fate and inimical
people against the wedding coming off on
the morrow  or at all, skirmishes about for
an hour in the hope of catching Walter, and
instructing him how to plead for his noble
patient.

But when, after a weary time of waiting
about, during which the cyclamen and snowdrops
begin to droop a little, Ethel does meet
with Walter, he is too full of professional
feeling to have any time to attend to her.

Poor Fanny is so despondent ! do send
some reassuring words to her, Walter."

He puts her aside hastily, he has no time
for gay fooling now.

Ethel," he says, seriously, " who's is the
best head in this place? Your mother's, I
think ; if I am right, send for her to come
and speak to me."

Trust to me now, Walter ? ;:

Fully and entirely, if you were free to
act and command ; but there is dire need
of prompt measures being carried out at
once, and your mother is efficient ; what
she feels must be done, will be done without
delay ; take this to her, Ethel, and then
come back and wait outside Lord Monks-town's
door. I want a good aid and scout,
and you will be both."

I will ; and what may I say to Fanny ? "

ki Poor Miss Templeton ; I am forgetting
her. Say  all that you hope for her, dear,
I can't prime you with knowledge ; but
take this to your mother, and abler opinions
than mine will be at your service in a few
hours."

This," is a strongly worded request that
Mrs. Templeton will put before Lord Ken-mare
the advisability  the necessity of telegraphing

for two eminent physicians without
delay.

Mrs. Templeton has not been relied upon in
this emergency in vain. She telegraphs for
the doctors, and consults Kenmare about the
advisability of doing so afterwards. Even
while Kenmare is sanctioning their assistance
being sought, an answer is flashed back that
u they are coming."

Yes ! Coming at once ! The need for their
advice is so urgent. The danger in which
Lord Monkstown is discovered to be is so
great.

For gout, his hereditary foe, is gradually
overpowering him, mounting from his toes to
his stomach, and threatening even to ascend
to his head. It is useless to torture him with
reminders of what he socially owes to others
now. Even Fanny admits this, as she stands
in a dark passage a little way off his chamber
door, and listens to his ejaculations and
howls.

Hers is a pitiable case indeed, for her
baffled ambition is unleavened by love, or by

the smallest particle of real sorrowful feeling
for anyone but herself. It is maddening to
her to think of all the neat packages of
beautiful clothes lying in her dressing-room,
which may never be wanted now by Fanny,
Marchioness of Monkstown ! It is desolation
to picture herself going on as " poor Miss
Templeton," after this brilliant vista which
has been opened before her.

If they (" they " meaning her step-mother)
would only tell her that she ought to go
and soothe his couch of pain, Fanny feels it
would be given her to instruct him as to how
he ought to deal by her now. But Mrs.
Templeton will merely treat it as a passing
malady, will waive away the suggestion that
it is something of a much more serious
nature, will not, in fact, aid Fanny in bringing
about a climax.

It is a doleful night in the Palace, for in
spite of Mrs. Templeton's fictitious hopefulness,
things are at a very low ebb with Lord
Monkstown. The celebrated London physicians
arrive, and  endorse everything Mr.

Gifford lias said, and order to be repeated
everything that Mr. Gifford has done ! In
other words, they tacitly admit that all that
can be done has been done, and that the
possibility of Lord Monkstown's recovery is
beyond human skill to prophecy, or further,
or retard !

Ethel's anticipations of a happy hour and a
half with Walter by her side at dinner, have,
of course, been defeated. Even at that early
stage of the evening, Lord Monkstown's state
is such as does not warrant his medical
attendant leaving him. Consequently Mrs.
Templeton is not called upon to colour fact
with fiction in accounting for his presence at
her table to any of her exalted and curious
guests.

The long weary night wears itself away at
last, and the wedding morning dawns to find
the bridegroom more than half unconscious
through excess of pain and fever, and the
bride beside herself with terror. Few of the
inhabitants of the Palace have pressed their
pillows this night, for active service has been

required of everyone, and everyone has
rendered it freely.

No one more so than Mrs. Templet on. As
soon as her guests ]eft in a state of hushed
awe, and hardly repressed curiosity as to
what the end of it all would be, Mrs.
Templeton changed her robe of state for a
clinging noiseless wrap of cashmere, and took
her place as Mr. Gifford's best aid in the
sick-room.

For quickness of step, for lightness of hand,
for instant apprehension of his meaning and
wants, however slightly he expresses them,
Walter has never met with such a nurse
before. All her airy carelessness about
everything that is not immediately connected
with herself disappears in this real atmosphere
of sorrow and danger. Not by a single
awkward gesture does she once disturb the
silence that may be felt which fills the room
while the sick man sleeps. Not by one
thoughtless word or indifferent look does
she jar upon the moral atmosphere of the
situation, which Mr. Gifford knows to be a

source of the most poignant sorrow and
anxiety to Fanny's step-mother. For sympathy,
for tact, for promptitude, for helpfulness,
Walter feels that he has never met
her equal.

When that doleful hour arrives during
which the passing day dies, and the new one
glides into being, Lord Monks town wakes,
and, with the weak restlessness that is sure to
be the portion of those who are sick unto
death, begins moaning afresh, and moving
about as far as he can  thus adding to his
pain.

Then her cool, steady little hands, and Er
clear low voice are invaluable in (unconsciously
to himself) soothing him, and restraining
all those untoward movements which would
only aggravate his pain. "The whole College
of Physicians couldn't do more than you are
doing now," Walter whispers to her, admiringly,
and she gives him a quick, sweet,
grateful smile in reply, which sets him
wondering as to whether she really will leave
off trying to undermine him after this with

Ethel, should any more auspicious prospect
than he can offer open for her.

I'll try to trust her as regards myself.
And whatever comes I'll say this, no woman
on earth could have behaved more superbly
to-night than she has ; her nerves must be
in splendid order, and that fact augurs well
for her heart.

A miserable breakfast is partaken of in a
disjointed, spiritless way, by the Bishop, Mrs.
Templeton, Kenmare and Ethel, this morning.
Walter cannot leave his patient, whose danger
increases every hour, and Fanny cannot leave
her room, for despair increases with her in
exactly the same ratio.

The Bishop is feeling the blow heavily, of
that there can be no doubt. He cannot even,
under the pressure of it, rouse himself to offer
anything like condolence or consolation to
Kenmare, whose grief for what is, and what
yet may be, is as keen and vivid as all his
other emotions. As a man and a father the
Bishop would have sorrowed deeply for his
daughter had it been her husband who was

lying upstairs in extremity ; but his sorrow,
had such been the relationship, would have
been as water unto wine compared to what it
is now. It is a calamity this, which he
cannot compel himself to contemplate with
resignation. It threatens the downfall of all
his best hopes. It opens up a vista of discontent,
gloom, poverty and disappointment for
his daughter, which he shrinks from looking
at. Small wonder, this being the case, that
the Bishop sits with bowed head and desolate
mien, tacitly rejecting all Ethel's offers of the
daintiest bits of toast or grill.

Mrs. Templeton is unwontedly grave, too,
though she does now and again make an
effort to inspire more hopefulness into their
hearts. The influence of the scenes through
which she passed during the night is still
upon her. She cannot shake off the impression
of the face convulsed with pain,
of the wild wandering words, which betrayed
the disordered mind of the unfortunate man
who was to have led his bride to the altar
this very day.

As for Kenmare, lie comes of a nation
and a race in which the love of father and
mother is strong as death.

Well may Atherton Towers go softly about
its business this day, and keep a sympathetic
watch on the Palace of its spiritual chief,
in which the giant Sorrow is overshadowing
all things !

The only human being whom Fanny will
allow to come near her this woful day is
Ethel, and even Ethel is powerless to get the
poor, stricken, stunned woman to eat a morsel
of food, or moisten her parched lips with a
drop of anything.

Patiently, over and over again, does Ethel
prepare a cup of frothing fragrant coffee, and
take it to poor Fanny, whose mental distress
is rapidly making her physically ill. Fanny
turns from the proffered cup with as genuine
a loathing as if it were nauseous medicine or
potent poison.

It would choke me," she says, passionately,
flinging her arms about Ethel, and pressing
her feverish cheek against Ethel's cool one ;

VOL. III. E

I feel as if I were burning up, scorching
away with something that isn't grief only, and
yet I do like him more than any of you think,
perhaps. To lose him ! and to have to go
back to being nobody ! Nothing ! A mere
burden on papa ! A blighted old maid !
Ethel, it will kill me ! Pity me now if you
never have before."

Ethel does pity her, and does clearly discern
the real root of bitterness, and does
earnestly desire to tear it out from Fanny's
heart and plant a sweeter satisfaction in its
place.

"Mother," she says to Mrs. Templeton,
when the day is waning again, and Lord
Monkstown is a little worse, "is he sensible?
Does he know what this day would have been
to him if he had been well ? "

Ethel asks the question out in the dimly-lighted
corridor a few feet from Lord Monks-town's
bedroom door, from whence Mrs.
Templeton has just emerged.

"Come with me, Ethel; I am going to make
some barley water, we can talk while I make it."

So, while she is skilfully compounding a
soothing draft, that looks like liquid amber,
they " talk it over."

He has been sensible, perfectly con '
scions and sensible two or three times
this afternoon, and he has asked for Ken-mare
and for you ; but he seems to have
forgotten Fanny  and I am sorry for herat
last."

i3e more than sorry for her ; help Fanny,
mother ? ' :

Mrs. Templeton shakes her head. " She
will not even see me, dear, and even if she
did, what form of comfort Could I offer her
that she would accept ? She won't even
see her father, not that he is capable of
preaching resignation to her, he is too
absolutely unresigned to this blow himself;
but if she won't see him, she assuredly would
lock me out."

Still, try and help ; she's quite broken-down,
she's pitiably unhappy, and she is
getting ill, of that, I'm sure."

"It's not love, it can't be love for him,

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF Illic

poor old man, that is making her suffer so,"
Mrs. Templeton says, thoughtfully.

You can't tell any more than I can ; I
think she's as fond of him as she can be of
anyone, and she prizes and loves what he
could give her, and is very, very grateful
to him. Do for her what you would do forme,
if you saw the man in whom my heart
is bound up, dying, and knew that the one
little spark of comfort I could have would
be the right to mourn for him  the wife's
right, I mean ? "

Such a proposal can't come from me,"
Mrs. Templeton says, kissing Ethel's forehead,
as she prepares to take the barley-water upstairs
; " but  don't look hurt, my child  it
may be someone else."

So Mrs. Templeton goes back to the sick
man's room, and, after looking for a time at
the failing form on the bed, she takes her
resolution.

Walter ! Come into the ante-room, I
want you," she says, laying her hand on his
arm ; and, thrilled by the tone in which she

calls him familiarly by his Christian name, he
follows her, promptly. " Will he recover
from that sleep to a knowledge of things ? "
she asks, pointing through the open door, to
the recumbent form now steeped in motionless
slumber under the influence of a narcotic.

God only knows ! "

Are you hopeful of his doing so ? "

Hopeful, but not expectant."

Should he do so, will you remind him of
poor Fanny? Her distress is very bitter, and
I am woman enough to feel for her with all
my heart, though my step-daughter and I
have never loved one another. Lord Monks-town,
if he is conscious for an hour, can still
do a good act for her, and take the sharpest
sting out of her grief."

"You mean he can marry her?"

;t I do ! this was Ethel's thought before
it was mine ; will you put it to him ? And
as soon as you have done so I will prepare
the Bishop. Will you do this kindness for
the family to which you will soon belong,
Walter?"

This form of application would have been
potent with him even had his judgment been
in opposition to Mrs. Templeton's and Ethel's
wishes. As it is, his judgment is with them.
What they propose can certainly do Lord
Monkstown no harm in any case, and in the
event of his dying, it will do Fanny much
good.

So he promises to be the mouth-piece of
the family " wishes, and armed with a
knowledge of his intentions, Mrs. Templeton
nerves herself to face Fanny for the first
time since his lordship was stricken down
yesterday.

There is no answer to her first tap at
Fanny's door, but after trying again and
again, a voice, hoarse with suffering, asks 

"Who is it? I don't want anybody or
anything ! "

I have something to tell you, Fanny 
something you must hear." Mrs. Templeton
tries to throw encouragement into her tones,
but evidently fails in doing so, for Fanny
cries out sharply now,

"He is dead, and you have come to gloat
over me."

He is not dead ; dear Fanny, let me inlet
me tell you, let me be your friend!"

In another moment the door is thrown
open, and Fanny, all her soft bloom and neatness
gone, stands revealed, haggard and tearstained,
in the same dress which she has never
changed since the moment of Lord Monks-town's
arrival.

Is he better, does he want to see me ? "
Mrs. Templeton takes her step-daughter's
hand, leads her inside the door, closes
it, and then replies with hardly retained
composure,

He is resting now ; when he wakes you
will probably have to go to him. And if he
proposes  or assents to the proposal  that
you shall be made his wife here  at once 
with just your father to read the marriage
service, and Kenmare, Ethel, Walter GifFord
and I to witness it, are you prepared to
consent ? "

For answer Fanny drops upon her knees,

and clasping her step-mother round the
waist, pours out such a volume of thankfulness,
that Mrs. Templeton's heart smites her
with a sudden pang, lest this poor thing
should be doomed to disappointment after

all.

A little later on, Walter, who has never
relaxed in the vigilance of his guard 
though the marquis's own servants help
Mrs. Temple ton to nurse him as tenderly
and efficiently as any trained nurses could
do  is summoned to his patient's side.

"I am here still, am I not," Lord Monks-town
says, in a curious kind of voice that
gives Walter a thrill of horror for a moment,
fearing that the mind which once informed
the man, is gone.

Here still, my lord. Here at the Palace 
at Atherton Towers, you know."

"I know, yes, I know. Am I married, or
have I dreamt it ? "

"Not married yet, Lord Monkstown,"
Walter says, speaking very distinctly ; " you
have had a terribly sharp attack of illness,

and Miss Templeton an equally sharp time of
suspense."

"Am I very ill, Gifford?"

You are very ill."

"Is there anything I ought to do  at
once r

Yes," Walter says, with decision ; " seethe
unhappy lady who would have been your
wife this morning, if all had gone well, and
give her what peace you can  make her your
wife now."

There is silence in the room for a few
minutes. Then Lord Monkstown says : "It
shall be as you say, but it must be at once;
send my boy to me."

SOME AKE MARRIED ! SOME AEE DEAD !

;0 more melancholy a group has ever
been assembled, no more heartrending
scene has ever been witnessed
in the Bishop's Palace, than the group
that gets itself together, and the scene that
takes place in Lord Monkstown's chamber
to-night.

The Bishop has been persuaded, urged,
goaded on to the task of preparing the
special license, which is to empower him or
some other priest to make Lord Monkstown
and Fanny man and wife. But he has done
this reluctantly, so reluctantly, that his wife
has to say to him finally,

It is what we all wish and feel to be
right ; ease Lord Monkstown's last hours, by
letting him feel that his last act is the crowning
one of a chivalrous and gracious life."

I shall be accused of self-seeking and
vain gloriousness," the Bishop says, querulously.


*' Fiddle-de-dee ! you will be accused of
nothing of the sort ; do act forcibly for
once ; you will not love your daughter one
bit the better if through your hesitation
she loses this great good thing."

Undue influence, it may be urged, is
being used over a dying man," he argues,
hoping all the time that his argument may be
upset.

"If you think that, go to him yourself,"
his wife says, at once ; " use all your eloquence
against his marrying your daughter
now, and see how it would weigh with
him."

"I could never bring myself to read the
holy marriage service  full of promise and
hope as it is  over a moribund," he says,
with a shudder, and Mrs. Templeton answers,

There is no need for you to tax yourself
; the Hawtrey's are here, and Mr. Grove
is with them: leave the task to him."

I will pray to be directed aright," the
Bishop moans, and in verity and truth he
does ask for aid and counsel, from the One
Source from whence it is never denied or
withheld.

The end of it all is, that by-and-bye a
forlorn-looking lot of people group themselves
about Lord Monkstown's bed, and
amidst the wistful silence of the watchful

i

bystanders (who are all fearful that the
final spark may nicker out while the service
is going on) and her own stifled sobs, Fanny
is made Marchioness of Monkstowm, and
wife to the dying man.

Yes, securely wife and marchioness at last ;
and still, as she stands holding his feeble
hand in hers, she can feel no thrill of
exultation ! Has she gone through all the
strain and anguish for nothing? she asks
herself indignantly. Is it to be so with her
always, that she will feel no pride, no pleasure,
in this end which she has attained ?

She does not ask herself these questions
clearly or coherently, but the meaning of

them rambles about in her mind. For the
present, all she knows, all she feels is this 
that a dim? man is holding her hand, or
rather letting his lie in hers, and that somehow
or other, the rest, her own people,
seem to think her more to be pitied, or
more important, she can't quite make out
which, than they did half an hour ago.

It is Mr. Grove who has read the service,
and joined her hand to the feeble one still
lying in her own. And it is Mr. Grove who
first breaks through the night-marish web
which seems to be encompassing her.

Let me take you to your father, Lady
Monkstown ; Lord Monkstown can't stand
this sustained excitement."

The others have all drifted out of the
room when he says this, leaving him the
task of telling her the truth.

Is any part of it real ? Do you mean he
is dying I" she stutters out in horror-stricken
accents. There is something more than
ghastly to her now in this deed which she has
done. Lord Monkstown has subsided into a

state of coma again ! it almost seems to her
that she has been wedded to a corpse.

"He is dying," Mr. Grove says, very gently.
Then he draws her hand firmly within his
arm, signals to Walter Gifford, who is bending
anxiously over the bed, that the end has
come, and then drags, rather than leads,
the newly-made marchioness out of the room.

At the door they meet Kenmare.

My father is ," the young man falters

out, and, in passing, Mr. Grove puts his hand
firmly on the son's shoulder in a way that
tells the latter that his father is dead !

It is a terrible shock to everybody, and,
strangely enough, not one of the Templeton
can take any comfort from the reflection
that their great object has been attained !
Satisfaction may arise from this by-and-bye.
At present they one and all feel that it
has been attained, and that so narrowly,
under circumstances that are too tragic for
anything like elation to be felt.

The Bishop is a poor comforter to Fanny
in this her hour of tribulation. He is too

nervously afraid of what people will think
and say about the strong measures which
were adopted when Lord Monkstown was
in extremity. He fears that his friends will
deem him worldly-minded, and his enemies
will denounce him as a self-seeking, grasping
man, who has secured a good alliance
for his daughter in an unscrupulous, undignified,
rapacious, and almost inhuman
way.

Again, he is tormented by other fears
and doubts. By the fear that Lord Monks-town
may have neglected to provide for the
lady who was his wife for only a minute or
two, and is now his widow ! And even if
he mentioned his wishes concerning her in
his will, marriage will have cancelled it,
or the will may be unsigned, or the
new marquis may dispute it. The Bishop
knows his daughter well enough to feel sure
that when her nerves recover their tone, she
will expect to live in such state as befits a
marchioness. Supposing her late husband
has not provided her with the wherewithal,

how on earth is he  the already impoverished
Bishop  to do so?

It is all his wife's fault he feels sure. The
idea of carrying out the nuptial scheme,
though the bridegroom was moribund, emanated
from Mrs. Temple ton's scheming,
active, ambitious brain, he knows. He does
not feel in the least grateful to her for having
secured the alliance, for which he formerly
yearned, for his daughter. He is too upset,
fretful, peevish, and irritably nervous to be
either generous or just, and so he sits brooding
over the library fire, complaining of the
way everybody has treated him, and prognosticating
all manner qf evil for himself, and all
those around him.

Thanks to your ill-timed interference," he
says to his wife, " we shall have Fanny fancying
herself a fine lady, without a penny of her
own to keep up the position."

I'm not at all afraid of that evil consequence
; and as for your implying that it was
altogether my work, and done in opposition
to your wishes, that is not true. I consulted

you before I allowed Mr. Gifford to speak
to Lord Monkstown, and before I spoke
to Fanny. You could have put a veto on
it if you had pleased then."

I was led to believe he might recover,"
the Bishop says, testily ; " who knows what
sort of impression the affair will give the
world of me ? "

"You ought not to care for the opinion of
the world," Mrs. Templeton says, good-tempered
; "if you are quite clear in your own
conscience, the world's opinion ought not to
weigh with you for a moment."

But I am not clear in my own conscience.
I feel that I have consented  that I have
been tricked into consenting  to an indecorous
act."

"You are quite at liberty to consider the
act ' indecorous,' but you shall not say you
were ' tricked ' into consenting to it ; you
consented freely and o-Jadly enough when it
was proposed, and so I shall tell everyone."

Soon after this conversation, Fanny, who is
really yearning for tenderness, sends for her

VOL. III. F

father, and he strings himself up to the task
of going to her. As he goes, he asks himself,
Why he should be so harassed and imposed
upon ? Why he should be called upon to
maintain his daughter in greater state and
expense now that she has a title, than if she
had remained unmarried ? " He feels sure
that she is left a noble pauper. He feels
equally sure that the present marquis will do
nothing for the widow who was made his
father's wife in so unbecoming, indecorous,
and ill-timed a manner ; it will all fall on him
(the Bishop)  all the odium, and all the
expense ! fall on him most unreservedly.

These thoughts do not impart either a
sympathetic or paternal air to his face or
mien when he goes into his daughter's room.
He looks solemn enough to satisfy the most
rigorous requirements of conventionality, but
he looks sour as well, and at sight of him
poor Fanny's tears fall afresh.

Oh, papa," she sobs, " don't look as
if you thought me to blame ; I am so
unhappy ; it has shattered me completely"'

You must be well aware that I am
shattered too, Fanny ; in every way this
lamentable occurrence is doubly lamentable
to me. I shall be held accountable for the
unseemly conduct and acts of my family,
over whom, I regret to say, I have no
wholesome control. I feel my position
keenly, and I fear we shall all suffer for an
act of most culpable folly."

If you have nothing kinder to say tome,
I will ask you to leave me, papa," she
says, drying her eyes, and speaking with a
gentler dignity than he has ever seen in her
before. " Perhaps you may find it hard to
believe me when I tell you that I am really
mourning for Lord Monkstown, not for what
I have lost through his death, but it is
true, nevertheless."

I fear very much that we shall find
that no provision has been made for you ;
settlements were to have been signed the
night he came, but, unfortunately, most
unfortunately, he was too ill to attend to
business."

I shall be no worse off than I was
before," she says, wearily ; and then she
adds, " and I have the right to show that I
loved and lament him, and that is all I care
for now."

The Bishop, not finding a suitable answer
to this sentiment, an awkward silence ensues,
which she presently breaks by saying 

I should like to see Ken  I mean Lord
Monkstown ; ask Mrs. Templeton to bring
him to me, papa," and by making this request
she enables the Bishop to get himself out of
the room less awkwardly than he could otherwise
have done.

What can she want Kenmare for ? " the
Bishop asks himself, as he goes back to roost
over his library fire ; " she is not  I trust
she is not  going to crown this indecorous
proceeding by making premature and indiscreet
enquiries as to how he thinks she was
left. Time will show ; but I fear time will
show us no favour  especially if Fanny is
premature and indiscreet enough to betray
anxiety as to how she is left."

He does his daughter injustice in suspecting
her of any such design. Fanny's sole
object in wishing to see Lord Monkstown, is to
hear the word of kindness from him, which
he is sure to speak, which every force in his
kindly nature will compel him to speak, and
which has been denied to her by her own
father.

But the poor Bishop has no appreciation of
this, accordingly, he frets and worries himself
into a fit of dyspepsia over the  " indiscretion
" which his daughter is  not about to
commit.

So the days roll on monotonously, until
the hour of the funeral, and reading of the
will.

Meantime, other and more tragic events
have completely crowded out the domestic
poem of Walter's and Ethel's engagement.
It has not occurred to either of them to
mention it to any one but Miss Gilford, who
is not sufficiently enraptured at the news to
set it going any further. Mrs. Templeton
has not even told the Bishop of it ; nor,

indeed, can this be wondered at, for the
Bishop's manner of deporting himself in
these family straits is not conducive to confidence.
Still, she means fairly and well
by her future son-in-law, though she does
not proclaim him as such yet.

She means fairly and well ; but she is
not averse to keeping back the public announcement
of the engagement. " So many
complications may arise to retard the marriage
for a time, that it is certainly wiser
not to say anything about it," she tells
herself, when her conscience gives her a
prick about the semi-secrecy she is observing.
And after all she is not injuring anyone,
she is not interfering between or
opposing Walter and Ethel. She is simply
waiting for the tide; observing that silence
which those who are wiser than she, have
taught her is golden. '

Through it all, Walter and Ethel are
very happy. The non-publicity of their engagement
does not affect their spirits unfavourably,
for they never think about it.

They are together daily ; and they have perfect
sympathy, perfect understanding, and
perfect confidence one with the other.

Moreover, they are too unselfish to wish
to bring their happiness prominently to the
fore now that there is so much sorrow and
anxiety in the Palace. Ethel, happily betrothed
as she is to the man of her heart,
cant quite forget the holy sorrow of that
other lover of hers, who told her (so long
ago it seems now) that he would never
forget her. The son's grief for his father's
death is toe real a thing for Ethel to treat
it to a pitying word or two, and then give
it no further thought.

So it is in this way, from one not wishing
to mention it, and the others not thinking
about mentioning it, that Ethel's engagement
is still unknown to the young marquis, who
is in daily, almost hourly, companionship
with her.

And this hourly companionship is working
mischief for him, poor fellow, for his heart
is strung up to a high pitch just now, and

Ethel is intensely sympathetic. She is so
sure and confident of herself with regard to
Walter Gifford, she looks upon her troth to
him as such a sacred thing, that the idea of
breaking it for Lord Monkstown or anyone
else never occurs to her. And so she gives
Lord Monkstown just the same affectionate
sympathy which she would show to a brother
if she had one, and that brother were in
distress.

In these darker days, before the funeral,
the house-party at the Palace confine themselves
entirely to the Palace and its grounds ;
and as Fanny, Marchioness of Monkstown, is
shut up in her bedroom, as the Bishop still
does little more than brood over the fire,
and as Mrs. Temple ton has full occupation
for her brain and hands in organising and
carrying out the arrangements for the funeral,
Monkstown is thrown almost entirely and
exclusively upon Ethel's hands to entertain.

After a good deal of hesitation, and a great
many debates and windy arguments from
the majority on the subject, he has decided

to bury his father in Atherton Towers, fur a
time, at least, until such time, indeed, as
something like order and decency, and a
pretence of civilization are restored in his
beloved native land. At the present moment
he knows that the finest peasantry in the
world are as likely as not to desecrate the
family mausoleum of the Bones', and steal
his father's coffin if he has it placed thereto
make a fire, by means of which they may
burn out any honest man in their vicinity
who has paid aught that he owes.

So the Late lord's funeral is to be in Atherton
Towers, and all the business consequent on this
arrangement devolves on Mrs. Temple ton.

The active, energetic little woman is never
better pleased than when every moment of her
day is fully occupied. The amount of worK
she gets through now is simply amazing. The
work she has to do is composite. She has to
destroy all the decorations and plans for the
wedding, and create and make new ones for
the burial.

Lord Monkstown leaves everything in her

graceful, untiring hands, and the result justifies
the trust he has reposed in her.

Wreaths and crowns, and crosses of the
most exquisite flowers pour in by hundreds
from the thousand and one friends of the late
marquis. The air is heavy with the fragrance
of gardenias, stephanotis, and lilies of the
valley. Mrs. Templeton herself composes a
cushion three feet in circumference, the groundwork
.being dark-blue double Russian violets,
with the Monkstown coat of arms and crest
in white violets in the middle. It is a perfect
work of art ; and somehow or other this
exquisite work of the mother's makes the
misguided young man more than ever in
love with the daughter.

He pleases Ethel, and wins upon her greatly,
by praising her mother to her with warmth
and delicate discrimination, for though she has
suffered through her, the girl loves her mother
dearly, and loves to be proud of her.

44 1 shall never feel at home again, away
from you all'' he says to Ethel, as they go
out into the grounds in search of more violets

for Mrs. Templeton's work. " I'm getting so
fond of your mother that I shall bother her
as much about my domestic affairs as if she
were my own ; she has promised to come over
by-and-bye and re-organise things for me at
Monkstown. And the Bishop has promised,
too ; will you come with them ? "

He is stooping to gather violets as he
speaks, and now, as he Awaits for her answer,
he looks up into her face with such a look of
pleading tenderness that it is borne in upon
her suddenly that " he cannot know."

I may not be able to go  much as I should
like it  unless they go soon," she murmurs,
and she hopes he " understands."

But he does not ; he has not the most remote
conception of her meaning. His whole mind
is given up to the contemplation of the great
happiness he will have in receiving her as his
guest.

He makes a promise to himself that while
she is his guest, he will not distress her by
breathing one word of love. He will treat
her like a queen ! But afterwards ! 

As he thinks this, she has it on her tongue
to tell him of her approaching marriage, for
Walter does not mean to have a lagging
engagement. But the words do not pass
her lips. They are held back by consideration
that it is out of place to speak of
wedding bells while funeral ones are ringing
So he is left ignorant and contented!

MRS. TEMPLETON DREADS A NIGHTMARE.

HE funeral is over, the will has been
read, and the Bishop's heart is at
rest. His daughter, Fanny, Marchioness
of Monkstown, is a wealthy woman,
made so by the expressed wishes in writing
of her husband, and by the clemency of her
step-son, who declares that every desire his
father had concerning this lady's jointure
shall be carried out, though it has not been
legally witnessed and signed.

"It is enough for me to know that my
father wished it. I am not going to demur
at anything he wished to have done."

So Fanny is to have Boyne Gate for her
dower-house, and a fair income to support it
in seemly style, and the Bishop finding this
to be the case, ceases to roost over the library

fire, and declares that he has always recognised
and . admired the ability with which
Mrs. Temple ton manages any difficult or
delicate matter.

The Palace is cleared of guests now, but
Mrs. Templeton does not feel at all dull. She
hears constantly from Lord Monkstown, who
has confided to her his intention of " trying
his fate with Ethel once more, after she has
stayed at Monkstown." " While she's there,
I'll never even look as if I liked her," he
writes, " but afterwards, I'll plead my
hardest."

And Mrs. Templeton, when she reads this,
thinks " it can do no harm to let things take
their own course, and to say nothing about
Walter Gifford."

Miss Gifford has not called on Ethel. Her
brother excuses her on the ground that she
does not like to intrude into the house that is
sacred to death and sorrow for a time. But
Ethel shrewdly surmises that there is another
reason at the back of this, and suspects that
reason to be fidelity to the memory of

Walter's first wife, and a rooted antipathy to
the idea of his having a second.

Strong as her suspicion is, she abstains like
the sensible girl she is, from perplexing and
worrying Walter by communicating her ideas
on the subject. Which, " even if it is the
case, he can't help it, and it would annoy
him to have either to excuse her or to feel
that he couldn't excuse her," Ethel tells
herself. And so, when he proposes one
morning, that she shall walk home with him
and see her future sister and house, she
assents with cordiality, and starts off with
a bright determination not to be chilled or
rebuffed by anything poor Mabel may untowardly
say or do.

She forgets Mabel, in fact, when she gets to
the quaint, picturesque, pretty old country-town
house where Walter lives. The entrance
from the well-kept court-yard into the
comfortably furnished hall  the hall where
poor Lily died !  is so pretty and pleasant
a one, that it seems to give her a welcome
at once. "How often you will find me

sitting here when yon come home on cold
winter evenings, Walter ; that hearth will
burn big logs ' so gloriously ; it's quite the
ideal hall ! I can hardly take myself away
from it to look at the rest of the house,"
she says, bending over the flowers.

But you must be content with a passing
glimpse to-day," he laughs ; " your mother
said I was only to have you for an hour and a
half, and you have a good deal to see in the
time. I hope you will be equally well
pleased with the rest of the house. I think
this is a very pretty room."

As he speaks, he throws open the drawing
room, and Ethel goes into a beautifully appointed,
delicate-hued apartment, in which
everything is luxurious and beautiful.

Luxurious and beautiful, but a little overcrowded,"
her first impression. For Ethel's
taste is very pure, and she has a predilection
for perfect outlines being allowed to stand out
and be seen.

Now, in this room, there are many exquisite
little statues and statuettes, and

several grand bronzes. But they are marred,
many of them, by being put to stand on the
tables that are thickly strewn with all kinds
of coloured glass vases, and baskets, and
flagons. There is a great deal of china, too,
beautiful china of its order, and admirably
mounted, a great deal of it, on plush and
velvet brackets. But its order is modern,
and Ethel's taste has been reared and fed
upon genuine antique pottery and porcelain.

The window and fire curtains, and all the
upholstery in the room, is of a rarely toned
olive-green Oriental silk, and this is all that
she can desire. She says so, warmly, and
then adds, deprecatingly ( for though he
keeps on asking for her opinion, she half
fears to give it ) :

But there are too many little things about,
Walter : this sweet little marble Clothe ouo-ht
to stand far apart from all these prettiness
in Venetian and Bohemian glass."

I thought you liked Venetian glass."

So I do, but not when it casts a reflection
on Clyde's brow and shoulder ; may I put

VOL. III. G

her on a little stand by herself? she shall
have a pedestal when I come here."

Every alteration you make I shall delight
in, for it will assuredly be for the better," he
tells her ; and then he remembers the chief
(avowed) object of her visit, and sends for
his sister.

Miss Gifford comes in after an ominous
delay, in mourning so intensely black that
it seems to shadow the sunbeams that are
flooding the room. Her crape is so deeply
indented and stiff that it appears to rasp the
atmosphere as she passes along, and her face
is full of lamentation and woe.

She gives her hand, in a straight, frigid
line, to Ethel, and bids the girl good-morning
in a depressing monotone, that almost upsets
Ethel's good resolution as to not being
chilled.

1 have come to ask you to take me for
your sister, heartily," Ethel says, clinging to
the ungracious, frigid hand.

Miss. Gifford colours up to her nose, the
tears rush into her eyes, not with anything

like emotion engendered by Ethel's appeal,
but with angry, jealous, loving remembrance
of Lily. It is on the tip of her tongue to
say " I have had one sister and lost her, I
-can never have another." But her brother's
eyes are upon her, and she restrains herself.

I'm afraid you find this room cold," is all
Mabel can bring herself to say, with awkward
politeness ; and when Ethel says, hastily 

Oh ! not at all ; we walked over rather
fast," Miss Gifford adds :

I rarely have a fire in this room, now !
Fires spoil good furniture dreadfully, and it
would nearly break my heart to see stain, or
soil, or change in anything in this room."
Then she looks round the apartment keenly,
and her eye lights upon the Clytie in its
changed position.

Walter," she says, getting red again, and
speaking with great agitation, " do you see
what one of the servants has had the impertinence
to do? Actually to move that
bust."

She pounces upon the beautiful bone of

G 2

contention as she speaks, and is about to
move it back to its place among the litter of
pretty trifles on the little table, when Walter
interposes 

Leave it where it is, Mabel, my dear ;
it looks far better isolated and clearly outlined."


It's proper place is here" Miss Gifford
says, with snappish emphasis, putting poor
Clytie down with a bump. " I shall find out
which of the maids has had the insolence to
touch and displace "

I moved the Clytie," Ethel interrupts.
I am very sorry that my doing so has displeased
you. Walter, you shouldn't have
allowed me to do anything your sister
wouldn't like  if you knew."

"My sister draws the line between what servants
do, and what you, who will soon be the
mistress here, may do," he says, injudiciously,
and while Ethel looks general generous
forgiveness of everything, Miss Gifford infuses
as much iron as she can into her manner and
her resolution, not to be won over to the

cause of this brilliant young pretender to
Lily's throne.

Of course, if you authorise Miss Heatherley
in upsetting the furniture and altering the
arrangement of ornaments, you must do as
you please, Walter," she says, in an injured
tone ; 4< but I hold certain things very sacred,
as I thought you knew, and I am not one to
change nor to forget."

"I think we will go and look at some of
the other rooms," the young widower says,
quickly, in order to cover his embarrassment.
Will you be our pioneer, Mabel ? You can
tell Ethel more about the different departments,
and what may be needed in them,
than I can.'

I should scarcely think that any person,
however difficult that person may be to
please, can find anything 4 wanting ' in any
part of this house," Miss Gifford replies,
solemnly. " Fully and beautifully furnished,
I should call it ; then, of course, I'm nobody
and know nothing, and other people may
think differently to me."

Ethel feels her lips quivering with restrained
impatience (it scarcely amounts to wrath), as
she listens to this tirade. But she reminds
herself of Walter, and resolves to bear and
forbear.

It would be very kind of you to come
and show me the house. It is your home,
and I am only a visitor, and I couldn't feel
comfortable, or as if 1 half enjoyed it, if I
prowled over it without you ; do come."

Miss Gifford grudgingly assents at this, and
leads the way through a dining-room abounding
in richly carved, genuine, old black oak,
and through a variety of well-appointed bedrooms.
At the door of one of these latter,
Mabel pauses, draws out a key, and handing it
to her brother, says : 

You may be able to show Miss Heath erle
this room ? I can't," and as Walter unlocks
the door, and they step into a temple hung
with pale pink silk and lace, Ethel understands
that she is in the chamber of her late
rival.

It is a pink with which no one can quarrel,

and the lace that trims the coverlet and
pillows is real and good. But there is too
much " silken splendour," too much luxury
supplementing the comfort, for it to commend
itself to Ethel's taste. The ebony
and ivory furniture has groups of lilies in
alabaster introduced as ornaments here and
there. The fireplace is curtained with pink
silk, on which are worked lilies. Lilies are
painted in freehand on the panels of the door.
In fact, the whole room is redolent of the
name of the poor, dead woman, whom it
typifies, and Ethel longs to get out into ruder
scenes and a rougher air.

It looks like the bed-chamber of a
princess, it is too refined for me," Ethel says,
as they come out into the corridor, at the
end of which Label is awaiting them.

Xot too ' refined,' but too fanciful. I
agree with you there, Ethel ; the bedroom
of the wife and mother should be a place
where her children may come and tumble and
scramble, and make merry without fear of
doing a dreadful work of destruction ; you

shall choose your own room, and own furniture
; and now I must take you home ; your
time is up, and Mrs. Templet on will be
impatient."

Will you kiss me ? " Ethel asks of her
lover's sister, as they are parting.

I'm not a kissing woman," Mabel says,
holding her unattractive head very high in
the air. " A kiss with me means a great
deal, and I don't give it to many."

Then Ethel hastily turns away, and walks
out, before Walter, into the court-yard,
frowning a little.

Walter, I suppose my temper is bad,
but !  she is very trying."

Your temper is angelic, and you have
been very tolerant ; poor Mab is enough to
try the temper of the most tolerant angel, in
the mood she was in to-day."

'will she ever like me, Walter?"

He shakes his head.

I can't tell, dear ; she is the most tenacious
woman, as far as her likes and dislikes
are concerned, that I ever met with ; but

the doubt mustn't trouble you ; it will not
be your fault that she won't like you."

"But if it isn't my fault, it will be my
misfortune, as she will live with us.'

She will not live with us, if she can't
like you."

You mustn't say that, or feel it, Walter,"
she cries, half-frightened. " She was brought
to your house by your wife's wish  I've
always heard that, Walter ; and she worshipped
your wife  I've heard that, too ;
I can't be the one to displace her ; whatever
comes, if I am to know happiness as your
wife, your sister must remain."

Her good sense, if she has any, will show
her that she can't remain if she is antagonistic
to you," he replies, and then, after
the manner of men, he begs that "Ethel
will dismiss the unimportant matter from
her mind, and not worry either herself or
him about it any more ! "

But Ethel, though she is not at all disposed
to magnify trifles, is quite aware that this
seemingly unimportant, because powerless,

antagonism, may affect her domestic peace
very seriously in the future.

Mother won't stand that tacitly aggressive
manner of hers for an instant," the
girl tells herself prophetically ; " if Mabel
GifFord ever lets mother see that she thinks
her brother had better not have married
me, mother will resent it cuttingly, and
there will be awful work ; yet all the same,
I can't help admiring Mabel's sturdy loyalty ;
only she might go on loving the dead without
trying to sting the living."

Mrs. Temple ton is ready for her daily
drive by the time Ethel gets home, and the
girl sees at once that something has discomposed
her mother.

Have you had luncheon, Ethel, or are
you ready to go with me ? " she asks, meeting
Ethel in the hall. " I took it for granted,
as you stayed away so long, that you
were lunching with your new friend Miss
GifFord."

No ; I've had no luncheon, but I don't want
any, and I am quite ready to go with you,

mother," Ethel says, hastily, hoping to avert
any further converse on the difficult and
dangerous subject of Walter's sister.

Was your tour of inspection satisfactory
? "

"Perfectly; the house is delightful in
every way."

Nothing to supply nor to renovate ? ' :
Nothing ; only a few superfluities to
weed out," Ethel says, laughing, as she recalls
the litter-covered table on which Clytie
stands.

Mrs. Walter GnTord was a lovely
creature, and I should think had o-ood
taste," says Mrs. Templeton ; " but the house
has undergone some transformations I suspect
since her time, under the regime of
that extremely ungainly person, his sister."

She is ungainly," Ethel admits.

Oh, shockingly, quite shockingly so ! "
Mrs. Templeton says, with a shudder. " And
on the one occasion of my seeing her she
was hot into the bargain ; hot and dusty,
and flustered, and her gloves didn't fit her,

and she had white stockings on ; I can't
tell you how the mere thought of her affects
me still. I am afraid if ever I am ill and
feverish that she will be a nightmare tome.


I don't think her encouraging by any
means," Ethel admits ; " but I am not going
to let myself be prejudiced against her on
account of her appearance being unprepossessing
generally, and specially to one
hot summer day when you happened to see
her dusty and flustered, in ill-fitting gloves
and white stockings."

But, dear Ethel, you must allow that
gloves can be found to fit even such hands
as hers, and black stockings are as cheap
as white ones. Now tell me what I shall
order for your travelling dress when we goto
Ireland in June."

To Ireland in June ! " Ethel repeats, in
amazement.

Yes ; why echo my words ; echoes never
amuse me or interest me in the least. I've
been with people sometimes who have

dragged me half way up or down a precipice
in order that I may hear them shout
something silly, and the mountains repeat

the last syllable or two "

But about Ireland, mother ; what do
you mean by ' our going to Ireland in
Jane ? ' "

i; I am never mystical," Mrs. Templeton
says, complacently. " I mean always exactly
what I say ; we are going to Ireland in June
to pay a visit to Lord Monkstown, and

you "

By that time I hope I shall be married,"
Ethel says, blushing scarlet. " Walter wants
to have our wedding about the middle of
May. He has some cases coming on in June
that he must be back for."
Mrs. Templeton shudders.
What a dreadful occupation to pursue,
where you have to calculate your own
pleasures so that you may fit in with the
sufferings of others."

That's not a fair or reasonable way of
putting it, mother."

Dear child, I'm a mere creature of impulse,
who speaks from feelings not from
reason. You must not become so scientific
and professional all at once as to wish to
rob me of all heart, and turn me into a
mere ' reasonable ' machine ; that's one of
the drawbacks to Mr. GifFord's profession ;
it gradually deadens all finer feeling. Doctors
soon cease to regard their fellow creatures
as fellow creatures, and speak of them as
cases,' and in time doctor's wives do the
same. Oh, I know I'm right, Ethel, for I
heard it said at a very clever lecture Lady
St. Just dragged me to one night."

You're overstating the case, and arguing
as if all medical men were vivisectionists ; ' :
Ethel laughs, for her mother's rambling
charge against Walter's profession does not
affect her much. But what does distress her
is, that her mother is evidently wavering in
her own mind as to the expediency of her
(Ethel's) marriage with Walter.

She's dreaming the Monkstown dream
again, I feel sure," Ethel tells herself, and so,

to save fruitless delays and give no time for
any new obstacle to arise, she writes to
Walter when she gets home.

"I said this morning that I thought the
middle of May too soon ; but since I saw you
I have heard that mother's plans involve ray
going to Ireland with her in June if I am not
married before, therefore I agree with your
wishes, and shall be glad when everything
settled, and no further alterations can be
made for us."

It is about the middle of April when she
writes this, and, wishing to be quite open and
honest with his sister, he tells her at once
that in a month he hopes to make Ethel
his wife.

Then Mabel lifts up her voice and weeps,
and says that she " Knows well that this
scandalous work is all the doing of that
nasty manoeuvring, match-making woman,
the Bishop's wife."

So Walter's home is not made a happy one
for him through the intense affection, fidelity,
and rectitude of his sister. And Mrs. templeton

gets bitter censure for a course of
conduct which she is not pursuing, and is
reviled for entertaining hopes and wishes
which have no place in her mind !

A CURIOUS MIXTURE.

ferry little has been heard lately about
Mrs. Templeton's difficulties, for it
is well known that the Bishop has
taken his wife's liabilities upon himself, and
has proclaimed a system of retrenchment,
whereby he intends to free himself from
them.

Now, the Bishop of Atherton Towers is
largely endowed with a variety of good and
admirable qualities, but amongst these is not
to be found that excellent one of doing that
which he threatens to do, promptly. He
defers, he hesitates, he procrastinates, and
while he is doing these things, the rest of his
household  more especially his fascinating
wife  gang their gait as usual.

Now it is told, on good authority, that

VOL. III. H

when the Bishop was first made acquainted
with the fact that his wife had incurred
heavy debts, and that it would devolve upon
him to pay them, that his lordship registered
some startling, even appalling resolutions !
He would " cut down his establishment
without delay," he avowed, and he put it on
record that " his horses should go at once."
Now this alarming crisis came about before
Fanny's engagement even to the late Lord
Monkstown. And now, though weeks, months
indeed have elapsed, though Fanny has, in
the interim, become a wife, and is now a well-towered
widow, the Bishop's establishment
flourishes, as of old, in an unpruned condition
; and the same number of horses, as
heretofore, still stamp in the Bishop's stable,
and eat the Bishop's corn, and complacently
carry the Bishop about whithersoever he wants
to go. Yet, daily, he denounces them and
all the appurtenances of coachman, grooms,
harness, saddlery, and the like, as idle.,
wasteful, wicked, not to say unnecessary
extravagances, and on the daily denunciation

follows the declaration that he will get rid
of them without delay.

Now the Bishop's weakness comes to the
fore in this, that in spite of all his well-founded
abhorrence of ill-judged extravagance,
and in spite also, of his firmly (not to
say fiercely) expressed determination to cut
down and uproot it, he supinely permits the
steed still to stand in the stalls, and does not
lop off one twig that he avows to be superfluous
from his household tree.

Contemporaneously, Mrs. Templeton's tact
and strength comes to the fore, and takes
advantage, that is to a certain degree justifiable,
of this infirmity of purpose.

A feebler woman would fret and feebly
argue against " the need of it," when he
proposes to do these doughty deeds of retrenchment.
A more sensitive woman would
suffer, and shun the topic. A prouder woman
would whirl him and his weak intentions out
of her way  and go on that way, without aid
from him and his horses, for the future. Mrs.

Templeton does neither of these things. She

h2

just listens to what he says ; flatters him into
the belief that she thinks he is " perfectly
right," and goes on giving horses, coachman,
and grooms all the work she can get out of
them, all the while, And this work is not
trifling or light by any means.

I have an instinct against idleness," the
vivacious lady says, when any one ventures
to make any comment on that system of
perpetual motion which has pervaded the
Palace since she hoisted her flag over it ; "I
have an instinct against idleness: 'Satan
finds some mischief still for idle hands to do
we are told," she quotes quite solemnly ; and
then she goes on to apply her quotation to
the horses.

"They would grow quite unbecomingly fat
if I didn't use them constantly, for, I ask, is
such work as the Bishop would give them at
all in proportion to their number or to the
corn they eat ? I feel it to be my duty to
keep those horses from the snare of idleness."

It is a fact that the Bishop's carriages and
liveries are seen everywhere within a radius

of twenty miles whenever anything is going
on. Mrs. Templeton patronizes everything
with her presence, and most things with her
purse. "It is her duty to do this," she tells
the Bishop, when he remonstrates with her
sometimes on " her restless pursuit of the
gaieties of this world," as he calls it.

When the household has subsided from
its high-pressure excitement, after the Marquis
of Monkstown's death, into its normal
calm ; when the widowed marchioness has
gone off to Boyne Gate, there to set up the
state of life to attain which, she has gone
through such a sharp ordeal ; when, in fact,
things have resumed their ordinary routine,
the Bishop does begin to hope that some of
those visions of domestic felicity skilfully
shadowed forth by his wife before their
marriage may be realised.

Xow the Bishop loves politics, and dearly
does he love to see anything going wrong
under a Liberal Government. He says he
laments and bewails the effete and temporising
measures " which have bred rebellion,

in South Africa, and rebellion,
rapine, murder, anarchy, and ghastly
confusion altogether in Ireland. But in
reality, as these measures which he condemns
are the measures of a government to
which he is traditionally opposed, he does
gloat over every detail of mismanagement
in the conduct of affairs which the press
can supply him with.

Above all he likes to have these details
read to him by someone who is quick of
apprehension, and at the same time untroubled
by strong views on the subject,
especially if those views are opposed to his
own (as is the case, most unfortunately,
with his new private chaplain). The Bishop
likes pauses in the reading of the leading
events of the day, in order that he may
exercise himself in the saying of those right
and unanswerable things which he may be
called upon to say in " another place."
And this combined post of reader and
listener he likes to see filled by his wife.

But Mrs. Templeton, though she manages

to inform herself on every public question of
the day, sufficiently to be able to talk ably
and freely about it, does dislike few things
more on earth than being made to sit still
and wade through wearisome columns of
invective, irresolution, and shifting of the
blame from one pair of shoulders to another.
The debates are deadly dull, unless one or
two of the great leaders, on either side, are
speaking. So it happens that whenever the
Bishop is peculiarly bent on hearing any
special article, letter from our own correspondent
in Eumtifoo, or elsewhere, or debate
read by her, in order that he may air his
sentiments thereon at prosy length, Mrs.
Templeton is not willing.

And " when" she will not, " then " she will
not ; and not all the Bishop's hints, requests,

entreaties, com no ! never let it be

said that the Bishop of Atherton Towers
derogated so far from his own dignity as to
lay a " command" upon his wife which she
disregarded  can bring her into that cosy
library for the long hours' reading which

she once professed to yearn for. She does
quite the reverse of yearn for it now. She
recoils and retires from the reality, and
laughingly tells the Bishop that it was not
in the marriage service that she should do
the work of either reader or amanuensis.

Besides," she says, " you men, when you
get preferment, are too apt to get fat and
well-liking, and out of condition for work,
if everything that you ought to do for yourselves
is done for you ; it is clearly your
duty to keep yourself posted up in the
topics of the day ; your sight is as good as
mine. Why should I waste my time in
reading aloud to you, when you can quite
as well read for yourself; and while you're
doing that, I can be doing something else.

What you will be doing will probably
not come under the head of useful employment,"
he protests. i

"How very wrong of you to throw cold
water on my charity and courtesy, when weare
specially ordered to be both charitable
and courteous. One of my missions to-day

is to attend the opening of the ' Fine Art
Gallery,' at Belderton ; half the pictures in it
are painted by the rector, Mr. Hasket, the
other half by his wife, and the proceeds, if
there are any, are to go to the organ fund ;
it is charity on my part to go and buy some
of these pictures, for I know I shan't like
them. The rest of the day will be given to
courtesy. People who call on me like to be
called on in return."

It would perhaps be better if a portion
of your day were given to duty," the Bishop
says, for he has gleaned what is in the papers
to-day, and he feels it in him to say many
excellent and well-turned sentences on divers
subjects.

He is not fretted and harassed now by
money matters, as he was a while ago 
though he does still darkly deliver himself of
retrenchment sentiments whenever he is put
out  for Fanny is not only quite' off his
hands, but is displaying a generous spirit,
which he never expected to meet with in her.
The truth is that the widowed marchioness

knows very well that she would never have
come to this high estate had it not been for
the decided action taken by her step-mother
on the dramatic occasion, and the gratitude
which Fanny really feels for the possession
of the great good things which are hers
finds expression in a generosity that is as
welcome as it is unlooked-for by Mrs.
Templeton.

But still, though the debts of the past
cease to burden him, the Bishop is sore
perplexed as to how he may most efficaciously
control his wife, and save her from
running into extravagancies for the future.
All Mrs. Templeton's tastes are so refined
and cultivated, that it seems a selfish and
shameful thing not to gratify them ; at the
same time he knows that he has not the
wherewithal to do this, nor has he the
eloquence and courage to say her " nay "
distinctly and definitely.

"If you would be reasonable and listen
to me, we might discuss things calmly and
pleasantly, and make up our minds together

as to what is best to be done, and what we
ought to do," he says to her sometimes,
and she gaily replies 

My dear, that is exactly what you can't
do ! It's not in your nature to discuss any
question calmly and pleasantly ; you always
will fuss and fidget and kifuffle over the
veriest trifles, and then my patience gets
exhausted and I can't combat you."

You use most extraordinary expressions,"
he says, in a deeply huffed tone. " ' Kifuffle '
is a word which I have never met with in
any language or any idiom, and I do not
care to have mushroom slant* used by you
in describing my actions."

44 It does describe your way of doing
things so perfectly," she says, slowly shaking
her head at him. " I wish, oh ! how heartily
I wish, you would take things as they come
and go composedly, and never ' kifuffle ; '
but you can't help it, I suppose ; it's your
cross to be in a perpetual fume, and it's
mine to have to see you in it."

You can be as exasperating as Providence

ever permitted a woman to be," he says ; and
she answers 

Ah ! you little know what I could be if I
gave the reins to my feelings sometimes, when
you exert your prerogative a little too far."

Now it must be conceded that Mrs.
Templeton is not only ill-judged, but is
positively fool-hardy in saying this, for it is
almost flinging down the glove and daring
him to mortal combat. The Bishop is great
and good, of course ; but he is but flesh, and
flesh is weak. It is borne in upon him
strongly that he must conquer this woman,
who is his wife, at once, or be content
henceforth to take the second place in
the diocese.

4k To bring things to a point, and in order
to avoid any more idle and fruitless discussions,
I will tell you that it is my desire
that you neither make any purchases at this
sale of pictures, nor show yourself there ; " he
says, severely, for he feels that it is incumbent
upon him to begin ruling his wife
with as little delay as possible.

4; But I have promised to go, and I have
promised that my daughter shall go with me,
and play her violin at the concert which the
good rector and his wife have got up for the
afternoon," she replies, opening her eyes wide
with amazement, for the spectacle of her
Bishop in an attitude of serious opposition
to her wishes is a novel one to her.

Then you must break your promise, you
must ask to be excused."

Break my promise to gratify your whim*'
she says, with fierce indignation ; " I shall not
do it ! nor"  she adds, with a still finer stroke
" nor shall I ever let it be known, too, that
you counselled me to do it."

With this she leaves him to his own reflections,
which are desperately unpleasant. For
he not only fears that she will expend sums
which his purse can ill afford, on pictures
which his knowledge of art will forbid him to
hang in the Palace, but he a] so dreads that
she will tell everybody that he has ordered
her not to do it, and that he will be held in
mean account in consequence.

The Belderton Rectory is as pretty as any
rectory can be, and its grounds, though not
very extensive, are cleverly laid out so as to
give an impression of space, and capitally
kept. The fine-art exhibition is held in a
long studio or gallery, that has been constructed
with much good management and a very
excellent effect on the top of the stables and
coach-house. Artistic taste, and a power of
utilising all the materials at hand, are evident
in all the arrangements, and Mrs. Templeton
feels justified to herself for half-an-hour in
having struck a blow to come to so well-organised
an entertainment, which is being
held to further such a laudable end.

But after that brief first half-hour, things
look a little different, and she begins to ask
herself, " Is the game worth the candle ? "
The people who flock into the Belderton
Rectory grounds and pervade the fine art
gallery, are well-to-do middle-class farmers
and tradesmen chiefly, and the few exceptions
are chance visitors in the neighbourhood, and
tourists. There are no county people present

to-day, for these latter know that Mr. Hasket's
cordial invitation to all and sundry to come
and be elevated and improved at his fine-art
exhibition, means that he expects that they
will evince their gratitude by purchasing his
pictures. Accordingly, the upper ten of the
locality stay away, and Mrs. Templeton finds
herself in strange waters, as it were.

Moreover, Mrs. Hasket does not exhibit the
sweet, commendable, humble gratitude for the
presence of the Bishop's wife which that lady
in the innermost recesses of her heart has
expected Mrs. Hasket to feel. Altogether
Mrs. Templeton is conscious of having made
a valiant fight for next to nothing, and her
disappointment makes her as vindictive as it
is in her amiable nature to be.

I won't buy a single picture," she says to
Ethel ; " they're rather tea-trayey, every one
of them ; but I would have been a purchaser
if Mrs. Hasket had shown me a little more
civility."

"My dear mother, poor Mrs. Hasket has
three children ill with bronchitis, yet she is

obliged to leave them because she stands
committed to doing her best to make things
go off well to-day," Ethel says, deprecatingly.

Til go and attend to the children ; tell
her I'm gone up to the nursery," Mrs. Templeton
cries, all that is best in her coming to
the fore at once, at the sound of suffering
which she may be able to relieve. So for
several hours the Bishop's wife devotes herself
to the task of soothing, serving, and
entertaining, three poor suffering, querulous
children, and the visitors in the grounds and
the fine-art gallery remark upon her absence,
and say to one another she is so proud, and
stuck-up, and altogether unlike what it
behoves a Bishop's wife to be, that she has
taken herself off as if they were not good
enough for her to consort with, forsooth!

While they are pecking at her she is very
happy, for the children find her companionship
very agreeable, and she hints at chocolate
creams and unlimited almond rock in the
future. Mr. Gifford, coming in in the course
of the afternoon, finds his little patients playing

horses with his future mother-in-law; and
at the sight promptly forgives all her sins of
omission and commission against himself.

You have done these children more good
than all my medicine," he says, cheerily.

I've amused them, that's all ; and
doesn't it prove that ' amusement ' is an
element that ought to be more seriously
studied and aimed at than it is in our
country  social system ; 1 say, never miss an
opportunity of 'amusing' yourself and others''

You're the most charming exponent of
the art of gay-fooling that it can have''

You think so," she asks, brightly ; " eh !
We have sympathies, then, you and I, and
you will applaud me when I tell you that
in the cause of diversion I am going to
take Ethel to Ireland in June ? "

No, no, Mrs. Templeton ! ' :

But, yes, yes, Mr. Gifford," she says,
lightly, but she watches him narrowly the
while.

Ethel will not leave Atherton Towers
till she leaves it for a short time as my wife."

VOL. III. I

You are very imperious."

"It is needful to be so with you, Belle
dame sans merci" lie says, with semi-seriousness.


I have said she shall go to Monkstown."

To the place or the man ? "

To both ; don't be an ogre. Ethel is
your love; don't grudge her socially to
everyone else."

You would think me a fool in your heart
if I acceded to your wishes. You know
what time and absence does P You know
what they have done already for Ethel and
for me."

Like all men you are selfish. Having
found a jewel you want to wear it, and let
no man see it. Can't you trust Ethel ? "

All the world over, for the matter of
that ; but, my dear Mrs. Templeton, I can't
trust you."

I must forgive even that for Ethel's
sake, and because I like you. When you are
my son-in-law I shall like you still more,
and shall be a little bit afraid of you. Till

that time comes I've no doubt I shall
often cross and vex you about Ethel."

Then they S'o out too-ether, for the
concert is commencing, and they both
want to hear Ethel's Caprice on the violin.

Ethel is applauded to the echo, encored
and brought back again and again, until
Mrs. Templeton comes to feel that the
Baskets and their cause are " very deserving."
Acting on this impression, she expends
thirty pounds on pictures which she
can't hang, and then drives back despondently
to meet her Bishop.

dfo

ufJ

i 2

miss gifford's economies.

fOINGr home that evening from Elders
ton, Mrs. Templeton says, after a prolonged
silence :
What a success you had, Ethel ; how
your playing appeals to people. If, seeing
such possibilities before you, if you will
only cultivate them, what good music like
yours would do to a hardened and suffering
people."

You're not proposing to yourself that I
shall take up my fiddle and tramp through
Ireland, are you ? " Ethel says, laughing.

Not tramp through Ireland, certainly :
but I trust to see you giving great pleasure
to the tenantry and dependents at Monks-town
on such occasions as  well, on such
occasions as such people do assemble about
a great place."

In all probability, I shall never be thereto
see them."

"Nonsense, Ethel, you will be there fora
certainty in June ; and after that  well,
the rest must be left to time."

After that, if Lord Monkstown asks us
nicely, Walter and I may go and stay with
him when we get a holiday. Before that,
I distinctly shall not go."

These perpetual arguments, this unceasing
opposition, is very wearing and painful
to me," Mrs. Templeton says, plaintively.
The Bishop opposing me in one direction,
my own child doing the same thing in
another ! Ah ! I am learning by bitter
experience that a Palace is not the place in
which to dwell in peace."

The note of resignation in this speech
suggests to Ethel that if she refrains from
answering it, Mrs. Templeton will probably
drop off to sleep presently, and the discussion
will thus end itself easily for the time. By-and-bye,
if it is renewed, she will enlist the
Bishop on her side, and get him to aid

her in quelling her mother's aspirations,
as regards Monkstown, at once, and forever.


The Bishop can be very masterful and
severe when he likes," the girl tells herself;
"and really he ought to exert his authority,
and stop mother from trying to undermine
Walter now."

As far as she can, unassisted, Ethel has
been making preparations for her marriage in
May. Unfortunately, when her engagement
with the late marquis was broken off, the
whole of her trousseau was countermanded,
and disposed of to another noble fiancee, who
accomplished fates in due time. So now
Ethel has the whole business of ordering and
arranging to go over again, and Mrs. Templeton
obstinately withholds her aid both with
money and counsel.

But the time is drawing near now, and
Ethel has made up her mind to be ready, and
to be properly appointed. Therefore, as the
subject of money to pay for her needs must
be mooted, she resolves to moot it before the

Bishop this night, after dinner, before they
quit the Bishop.

The trio have been dining alone ; the monotony
of the little domestic circle has been
unbroken, even by the presence of the
Bishop's chaplain, who, though he is dull,
and does not talk well, diverts observation
from other things very often, by talking
incessantly.

It has been an exceptionally dull dinner today,
for the Bishop is deeply aggrieved that
his wife has disobeyed his wishes, and gone
to the fine-art exhibition at Belderton. He
will be more aggrieved still when he learns
that she has bought thirty pounds' worth
of pictures, for which a cheque will have
to come out of his pocket tomorrow, when
the works of arts are delivered at his gates.
Perhaps a dim foreboding of this misery is
oppressing him now. At any rate, his taciturnity
is of an order that resembles sulky
silence, and his mood clouds everything,
robbing the dainty dishes and delicate wines
of their choicest flavours.

It is with a great effort that Ethel speaks
at all, and a greater one is required before
she can broach the topic that is of absorbing
interest to her.

Mother, dear*' she begins, u would it be
convenient for you to go out shopping with
me tomorrow, or to let me have some money
to do it by myself ? "

Dear, extravagant child," Mrs. Templeton
says, playfully ; " what do you want money
for ? "

To buy wedding garments with," Ethel
says, blushingly, in spite of her resolve to be
perfectly cool and unembarrassed.

You choose an unfortunate moment for
your request," Mrs. Templeton says, and a
light frown settles on her brow.

The poor child ought not to have been
driven to make it at all ; surely it is your
place to see that your daughter has all that
is necessary," the Bishop says, reproachfully.

I hoped that a wedding outfit would
not be necessary yet," Mrs. Templeton says,
softly. " Much as I like Mr. GifFord, I can't

say that I am anxious to part with my
child to him yet."

There will be no parting, mother," Ethel
says, fondly ; " I shall live in Atherton
Towers and see you daily."

I can't contemplate the prospect with
pleasure." Mrs. Templeton puts her handkerchief
up to her eyes, and Ethel (who does
not know that the deftly-covered eyes are
tearless) feels a monster of filial cruelty and
ingratitude for a moment or two.

' I can't profess to feel what I do not,"
Mrs. Templeton says. " My nature is too
transparent for me to attempt to deceive
anyone ; a child might read me at a glance,
therefore, I may as well confess that I am
hurt, sadly, sadly hurt at this determination
of yours, darling, to make me break my
promise to Lord Monkstown."

"' What promise ? " the Bishop asks,
gruffly.

To take her with us to his place in
June."

Dear mother, 1 told you, from the first,

that I had promised Walter to marry him
in May."

It seems to me, that Ethel's is the sacred
promise that must be kept, and yours a
mere idle social one that may just as well be
broken," the Bishop says. And then he goes
on to ask Ethel how much money she will
want, and to tell her she shall have a cheque
for it tomorrow.

I will be very economical, and do with
two hundred pounds," Ethel says, brightly,
on which Mrs. Templeton's handkerchief
goes to her eyes again, as she exclaims that
there is not a tradesman in Atherton Towers
but would give his daughter a handsomer
sum than that wherewith to buy her wedding
outfit with.

You shall have the two hundred tomorrow,
Ethel, and if you want more you
shall have more," the Bishop says, kindly ;
whereat Ethel gets up and kisses them both,
and thanks them with sparkling eyes.

So the evening ends very happily for Ethel,
but, by-and-bye, there is a scene between

tHJ

the Bishop and his wife, consequent on her
disclosure of the fact of the purchase of
the pictures.

I did it for your credit's sake," she
says, coolly, when he upbraided her more
warmly than is well for two or three
minutes. " I would not have them to say,
that the wife of the Bishop came out of
mere curiosity, and meanly abstained from
spending her money in the church's cause."

You had no business there at all ; I
ordered you not to go ! "

; No business ' to go where I like ! You
ordered me ! I would not stay with the
Archbishop himself, if he used such language
to me," Mrs. Templeton says, towering,
in her sudden assumption of dignity,
several yards above the Bishop's crushed
head. Then with a chilly, " good night,"
she leaves, and remorse, for having given the
reins to his temper and offended his wife,
is the Bishop's sole companion till the
morning.

That she exercises a potent thrall over him,

is amply proved by his restlessness, his sleeplessness,
his nervous debility all through the
weary hours. In the depressing darkness, he
exaggerates his offence against her in his own

on o

mind, and accuses himself of having been
unsympathetic, rude, harsh, and tyrannical to
a tender, fascinating, affectionate, sensitive
creature, who is worlds too good for him. He
forgets all her offences against prudence and
himself, and only remembers what are his
against her. In fact, remorse reduces him
to a state that will, temporarily, make him
abjectly submissive to her will.

Meanwhile, unconscious that her supremacy
is being thus easily re-established over
the Bishop's head and heart, Mrs. Templeton
slumbers softly and refreshingly through the
night, and wakes in the morning in a blithe
and amiable mood.

Presently, with her early cup of tea, comes
a message from the Bishop : " May he come
and speak to her at once ? "

"tell his lordship's man that I am half
asleep, and that my waking half can't argue

unpleasant questions," she says, laughing ;
and the Bishop, who is listening eagerly for a
sound that may be a sign to him, takes heart
of grace from the laugh, and proceeds, without
regarding her message, to her room to
make a reconciliation.

It was more than funny, it was positively
grotesque," Mrs. Templeton says, when she
is describing the scene to Ethel, " to see him
come in in his dressing-gown ; he had his
gaiters on, fortunately, for the preservation of
a particle of his dignity ; if he had been
without them, he would have been a pitiful
figure indeed ; as it was, they helped him to
stand upright, and I kept my eyes steadily on
them, and ignored the rest."

He has a kind heart ; he can't bear beincr
at two with you, mother."

No, because when we're at two, as you
call it, he finds out that he is the weaker one ;
however, we shall be quite a model couple fora
time ; he has promised never to say a word
more about selling the horses, or my buying
those pictures, and you are to have three

hundred pounds down for your trousseau;
and I, on my part, have promised to let you
marry Walter in May, and to say no more
about your going to Monkstown."

Thank heaven for that," Ethel cries,
delightedly. Then she asks 

You'll get fond of Walter, won't you,
mother? He admires you, only he naturally
is always afraid of what you may say ; and
you'll come and see the house that is to be
mine, and say you like that hoo ? "

My dear child ! while the concession fever
is upon me, I shouldn't be in the least surprised
at finding myself weeping upon Miss
GifFord's bony neck, and entreating her to
give me a place in her memory and affections.
Oh ! Ethel, you are having all things smoothed
for you, and you haven't a difficulty to surmount
; but just think what is before me? I
have to write and tell Lord Monkstown all
that is happening and will happen, and he
will say that I have deceived him ! "

At least, I have never done that," Ethel
says.

Walter can never be grateful enough tome
for having been staunch to him through
all the temptations I have had," said Mrs.
Temple ton, as airily and complacently as if
she had not been striving her hardest for
many months to detach her daughter from
Walter Gifford.

The best way for your mother to see the
house will be for you two to come over to
luncheon ; that will give us all something todo,
and Mabel something to think about,"
Mr. GifFord says to his betrothed, when
she tells him of her mother's projected
visit.

So the luncheon is proposed to Mrs.
Templeton, and affably accepted by her ; the
Bishop, too, is included in the invitation, but
he, feeling that while the tour of inspection
of the house is being made, he will be left
alone to ruminate in a strange room without
any of his accustomed surroundings, declines,
gallantly giving as his reason for doing so his
desire to see Ethel reigning as the house's
mistress the first time he enters it.

Walter is careful to give his sister timely
notice of the honour in store for her.

By-the-way, Mabel," he says, one morning,
" I've asked Mrs. Templeton and Ethel
to luncheon tomorrow. Have it all nice;
plenty of fruit and flowers, you know."

I hope I am capable of ordering a
luncheon fit for Mrs. Templeton, or Mrs. anybody
else, to sit down to," Mabel says,
unpromisingly.

I'm sure of that," he says, hastily ; " only
she's a fastidious little lady, delighting in
everything dainty and fantastic ; that's why I
ventured to offer a hint about flowers and
fruit."

Mabel feels her ire rising as she listens.
How can this penniless girl, whom Walter is
going to marry, dare, to bring her fastidious
mother here to luncheon, with the expectation
of having fruit and flowers in abundance in
April, when they are so dear ?

Miss Gifford assumes that her brother
intends her to go to a florist and seedsman
and invest sums in the purchase of some of

the glorious hyacinths and camellias with
which his windows are filled. It does not
occur to her to lay the hedges round Atherton
Towers under contribution for beautiful fern
fronds, and to go out into her brother's garden
and gather baskets-full of snowdrops which
still linger there. The request for "plenty
of fruit and flowers " betokens a new departure
into extravagance, and she girds against
it, and sorrows over it, as if it were symptomatic
of her brother's speedy ruin.

Flowers indeed ! " she says, vengefully
sniffing at an opaque white hyacinth. " If
she were bringing him a penny it would
be different ; but considering she does not
bring him a farthing, it's too much that she
should expect plenty of hyacinths at two
shillings and half-a-crown a piece to decorate
her luncheon-table. I've no patience with
such ways, and I see clearly where they
will lead Walter. Well, Til not be the one to
waste poor Lily's money in any such way ;
there'll be plenty to help him on to ruin
without his sister doing it."

VOL. III. K

It is in vain that the florist puts before
her beautiful baskets full of violets and
clyclamen and snowdrops, at most reasonable
prices, she will have none of them. Flowers
on the table look expensive whether they
are or not, and nothing new shall come
into the house that looks as if money were
spent upon it if she can help it.

It does not occur to Walter to ask any
further questions, or make any further
remarks anent the luncheon, or if it does
occur to him, he has not the nerve to doit
after the rebuff he had received when
he suggested fruit and flowers. He trusts
to his sister's affection for him, as well as
to her sense of responsibility as the presiding
genius of his household, to have everything
as she knows he would like to see it
when he receives Mrs. Templeton as his
guest for the first time.

Now here comes about the inevitable
result when carelessness as to detail daily
obtains in any household that ought to be
well-appointed.

Walter Gifford has not, during his months
of widowhood, insisted on the dinner table
decorations being kept perfect as they were
while Lily lived. At first he was too
miserable to think about them, and the
servants seeing this, grew careless. Then
when he revived, Mabel had taken things
in hand, and had instituted a less decorative
routine altogether. So now, when
he wants to pay floral homage to his love
and her mother, it appears like an out-order
proceeding, and Mabel rebels against
it,

There are plenty of pots full of beautiful
bloom out in the conservatory, but they
belong to the conservatory, and not one of
them will Mabel move from its place. Her
brother feels rather vexed when he takes
Mrs. Templet on and Ethel into his drawing
room, for he knows that they come
from rooms which are permeated with the
perfume of mignonette and every sweet
flower that is in season, while his room is
scrupulously neat and decently ordered, but

K 2

is utterly devoid of anything that suggests
freshness, beauty, and the open air.

A good room, and the furniture is handsome,
yes ! decidedly handsome," Mrs. Templeton
says, critically, poising her glass on
her piquant nose as she speaks ; " but it all
wants pulling about ; the chairs look as if
no lady's hand ever pushed them out of the
order in which the housemaid has set them."
"Mother!" Ethel murmurs, in an expostulatory
tone, remembering Mabel, who
has not appeared yet.

My dear, I was brought here to give
an opinion, and I give it," Mrs. Templeton
says, in dulcet accents ; 4i the evil that I
remark upon may be remedied, but if I professed
unbounded admiration at the existing
order of things, in time I might be expected
to tolerate a pigsty."

"Ethel will soon unbend, ugly straight
lines when she comes here," Walter says,
good-temperedly ; but he is mortified, and
shows it.

Ethel will make this room habitable,

which it is not now," Mrs. Templeton says,
discouragingly ; and Walter does permit
himself to feel that his fascinating mother-in-law
can be an intensely irritating woman.

Miss Gifford comes in as luncheon is
announced, and there are traces of a storm
upon her.

She gives Mrs. Templeton and Ethel an
iron welcome, and then she turns to her
brother and says  '

You might have told me there would 1 ,
be two extra in the kitchen, Walter, and I
should have prepared cook ; as it is she is
quite put out, and you know what cook is
when she is put out."

Mrs. Templeton is too well-bred to notice
this allusion to the irruption into the Gifford
kitchen of her two servants, but Ethel sees
her mother's blood risings and realizes that
the war between her faction and Walter's
will be a lasting one.

Then they go in awkward silence to the
dining-room, where a huge piece of roast
beef keeps a pair of boiled chickens company.

There is not so much as a leaf, much less
a flower, on the table. All is heavy, big,
unappetising, though well cooked. Walter
sees Mrs. Templeton's eyes rove over the corpulent
joint and poultry with an expression
of disgust in them, and he asks, angrily:

Did you think you were catering for the
harvesters' supper at home, Mabel?"

No," she replied ; " but I never allow the
servants' dinner to be upset, and, as you
chose their hot-joint day for your luncheon,
I made it do for both."

COOK IN REVOLT.

fpS. TEMPLETON picks at the contents
of her plate  a ruddy slice
of beef, with a young mountain of
potatoes overshadowing it  as if a portion
of it were poisoned, and she bent on avoiding
that poison. Ethel is unable to eat anything
in consequence of the annoyance she
is feeling at the contrary way in which tidings
are going, and Walter keeps her company in
her almost total abstinence, from indignation
and mortification.

It is not sisterly, it is not womanly of
Mabel to put these awkward stumbling stones
in his and Ethel's path. He Knows Mrs.
Templet on well enough to feel sure that she
will trip over them, and proclaim all the
unpleasantness and pain they cause her. He

views the rapidly growing expression of
placid  almost satisfied  resignation on her
face, with dismay. He knows that she is garnering
up all the least agreeable incidents of
the visit, and that she will spread them and
display them in all their crude ugliness to
Ethel, on their return home.

Why," he asks himself, remorsefully,
has he relied on Mabel at all, at this
delicate juncture ; Mabel, in her selfishness, is
quite capable of doing anything to overthrow
his happiness' In his wrath, he does his
sister the injustice of thinking that it is her
desire to retain the reins of government in
his house, rather than loyalty to the memory
of his dead wife, which has made her give
such an unprepossessing aspect to the
house and the domestic arrangements this
day.

Irritation of mind is a foe to self-possession.
He feels himself growing distrait and
uncomfortable, as the ungenial, unappetising
meal proceeds in grim silence ; and at last,
when he does make an effort to throw off

this undue constraint, and speak of the
subject that is nearest to both Ethel's heart
and his own, namely, their future life together,
he chooses a point that is full of grievance.

When you come here, Ethel, yon must
supply the imagination that our cook is so
terribly deficient in ; she runs the monotonous
round of boiled and roast daily, month
after month, until one ceases to believe in the
existence of any other mode of cooking the
food which is necessary for man."

Mother must let her cook teach ours how
to make entrees and sweets." Ethel says, hopefully,
trusting that the domestic turn which
the conversation has taken will find favour
in Miss Gifford's eyes ; but she is mistaken.
Miss Gifford bustles at the sound of entrees
being ordered by her brother's penniless
future wife, at her brother's expense, on
Lily's money.

Our cook can make very good made
dishes, and did make them, frequently, when
the one who was justified in ordering expensive
tinners in this house was alive," she says,

agitatedly. Then she goes on to observe that
for her part she does not think it right to be
extravagant on money that is not her own,
with a few other remarks of the same order,
which have the effect of depressing Ethel and
infuriating Walter.

I've no doubt you are right," Mrs. Templeton
says, with the same polite suavity she
would display in addressing a savage, or a
maniac. " I've no doubt you are right ;
though it has never seemed to me to be
better economy to cook the animal almost
whole*" ( she glances at the portentously proportioned
beef as she speaks ), " than to have
a little bit of it served up in a way that is
agreeable to the eye as well as to the palate."

Miss GifFord grunts.

It is all very well for people who have
independent property to have fastidious and
extravagant tastes," she says, stiffly; "for
those who haven't, it is dishonest."

I think, if I may ask you to order the
carriage, Mr. GifFord," Mrs. Templeton says,
with ominous politeness, " by the time it

comes round we shall be quite ready to
depart."

Miss Gifford realises that she has gone a
step too far when Mrs. Templeton says this,
and, like all awkward people, she retreats
too suddenly, and thus loses her footing
altogether.

You haven't been over the house yet,
Mrs. Templeton ; won't you come and see
it now ? "

Thanks, no ! " Mrs. Templeton says,
rather faintly. " I have seen quite enough
I mean we have trespassed too long on
your time and courtesy ! "

The carriage is ordered, and comes round
directly, and then, with an audibly drawn
breath of relief, Mrs. Templeton takes her
leave and swoops her daughter off.

Don't mind ! I don't ! " Ethel whispers
reassuringly to Walter, as they are starting.
But he does mind, painfully, and shows that
he does, in rather a marked manner, when
he is left alone with his sister.

Mabel," he says, compelling himself to

speak calmly though his blood is boiling, " do
you know that you have done the most you
can do to-day to mar my happiness? Why
have you shown your sourest side to
Mrs. Templeton?"

If you can bring yourself to use such
language to me, I wonder you don't order me
out of your house at once," she gasps.

I fear there will be no happiness for my
dear Ethel while you are in it," he says,
gloomily.

She gasps again. " That you can bring
yourself to speak of her in that way at all,
shocks me ; but that you can speak to me
about her, knowing as you do that / have
not forgotten that saint in heaven, and all the
benefits she heaped upon you, disgusts me."

"You are fanatic on that point, Mabel,"
he says, severely. " And by the tone you take
you outrage common-sense and human nature
; you wrong Lily's memory by perpetually
using it as a birch-rod to chastise what
you are pleased, with your limited experience
and shortcomings, to consider my shortcomings

and offences : if we are to dwell in peace
and unity, as it behoves brother and sister
to dwell, you must be more reasonable and
womanly in your demeanour to Ethel now ;
and when she is my wife her authority here
must be absolute, her rule unquestioned."

That fine lady mother of hers will lead
her into all sorts of ridiculous and needless
extravagances, and poor Lily's money will be
wasted by an idle, vain woman."

For your own sake I will assume that you
apply those epithets, ' idle and vain ' to Mrs.
Templeton? ' : he says, sternly, upon which
Mabel cries and goes out of the room.

Meanwhile, if Walter is suffering from some
bludgeon blows, Ethel is smarting under some
sabre cuts.

My dear child," Mrs. Templeton says,
shudderingly, as they pass out from Mr.
Gifford's demesne, " it really widens one's
mind to go outside the pale sometimes ; till
to-day I didn't realise that such people
existed in civilization ! "

As whom ? " Ethel asks, coldly.

"As that very extraordinary Miss Gifford ;
if there were not a probability of her being
connected with you, I should really like to
show her to some of my friends ; she is altogether
too curious  quite an abnormal product
of nature, I should say."

As there is a 'certainty' of her being very
nearly connected with me if Walter and I
both live, I hope your love for me will prevent
your holding her up to ridicule."

Dear Ethel ! you must see what a colossal
John she is, though she comes in the form of
Mr. Gifford's sister."

I'm afraid I shall find her no John,"
Ethel says, ruefully. " Still, she is Walter's
sister, and I won't join in running her down;
she has this great claim on me, that she
dearly loves Walter, and thinks of his weal
before everything else in the world ; by-and-bye,
when she knows me better, and sees
that he is my first interest, she will take me
to her heart with him."

"What an aim for you  to conquer that
common-place woman ! What a fate for

you  to settle down contentedly in that
atmosphere of puerile interests and vulgar
plenty! I can't help regretting that my pearl
should be cast before swine''

Tell me at once, mother, that you do not
mean that quotation to apply to Walter ? "

To Walter ! oh, no ! certainly not ; I
couldn't desire a nicer son-in-law than Walter,
but when one sees him with his surroundings
he is apt to get mixed with them in one's
mind ; I hope he has no more sisters, or
cousins, or aunts ? Miss GifFord is a very
painful person to meet in single combat, but
if she came with a string of female Gifford,
all more or less like unto herself, at her back,
she would be appalling."

There's food behind that hard crust, I'm
sure," Ethel says, delivering herself of a
platitude in her ardent desire to wind the
subject up pacifically. But Mrs. Templeton
won't suffer it to be closed without one more
thrust from her two-edged sword.

Perhaps so ; but in biting through that
hard crust you will rasp your mouth so

terribly that you will never again have a
taste to appreciate softer and more delicate
.substances and flavours."

There is truth in these dicta of her
mother's concerning Miss Gifford, Ethel
feels. To live with that hard, rugged influence
in the home atmosphere always,
will test powers of endurance, however
naturally strong these may be, and try a
temper naturally sw 7 feet. " Still, it is well to
be tested and tried in a good cause," to her
the girl tells herself, and, according affectionate
idea, no cause can be better than Walter's.

So she concentrates all her thoughts on
him as much as is possible, and never allows
the shadow of the antagonistic to darken
her mind.

Thanks to the Bishop's thoughtful liberality,
Ethel gets a good and tasteful trousseau  nota
daintily sumptuous one, such as had been
ordered for her when she was thought to be
going to be Marchioness of Monkstown  and
by the time her reparations are complete
the wedding-day is near.

All this time Mrs. Templeton has been
in a state of passive opposition. It is impossible
to find fault with her, for what is
absolutely necessary, what she is called upon
plainly to do, she does. But no one can
say that she does it as if her heart were seton
seeing her daughter married to the prosperous
surgeon. On the contrary, she does
it as if the task were forced upon her unwilling
acceptance.

And all the while that she on her side is
toning down any enthusiastic hopes of happiness
in her married life which Ethel may be
indulging in, Mabel GifFord on hers is making
her brother feel himself to be a miscreant
for marrying again.

She does not openly revile him ! If she
did this, he would be the man to stand erect
upon his hind legs and defend himself from
the aspersion which is cast on him by false
sentiment, and selfish regret morbidly cultivated.
Nor does she sting him by trying
to ignore Ethel ! On the contrary, she drags
Ethel to the fore with persistency, and tries

VOL. III. L

to make everyone feel that Ethel is an all-pervading
and oppressive young power.

His servants, who have been established
with him for some time, and who had learned
to bow the neck to lovely Lily's rule, are
troublesome and rebellious now, when they
hear that a new hand will shortly hold the
reins. They have not found Miss Gifford's
government to their liking, but now that
she is about to be deposed, they drag all her
excellencies to the front, and declare that
though her ways are old maidish and prim,
they would rather serve her than they would
serve Mrs. Templeton.

"For that's what it will be," they say,
prophetically. "Master and the young
missus, they'll just be under her thumb,
for that's where everybody is that comes to
visit her, they du say ; and the Bishop ! lor !
he's that meek with her that a lamb might
laugh at him ; but they do tell that the
Bishop have a temper, too, and do show it
when he dare !  but he aren't show it to
madam."

Miss Gifford encourages this idea in a
quiet, unassuming, blameless way, that gives
her brother no vantage ground of offence,
however righteously offended he may feel.

In these days, just before the wedding,
Miss Gifford takes it into her hard honest
head to be pitiful to the servants, excusing
them from doing their common daily duty,
on the ground that they will so soon have so
many extra and altogether uncalled-for things
to do that humanity bids her to be lenient
to them now.

To her brother, she takes a different tone.

I am not keeping the servants up to
the mark of their work, Walter," she says,
deprecatingly, " because I think it will be advisable
when you make such a great change
as you contemplate, that at the same time,
you take new servants ; the ones you have
may not suit Mrs. Templeton."

Mrs. Templeton will not live here, or be
their mistress ? "

Oh ! excuse me, Walter ; I did not
suppose that she would live here yet, but

L 2

their mistress to all intents and purpose she
will be ! Cook was saying to-day that she
might bring herself to take orders from the
young lady, but she never could from the
old one."

Cook's a beast," Walter Gifford says, with
decision. Then he reminds himself that it
is not cook who is the offensive aggressor
so much as his own sister, and he vows to
moderate his language for the future, and
to teach cook her place.

But this latter is a difficult task  a task
which taxes all his nerve and strength. For
cook, whose religious views are elastic, and
who has impartially " tried " every known
creed and sect, sets herself up like a fretful
porcupine against the Bishop and the church
at this juncture, and announcing herself to bea
" first-class Salvation Artist," hurls most
upsetting messages at the head of everyone
who has to do with the Bishop's belongings.

Her high sense of the duty of self-denial,
in others, makes her eccentric in her way of
dealing with dinners. She refuses to give

Mr. Gifford stuffing with his veal, or mint-sauce
with his lamb, on the ground that he
ought to be very glad to get good, plain,
wholesome meat " without wanting to pamper
hisses up with messes." On being remonstrated
with for her arbitrary conduct, in
thus compelling her master to practise acts of
abstinence to which he has no mind, she proclaims
aloud to all who will listen to her,
that " it's always the way with those poor
souls who fall among church people; they
get to think of nothing but cuttings and
puzzling; and Bishops is the worst of any."

When cook delivers herself of these dicta,
Miss Gifford nods her head, not exactly approvingly,
but as if she feels the arguments
advanced to be unassailable and painfully
veracious ; for she cannot forget the way in
which Mrs. Templeton "hurried over her
food," on that never-to-be-forgotten day of
the inauspicious luncheon.

Through all this atmosphere of discouragement
and disapprobation Ethel fights her way
single-handed, for Mrs. Templeton gives her

no aid, and Walter ceases to notice little
thrusts and blows which wound the sensitive
soul of a woman to the quick.

That Miss Gifford will pervade her homelike
a cold fog by-and-bye, Ethel knows ; but
she promises herself that never by word or
look will she suggest that the fog be moved to
another sphere. " If I can dispel it by taking
sunshine into the house, well and good," the
girl tells herself, and the mere fact of coming
to this resolution enables her to bear with
Miss Gifford much better than that lady
deserves.

It is to be a very quiet wedding. Mrs.
Templeton, though in her heart she is well
enough satisfied with the match, keeps upto
the last the appearance of thinking that
"Ethel ought to have done better." This
being her attitude, she falls in readily with
the united wish of Walter and Ethel to be
joined together quietly and unostentatiously.

Fanny, Marchioness of Monkstown, recognises
the occasion by sending Ethel a plate
painted (rather crudely) by her own fair

hands, together with instructions how to have
it mounted cheaply in plush or velvet.

And anonymously there comes a magnificent
set of turquoises and diamonds, and
the turquoises are arranged as forget-me-nots !

Ethel knows who is the donor of this parting
reminder, and it is no slur on her loyalty to
Walter to record that she cries a little as she
looks at "Marcus Boyne's present." To her
he will never be the Marquis of Monkstown ;
he will live in her memory as " Marcus Boyne
the boy who vowed that he would never
forget her."

DOMESTIC COUNSEL.

~ ' Year has passed away since Ethel's
marriage. The girl has merged
into the matron, and the matron
in spite of all prognostications to the contrary,
is one of the happiest and most contented
women in the county.

It is hard on Mrs. Templeton that this
should be the case. Not that the little
butterfly woman is an unnatural mother,
who would rejoice in her daughter's unhappiness.
But she has uttered many a
prophecy concerning the repentance which
must be Ethel's portion, as she (Ethel) has
insisted on marrying a man who is not
what Mrs. Templeton calls " one of us."
Now it is patent to everyone who knows
Mrs. Walter GifFord that not one of these
prophecies have been fulfilled. Ethel is a

happy wife and a contented woman, though
cook still reigns in the kitchen, and Miss
Gifford's fog-like presence still pervades
the house.

Once or twice Mabel has made a feint
of wishing to leave the home which Lily
asked her to share, and which (she never
forgets this) Lily's money is maintaining.
But very little steady well-meant opposition
from Ethel defeats and uproots this design.
So Mabel is here still, and is (though she
will not acknowledge it to herself even)
far happier than she was before her
brother's second marriage.

It is, she finds, impossible to go on disliking
Ethel ; Ethel is too honest and straightforward
and kind for dislike or aversion to
reign long in anyone's breast about her. But
Miss Gifford stands to her guns to this extent
she will find faults and flaws and weak
places in Ethel's system of housekeeping.

She does not exactly denounce certain
things as " faults," nor does she accurately
point out where the weak places are. But

she is eloquent in describing what she should
do were she mistress of an establishment ; and
her memory becomes a ghastly nuisance when
she rakes up reminiscences of how her
mother and an aunt, who were celebrated
housekeepers in their day, " managed."

If I were you, Ethel, I shouldn't have
the blinds drawn up while the sun is on
the windows ; your furniture will be faded
before it's half worn out," she says, "if the
blinds are up." And if they are down, she
is sure to remark 

How you can bear such gloom in a room
you sit in so much I can't think : I call it
wicked to shut out the sunshine when God
gives it to us."

There is nothing mean about Ethel.
When she pulls the blinds up or down at
her sister-in-law's bidding, she does not remind
the latter that her advice respecting them
yesterday was exactly the reverse of that
given to-day. She acts on the suggestion
without an opposing word, and for the
moment Miss Gifford is grimly satisfied.

But so many other little things crop up.
It is not only the blinds which will go up
or come down at the wrong time, but it is
the " butter," which melts away miraculously,
and the " unconscionable quantity "
of clothes which go to the laundress weekly,
and " the way the kitchen coals go." Miss
GifFord does not suggest any remedy for
these evils, but she " names them," and it
is on record she " names them ''' so constantly,
that Ethel puts her hands over her
ears and shrinks from the hearing.

People  independent, uninterested people
in Atherton Towers, begin to say that the
Bishop " looks shaky," and it is a fact
that he mentions in confidence to several
of his friends that he " is not feeling quite
so young as he was." He depends very
much on Walter Gifford now, for Walter
has got to know most of the cracks and
crevices in the Bishop's mind, and it is
with the mind quite as much as the body
that this skilful young doctor deals. So it
happens that the Bishop comes to Ethel's

house frequently as a friend, and Walter goes
to the Palace frequently as a physician. And
all the while Mrs. Templeton holds her pretty
head aloft, and pities Ethel for having
married in that sphere ; " and " deplores "
lightly and gracefully the fantastic fortune
which has made her (Mrs. Templeton) the
mother-in-law of a country practitioner.

Mr. GifFord's practice is a wide and daily
increasing one. The distances he traverses
daily are great, and his young wife accompanies
him often, generally on horseback.

Ethel rides  as she does everything else
which she attempts to do  well, and it is the
chief amusement of her quiet life in Atherton
Towers to ride long distances for pleasure,
when her husband does so professionally ;
and against this harmless habit of hers, her
sister-in-law, Mabel, girds unceasingly. She
does not say much to Ethel on the subject,
but she shakes her head ominously when
it is mooted, as it often is, at breakfast or
luncheon, by Walter's inviting Ethel to ride
his rounds with him, and she (Mabel) talks

about it to her acquaintances and to the
servants.

If, as often is the case, Ethel goes out in
the early morning, Mabel is sure to penetrate
into the kitchen, and there to discover the
presence of some extraneous matter that
ought not to be there.

"I chanced to go into the kitchen this
morning, Ethel, and to my horror I found one
of your silver dish-covers put down on the
stone floor quite carelessly. Of course, it's
not my place to say anything to the servants,
but I did venture to say to cook that it was
not the way to treat a valuable piece of
silver, and she actually told me that ' you
never said anything, and didn't care.' That's
the impression your servants have of you,
you see, and it will make them more idle and
negligent than they are already," Miss Gifford
says to Ethel, as the latter comes running into
the hall one morning, flushed and happy,
fresh from a good gallop.

Cook is vindictive, I fear," Ethel says :
I gave her notice to leave yesterday, and

she is trying to revenge herself on me by
treating our property badly, and giving me a
name I don't deserve for indifference to the
weal of my house."

Well, my dear, I say nothing, but for a
married woman you are out of your house
a great deal. It is Walter's fault quite
as much as yours ; he is always asking you
to go, and he ought to think if you do
not."

I go out for health's sake, and to be a
companion to Walter ; it's clearly my duty
to be that, isn't it now?" Ethel says, good-tempered.


64 Well, my dear, while you hold those principles,
and act on those principles, your house
will be mismanaged, and your furniture will
be carelessly treated and destroyed ; the mistress's
eye and hand ought to be everywhere
incessantly in a house."

Such ubiquity is needless, if servants are
even moderately conscientious."

My dear, none of them are that ; servants
are what their mistresses make them ; and

cook is a specimen of what you are making
yours."

"If I remember rightly, cook was very
much the same as she is now when I came
here, Mabel."

I never knew her put a silver dish-cover
on a stone floor while she had me to deal
with her," Miss Gifford says, triumphantly ;
It's not my place to interfere, I am well
aware of that ; but I can't see Walter's things
wilfully destroyed without mentioning it."

The episode of the dish-cover is still darkening
Miss Gifford's mind when Mrs. Templeton
comes in one afternoon to five o'clock tea
with her daughter ; and five o'clock tea is an
institution that finds steady and determined
disfavour with, and opposition from, Miss
Gifford.

In the old days, while poor Lily lived,
Mabel had not approved of the modern
custom, but she had never denounced it. As
with every other thing that Lily did or had,
Mabel had silently tolerated what she did not
like. But that Ethel should take off her

habit, and induct herself into a becoming tea-gown
daily at five, and two hours after dress
for dinner, seems to Miss Gifford a frivolous
frittering away of time which she might be
employing usefully.

Miss Gifford comes into the room this day
just as Mrs. Templeton has commenced unburdening
her mind, by recounting to Ethel
some of the Bishop's developing peculiarities
or " meanness," as she calls them, and the
interruption is not a welcome one. Mrs.
Templeton is one of those women who find
actual pleasure in dwelling on and talking
about the smaller crosses of their daily life.
When the Bishop's wife has told her daughter
of the cruel way in which the conjugal reins
have been tightened lately in the matter of
her personal expenditure, half her animosity
against the system of control which the Bishop
has inaugurated evaporates ; and Ethel
knows this, therefore she listens sympathetically
to the words which carry off all wrath.

But it is impossible for Mrs. Templeton to
speak thus openly and feelingly before Miss

Gifford, and as Miss GifFord sourly rejects
Ethel's offer of a cup of tea, her presence
does seem to be a very superfluous one on this
occasion, and Mrs. Templeton does not feel at
all disposed to conciliate her.

It is difficult to imagine that there was a
time when people hadn't afternoon tea, isn't
it ? " Mrs. Templeton asks, and Mabel  in
whom the spirit of controversy is always
strong when Mrs. Templeton is present  accepts
the challenge, and goes into action
immediately.

Not at all difficult to imagine a time you
must remember very well ; it's long since you
were old enough to recollect all about it
very well that this new-fangled fad has been
introduced."

The woman who first made it the fashion
deserves a statue; it ought to be erected in
her honour by her grateful country-women."

It's a waste of time and of tea, and ita
nasty, idle, gossiping custom," Miss GifFord
says, hotly. " What women want to be stuffing
themselves for all day long I can't under-vol

III. M

stand ; it's an unhealthy practice as well as a
wasteful one, like many another new fashion."

Mabel is very faithful to old ways ; are
you not, dear ? " Ethel says, brightly.

When they're better than new ones I am,
most certainly ; late dinners and five o'clock
teas are my abomination ; how servants
stand it I can't think ; their work is never
done, and instead of having nice long evenings
for needlework, they don't get dinner
things cleared away and washed up till ten
o'clock at night."

"But people had suppers in those primitive
days which you lament, when they dined at
twelve, or one, or whatever time they did
dine."

They didn't have three or four courses
for supper ; and reasonable people, who had
a proper regard for their own health and
for their servants' comfort, were contented '
with cold suppers ; but these are disregarded
now ; middle-class people must ape the ways
of their betters, and turn their early dinners
into luncheons, and their suppers into nasty

unwholesome hot heavy meals, that make
them drowsy all the rest of the evening, and
often give them sleepless nights."

Not necessarily ' nasty ' and ' unwholesome'"
Mrs. Templeton says, gently. "Ethel,
dear, I've heard of a cook who will suit you
-admirably ; she has been living with Lady
Blantown, Lady St. Just's sister, and is only
leaving because Lady Blantown is going
abroad."

I am afraid she will want higher wages
than I feel inclined to give," Ethel replies,
hoping to close the subject, which is fraught
with danger since Mabel is present. But
Mrs. Templeton is mildly persistent in keeping
it open.

My dear child, Lady St. Just thinks you
may get her for twenty, and you won't get
anyone to give you what's fit to eat under 
that."

I should think that Ethel will hardly
feel justified in giving twenty, when she can
get quite as good a cook as she requires for
fifteen," Mabel puts in.

M 2

Can she really ? A cook who can do
entrees and sweets for fifteen ! ' :

I suppose Walter and Ethel can live
without entrees ? "

They might, on an emergency," Mrs.
Templeton says, meditatively. " Some people
do, I know, live entirely on large portions
of sheep and oxen, which they call ' plain
joints.' 'Plain' enough, in all conscience I
6 Ugly,' I should call them ; having them
at all is a remnant of barbarism. I like to
have my animal effectually disguised  dressed
in such a way that its original beefiness or
muttoniness is completely concealed."

And I like to know what I am eating,"
Mabel says, bluntly.

I met a sucking-pig once at dinner when
I was very young, and the impression it made
on me was very painful ; I haven't got over
it yet," Mrs. Templeton says, with a shudder.

Walter is extremely fond of sucking-pig,"
Mabel asserts ; " there are few things
he likes better, always did from a boy ; if
you want to give him a dinner he would

really enjoy, Ethel, you'll order a sucking-pigs"



I will ; but I must arrange to go out

the day it's cooked," Ethel says.

The one I saw looked so pathetically
like an infant," Mrs. Templeton says, plaintively
; " it was long before I got over the
feeling that the people who ate it were
cannibals."

I am thankful to say I have no absurd
affectation of that sort about me," Mabel
says, sturdily ; " the finest lady in the land
might be satisfied with the delicacy of it."

"I wonder if Lady Blantown's cook will
know how to treat it," Mrs. Templeton says ;
and Ethel answers hastily 

I mustn't think of her, really, mother ;
Mabel is right ; twenty pounds a year is too
much for me to give a cook."

"I believe some people enjoy economy,
but I didn't know you were one of them,
Ethel."

I think every wife ought to take proper
pride and pleasure in practising economy,

especially if she brings her husband no
fortune," Mabel says, severely.

No one approves more highly than I do
of a broad and liberal system of economy ;
but when people descend to the practice of a
lot of petty details, they waste time in a way
that I consider quite wicked, besides narrowing
their minds."

Now, mother, you're trying to make
Mabel think you an extravagant and bad
housekeeper, and you're neither," Ethel says,
rebukingly.

I am what Miss Gifford would probably
consider an extravagant and bad housekeeper,
for I don't allowance my servants. I
don't think Ave have any right to try and
regulate their appetites to the extent of saying
that they shall eat so much and no more
bread, and butter, and sugar."

And I think it a very wise rule, and one
that Ethel would do well to observe ; no
better housekeepers ever lived than my
mother and aunt, and they made it a
practice to weigh out everything that was

wanted for the week every Monday morning
before ten o'clock ; it was no use any one
asking for anything after ten ; that was
the time set down, and that was the time
kept ; everything went on like clock work."

How monotonous it must have been."

It was the monotony of perfect order
and comfort, Mrs. Templeton."

Here is Walter ! " Ethel cries, hailing his
entrance as a happy diversion. " Mother
and Mabel have been having an argument
about economy."

It's a word I abhor," Walter says, and
his sister expresses a fervent hope that he
may never have to practice it compulsorily.

But it's the fashion for young people to
live up to their incomes, and it's a fashion
that brings want in its train."

Miss Gilford does not take a cheerful
view of things," Mrs. Templeton says, rising.
Ethel, dear, may I order the carriage,
think well before you decide against taking-lady
Blantown's cook : it's better to spend
four or five pounds a year more in wages

than to spend it in doctor's bills, though to
be sure Walter wouldn't charge you anything
for pills and draughts ; but inferior
cookery is very trying to the temper as
well as to the digestion."

Mrs. Templeton glides away through the
hall still discoursing on this subject ; and
Walter accompanies her, treating her with
greater deference, it seems to Ethel, than he
has ever shown to her before. As they get
out of his sister's hearing he pauses, and putting
his hand quietly on Mrs. Templeton's,
says 

"I have just come from the Palace; the
Bishop is not well, and all your strength and
composure will be called into requisition ;
shall Ethel go home with you ? "

Not really ill, not very ill ? "

Very ill, I fear, Mrs. Templeton," he says,
gently, and Ethel darts forward at the
moment trembling with sorrow and alarm.

What is it, mother ? Walter, what is
frightening her ? "

"The Bishop is ill, dear, suddenly ; worse

than I have seen him at all ; your mother is
naturally startled by the news."

Will he live P " Mrs. Templeton asks, with
trembling lips, and Walter Gifford says nota
word.

I shall go with yon, dear," Ethel says,
flinging loving arms round her mother's neck,
and in another minute, Ethel, in hat and
jacket, is helping Mrs. Templeton into the
carriage.

I shall be a pauper if he dies now," Mrs.
Templeton says, in white bewilderment. " Oh !
Ethel, isn't it awful that nature makes me
think of myself in the midst of this calamity,
when I ought to be thinking of him solely,
poor man ; how can nature be so unsympathetic
and ill-bred?"

A NEW DEPARTURE.

f: shee is gloom in the Palace ! The
Bishop has pursued an inoffensive
course in Atherton Towers for a
great number of years, and now that he is
ill unto death, people sedulously look up his
good qualities, and begin to find that they
could have better spared a better man. Sympathy,
in fact, is rampant, and expresses itself
in a way that is very tiresome to the Bishop's
hall-porter, for though the bell is muffled and
the knocker encased in kid, both are plied
assiduously and continually by anxious
enquirers.

Fanny, Marchioness of Monkstown, is
summoned and comes, but her presence does
not seem to bring peace. She constantly
remarks to Mrs. Templeton that she "has to

think of herself," and Mrs. Templeton, who
is not wise in her generation, replies to the
effect that she has been labouring under the
impression that "herself" is the one person
about whom Fanny has been thinking during
the whole term of their acquaintance with
one another.

'" But now it is imperative," Fanny says ;
dear papa cannot certainly be in his right
mind if he looks to me to do anything ; I
have quite enough to do to keep up my
position."

Quite enough, I should say ; I think all
your energies must be taxed, Fanny," her
step-mother says, glibly.

Of course my inclination would lead
me to aid you," Lady Monkstown says, and
Mrs. Templeton waives away the faint
proffer.

I must suffice to myself, as I have always
done ;" she says, and then she goes on, " if the
worst comes, I can be a hospital nurse.
When, at that dreadful time when Lord
Monkstown died, Walter said I had the

nursing power ; and the dress is very pretty
and becoming ; I shall never forget seeing
Ada Cavendish wear it in the New Magdalen.
I almost feel like her as I think of it,"
Mrs. Templeton continues, with enthusiasm,
and she did ' nurse ' so splendidly in the
play."

I shall never give my consent to your
doing anything of that sort," Fanny says,
with disgust ; " you must remember that you
have to consider me as well as yourself;
between us, I should think Ethel and
I can arrange a modest little income for
you, if papa leaves you poorly off, as we
fear."

My blushes will burn me up when I have
to thank you for an income, Fanny," Mrs.
Templeton says, and the poor woman wishes
with all her heart that she could say something
more cordial, and cannot do it.

It comes at last, that end which they have
been dreading, and Mrs. Templeton is left
quite unprovided for. The Bishop has been
for a long time not only living up to his

income, but exceeding it, and his income dies
with him.

The poor woman makes a brave struggle
to appear valiant and harassed, but she is
only a woman ; and the prospect of being a
penniless one for the remainder of her life
is a pitiably painful one. Just at first there
is too much excitement and confusion for
anyone of them to practically realise that
Mrs. Templeton's independence is a thing of
the past. But the truth comes home to them
with melancholy force, when it is found that
all that remains is the furniture, and the
right of disposing of this to the best advantage
for the benefit of the late Bishop's
creditors.

"Your home is with your children; " Walter
Gifford says to her ; " you can trust us to
make it a happy one for you."

She does not reject the proposition when
he makes it to her. She is too refined, and
is endowed with too much tact ever to offer
rough opposition to a scheme that is proposed
to her, but to Ethel she says :

Walter's proposal and manner of making
it were both perfect ; he is full of manly,
generous feeling, and I really love him like a
son, but I can't bring myself to be a burden
on him."

Mother, my happiness is so perfect now,
don't mar it by refusing to come to us ; I
shall feel that you don't believe in and rely
upon Walter if you won't come."

My lot is a very hard one," Mrs. Templeton
says, " but I won't make it harder by
indulging in vain regrets and useless repining
; if Walter didn't exist, or if he were a
poor man, I should have to rely upon myself
entirely ; other women have to maintain
themselves, why should not I ? "

What can you do, dearest ? " her daughter
asks.

What do other self-supporting women
do?"

Some write novels, some paint, some
teach ; you can do neither of these things,
dear mother, and you break my heart by
proposing to stand alone in any such way."

No, I can't write novels, nor can I paint,
and defend me from ever attempting to
teach ; but I'll create a demand for a new
employment for ladies like myself, who have
refined tastes and no means of their own
wherewith to gratify them. Oh! I've thought
the subject out during these last few sleepless
nights, Ethel, and I've the will to make my
plan succeed."

She looks so triumphant and assured of
success already, that Ethel reluctantly asks
that the plan may be unfolded to
her.

I require no capital to start my business,"
Mrs. Templeton says, relapsing into her old
airy manner ; " I require no introductions
and no patronage. I shall merely advertise
in the Morning Post, the Queen, and any
other lady's paper I can think of, that I am
ready, for a certain remuneration, to design
and superintend the furnishing or the rearrangement
of the houses of noblemen and
gentlemen of property. There are thousands
of people in this vulgar, tasteless world, who

must be conscious that they are vulgar and
tasteless, and who will therefore be glad to
avail themselves of my services. You see,
Ethel, I have an instinct for colour and form ;
I shall introduce combinations that have
never been dreamt of before. I shall impart
individuality to houses, instead of letting them
all be furnished on conventional lines ; my
occupation will often bring me into the
society of well-bred and agreeable people  "

Who will regard you as something akin
to the tradespeople from whom they buy the
cabinets and carpets and cretonnes which you
will select."

That will be the misfortune of their
ignorance ; but I fear no such fate. At
present I am in love with my own idea, and,
shall begin carrying it out by offering to make
Boyne Grate habitable. Fanny can stand any
amount of dreary ugliness, but when I point
out to her that at a very trifling cost I can
make her house attractive, she will patronise
ane, I'm sure."

I shall leave the task of persuading you

to relinquish your idea, to Walter," Ethel
says, sighing, but Mrs. Templeton refuses to
be correspondingly doleful.

Walter's eloquence will all be thrown
away, dear child ; and in time both he and
you will admit I am right in striving to be
honourably independent, instead of sitting
down in supine idleness, and becoming a
burden on my children."

It is a fixed idea with her, and no goodwill
come of combating it now," Walter
says, when his wife tells him of her mother's
plan. " A few disappointments will damp her
enthusiasm ; comfort yourself, my dear, your
mother will be discouraged in a fortnight,
and will then come to us of her own freewill."


As Mrs. Templeton has herself projected,
she makes her initial effort in her new profession
at Boyne Gate.

The furniture at Boyne Gate is the accumulated
rubbish of many generations. Still,
buried in this rubbish are many beautiful as
well as valuable articles. For example, in an

VOL. III. N

  m   . -

attic, Mrs. Templeton lights upon many yards
of rarely worked tapestry, upon broken (but
easily mended) Indian and Italian cabinets ;
and in various dark corners of the house she
finds old oak chairs and buffets and tables
which, when collected together, will do
for a handsome and artistic dining-room
suite.

And I never even noticed them," Fanny
candidly confesses ; " and I should have gone
on to the end of the chapter, contented with
that mahogany and horse-hair set, hideous as
it is ; the things seem to have grown by
magic since you came, Mrs. Templeton."

I have found my vocation," that lady
says, triumphantly.

And one of it's greatest charms to me
is that you have effected this transformation
in the dining-room without expense," Lady
Monkstown says, approvingly; "it's just rearrangement,
nothing else  the art of putting
old things in a favourable light ; how well
that tapestry looks against that end wall ;
I am quite impatient to see the change

you will effect in the drawing-room and
boudoir."

I shall wreck them first," Mrs. Templeton
says, and have them repainted and
papered "

I think that quite an unnecessary expense,"
Lady Monkstown interrupts.

My dear Fanny, it is absolutely essential ;
would you put those fine old marqueterie
cabinets and escritoires against a white
watered shiny paper with a border of
cabbage roses: you cripple me at the outset
by objecting to the re-painting and papering
; I shall send up to Morris, describing the
most prominent furniture, and he will send
a paper in true artistic keeping ; I shall
have those odious carpets taken up, and put
Persian rugs in their place ; you will hardly
know your own house in a week."

I shall not afford Persian rugs ! " Fanny
says, definitely ; upon which Mrs. Templeton
sweetly and serenely declares that " as she
cannot work in chains, she must cancel the
agreement."

N 2

So terminates her first engagement rather
abruptly ; and it is altogether unfortunate
that it should be so, for Lady Monkstown, in
disgust at the unseemly state in which her
house is left, and, in a state of hopelessness
about bringing order out of chaos, and beauty
out of ugliness, speaks of it as " Mrs. Templeton's
failure'' and altogether neglects to say
anything about her own repression of the
new papers and the Persian rugs.

I shall try new pastures," Mrs. Templeton
writes to Ethel ; " a prophet is rarely one
in his own country ; I am going to London
to make a few bold strokes and carve my
own road to fortune. My advertisement is
rather attractive, ' Mrs. Templeton, Artistic
Adviser.' Lady St. Just has refuted my offer
of superintending the furbishing up of her
London house in the most resolute manner :
My house is quite dingy enough already,'
she writes ; ' I don't want it made to look
more mediaeval and miserable than it does
already.' So rude and crude of her, isn't it ?
Monkstown is so different ; he writes to ask,

6 If I will do him the great honour and service
of re-organising every house he possesses,'
and adds, ' I shall treat you as great physicians
who cure other evils are treated : as
their fees range from fifty to a hundred
pounds, so shall I do myself the pleasure
of giving you the same on every occasion of
consulting you ! ' Isn't he liberal and charming
? And don't you sometimes regret  No !
I will not tempt you to admit that you do,
but I will ask you to allow that he is deserving
of more than he has got, shall I
say."

So for a time poor Mrs. Templeton sails
upon a prosperous sea, for just so long a
time, in fact, as Lord Monkstown's magnanimity
allows her to ring incessant changes
in the arrangement and furniture of his town
and country houses. But when she has torn
down and built up, and frittered away a
good deal of time and money, and finally
pronounced her task complete, fresh clients
do not spring up, and the poor Artistic
Adviser's occupation is gone.

But she is in funds for the time, and she is
endowed with a sanguine spirit. That she
does not seem likely to prosper in the profession
which she has enterprising invented
does not depress her for more than a day
or two. Like Cleopatra, " age cannot wither
nor custom tame " this wonderfully young-hearted
woman.

Again a letter comes to Mrs. Walter Gifford
fraught with hopefulness from Mrs. Templeton.
She has resuscitated the memory
of an early dream of art and ambition,
she says, and this dream is that she shall
go on the stage !

To her credit be it said that difficulties
do not deter her from struggling to carry out
her aim, since she has resolutely refused
her children's earnest counsel against her
pursuing the histrionic course. She puts
herself under the tuition of an able, accomplished,
and assiduous instructor, who?
strangely enough, grand actor as he is in
tragedy himself, is an even finer teacher and
critic of female comedy parts.

And if Mr. Copley Fielder is an able
master, it must be admitted that his ability
has never been exercised upon an apter, or
more capable pupil than Mrs. Templeton. It
is in vain that those who are in the secret of
what she is striving for, deride and denounce
as futile the efforts she is making to secure
success. It is in vain that they proclaim her
age ; averring that the first imperative condition
for a first appearance upon the stage is
youth. It is equally in vain that they deny
her still sylph-like figure, and say she has no
stage presence ! Mrs. Templeton takes no
heed at all of sneer or innuendo, but just goes
on her laborious path perseveringly and undauntedly,
until the best judges declare that
if those command success who deserve, then
is Mrs. Templeton destined to fill a prominently
placed niche in the Temple of Fame.

Ethel, down at Atherton Towers, reading
judiciously worded preliminary notices of her
mother's forthcoming appearance as "Constance
in the Love Chase," is full of sorrowful
fear and sickening foreboding. Her

mother's letters are full of buoyant, happy
anticipation, but Ethel's heart sinks lower and
lower as she reads the self-confident epistles.

Mother's voice is so low and light, it
won't half fill even a small house," she says,
deploringly, to Walter ; and he, having made
up his practical, exact, and impartial mind
that Mrs. Templeton is going to make a
colossal failure, and then return in penitence
into the wholesome obscurity of a home
under his roof, replies,

It won't make a particle of difference to
the result whether she is heard or not ; when
a new actress appears on the boards people
go to see a young girl, who may reasonably
be expected, whatever her beauty and talent
in the present, to develop a far greater
amount of both in the future. If they don't
find what they go to see they're disappointed
and disgusted, and I fear that's what they
will be with your mother."

Mother's a very pretty, graceful woman,
and her manner is the most fascinating I
ever saw," Ethel says, with filial loyalty.

She is all you say  in your eyes, darling,
and 1 like you for believing in her chances
of success ; but all the same the public will
look at her from a less favourable point of
view, and I would have you brace yourself
to read some cruel and pungent criticism."


With what appears " reckless daring," to
the croaking band who foresee nothing but
ignominious defeat for Mrs. Templeton,
that lady, it is decided by her manager
and instructor, shall make her debut at
Manchester !

The defiant daring of this decision creates
a furore before the event that means either
a brilliant success or a blighting failure. For
Manchester is known to be a terrible test
of both the nerves and talents of even well-seasoned,
time-tried, and hardened actors
and actresses. Its audiences are highly
cultured in dramatic knowledge, and are
keenly critical. How, then, may a middle-aged
woman, who has never put her foot
on any stage, dare to hope to pass unscathed

through the awful ordeal of an expectant
Manchester house !

But Mrs. Templeton does dare to hope that
she may do this, and her manager-tutor does
not throw anything like a wet blanket over
the fire of her ambition.

CHAPTER XI.

A STAR OF STRENGTH.

fHpSANGUAGE can't tell how I feel for
ygflg Walter and you, my dear," Miss
Gifford says to Ethel, whenever
any fresh paragraph appears in any one of
the newspapers about Mrs. Templeton. It
is really almost miraculous the way in which
Miss GifFord, who has never been known
to look at a paper before this epoch, hunts
down the lightest line of reference in the
press to Mrs. Templeton.

She goes straight to every allusion to the
forthcoming actress, however deeply it maybe
buried in " Theatrical Notes," or " London
Letters," with an unerring instinct that distances
many an experienced reader. And
she dwells upon these allusions, serving them
afresh, word for word, with an unfavourable

emphasis that is all her own to everyone
whom she may meet in these days.

I see the Daily Telegraph says that your
mother's ' ambition is laudable, if nothing
else ; ' now, one can but feel that what they
mean by that is, that though ' laudable, it's
misplaced ; ' that's what I've feared myself all
along."

Then, Mabel, you must remember that
you are not a fair judge ; you know less than
I do, even, of the requirements of a dramatic
career, and I know absolutely nothing."

No ! You are right in saying I know
nothing about the stage. I have always
made a point of standing aloof from its
snares and abominations."

When Mabel says this, Ethel quotes a
verse from one of the Bab Ballads, relative
to the experiences of the Rev. Micah Soles,
who, acting on the advice of his Bishop,
passes a few hours in that " penitential fane
called Drury Lane."

But Miss Gilford fails to see any point in
the quotation, and by way of answering it

falls back on her former statement of having
sedulously preserved herself from all the
snares and allurements of the drama in any
form.

I tremble to think of what's before them
all. Mrs. Templeton's flightiness was a proverb,
I'm told, in Atherton Towers, even when
she was in private life ; what it will be now,
when she gets among ballet-girls and pantaloons,
it is impossible to say."

It is recorded with sorrow that the above
uncharitable remarks are made by Miss Gifford
in a loud under-tone to a friend whom
she meets one morning in Turner's shop.
Mental agony is vividly depicted on the
friend's face as she listens, for she is aware
of the propinquity of Lady St. Just, who is
showing herself in good colours now, as a
staunch adherent of Mrs. Templeton's, and a
warm com mender of that lady's determination
to struggle for freedom and independence.

To Miss Gilford's amazement, and Miss
Gilford's friend's dismay, her ladyship begins
a free fight at once with the words :

Mrs. Templeton's ' mightiness,' as you call
it, never hurt a human being, and that's
more than can be said of anyone's censorious
tongue. And now she's going to make a
name for herself, that all whom you pity for
belonging to her, Miss Gifford, may welland
reasonably envy ; the little woman has
real grit in her," Lady St. Just adds, turning
to one of her own ilk who happens to be in
the shop at the time ; " she'll never be a Lady
Macbeth, but she'll be a bewitching Miss
Hardcastle, and a bewildering neighbour
Constance."

I never heard of either of these ladies,"
Miss Gifford says, lamely, for Lady St. Just
fixes Mabel with a stony stare from which
there is no escape. " I never heard of either
of these ladies, but I do think there's something
infra dig. in my brother's wife's mother
playing at being them."

Lady St. Just laughs gruffly, but heartily.

Never you mind," she says, " don't disturb
yourself about Mrs. Templeton's social status,
for depend upon it she will never take you into

consideration when she is compassing it ; she
is a very clever and sprightly little lady, and
if she does all I expect her to do I shall regard
her as the chief attraction to my ' at homes
next season, if I am fortunate enough to get
her."

These words permeate Turner's, and exercise
a wholesome restraint on the imaginations of
many who have been thinking that Mrs.
Templeton is on the high road to perdition.
But on the whole, " Turner's " takes the safe
and Philistine view of Mrs. Templeton's
exploit, in spite of its aristocratic advocate and
defender ; and their name is legion who prophecy
dark things concerning the woman who
is going forth on a treacherous smiling sea to
help herself !

As for Ethel, she has Manchester on the
brain in these days of suspense. She rakes
up every immaterial and valueless fact concerning
it and its inhabitants that comes
within her reach. And when she has done
this, she finds she is as far as ever from the
knowledge of how " they will receive mother."

On the day before the initial performance
is to come off, a request breaks from Ethel's
lips straight away from her heart.

Let me go to Manchester, Walter ? If
she fails she will want me; if she gets through
she will want me still more ; let me go ? "

You are not strong ! the least excitement
may be prejudicial to "

"No, it won't  it won't! let me go. Excitement
won't hurt me or anyone else ; let me
go.

I will let you go, certainly, but I think
you are rash."

The way in which you say that cancels
the permission you gave a moment before.
No ! I will not go as if I were going to gaze
on a pernicious and forbidden spectacle. I
will go to applaud and rejoice with my
mother if she succeeds, and to comfort
and soothe her if she fails. I don't much care
which she does  if the doing either will not
-hurt her. Walter, may I go ? "

Yes."

"Freely and clearly, without your harbouring

a thought in your mind to the effect that
I had better have stayed at home ? "

Freely and clearly."

And whatever comes you will promise
that you will never use those awful phrases,
'I told you so,' or 6 I feared as much,' to me?"

Never. I distinctly promise this ; but
Ethel, my darling, prepare yourself for hearing
them used by other people ; your mother
has gone out of her way with a feeler to
challenge social criticism  and it will be
given harshly, I fear."

"If she comes off the boards baffled and
beaten I will be there to welcome her as if
she was a History or a Rachel ; no one can
humiliate or contemn mother really. She
is trying to use her talent instead of hiding
it away in a napkin. Walter, like you, I
may wish that she had put it out to interest
in some other way, but I won't say the way
that she has been drawn into selecting is
worse than some safer ones."

I thing you had better pack up if you
mean to catch the train that will land you

VOL. III. o

in London in decent time to-night," Walter
interrupts, good-humouredly ; and then he
adds, " and I shall go with you, my plucky
love. Whether your mother is victrix or
vanquished tomorrow night, she shall find
her son as well as her daughter waiting to
welcome her."

Mr. Gifford can't help feeling rather magnanimous
as he says this. His mind's eye
already sees a picture of Mrs. Templeton
abased and discomfited ; and though he is
sorry for what he believes to be the inevitable
bitter end, he has made up his mind to see
her through it gallantly, and to throw the
mantle of his son-in-lawship and general
respectability around her without hesitation.

And in resolving to do this he is really resolving
to do a doughty deed, for he knows well that
more than half of his lady-patients in the
country will flout at the idea of the lady who
was the foremost of them all " having gone
on the stage." They will flout at her, and
will signify that they pityingly sympathise
with him for being connected with her. And



at the same time if she succeeds, they will
boast next season in town of having " known
her intimately in Atherton Towers," and will
diplomatise to get her to their houses.

Meantime, she is soaring on untried wines
through a rarified atmosphere of expectation.


Her youthful aspect and unforced vivacity
amazes herself, even, when she turns from
the hands of her dresser to give a last look at
herself in the glass. " I might be twenty ! I
am Constance ! " she says, admiringly, for she
has in appearance surpassed all her most
sanguine expectations of herself. Every line
of her supple figure is as true as it was on
the day  long ago  when she married Mr.
Heatherley, and was pronounced to be the
slimmest, gracefulness young lady that ever
stepped up to altar rails ? " Her feet and
hands are as small and nervous as ever. Her
hair is of as bright a golden tint as is ever
seen without the aid of " auri comus." Her
eyes are like sapphires  sparkling, effective !
Her complexion is  whatever she wills it to be !

and that is saying a great deal for a skin that
has borne the wind and weather of forty-five
summers and winters. Lastly, her taste in
dress is unassailable.

There is a great hush in the house when
she comes upon the stage with that air of
being where she is for her own pleasure that
makes the stalls begin to think about the
actress's " motive," and causes the gallery to
halt before it hoots. Then in the midst of
the hush her voice falls on the ear of the
assembled crowd, and with a sob of relief
one of the crowd falls back in her seat
whispering to her neighbour :

Walter ! her voice has won the fame
already ! See ! how they're leaning and
listening ! "

It is a fact ! Mrs. Templeton's sweet,
silvery voice, has, under training, become a
bell which rings sympathetically, not only
into every well-trained ear, but into every restrained,
but, maybe, good heart in the house.

The applause is unanimous, overwhelming,
conclusive ! Mrs. Templeton has made such

a " first appearance " in Manchester as will
make every London manager, worthy of
the name, seek to secure her at any
price.

And, after ail, what has she done ? Some
of the critics find flaws in her manner, her
intonation, her " poses," and her conception
of the part. Others find her " wanting in
repose," " in animation," " in lightness," " in
solidity," " in composure," and in that
nervousness which proclaims self-confidence."
But the public  for whom manager's
cater, and critics carp  find her wanting
in nothing ; avow her to be absolute
perfection.

So it comes about that Mrs. Templeton
leaves the Manchester theatre this night a
recognised Queen of Comedy.

As she leaves it to step into her carriage,
Mr. and Mrs. Walter GhTord arrest her progress,
Ethel half swooning  apparently from
delight.

Mother ! I am so proud of you' she
gasps. " Oh, mother ! I would have liked

every one in the theatre to-night to know
that I am your child."

Take her home, take her home ! Walter,
how could you let her come here? My Ethel,
keep up a bit ; I'm with you  your mother,
you know," the new theatrical star cries,
utterly regardless now of a dramatic effect.

And so, between Walter and Mrs. Templeton,
Ethel is taken to an hotel, and lodged
there as comfortably as nature will permit
for the night, considering that during it a
little daughter is born to Walter and Ethel
Gifford.

That this little child should be weak and
ailing is no unnatural result of the overstrained
state in which Ethel has been living of late ;
but it is a ghastly blow to Walter Gifford
that it should be so. He has unconsciously
taken pride in his own robust health, and
in Ethel's perfect physique  and now, their
offspring is " weak and ailing."

A dark demon down at the bottom of his
heart whispers : " This is the doing of Ethel's
mother ; this is the doing of the woman who,

on the night her daughter went through
woman's most awful agony, played the part
of a girlish coquette before a house full of
strangers."

The demon has a horribly shrill voice.
He is a little devil with a long name, and it
is to be feared we all know him well. His
rio'ht designation is " Desire-to-cast-blame-
off-myself-and-lay-it-on-other-people." Walter
lusts him from out his heart and off his
shoulder with difficulty. He is a little devil
who sticks. 

If I could only have persuaded Ethel to
remain at home quietly, or if Mrs. Templeton
could have been induced to defer her
triumph for a few nights, my poor wife
might have been spared much agony," he
finds himself thinking ; and he adds, rather
bitterly : " Of course, the woman's insatiable
vanity will be pampered now, and will grow
on what it feeds. She has made a hit, there's
no doubt about that ; and in the flush of
her triumph she'll go off, and stoop to any
depths to conquer, as Miss Hardcastle, while

her own daughter lies here suffering and in
danger. My poor Ethel shan't be left here
alone, though ; I'll send for Mabel ; she's
always to be relied upon ; vanity and frivolity
will never tempt her from her duty."

Meanwhile, Mrs. Templeton is being overwhelmed
with the most tangible and satisfactory
compliments that can be paid to success
with offers, namely, of splendid paying
engagements from the managers of several of
the first London theatres. Oddly enough,
she seems in no hurry to accept them ; and
she is accused by those who desire to secure
her, and to know definitely what she will do,
of giving herself airs, and of being capricious,
as it is the wont of popular favourites
to be.

Mabel comes, and Ethel continues very ill
for many weeks ; but it is not Mabel who
watches day and night with unremitting
devotion by the sick-bed. It is not Mabel
who soothes the fractious baby, and nurses
it with double-distilled motherly care and
love. It is the new theatrical star who does

this ; it is the frivolous, vain, careless, and
indifferent Mrs. Templeton, to whom, under
God's providence, Walter Gifford owes his
wife's restoration to health.

xlnd when she is restored to health, and
ready to go back to her own beautiful home
in Atherton Towers, it is the woman whose
insatiable vanity Mr. GifFord has been thinking
must be thirsting for fresh triumphs, who
says to Ethel,

There is something; incongruous in the
idea of a grandmother being; on the stage.
Moreover, I can't make up my mind to part
with baby ; so, if you and Walter will have
me, my dear, my professional career shall end
from to-day, and Til go back and show
Atherton Towers that my artistic education
has at least taught me how to grow old
gracefully."

