CHAPTER I.

PAGE

 THE GRAND CIRCUS, 1

CHAPTER II.

-A FRIEND IN NEED, 17

i

;?V. Chapters.

FRIENDS AND FOES, 30

2 CHAPTER I Y.

J A BIG BULLY, 42



 CHAPTER v.

l'tERMAN, 54

v CHAPTER VL

 MY HERO, 72



CHAPTER VII.

Lisette S PROTECTOR

PAGE



CHAPTER Viii.

DREAMS, 96

CHAPTER IX.

REALITY, 118

CHAPTER X.

COMPATRIOTS, 132

CHAPTER XI.

A SHATTERED CASTLE, 160

CHAPTER XII.

THE SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT, . . . .180

CHAPTER XIII.

THE GRAND HIPPODROME, 206

CHAPTER XIV.

WHAT HAPPENED NEXT, * . . . . 238

CHAPTER I.

CHARLES Penman's
GRAND CIRCUS. THIS DAY.

LARGEST SHOW IN THE WORLD.
Patronised by all the Crowned Heads of Europe.

GRAND CIRCUS!

THE WORLD-RENOWNED COMPANY

Under the Direction of

MR CHARLES Penman,

On the White Hart Tavern Green, will give their first
performance in

Crimson, at 8 precisely,

September '\st.

GRAND CIRCUS!

Such was the announcement in huge, highly-coloured
letters of blue, red and green, on a
ground of flaming yellow, which, for the last
VOL. I. A

three days, had dazzled the eyes, and raised on
tiptoe the expectations of the inhabitants of a
busy manufacturing town in the north of England.
And true to their parti-coloured promises,
made with so much eclat on every wall and fence
in the town, the gorgeous show promised had
streamed into the town with all banners flying 
a somewhat discordant brass band playing  and
the usual cavalcade of gilded cars, ornamented
with ga} pictures, on one of them a tall, fine-looking
woman, dressed as Britannia, or rather,
as one of the spectators persisted, " must give the
lady her title, you know  Rule Britannia," the
usual troop of long-tailed, piebald ponies, some
led, the rest ridden by knights and ladies in
gorgeously bespangled dresses  most of them
rather the worse for wear  behind these a clown
seated  the reverse way  upon a lean-looking
donkey, who, like his master, was completely
enveloped in trappings of yellow, red, green, and
blue, looking for all the world as if their* suits
were made of the odd and useless bills of the
show; and behind the jester of the court, in solemn
dignity, the mighty Petman himself drove, his
portly person clad in the everlasting sealskin
waistcoat, with ponderous watch-chain and seals,
in a tiny trap, drawn by two matchless cream
ponies.

Oh, such a splendid sight it was ! How eagerly
had all the little boys and girls looked for-word
to the first performance, which was to be
given at eight o'clock precisely, in the gigantic

tent, erected in a large piece of waste land at the
least-populated end of the town, and how great
had been the excitement evinced as the longed-for
hour arrived.

Now it is all over. For three nights only had
the inhabitants of busy Grimston been allowed
to gape in wonder at the wonderful jockey-rider,
George Epsom ; at the marvellous feats of Signer
Patchoulis, the great somersaultist; MadamePetite,
in her graceful and marvellous act, " The Poetry
of Motion ; " the wonderful Breakneck Brothers,
in their inimitable performance upon the horizontal
bar; the well-known Madame Fourteenstone on her
bare backed steed ; the renowned Japanese children,
in their marvellous juggling act ; the side-splitting
clowns, Merry-ground and Little Jerry;
on lions, tigers, elephants, etc., on show, etc., etc. ;
and almost before the last wondrous gaper has
been induced to leave the hippodrome tent, with
less ceremony, and certainly persuasion of a more
forcible sort than the means used to induce him
to enter the gay abode of wit and wonder, the
work of demolition has commenced. In a few
hours the gorgeous show will have completely disappeared
; the emblazoned tent, with its gaudily-dressed
men and women, wonderful animals and
mighty, will be a thing of the past ; the only evidence
of its existence being a well-worn circle on
the green, deeply rutted with wheel marks, trodden
by the hoofs of the wonderful animals, and
littered with signs of past revelry in the shape of
broken gingerbread bottles, innumerable scraps of

paper, bearing the name of the nearest pastry-cook,
and the usual complement of orange-peel.

Already the inside of the tent is undergoing a
complete revolution; the red-covered seats are
being piled up with all speed into the large,
rough waggons which are to transport them
to Addington, the next town which the great
show is to honour ; already the long-tailed ponies
are stripped of their gay trappings, and loosely
haltered together in trios and quartettes, ready
for the start in the morning, while the knights
and ladies, in nineteenth century costumes of
rather questionable cat, are condescending to very
ordinary actions, and certainly not very chivalric
language, as they assist in the general work, or
look vigilantly after their special belongings.
George Epsom is violently rowing one of the
grooms, who has the care of his racer, because,
through negligence on his own part, that priceless
animal had been carelessly saddled  a fact
which accounted for its rider failing to go through
his performance with his accustomed success
Signer Patchouli, a fiery little Italian  for once
answering to the nationality his name implied 
was displaying his knowledge of our English (bad)
language by swearing roundly at his " servant "
for impeding the removal of his thoroughbreds,
their master being in a great hurry to keep an
appointment, made by means of a few telegraphic
signs in the intervals of " double hand over
banders " with a pretty girl in a velvet hat in
the front row of the threepenny seats. Usually

The Signor," as he was called, did not deign to
thus honour any but the sixpenny front seats 
I beg their pardon, the stalls  but la petite charmante
had answered his glances so encouragingly
that he had been led to appoint a meeting at the
nearest oyster shop, where two-shillings-a-dozen
natives and stout would be the order of the day.
In a further corner, Madame Petite, a faded,
wrinkled old woman  now she was sans makeup
 was having a few, but decided, words with
Sam Merry-ground, because his tricks had
interfered with her time allowed. Madame
Fourteenstone was personally superintending
the removal of her wardrobe, contained in the
narrow space of a hat box; the Breakneck
Brothers were going through a little performance
not quite so inimitable as that in which
they had lately engaged so successfully  namely,
trying in a vague, undecided sort of manner to
get out of the stage-door  a slit in the tent  a
feat which they had some difficulty in accomplishing,
for, as Jack remarked, after five unsuccessful
trials, in which he severely damaged his noble
features  "horizontal might be in his line, but
blessed if he could make a go at the ' perpendicular.'
" " Right you are, mate," said his relative,
sawing about in the air to try and reach
something to hold on by ; " it's a clear case of
two to one, bar one,' with us, I'm blowed if it
ain't ; " while two very English mothers  at least,
in their way of showing affection  were dragging
away their sleepy offspring, in the shape of the

Japanese children. Several others of the company
were lounging near ; some had gone to their
lodgings ; two or three ladies and gentlemen, of
better class than their fellow performers, were
directing, as required by agreement, the removal
of their stage properties ; one or two girls, poorly
dressed, waited patiently while the grooms dallied
unnecessarily with their few professional belongings
; some gentlemen-riders stood about in knots,
talking of the late season and likely success of
the next move ; men rushed hither and thither,
dragging, pushing, or carrying all sorts of odd-shaped
bundles ; and the sounds of calling and
shouting of orders, knocking, etc., and all the
noise usually attendant on the removal of so great
a show, nearly deafened one.

A little apart, however, from this centre of the
confusion and bustle were two persons, one a tall
fine-looking girl, evidently of better means than
her companions, for her dress  a well-cut ulster
of dark green cloth, a large felt hat turned up
with a neat black wing and steel buckle, good
black gauntlet-gloves, and neat linen collar of
scrupulous whiteness  spoke of comfortable if not
extravagant means, and suited well her fine figure
and not unhandsome face, as she sat in the full
glare of the lights from a long row of flaring gas-jets
which was raised above the well-worn red
velvet chair, the seat of honour for the leader of
the orchestra, on the arm of which she was seated.

By her side, leaning in a careless but not ungraceful
position against one of the slight wooden

pillars which supported the tent, was a young man
of about two-ancl-twenty, dressed in a long, brown
overcoat, open in the front, and showing him to
be of a tall but slight build. He wore a crimson
silk scarf twisted loosely round his neck, a gold
ring on the little finger of his left hand, in which
he held a pair of brown gloves, and a soft felt
hat shading a pale, and certainly not an English
face.

Presently a timid voice breaks in upon the tete-astute,
above the noise of hammering, the hum of
many talkers, and the clatter of many hurrying
feet, as it asks, 

Could you to tell me, please, where I may find
Mr Petman ? "

The young fellow breaks ofi" in the middle of
the answer he is making to some question put to
him by his companion, turns in the direction of
the voice, while at the same time the workmen
nearest cease their clatter for a moment to turn
also, and see what daring stranger has intruded
in upon their sacred precincts, who it is who demands
to enter the great manager's presence, and
that after the conclusion of so weighty a piece of
business as the evening performance. And what
they see in the speaker is only a girl, of middle
height and slight make, simply and poorly dressed
in black, with a white face lit up by two 'big
brown eyes, which she raises so timidly to meet
the young fellow's look of cool surprise.

For an instant she bears the almost insolent
glance, and then suddenly her head droops, and a

deep flush floods her pale cheeks a brief moment,
for she suddenly finds herself the object of inspection
from more than one pair of inquisitive
eyes  the young lady in the ulster, impatient at
the interruption to her tete-a-tete not the least
backward in her review ; and even in that brief
pause more than one not too-softly uttered comment
falls upon the stranger's ears, so that, in spite
of her effort to appear unconcerned, the colour in
her face deepens perceptibly.

Who the devil  beg pardon, Madame Petite 
"I know you object to bad language  doesn't
she. Smith? but Who in the name of all that's
holy is asking for the guv'nor at this time
night ? Business hours, my lady, are from twelve
till one, and you may think yourself lucky then
you find the old man sober ! "

Who is this beetle girl % " asked Signer Patchouli
who had seen his belongings at length safely
bestowed in the van, and was drawing on his dirty
lavender kids preparatory to starting for his appointed
rendezvous. "Surely, it is not mia signorina
tired of waiting and come to seek for me !
Tu verity, it is indiscreet."

Mesdames Fourteenstone and Petite favoured
the new comer with a cool stare, and then for
once met on friendly terms in a few of those
wondrous telegraphic signs in which women
convey so much meaning to one another, while
Jack Breakneck sidled up to his mortal enemy,
George Epsom, and throwing his arm affectionately
round that renowned equestrian's bull neck,

struck an attitude expressive of great tragic
import, and whispered with an air of profound
secrecy to the assembled company :

My friends, it's a case of ' Father, dear father,
come home.' Now then, George, don't look so
furious. We all know the old proverb  ' Put
a beggar on horseback and he'll ride to the
devil'"

*'   you. There's no occasion to saddle even
an ass to pay that visit. Your address is always
within walking distance."

A loud laugh greeted this coarse retort, which
was hushed by a sharp, 

Now then, you fellows, drop that and get on
with the work, unless you want to save the expense
of a night's lodgings. Not a man Jack of
you leaves this place till it's all packed ready for
the morning. So you best look sharp ! "

It was the young fellow to whom the stranger
had addressed herself who spoke, and as the men
seemed to know of old that his orders, though
given generally in a more polite manner than Mr
penman's, had to be obeyed, turned once more to
their tasks, and he to the little figure at his side,
with an impatient motion of his head, as if her
question had been but half heard.

The girl timidly repeated it, this time in a
lower voice, 

Can you to tell me where I am likely to find
the manager % "

The words were accompanied by a slight raise
of the shoulders, and wei-e spoken with an emphasis

and accent which at once proclaimed the
speaker to be a foreigner.

This fact might have inclined the listener to
have been somewhat more gracious in his manner
than he was, for he himself was a foreigner, had
he known it of the same nationality as his questioner
; had once been a stranger in a foreign
land, without a home or friend, and it was purely
by his own exertions that he had risen to what he
was ; but he was engaged with the lady at his
side, and had no time to spare for any little attention
to any one else, so he only said, with a
second cool stare, 

Mr Pet man has left for to-night, and "  with
a gesture of the hand as if in token of dismissal 
business hours are from twelve till one in the
morning."

Yes, I know," said the girl, blushing again at
the reproof, " but I could not get here before."

(" Did she think," whispered Jack Breakneck to
his brother, as a loud aside, " that the old gentleman
was going to wait her coming % ")

'' And," went on the stranger, " I thought perhaps
he might  I mean do you to think he would 
of course I know it is not to be the proper time, but
" and the girl, after stammering in a very confused
fashion, ended by blushing nervously, and
leaving her sentence unfinished.

A smile of great amusement, which she did not
attempt to hide, crossed the face of the girl in the
ulster, and she looked up at her companion with a
flash of mischief in her bright, black eyes; the

brown ones returned the look with great disingenuousness,
and the young German asked, with
a careless shrug of his shoulders, " Well? "

The tone, almost insolent in its inquiry, and the
glance which accompanied it, seemed to restore
the person to whom it was addressed to her self-possession.
Her eyes flashed suddenly with a
greater fire even than those of the girl in the
ulster herself; she drew herself up with a quiet
air of dignity, and with a look of resolution as if
determined to know what she wanted to know,
and be nervous no longer, she said quickly, 

"I beg your pardon for to put you to the trouble,
but I have want to see Mr Petman on a little
business. I meant to have come sooner, but have
been delayed. Do you think he will to see me,
and if so, will you be so good as to tell me where
I can find him ? "

I am afraid," began the young man, on whom
the sudden alteration of his questioner's manner
was not without effect, for he gave up his lounging
position and spoke less carelessly : " I am
afraid Mr Petman will not be able to see you this
evening, for  "

*' I am sure he will not," broke in the young
lady, with an air of decision. " It is is far too
late. Why " (consulting her watch), " it is nearly
eleven o'clock. I expect he has had his supper
and gone to bed at least half-an-hour ago."

At these words the strange girl's face fell once
more.

Then, of course, I'm behind the time. Oh, I

am sorry. My business is very important  at
least to me it is. But tomorrow, if I come hereat
half-past twelve  "

You will to a certainty find us all vanished."

The girl looked mystified.

I mean that this is our last night in Grimston.
We start at six tomorrow for Shirley."

'' Then if I come at half-past five? "

You may find Mr Petman here, and you may
not. I cannot answer for his movements."

*' Could you to take a message to him for me % "
asked the girl. " I would like to see him if I could
do it ; but perhaps a message would do it as well."

*' I'm afraid," interrupted the girl in the ulster,
rising suddenly from her seat and turning away,
it is of no use. Mr Petman only receives personal
applications. You had better come tomorrow
morning if you want to see him, and take
your chance whether you do or not."

The girl flushed uncomfortably under the indifferent
tone  seemed for a moment as if she
would say something in answer to this rather
haughty speech, then paused, and half turned to
the young German with a look of inquiry, as if
asking his advice in the matter, but his attention
was just then attracted by the clumsy way in
which one of the workmen was dragging along
some packages; he bade him be careful what he
was about, and then, seeing his late questioner
had not moved from where she stood, he asked,
as he turned to follow his companion, 

Is that all you wished to know ? "

The girl started from the reverie into which she
had apparently fallen, and answered with a nervous
bend of her head, " Yes, I thank you, that is all."

Then as the young man, without another word,
hastily went to rejoin his companion, who was
evidently waiting for him to renew the interrupted
tete-a-tete eventually to escort her to her
father's lodgings, the girl yet made no movement
to go, but stood, a little black-robed, passive
figure, in the midst of the busy preparations for
departure going on around her.

It was a lively scene this, and a gay one, too,
for there was plenty of fun and laughter mixed
with the workers. The tour so far had been a
very successful one  the three performances in
Grimston among the best, both from a financial
and appreciative point of view  the last one
exceptionally so. Mr Petman had every reason
to be satisfied with his receipts, as he called
them ; and the performers had in turn been so
enthusiastically received and applauded that each
and all for a wonder had very little to complain
of; everyone was in a good temper, and loud
roars of laughter mingled with the sounds of
bustle and noise.

Only this strange girl stood alone, looking
somehow rather out of place in that noisy crowd.

It is true she was poorly, even shabbily dressed
her clothes, travel-stained and worn, as though
she had made a long journey on foot. Her boots
were covered with dust, and were well-worn, but
there was an air of quiet gentility about her in

spite of the plain dress, jacket, and poor bonnet,
which bespoke the wearer a lady in spite of her
poverty.

Yes, poor she certainly was  poor ; and, to judge
by her manner, perhaps totally friendless in that
busy city.

She had no doubt come a long distance to see
this mighty magnate, Charles Petman, who at
that very moment was enjoying a comfortable
forty winks in his lodgings while waiting for his
daughter's appearance to join him in the nice
little oyster supper which, in honour of her
arrival, he had ordered to be sent in from the
cook-shop next door, a nap which it would have
done him no earthly harm to have dispensed with
while he ascertained the business of the young
lady who had so earnestly desired to see him.

But of course the young lady did not know this,
and she looked weary and sad as she remained
where the young German had left her.

Yes, she evidently was very hopeless and very
disappointed at the ill-success of her mission,
and her attitude, as she stood under the glare of
the gas-light, was expressive of both, the flaming
jets showing a slight, girlish figure in the poor,
scanty black dress and neat black jacket, a band
of rein round the left arm telling of some late
loss, and the small, almost childish, face turned
slightly away from the glare  a face with small
regular features  as pale as marble now that the
angry flush of a few moments before had died
away  a sensitively-lined mouth, a low, clear

forehead, upon which a few loose curls of soft
brown hair stole from the company of ministers
tucked up under the brim of the round silk
hat, a face which, had once been very pretty ina
simple sort of way before poverty and care had
stolen the colour from the thin cheeks and shaded
those dark circles beneath those brown eyes, in
which a look of patient suffering had shut out all
the fire and fun, eyes of soft deep hazel, pretty
gentle eyes, so gentle and trusting in expression,
so sweetly confiding when the long dark lashes
were raised with that shy, nervous movement,
and the owner was startled from her self-possession
for a moment.

Yes, a pretty face it had been once, and was so
still, only so pale and thin, and oh ! so strangely
pitiful to look upon, with that look of patient
weariness imprinted on it, as if this girl was
used to battling with the world, to meeting With
rebuffs and rough words, when kind ones would
have cost so little, and been worth so much.

For several moments after the young German
had left her the girl stood thus, then suddenly
once more roused herself from the dream into
which she had fallen, for some of the workmen
were calling loudly to her to get out of their way
as they moved some of the lumber near them.

By your leave, miss ! by your leave. Out of
the way there ! "

The girl started, and endeavoured to do as
desired, but, confused by the noise and the glare,
only succeeding in running into further trouble.

To escape from a huge truck piled with seats
she nearly overturned a pile of band instruments,
and to avoid these ran into two lads carrying the
stand of whips, tambourine, tubs, hoops, and
chairs used in the performance of the wonderful
French poodles introduced by Madame Terrible,
and nearly upset both burden and bearers.

At this she turned, and, crossing the tent,
quickly disappeared through the opening which
served as a door. But on the threshold she
paused ; the bright light within dazzled her and
made the darkness without all the more intense.

A FRIEND IN NEED.

It was a dreary wet night. The sky, what was-visible
of it over the many house-tops and chimneys
of the town, was a mass of threatening
clouds. Not a star or moonbeam penetrate the
thick canopy to relieve the gk)om and utter
cheerlessness. Added to this it was raining, not
heavily, but with a steady persistent downpour
which gave little promise of its clearing up for
that night. It was cold, too. A keen easterly
wind was blowing, and as it searched about in
nooks and corners, it whistled and snarled like
an angry watch-dog. But in spite of the roughness
of the weather, the circus had been the cause
of so much excitement in the town, that even
after the large gathering which had formed the
audience for the last night had dispersed, a small
crowd of idlers yet lingered around the precincts
of the wondrous show, as though loath to leave
its mysteries so soon, for when the morning came
they would look for them in vain.

VOL. I. B

Thus it happened that in among the cars and
various vehicles employed in the transportation
of the " show " from place to place, more than
one group of idlers was to be seen ; while now
and then dark figures passed to and fro like
fleeting shadows as some busy worker sped on
some errand. These first the lateness of the
hour rendered by no means the most orderly
or respectable, and the sounds of their noisy
revelry mingled with the noise of the workmen
busy around them. The stranger girl on the
threshold of the tent looked hesitatingly round
her, for her way to the road beyond lay right
past one or two of these knots of idlers. After
a moment, drawing her cloak closer round her,
for she had no other protection against the rain,
she set out on her passage.

She found this even more difficult than she
imagined, for the ground, deeply indented by
the cart-wheels and the prints of many feet,
was literally one big pool of water, and so
slippery that she was more than once in danger
of losing her footing. As it was, she had to
plod along at a very slow pace, which threatened
to make her journey of some duration,
while already the rain was pouring off the black
hat in a way which must have anything but
added to the comfort of the wearer, but still she
trudged on. These, however, were not the only
difficulties with which she had to contend ;
her presence alone in such a place at such an
hour did not escape remark from some of the

noisy idlers, and more than once, as she passed a
laughing, loud-voiced group, the remarks  some
not intended for her ears ; others coarse witticisms
addressed to her  caused her to hasten her steps
as well as she was able.

No one, however, went so far as to molest her
until she was some distance from the tent.

She was just, with some precipitation, making
good her escape from a trio of loafers who were
making the place ring with a very powerful
rendering of the latest comic song, when she saw
before her another group of the same company,
noisier and more boisterous in their conduct than
any she had yet encountered. They were about
a dozen in number this time, and, so far as the
girl could tell, had evidently paid more than one
visit to the " White Hart Tavern " opposite, for
they were behaving more like bears than men,
and indulging in such horseplay as made it
doubtful whether they would part such good
friends as they appeared to be.

They were, as they protested  rather more
loudly than the occasion seemed to require 
waiting for the shower to give over and the sun
to shine, and had sought a temporary shelter
in a low shed which was erected on one side
of the field. To gain the road beyond, unless
she retraced her steps and made a long detour
round the circus tent, she must pass right close
to them, as a wall made the path into a narrow
passage.

The prospect was anything but tempting, and

the solitary female traveller in those cheerless
regions came to an involuntary stop when she
saw what lay before her. It seemed to her that
she would never be able to make her way out of
the precincts of the circus, for to go alone, as she
was, down that narrow passage, among all those
men, seemed impossible.

No, she dared not attempt it, after the example-she
had already had of the sort of company which
was abroad ; she dared not run into the danger
which till now she had succeeded in escaping.
But then, what was the alternative?

The girl for two or three moments was uncertain
what to do. To go on was to her to face what
she, of all people, most dreaded  a crowd, and that
of half-intoxicated men, who might be tempted
by her loneliness to assail her ; but to go back !

She turned and glanced at the rough way which
in the darkness lay before her. It seemed so far
to the light on the other side, whereas, beyond
the shed, not many yards before her, the glare of
the " White Hart Tavern " told that the road she
wished to follow was not far distant.

One glance backward, and then the girl set off"
determinedly towards the shed.

The ground here was even in a worse condition
than elsewhere, but at length, after much difficulty,
she stood within a yard of the shed, then
paused once more, for a sudden roar of coarse
laughter rose into the night. Some joke or trick
of one of their companions was evidently amusing
the men mightily.

The girl judged that if she wished to pass unnoticed
she had better do so while their attention
was engaged, so, with as much speed as was
possible, she made for the passage, entered it,
keeping as near to the wall as possible, hoping to
be protected by its shadow.

The path was broken, but not heeding Iioav she
stepped, she almost bounded along, reached the
shed, passed it in safety, unperceived, and then,
just as she thought all danger past, suddenly lost
her footing on the slippery ground, and in her
fear uttered a cry of terror.

The men turned, and in an instant two of their
number darted forward.

By ! " said one, " here's a lady  a real

lady  out on a night like this ! "

'' Real lady," said the other ; " 'ain't no lady,
it's a drownded rat."

At this witty (?) sally the rest of the men
turned out, "sand before the girl, who had only
slipped on to her knees, and was more frightened
than hurt, could do anything but gain her feet
once more, she was accosted by half-a-dozen of
the loafers with an undisguised familiarity which,
added to the coarse language, tended greatly to
increase her trepidation.

Without, however, taking any notice of their
remarks, she turned to make good her retreat, but
this was prevented. One of the meu, scarcely
able to so much as stand straight, barred the
way.

What's yer hurry, miss I Can't yer stop a

bit? A party aunt complete without no ladies.
Do join us."

The girl endeavoured to push by him, but he
held out his arms and reeled towards her, gave a
sudden bound, and caught her savagely by the
wrist, swearing horribly, and drawing from her a
cry of fear and pain, for his grip was like iron and
hurt her.

There was no need for more than one cry, for
help was nearer than she dared to hope, and
before the call had left her lips, the hand which
held her was struck down, and her tormentor
pushed roughly on one side. He staggered back
against the wall, and for a moment, in the excitement,
she could not find out who had come to her
rescue.

Now then, you fellows," said a clear ringing
voice, " what are you up to \ "

What's that to do with you ? " asked the girl's
tormentor, making an attempt to square his
shoulders and show fight. " Can't a decent and
respectable man speak to a girl without being
interfered with ? "

*' Certainly he can," said the new comer, a
young man in a loose overcoat, the collar turned
up to his ears, and his hat on the back of his
head. " Certainly he can, but that isn't to sa}-
you may."

At this bold rejoinder the rest of the men, who
had gathered round with anything but peaceful
looks, ceased their threatening gestures, and gave
hearty roar at their comrade's expense.

He, however', did not take the retort so good-naturedly,
and began swearing roundly that " he'd

be if he wouldn't smash any man to bits who

told him he wasn't respectable."

"Come on and try," said the object of his
wrath, stepping forward, and coolly putting his
hands in his pockets, much to the delight of the
men, who saw some fun in store.

Nor were they disappointed. The drunken
man, after making a deal of show, drew himself
up and aimed a blow, it seemed, straight at his
antagonist, who stepped nimbly on one side, and
the blow meeting only the air, the aimer was sent
sprawling on his face in the mud and slime. This
course of action did not meet with approval on all
sides, but before the men could do anything but
begin to swear loudly, the young fellow turned to
where the girl, to whose aid he had come, stood,
half dazed by what had occurred, and taking her
firmly but not roughly by the arm, hurried her
down the path and out into the light. Then he
let go his hold, and, as the girl did not speak 
she was, in fact, trembling too much to say a
word  drew back a step to let the light fall upon
her, no doubt curious to see what sort of person
it was he had rescued.

The girl was in a pitiable plight indeed : the
short walk in the rain had literally drenched her
from head to foot; her clothes were hanging in
soaking folds, and her slip by the shed had further
disfigured her dress by a large patch of green mud.

A truly deplorable figure, and certainly not one

to inspire respect ; but, perhaps, it was that this
TOUgh-looking fellow was possessed of a kinder
heart than his not very prepossessing exterior
betokened ; perhaps he saw that, despite the
shabby dress and cloak, there was an air of quiet
gentility in the way they were worn, which told
that poverty was the only cause of their poorness ;
perhaps he was one of those who do not judge
always by outward appearance, who can tell a
lady from one undeserving of the title, but when
he spoke at length it was respectfully, as though
to a superior.

"I must beg your pardon, miss, for hurrying
you along so, but I was afraid lest those men
should get any hotter. Can see they're not the
best company out to-night. I hope they haven't
hurt you'"

Thank you, no, I have no hurt ; but I was so
frightened, and if you had not have come just
then, I do not know what should have happened
for me," and the girl raised a very, very whiteface,
in which a look of fear was gradually giving
place to one of utter weariness. The young man,
touched to the bottom of his honest heart by her
lonely friendlessness, said kindly, 

I'm very glad I happened to be going by, miss ;
it's a nasty night for any one to be crossing the
field  a real nasty night."

They were only a few words of kindness, rough
enough in themselves, but uttered in well-meant
sympathy, such as to the tired, unnerved listener
were of far more worth because of the rudeness

and rebuffs she had so lately met with, and though
she turned her head away quickly, it was not before
the glare of the gaslight showed the unbidden
tears which had risen to the big brown eyes, while
ii queer little gasp for breath told the rest.

At the sound of that half-smothered sob, with
its tale of weariness and lost hope, the young man
involuntarily went a step nearer, a surprised inquiry
on his lips but not uttered, for somehow
something seemed to forbid him to even unwittingly
insult this girl by so much as an offer of pity.

He coughed rather loudly, and stared for a
moment in silence at one of the placards of the circus
posted up against the tavern, and by this time
the girl had struggled to regain her composure.

'' Thank you," she said, in a voice which would
sound shaky in spite of her efforts to steady it.
Thank you for being kind as you did. It was
very good of you."

Please don't mention it, miss. I was only too
glad to be of use. There are too many of those
sort of men about to-night, and this rain's not
likely to give over yet." He hesitated, then
added very diffidently, he was so afraid of being
too bold, " Have you far to go, miss ? Excuse
my asking, but  " Again he paused awkwardly*
not knowing how to express his reason, so began
buttoning up his coat rather nervously instead.

The girl, however, did not seem to note the
lameness of his remark, and asked hastily if he
could tell her the way to Dalton Lane.

I'm very sorry, miss, but I'm a stranger here 

leastways, only came a few days since, but I will
find ont for you," and lie turned to do so, but the
girl said wearily 

Oh, do not so trouble to do that. I will be
able to find it in time. I know part of the
journey to Lawson Road. I can inquire the
rest."

Not a very cheerful prospect on such a nighty
but the girl seemed to be too hopeless to fight
against fate.

To Lawson Road % " said her questioner.
Why, that's nearly a mile from here ; you're
going beyond that ! " And his surprise found
vent in a whistle, of which the next instant he
was heartily ashamed, apologising most humbly
It's a trick of mine, miss," he said, " and I forget
myself sometimes in private."

The force of this remark was not quite clear,
but the girl once more drew her cloak round her,
thanked him for coming to her assistance, and
turned away.

He went a step after her and asked, rather surprised
at his own boldness, " You're not going all
that way alone, are you, miss? Lawson Road
is a nasty place, and the company won't be any of
,the best at this time of night."

I know, but I must to go, and alone, for I have
no friends here," was the admission.

No friends % " This young man knew well
what it was to be alone and friendless in a big
city, and almost involuntarily he blurted out, 

It isn't fit for any lady to go through the town

alone at this time ; it isn't fit. I wish you'd let
me help you, miss  don't think I'm meaning to
insult you, or thinking of any harm  I wouldn't
for the world, but I wish you'd let me help you."

At his first words the girl had shrunk back a
little, but bold as his offer might have seemed, she
was a stranger in a strange land, and there was
no mistaking the earnestness the honesty of the
proffered assistance. She raised her head, and
this time the tears slowly welled out of their
cradles and rolled down the pale cheeks as she
replied quietly, " Thank you ; you are very kind,
but I could not let you come. I must to go alone.
I am used to it, and all the men cannot be as bad
as those just now," but she shivered nervously as
she spoke, and the tears fell faster.

*' There's no knowing," said the young man
eagerly. " I know it isn't to be expected a young
lady like you 'd like to walk along with me, a
perfect stranger, but you'd needn't do that. Let
me see you safe there where you want to go, and
I'll keep as far behind you as you like ; but nobody
as is in trouble seems to be a stranger to me, and
you're one of us, you say," excusing himself for
his rather free offer.

He spoke so earnestly that it seemed hard to
doubt his sincerity, but the girl shook her head,
No, no," she said, half fearfully. " Please let me
go alone." Then, as if ashamed of her ingratitude,
she held out her hand impulsively  a small
white hand only half covered by a coarse woollen
mitten  and said, in her pretty broken English

tones, " Good-bye ; thank you so very much. You
are so good for me."

The next moment she had disappeared, leaving
only the touch of her cold, damp lingers upon her
would-be friend's rough palm.

He stood for a little peering through the darkness
in which she had disappeared, with the light
of the lamp above his head gleaming down and
making it no difficult task for a pair of brown eyes
wet with tears to take a backward look that if
ever this new friend and their owner met again he
might be recognised.

What the gaslight showed was not a very gilded
picture of the rescuer of a hapless maiden. The
hero was certainly anything but a fine specimen
of his class. So far as outward appearances went
he was the very reverse  in fact, if not actually
unprepossessing, not in the least attractive-looking.
He was of about two-and-twenty years of
age, with a ruddy, clean-shaven face, not by any
means handsome, with its rough, irregular features,
small grey-green eyes, set far back in his
head, large mouth, and short straight-cropped hair,
of a sandy colour, which gave a comical look of
surprise to his face by perversely sticking up on
his low forehead like a tuft, in spite of the evident
application of a large quantity of pomade.

And yet not an unpleasant face after all, in spite
of its defects, for there was a look of good temper
and honest frankness about the grey-green eyes ;
and a good-natured merry smile round the large
mouth made one forget its plainness.

And, too, in spite of the rather common cut
about him, a certain air of jauntiness in the tilt of
the round brown hat, the bow of his tie, and the
general set of his light pepper-and-salt suit and
thick rough overcoat, a bearing which was certainly
not affected  the wearer was evidently less
of a cockney than he appeared  but all the same
certainly very common-place looking, and, as I
said, by no means anything like a hero. But
what did outward appearances matter  those two
brown eyes knew full well that a kinder heart
beat under the queerly-fitting jacket than she had
found beneath a more aristocratically cut one ;
and somehow, although it rained even harder than
ever, and the well-worn cloak was clinging closer
with its damp folds, the world did not seem quite
as cheerless as before, just because some one had
taken the trouble to speak a few kind words to a
poor, friendless girl, a stranger in the country, and
to care whether she was safe amidst the dangers
of a big city.

It was not much to do, perhaps, but that little
German girl, as she hurried on her way, looked
back more than once and wondered if she and her
would-be friend would ever meet again.

FRIENDS And FOES.

They did meet again, and that far sooner than
either of them could have guessed.

Once more it is evening, and we are in the huge
ring-tent where we first made the acquaintance of
Mr Petman's world-famed circus, but this time the
busy preparations which are going on are for the
first of the performances in this  the large market
town where the equestrian company have (literally)
pitched their tents.

Again everything is hurry and bustle, for
Thurley is one of the most important stopping-places
on the route. A large and more than
usually high-class audience is expected. The
coming of the circus is looked upon quite as a
national event. The lower orders are sure to
flock in in large numbers. The gentry are by no
means above its attractions, while more than once
a mayor of the town, with a great predilection for
equestrian exercise of any kind, condescended to
honour the show with his presence. After this
the entertainment was considered as quite genteel

and proper. Indeed, it was considered the thing
to have visited it, and its wonders were food for
conversation long after its tents had removed to
other regions.

And this is the first night.

The procession, more than usually gorgeous on
account of the importance of the occasion, had
streamed into the town at mid day, just when
the town folk were on the way to or from dinner,
had paraded its splendours along all the principal
streets, and with much show of secrecy settled
down under the canvas roofs prepared for their
reception, and around which during the whole
day the usual crowd of curious idlers was not
long in gathering.

Now, however, the night was come ; in about
an hour the performance would commence.

And now occurred a most unlooked-for catastrophe
; just as Mr Petman was in the act of giving
some final directions preparatory to retiring to his
lodgings, for dinner and the usual ' forty winks"
which preceded his exertions of the coming evening,
the news was brought to him that Madame
Petite, owing to a severe cold, which had the effect
of rendering her prostrate, was unable to appear
in the prospective performance.

This announcement did not meet with the sympathy
which one would have imagined it deserved,
and accompanying his inquiry with one of his most
choice expressions, the manager asked how long
the lady had been subject to the influenza.

A knowing wink and a motion of the hand of

one drinking was the answer, one which had the
effect of rousing Mr Petman's anger to such a
pitch that he grew positively crimson in the face,,
and vented his rage in such a choleric way that
any one who did not understand his 'away" of
venting his feelings when roused must have feared
a fit. He raged and fumed, stamped and swore
like one bewitched, in such a manner that the
whole of his company, who ordinarily stood in
awe of him, grew so terrified that they became
perfectly helpless, petrified under the torrent (;f
his wrath. They stood about in knots, incurring
his displeasure one moment by their laziness, the
next angrily bidden leave the work alone if they
could not do it in a more business-like way.

Until then matters had been rather calmer than
usual, owing to a more than ordinarily prosperous-tour,
so far so that the storm which now broke was
doubly fierce in its intensity.

For some time Mr Petman had no occasion to
exercise his powers of abusing, so at this the first
opportunity his concentrated force was doubly
powerful.

Poor Madame Petite I If the blessings which
he pronounced upon her head could in any way
have affected her, she would have had a most
exhilarating time of it, while the earnest way in
which he consigned her to a warmer climate than
our own was certainly worthy of a better cause.

** Severe cold ! He'd severe cold her if she got
up to her tricks again. This was the third time
during the tour that she had been rendered incapable



of appearing through indisposition. What
business had she or any other member of the company
to be indisposed, especially on such an occasion
as the present % What would the performance
be with only one fancy rider, and that infernally
fat Madame Forest? (Fourteenstone, as the
fellows called her, who was so bold in appearance
and nervous in her riding that she rarely got so
much as a call.) A nice specimen of a fancy rider
to present to the mayor and his honourable company
! Why the couldn't Madame Petite

have held out a little longer? She wasn't nearly
so much to look at as her rival, but she could ride
a little."

Here the worthy manager sent forth another
shower of expletives upon the unfortunate artiste's
head with such a gusto that even Will Breakneck
opened his eyes and expressed his devout surprise
in a subdued whistle. "By !" he said

to Jack, who was busy putting some new wire
to one of his trapezes, a task which he would
trust to no one but himself, "the guv'nor's-
fairly off now. We shall have a time of it to-nights
Why, he beats the missus even with some of his
blessings, and she was a hot 'un."

For fully twenty minutes the renowned Petman
continued to give vent to his feelings, and at the
end of that time became endued with a violent
desire to have vengeance on the offending Petite.

ril pay her out for this. If she thinks she
joined this company to have colds when she
chooses, she's mistaken. I'm not going to stand
VOL. I.

her nonsense an} longer. Rheumatics ! She's no
more subject to rheumatics than I am. It's laziness,
that's what it is. I'll teach her to show her
temper to me. She knows her worth,  that I can't
afford to turn her off while I have got no one to

hill her place ; but by , if only I get a chance,

I'll let her see what I'm made of."

Is there no one you can get? " asked the ring-master,
who had been quietly listening to this
tirade.

'* At this short notice ! Not likely. I don't know

a soul, it. I'll let the show go to the deuce.

It's not a bit of use trying to square things."

And, as a relief to his mind, the worthy manager
swore roundly at every one within hailing distance,
fired a double-barrelled oath at the absent Madame
Petite as a parting shot, and went off to his lodgings,
swearing and fuming still.

When, however, he returned at the hour for the
performance  just as the excited audience was
beginning to pour into the tent, he had somewhat
recovered his equanimity, and, rather to the surprise
of the grooms, gave orders that Madame
Petite's charger should be ready at the usual
time.

*' What's the guv'nor up to ? " said the official
appointed to perform this office.

Perhaps he sent the old woman a tonic to give
her strength to keep her place."

The guv'nor, however, vouchsafed no explanation
to any save the ring-master, whom he informed
that quite by chance he had found waiting

to see him at his lodgings a fancy rider, as he
called her, who was seeking an engagement. She
was well recommended by Monsieur Foret, of the
Cirque Royale, Marseilles, so to pay Madame
Petite out, he (the manager) had offered to give
her a chance for a very small consideration, owing
to there having been no trial, an omission which
was certainly not any fault of the young artiste.

*' It isn't my regular way, but it'll let madame
see that I'm not going to stand her airs and graces
-any longer."

But how about the Emperor ? Will she ride
him % "

Didn't make the slightest doubt of it in the
world. Says she's used to strange horses  never
had one of her own ; so if she likes to chance it,
it's her own risk. Besides, any one could ride the
Emperor if he's in the right mood. He's a bit
skittish at times, but the girl needn't know, and
it's her own look out if she can't stick on. Now,
then, you boys, hurry up ; there's no time to lose.
We must be up to time to-night. Herman, wake
up a bit, and see that those men look a bit presentable
this evening. No larks to-night, mind.

If anything goes wrong, me if some one

fiha'n't pay for it."

The worthy manager, his portly form clad in an
irreproachable dress suit, with a new pair of white
gloves greatly adding to the dignity of his appearance,
received his lordship the mayor (whom
many of the inhabitants of the town remembered
when barber's assistant not many years before),

and with much ceremony conducted his lordship
to the seat of honour prepared for him. The
house was crowded from floor to ceiHng, and the
treasury promised a goodly harvest.

The programme was a more than ordinarily
good one  the band augmented by as many
instrumentalists as were procurable  the artistes,,
as Mr Petman impressively designated them, in
right trim, and everything went, as the manager
mentally described it, swimmingly. Before half
the performance was over the mayor had complimented
him on the cleverness of his troupe, while
the artistes themselves recognised in him one of"
the right sort, through his very lively appreciation
of their several performances.

Each and all endeavoured to outshine the other
and the gracious way in which they acknowledged
the applause, as though emanating entirely from
the great man alone, was truly amusing. Rarely
before had the company's efforts been so successful.
Not so much as the slightest hitch marred
the performance, and Mr Petman was counting
upon a good notice in the Thurley Advertiser, wh.&n.
the name of Madame Petite rather upset his calculations.


This girl that he had employed in her place 
how would she get on? Supposing she was a
new hand, and made a " mull " of the job, it would
spoil the whole affair. She had asked for hoops,
banners, and balloons, and spoken of a skipping-rope,
which latter promised something new ; but
would she be able to carry out her performance

Z1

on an entirely strange horse, with by no means
the best reputation for good temper?

It was doubtful. Best do without the second
fancy rider after all than run the risk of an accident,
 put the girl off somehow, rather than spoil
the prospective notice.

The manager was about to carry out his plan, 
on the point of despatching some one to ascertain
whether the young performer had arrived, when
he received a message from the mayor, desiring
him to join the honourable party in partaking of
the light refreshment which had been provided.

This little attention was not to be despised, and
intending to see to the matter later on, Mr Petman
hastened to obey the royal mandate.

It was a few minutes before the re-commencement
of the performance, after the interval between
the first and second portions of the performance.


Mr Petman was still enjoying the honour of a
prolonged interview with the mayor  an interview,
in fact, in which his lordship proved himself
so affable and jovial that our worthy manager was
detained at his side much longer than he had
originally intended.

Thus, while one or two of the grooms where busy
in the sort of stable and greenroom all in one
which adjoined the ring, getting ready Signer
Patchouli's five thoroughbreds, whose docility and
grace were in a short time to delight the audience,
they were surprised by the entrance at a door

leading from the dressing-rooms of a young lady
evidently dressed for the performance, for there
were flowers in her hair, and her feet shod in
dainty white satin slippers. For the rest, a long
thick cloak covered her from shoulders to ankles.

When she entered, it was with rather an hesitating
step, and with a glance of timid inquiry.

This meeting with nothing but a not too polite
stare in return, she drew her cloak more closely
round her, and seating herself quietly on an empty
trunk which stood near, appeared to wait, as
though expecting some one.

A few moments later Signor Patchouli, the fat,
red-faced Italian, with an extraordinary fondness
for chewing tobacco, entered the tent, dressed ina
well-worn evening suit, white gloves, and carrying
the usual short and long whips. He always
personally superintended the trapping of his steeds,
and if any one of them was likely to prove " obstreperous,"
as the groom said, his master took pretty
good care he left them out of the performance.
The first thing on his entry, as usual chewing his
favourite quid, was to elicit from the grooms their
opinion of his appearance, and it was very funny
to listen to the men's remarks, and see how every
moment the trainer grew more and more puffed
up with his pride.

It was a well-known fact that the signor considered
himself the handsomest man in Europe,
and the pride he took in his personal appearance
was the cause of much amusement among
bis fellows, who never ceased to find fun in

flattering his vanity by the most extravagant
compliments. To-day he had got himself up with
extra care, and sorely lamented the fact of the
mayor being a bachelor ; had it been otherwise,
there would have been a chance of his (the
signer's) being summoned also to his lordship's,
or rather, had such a person existed, her ladyship's
presence.

It was most amusing to hear this old, self-imagined
beau, with his dyed hair, false teeth,
pencilled eyebrows, and painted and belonged
cheeks fishing for compliments like the silliest
schoolgirl, simpering and smiling at the slightest
piece of flattery, and yet seeming to think nothing
of the admirable training of his thoroughbreds,
a fact Which did him far more credit than his unceasing
efforts to improve his personal appearance.

Well, as I have said  indeed, as the men declared
with many gestures of wonderment, in
imitation of his own gesticulations  the signer,.
on the night of which I write, was looking more
than usually splendid ; indeed their expressive
looks, nods, and winks had the effect of rendering
the absurd little man quite jovial.

He was in the midst of detailing, to the amusement
of his listeners, how a princess of his own
country had, unknown to him, painted his portrait
and hung it up in her boudoir, when George
Epsom the renowned jockey-rider, entered the tent.

He was a tall, muscular-looking fellow, with a
figure which told of unusual strength, and a face
which would not have been unhandsome hud it

not been spoilt by an expression of cunning, which
at times deepened into one of singular hardness
and brutality. Nor did his looks belie his character.

He was one of those men who do not seem to
have a soft corner anywhere in their natures.
He had scarcely a real friend in the company ; 
Alas too much feared to be liked. He had a most
sullen, revengeful temper, beat even the manager
himself in the force of some of his expressions,
drank as hard as he rode, and certainly had not
the very best reputation among his companions.
But his tall, yet muscular figure, in the white
buckskins, top-boots, green Garibaldi and cap, was
a not unattractive feature in the show. As a rule,
he was shunned so far as was dared  vith one exception.


He and Madame Petite were fast friends. The
actual nature of their relationship was unknown.
Popular opinion averred that the big, unscrupulous
bully," as he was secretly called, had in some
"say managed to fascinate the weak-minded little
woman, much in the same way as the oft-quoted
serpent fascinates its prey ; though even by the
aid of that certainly not flattering comparison,
the relations were difficult to understand, for of
all natures least likely to attract, George Epsom's
was the one.

It was agreed that he must have some hold over
the foolish woman, but what this could be it was
difficult to determine, for she at once feared and
doted on him with an intensity which was perfectly
incomprehensible  blind to his faults,

bearing his moods with the utmost patience,
Worthy of a better cause, in every way his
obedient slave  while he completely baffled all
surmises by his manner in return, alternating
between absolute indifference and, more often, almost
brutal harshness, which was balanced by the
energy with which he looked after her interests.
These he seemed to put even before his own,
fighting even the manager himself on her behalf.
Owing to his efforts, her *' screw " was always
paid as promptly as his own, yet so poorly did
the little woman live that it was generally believed
she must have saved a tidy sum, unless, as
was more likely to be the case, she was in reality
the not too good natured jockey's slave, and
handed him all her earnings. This was more
than likely, for Epsom beat any of the company
by the ease, and even luxury, in which he lived,
a style far beyond his apparent means ; but if
such was truly the case, no one dared question
him ; indeed, if Madame Petite was content, and
such she certainly was to all appearances, what
reason was there for outsiders to interfere ?

To return to the point of ray story, from which
this digression has led me.

A BIG BULLY.

On the jockey's entrance into the tent, the signor
drew somewhat on one side, and continued his
anecdote concerning the princess in a lower voice,
apparently by no means anxious to call forth any
remark from the new comer, while Smith, one
of the stable men, began hastily to saddle the
"world-renowned racer. Daredevil," as though it
did not need a looking-glass to remind him of the
very black eye which disfigured his already not
too handsome features  the reward for his carelessness
of a few nights before  an attention on
his master's part, the marks of which would not
soon be obliterated.

The jockey, however, did not deign him so
much as a glance ; he sauntered, with his accustomed
swagger, through the ante-room, as, by
courtesy, it was called, and spent some time
surveying the audience, who were just returning
to their seats after the *' ten minutes allowed for
refreshments."

This done, he inspected the programme, and

finding that the third place in the list of performers
was that appointed for his friend the little
Frenchwoman  he himself occupied the first,
followed in the second by the wonderful performance
of the Anglo Japanese children on the
tight wire  he looked round expecting to find
her, but of course failed to do so.

It was the rule for every artiste to put in an
appearance in the ante-room during the performance
before his own, a rule which, considering the
very incomplete accommodation, was a source of
great discomfort to all concerned, but was enforced
by Mr Petman to ensure against the ring being
kept waiting.

Madame Petite, however, did not object to it
so much, especially when the jockey act preceded
her own, in which case she was sure to make her
appearance in time to witness her strange lover's
feats  day after day seeming to experience the
same delight and gratification at his triumph 
while, if on his appearance he deigned to favour
her with a nod or a word, the colour would flush
into her belonged and wrinkled cheeks, and she
would go through her performance with a spirit
and vigour truly surprising in one so old.

It appeared strange, no doubt, therefore, to
Epsom that on so grand an occasion as that of
which I write that she would have delayed her
appearance.

Doubtless she was engaged in paying a little
extra attention to her toilet, and would arrive ina
few moments in all the splendour of faded satin.

limp muslin, and well-worn artificial flowers, the
latter skilfully disposed amid her dyed yellow locks.

Epsom lounged near the door. He felt in a
particularly agreeable mood. Mr Petman's agreement
with most of his crack (?) riders was so
much per cent, on the profits  it was safest on
tour  and, if appearances were not deceitful, the
crowded house promised a good haul all round.

Under these circumstances, for double reasons
it might have been, the jockey felt somewhat
more inclined than usual to exert himself to be
amiable to his lady friend. He, as I said, awaited
her coming at the door, and after a little deliberation,
in which the exact amount of  s. d. was
calculated, deciding to bestow a little extra attention,
the trouble of bestowing the said attention,
to say nothing of the undue elation it might
inspire in the recipient's foolish heart, being over-weighted
by the remembrance of certain bills considerably
overdue, which, aimless paid by the time
of notice, might make it somewhat awkward for
the debtor. He was therefore going to exert
himself so far in his own interests as to personally
superintend the little fancy rider's act.

In order to do this, he offered an exchange of
ring duty with Will Breakneck, who was loudly
grumbling with his usual fluency about his inability
to keep an appointment which he had
made with several pals after his performance.

Epsom's offer was, therefore, joyfully accepted,
and Will departed in high glee, while the jockey-rider
began coolly calculating how far his projected

venture would extract him from his
pecuniary difficulties.

Time went by, however, and the object of his
schemes did not make her appearance, and the
bell for the band was just sounding, when Signor
Patchouli, elated by the lavish praise of the stablemen,
was endued with the idea of informing his
companion-rider that " Madame Petite was not to
appear that evening."

Who the devil told you that ? " asked Epsom,
glaring down at the well made-up little man
with an ugly look in his green-brown eyes which
boded ill to any one who might attempt to joke
with him.

It was been known all day to the company
that the poor lady is indisposed as she say."

"Ill again? " muttered Epsom, adding savagely
through his teeth as he turned on his heel, an
expression which was hardly for the invalid's well-
being.

Here was a nice upset to his plans. "No appearance,
no screw," was the rule. To say that
the jockey-rider was, it was plain, most severely
annoyed, would be to put it mildly.

He was in reality in a perfect state of fume,
such as defies description ; but, aware that his
discomfiture was apparent to his companions, he
did his best to pass it off, contenting himself with
muttering not too refined blessings from time to
time, when not engaged in biting the butt of his
whip, or switching with it savagely at everything
at hand.

Noting, however, after two or three moments
thus employed, that Smith, while dressing Daredevil's
mane, was enjoying vastly some joke with
Signor Patchouli, he (Epsom) instantly imagined
himself the cause of their merriment. He at once
conceived the idea of standing on his dignity, and
venting his spite upon some one for his ill-luck.

So determined, he strode across the apartment,
pushed the fat little Italian trainer roughly on
one side, much to the derangement of his toilet,
and proceeded to find fault  purely of his own
making  with the harnessing of his " fiery steed."
The stableman, knowing with whom he had to
deal, quietly accepted his loud-voiced raging, and
did his best to meet his approval. But Epsom
was bent on being put out, and at length carried
matters so far as to take the saddle from the
animal's back and fling it on the ground, by so
doing, bursting one of the straps by which it was
fastened, and which it would take some time to
repair, to say nothing of the blame which was
sure to be attached to the groom if the ring were
kept waiting.

Smith had already, more than once, through
Epsom's fault, got into disgrace. That the jockey
had a grudge against him was very evident. It
was generally believed Smith knew more of his
master's doing than made his proximity agreeable
to the latter, and at this new show of malice the
young fellow was tried beyond endurance.

He turned, and not unjustly, on his tormentor
with some hot-headed defiance, which was met

with such stinging contempt that the man forgot
all self-control, and, raising his arm, would have
struck his tormentor a not undeserved but certainly
most ill-advised blow.

He, however, found himself more than matched.
His upraised arm was caught in an iron grip, such
as made him wince with pain, and while he was
thus, as it were, defenceless, the lash of his
antagonist's short riding whip was sent stinging
across his face, from his forehead to his chin.

It was as brutal a blow as ever one man gave
to another. Holding in Daredevil was not calculated
to make one's grasp the most gentle one,
and to judge by the way he was in the habit of
springing forward under his master's touch, the
hand that held the whip knew how to cut.

The jockey's grip was in fact sufficient in his
merciless mood to have done the arm he held no
little injury, but the lash from the whip was like
that of the sharpest knife. As from such Smith
fell to the ground.

For an instant he lay as it were stunned, then
struggled to rise, blood flowing freely from the
wound on his face; he was roused to a positive fury,
yet even while he tried to regain his footing, the
cruel whip was again raised above his head. But
this time it did not fall. Alarmed at the prospect
of what appeared to be likely to develop into a
severe row. Jack Breakneck, the signor, and
several others of the company, overcame their
fear of incurring Epsom's displeasure, and stood
between the two would-be combatants, and before

he could say a word, the unfortunate Smith was
hurried off in the direction of the gentlemen'*
dressing-tent. He managed, however, to shake
his fist at the jockey, and utter a blessing on
Epsom's head, both of which were received by a
light laugh as the jockey tried his whip once or
twice in the air, and then bade one of the men
near see to the saddling of Daredevil.

He knew full well that he had might, if not
right, on his side. Smith had himself attempted
to strike the first blow, besides which, jockeys
were hard to get, a fact which would have far
more weight with Mr Petman than the stableman's
bruised arm and disfigured countenance. The
affair would be hushed up, Smith dismissed, perhaps,
and so one object at least would be gained.

Thus the jockey settled the matter in his own
mind, and was venting his remaining spleen by
savagely cutting the air with the lash of his whip,
when his eyes fell upon the black-cloaked figure
in the corner, the stranger girl, who had been a
spectator of the foregoing encounter, and not an
unmoved one.

At the first commencement of the disturbance
she had shrunk back fearfully into her corner.
When Smith had fallen she had sprung to her feet
with a cry of alarm, and her face, yet pale with
the terror she felt as she turned, met the jockey-rider's
gaze, and bore plainly on it her opinion of
his share in the matter.

It was but for a moment, however, that their
eyes met ; the brown ones drooped in an instant,

and turning to the signor, who stood near, Epsom
inquired in not too civil language " who the deuce
she was ? "

She is engaged to take Madame Petite's place,"
replied the old Italian, inwardly rejoicing at being
the one to inform the bully that the lady whom
he chose to honour with his attention had a rival

"Mr Petman has especially engaged her. And
put her on trial to-night, of all nights?" said
Epsom, suppressing a rather forcible exclamation.

Trial ! " said the little Italian, rolling his loved
quid round his mouth, and delighted at being able
to discomfort the bully, if only by means of his
own invention. " Trial ! There is no need. She

has belonged to , the greatest circus in the

world, for nearly five years, but wants to travel a
bit, and so has joined us. She is wonderful, they
tell me, quite a first-class novelty  fancy, of course
beats any one in her line, for, think, has she not
many things in her favour? She is young, very
clever, and beautiful. Yes, the La Signoriiia is
hellas'' and the old trainer rubbed his hands and
looked round him with an air of great conviction,
as though a lady who deserved praise from him,
and in his own language, must indeed be one of
Nature's favoured children.

The listener did not, however, seem so much
impressed at this praise of the new comer's personal
appearance as of her other attractions.

These, if correctly stated by Patchouli, mighty
together with her very inconvenient indisposition,
severely damage Madame Petite's position in she
VOL. I. D

company  a most undesirable contingency 
ivhich idea certainly did not tend to restore Epsom's
equanimity. He turned again to the stranger's
corner, and favoured her with such an insulting-stare,
at which, in spite of her pretended indifference
to it, she could not hide a growing discomfort,
betrayed by the angry flush which rose to
her face and burnt in her pale cheeks.

The insolent gaze, however, was not withdrawn;
indeed, Epsom had already advanced a
few steps in her direction, no doubt with the
intention of gaining a nearer view, perhaps to
force his attention upon her, when the band
entrance came to a close, and calling loudly to
the men to look sharp into the ring, the ring-master
entered the tent. This was a young man
of about four-and-twenty years of age, whose
office was plainly betokened by his dress, which
was somewhat of a better style than his subordinates,
and certainly suited him uncommonly well
the dark blue suit with the gold braid and
buttons, and white waistcoat, showing off his not
unmanly figure to advantage, which, together
vith his handsome face, clear-cut features, delicate
complexion, and curly brown hair, made
him not at all unattractive-looking. Added to
this, there was a certain self-possessed, dignified
air which marked him as somewhat more of a
gentleman, at least in outward appearance, than
his companions.

There was, however, very little time for more
than a brief glance at him, for he entered in

great haste, rang the bell for the performance to
begin, called hastily to the men, and with them
entered the ring, followed by one of the stablemen
leading Daredevil, and after a moment by the
jockey rider himself, whose appearance was the
signal for a burst of applause, which showed him
to be no little favourite with the audience, if not
with the actors.

This hearty reception was, however, responded
to by a not too respectful nod, and the performance
commenced.

And little as there was reason to admire the
performer, the performance itself was quite worthy
the marks of approbation which were freely bestowed
upon it. The jockey knew his business,
and on the day of which I write his mood led him
to try his steed to the utmost. With a few
strokes of his whip he urged the spirited
animal to its utmost speed, till it flew like
the wind, the sawdust flying under its heavy
hoofs, and while thus at full gallop he leapt
hurdles, unfastened the saddle, rode without it,
stood on the animal's back, leapt from it, sprang
sideways then cross-legged upon it, still going at
full speed, and the crowning feat of all  making
the animal shy violently when in the full swing
of a gallop, springing on to his feet on his back,
and, when it reared, leaping to the ground only
the moment its forefeet touched the sawdust, to
leap again on to its back and bring it to a sudden
stand-still on its knees  a climax which, as usual,
excited thunders of applause from the spectators.

LIBRARY

IJNIVFRSITV OF Illinois!:

Yet in spite of the very loud appreciation of
his labours, Epsom left the ring with the same
dogged demeanour as he had entered it, though
judging by Daredevil's condition, he had certainly,,
as the signor said, taken it out of him.

Now it so happened that as the horse was led
into the ante-room, it shook himself free from the
groom's hold and reared slightly, much to the
terror of the little Japanese children, who were
waiting to "go on." They drew back in fear,
which Epsom noting, laughed, and would have
led the still plunging horse yet closer to them,
but a figure interposed. The girl in the corner
had risen, and now, without so much as a glance
at the children-tormentor, drew them quietly into
one corner and gently calmed their fears.

Epsom's brow puckered into an ugly frown.
He said nothing, but turned out of the tent into
the dressing-room with an ugly look on his face
which boded no good to whoever had offended
him.

The young girl who had evidently done so,
seemed, however, to willingly forget his existence
when relieved of his presence. From behind the
curtains which hid the entrance to the ring, she
watched the not too interesting performance of the
children she had befriended, and when they passed
her on their exit, did not forget to smile and nod
kindly to them. It was only a little action, but
it spoke of a kind heart, and it cheered the little
ones, in whose lives gentle words and actions
were not too plentiful. And just then there was

-every reason for the girl to have been too much
engrossed in her own affairs to have had any
thought for others. She was a stranger to all,
and what was more, about to make her first trial
for an engagement after many repulses, and that
on a strange horse, and among people to whom
she was perfectly unknown whom she did not
yet know how to meet, where they friends or foes.
She could not tell, but as George Epsom reentered
the tent in the livery dress of the ring
she met his glance, there was an ugly look on
his face which made her nervous for the first
time about the performance which was to come.

A LITTLE FAIRY.

Yes, the moment has come for the trial ; for as the
little Japanese children are dragged wearily from
the ante-room to the dressing-room, there to resume
their rightful nationality, the ring-master
hurried into the tent.

Petite's not here, I suppose ? " he asked, no
doubt knowing how often the warmth of the
worthy Petman's anger and his threat of dismissal
had had the effect of completely curing indisposition.
"Petite not here?"

*'No, sir," said one of the men ; "but the boss
has sent some one to take her place."

Send her in sharp, then ; " and the ring-master
gave the signal to the band. The stranger began
to unfasten her cloak, while one of the grooms led
forward a big, ugly-looking white horse, on which
he hastily adjusted a pad. The girl advanced
towards him with a not too favourable glance in
the direction of the animal, evidently prepared for
her riding. It was, to say the least of it, not too
prepossessing in appearance.

The band struck up, and at the same moment
Epsom entered the tent in the Very dress of the
ring.

*look sharp, Burton," he said, "the governor's
coming. Those children are five minutes overtime,
and the Breaknecks '11 swear if they have to
cut their show short. Who's on now? Oh, the
new lady  going to ride the Emperor. Hope she
knows how to fall ; he's not been in the best of
tempers lately, and that short step of his plays
the deuce with any one but Madame Petite. But
that's the lady's look-out, if she risks riding him.'

Although the jockey addressed himself to the
groom, and did not so much as glance in the
*' young lady's " direction, he took care that his
words should be uttered loud enough to reach
her ears ; while as he spoke he slily touched with
the whip he held the Emperor, as he called the
horse she was to ride, causing the animal to start
backwards and plunge in a hasty manner.

The effect of this attempt to intimidate its intended
rider apparently succeeded, and the jockey
turned and entered the ring with an ugly smile on
his face.

The girl was, in fact, anything but looking
forward to her performance, and half regretted
having accepted the engagement, much as she
needed it, on such terms. Her hand shook slightly
as she ran it through her hair, and she looked
nervously round, as though in search of some
friendly face to reassure her. But the tent was
empty, save for two grooms, who paused in their

work and stared somewhat rudely at her as she
laid aside her cloak. The next moment she had
stepped through the velvet curtains and was in
the ring. The grooms and attendants drew aside
to let her pass, and her appearance was greeted
by a considerable burst of applause.

This she acknowledged by a slight bend of her
gracefully poised head, and almost before she
Ivnew where she was, without waiting for assistance,
had sprung on to the Emperor, and begun
her '' act."

Timidly at first she made the tour of the ring,
but after a moment, sprang to her feet and went
through the usual kneeling, jumping, and simple
performances, followed by the more difficult feats
of standing upright on the horse while leaping
barred gates, leaping banners, the broadest in
the show, jumping through balloons  all with the
agility and care which betrayed her no novice in
the art, and won her well-merited applause  not
that there was anything very remarkable in what
she did until the last portion of the act ; but to it
belongs an incident which, as it concerns the end
of this tale, may here be related.

The great feature of the new fancy rider's act
was to be a skipping-rope dance  the climax,
jumping over one broad banner and through a
hoop, a feat requiring no little nerve.

The young lady, however, prepared to undertake
it without any apparent trepidation, having
by that time completely recovered from her fit of
nervousness.

She made the circuit of the ring twice, waving
aside the banner and balloon, and was on
the point of making the desired leap. As she
neared it, a glance at the man who held the
drum showed her it was the jockey's evil face,
and the next moment either the Emperor made
the false step already spoken of, or Epsom's hold
was not fast enough, but certain it was that his
hand slipped, the girl staggered, the hoop remained
caught in her feet  she must have fallen,
but by a mighty effort saved herself from what
must have been a nasty tumble, and that with
an ease and dexterity that won loud applause
from the audience, who evidently appreciated
the skill of the young artiste.

It was, in fact, a clever thing to do. Even
those in the ring joined in the burst of applause,
and as she sprang to the ground the girl found
herself being lustily cheered, while the men who
had regarded her entrance somewhat coldly, looking
upon her as somewhat of an interloper, now
pressed eagerly forward for the honour of being
allowed to conduct her from the ring. Even the
ring-master himself wished for that office, a most
unusual thing for him to so far deign to notice
one of the performers. But no doubt he considered
one who had won such a mark of approval
from so exalted a person as the mayor was vorthy
his notice also.

With the intention, no doubt, of bestowing this,
he stepped forward as the favoured artiste sprang
lightly from her horse to the ground.

To his surprise his proffered hand was not
noticed. The girl hardly so much as glanced at
him, but with a smile as of recognition turned toto
whom ?  none other than Jerry, the clown,,
whose tricks and antics had come in the intervals
of her performance. Jerry evidently, as one
could tell by his face, in spite of the paint, was
totally at a loss to understand why the honour
was awarded to him. He was a queer sort of
fellow, this Jerry  a general favourite among the
company, for a wonder occupying that position
without possessing a proportionate number of
enemies, as rough-and-ready a fellow that ever
existed, but pure gold to the very core, in spite of
a not too prepossessing exterior. As I have said,
he was a clown, and a very good one, too, such
a favourite always with his audience, especially
the younger members of it. He had only to poke
his painted face, with its skull-cap covering every
scrap of hair, and crowned by the most absurd of
sugar-loaf hats, round the edge of the curtains
at the entrance to the ring, and the boys were
certain to give him such a welcome as made the
place ring, while the appearance of his rather short
figure, clad in the most voluminous suit of bright
scarlet, ornamented, or rather disfigured, by large
black cats in the position that animal assumes
when she encounters one of the canine tribe
one of these especially prominent in the middle
of his back  was sure to double the merriment.


Such was Jerry's costume, one in itself likely to

cause laughter, even if the wearer's dry humour
and ape-eke tricks failed to do so.

But this was not likely, and the day of which I
write had been no exception to the rule which
announced the clown's performance a decided
success. It had gone well that night, and had
Jerry been less intent upon his work he might
have seen he had an amused spectator even in
the ring itself.

 This, as was not likely, was not in one of the
regular company. The old clowning tricks were
too well-known to them to arouse even a languid
interest. No, the spectator alluded to was the
young girl, the new fancy rider who now, when
the performance was ended, preferred his escort
from the ring to that of the more distinguished
ring-master. Jerry was astonished, but as there
was nothing else to do but to take the little
white-silk gloved hand which was held out to
him, he took it  a little awkwardly it must be
confessed  in one of his own big hot ones  one,
two, three little skips, and the lady was inside the
crimson curtains.

But his office was not to end there. The audience
were evidently very well pleased with the
performance they had just witnessed, and loudly
called for the re-appearance of the performer to
receive their well-merited commendation. Thus
Jerry found himself leading the young lady back
into the ring and again conducting her into the
ante-room. Here he dropped the hand he held,
and looked curiously towards his companion.

A smile of recognition met his gaze, and a pair
of brown eyes, bright with fun, were raised to his.

Jerry was, as he afterwards expressed it, " perfectly
at sea." The girl was not so, for smihug
seven more at his evident astonishment, she looked
up at him, and said, in pretty broken English 

I see you don't know me."

Well," said Jerry, twitching his cap off his
head, and glancing down, still somewhat confused,
" can't say I do."

I should have said you do not remember me,
is it not? Have you forgotten the night at
Grimston, when you were so good as to fight
those men who annoyed me % "

A sudden light dawned upon Jerry's mental
vision.

What," he said, " are you the young lady I
spoke to that night? Who'd have thought

strand

in his astonishment Jerry so far forgot his
manners as to set his cap at the back of his head,
pucker up his hips into a noiseless whistle, and
inserting his hands into the pockets of his
trousers, draw them out to the farthest extent,
while his green-grey eyes took unconsciously
mental note of the figure before him.

The same girl he had rescued from the insults
of the drunken wretches on the night of the last
performance at Grimston ! As Jerry very frankly
put it, " Who'd have thought it ? " For truly so
great was the contrast, even allowing for the
altered circumstances between then and now.

that there was small wonder Jerry should "not
have thought it."

What he had seen then we already know ;
what he saw now has yet to be described. And
that was  the same slightly made figure, clad this
time, not in the shabby black dress so soiled and
travel-stained, but in the daintiest, yet simplest of
fancy (I should say fairy) costumes of the palest
mauve satin, tastefully trimmed with lace, and
Covering the usual ballet skirt, the bodice cut
slightly low at the neck, exposing a delicately
moulded throat, which rivalled in its creamy purity
the soft lace which was gathered up round it, the
sleeves shorthand showing a pair of little white arras
half hidden by the silk gloves already mentioned ;
her feet encased in satin slippers wondrously small,
and, if of but poor material, neat and pretty also,,
while to complete this dainty costume a perfect
bundle of dusky-brown curls were caught up loosely
by some fresh white flowers, a few which had strayed
from confinement resting in picturesque confusion
over her shoulder, while others, even more rebellious,
had broken loose altogether, and stood up
in a perfect halo round the well-shaped little head

And the face beneath ? Well, that of course
had not undergone any material alteration, and
yet  no, it was not the same as before, for there
was the great difference one finds in reviewing
the same landscape when overshadowed by clouds
and when gilded by the brightening sun's rays.

When Jerry had first seen this face it was when
the clouds of sadness had darkened it. Now he

looked upon it with the sunshine of happiness
warming it into Hfe, and making it doubt what
it was when seen in the gloom. Yes, indeed. If
the little round face, with its delicately-moulded
features and pretty brown eyes had taken the
young clown's fancy when he had first looked
upon them on that dreary night after the performance
at Thurley, there was little wonder the
sight of the same face, with the brown eyes full of
fun, and looking up at him with a half shy, half
amused glance, should not only irresistibly please
him for the moment, but somehow a picture of it
finds its way into his mind, and, what is more,
stays there, until  but I do not think I had better
define how long the impression remained.

Rather let me come back to my story, with
many apologies for having dallied so long over
this description of my heroine, who after all, perhaps,
did not look half so captivating as hundreds
of other girls whom the reader may have seen in
the ring. Let me give as an excuse for so doing
the fact of my wishing to set her forth before
inquiring eyes exactly as she appeared to my
hero on those two first occasions he saw her.

Be this as it may, he certainly looked very droll
as he bent his stunted little figure in order t( get
a better view of the young lady who stood before
him. "Who'd have thought it?" was his exclamation,
a very frank, if hardly a strictly polite
one.

But the object of his comment did not seem
to see anything at all amiss with his outspoken

wonder, but she answered the comprehensive
glance at her Httle person with a
bright smile.

Ah," she said gaily, in the pretty broken
English, which, added to her singularly soft, gentle
voice, gave, at least to one listener, a double
charm to every word she uttered. *' Ah," with a
quaint little gesture of the hand to emphasize the
expression, " am I so much changed in so short a
time, or is it that you have not  what is it you
call it  not any remembrance ? "

I don't think it's that," said Jerry, rather shyly.
I don't think it's that. I know you now ; it
wasn't very likely I should forget your face soon,
that is  " he stammered, compliments, as I have
said, not being at all in his line  he was so used
to the coarse expressions, so called, which passed
among those around him that he seemed half
ashamed of hearing one pass his lips, was quite
surprised at having framed it, and not a little
angry with himself too  " that is, you see, you
were in trouble  and  " he was going to say
and looked it," but paused, thinking this might
sound somewhat rough, and, like many people,
having put his foot in a hole, instead of letting
the matter rest, made matters worse by trying to
withdraw it, and so showed the size of the rent
of his manners. " You were in trouble, I helped
you out," this he thought sounded very like asking
for more gratitude, so he hastened to add,
Not that that's an unusual thing for me, I'm
always doing it  (" Jerry, my boy," was here his

inward comment, as through force of habit he
made use of a " ring expression," " Jerry, my
boy, you're a born musician  you're Al at the
concertina, you came out strong as first fiddle,
while, bless me, if here you wouldn't take the
prize for blowing your own trumpet)  that is,
you see, I remember you well  like, because 
because you're very like some one I knew once 
an old friend of mine  in fact, my great aunt "
(" That's a lie, Jerry, you never had an aunt, my
friend "). " My wonder," he added, to try and
cover his very innocent fib, " is, that you remember
 that is, recognised me."

"Well, I cannot say I did exactly that," and
another smile played around the little red mouth,.
as the brown eyes, dancing with fun, took in
every detail of the clown's absurd costume, which
they evidently heartily appreciated. " To tell you
the strict truth " (Jerry here felt a twinge of conscience),
" I knew your voice " (" raised in the everlasting,
Here I am again," thought Jerry, with, he
knew not why, a half-unconscious wish that the
recognition had taken place through means of
other utterances than the well-worn phrase).

*' Well, I can't say I recognised you so quickly,,
and I couldn't make out why it was you elected
to let me bring you off, when the young master
himself was handy ; it ain't often he concerns
himself If I'd have been you, if you want to get
on here, I'd have let him exert himself to take
notice of you."

** Do you think I ought ? I did not think of it

I never do of those sort of things. I am not
used to  what is it you say  contriving those
things."

This was said with such an air of perfect simplicity,
in spite of a would-be anxious look in the
brown eyes, that there was no mistaking the truthfulness
of the statement.

Be this as it may, there was something so winning
in the girl's manner that Jerry restrained a
smile which rose to his lips, drew himself up
from his absurd attitude, twitched up his cap off
his head, with a motion of apology, and said
heartily, 

And so you're one of us ; I thought as much
made a rough guess at that the first time I saw
you, because " (no doubt anxious to give his right
one for the supposition, for fear a wrong one
should be taken), " because I somehow guessed
you weren't the sort of girl to go in among
those rough folks unless you went on business.
But I didn't expect to see you again so soon.
When I heard we'd got a new hand on to take
Madame Petite's place, I didn't think it was you,
although I might have guessed it, but even when
I saw you, I like to be so busy when I am at
work, that I didn't notice." And in a few minutes
Jerry found himself chatting away quite at his
ease with the stranger about the success of her
late performance, and such matters relative to
the business, in which he found her to have but
little knowledge, considering her skill in riding,
but this she explained by telling frankly how
VOL. I. E

hitherto she had always had her other to see
after the matter for her  ah, hitherto  until that
"terrible time, just three months before this story
opens, when a .severe cold had stirred the treacherous
seeds of consumption, and two short weeks
had seen the feeble flame flicker and die out
altogether.

So much Jerry learnt in his few moments' conversation
with the girl  a conversation which
was carried on much to the amusement of some
of the grooms who were standing by, who inquired
among themselves whether the new comer
was a relative of the clown's.

*' Cuss me, if I've ever seen him engaged so
long with a woman before," said Jones, busily
engaged in plaiting the Emperor's mane preparatory
to the morrow's performance  a process
which was somewhat difficult, owing to the dislike
evinced to it by that animal. " Must be a relation."

Bless'd if he ain't precious lucky then. Wish
I had a few relations half as good-looking and
clever at the work ! I'd make 'em keep me. Did
you see how the guv'nor was keeping his eye on
herl Madame Petite has made a mess of it this
time. By Jove ! won't Epsom fume." And here
followed some remarks of hardly a complimentary
nature to the jockey.

At the same moment Jerry's supposed relation
was saying, '' I was so vexed at that slip of mine,
it was so what you call clumsy. Do you think
Mr Petman thought so of it ? "

*' Was it a slip ? " said Jerry, whose quick eye

lead assured him to the contrary. " I thought,"
he paused  it was no use troubling the girl with
the knowledge that so soon she had made an
enemy in the camp, and that one not a little to
be feared. " I thought," he went on, " it was part
of the show. Epsom has the trick himself, but he
aren't use it too often."

' Epsom," said the girl ; " is he the jockey rider?"

Yes, he was holding the balloon," slipped out

from Jerry ; but he had no time to try and repair

his blunder, as he imagined it, for as he spoke

Epsom entered the ring.

The scowl had not disappeared from his brow.
He was evidently annoyed at the failure of his
malicious trick to the young fancy rider. He
glanced in her direction, favoured her with an
ill-disguised scowl, which fortunately she did not
see, and then crossing left the tent, no doubt to
seek Madame Petite and consult with her upon
the difficulties of the situation.

Scarcely had he disappeared when the curtains
parted again, and this time the ring-master
entered. He also favoured the two so earnestly
in conversation with a languid glance out of his
grey eyes, and then strolled up to them.
Miss Hartzmann, 1 believe ? "
At the sound of her name the girl started, and
turned from where she stood slowly drawing off
her white gloves and chatting pleasantly to her
companion. In reply to the ring-master's question,
she bent her head with that shy, graceful
motion which distinguished all her actions.

** Mr Petman desires me to say that he will see-you
before you go. You will find him in the small
tent at the entrance."

"I thank you, and will go to him."
In spite of the foreign accent which  (Jerry
wondered why, but knew afterwards, that it was
when the speaker was either nervous or excited)
was plainly distinguishable, the ring - master
evidently did not recognise in the speaker a ,
and as he turned away, muttered,
half to himself, half aloud, in German,
Dainty as a fairy, and yet withal a mortal I "

The words, though evidently not so intended,,
fell upon the girl's ears. She started, a sudden
flush of rich warm colour dyed her face, she made
a step forward, and seeming to forget that in
acknowledging she knew the import of his words
she betrayed consciousness of their meaning, said,,
with childish eagerness, " You speak German. You
come from my country."

The ring-master could not but smile at the
question and tone. He was used to meeting
people from his own country, who certainly never
evinced so much interest as this girl apparently
felt. But it was impossible to look down at the
little figure in its theatrical dress, which was yet
so simple and pretty, and at the bright face with
the look of expectant inquiry in the sweet brown
eyes, and not feel not just the least little bit
flattered by her interest, but also in a measure
to return it.

This was something of the feeling which that

-one glance at the girl's face aroused in the young
ring-master ; certainly he was nothing loth that
on the ground of their nationality his acquaintance
should be so frankly claimed.

He replied to the girl's question in his own language,
leaving her no room to doubt that her
supposition was right.

nor, this done, did he seem very eager to end
the conversation ; nay, rather lingered at her side,
while Jerry, who thus found himself somewhat
left out of the conversation, drew on one side,
and for a moment watched the two, who saw in
each other a friend because each came from the
same country.

And truly as they stood together they made no
unfavourable picture  the young fellow, the dress
of the ring becoming his figure to advantage, his
whip still in hand  his head, with its crop of
l)rown curls, bent in an attitude of listening  his
handsome face bearing on it a look of languid
interest which became it well, and showed it in
contrast to the animated one of his companion,
which, in spite of more than one effort on his
part to obtain a good view, was kept persistently
turned away from him.

It was curious to notice the contrast in the
girl's manner to that of a few moments before. To
Jerry she had been as frank and outspoken as if
they had been old friends. As she stood before
the young nng-master a sudden shyness seemed
to have come over her.

She hardly once after that first time raised her

eyes to bis face ; his were pretty freely bent
down to meet her gaze bad she done so. One
hand was busily engaged in smoothing down the
satin folds of her dress, the other half unconsciously
fingered a string of golden pearls she
"wore twisted round her throat. Two things betrayed
her nervousness. Almost each time she
spoke, the plump white shoulders rose and fell
under their covering of soft white lace ; while,
from time to time, as the soft voice of her companion
uttering the sound she seemed to drink
in so greedily  that utterance of her own language
 the bright flush in her face deepened to
a sudden glow of warm crimson.

Although at the time he did not know it, Jerry
noted all these things, and by-and-by  But
there, let the by-and-by care for itself.

For a few moments Jerry watched the tete-tete
which had grown out of his OAvn with a stranger,
then, satisfied that for her to have an ally
in the young ring-master would considerably enhance
the girl's prospect of getting an engagement,
he left the tent, and proceeded to divest
himself of his ring costume, and to appear once
more in the world in the ordinary dress of rational
mortals, although he once said, " There's more
fools wear fight lavender, frock coats, and top-hats
than ever one sees in the ring or behind the
fortnight."

He saw no more of the little German girl that
night, but if you ask me the strict truth, he did
ii(vt wholly forget her existence, for on his way

home more than once when a little figure, soberly
clad in black, passed him, he strained his neck to
catch a glimpse of the face beneath the bonnet or
hat, whichever the case might be, as if half expecting
to recognise in the wearer some one who
was not very far from his thoughts.

But each time he was disappointed. Miss
Hartzmann had long before sought her humble
lodgings in a totally different part of the town,
where, if she dreamt at all, I fear I must own it
was not the friendly, but certainly not handsome,
face of the good-natured young clown that
haunted her slumbers, if other better-favoured
features did trouble, or rather, shall I say kindle,
in them a touch of romance. Whose they were I
am not at liberty to say.

MY HERO.

My hero ! The hero of my tale, which I am afraid
will not be much of a one after all, only telling
a little of the affairs of a small corner  a very small
corner  of this busy world of ours, the tale of one
whose whole life was all for others, and who yet,
it seems to me, had a more than an unusually
large share of troubles and trials.

Yes, although he bore his troubles bravely,
worked as earnestly as the rest of his fellow-creatures,
his life, compared with theirs, was
perhaps more worthy of reward in the end, I am
sorely afraid the hero of this poor little tale will
at first appear anything but likely to inspire the
admiration that the title seems to demand.

Truth to tell, by name and vocation he wasn't
a hero at all. He was simply, and quite contented
to remain so, Jerry the clown. Nothing
very heroic about the sound of that, you see.

Jerry the clown !  a circus clown ! Not even
one of those magical beings who appear only
at Christmas amidst the glare of the dazzlingly

gorgeous transformation scene, ready with the
well-known greeting, *' Here we are again," favouring
the idea that their existence is of the
butterfly order ; that during the summer  who
sever saw a real clown when the foxgloves were
in bloom ? one might as well talk of a sea-side
holiday in December  the' have been curled up
in a snug chrysalis in order to be able to burst
forth upon us in winter in all the splendour of
paint and powder, and gorgeously ridiculous costume,
to us appearing not one whit changed since
we saw them twelve months before, nay, since
perhaps we as children laughed at the same
pranks and tricks that please us still, in spite of
the fact that happy childhood lies far behind us,
and sober man or womanhood has laid their care
upon us. No, I say, Jerry was not one of these.
He was simply a circus clown. When I say that,
I don't even mean he belonged to one of those
world-renowned affairs which rise from the level
of an ordinary circus into the more dignified state
of a hippodrome. No, Jerry did not even belong
to one of these. He was, as we have seen, justa
clown in a travelling circus, which, even though
it belonged to the mighty Petman, as he loved
to consider himself, was, after all, no very grand
show, its mission, as its name implied, to travel
about from place to place to give the simpleminded
country folk a taste of the delights afforded
by the big cities, the pleasures of which
-appear to them to be almost too delightful even
to be dreamed of.

Such was the company which I have ah-lady
introduced to my readers, and of which my heroine
had already made the acquaintance, so luckily for
her, as it afterwards appeared.

To it Jerry had belonged ever since he could
remember; in fact, from the very moment of his
birth, that event taking place when Papa Jerry
was in the ring going through his marvellous
tumbling act, which consisted in apparently doing
his best to dislocate every bone in his own
power-ful frame, and at the same time to do as
much injury as was possible to the wiry, boneless
bodies of his numerous offspring.

Jerry, senior, I may add in passing, was the
first strong man of the show, and it was during
"attitudinising" interval, as Jack Breakneck
called it, a not inappropriate name for that period,
when the young Ferries, already six in number,
who, being able to walk, were, figuratively speaking,
supposed to have inherited an inborn knowledge
how to tumble, when I say these boneless
infants devoted some moments to the assuming
of various attitudes suggestive of " Defiance, "
*eat His Mercy," adoration," "Pity," and suchlike
striking tableaux. The second strong man
of the company, actuated, no doubt, by malicious
motives, took upon himself to announce
to the happy (?) father the further addition
to his family in the shape of the ugliest little
red-faced, green-eyed, " puggy-feathered young-hopeful
 Jerry number seven. If, as I have said
the intention of the second strong man was-slightly

tinged by professional jealousy, he did
not for one moment trump. Hercules  in
private life, Jerry  was so overcome by the
news imparted to him, that, it is reported, he
unconsciously lifted his two largest weights in
sone hand, and never noticed his mistake until
a tumultuous burst of applause from the astonished
audience roused him to the fact of his great
achievement.

Indeed, so loud was the appreciation of the
feat, that the worthy Petman, then somewhat
younger than when we first make his acquaintance,
offered our hero's father double his salary
to repeat the experiment, say every week, an
offer, however, which Jerry senior was compelled
to decline, for, as he said to his wife, with a doleful
shake of his head, "considering the circumstances,
he didn't quite see how it was to be
managed." And of course Mrs Jerry agreed with
him.

I may here add that for his intention to injure
Jerry senior's professional reputation, an intention
which, as we have seen, had the very reverse
effect, the second strong man was most severely
punished.

The week following the addition to the family
of his superior in strength, the wife of the said
artist presented him with twins, the receipt of
which news had such a disastrous effect upon him
as to render him so weak that from that day forth
he was incapable of lifting even so much as
one weight. He was a strong man no longer.

aud the last heard of him was that he had given
up that line of business and taken a new one,
which consisted, according to some opinions, in
trying his utmost to commit a mortal injury on
the bodies of his twin sons, or at least to cripple
them for life, but, fortunately for them, not possessed
of sufficient power even to accomplish so
slight if somewhat singular an object.

Bat to return to my tale.

The existence of young Jerry, commenced under
what were considered auspicious circumstances,
was not later on distinguished by any event
worthy of note.

Like his elder brothers, he received a thorough,
if somewhat rough, education in the tumbling business,
and until he was eighteen continued to
form one of what his father advertised as the
' Happy Jerry Family," a name which was frequently
belied by the numerous black eyes,
swollen lips, and such like evidences of family
rows.

At this point in his career, Jerry senior, who
had long since grown to be somewhat chary of
having his weights too closely examined, managed
to let one of the heaviest fall upon his
chest.

So trifling was the inconvenience it occasioned
him, that had it not been for a whispered reminder
on the part of his eldest son, the strong man
would most assuredly have continued his performance
as though nothing unusual had happened.


The whispered caution of Jerry junior No. 1,
however, recalled him (Jerry senior) to the fact
of the situation, and with great credit to his
powers of deception, he allowed himself to be
carried limp and helpless from the ring, amidst
"the splendidly simulated sobs and terror of his
numerous offspring. And now comes the strangest
part of the story. Just when bills of the most
gorgeous description, both as regards colour and
the quantity of notes of interrogation, were in
the act of being printed, to be posted on every
available point of Vantage in the town, announcing
the accident and timely recovery of Hercules
the strongest man in the world ; Mr Petman having
agreed with the famous invalid, for a certain
consideration, that his recovery should be postponed
to give time to make what he called a big-advertisement
out of the accident  news was
brought which somewhat upset these far-seeing
calculations.

On the same evening, when the performing-hercules
covered himself with glory in the eyes
of his fellow artists  who, as he said, were in the
swim, by aiding to make a hit out of the accident
dodge  thereby caused it to be officially (i.e., not
to say truthfully) stated, that owing to a severe
accident, he would not, as usual, go through his
wonderful feats  as Will Breakneck's father, who
was a clown in his time, artistically in more ways
than one, put it, he gave up the strong-man job
light weights even couldn't make him hanson.
He went all of a sudden as weak as a rat 

had no more strength in him than a new-born
baby. He did the trick too well  some one ashe
didn't expect had his eye on him  and gave
him the wink as how he'd best drop it, which he
did, just as easy as he did the weight. He
won't no use ; we're all," as he said " in the
swim, but his time was up. This show won't
good enough for him no longer. They wanted
him in a better one, so they just gave him no bell
nor nothing, no music, but just hustled him straight
into the big ring, and afore a audience as knows
what is and what isn't, and let him take his
chance. It won't no use him keeping up the
game no longer  even with light weights it was
no go  so he just gave up and went as weak asa
rat, and went off as meek as a blessed baby."

The juggler's words, strangely confused as they
may seem to some ears unaccustomed to " pro
jargon," were only too true.

The trick had been played too well ; so well, in
fact, that when reality took its place, no one
scarcely knew how, except as AVill put it  singularly
quoting words from a book on which his
eyes had never rested for many years  " The
strong man became as a little child." He did go
off quietly. His exit was just as calm as though
he was going to sleep for a while instead of forever.


In the morning it was known that the show
had lost one of its greatest attractions.
The strong man was dead.
His widow wept copiously, but I think the person

most concerned was the worthy Petmau. All
his trouble over the big advertisement was to be
wasted. He was bemoaning this when suddenly
she had been dining somewhat lavishly on stewed
feels and champagne, which may account for anything
so brilliant occurring to his not too vivid
imagination) he was struck with what he called a
bright idea, the result of which was that on the
following day bills concerning the strong man
were after all issued. The announcement these
conveyed was a somewhat singular one.

They stated in letters of the bright scarlet and
green the sorrowful fact of the death of the renowned
Hercules, and added, that to do honour
to this, the strongest man the world had seen
since the days of David and GoHath (this caused
some dispute among several members of the Sunday
school, arguments being rife as to whether David
or Goliath was the man of power, or more than
once, indeed, whether they were not both so
gifted), it was decided to honour his memory and
benefit his widow, by giving him what was singularly
called a '' professional funeral," to be immediately
followed by a performance, the proceeds
of which were to be placed at the service
of his bereaved family.

The meaning of the expression, "a professional
funeral," was also the cause of much contention.


"Cuss me," said one wag, after reading the
aforesaid bill over half a dozen times in a loud
voice for the benefit of those around him who had

not received the advantages of education ; " Cuss
me, if they'd have said a property funeral I could
have understood it  buried nightly at 9.30 P.M.,
you know  but a professional funeral  I give it
up."

And the young man turned away, no doubt
thoroughly satisfied that what was beyond his-comprehension
would be far above that of ordinary
mortals, such as he was not.

The true explanation of the phrase, however,
was soon given.

The funeral of Hercules  or rather of all that
remained of his once mighty frame  was appointed
to take place at one o'clock.

Accordingly, at that hour, the whole town was
on the qui vive to have their curiosity satisfied,,
which was done, but in a manner somewhat different
to what even the wildest imagination had
conjured up. The idea was one which the worthy
Petman had picked up in France, and the manner
in which it was carried out was certainly singular
in the extreme.

Towards mid-day signs of subdued bustle and
preparation were heard in the covered courtyard
which for the time was the abiding-place of the
show ; and a little later, through the gates and out
into the town streamed such a procession as surely
never before had been seen.

At first sight this appeared to be the usual
pageant which announced the entry and exit of
the Petman show, but a second glance completely
altered the idea.

The show it was to be sure, but on a very different
errand to the usual one.

Let me describe it.
 First and foremost, as usual, came an imposing
band of grooms in their splendid costumes of green
velvet coats, top boots with gold spurs, and three-cornered
plumed hats, the leader distinguished by
a crest somewhat larger than the rest ; next in
order eight ponies driven single-handed by the
trainer in his costume which somewhat resembled
that of a senator  inappropriate as it might be
considered  the long silver beard, round velvet
cap, and flowing crimson robes making his a rather
imposing appearance; then the juggler's car, on
which on a gorgeously painted throne, raised in
the midst of numerous stands of " implements," as
Will Breakneck called them, the man of tricks
posed in a most dignified attitude; then more
horses, gaily caparisoned, remarkable for their
arched necks and the pretty manner in which they
picked their way; then the performing dogs on
their car, their mistress keeping strict guard over
them, in a costume which she boasted had been
worn by her during her performance, which had
been witnessed by his Majesty Napoleon III. and
had been greatly admired by him ; then the usual
complement of lords and ladies in their gorgeous
robes, some of the trappings of their chargers
sweeping the ground, the plumes waving in the
wind ; interspersed amongst these, bearers with
the banners of every colour, shade and description
fluttering from the poles, and, stay, before the
VOL. I. F

procession moves further we have discovered what
there is curious in its appearance, for see on each
arm the grooms have a black band fastened, the
banner-bearers likewise, the banners partly hidden
by the same sombre drapery oi crepe ; the juggler
wears a broad scarf of the same over his gay dress ;
his car and that of the dog trainer is likewise
decorated ; the dogs wear the same coloured bows
instead of their usual gay collars ; the horses have
the same amidst their gay trappings ; the bandsmen,
too, wear the same badge, and the time to
which they play " Lo, the conquering hero comes,"
is very slow, and they march almost solemnly toit.


What does it all mean ? These crepe badges 
this slow march ? Who is the " hero ? " There is
no need to ask the question twice, for behind the
band, surrounded by more knights than ladies, and
drawn by eight horses, which step slowly along,
owing no obedience to any bridle or rein, their
trapping almost entirely hidden by the crepe
scarves, comes what is known as the Britannia
car. Her Majesty, it is true, stood in regal state
at the head, but a widow's weeds showed from
under her helmet ; round her, grouped in their
most effective attitude of " submission," were her
numerous offspring, but the body of the car is, in
this instance, draped entirely in black, on which
reposed, in solitary state, for the last time taking
his place in the show, all that remained of the
strongest man in the world. A plain deal coffin,
adorned by no brass ornaments, but such floral trin



butes as his friends had been able to bestow at the
foot, somewhat after the idea of a soldier's accoutrements
; the weights he had been wont to throw
-when alive were piled up one above the other, a
crept banner waving over all. Following this car
and its singular load, came the other cars and wonders
of the show, the rear as usual closed by the
clown, in honour of the occasion seated the right
way upon his patient ass, and followed by the manager,
wearing, also in honour of the dismal occasion,
a pair of black gloves and a broad hatband.

Never before had such a singular procession
traversed English streets ! The inhabitants of

N gathered in throngs to mark its progress,

marking in open-mouthed wonder each detail ; at
every step some gazer joined the crowd which
already followed in its steps, determined to seethe
end of the strange affair, until, when the
cemetery was reached, the followers numbered
many hundreds.

At the burial ground gates, a walking procession
was hastily formed  the huge coffin, hoisted
on the shoulders of seven of the knights, headed
by the trainer, and followed by the bereaved
widow supported by the manager.

Surely never before had such a scene been
enacted as that presented by this singular gathering
round " the strong man's " grave ; the gorgeous
and singular dresses of the mourners, in
contrast to those of the wondering spectators, the
weeping widow and her seven fatherless children
a sorry sight  their grief for one who had been

after all a good father to them strangely at variance
with their costumes.

But it was over at last, and the procession
streamed back to town, at a faster rate than it had
left it, for it was drawing near the time for the
evening performance, and Mr Petman was a little
anxious as to its being a success.

But he need not have feared.

Thus, a little later, those who had wept beside
a comrade's grave were disporting themselves
amidst the applause and laughter of a crowded
audience.

At first, a few of the company were rather, as
the ring-master put it, inclined to moralise, the
first clown especially being very much given that
way. This was excusable, as his father had been
a Methodist parson of some standing, but had ill-treated
his wife to such a degree, that his young
son, of whom I speak, had run away and joined a
circus as a clown, at which business he did far
better than ever his father before him. He could
not, however, always prevent the old liking for
speechifying, and in the case in question had to
be reduced to order by the administration of a
quart of "half-and-half," which had the effect of
effectually stopping his mouth and performance
too.

The show, however, was a great success, and
so closed the chequered career of the mighty
Hercules.

His wife and children, as I have said, mourned
him sincerely, and then, recalled to the fact that

regretting the dead will not keep the living
alive, began to consider what was best to be
done.

It was decided that the Happy Family must be
broken up.

The sum realised by the funeral performance,
as it got called, was sufficient to enable Mrs Jerry,
once one of the most imposing Britannia in any
show in the United Kingdom, and at the same
time one of the weakest members of the strongman's
United family, to set up a mangle, with
which, and the memory of her departed glory, she
still, if standing at her front door in a little hut
somewhere in Dust Heap Alley, found herself
much to the admiration of her neighbours, who
were familiar with her antecedents, assuming the
old dignified posture ; indeed, it is rumoured, I
cannot say with how much truth, that when
rheumatics, asthma, and suds had done their work,
and the old lady was well-nigh following her
strong man to the big town where performers
Event in one by one, to which no procession with
bands and banners and flags ever wended its
way, it is rumoured, 1 say, that with her last expiring
effort the ex-Britannia rose from her bed,
wrapped her now shrivelled form in a gorgeous
table cover, clapped a cake tin, or cullender  it is
uncertain which, tradition points to the latter 
upon her head, rested one hand upon a battered
tea-tray, with the other supported herself upon
a, gigantic fork with which it had been her habit
to fork her linen from out of the depths of her

gigantic copper, and so, like the Emperor Claudius,,
a humble but resolute imitator, died standing.

As I have said, whether this tale is true or not
it is not in my power to say. My acquaintanceship
with Dust Hole Alley is but slight, therefore my
information lacks the support of personal knowledge.

Of the rest of the strong man's family, save, of
course, he with whom this story has to do, I must
also own to knowing but little.

The eldest of his numerous family, it is believed,
kept to the tumbling business, until a
broken arm made him unfit for the business, so,
having always been of a religious turn, he became
a captain in the Salvation Army, where the poster
of his exhortations was greatly increased by the
fact that he was known, when greatly agitated
in some good cause, to stand on his head for
several minutes, to resume his natural position by
throwing a double somersault, and even sometimes,
when extra fervour was required, to make
series of wheels which Avould have made any
street boy green with envy.

This line of conduct had the effect of calling
many to the good cause, which recompensed for the
slight damage to the uniform which it occasioned I

Of the six remaining youths, three married out
of the business, and went into trade, their spouses
objecting to the show ; the remaining two thought
they could make more out of the street dodge,
and to this day you may, during your summer
holiday in some south of England resort, see two
wizened old men, huddled in dirty, patched coats,.

originally blankets, beneath which are " baggy
blessings " and costumes of the dingiest and most
tawdry sort, who with great care and no small
difficulty perform a few tricks such as any street
-Arab would be ashamed to execute.

Of the three in business, one, who with his
wife's dowry set himself up in a nice grocery
store, had always a lingering affection for the
old business. When the honeymoon was over,
he used to practise his old tricks in the shop, until
obliged to forbear owing to the avalanche of
soap, candles, matches, sides of bacon, pounds of
sugar, etc., that his tumbles involved upon his
head, to say nothing of more than one gentle reminder
from his wife that " the shop was bought
with her money, and she wasn't going to have it
upset by no impish tricks."

One day, somewhat later in his career, after
following a travelling circus for two miles and a
half out of the town, during which time his affectionate
wife was busily engaged, not in looking
after the shop, but in flirting violently with the
hairdresser round the corner, the ex-acrobat was
found dead in a little outhouse to his home, his
position, when discovered, leading to the supposition
that he had expired in the effort to throw a
double-hander.

What had induced one of his age to attempt
such a feat remains a mystery, but it was generally
believed that he was incited to the mad attempt
by his wife, who certainly rather favoured
the idea by marrying, a fortnight after her husband's

death, the identical hairdresser, who taught
her how to dye her auburn hocks a lovely gold, and
then amused himself, in the intervals of his visits
to the "Castle," five doors down, by pulling out
the said fair locks in handfuls.

Thus was Jerry senior avenged.

Of the family then there only remains Jerry, our
hero, with whom we have to deal.

Strangely enough, his career has been the least
eventful of all.

When his brothers, one by one, left the show,
he alone stuck to it and the old business, jogging
ahng quite contentedly.

Of his character I leave my reader to judge.

Such was Jerry, my hero. Not much of a one
you may say, but, dear reader, he has but just
begun his part ; if to the end he plays that well
or ill, that is the time to laud or condemn him.
I must own, though, that he did not look much
like a hero, as he stood just within the crimson
curtains of the tent, in the attitude already described,
his painted face expressing so comically
the surprise he felt  his whole bearing  as, no
doubt, was only natural  described in one word,
clownish." It was always said in the company
that Jerry carried the business wherever he went,
not intentionally, of course ; he always declared
that no one tried harder to be a gentleman, and,
as he frankly owned, no one failed more signally
in the attempt. He was a clown to the backbone,
in spite of all he could do, and to tell the truth I
believe he was secretly proud of the fact.

lisette's protector.

The following day it was officially announced by
Mr Petman that Fraiilein Hartzmann had been
added to his list of artistes.

It was also whispered that Madame Petite had
received notice to the effect that her services
would be dispensed with, but whether there was
any truth in this latter statement it was hard to
say. No one was admitted into the secrets of the
great manager, and the persons concerned kept
their affairs to themselves.

Certain, however, it was, that later on, when
the lady in question having recovered from
her indisposition, her recovery was not looked
upon by her devoted friend and admirer with the
kindliness one would hare expected. As Will
Breakneck expressed it, '* It was easy to see that
something was up with the pair," Epsom's manner
was even more sulky and morose than usual,
while the fancy rider appeared also very dull and
dispirited. But to return to our heroine.

On entering the tent prior to the commencement
of the performance, on the day following
that on which she first so luckily was able to
be of use to the mighty Petman, she found
Jerry, whose show came early on the bill, already
there, engaged, as was his custom, in preparing
himself for his performance by practising
a few of his tricks in a corner. On the young
girl's entrance he ceased these and Event to her
side.

She greeted him as frankly as on the day before
and accepted his congratulations on her engagement,
and until the time came for Jerry to follow
Madame Petite into the ring, the two chatted
away as agreeably as though they had known
each other all their lives.

And this was my hero's first introduction to the
girl who, as will be seen, had so great an influence
on his after life.

When this influence first had birth it was difficult
to say, but it certainly did arise, and lasted
for as long as  but how long will be told later on.

As we have seen, by mere chance the acquaintance
was made, an acquaintance which ripened
into an actual friendship ere long.

How it happened, as I have said, Jerry even
himself hardly knew. There was the chance meeting,
when he, as he afterwards owned, had been
fortunate enough to render her assistance, the
lucky accident which had led to her engagement
by the mighty Petman, her frank renewal of the
acquaintance by selecting him for the cavalier of

the moment, followed by a daily meeting during
performance, in which her winning, almost
childlike, simplicity showed itself in contrast to
the not too striking manners of many of those
around her.

Yes, it was almost impossible to say how it
began. Jerry never knew why it was that he got
into the habit of wasting  (he called it so at first)
so much time after his performance ; he used to
lounge about until Miss Hartzmann's turn was
near, solely for the pleasure of wishing that young
lady " good day," to inquire, after a removal from
one town to the other, whether she had managed
to find comfortable lodgings, to add a few remarks
about the " house," and more often than not to
drift into a light chat, in which he would exert
himself to his utmost to be jolly, just for the sake
of seeing the clear brown eyes sparkle and twinkle
with fun, the prettiest little dimples in the world
play round the girl's mouth, which, in her efforts
to be serious, she would draw down in the gravest
manner, until suddenly the dimples got it all their
own way and ran riot to the accompaniment of
the clearest, most silvery laugh that ever charmed
mortal ears, to the exclusion of all, perhaps, wiser
thoughts, for it did charm one of its hearers, until
he grew to love the sight and sound so well that
that  he was never happy unless it were near.

But, as I have said, it was not all at once that
this discovery was made ; it dawned upon Jerry
by degrees, until the real truth of the whole
matter was forced upon him.

It happened in this wise.

You see, as I have said, the little German girl
had taken a great fancy to her rescuer, as she
often called him, and as the months went by, so
friendly did they become, that their relations assumed
somewhat the warmth of brother and
sister.

Not very long after Lisette had joined the
company, Jerry, by a skilful manoeuvre, arranged
that he should, as he styled it, " clown her act,"
meaning by this that he should employ the intervals
between her performance for his tricks.

His reason for so doing at the time was, that
his opinion of the new fancy rider's prowess was
such as, as he said, " to ensure the audience being
in a good temper  a great thing for the success
of his performance."

In time, however, this view of the transaction
ceased to exist, for I am pretty well certain, had
the general favour with which the said performance
was looked upon been entirely withdrawn,
he would have still retained his office.

It was curious to see how completely he took
the young stranger under his wing ; he was, the
men often remarked, a good deal more concerned
about her performance than his own, displaying
the utmost anxiety until it was successfully concluded,
watching the whole night after night, as
though the agility and grace of the fairylike
figure, in its dancing and bounding, never palled
upon him.

He fell into the way of himself escorting her

into the ring, she, apparently, quite content, although
this spoilt for him a good entrance in the
way of a triple somersault, insisted  (an office
which, until he resolutely asserted his right to it,
was the cause of some contention among his companions,
all, save George Epsom, who scowled
and swore under his breath every time this display
of homage was made)  in assisting her onto
her charger, always sure to make the most of
this opportunity to whisper some laughing remark
in her ear, accompanying it by an encouraging
squeeze of the little foot which, encased in
the dainty white satin slipper, was entrusted to
his hand.

Often during his tricks he would manage to
say a word to her now and again, quite content
with her quick answering nod and smile, while
after much awkward manoeuvring to gain the
desired permission, he was allowed to see the
young lady to her lodgings ; first as a great
privilege now and then, but soon it became the
regular thing for the faithful cavalier to await
his mistress's coming outside the artistes' door,,
from whence the queer couple  the daintily
brought-up girl, with her own frail beauty, and
tastes and manners which, but for her self-instituted
protector  now she had lost the one whom
nature had given her  must have found the way
of life rough and hard to travel now she journeyed
alone  and the young clown, whose learning had
been such as he could pick up from his companions,
who could few of them boast of having

been to any better school ; who had struggled
for himself from childhood, although his reputation
as the son of a *' strong " man made him
more kindly treated than would otherwise have
been the case ; who had seen too much of life to
have many fancies left, if ever such a thing
existed in the very matter-of-fact mind of the
young acrobat.

Jerry's life had been a singularly sober-tinted,
not to say dark one, without many gleams of
light in it, and yet not all clouds ; then had come
this young stranger girl, and, on a sudden, there
seemed to come a something into the grey gloom
which altered the whole face of the earth, it
seemed to him.

And this was how he found it out.

It was one very warm day in summer  for it
took many months to ripen into friendship the
singularly brought about acquaintance  the show
was encamped in the little country town of Roy-son,
where business for the past few days had
been most flourishing.

It was Saturday, and the mighty Petman had
spent fully an hour of the morning in swearing at
the hot weather, which had suddenly set in, and
threatened almost entirely to spoil the last show.

In spite, however, of this dismal foreboding on
the part of the manager, at the hour of the performance
the "house" was crowded to overflowing,
not to say, suffocation, and the worthy
magnate was thereby restored to his usual state
of good humour.

It so happened that a few days before, Lisette
Hartzmann had, during her performance, essayed
a new trick which she had been wont to use with
great success when, with her father, a member of
the French Cirque.

In this, on her first attempt, she had, for want
of practice, failed, but determined to regain her
old knack, set herself to gain the required use to
the ''' act."

It was after an unusually long practice that,
issuing from the tent the little German girl met
Jerry, who noticing she looked pale and somewhat
tired, proposed a quiet walk before the
night's show.

To this Lisette consented, and the two had
strolled off in the direction of the country,
leaving the hurry and bustle of the town far
behind.

And here it was that Jerry first learnt what it
was that had crept into his life and made it so
sweet.

DREAMS.

Yes, it was during that quiet country ramble Jerry
learnt what it was that had gradually crept into
his life, and made it somehow so different to what
it had been.

This was how it happened.

On quitting the circus ground, Jerry had inquired,
" Where shall we go to ? "

Anywhere ; I have no mind," replied his
companion, whereupon he had nodded his head
with a sage look on his face and said, " I know
just the place to suit you. You're a bit tired, and
the place I know of is just the one for a rest."

Accordingly he led the way through one or two
narrow lanes and streets to the very outskirts of
the town, and down the broad high road which
leads to the country beyond. How delicious it
was after the noise, hurry, and bustle of the town,
with all its sights and sounds displeasing to eyes
and ears, to roam lazily down the shady lanes.

one's senses cooled and refreshed by the rest and
calm around.

 To no one, perhaps, could this have been more
grateful than Lisette Hartzmann  she who had
been brought up in the midst of like scenes, until
misfortune and trouble had fallen upon a hitherto
happy home, and driven those who loved it out
into the cold bare world to fight the battle of life
for themselves.

It was of this  the change from what was to
what had once been  that the little German girl
spoke, as she and her companion strolled leisurely
along under the welcome shade which some lane
afforded.

It was strange to note how, though as a rule
ohy and reserved to the point of pride with most
of those around her, Lisette was never so with
Jerry. To him she was as open-hearted and frank
as a child to one whom she feels she may love and
trust. She told him all her troubles both in the
past and present  these last, although she did not
know it, were, thanks to his protecting care, not
nearly as many as they might have been had shea
less sturdy, less interested guardian ; confided
to him her hopes and fears, ever meeting with
ready sympathy, for even if in her day dreams her
delicate fancy led her sometimes, as Jerry expressed
it, " a bit beyond him," he always did his
best to follow her out as best he could, while 
the part which pleased Jerry most  she always
openly acknowledged him as her chosen protector,
if not exactly in words, by the simple con-vol.
I. G

siding way in which she claimed that protection,
which you may be sure he was only too ready to
bestow.

To one of the young clown's nature, such an
office is an only too grateful one. He had learnt
in time to look upon it as his right, and one which
no one should dare to question.

And Lisette, too, as I have said, seemed only
too happy with the state of things. It may
appear strange that one who, as I have said, was
naturally so shy and timid, should of herself
establish such relations upon a not so very long
-acquaintance, but the reason for it may have been
this  until the death of her beloved father, in all
lier troubles she had had some one on whom to
lean, some one to guide her, and when deprived
of her wonted protector, it was but natural she
should willingly allow any one so disposed to
occupy the office. This, as we have seen, Jerry
was only too happy to do.

Nor was this all. Their first meeting had, in a
measure, made a bond of sympathy between them
which every little kindly service of the young
fellow's was constantly strengthening. And it
might have been that it was what some of his
' pals " called Jerry's " natural inclination to be
useful," i.e., unselfish would have been the proper
word; but certainly he was always only too
delighted to be useful to pretty little Lisette
Hartzmann, into whose confidence he had stepped
in such a very lucky manner.

Yes, he was lucky, very lucky, was the young



clown's inward comment as he walked along
through the shady lanes. How some fellows
would have envied him his pretty confiding little
companion, with her quaint ways, her still more
quaint broken English, above all, the simple childlike
bearing which always distinguished her
manner to this, her self-chosen protector.

The sight of the glorious country, as I have
said, recalled to the little fancy rider sad yet
sweet memories of the home which had once been
hers. And as she walked, bit by bit she recalled
the past, telling of a happy childhood, early
blighted by a sudden storm, of trials and struggles
bravely borne, till death had ended them for one
poor soul, sick and weary of battling with the
hard cruel world, in which only sorrow and sadness
seemed to be his lot.

But Jerry would not let her dwell upon these
sad thoughts too long. Gently he drew her attention
to other things, strove by every means in his
power to make the gladness of the present make
the sorrow of the past forgotten. And he succeeded.
Under the influence of his cheery manner,
Lisette soon forgot her troubles, and became as
light-hearted and merry as he could have wished.

And in her gay moods, when happiness filled
her heart, no one in all the world, to Jerry's
mind, could have been more winsome, more winning
than this little German girl.

So down the lanes these two strangely assorted
companions passed, Lisette making the echoes
ring with the soit of her silvery laugh at the

young clown's tricks, tales, and jokes, he exerting
himself to the utmost to please her, that his ears
might drink in eagerly the sound which, because
it told of another's happiness of his causing, he
loved to hear.

And every now and then Lisette's quick eye
would discern in the hedges on either side, or in
the fields through which they walked, a blossom
or flower which struck her fancy. Breaking off
in one of her quaintly - worded sentences she
would fly to possess herself of it, each successive
"find" in her eyes more precious, till she had loaded
herself with all sorts of treasures, such as one who
sees little of the delights of the country knows
how to appreciate.

Jerry was indefatigable in his endeavours to
discover for her new wonders  nearly frightened
her out of her wits by presenting her with a tiny
frog, despoiled the hedges for her with a ruthless
hand, goodness knows how many times ran the
danger of being prosecuted for trespass  what
did he care, so long as the results of his venture
procured some fresh treasure for his delighted
companion, for which he would be thanked by a
radiant smile and eager thanks.

As Lisette told him, since he had left the town
behind him he seemed to have taken to him the-habits
of a monkey ; he scrambled over gates and
fences, leaped ditches in a manner which caused
many a cry of fear from Lisette lest he should
come to grief. He conceived the idea of making
a bird's-egg necklace for her, but on discovering

this intention she stoutly declared she would never
wear it.

 " To take the birds' eggs from them is cruel ;
you shall not do it, I tell you. I will go straight
home at once, and never, never speak to you
again  never again."

This threat had the effect of inducing Jerry to
abandon his idea, rather reluctantly it must be
confessed. But he was rewarded for his obedience,
and Lisette for her care for the feathered songsters,
for while rummaging a bank for some sweet
wild roses, what should he find hanging to a briar
but a splendid string of the desired eggs, no doubt
dropped by some less conscientious bird-hester.

This he insisted upon hanging round Lisette's
neck, declaring the fairies must have made it for
her, so she must not risk offending their elfish
majesties by refusing to accept of it. So, of
course, on these conditions, Lisette took possession
of the treasures. And then once when, in
spite of the usual caution concerning trespassers
displayed in large letters just above his head,
Jerry was with right good will robbing  a crime
made necessary by an incautiously-uttered wish of
Lisette's  a corn-field of a handful of golden grain,
an old farmer, with a sour-looking face and a harsh
voice pounced down upon him, caught him in
the very act, and asked him wrathfully what he
meant.

Jerry, with a face of sublime innocence, declared
he was very sorry, but he couldn't read,
it wasn't his fault if his education had been

neglected. The corn was the finest he'd seen in
all England that year, and he couldn't resist
having an ear or two of it  it was a lovely crop,,
etc. So he went on, slyly complimenting and
wheedling, until it ended by the old farmer, instead
of prosecuting the trespasser, inviting him
and his companion into the dairy, where he regaled
them with glasses of rich, creamy milk, and
such snowy bread and golden butter, as Jerry said,
made one hungry to look at.

The old man having proved in such an acceptable
and substantial manner that his bark was
worse than his bite, the two travellers set off on
their way once more.

During their further peregrinations, showing a
lamentable example of how leniency towards vice
is apt to encourage it, Jerry made a second diversion
from the path of rightness  otherwise
that of a corn field  to secure some unusually
brilliant poppies.

While thus unlawfully engaged, he descried
a second sturdy farmer coming in his direction ;
with all speed he sprang up a tree near at hand,
from which elevated position he calmly watched
the outraged proprietor of the field searching about
for any sign of the trespasser, failing to find which
he muttered something about " giving it him if he
did catch him," and retired.

The coast being clear, Jerry returned to terra
firma once more, and boldly presented Lisette with
the coveted flowers.

At length, however, Jerry, very unwillingly it

must be confessed, declared it time to be making
for home, if either of them intended to appear at
that evening's performance,

"Must we to then turn back ; " saidLizette regretfully,
clasping her hands, and looking round her
with eyes which rested lovingly on the peaceful
scene around ; " must we to go back ? "

I am afraid we must," said Jerry ; *' we have
been two hours and a-half getting here, and as
the show begins at seven, and it is now four
o'clock, we have but just time. The guv'nor will
cut up rough if we are late. I can't afford to be
in his bad books."

You would never be in any one's bad books
you know that," said Lisette. " Ah, well ! I suppose
that we must to go, since that you say so ;
but I wish we could go on walking for always."
Are you not tired, then % "
*' Yes, my body is tired, but my heart is so
happy I have not thought of it before."

But you are tired, nevertheless. Then I'll tell
you what we'll do. You see those dog daisies ? "
Lisette looked up the bank, at the foot of which
they stood, uttered a cry of delight at the sight
of the mass of golden-centred flowers, but suppressed
discreetly a wish for some.

Jerry, however, read her thoughts ; he continued,
You see that big stone yonder under the trees.
Now you are to sit down there quietly and rest
while I see if any of those flowers are to be had
for the climbing."

So saying he sprang up the bank, and was soon

iDUsy robbing it of its treasures, delaying as long
as possible, that Lisette might be well rested. At
last, however, he deemed it advisable to make a
start, and prepared to descend the bank. Before
doing so he paused, with his arms full of the daisies,
and looked round him, soiling to himself as he recalled
Lisette's words, " my body is tired but my
heart is happy. I wish we could go on walking
so for ever."

As he did so, an object in the distance moving
towards him, caught his eye.

It was an empty hay cart.

A bright idea," muttered Jerry ; "just the very
thing."

Forthwith he sprang along the bank, and met
the cart just as it was about to turn off in a cross
direction to where they were.

A few words with the man, seconded by a coin,
and Jerry went running along the bank to whereat
the foot of the bank, the flutter of a pale blue
dress told him where Lisette was.

As he ran he called to her, but she made no
answer, and he suddenly ceased calling and stole
gently towards where an old grey milestone had
fallen from its upright position to the road, and
thus made a capital resting-place. So Lisette
seemed to have found it, and as he drew near
Jerry could not but pause a moment to admire the
pretty picture which lay before him.

The girl was sitting on the old grey stone leaning
slightly backwards against the bank, her
hands crossed idly in her lap, upon which lay the

most precious of her treasures, among them bright
poppies, at her feet a huge bunch of many-coloured
field flowers  clever, ragged robin, milk-maid,
and such like,  all showing up in contrast to the
simple pale blue cotton dress she wore, a narrow
frill of lace at throat and wrists, cheap, but clean
and neat; her hat, which in mischief Jerry had
stuck all over with gaudy poppies, lying beside
her ; her bare head resting back against the grassy
bank behind ; the sunbeams glancing through the
trees above flitting noiselessly around her, playing
among the soft brown curls which had fallen back
from the low, clear forehead, and silently, saucily
kissing the pretty face beneath  a face flushed and
bright with happiness  the sweet brown eyes
half hidden beneath the sweeping lashes, soft and
tender with something more than content.

Yes, it was a pretty picture  so Jerry thought
so pretty that, despite a promise that he had
made but a few moments before about not being
long, for fully five minutes he stood before it
Tin willing to wake it to life.

And so he stood and gazed until he forgot it
was a pretty picture  forgot how time passed 
forgot everything save a dim consciousness that
ivhat he saw had raised a strange sensation within
him he had never felt before, a sensation he could
not describe, could not name.

It was but for a few seconds he stood thus.
Then a loud, gruff" " Hullo there ! " broke the spell,
and Jerry woke to the fact that he had been day
dreaming.

Lisette started up too. Her dream of home
was o'er, but she had dreamt it often, very often
before, while Jerry had never in his Hfe even in
sleep realised such thoughts as had filled his-mind
for that brief moment. But there it was
but one moment. The next he was bidding
Lisette gather up her flowers and see the surprise
he had in store for her.

It was only that he had managed to persuade
the waggoner to give them a lift back to town
but Lisette owned it was the best surprise she
could have had just then. She was more tired
than she had cared to own.

But would you believe it, Jerry, most incomprehensible
fellow, tired as he also was with his long
tramp and extra exertion in the way of climbing
and trespassing, more than repented having solicited
the kindness of the waggoner. He owned
to himself he would willingly have trudged twice
the distance to have been able during the journey
to  but there, Jerry did not own to himself what
the real end of that journey was to be, and so I
am not at liberty to pry into his secrets.

Mind you, he did not wish to go alone. Oh, no.
Lisette must go with him, for company's sake of
course. Bat what about the guv'nor's anger then %
A fig for that ! " I think would have been Jerry 's-
reply had any one put the question to him; "there
is something more important on hand than his
temper." He might have said, " my life's happiness,"
but he didn't. So no one so much as-suggested
that the length of the walk should

be doubled, and Jerry was too much dazed to
suggest it himself.

Instead of that, in answer to the waggoners
" Hullo there ! " which so summarily
dispelled his dreams, he led the way to where
the hay cart stood waiting, assisted Lisette to
her seat beside the driver, placed her treasures
at her feet and climbed in behind himself, having
for his seat the broad ledge which ran along the
side of the cart.

And so they started. Curious to state, during
the Thole of the drive home, in spite of his half-formed
inward wish concerning the lengthening
of the walk, Jerry scarcely spoke excepting when
Lisette addressed him. And even then she had
more than once to repeat her question before she
received any answer.

Plainly Jerry had got a thoughtful mood on
him, which was strange after his late gaiety.

He wondered afterwards if Lisette noticed it,.
but concluded that as she had made no remark
she had not done so.

No doubt she was thinking of other things, and
besides, her attention was engaged by the old
waggoner. He had appeared a little taciturn and
surly at first at having been kept waiting, but he
must have a hard heart indeed to have been able
to resist the sunnyness, if I may use the word
which the traveller at his side bestowed upon
him.

Lisette would take no grunts or surly nods;
she asked so many questions in her queer broken

English, looking up so inquiringly into his face
with her sweet brown eyes, that the old man
quite forgot to be disagreeable, and proved himself
both a genial companion as well as a kindhearted
friend. Jerry being in the back of the
cart was thus shut out from the conversation, but
I fear he would not have taken much part in it
if he had not been.

He was thinking deeply, so deeply, that when
the waggoner at length came to a standstill he
did not notice that the journey was at an end
until a peal of laughter in Lisette's silvery tones
roused him.

She was standing looking at him from over the
box seat, and evidently his attitude had struck
her as being somewhat comical. And certainly
he did not present such a pretty picture as Lisette
had done not half-an-hour before.

He was sitting drumming softly with his heels
against the waggon, for as the sides of the cart
were high, and our hero, as I have said, was by
no means tall, his legs dangled, in itself a not too
graceful position, his hands rammed most resolutely
into the depth of his pockets : he wore a
suit of clothes of not too fashionable cut  at least
so they appeared on his rather stout figure  their
colour a shade between brown and grey ; his hat
tilted to the back of his head, and his necktie
twisted to somewhere the region of his right ear,
into which organ it seemed to be vainly endeavouring
to pry.

This last was the most important fact of all, for

it was Unanimously declared by his friends that
the position of this article of the young clown's
wearing apparel was a certain indication of the
condition of the owner's, or rather wearer's mind.
By it one could safely determine whether he was
low spirited : this when the crimson-green, sky-blue,
or yellow bow lay peacefully reposing beneath
his chin  a very rare occurrence ; mildly
cheerful when it struck one as being a little displaced
; if jolly, it made violent efforts to reach
the position already described, but rarely reached
it, for then it was whispered that something very
serious indeed must be up with old Fer. It meant
his excitement was over and he was calm. That
state of calm meant to Jerry some great inward
agitation which was beyond all outward expression.


And as I have said, on the day in question the
symbolising necktie had reached the left ear, and
Jerry was calm. What would have been the result
had the somnambulistic state lasted for any greater
length of time, I tremble to think ; the treacherous
green bow might have got beyond the left crimson
oracle, and then  but no ; that period, that stage
of the disease is too dreadful to be contemplated.

Thank Heaven it was averted. And how ? By
none other than Lisette's burst of silver laughter ;
that sound was the charm to break the spell.

Yes, the end of it all was, Jerry woke to find
himself the object of Lisette's merriment. It might
have been that she herself Alas so far away from
his thoughts that he did not even know what it

was that recalled him to consciousness ; much asa
patient does not at the moment of revival feel
the pain of the medicine which has called him
back to life, does not know how great was the
pain inflicted by the cruel instrument that cut
into his flesh, until the wound itself is healing;
but certain it is that the little German girl's merriment
did not jar upon the listener's ear at the
moment ; if it inflicted a wound, he did not know
it till afterwards.

No ; he certainly saw no sting in the clear tones,
and read no evil intent in the face which, so full
of fun, looked across at him, divided by the pile of
wildflowers at her feet  flowers which were bright
and beautiful, but scarce one of them without a
thorn or some poison hidden beneath their loveliness.


Lisette's words, too  contrasting with a picture
which was then occupying all his thoughts  conveyed
no hidden meaning in their gaiety.

Oh, Jerry, Jerry," she said, if you could but
see how you are yourself"

And then she laughed again, clasping her hands,
her face rippling over with smiles, till the old
waggoner joined in her merriment, saying, in
rather a different tone to that in which he had
answered her first question,

Lor, missy, he's been having a doze."

By this time Jerry had roused himself a bit, and
seeming to catch the infection, laughed heartily
himself too ; not because he had the least idea
how absurd he looked, but because Lisette laughed,

earns. 1 1 1

and somehow when she laughed, even at him  at
least, he thought so then  he could not but be
happy, because she was happy.

At last, however, the striking of a church-clock
in the town  they were only then on the outskirts,
that being as far as the friendly waggoner
was able to oblige them with a lift  recalled the
three merry-makers to a sense of how late it was.

Five o'clock. The old cart-horse had not come
at racing speed over the few miles, and the two
travellers at least had quite another half-hour's
walk before them ; they Avere both of them
hungry, neither having provided for their excursion,
which was purely impromptu, and the farmer's
kindly offered lunch was the only meal they had
eaten since breakfast. Thus tea had to be eaten,
and if possible, a little rest would certainly impart
to the rather tired pair a little necessary freshness
for their exertions in the ring. The sound, therefore,
of the chiming of the clock brought the two
back to sober common sense again.

Jerry jumped off his perch, took his hands from
his pockets, restored his hat with great precision
to its proper position, gave his tie a vicious tug,
which only succeeded in transferring it from the
neighbourhood of one ear to that of the opposite
one, and springing from the waggon, prepared to
assist Lisette to alight.

The old waggoner was, however, before him ;
rather silly of him to attempt to spring a young
girl from such a height, thought Jerry.

You're very considerate about the old man's

health all of a sudden, Jerry. One would have
imagined that little Lisette was somewhat of a
heavy build, instead of the fragile fairy she 
Hullo ! Who said she was a fairy % Compliments
between old friends are forbidden, Mr Jerry.

But to return.

After thanking the waggoner warmly for his
kindness, shaking him heartily by the hand, our
hero and heroine prepared to continue their
journey on foot.

Just, however, as they were starting, with
many hopes from their late charioteer for a meeting
at some distant period, Jerry conceived the
brilliant idea of inviting him to visit the show.

Look here, Joe," he said, slapping him on the
back cheerily ; " what time do you leave work? "

I've soundly got just a load of corn to drive
down to the farm, and then I've done for to-day."

And where do you live % "

Over yonder," pointing with his whip towards
some low white cottages standing a little distance
farther up the high road.

Well, look here ; have you ever seen a circus ? "

*'A circus  is it an animal, sir? I can't say
as I knows it."

No, it's not an animal, Joe ; it's a show with
horses and ladies and gentlemen performing."

Ah ! I knows the kind of thing ; my young
grandson Jack went once, and for nigh a week
after he was clean daft about the grand things
he'd seen ; used to spend all his days riding
Dobbin round and round the yard until the boss

threw him into the pond ; then he gave np those
tricks and used to spend all his time a- tin-owing
himself into all manner of attitudes, as he called
them, looked to me mighty like trying to twist
every limb in his body, while as for standing
on his head, it's my wonder he hasn't died of fits
twenty times over. You'd see him a-sitting as
mute as a raven one minute, and if you looked
away there he'd be upside down, as red as his
best Sunday tie ; you never know'd whether
you'd find him the right way up or not. I told
his mother as how he wouldn't know that himself
if she let him go on. but she wouldn't listen to me
until one morning I found him, upside down, of
course, a-trying to eat his breakfast, just as if,
after all the schooling he's had he oughtn't to
know as how he hadn't only one digestion, and
that won't in his forehead  which it might as
well have been, for he hadn't no brains there 
eating his breakfast on his head, and stuck me
out that if only he could manage to eat a pound
of pickled pork and half-astound of plum pudding-
in that position as how his fortune 'd be made.
Fortune, indeed ! I think it's a shame to let boys
as is only sons of widows into such shows."

You're not the only son of a widow, are you,.
Joe?" asked Jerry, seizing a pause which the
vehemence of his last remark made necessary to
the old man.

Lor', no, sir ; my mother had ten of us, and
she's been dead this twenty years."

*' Then I suppose you'd not take it as an offence
VOL. I. H

if I ask you to come and see our show. You
now King Street ? You come to-night round to
the door of the big tent pitched on the green
opposite the ' White Bear,' and I'll be on the
watch for you and see you get a good seat. Will
you come % "

"Lor' bless you, sir, I'd like it dearly, but  "
and Joe shuffled uneasily from one foot to another,
and plucked at the cord of his whip.

"But what? Out with it, my good man.
What's the trouble?"

But Joe was evidently loath to give the name
to his difficulty.

I know," said Lisette, after a moment ; " you
said, Jerry, ' Joe, you come '  you forgot that Mrs
Joe"

That's just it, missis, only I didn't like to
name it, for fear of offending you. You see, me
and my old missus his been married this four-and-forty
years, and we ain't had so much as a high
word yet, and if I goes to this show without her
maybe she'll think I'm off what Jack calls gallivanting,
and I shouldn't like for that to make the
first unpleasantness."

Right you are, Joe, to speak your mind. I
hope when I'm married my wife and I will be as
happy as you and yours."

As he spoke Jerry stole a cautious glance at
Lisette, why cautious it is difficult to say, as it
was not necessarily so, Lisette being busily
engaged in tying up her cherished bouquet,
guarding with special care the marguerites, suddenly

grew very red in the face, cleared his
throat, gave his necktie an admonitory tug,
thereby checking its growing inclination this
time to the locality of his right ear, and once
more shaking the waggoner by the hand, said
heartily, 

Bring your old woman, by all means, Joe, and
Jack and his mother, too, if you like, and we'll
show her we can do something better than stand
on our heads."

With this parting injunction the trio parted
company, Joe to drop in at his queer little cottage
home and throw that homestead into a perfect
fever of excitement by the announcement that he
was that evening going to conduct the whole
family to that scene of delights of which Jack
still retained dear and cherished memories. Oh,
to see the hurry and bustle consequent upon the
receipt of grandad's news. Grandma, just in the
middle of a six weeks' wash, literally up to her
elbows in suds  an imposing ceremony which she
always maintained nothing short of an earthquake
should prevent her from completing when once
commenced  actually turned down her sleeves on
the spot and desired her handmaid to rake out
the copper fire, this occasion being in her eyes,
no doubt, a greater one than even an earthquake
itself, declared she would not rub, nay, so much
as wring a single towel more, and devoted the
next hour and a half to laying out with reverent
hands her own and good man's best Sunday-going
clothes. The widow wiped away a tear in

honour of the occasion, this being the first time
since her husband had departed this life that she
had indulged in any amusement, and Jack, overcome
with joy that his dream of a second visit to
the alluring delights of the wonderful circus was
to be realised, stood on his head for fully five
minutes, much to the alarm of his relatives, who
implored him in tears to, as his grandfather expressed
it  keep the right way up  which he was
at length prevailed to do by a threat of being left
at home from the show.

Jerry meanwhile hurried Lisette through the
streets back into the town, and saw her safely to
the door of her lodgings.

Here he lingered on the steps, charging her to
have a good tea and try to get a good rest afterwards.


I mustn't have you looking pale and tired tonight,
or the boss will blame me for spoiling his
pet artiste."

The little figure on the steps above him was
certainly somewhat travel-stained and dusty, but
the face which looked down at him from over the
screen of wild flowers was bright and happy.

'* I will look my best to please you to-night,,
for you have been so kind to care for me so much.
It has been a happy day for me."

So kind to care for me. Made me happy."
Why at those few simple words of thanks did
the young clown's face flush suddenly, a sudden
light, bright, yet soft and tender, gleam in 
eyes which transformed his face and

made its plainness forgotten ? Why did his hand
close over the little white fingers within his clasp
with such sudden fervour?

Why did his lips tremble as they framed a short
sentence? Why should those words be stayed?
Why ? Ah, why ? The apparent reason was the
appearance of two prying eyes on the other side
of the street. It was the ring-master ; he raised
his hat, bowed stiffly, and passed on, but e'er he
had removed his gaze, Lisette had withdrawn her
hand from the one that held it, nodded a gay
good-bye for now, and Jerry was left alone standing
on the steps.

REALITY.

It was a little later on in the same day as of that
eventful excursion among the country lanes, and
once more we are back in the busy town again
with all its hurry and bustle, once more among
the tents and such-like properties of the mighty
show of the mightier Petman. The evening show
is going on, as is evinced by the sound of gay
music which comes from the huge ring tent, as it
is called, interrupted now and again  and this
not unfrequently, for the " house " is a capital one,
both from a financial and appreciative point of
view  by loud and prolonged bursts of applause.

Half the programme was already over, and it
was the interval, as was evinced by the hum of
many voices which now rises instead of the music,
while from out the tent a stream of thirsty souls
flows rapidly in the direction of the " White
Bear," where half-pints and two pennyworth
are drained in feverish haste lest the thirsty one
should not return in time to fight for his seat
before the remainder of the performance commences.

Meanwhile, it is with the performers
not the audience, that we have to do. The anteroom
is at first deserted, save for two of the
grooms who are laughing and talking in one
corner. And having once more introduced my
reader behind the scenes, as it were, I am reminded
that in detailing how affairs had progressed
with my heroine in her private life, I have
given no account of how she prospered in her
professional capacity. There is not much to tell,
saving that she did prosper.

Her act was always favourably, nay, generally,
more than well received, more than once declared
to be the most dainty performance of the whole
troupe ; for somehow there was an air of quiet
gentility about the childish figure in its simple
modest dresses which struck one forcibly after
the not too refined appearance and performances
of most of the rest of the company. This-especially
in contrast to Madame Fourteenstone
and her clumsy attempts at leaps and such-like
performances, for which she had certainly neither
the figure nor agility for such.

It was a marvel in the company that Madame F.'&
services, as they were contemptuously called, were
retained, until one of the grooms having become
disabled for a week, owing to the lady in question
alighting from her steed in what was meant to
be a flying jump, having landed on his toe, Jerry
quietly suggested that no doubt her presence
was intended to give weight to the performance,,
which assertion no one ventured to cry down.

Madame declared herself to have a supreme
contempt for the " child," meaning Lisette,
that were entering the company, but though,
had she had an opportunity, she might, as Jerry
said, have showed her teeth, that gentleman saw
that she did not bite, and Lisette scarcely knew
of her rival's hatred. For the rest, most of the
company treated the little German girl civilly
enough. Jerry's protectorship ensured her this,
added to which, when not too nervous to be too
shy and reserved, her companions found the little
fancy rider to be both pleasant and genial.

There was a quiet simplicity and earnestness
about her which unconsciously quenched all little
jealousies which might have arisen, and won her
her way, if not into all hearts, at least all the good
graces, if some of them possessed any at all, of
those around her. Yes, she was acknowledged to
be a gracious little lady (even in the name there
was a tinge of respect which argued well for the
owner's standing) by her fellow workers save one.
That one, of course, George Epsom.

The jockey never forgave Lisette the fright
lier first appearance had given him, lest it should
bring about the dismissal of his devoted slave and
admirer, even when his fears proved to be groundless.


It might have been that he had within him the
remembrance of having planned a cowardly, mean
trick, which had completely failed, and which, if
she had been quick enough to discover it, would
not raise him in her eyes.

Like Madame Fourteenstone be dared not show
"his spite, but he reserved it for some future
period. His feeling was in no way enhanced by
the remembrance that Lisette had been a witness
of his brutal conduct towards the unlucky Smith,
;Some version of which having reached the ring-master's
ears, he had coolly informed the coward
that if he behaved so a second time, nothing
should prevent the whole affair being laid before
the manager, who, much as he might dislike to
dismiss so valuable an artist, would be forced, for
common justice' sake, to take some means of preventing
his indulging any further in giving vent
to his rage upon those around him. Added to
this, Lisette unconsciously widened the breach by,
in so much as it lay in her power, befriending the
same unlucky groom.

Her woman's heart had been first horrified at
the way he had been treated, then touched by the
sight of the ugly wound which for weeks disfigured
his face, a feeling which soon ripened into soft
pity at the many hard knocks which fell to his
share. It Alas only by little ways that she could
show her sympathy, but, dull as the wretched
groom Alas ordinarily, he was not slow to interpret
the timid, half-shy greetings, which were
never forgotten, to him, no matter how many
above him claimed the young artiste's attention
the few kindly words in passing  a gay nod 
an appeal to him for some little service instead of
to others, who might perhaps have filled the office
far better, but which he rendered to the best of

his power only too eagerly, nay gratefully  and
such like little acts of unspoken sympathy from a
kind, gentle heart. Strangely enough, though asa
rule tutored in her likes and dislikes by her
strange lover  little else, in fact, than a reflection
of his feelings  Madame Petite, though openly
obliged to affect at least indifference, was in private
by no means hostile to her rival.

The little woman was, after all, weak but not
vicious ; and it might have been that, as she said
the sight of little Lisette's bright face and childish
figure recalled to her remembrances of what she
had once been  that these remembrances warmed
some empty corner of her old heart into at least
a friendly feeling towards the little German
girl.

It was Jerry's private opinion that, in spite of
age and the ravages of time, which might have
made her inclined to be spiteful to others more
fortunate than herself, there was still in the old
woman an instinctive love of what was beautiful
that is, of what was young, fresh, and fair.

Be this as it may, from some cause Madame
early chose an opportunity of privately evincing
her real feelings to Lisette  who "was at first a
little shy at responding  but after a time gratefully
accepted the little services which were so-fearfully
yet eagerly tendered.

I may mention that on the day on which 1
write, while Lisette was carrying out Jerry's
injunction to have a good tea, she received a visit
from the little French lady, who had stolen out

anbeknoAvn to her jailor lover, who would certainly
have prevented her going had he known her
errand, to impart to her little friend the great
news of a rumour which had reached her early
to the effect that a certain manager of a certain
circus  mightier even than the mighty Petman 
had announced his intention of visiting the show
that evening. Now, it was also secretly whispered
that this mighty manager was about to start a
show in London, which was to outshine even that
with which they had to do  that for the purpose
of engaging the most competent artists he was
travelling from show to show  if any artist struck
his fancy bargaining for him or her with the
artist himself  not much haggling on this side
you may be sure, for the chance of a London
engagement was too great an opportunity to be
passed lightly over, even though it might entail
harder work, and in many cases half of an already
poor salary  as some never-despairing artist remarked,
the glory of being able to write after
one's name the proud announcement, " Mr So-and-so,
of the Royal Spangle and Glitter Theatre
London," compensated for all the rest.

So Madame Petite seemed to think, for it was
with the greatest excitement she imparted the
said news of the coming of the manager who was
to open for some lucky individual in the company
the golden prospect  the long-dreamt-of London
engagement.

*'l thought that you might like to know, so
that you could make the best of the opportunity.

It is lucky ; did you not tell me you would try
some new feat to-night? "

Yes, I did so intend," said Lisette, " but I have
decided to wait till tomorrow."

"Why for, you silly child? It is the very
tiling. If you are successful, think, the Monsieur
may engage you for Londres''

But I have no great wish for to get there,"
said Lisette, calmly arranging her flowers in a
soup plate she had wheedled from the landlady
for the purpose. " I am happy here with them
all. Why should I want to go? "

But who knows, enfant, what salary he may
not give you? "

"I have enough now, and sometimes I squeeze
something to keep for a day when it rains," was
Lisette's reply. "Besides, what would a few
shillings more be to me if I had no friends to be
happy with as I am now ? "

Mon enfant ! comme tu es drove. Tu paries
sortie la petite bee que tu es. I say to you, you
are silly. // faut que vous  that you take this
chance ; you shall do the new feat, and look your
very best to-night. Care you to do it ? "

"For the first, yes, if you say I must, but I
see not the why for it ; for the second I cannot
answer, I will wear my best robe  mauve."

The little Avoman shrugged her shoulders.

It is pretty and ems becoming, but it is not
fresh ! You have none other. It is a pity, you
will lose the chance."

In spite of Lisette's assurance that the old one

would do very well, this obstacle, the want of a
suitable dress, was bemoaned by Madame for fully
ten minutes. At the end of that time she became
endued with a sudden bright idea, with which she
was so enchanted that she forgot it was her supposed
rival for whom she was exerting herself,
and set out with right good will to help her in
every way to make the most of her " chance."

The working out of her idea, however, required
some time, and thus, when a little before the
interval was over, Jerry appeared in the anteroom,
himself a little late, just because he wished
to be, if anything, the reverse, he was surprised
and I verily believe not a little disappointed to
find Lisette was not as usual already there.

He had a half-formed wish that he should have
had an opportunity to say a word to her before
the performance commenced. What the few
words were to be he was not quite certain. I
suppose it was some direction relating to her new
*feat."

The second part of the programme began as
usual with the Japanese children, who, punctual
to the soit of the first call bell, were severally
dragged and pushed on by their respective
parents. Lisette's act, crowned by Jerry, came
second on the list.

The second bell rang, the band struck up, the
London manager, after submitting to be treated
by Mr Petman in that worthy's private apartment,
returned to his seat among the audience, and the
performance commenced.

Still Lisette did not make her appearance,
much to Jerry's uneasiness. He marched up and
down the tent with the huge frill which he wore
round his neck sticking up viciously on each side,
and casting every moment anxious glances at the
door of the tent.

The Japanese children had well-nigh finished,
and by that time Jerry was roused to such a pitch
of excitement that it was with difficulty he was
prevented from rushing, dressed as he was, to her
lodgings to ascertain the cause of her non-appearance,
while in one corner Epsom secretly rejoiced
at the prospect of some trouble in store for the
young fancy rider, wishing that Madame Petite
had been there to share his joy  not knowing
how she was at that moment engaged. But he
was the only one who entertained such feelings ;
the rest of the company shared Jerry's excitement,
showing it in various ways.

Will Breakneck had dressed early in order to
put a new rope to one of the supports of his bar,
but declared he'd rather let the blessed thing
alone and break his neck  namely, by taking
Lisette's turn  than that she should get into
trouble for keeping the ring waiting.

Signor Patchouli, one of whose trained horses,
by-the-bye, had been allotted to the new-comer,
instead of the not too good-tempered Emperor,
declared he'd rather some one should lame one
of his thoroughbreds than that Bella Signorina
should miss her opportunity that night, while
poor Smith, the groom, in his excitement, gave

the said trained steed such a rubbing down that
it is a wonder the poor animal had any coat left
:at all.

Two messages had already been sent to the
dressing-room, and received the same answer 
Fraulein Hartzmann was coming in one moment ;
but the moment had come when she ought to
have made her appearance in the ring, and she
had not arrived. The ring-master appeared in
the ante-room and learnt the news.

"You had better go on then," he said to the
Breaknecks. " Miss Hartzmann should be to
time."

It's all right, she's coming," said Smith, rushing
in from a self-imposed visit to make further
inquiries.

All right," said Jerry ; " I'll have my show
first, but send her on quick," and, without waiting
to be gainsaid, he gave the signal for the
band, and one  two  three doubles and he was
in the ring up to his tricks and jokes, making the
house echo with the laughter his fun provoked.

He had only, however, indulged them a few
moments when the band struck up, the trained
steed, all the better for the energy Smith had
devoted to it, was led into the ring, followed by
the signer, who had early claimed the privilege
of whipping for the neatest and prettiest rider in
the show. The next moment the curtains were
drawn aside, and, conducted by the young ring-master,
the truant rider skipped gracefully into
the ring.

One glimpse at her explained the delay.

Under the skilful hands of the good-natured
little Frenchwoman, the little fancy rider made
her appearance before the mighty London manager
in just the prettiest costume one could ever
imagine.

It fairly took Jerry's breath away. And yet
there was not so much in it after all, only snowy
skirts of purest white, a dainty white satin body
with soft white lace, and over it all in long
wreaths, placed with skilful hands, garlands of
scarlet poppies, a few skilfully arranged in the
pretty brown curls. But there was something so
fresh and fair about the whole that no wonder it
pleased the eye so well.

How Jerry wished he had been able to have
been the one to have led her on into the ring. As
it was, only a bright nod fell to his share, and
Lisette began her performance.

This, as usual, was a decided success, the new
feat exciting roars of applause, even the London
manager nodded approvingly, while a certain old
man, Who, in a well-preserved suit of black, with
two ladies in unmistakably Sunday " gets-ups""
as Jerry called them, and a small and very precocious
boy of about nine years old, occupied a
conspicuous position in the front of the reserved
seats, was so overcome by the grace and agility
of the little rider that, in the midst of a breathless
silence, he gave vent to his feelings by a hearty
Lor' bless her, who'd have thought she could do
that % "

This frankly-uttered opinion caused a general
laugh, in which Lisette herself joined, and recognising
the obliging waggoner of the afternoon
nodded gaily to him ; indeed, would have kissed
her hand, but was deterred from so doing by the
remembrance that there hadn't been a wry word
yet, and Joe's missus might look upon the act as
Joe's gahivanting.

Joe's missus, however, was too much taken up
in calling her good man to order to notice much
else.

Where's your manners, Joe Andrews ? " she
said reprovingly ; " you'll have the young gentleman
as gave us these seats a-wishing he'd let you
stay outside, and 1 wouldn't have missed seeing
his tricks for my best pebble brooch, as has been
in the family for nigh forty years. He'll be put
out for certain."

But the good lady's mind was soon set easy on
that score, for would you believe it, while lisette,
in answer to loud applause, was repeating
one of her tricks, Jerry slyly made his way out
of the ring, and when his turn came for more
tricks, there he was sitting calmly chatting away
to the old waggoner and his family.

Then what fun it was. When the ring-master
sternly called upon him to come and go through
his performance, he announced that the young
gentleman, namely Joe's grandson, would take his
place ; how the old couple laughed at the boy's-discomfiture,
loudly calling him to go and distinguish
himself, till, having shaken hands with
VOL. I. I

all of them, Jerry sprang back into the ring, and
went about his mad tricks again.

I may here note that the young clown's affability
made such an impression upon Joe's missus
that Joe was heard to declare in secret that he
hoped she won't going to be struck with him
like Jack, a contingency which fortunately did
not occur.

But to come back to our heroine. Her performance
over, Jerry had the honour of leading
her into the green-room tent, where, however,
she was so freely complimented and congratulated
on all sides that Jerry could scarcely get a
word with her.

"Never mind," bethought, " we shall go home
together."

But that night, the first for many, he did not
do so.

In spite of the approving nod at Lisette's performance,
Lisette was not summoned to the London
manager's presence. Though, of course, not
wishing to stand in the way of her advancement,
etc., Mr Petman very unselfishly placed such obstacles
in the way of his losing his best fancy
rider that, beyond the nod already mentioned, she
got no further recognition of her performance.

No, the only one chosen for a London engagement
was none other than our friend Jerry.

The manager sent for him just as he was about
to see Lisette as usual safely to her lodgings  a
task which, very reluctantly it must be confessed,
he was compelled to resign to the sign or  and

would you believe it, when the offer of the
advancement was made him he actually hesitated
; and even after he had agreed to accept
it  he was told to be ready to start early the
following morning for the capital  instead of congratulating
himself on his luck, he regretted that
he had not made an opportunity that same evening
to say those few words to Lisette.

Never mind, he would pay her a visit early in
the morning and make this important communication.


But when the morning came and he paid the
promised visit, he found Madame had dropped into
breakfast with Lisette, and the fact of her
presence, I suppose, drove the intended words
from our hero's head, for he said his adieux and
started by the express without having given them
utterance.

If he had only known the mischief of delays.
But there, he thought perhaps it would be better
to wait till he returned. So he waited.

COMPATRIOTS.

And so Jerry waited  true, it wasn't very long he
had to do so  but some one says, " delays are
dangerous." and the wisdom of this saying our
hero had to learn to his cost.

The London engagement came to an abrupt
end, like most only too delightful dreams. The
awakening from the delusion was in this case as
pleasant as it usually is. The young clown's
return to consciousness, so to speak, in company
with the rest of those who had accepted with
avidity the offer of the promotion to a grand city
show, from their not too great elevation, was to
find that once again they are to see their hopes
dashed to the ground, they once more the victims
of a snare and deception ; in plain words, the
grand London show, as the company expressed it,
went to " smash," the manager disappeared, taking
with him all the bright visions of the future he
had held out to all engaged in the glorious scheme
and, what was more to the point, all the available,

not to say stray, cash, which naturally rendered
the immediate winding up of the affair  a
course which, with his last good-bye, he, the
missing manager, heartily recommended to the
next in command  a matter of no very great
duration.

Cut no doubt to the heart by the knowledge of
how his trust and hope in mankind had been
betrayed, the retired green grocer, who, with a
laudable desire to be connected with the great
and glorious profession, had been induced to invest
all his little savings in the concern, for the proud
privilege of seeing his name on the bill as assistant
manager, certainly set about winding up affairs ina
very business-like manner, and one which was
at least conclusive if hardly courteous.

After the twenty-eighth performance, when to
fill the house the whole of the green grocer's family
had had to be installed in the one row of reserved
seats, with instructions to spread out as much as
possible  a direction scarcely necessary in the case
of the spouse of the worthy assistant manager,
who being naturally inclined to be somewhat
embonpoint usually found one chair insufficient to
support her somewhat massive figure. (I may say
that this worthy lady had only one eye, but even
with that she did not look favourably upon this
dazzling circus scheme ; she could, she always
declared, see twice as well with her *' one fixed
and one revolver," as her youngest hopeless called
her two orbs  namely, the one provided by nature
and the other bestowed by art  as her husband

could with his own two watery blue ones), it
was, I say, after the twenty-eighth performance
of the grand show that the assistant manager,
somewhat less dignified in manner and more thick
in utterance than was his wont, assembled in the
manager's private room all the members of hi
company, and somewhat curtly and abruptly informed
them, in not too polite, but at the same
time very expressive language, that " the blooming
shoot was a sell ; it wasn't no use trying to disguise
the fact  the whole affair was a sell, and
the sooner everybody cut the better it'd be for
'em."

The company, however, did not seem inclined
to take the hint ; certain unmistakable signs, expressive
of disapprobation and indignation, began
to make themselves apparent, while above the
tumult one word rose in tones in which it was
curious to mark the various degrees of despondency,
surprise (this only once, from a young
gentleman whom nature had endowed with double
joints, and who had but the week before been
endued with the idea of making his deformities a
matins of improving his position in life), don't care,
good-natured hopelessness and anger, both contemptuous,
and the more violent sort, which inclines
the wrathful one to give vent to his feelings
by "having it out" with some one, innocent (jr
guilty, it matters not, so sweet is revenge to the
feelings of an outraged performer, who, after
risking his precious neck regularly every evening,
for a stated period, for the noble object of affording

his fellow-creatures pleasure, finds all his self-sacrifice
has been in vain, his services are to be
rewarded by no more substantial tribute than the
echoes of the past applause, which, as one of the
outraged ones sagely remarked, weren't likely to
be the means of producing bread and cheese and
such like commodities necessary for the mortal
subsistence  this one word was "screw," which,
being interpreted into the language of ordinary
beings, means salary  wages.

The assistant manager listened to the gradually
increasing hubbub with a stolid countenance
** Salary," he said, looking round him with a
glance in which the utmost pity and contempt
were strangely mingled. " Screw ! It's no use
you fighting over the word, you'll only damage
each other's wardrobes, and aimless you've got
something in your eye, you ain't likely just
now to be in a position to replenish it. Screw ! "
and oh, the bitterness, not to be equalled by the
sourest of Seville or St Michaels, that the 
threw into that word. " Screw !
Take my advice. Them as have had a halfpenny
of the guv'nor's money, 'd better keep it
as a curiosity ; they won't have any more specimens
to add to the collection, and them as ain't
seen it 'd best comfort themselves with the flint
that they never will. As I said afore, if any of
you have anything in your eye  "

Here the orator was deterred from proceeding
any farther with his speech by having the contents
of a pewter pot ejected into his orbs ; no

doubt that those whom he addressed might be
assured he practised what he preached. This
was the signal for a general stampede, and it
might have fared but ill with the ex-greengrocer
had he not further shown that he spoke as he
would act  namely, he " cut it," and that pretty
speedily, from the presence of his outraged company.


But he was not to escape so easily. For his
little effort to make himself, a name  (his wife
called him a great many, but none of them particularly
famous, although well-known ones, rather
too common, not to say vulgar, to be actually
celebrated)  his worthy spouse, convinced most
decidedly of her ability to see more with one orb
than he with his two, impressed the fact upon
him in such an effective manner  namely, by
transforming his watery blue " seers " into two
of the most beautiful ones, such as were boasted
by the far-famed Susan of romance and drama ;
disfigured by which he reopened his establishment
in old Well Street, where he lived and died
a broken-down dealer, among his oranges, potatoes,
and such like entertainments to the grocery trade.

But to return to the company.

After in various ways expressing their opinion
upon their late manager's conduct, the wrathful
fraternity separated, sadder but wiser men.

Among these our friend Jerry, though he said
very little, you may be sure he felt the more. He
had been rather calculating upon this little bit of
extra good luck, so he looked upon the London

engagement, as considerably augmenting his little
stock of savings, about which he had been rather
thoughtful of late, and was scarcely prepared
io see his hopes thus summarily dashed to the
ground, to say nothing of his being considerably
out of pocket as regards lodging and keep, not
too inexpensive in the big city, a new rig out for
the occasion, and the railway fee, which was to
have been refunded, but of course was not done so.

Well," was our hero's sage reflection after
mentally reviewing the case for some time, and
pronouncing it a bad one  " it's no use crying over
spilt milk, as the pater had it ; it only makes it
all the more watery. So the best thing you can
do is not to waste any more time,* there's enough
gone already ; pack up and be off on the old
track, and see whether the guv'nor can give you
.anything. If he's filled up your place, as the engagement
was for three months, it's as well it's
got no farther, ' poor little orphan,' as I used to
say in the old riddle of the cow that stuck in the
middle of the turnip field. You must go into
private life for a bit and do it on the rigid
economy system. It's a pity it happened just
now ; fifty pound ain't much to begin  housekeeping
on, but  " Jerry's reflections got like
the cow  no farther. He found himself blushing
furiously, pulled himself up short with the admonition
not to talk nonsense, which he certainly
seemed inclined to do. What was he thinking
about going into housekeeping for, I wonder?

And why, when he did so, did he smile so

queerly to himself and say softly,  " I too must
keep something for a day when it rains'? " speaking
with a half-broken accent, as though he were
imitating some one, who, as the quaint adaptation
of the idiom indicated, was not too familiar with
our language. But to return. Jerry had admonished
himself to set to work at once and pack
up  a process which as a rule did not take him
very long, but on the occasion in question took
him even less time than usual. Truth to tell, no
sooner did he repair to his by no means too comfortable
lodgings  he might have afforded better
had it not been for his suddenly-formed determination
to study economy  and begin the operation
 than an infuriated ogress in the form  I
cannot even, with all due reverence for the sex
say sublime form  of his landlady stood before
him, demanding in fully emphasized language the
rent owing to her.

In vain he repudiated her accusation that he-was
scoundrel and thief enough to try and defraud
of her rightful due, namely, the small amount he
was in her debt, a poor lone widow with a large
family  he wondered why it is all landladies are
lone widows, but a little experience of their company
and manners caused him to wonder no
longer ; she would not listen to reason in the
shape of a solemnly-worded promise to the effect
that he would Within a week discharge his obligation,
leaving her his address when at home as a
guarantee for his honesty.

The infuriated lady demanded that he should

leave a more substantial proof of his integrity, in
the shape of his luggage, which, in plain words,
was stopped. By dint of great manoeuvring he
managed to secrete his new suit about his person,
leaving his only other worldly properties as
arranged behind him.

Somewhat depressed by this incident, Jerry,
after a little calculation, ascertained the whereabouts
of the Petman show, started to overtake
it, vowing in his inmost heart evermore to resist
the attractions of the London engagement.

Neb.  He laid a particular stress upon the London,
as though any other engagement was not to
be mentioned in the same breath. The reader may
naturally suppose he was calculating upon Mr
Petman's not having supplied his place. If such
was the case, his hopes were not this time doomed
to disappointment. He overtook the show at
Grimston, one of the best stopping places, made
his way at once to the manager's presence, and
found him, for a wonder, in a remarkably good
temper, a blissful state of affairs, due to a more
than usually prosperous run of business. The
visit to the big market town had, in fact, proved
most successful, and the day of which I write
being Saturday, the worthy manager expected to
add considerably to his already abundant harvest.

He therefore had prepared a specially alluring
programme, in which the names of his stars Avere
emblazoned forth in more than ordinary magnitude
with which to take by storm the mighty multitude
which flocked to partake of the delights he offered.

It was, therefore, in a very complacent mood
that he received, nay, welcomed, his ci-devant
clown, and instantly accepted his proffered services
; declaring in a most unprecedented burst of
happiness that, if there had been one thing wanting
to fill the cup of his pleasure, it was the presence
at that night's show of the world-renowned
king of comicality, Jerry.

Our hero took this somewhat loudly and unexpectedly
expressed appreciation of his talents for
as much as it was worth, reminding himself that
there's no smoke without fire, but remarking at the
same time that if the Worthy manager's cup was
full, his glass or tankard had certainly been so too,
irn)re than once that day, and had not remained so
only for a very short period. In spite, however,
of this knowledge, as some one says, the human
heart, however hard, is never entirely impregnable
to flattery, however the recipient may disclaim
to the contrary, and, feeling particularly
jovial, and, in fact, in capital trim for his work,
Jerry, having resisted an impulse which bade
him hunt up a few of his old pals, determined
to keep his arrival a secret, as a surprise, he
nearly said to himself, then laughed at his own
absurdity and went on laughing, though what at
it would be hard to say, he scarcely knew himself,
till he had a big tea to set him up for the coming
work. I believe he Alas half surprised to find he
had such a good appetite, then laughed at his
own folly, and ordered a fourth red herring, which
be ate with as great avidity as he had its three

predecessors, and actually, worst sign of all,
laughed at one of his own jokes  namely his own
appearance in the little cracked looking-glass
Which did duty for a mirror in the dressing tent.
The sight, even of his own grinning " phiz," as he
called it, had not the effect of sobering him ; on
the contrary, so pleased was he with what he saw
in some thought which entered his mind at that
moment, that he flung his hat into the air, turned
a somersault, coming the right way up, as h&
expressed it, in time to receive upon his head its-proper,
or rather regulation gear, a trick he had
often attempted but, till now, never succeeded in
successfully accomplishing. Indeed, so surprised
and delighted was he at his cleverness, that he
found himself bestowing upon the feat a little well-merited
applause. This act of self-congratulation
was brought to an abrupt conclusion by a fear lest
he (Jerry) should be late for his duties  a fear
which (me glance at his watch might have told
him was groundless  but I am not so sure he said-duties,
it is merely a supposition, which after all
may have been wrong. Yet what else could lie
mean % What else could he be too late for %

If my reader should like to argue the question
out, let him pause for a moment and do so. Jerry,.
I may say, did not. He did not even wait to
assure himself that his collar was properly in its
place ; he had only a little before liberated his
necktie from its very near vicinity of his right
ear, that article of wearing apparel not being
included in his costume for that evening  the

magnificent, and at the same time ludicrous
arrangement he had purchased in order to shine
in the London show  one composed of every
colour in the rainbow, which had a most singular
appearance during a triple somersault, dien the
owner seemed to have suddenly become washed
out, until he once more resumed his usual state
of inactivity, or rather want of motion for the
moment.

With great haste, considering the time he had
to spare, our hero made his way into the anteroom,
as usual, erected off the ring, where he was
greeted by the grooms and such few of the performers
as were waiting their turns, with unconcealed
pleasure.

It was easy to see by the hearty reception
accorded him that if they did consider him a bit
queer in his notions, our hero was, notwithstanding,
a general favourite among his companions.

He was soon the centre of a rather excited
group, all eager to tell of their own good fortune,
and even more so to express their sympathy with

the young clown on the '* sell he had been

let in for," as Will Breakneck not too elegantly
put it, and to loudly declare that if ever they met
again with the manager at fault, they would
avenge, in a manner which he was not likely to
forget, the insult to their fellows.

But in spite of this warm extension of brotherly
Lands in friendship, Jerry was just a little preoccupied,
and every now and then cast somewhat
anxious glances at the entrance to the tent, as

though expecting some oue who did not put in
an appearance.

The first part of the programme came to an
end, the interval over, and the Breaknecks opened
the second part.

Jerry grew more and more anxious, and at last,
when the curtains parted to admit a slight figure
enveloped in a long dark cloak, he fairly tore himself
away from his companions to meet it.

Lisette, for my reader guesses at once it was
she, was busily arranging some flowers in her
hair as she entered, and not noticing who it was
who went towards her so eagerly with outstretched
hand, stood aside to let him pass as it
were out at the entrance.

Good evening. Miss Hartzmann," said Jerry,
in a singularly gruff voice even for him. He knew
not why, but his heart was thumping so violently
under its many-coloured vest that he wondered
he could get the words out at all. " How are
you ? " I do not think this was quite the greeting
our hero had intended to give her, but somehow
everything else but the very ordinary salutation
had fled from his mind.

'' How are you % " Had he himself answered
the question he would have said *' sweeter, prettier,
more dear, little Lisette, than ever," but as
it was he waited for her to speak, looking into
her face as eagerly as though he saw it now for
the first time, or as though he was bent on comparing
this the original with the stolen copy he
had so unconsciously graven on his heart.

At his words the little German girl fell back a.
step or two, dropping her hands from her head,,
and uttering a quaint little cry of surprise.

Then she stepped forward again, holding out
her two hands, while her face grew bright with a
glad look of recognition.

Why, if I never  and it is Jerry, my friend?"
Is it you ? Back again so soon. Why, I did not
look for you for nearly Christmas."

Jerry's face clouded a little, then a ray of
comfort flashed across his mind. " Even," he
said to himself, " even if she says she does not
expect you, that is not to say she is not glad to
see you."

A little bit of reflection which plainly showed
that Mr Petman's few and unstudied words of
praise had had their effect in increasing our hero's
good opinion of himself

So far, however, as his reflection went, he did
not seem to have overrated his value in a certain
lady's eyes. She was evidently pleased to see
him  unfeignedly pleased, for although I always
maintain that every woman has a spice of the
actress about her, little Lisette might in this case
have formed an exception to the general rule.

Why," she said, as Jerry shook both her hands
very fervently, but at the same time rather awkwardly,
in his own big ones ; so big that they
seemed to almost swallow them up, but his earnest
grasp must have done serious damage to the
little Angers which were left bare by the pretty
if plain mittens, before little Lisette would have

owned it hurt her. "Why," she said, "it was
you ; it is you, and I did not know it. It was
silly for me, I mean of me, it is so difficult to
remember " (Lisette alluded to the proper placing
of English prepositions, not to her inability to
bear her friends in mind). " It was silly of me, but
you see it is the new dress, also besides I was not
looking to you  so no cause I should not know
you, is it?"

Jerry, with an earnestness hardly befitting so
trivial an acknowledgment, vowed that none could
see what they were not looking at, and forthwith
became singularly silent for him. Truth to tell,,
he had suddenly and most unexpectedly grown
very bashful about a little matter which for the
last half hour he had been turning over in his
mind  in relation to a certain bunch of violets
he had purchased on his way to the show, and
which he now held with great care and secrecy,,
concealed in the pocket of his trousers, which,,
after the fashion of their kind, were, to say the
least of it, voluminous. These said violets he
had pictured fastened in the front of a certain
dainty white satin bodice (why he had decided
in his own mind that that was the costume likely
to be worn that evening it is hard to say) ; but
now when he saw that a pretty scarlet costume,.
fairly dazzling to the eye in colour, and dainty
and pretty enough in fashion to betray Madame
Petite's skilful handiwork, had been donned in
preference to the one he certainly admired the
more, he suddenly became uncertain in his mind
VOL. I. K

as to whether his gift might after all be acceptable.


After much shuffling, during which he did his
best to listen to and answer coherently the questions
put to him by the little scarlet satin-robed
artiste, our hero however, as he inwardly expressed
it, managed to screw up his courage to
the sticking point, and present his humble little
offering.

It was received with pleasure; and the warm
thanks given in return made Jerry's cheeks tingle
to such an alarming degree that it was well he
had the usual coating of paint to hide them, or
little Lisette might have been seriously alarmed
for her friend's welfare.

She, however, was in happy ignorance of the
inward tumult every word she spoke tended to
increase, and was talking in her simple confiding
way of all that had happened since she and her
old friend and protector had met.

Oh' she said, standing on tiptoe before the
mirror fastened up inside of the tent, in order to
catch sight of herself in it  " oh, it has seemed like
the years since you went away, so long, so long.
I missed seeing you very much at first, but they
were all kind, very kind. I did not know I had
so many friends until you went away."

Jerrj twirled his cap thoughtfully, not to say
nervously, between his fingers, and did not express
any surprise that the little fancy rider should
have so soon become a favourite. I suppose he
did not consider it a point worth arguing about ;

at any rate he let it pass, like the wise fellow he
was, and asked instead :

And Smith % Has he looked after ' The Turk'
every evening for you ? I gave him the tip, for,"
he was going to add, " some people are fond of
playing tricks ; " but he could not afford to spoil
his content just then by any suspicion of ill favour
towards his fellows, so added instead, "for I know
he " (meaning Smith) " is only too ready to repay
your kindness to him."

Me ! what did I do ? " asked Lisette, striving
in vain to disengage a cluster of white roses from
her hair, and sadly entangling the pretty brown
curls by so doing. " What did I do for him, eh % "

You were kind to him without knowing it,"
said Jerry, a little absently.

"Without knowing it! You do not then give
me the credit to be kind because I wished it. You
are complimentary," and Lisette laughed just the
prettiest laugh in all the world, as she dragged
out the long word.

No, I am not," said Jerry fervently. " I hate
compliments. I always speak the truth."

Then tell me how is this. Will the flowers
look well ? " And having fastened the white roses
carefully in her bodice, and half-hidden the violets
in a knot of curls, the little fancy rider, owing to
the smallness of the looking-glass, evidently not
quite satisfied in her own mind that her handiwork
was successful, turned to our hero in her
simple way to gain his approval.

Although Jerry had just declared he always

spoke the truth, when thus so artlessly challenged
he seemed to lind some difficulty in keeping to his
rule. It might have been that words would not
have expressed his admiration of the pretty figure
in front of him, but I think it really was because
he had himself just had an experience of how
sweet is flattery to the frail human heart, and
he did not care to be one of those who would
wantonly spoil a simple childlike trust.

As it was, he eyed the girl in front of him with
a cool deliberation, of which he had hardly deemed
himself capable in his hot-headdress of a few
moments before, and said carelessly :

Yes, that will do very well, but I don't like
this dress as well as the white one. The other is
not quite so ' gay' as this, but, you'll do, you'll do."

You hypocrite Jerry, to assume such a nonchalant
tone. Of course she'll " do."

Lisette received our hero's praise very gaily.

That is good," she said smiling. " You say it
as you mean. I know that. You do not say,
You are beautiful, you are like an angel, Lisette;'
it would not be true, and I like it best as you say
it, ' You'll do, you'll do.' " And the lively girl
repeated the words in a comical imitation of his
own serious manner, which made Jerry smile.

I'm glad you don't like people who want to
fill your head with all sorts of nonsense," he said
in his fatherly way. " But now tell me, how have
you been getting on % "

Very well, very well. I have had the call
three times this week, for the skipping-rope trick.

-nd Mr Petman has been pleased. He has said
so."

Jeny wondered whether he had proffered anymore
substantial proof of his pleasure at the little
artiste's success, but decided in his own mind that
it was hardly likely.

Yes," went on Lisette gaily, " he was very-pleased.
Herr Hermann said so."

Oh, indeed," said Jerry carelessly. " When did
lie tell you that % "

To-night ; he wrote it  see," and from her
pocket the fancy rider produced a little twisted
note, carefully unfolding which she handed it
frankly to her friend.

Jerry stared somewhat blankly at the few words
the note contained. His rather puzzled expression
made Lisette laugh.

Oh, I am silly," she said, laughing heartily ;
1 forget, it is in my language and his, and you
do not understand. Let me tell you. It is 
The master was very pleased last night that you
did so well. He himself said it. He rarely wastes
this breath in praise, so you ought to feel particularly
honoured. Allow me to offer my congratulations,
and should you think of wearing the
very pretty costume, in which we all agreed
you looked most charming last night, Avill these
few roses not go well with it ? If you should
think otherwise, throw them away.  Your countryman,
Carl Hermann.' "

Lisette made this rough translation of the note
s naively as though it were some lesson she were

repeating, while Jerry for once wished he was
scholar enough to understand the " gibberish ''
for himself, although not for a moment did he
doubt that he was fully master of the contents of
the letter. His little friend could have no object
in hiding half her confidence from him.

Before, however, he had time to say a word in
reply, the curtains over the opening into the ring
parted, and some one entered.

He did not notice who it was, but Lisette was
not so occupied in tugging at those tiresome little
curls, which under no persuasion whatever could
be induced to lie straight, but that she could
spring away from our hero's side to greet, with
her usual childish impetuosity, the new comer.

It was Carl Hermann, the young ring-master,,
who hastened to return his little countrywoman's
salutation, and listen to the half shy, half arch
little speech she made him in her own tongue,
evidently thanks for his gift, for by looks and
gestures the young man seemed to imply it was
but a poor gift, that the pleasure in it was on his
side at their being accepted.

This, however, the fancy rider shyly persisted
was not the case, and evidently not adverse to
be the recipient of her gratitude, Carl Hermann
listened to her quaintly-worded thanks with evident
gratification.

Nor was that all, for from the flowers he turned
the conversation to the approval which Mr Pet-man
had expressed at the little German girl's
very successful performance, and from that to

other matters, which, judging by the signs of
merriment which every now and then escaped
Lisette, were highly amusing and interesting.

She was not noisy in her mirth, but kept smiling,
while the dimples chased each other over her
pretty face in a manner most bewitching to behold.

So Jerry thought, after watching them for a
few moments. At the end of that time he began
to wish he could join in the joke, or at least
understand what was the subject upon which the
two compatriots spoke, for the conversation was
of course carried on in their native tongue, which
was naturally totally unintelligible to any of their
companions  our hero among the number.

In spite of this, however, as I have said, he at
first watched with something very akin to pleasure,
while the, to him, queer words fall from the
pretty red lips, but after a time, when he saw how
the chat was almost a one-sided one  but for that
reason none the less apparently interesting to
both parties  how low impressively uttered sentences
 why impressive he could not tell  were
listened to with earnest attention ; no answer
vouchsafed, save a shy smile, and more than once
a bright glance tell-tale in its brilliancy, he began
to wonder in his own mind how long the tete-astute
was going to last; to be amused and not a
little gratified to see how singularly different was
his little friend's demeanour to this comparative
stranger, so nervous and self-conscious, to the
simplicity and naivete which had so lately pleased
him ; then to wish he could catch Lisette's eye

o as to beckon her to come again to his side ; to
wonder why she did not do so. She was surely
spinning out her thanks to a totally unnecessary
degree. Why did that fellow detain her? He
must surely be aware she wanted to get back to
her old friend, they had much to talk about after
being so long apart. Of course they had ; at
least I can answer for Jerry.

He had, I must confess, been somewhat preoccupied
during the interview he had already
lead ; but he had just made up his mind to make
Tip for lost time, and impart something of very
great importance to his little friend. He would
wait no longer  no, not another day ; he would
make this communication at once, without any
further delay. He had been foolish to put it off
so long ; he would  As he came to this conclusion,
with a promptitude which surprised
even himself, our hero turned to where the object
of his thoughts stood, and unconsciously
the rest of his thoughts never came to light,
tor what he saw before him made it all forgotten,
all give place to one idea, and that 
What %

I have said that my hero was not particularly
clever in any one way, excepting his business, ashe
called it. He did not, as a rule, show any remarkable
proof of possessing a very keen perception
; it was more often than not that he let a
good chance of some sort slip through his fingers
because of his blundering ; and rather than otherwise
he was  I may as well own it candidly 

slow at discerning a point which to others would
be only too plain.

Yes, Jerry was not, as a rule, very quick of
comprehension, but in the instance of which I
write he saw only too clearly, in one brief moment,
what perhaps it would have been better for
him to have learnt by degrees.

And what did he see %

Only those two  the new friends, as he had
lately called them  Carl Hermann and Lisette
Hartzmann  standing together opposite to him ;
he with his head bent, and an incomprehensible
look on his handsome face  Jerry could not but
admit it was handsome  and doubly so with its
look of eagerness and interest, making the dark
eyes flash from under the long lashes, which
shaded the sallow cheek, now slightly flushed,
thus adding an additional charm to a countenance
in which the chief fault was usually its want of
animation ; she with her face slightly turned
away, but a tell-tale blush of great intensity
burning in the one visible cheek, the eyelids
drooping suspiciously over the merry brown orbs
until they were suddenly raised with a look such
as Jerry had never seen in them before  a look
which, often as he had seen them full of gratitude
and tenderness, made every previous glance
forgotten, for this unconsciously betrayed to that
onlooker a secret, even she who gave it, and he
on whom it fell, did not guess was in existence.

What each felt at that moment I know not.
To the ordinary beholder, they were only a pretty

girl aud a fine-looking young fellow, an interesting
couple, exchanging a greeting of some warmth,
for the two hands which were clasped, certainly
did so with so much fervour, to judge from the
way in which they lingered in each other, as
though loath to leave.

But Jerry saw more than this. He saw suddenly
all his castles in the air tumble to the
ground. Until he heard the crash of their fall
he scarce knew to Avhat a height he had raised
their walls, scarcely knew he had so much as
dug the foundation, before he found to his cost
how rotten a one it was. All his hopes crushed
and dead in one brief moment of consciousness.

He had truly waited, and that, alas ! too long.
Too long had he delayed to ask for what he now
knew was beyond his reach ; he had waited and
lost all. And while he had been absent, " people "
had truly been kind to his little friend ; they had
more than taken his place to her, for here was
one who, even more than the master, was pleased
with the little artiste, and she in return the same
with him, unless those pretty brown eyes were
false to their owner ; here was one who thought
it no waste of breath to praise anything so charming
as the dainty little fairy  praise she was only
too honoured to receive ; here was one for whom
the pretty costume of scarlet satin had been
donned, whose roses were carefully guarded
above the fluttering little heart, so that every
breath of air floated their delicate fragrance to
the owner's senses ; one who spoke in a language

which truly our hero might not use, although lie,
as perfectly as those Who uttered it, knew and
interpreted its import.

Too late, Jerry, too late !

That sweet face on which he had once dared
to dream of imprinting a kiss to seal a new and
dearer relationship  those pretty lips which once
he dared dream should whisper in answer to the
one question which has never been absent from
your mind all the long days of that month, the
only reply he had thought they would frame 
that little angel being whose life was to him one
source of pleasure to think upon, would never
fulfil his dreams now. The face, the eyes were
bright with a scarcely created feeling which
sealed the lips for ever to him, and placed a
distance wider than the whole breadth of the
earth between the fair young life and his. Too
late I Yes, Jerry almost uttered the words aloud
as he stood gazing with bright, all-seeing eyes at
what he saw.

He must dream no more, build no more castles
in the air, but wake to stern reality, clear away
the ruins of his fallen edifices, and know that the
happy future he had planned for himself would
never be, never anything but something too
beautiful to be realised in this hard existence.
That question which was to have made him the
happiest of men must remain unanswered  nay,
unasked  by him. His place was given to
another, who would, if appearances spoke truly,
be only too willing and ready to accept it.

Yes, Jerry found this all out as he stood there
waiting for Lisette to come back to him, and
knowing well she had gone from him for ever.

And what did he do when this knowledge came
to him so swiftly and surely? He did not flinch
nor turn pale. If he did the latter, the paints
upon his cheeks covered the evidence of his inability
to entirely withstand this cruel attack upon
his life's happiness, did not even move his gaze
from the future, which he would never forget.

No, he only coolly took his hands out of his
pockets where they had been extending his voluminous
trousers to their greatest breadth, a
trick of the young clown's when he was particularly
puzzled, his favourite attitude when ina
brown study  therefore one not very often
adopted by him  calmly turned down his collar,
which had somehow assumed its favourite position,
standing up beyond his ears, and taking
his "jelly-bag" hat, as the boys called it, from
where it was planted at an extreme angle at the
back of his head, and placed it with the utmost
precision in its proper place, over his nose.

This done he stared thoughtfully at his shoes
for some moments, as though seeking to find
in the monstrous crimson rosettes (bows were
too modern) a solution to the mystery he was
working out with so much difficulty. Presently,
however, he apparently gave up the problem,
and removing his gaze, discovered for the first
time that he still held in his hand Carl Hermann's
note which he had sent with the flowers.

Half involuntarily he twisted the dainty missive
in his fingers and crushed it in his strong grasp
just as he was trying so mercilessly to crush the
hope out of his strong brave heart. How nobly
did he bear the test, only for a moment filled with
wild anger against the fate which, in one glance,
had showed him how it mocked his happiness \
Then the struggle was over, the battle was won ;
and as though ashamed of having given vent to
his feelings in so petty a manner, he spread the
note, with its words in the language he could
not understand, out on his broad palm, and carefully,
almost reverently  for it belonged to lisette
 smoothed out the folds and doubled it as
it had been given to him.

This done, he crossed the ante-room just as
the Breaknecks, the' performance over, entered,
and touching Lisette lightly on the arm, held the
letter out to her, saying simply, 

This is yours  is it not ? "

As he spoke, did he think of the dream he had
so lately had, when everything he owned, his life,.
himself, worthless as he accounted that possession,
was to have been hers, and all she possessed, her
own sweet self, his %

Now even this scrap of paper he dared not
keep, because it belonged to her, and she would
never be anything else but his little friend, the
little girl whom he had been allowed to protect
and guard from ill until some one more worthy
claimed that privilege. Lisette turned quickly,
and blushed slightly, though he did not look

at her, but at her companion, whose gaze was
fortunately fixed on the Httle German girl,
or the keen searching look with which his inferior
(?) favoured him, might have been resented.
She took the paper with a quick "thank you,"
and holding it to Herr Hermann, made some
remark upon its contents.

The ring-master smiled, and tossing his head
with a peculiar gesture of hauteur which became
him well, made some light reply in his own
language ; in reply to which he received a quick
glance from the pretty brown eyes, half defiant,
half shy.

Carl Hermann smiled, and taking the note from
her, pointed to some words in it, as though to
justify his last remark. Then, as Lisette shook
her head in disbelief, he, as though absently,
tore the missive and let the fragments fall to
the ground.

It was a little action, but perhaps because he
was in a particularly alert mood it struck Jerry,
he scarce knew why, unpleasantly.

No doubt he thought Lisette would have liked
to have treasured the little note as a remembrance
of past kindness, but if she scarcely noted the
action, why should he ?

Before he had time to take himself to task in
the matter, the band struck up Friiulein Harts
music. Smith, with an air of pride
comical to behold, led forth "The Turk" into
the ring. Jerry hesitated a moment, cast a
stolen glance at Lisette, then turned, and instead

of offering her his hand as usual, drew aside the
curtain over the entrance and made way to let
her pass.

Apparently his services were not missed ; you
see, during his absence, some one else had taken
his place. The young ring-master himself unfastened
the long cloak from the snowy throat,
disclosing the daintily-clad form, handed back
the whip he had been holding with a low bow
and a few whispered words, then taking the little
hand within his own, just as Jerry used to do,
only I fancy the clasp was a little bit tighter,
the hold not quite so cold, bent his head and
led the little fancy rider from the ante-room.
Our hero dropped the curtain, stood for a moment
listening with a queer look on his face to the
storm of applause which greeted the fair young
artiste's appearance, then gave himself a shake,
and retiring to a distant corner, practised " double
wheels" with the greatest vigour and precision,
until one of the grooms told him Miss Hartzmann's
first act was over. Then with a one, taro, three,
a loud "Wallalloo," whatever language that might
be, Jerry too, with a magnificent hand-over-hander,
made his entrance into the ring.

A SHATTERED CASTLE.

And that was how Jerry saw the first brick in his-castle
in the air give way which in the end was to
bring those fragile edifices  why do we trouble
to build them to such a height of such flimsy
material ?  about his ears ; that in the days to
come, wherever his steps turned, his feet must
strike against some shattered fragments of what
was once so fair a piece of architecture : fit house
in every verity for the peerless queen, sweetest of
angels, yet most perfect of mortals  who ?

None other than the poor little fancy rider, little
Lisette Hartzmann, who was alone in the world
at it were, alone in our big England with scarcely
a friend or countryman near her to  Stay, there
was Carl Hermann ; he was her countryman  that
would of course prove a tie to arouse in him at
least a feeling of kindliness towards her ; yes, but
how about the interrupted conversation on that
night, when a tired, weary-looking girl, shabbily

dressed in black, had claimed his attention for one
moment from his companion, the girl in the green
ulster, who, too, had been so impatient at the
obstacle to continuing the tete-astute?

Ah, but that was quite a different affair ; one
is not compelled because one meets a countrywoman
in a strange land to rush as it were into
her arms and intrude oneself into her business.

Certainly not; all that a gentleman is bound
to do is to listen quietly and attentively to her
question, giving her his whole attention for the
time, without allowing a glance of any sort, either
of amusement, indifference, or annoyance, or intonation
of the voice to betray there is anything
about her appearance to warrant such, and to
answer Avhat she asks as well as is in his power,
with perhaps the licence of offering a little advice,.
if not a kindly proffer of help, or word of reassurance
 that is all he had to do. And who was the
more likely to prove her friend ?

Carl Hermann, the handsome, nice-spoken ,
not a little known and appreciated
for his pretty little speeches and compliments, all
the more highly valued because never bestowed
unless upon some worthy object, or Jerry, the
clown, the rough-and-ready sort of a fellow, nota
bit well favoured in outward appearance, and
with a manner which on a first acquaintance
struck one as no way a contrast to his person. I
leave the reader to judge whether this first impression
of my hero was corrected or not by after
actions. He had, as we have seen, no very great
VOL. I. L

reputation among the ladies with whom he had todo;
these, in the true sense of the word, were not
many, and certainly roughing it on the road was
hardly calculated to improve the polish, if there
was any to commence with, which was not very
often, while equestrian performances and the like
were hardly favourable to any save the English
(bad) language. One forgot to be grammatical
when " Devil-may-care " made a short step at
every banner ; the Lord Harry was the only historical
character whose memory survived when
one discovered Will Breakneck, who was holding
the trick balloon in which a Union Jack was
placed so as to come to hand, during the leap, ora
night garment and cap disposed so as to be
slipped over the shoulders in the moment of transition,
was considerably fatigued by his many and
frequent journeys in the direction of the " Green
Dragon" and the "Red Lion." {N.B. Why not
the "Red Dragon," the "Green Lion?) As
regards geography, more than one artist was
nightly cheered for his performance with the
globe, but beyond this no one was particularly
fond of showing his knowledge of the science ;
while as for arithmetic, though it was an assured
fact had there been any defection in the weekly
screw the recipient was sure to at once make the
discovery, but as no one had any need to count
beyond the numeral of twenty (shillings) for this,
any want of knowledge in " figures " was no drawback
to the company, unless in the light the signer
put it when gazing in awed, not to say admiring,

astonishment at Madame Fourteenstone's corpulent
form. Poor " Star of the Evening," it was a
pity, as Will Bones remarked, horses like railway
trucks could not be labelled " not to carry
more than so many tons," an announcement which
at a performance on the following day was emblazoned
forth before the eyes of the giggling delighted
audience on a placard, slipped with great
dexterity round the neck of the well-trained steed
of the rather massive lady-rider, a Httle joke which,
though fully appreciated by all save the said
animal's rider, led to a prompt dismissal of the
lively acrobat, who forthwith joined a rival show,
on which he made his manager's fortune and
broke his own neck, by his new and marvellous
feat on a slack wire which was, as his old enemy
Madame remarked, " not made to carry four tons
or one ounce of pleasure for a pound of pain " (the
tenor of some of madame's remarks was somewhat
obscure at times, according to the pints of four ale
she had " rendered obscure " during the day, to
horace her up for her evening's work). Well, as
the signor said, if only the boss, zee., the mighty
Petman, had an eye to figures, it would have been
all the better for the show (" and for the horses,"
put in the incorrigible acrobat, irrespective of a
fiery ghmce from the outraged owner of " The
Star of the Evening "), while as for religion, a
young man who did the " strong " business with
light weights, who had once been pew opener at
a Methodist chapel, until he had discovered that
letting people in in a circus was better and more

remunerative than taking people out of the chapel
when overcome at the fearful pictures presented
to their minds by their beloved pastor  namely,
the contrast of their future state with that of his
own  this ex-pew opener was, I say, about the
only one in the show who made any show of possessing
any religion, he having, as Will Breakneck
declared, sufficient for all his fellows. " If he
expected to get a re-engagement with his light
weights which any one could see through, why
if he could see why the others need trouble."

But to return to our hero and the young German.


As I have said, if any one was likely to prove a
friend who more so than Carl Hermann, the young
well-educated ring-master,. her countryman ? Not
the happy-go-lucky clown with his rough ways
and self-taught manners and learning. Side by
side on a first acquaintance, the two appeared
distinctly different in every respect. The boor
and the gentleman were hardly likely to contrast
favourably. How was it Lisette Hartzmann had
been so long in making a distinction; surely a
nature like hers should have quickly recognised
gold from brass? But there, after all, how was
she to tell ? she was little more than a child  a
child in years, and a very child in the ways of the
world.

Our hero, as I said at the commencement of
this tale, hardly deserved his name. And now I
have a confession to make which, I fear, in spite
of all the trouble I have taken to set him before

the reader, will, after all, sadly overtopped any
good opinion which might have been formed of
him. You see, though he was a clown, and a
circus one too, he was a mortal after all, and nota
very strong one, I am afraid ; not perhaps much
worse than many of his fellows, but all the same
scarcely up to the mark of perfection which his
part, I do not say his character, in this story ought
to entail.

But why do I stay to excuse him ? I do not
suppose I am going to be more fortunate than my
fellows in discovering to my readers one really
and truly deserving of the name of " hero," quite
an obsolete character now-a-days, I fear, at least
in real life. Let me out with the honest truth at
once.

It was somewhat in the way with Jerry.

I have said he was as fond of a lark, a spree
(Neb. in polite language a bit of fun, if those three
words can fully express the actual meaning contained
in the one), but as a rule his enjoyment
was of a more innocent kind than that of his
fellows.

He was as fond of a joke as any one, and I
may say, without flattery, a good deal quicker at
planning and carrying such out ; and if his tricks
were not always as harmless in their fulfilment,
there is ever the well-worn excuses at hand, " you
cannot put an old head on young shoulders,"
boys will be boys," or as I read it, " boys will
(try to) be young men ; " and you may be sure if
Jerry ever became aware of the ill effects of any

of his " larking," he did his best to remedy the
evil so far as lay in his poAver, at the same time
administering to himself a sharp rebuke and
mental shaking, which as a rule had more effect
upon him than self-admonition usually does.

His fellows alway declared that at a really
good revel there was no better master than Jerry,
whom they would occasionally inveigle into making
one at their feasts, whatever they called them.
Indeed, the moving clown often by his presence ina
certain measure somewhat toned down the
character of these meetings, that is, controlled
certain high spirits so far as he was able, so doing
by a judicious move, the wisdom of which he had
long since learnt was worth any amount of preaching,
viz., that of taking the lead in their pranks,
and then when fairly acknoAvl edged as master, restraining
rather than encouraging any larks which
might lead to disagreeable consequences to the
players, or, what was of more consequence, the
played upon.

Well, then, to come to the point without any
further delay, for it will seem to the reader the
more trouble I take to defend my hero the greater
I consider his faults. On the night of his return
to the mighty Petman show, as I have said, Jerry
made the discovery that all the happy moments
he had spent on building that very pretty castle
in the air he had been wasting so much precious
time, not to say material, in the way of imagination.


It was all a mistake. He had missed his turn,.

whether from his own fault or any one else's, he
could hardly tell.

Either he was too slow or some one else too
fast  what did it matter which %

The mischief was done, and perhaps it was a
good thing he had found it out before matters
had gone too far. Better be so than have had the
discovery forced upon him before the eyes of all
the audience, meaning by this his fellow-men. It
was just this, as Jerry put it in his own way :
He was just a-going to fetch 'em with a double
hand-over-hander, right into the centre of the
sawdust, when some one as was more calculated
in every way to have a chance and please had got
in front of him, and he (Jerry) was just out of it.
The best sherry and four ale don't mix ; so, Jerry,
my boy, just bottle up and don't make an ass of
yourself."

That was our hero's reflection as, during his
turn  I am not speaking figuratively now  he,
as he put it, kept his eye upon " the two compatriots,"
which operation, in the ordinary course
of things, ought to have had a depressing effect
upon him and his business ; but it didn't. His
tricks went as briskly as ever, his antics and jokes
were just as droll, and no one would have guessed
how almost every glance from the grey-green
eyes in a certain direction meant the falling of
another brick from the lofty height of the castle
of the future  each one descending with a smash
which would have knocked every bit of humour
out of an ordinary man, that is, I mean one who

was not a clown, and whose business was not so
"born and bred in him as in our hero.

After what had occurred, after the discovery he
had made, I mean, .Jerry's double hand-overland
ought to have been an ignominious failure,
but it wasn't : it " went," as usual, capitally.
When he found himself the "right way up," and
met a bright glance from the pretty brown eyes,
that as yet never dared to meet the admiring
glances of certain equally handsome grey orbs, he
ought to have returned it with one of careless
indifference, if not of agonised beseeching, which
even he, blunt as he usually was in speech, could
not find words to express, but he didn't ; when,
in the middle of his best tale, a lady's whip fell
almost at his feet, he ought to have lost the thread
of his tale and restored the pretty plaything to
its OAvner, with a fiery glance at his rival which
dared his interference ; when his own and Lisette's
turn came simultaneously to an end, he ought to
have ousted all other competitors, and claimed
his old right to escort the fair artiste from the
ring, but he didn't ; nay, rather joked the whole
affair by assuming the manner of a shy performer,
and hanging back bashfully to one side of the
ring, until Will Breakneck stepped forward and
led him, bowing and kissing his hand in the most
gushing manner, from the ring, imitating to the
life the one two three little skips and a jump with
which it is usual for lady riders to make their
exit, but rather marring his character, but creating
a roar of laughter, by converting the jump into a

double somersault ; while surely even the stoutest
heart that hero in fiction ever possessed (which
certainly wasn't Jerry), would not have been
proof against such a lamentable and prophetic
picture as that presented by a certain bunch of
Violets lying withered and crushed in the sawdust,
under the very feet of the little German fancy-rider,
as she shyly gave her hand to the young
ring-master, to take her answer to the very loud
and prolonged call, forgetting that to her merry
partner in the turn belonged half the honours,
while the white roses were still carefully guarded
over the fluttering little heart  of course it fluttered,
one does not always get the double balloon
held so steadily as to make the two-flag trick
go " with such eclat  ought to have reduced the
young clown to the lowest ebb of wounded feelings,
with which, and the discarded flowers safely
cherished in his left breast coat-pocket, just because
they reposed for the space of ten minutes
among some dusky brown curls, half hidden by
them for fear they should spoil the effect of the
pretty costume, worn especially for, and greatly
enhanced by the gift of " my countryman," he
should have returned home to his desolate lodgings
and watched the dreary night over his dead
hopes, represented by the dead flowers so heartlessly
discarded.

Jerry didn't do anything of the sort. As I
have more than once said, he wasn't a bit a hero,
only an ordinary sort of a man, and so at this,
what I suppose I ought to call the crisis of his

life, he hehaverl just as any ordinary mortal would
have done.

He accomplished his double hand-over-hander
as successfully as usual, responded to little Lisette's
glance with a gay nod and smile, which, so far as
I know, did not cost him a very great effort, certainly
did not wring his heart-strings, allowed
Smith to return the fallen whip to its fair owner
and as for the flowers, left them to be raked away
among the sawdust, when it was swept up on the
morrow preparatory to the start on the Monday,
and far from returning to his lodgings and bemoaning
his fate  though he certainly did the
former, it was to make a very good supper of cold
steak pudding and stout, and afterwards to retire
to rest and sleep, if not exactly the sleep of the
innocent, at least that of one who has earned and
enjoys his repose.

The next morning being Sunday, he ought to
have taken his mother's prayer-book from where
it lay wrapped up in a coloured handkerchief at
the bottom of his portmanteau, and found his way
to a church, during the service to discover he had
missed his vocation  if I may use the word  in
being a circus clown, he was meant rather to make
people snivel with fear than to laugh for happiness
at innocent folly, and so he would turn parson, or
clerk, or some such.

In reality Jerry did nothing of the sort. To
begin with, his mother had never left him a
prayer-book, so he had not got it tied up in his
handkerchief, which, if he had, he could never

have had secreted at the bottom of his portmanteau,
not possessing such an aristocratic article
of luggage, his usual receptacle for his few worldly
private belongings being a carpet-bag and a well-worn
battered trunk for his " properties."

Thus, although the bells of a church near at
hand early woke him with their " clang-clang,"
repeated with an energy and rapidity truly enterprising
on the part of the bell-ringer, and
doubly deafening on that of the listener, Jerry
did not for a moment think of replying to their
invitation.

You see he wasn't used to that " sort of thing""
as he called it. Not that he was a " scoffer," as
the gentleman owner of the light weights called
it, but I think if any one had cared to ask him
his views, they would have found his idea was 
the way a man got through life was his religion,
duty first, pleasure afterwards, take the good
with the bad, and make the best you can out of
them.

Well, as I said, Jerry did not go to church ;.
on the contrary, he devoutly wished the sacred
edifice had been some streets removed from him,,
that he might have enjoyed a continuation of his
repose, but finding this end unlikely, he got up
made a good breakfast, and went for a stroll
round, which ended in the ground where the show
was " pitched."

Here, with great secrecy and despatch, lest any
suspicion should be aroused that the mighty Pet-man
was breaking, or allowing to be broken, th

fourth commandment  a supposition which would
have been fatal to his reputation as a manager
active preparations were being made for the
departure on the morrow. Sunday, I may observe,
was always a busy day with the show ; if
not one for travelling, it was always one of preparations
: any little odd jobs in the carpentry or
painting line were always attended to on this
day.

Tims Jerry, as usual, found life pretty active
among the circus tents, and not knowing a better
way  at least one more to his liking  than making
himself useful, he sent off one of the hands,
a poor, wretched lad of about seventeen, who
had joined the show about two years previous,
his soul filled with a wild wish to belong to anything
so glorious and gorgeous as a circus, willing
to give his services for the glory of the affair, or,
at least, for the nominal salary of eighteen pence
a week ; a view of the matter, however, which he
had long since relinquished, as, a prey to the
pangs of hunger, he did his eighteen pence regularly
on what he styled a good blow-out, every
Saturday night, and then spent the whole Sunday
wondering how he was going to exist the rest
of the week. The poor simpleton had eaten so
liberally of boiled pork, greens, and suet pudding,
at a cook shop iii the town, that he was simply
incapable of any action, save to blubber like the
proverbial *' town bull," and implore some one to
knock him on the head, and put him out of his
misery, for the green and yellow stars floating

before his eyes made it next to impossible for
him to hold his head up, much less assist in the
emotion of the temple of the mighty Penman
who, in spite of an extraordinary good run of luck,
since he could not quarrel with fortune, was ready
to vent his spite on any one near at hand; having,
like many holding his office, a certain quantity
of spleen to get rid of during the week, out
it must come, sooner or later.

And out it did come, when, like Jerry, instead
of going to church, after his breakfast, he, the
manager, strolled down to see how matters were
getting on with the show  (he never could make
out why it was people were always so sleepy and
slow on Sundays ; if they couldn't keep awake
and lively, they might just as well go to church)
and found Joe Turner, the lad in question, who
as long as the owner of the cook-shop where he
had laid out his one bob and a tanner lives, will
be remembered as having bolted at the greatest
rate this worthy man had ever witnessed, the largest
supply of pork, greens, and pudding, ever served to
any customer, but that not remembered longer, orin
a greater degree, than will the consumer thereof
recall the same event; when, I say, this unfortunate
youth was found by the energetic manager,
crouching in a somewhat singular attitude, more
expressive of submission than any group ever
formed even in their most dramatic moods by the
famous family of the elder Jerry  with one of
whose numerous offspring this tale has to do  he
(the worthy manager) poured forth the vials of

his wrath upon this unlucky dependant's head,
and angrily bade him set about his work.

This command the unfortunate lad was doing
his best to obey  being, however, it must be confessed,
more a hindrance than a help  when Jerry
arrived on the scene of action. He didn't say
much ; he never did at any time, especially when
particularly roused, but his necktie suddenly
began its endeavours to reach the neighbourhood
of his right ear, and that, as my reader already
knows, meant danger.

'* Here Joe," he said, quietly taking from the
lad's shaking bauds the screw-driver with which
for the last ten minutes he had been experimenting
on one particular nail in the woodwork
which formed the support for the seats round the
ring, trying in vain to distinguish it from among
green balls and yellow stars  mixed this time  a
feat which so far had only resulted in severe
damage to his shaking fingers, and gave but
little promise of his accomplishing his task by the
time the master came round his way again  poor
Joe, it behoved him to look out then  " Here,
Joe," said Jerry quietly, "leave it alone; you're
only doing more harm than good. Leave it alone."

I doesn't, sir," said the lad, staggering against
Jerry even while he spoke, and shuddering violently.
" It's the master's orders ; that'll he say? "

You leave that part of the matter to me ;
what's up, you're mighty queer ? "

Oh lor', sir, it was the pudding as did it ; it
-was that rich, but I was that hungry," sobbed Joe,

doubling himself up, and becoming as limp as a
muslin apron before it is starched. What a miserable
object he did look, to be sure. Jerry, try
as he would, could not resist a smile. But he did
something else besides.

He caught the victim to the allurements of
steak pudding by the collar, not roughly  the
poor lad was little better than a bag of bones, a
perfect skeleton ; you quite expected to hear two
bones rattle when he moved, while there seemed
every possibility of his collapsing altogether if
any one administered a slight shake to his emaciated
form  and half lifting, half dragging, succeeded
in getting him ensconced upon a pile of
sacking, and, bidding him cheer up and not make
a fool of himself over a trifle, proceeded to cover
him up with some horse cloths. While thus engaged
in showing his knowledge of the existence
of a story concerning a good Samaritan, Mr Pet-man
made his appearance.

Now, you young , Joe, why aren't you at

your work ? What do you suppose I pay yer

for, eh ? Why, what the " (something extra

strong, called forth by the sight of Joe comfortably

disposed among the sacking)  " what the

does this mean '{ "

There is no describing the amount of passion
the worthy manager condensed into this one
blank, while the wrathful indignation depicted on
his expansive countenance would have awed anyone
less dauntless than our hero, and even he, ashe
afterwards owned, fancied he had got a little

more than he bargained for, but he did not show
it, not he. He just took off his coat and hung it
on a nail, and said quietly, as he set to work on
the aggravating nail, which had so baffled all poor
Joe's endeavours, and drew it out with a quickness
and precision which distinguished his movements
whenever he was particularly roused : 

"I'm very sorry  for Joe, sir  he's a bit shaky ;
ate too much pudding yesterday. Anyhow, it's
no use him wasting time trying to do what he
can't. He'll only be fit for nothing tomorrow.
If you've no objection I'll take his place. I haven't
anything better to do."

His quiet manner, just cool enough to show
determination, but not careless enough to be
called impertinent, had the desired effect  the
lion grew tame.

Infuriated as he was, the manager knew of old
that one Jerry was worth twenty Joes, especially
Awhile the latter was under the influence of the
weighty steak pudding. He growled out something
about *' infernal laziness " and " people
minding their own business," but passed on, to
vent his spite, however, on some one else, who,
it is to be hoped, was more capable of defending
himself than poor Joe.

Thus it happened that all that Sunday afternoon
saw Jerry working like a horse among the
show paraphernalia.

At first he was rather silent, he was thinking a
bit, turning the events of the day before over
in his mind, and didn't feel very much inclined to

share in the not-too-refined conversation which
went on round him.

If the men objected to Sunday work it could
hardly be put down to any respect to the day, for
they seemed to look upon it as a sort of half-business,
half-holiday, and combined their work
with such tricks and horse-play as seemed to
please their fancy.

Under this state of affairs the work progressed
but slowly. Jerry stuck to his, but he moved
more than half mechanically. Presently, hoAvever
he roused himself a bit.

Look here, men," he said, in his ringing voice,.
as he came between two grooms, who were about
to settle a little difference which had occurred, by
means of a hand-to-hand fight, ** we're at work
now, and let's do it and get done, I say. Leave
your romps till after, or if they get to the boss's
ears there'll be something to pay."

No one asked you to interfere," said one of the
combatants sulkily.

"I think it's as well for you I did," replied
Jerry good temperedly, glancing from the speaker
to his would-be opponent, a big, brawny fellow,.
head and shoulders taller than he was.

This caused a laugh against the smaller man,,
and put the giant into a good temper.

Right you are, guv'nor," he said, giving Jerry
a sounding smack on the back that made him
stagger ; " 1 never fights any one smaller than
myself, so stow your wax. Josh, and find some one
more yer own size to try yer jokes on next time."
VOL. I. M

After this the work certainly went on more
briskly, and the workers were, as a matter of
course, more orderly. Jerry had administered a
glass of bitters to Joe, in imbibing which the lad's
lank body assumed such a likeness to a corkscrew
that Jerry roused a flame of hope in his heart by
telling him that if he would repeat the experiment
in the ring he would be certain to far outrival
'* the man without bones," and the world-renowned
"Human Knot," so called from the
facility with which he tied himself up in a knot,
which it would have baffled even the far-famed
Davenport Brothers to untie.

This thought appeared to comfort poor Joe so
much that he fell into a quiet sleep, on awakening
from which he was fully recovered from all ill
effects of suet pudding and its entertainments, all
of which he registered a solemn vow  as solemn as
lie knew how to make it  to abstain from for the
future.

So passed Jerry's first day after his return to
the show. Did he think that in future he would
try and fill the empty place in his heart, left
Vacant by the love he had so fondly cherished
only to have torn from his hold at the last
moment, With the no less deserved, if not less
valued, gratitude of those whom he could befriend?


It might have been ; I do not know. All I am
at liberty to disclose as the results of his long
and deep thinking, as he sat as usual puffing
iway at his pipe, that never failing comforter,

prior to retiring for the night, was the one
thought which he uttered aloud, 

Well, Jerry, you've missed your turn, my man,
but you'll have to go on as before and brave it
out. She mustn't know  for it wouldn't do to
call up a cloud in the sky which is so bright for
her. God bless her."

And that was how our hero made his determination
to bear his burden bravely. He was just
going to let things go on as they were. He
would never in all his life forget what he had
hoped might once be, but, all the same, " she was
happy," and so he was quite content to go on as
before.

THE SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT.

But although Jerry, as is the usual way with
man, proposed to so quietly settle his own and
others' fate, Providence chose it should be otherwise.


Matters were not to go on as they were before
the London engagement, although it was sometime
ere Jerry discovered the mistake he had
made. It all began in this way, 

It was the Monday following the young-clown's
return to the show, which during the day
had taken up its quarters at the busy market
town of Greyton, where Mr Petman expected to
even improve upon his late good business. It
was a special engagement, the show to form one
of the features of the People's Gardens lately
opened there ; to rise from the insignificance of
a mere travelling circus to the dignity of a hippodrome,
for this occasion only, namely, the
length of one month certain, two if as successful
as it was hoped.

The entertainment was in fact to be held, not
as usual in a tent or building for the purpose, butin
the open air, where extraordinary features both
new and attractive were promised.

One of the greatest of these was to be races,
which were to be run in a ring running round
the reserved seats, and closed in by the free
ones, which were raised to some feet above the
rest ; and were to be not simply ordinary races,
but chariot races for ladies, and races for gentlemen
on bare-backed steeds, in imitation of the
Indians.

Much excitement was evinced in the show
when news of all the wonders in which they
were to take part were imparted to the company
; for it had been the mighty Petman's will
to keep the affair a secret till matters were
thoroughly settled.

The show, with more secrecy than usually
attended their movements, made their way into
the town already mentioned, and fairly established
themselves in the quarters assigned to
them. This was on the Monday. As the gardens
did not open until the following Wednesday,
the manager had time to review his forces
and get them into the required order. Truth to
tell, though he gave it out as a " special engagement,"
the affair was hardly what the term implied.
To put it plainly, the company really
bespoken to occupy the ground had "gone all
to smash," as the chairman of the committee of
"the gardens phrased it, and the many and big-lettered

announcements of the wonders it was ta
exhibit, which had for so long roused the inhabitants
of the town on to the very tip-toe of expectation,
were likely to prove so much wastepaper.


What was to be done % It would never do to
start so big a scheme by disappointing the public
of one of the greatest features of the whole affair.

But who was to find a substitute for the wanting
show %

Two or three offers were made to various managers,
but " who under the sun," as declared one
of the much-tried beings, very loath to let so
magnificent a chance slip through his fingers,
but, at the same time, hardly able to endow his
already hard-worked troupe with the faculty for
being in two places at once, " who under the sun
could be expected to provide a company at such
short notice % "

It seemed certainly as though the case were a
perfectly hopeless one, and the committee men
were in despair, tearing their hair and roundly
abusing each other for having been induced to
place their trust in any manager in the world.

But matters were not so dark as they appeared.

After allowing his fellows to do considerable
damage to their various grey, auburn, and chestnut
locks, a member of the committee who had no
locks to tear came to the rescue, with a suggestion
which just saved the worthy chairman from an
untimely but romantic death by suicide.

A lucky accident had just apprised him of the

presence of the Petman Circus at Grimston, the-neighbouring
market town."

Here the suggestion was interrupted by loud
protestations against engaging a common travelling
show. The projector of the scheme listened
to these with cool contempt for some moments,,
then tried a little calm argument, and at last, as
this would not silence them, burst out with,
Very well, then, gentlemen, you've heard my
plan ; any port in a storm, I say ; you've pooh-poohed
it, now get out of the hole as best you
may. I'm not a shareholder, so if the pack of you
go to the devil you won't drag me with you."

This plain-spoken but nevertheless truthful address
had the desired effect.

No one likes to know he is on sinking sand at
any time, but never less so than when some one
within reach is in safety. Thus the entire committee
were silenced and not a little awe-struck
by the energetic address of their worthy brother,,
a state of affairs far more advantageous than their
late excitement. Who can possibly think reasonably
while every one around is talking and shouting
as fast as their tongues will let them %

A few moments' interval ensued, during which
several of the keener-sighted members made peace
with their outraged brother, and begged him to
place the whole of his scheme before them. After
the application of a good deal of soft soap and
giving way on several points which had been
several times before contested by the entire
committee of members from whose heads nature

had not yet removed the proper covering, and the
gentleman with the bald scalp and great obstinacy,
Avhen he had set his mind on a thing, battles
hitherto having ended in the ignominious defeat
of the latter, who seemed now likely to take
advantage of his victory to fight all his previous
battles over again. But as time was precious,
rather than allow him to do this, his elder
brethren ceded the disputed points, and confessed
secretly that if any wickedness went on
in the gardens during the open-air concerts, illuminations
in the Apollo's grove, dances in the
moonlight, and such like alluring delights, Hack-shaw,
the persistent member with the bald head,
w-as entirely responsible and not they.

They used to visit the gardens when the above
abhorrences were in full swing, always refusing
to allow sisters, wives, or any female relations todo
the same (it was not exactly the place for
ladies, though there were plenty of them did go),
lout this was only that the presence of some
members of the committee should keep the doings
in tone.

Of course, they always managed to do this,
though one would have imagined the bald member's
never-failing presence would have been sufficient,
judging from the unflagging energy with
which he chaperoned among the waving birch-trees
any young lady who had been so unfortunate
as to miss her way in the crowd, or found
a charming widow, who came solely for the concert,
a seat near the orchestra, from whence she

would see her husband blowing himself blind in his
efforts to make the trombone prove its mastery
over all other instruments. I may add that, in a
chaotic interval of strings, after which, fortified by
his few moments' rest, the trombone was to burst
forth and entirely gain his end and that of all
melody, the bandsman happening to catch sight
of his widow with a certain bald head hovering
in the background, he (the said bandsman)
favoured her with an expansive grin and a most
compressed wink  " Having a good time, eh % "
he asked.

After this, Hackshaw gave up the widows, and
tried young married ladies with two or three
children, whom, meaning the children, he bribed,
certainly silenced, for he nearly choked some of
them with packets of butter-scotch  but enough
of the abhorrences of this Israelite.

Let me return to the committee.

Having gained his ends and allowed himself to
be pacified rather sooner than he would otherwise
have done, the bald member (had his brethren
only known the amount of wickedness contained
in that shining globe, I should say hemisphere, for
he did not, I imagine, carry his brains in front, in
visage being one of the most harmless, childlike-looking
old paterfamilias that ever knew how to
enjoy himself) proceeded with great dignity to
put the advantages of his scheme before the committee.


This he did at some length, declaring afterwards
that hitherto he had listened to each of

<b>

them, now it Alas his turn, and he meant to pay
off all debts, which I need hardly say he did.

Bless us, how the man did talk ; the committee
was in despair, but were entirely helpless in hi
hands, having no course open to them but to listen
quietly, without daring to interrupt.

The end of it all was, however  I will spare my
reader the hmg and well-emphasized harangue,
and come to the point  the end of it all was, a
messenger was despatched with great secrecy
and speed to the mighty Petman, who, after
pleading prior engagements, word of honour, etc.,
promised to " do the job " at twice the sum he
could have expected to gain by his prior engagements,
which, as it may be guessed, existed purely
in his own imagination, his show resembling in
its process a bird that picks its food where it
will, and lights on any spot likely to be the most
fruitful.

This, then, was the real truth concerning the
special engagement.

I have said the worthy Petman had consented
to do the job ; he would have done so even, at
the terms offered, if every member of his company
was off work ; he'd have cured them and made
them up to work rather than miss the chance.

As it was, however, he had not to exercise his
medicinal skill, all the members of the show being
in first-rate condition ; this was previous to Joe
Turner's visit to the cook-shop in the town, so
he could then keep in a perpendicular position, he
could pass muster with the rest ; but the manager

had, nevertheless, enough to do to get the forthcoming
performance up to the required standard
of perfection.

Hang it'" he said, when he read the announcements
which met this eye wherever he turned, only
half the promises of which rational people would
expect to see fulfilled, " it means two turns for
some of 'em, but hang me if I'll make it two
screws."

And being a man of his word, as he always
boasted, at first to the delight of those with
whom he had to deal, but soon to their sorrow
if he had them once in his power by means of
the all-powerful agreement, he stuck to what he
said.

His company was not a very big one, as we
know, but he managed to press into service, at a
very nominal salary, several hangers-on who were
only too happy, of course, to work solely for the
honour of so glorious an enterprise, the amusement
of the worthy townsfolk, and the pleasure of
Writing one's name thus, " Signer Ragandboni
marvellous coin-swallower, will digest any coin,
from a threepenny piece to a sovereign, which the
audience care to bestow upon him. Neb.  Please
not to offer him coppers, as they have a very injurious
effect. Last engagement" (here's the
point), " People's Gardens, Greyton."

These hangers-on, who were to comprise the
new and powerful attractions, lost their robustness
in a marvellously short space of time under the
training which they were required to undergo, and

as for their " newness," how many of them would
willingly have relinquished the right to ascribe
that feature to their business, to have got
through it as easily and comfortably as an old
hand.

Glory was all very well, but it seemed to some
of the " attractions " that if it was to be bought
at the price of such complete damage to bodily
person (five tumbles nightly, violently cheered by
an admiring public, who seemed to look upon
them as a particularly interesting feature of the
entertainment, are hardly calculated to improve
one's appearance), that was the only novelty in
the whole affair.

How jolly it had seemed when sitting in a softly-cushioned
reserved seat in full view of the whole
performance, without so much as having to turn
one's head, to see Madamoiselle Canine introduce
her far-famed French poodles. Of course, it all
came natural to the pretty little pets. " Never
used a whip to one of them, ma'am. Kindness is
the only way."

Kindness ! What then is the meaning of that
dismal howl which, at intervals, from ten till one
in the day time, issues from the direction of the
pets' kennels ?

One of the dogs not well, fretting for his mistress,
always does so if she is late," which fretting
results in Fido making his appearance at the next
Saturday night show in a new trick, the "master"
having declared his intention of giving Mademoiselle
Canine's place to the famous cat-tamer

unless she can introduce some new feature into
her performance.

She sets her wits to work, and behold, Master
Fido saves her reputation by his wonderful performance
 keeping his balance on the magic glebe
which is sent rolling down a spiral staircase.

Of course it is natural for a dog to do such
things ; just as natural as a boy or girl to go to
school without being dragged there, and of course
animals have more common sense than human
beings.

Then when Signer Lerini's well-trained Arab
Caraway "  presented to him by Prince Churned,
in token of that gentleman's appreciation of his,
the signer's, skill in having tamed a whole herd of
wild ponies, and made them so docile as to more resemble
dogs in their new habits than horses  died of
stiffness of the joints and want of breath, who hinted
that its third master, from whom the signer had
bought him, had guessed he was well-nigh played
out, and so palmed him off on his less shrewd
brother % What did a bird-catcher know of
horse-kind ? Nothing. " Caraway " was nothing
but a trick-horse, blind as a bat and stupid as an
owl ; he had his tune, " The Bailiff's Daughter of
Islington," and when that was being boomed into
his ears, he didn't want any direction with the
whip. That was all sham ! Why, he was loose
one day, strayed away from the show during a
rest, when the groom in charge was indulging ina
quiet nap ; away he trots into the town ; in a
crowded thoroughfare comes upon a barrel-organ

wheezing out *' his tune," what does the sagacious
animal do but begin trotting round and round the
largest available open space, going up and down
the middle, waltzing, marching, standing on its
hind legs and pawing the air, and then when the
organ man, in common with the rest of the terrified
passers-by fled before him, quietly galloping
back to the tents whence he came.

So you see the signor's work was comparatively
easy, and he was just congratulating himself on
being able ere long to cut his family and the show
and retire into private life on his hardly-won
earnings, with only the glory of the benefit he
had conferred upon mankind by the exercise of
Ms wonderful training powers upon brute creation,
a portrait of his dearly-loved steed (also
retired to private life, i.e., been sold at an enormous
profit to Case the new world-renowned  all
these people have most wonderful reputations 
menagerie keeper  a trainer would rather starve
than part with one of his pets, you know) in the
place of honour above his fireplace, when, lo and
behold, all his brilliant and unselfish plans were
brought to nought by a most unexpected  (by his
then master, not by his former one, who heard the
news with fiendish glee, and to celebrate his forethought
gave a supper-party to his friends with a
small portion of the " tin " he had made out of the
very brotherly transaction  he was only doing ashe
had been done by  in the middle of which
feast he was suddenly called away to join a bigger
one : to use the words of the immortal bard, if I

may appropriate them to so low a creature, "A
supper not where he ate but  but where he was
eaten ")  all his then master's plans were brought
to nought by a most unexpected event.

Long before Signor Lerini had even so much as
paid back his bargain, much less laid by the little
store on which he was to retire, the well-trained
steed took the same idea into his head, and,
without word or warning, not even so much as a
parting kick, retired into private life himself, thus
entirely upsetting all his master's views on the
same subject.

As his first master pathetically remarked when
he heard the news, " The big horse-dealer had got
him at a bargain, and as it won't " (the gentleman
was a Spaniard, hence, I suppose, his peculiar
pronunciation of our language) likely that they'd
know ' The Bailiff's Daughter of Islington ' where
he'd gone, ' Caraway ' 'd have a good time of it in
about the biggest bit of grass-land to be had anywhere,
judging by the number of trick horses and
otherwise as 'd got loose and gone there." But
the signor was too enraged to do anything but
curse his ill-luck and swear round at every member
of his family in turn, after which he seemed
letter, and quietly gave it out that henceforth
each one of his offspring would have to help keep
the pot boiling.

The true interpretation of this threat was kept
dark during what I think I may fitly call a chaotic
interval ; it was so for the said family, who found
themselves, with the assistance of an uncle in the

acrobat line, considerably mixed as to the possession
of their legs and arms ; sometimes seeming
to have none which they could call their own, at
others  a delusion, they were informed sternly,
which naturally succeeded the former one  seeming
to have double the required number. Gymnastics
of a peculiar order are hardly calculated
to promote ease to perform the ordinary movements
of mortals; at least, so the little Lerinis
found, and they did not speak, I assure you,
without experience, the fruit of which was to b&
seen in the singular way in which they comforted
themselves after their two hours' closeting with
uncle.

They had, it was observed, a distinct dislike todo
anything but lie on the floor and groan ; a fact
which convinced their worthy parent that they
had been obliged to turn to none too soon ; a
little later, and as uncle put it, their muscles
would have been set, and, like blanc-mange, there
would have been no upsetting them.

The result, however, of all this mystification and
suffering  this latter on the part of the young
Lerinis  was the introduction to the show in the
place of the defunct " Caraway " *' of the famous
Chili family in their world-renowned demon-act.
Positively their first appearance in any show""
Such was the rather perplexing announcement on
the posters, which set forth in blazing colours the
news of the lately discovered, yet so strangely
popular, genius.

These are only a few instances of the way our

great novelties spring up, and without staying to
multiply examples, let me return once more to
those in hand. The day before the opening of
the People's Gardens was a busy one for all concerned
; a day long remembered by the families
of the committee men, who were nearly driven
frantic in their anxiety lest all the fuss and bother
should be too much for poor papa ; he hadn't had
a minute to himself, and dear mamma had completely
broken down when a special messenger
from Hewitt's, the big haberdasher of the town,,
delivered at the house a good-sized packet, the
contents of which, on being opened, were found
to be a dozen of the best white ties, a corresponding
number of pairs of gloves  varying in colour
from brown to the most delicate lemon and
lavender  and two silk handkerchiefs, which must
have cost at least five shillings each, one a brilliant
scarlet  papa, when he was young, had often
been taken for an Italian or a Spaniard  the other
a rich gold.

Oh," sobbed poor mamma, gathering her family
round her like a distressed hen, on beholding the-aforesaid
articles, " it is as I feared; all this worrj
has turned your poor dear father's brain."

Turned his brain ! He'd turn the brain of that
young man in Hewitt's if he didn't listen to orders
more attentively. Why, if only poor dear mamma
had not been quite so full of grief as to be incapable
of using her ordinary reasoning powers, the
sending of those " helps to make us youthful and
fascinating" might have led to all sorts of un-vol.
I. N

pleasant consequences ; a family dispute at such
a time was the very thing to be most carefully
avoided.

Fancy if, alarmed by these outward and visible
signs of inward wickedness, poor mamma had
taken upon herself to inquire where he (papa)
had scraped together enough money to buy shares
in the company at all, it would be no use making
another uncle die, for then mamma would insist
upon the whole of the family going into mourning,
and of course all gaiety would be out of the question
; and how was he to own to her face that
this was the fourth quarter of her dowry he was
making such good use of?

It would be no use papa protesting lier brain
was turned, if she chose to act queerly ; she would
know herself whether her mind and money were
right or not.

I cite this example because it fitly shows how

great was the excitement evinced on all sides

concerning the opening of the " Great People's

Gardens," which were to be such a boon to all

pleasure seekers, and to make the fortunes of all

concerned in a single week.

Yes, the excitement was very great, and none

shared it more than the mighty Petman.

As he said at least a dozen times an hour, his

reputation hung upon the affair, so far as his part

of it went, being a success.

Everything must be in order, and up to the

expectations aroused in the hearts of those who

would assemble at the opening.

The circus must be made one of the great
features.

For once, instead of only seeing others work,
Mr Petmau felt bound to put his own shoulder to
the wheel, and I can tell you he did send the cart
along at a rate.

Thus, on the already mentioned Tuesday, so
long to live in the memory of all concerned, he
issued orders for everj member of the company to
be present cm the ground for a sort of rehearsal.

Then began a struggle between master and
servants concerning over-work, which was settled
by the worthy Petman by an argument so deep
and forcible  likely to be more so if the subject
was any farther pressed  that no one ventured to
dispute it.

He maintained that each of the company was
paid for single time ; two performers in one act
were not paid double, unless, of course, they could
successfully occupy double time, which they usually
contrived to do.

Now, as we have seen, Mr Petman saw that it
would be necessary, to carry out his plans, or
rather those of the committee, to combine his
forces in the races, dances on horseback, and the
great novelty, the rosette battle, of which more
anon ; that is, at least four ladies and gentlemen
would be in the ring at a time, who, when they
first heard of the new way their talents were to
be utilised, imagined that this would severally
constitute their *' turn."

But they were soon undeceived. The guv'nor

was not going to let others share the shoe of good
luck which without their aid he would have been
unable to claim as his own ; he was not going to
be such a fool as to pay four times as much for ten
minutes' occupied time, not he. He had a little
bit of arithmetic in answer to the loud and prolonged
protestations this refusal called forthwith
to him appeared unanswerable.

He maintained that it would be absolutely giving
his money away  I doubt if he fully understood
what that meant  to pay each member of
the act performed in company with so many
others, without whom the act could not take
place, as much for his work as though he had had
his or her single time and exerted him or herself
as he or she would then be bound to do. Nos
indeed ; if four made up the act, could any lady
or gentleman be so unfair as to say the time was
all hers, or, by the same rule, that he or she
had exerted themselves to such a degree as if they
had occupied that time unaided? He did not ask
them to do this latter, and to the best of his knowledge
no man, woman, or child had ever voluntarily
done more work than he was obliged, so it
was useless for any one to advance that as an
objection.

From the nature of the worthy manager's argument,
my readers will at once guess that if he
was a diligent student in domestic economy, hi
knowledge of the political branch was small indeed.


No one, however, daring to stand up and refute

iiis statement by a direct appeal to the science in
question, the manager went on to further apply
his theory, the plain reasoning of which was that
by agreement every member was to fill so much
lime in the ring. Now, if it pleased him to chop
this said time up into sections of a few moments,
and distribute the artist's talent in small pieces
throughout the entertainment, there was no clause
in the said agreement to prevent him so doing.
Thus, for instance, hitherto Madame Fourteen-stone
had enjoyed an uninterrupted fifteen minutes
for her act ; now she was cut down to ten,
the remaining five to be distributed under various
names of various nationalities, such as Miss Quickset,
Mademoiselle Fragile, Signora Macaroni, and
the champion huntress Diana, in the various complicated
acts in which she played second, third, or
fourth party ; the names, be it observed, chosen
in accordance with the act to be performed by
eight trained steeds, all old hands  or rather feet
at the business, which had been borrowed from
a fellow manager by the energetic Petmau. Quiet
was lambs, every one of them, a baby could have
made them perform, provided he whistled the
various airs to which they had been trained.

i\.s regards the names, I may say that as Miss
Quickset, Madame Fourteenstone, in company
with the Misses Hurdle, Waterjump, and Sunken-fence,
was to take one of these spirited animals
over various leaping appliances disposed at stated
distances along the race-course ; as Mademoiselle
Fragile to engage in the equestrian quadrille

and waltz ; as Signora Macaroni to urge on woof
the same in a fiery chariot race ; and as
Diana to take part in a steeplechase to be also
held in the race - course-undertaking all these
marvellous feats to fill out the time she had
before occupied by her elephantine gambles on
The Star of the Evening," who was now toto
be driven, in company with every other
pad horse, single-handed by the signer in the
striking but rather inappropriate costume of
Apollo, which he had been advised to adopt as
one of the most likely to suit his build and
personal attractions. Already the vain old man
was picturing in his mind the glances of admiration
he would elicit when his rather podgy
figure, clad in the brightest pink blessings, the
most gorgeous green and gold tunic and body,
a bow and arrow slung over his shoulder, and
a wreath of immortelles  "Just as if any one
will know them from cauliflowers," growled Jack
Breakneck, on hearing this wonderful costume,.
a triumph of art indeed, described  twined in
his long tow-coloured locks, which were to float
gaily behind him as he assumed such poses a&
never mortal dared assume before in the rather
unsteady position, standing upright on one steed
while he drove the whole team six abreast at
full speed round the race-course and, crowning
point of all, over a hurdle about three feet
high. The signor had voluntarily undertaken
this performance, solely, he said, for the sake
of adding to the fame of the show, but it was

well known really for the sake of satisfying his
absurd love of flattery, for the admiration which
he naturally expected the superb Apollo dress
would obtain for him. This dress, he declared,
had cost no end of money when he had had it
sent straight from Paris to perform before the
Crown Princess of Timbuctoo, who had fallen
so deeply in love with him that his Highness
the Crown Prince had offered him an enormous
sum to quit the country and cease to disturb his
wedded happiness.

Patchouli, as he said, whenever he could find
anyone with sufficient patience to listen to his
tale, refused the bribe, but left the country
nevertheless.

My friend," he would say, with a tragic air
which sat but strangely on his corpulent figure,
"my friend, I am a man of honour. I have
never married, for fear my wife should be jealous
of the honours I receive at fair hands ; why,
then, should I try and wreck the happiness of
so open - hearted a gentleman as the Crown
Prince proved himself to be ? 1 do not deny
if, in the glances which, try as I would to control,
would pass between the royal lady and
myself; if, I say, in them she had guessed that
the dress which I wore was not ill-fitted to its
wearer  I will not deny that for an instant, an.
instant Avorth more than a thousand ordinary
years, 1 realised that her royal robes (ah, you
may smile, Epsom ; you would not had you seen
her) could hardly have graced one more truly

a queen  I put the thought from me as though
it were poison. I am a gentleman, sir ; and so,
thanking the Prince for his kindness, I went on
my way, to see the Princess no more."

And in token of the sincerity of what he said,
the signor gently pressed his second finger and
thumb to his eyelids  he had to suppress any
Snore violent signs of emotion for fear of damaging
his very ingenious make-up ; tears would
have taken from the carefully darkened eyelashes
some of their raven glossiness, and might
in their course have truly furrowed his beautifully
tinted and powdered cheeks  and running
his fingers through the abundant raven locks,
dyed and arranged with an art any hairdresser
might have envied had even he guessed they
lead been operated upon, turned away with a
tragic little wave of his fat, white belonged
hand, and spent the next half-hour trying to
determine whether flaxen locks suited his complexion
 or rather that with which he intended
to endow himself  better than the raven ones he
already possessed.

This, I may say, was a very difficult question,
and was only decided in favour of the former
-after the whole of the company had given their
voice in that way. But if the signor was willing
to disport himself for the glory of the show,
Madame Fourteenstone and the rest of the company
did not take such a romantic view of the
ease.

However, as we have seen, Mr Petman knocked

down all their objections with his famous argument,
and was so well satisfied with his own
-cleverness that, when Madame Petite suggested
that the time spent in changing from one costume
to another should be counted, he only told
lier very mildly to go and be blessed, and let the
remark remain unanswered. One or two timid
ladies next protested that they could not and
would not undertake to ride strange horses, but
were soon silenced, and advised that in all the
wonderful feats they had to perform all they had
to do was to stick on as gracefully as they could,
and leave the rest to the horses.

Two or three of the new features were then
run through, when those concerned found that,
provided they could follow the advice given them,
not quite as easy as it looked, they had nothing
to fear. The trained steeds performed their parts
with an unfailing precision which left nothing
to be desired. As regards new costumes, which
their double and triple duties demanded, the company
was bidden see what they could get from
the wardrobe ; but, as they knew of old, this
meant provide for yourself, which they accordingly
set about doing to the best of their ability
and tastes.

Altogether it was a pretty good morning's
work for every one, and not one of the company
but was glad there was to be no performance that
evening, but two on each of the days following,
and that meant work for some, if not all of
them ; not very hard work, you may say, so far

as actual physical exertion went, but there was
the dressing in draughty dressing-rooms  mere
sheds hastily thrown together  the waiting about
for one's turn, in costumes hardly designed for
out-doors, and then the "sticking" on as best
one could and trying to look as if one liked it.

And during all this hurry and bustle of preparations,
how had our friends fared?

Jerry was absent on some important mission
for " the boss," and only reached the ground just
as the company had at last received permission
to depart.

This they did with, you may be sure, the
greatest alacrity, and Jerry, having reported
himself to his master, did the same, taking with
him Smith, to stand the poor fellow, who was
quite knocked up, having been working like a
horse for nine hours without a rest, a good dinner.
Jerry had not been able to get so much as a sight
of Lisette all day, but as he and the groom turned
out of the gardens together, he saw before him
two figures which he recognised as those of the
ring-master and the little fancy rider.

Jerry did not even flinch at the sight  what
did they tell him more than he knew ?  but
trudged cm down the road as steadily as he
meant to trudge through life, quite content to
go his way alone, provided some one else was
happy.

And the couple in front went on theirs, Lisette
with her heart beating a thousand beats a minute,,
and her eyes full of that strangely beautiful light

which had betrayed her secret to her old friend,.
as she raised them shyly now and then to meet
the glances, daily increasing in boldness, of her
companion and countryman.

And he? With his thoughts he has alone the
right to deal  but though he spoke on ordinary
common-place subjects, looks and tones tell more
than any amount of words.

So he and Lisette walked along as they had
done very often lately, side by side down the
street, chatting gaily, at least Carl did ; Lisette,.
as was her wont at times, was rather shy and
silent.

As they turned the corner of the street and
paused, for only a few steps further on lay
Lisette's lodgings, a cab rattled by with some
luggage on the outside, while within was a lady,
who, happening to glance from the window,
noticed the young couple, and leaning forward,,
bowed graciously to them.

Carl Hermann lost the thread of what he was
saying  a quotation from a poem on *' Parting "
that he had lately been reading  and responded
by raising his hat with that peculiarly graceful
bend of his head which became him so
well.

"Who is your friend?" asked Lisette, following
with her eyes the retreating cab, and noting
absently that its occupant had leant forward so
as to gain a second view of her and her companion.


* Whoever trusts me in all things,' was the

reply, in the words of the poet of whom they had
been speaking. As he spoke Carl Hermann gave
the little unloved hand which reposed so confidingly
in his a slight pressure, which made the
foolish little heart throb, if possible, ten times
faster.

I meant who is the lady who gave you greeting?
" said Lisette, keeping her eyes fixed on the
pavement, an advised caution, for they would
sparkle in a manner which might have betrayed
the secret which as yet she scarcely knew she
possessed.

The lady  in the cab you mean % Don't you
know ? Ah, I forgot, she has not been with us
since you came. She is Miss Petman."

I seem to know her face, yet I have forgot
where I can have seen it."

Small wonder you cannot remember, little lisette,
when your foolish little heart gives such a
jump at the admission that someone remembers
how long it is since he first saw you ; small
wonder you cannot recall the face, for you have
only room for one in your silly little mind, and
that is one with clear-cut, regular features, unmistakably
handsome, and lit up by a pair of
clear grey eyes which can flash and grow soft and
tender so dangerously at times ; small wonder
when your heart is full of the almost incomprehensible
(such a child you are in your joy
as in your sorrow) happiness of the present
that you see no cloud stealing over the blue
sky  a cloud which in time may assume dimensions

such as you never dreamt of until the storm
broke.

But there, why should I, old raven that I am,,
be so ready to begin croaking?

There is time enough to talk of trouble when it
comes  do not let us meet it half-way.

THE GRAND HIPPODROME.

PROGRAMME.
Weather Permitting.

1. The famous Jelli and Boneless families in their wonderful

tumbling performance.

2. Equestrian quadrille and waltz by four ladies and four gentlemen

mounted on Signer Rostroni's thoroughbred horses 
clowns, Merry-ground and Jerry (especially engaged).

3. Indian race, by riders in costume, on bare-backed steeds.

4. Horizontal bar performance, by W. and H. Breakneck  clown,

Little Tomtit.

5. Flat race for ladies.

6. Miss Rosa Petman will exemplify the manege, or school of riding,

introducing her renowned highly-trained steed, " Daystar."

7. Madame Terrilli will introduce her troupe of French poodles,

whose performance has been witnessed by most of the
crowned heads of Europe.

8. Roman chariot race ; paif-s of the renowned Petman Arabs,

driven single-handed by ladies.

9. Little Jumbo, introduced by Patti.

10. Donkey race by clowns, Jerry, Tomtit, Merry-ground, and
Here-we-are-again.

Such was the programme set forth for the first
performance of the mighty hippodrome of the
People's Gardens.

In the ante-room various and great signs of preparation
made themselves apparent, and after so
many and startling announcements, public expectation
was even more than on tiptoe  some of
the audience, in point of fact, standing on the
highest elevation attainable, and at last the
crimson curtains, which had been freshly emblazoned
with gold lace and fringe, the initials
C P. displayed in dazzling brightness in the centre,
were parted by two black boys  their costumes
certainly " barbarous," only marred by the smallness
of the "negro" frizzy wig, which allowed a
little of the natural covering of the heads beneath
to become visible  to give entrance to four
heralds blowing a more than usually shrill blast
upon their silver trumpets, with the intent, no
doubt, to recall any wandering attention  if such
existed, which, judging from one sweeping glance
at the perfect sea of faces on all sides, did not
seem likely.

These heralds, their blasts successfully concluded,
having ranged themselves in couples on
either side of the entrance, the black boys again
drew aside the curtains, and the band  which,
had it not been for a slight confusion and mixture
of uniforms, might have passed for a real bond fide
military affair, engaged for the occasion  but perhaps
this same irregularity lent a glamour of
novelty to the whole, variety is charming  issued
forth playing with great gusto, " See the conquering
hero comes," and so playing made the tour
of the race-course with great dignity  which was

an outer circle outside the ring, ranged round
which were the reserved seats, beyond these the-course
already mentioned, and beyond this again
the raised free seats  sand then took their places
in the enclosure set apart for them.

Then from the ante-room came a cluster of ring
men and grooms, the former in new (to them)
costumes of high boots, white breeches, and scarlet
coats ; the latter for once in uniform groom attire ;
following them Mr Petman himself, in all the glory
and dignity of evening dress, advanced to receive
the acknowledgment of the audience  the self
complacent bearing of the man being sufficient to
assure the public that something good might be
expected. The manager having made his bow,,
retired; the visible management of the affair was
in the ring-master's hands, he seeming to ga
through his duties as though thoroughly used ta
the grandeur and display which was so imposing \
but everyone concerned knew well enough that
the ruling spirit was rampant in dress clothes in
the ante-room.

Firmly believing in the old proverb in this
instance, " If you want a thing done, do it yourself,"
Mr Petman proved himself a perfect magician
in the art of managing. He was here, there, and
everywhere; keeping his people in order, and
ruling everything and everybody with an iron hand.

There was no fear of him being " fooled " by
anyone he chose to trust ; he looked after them
too well for them to do anything but honestly by
him.

Now he was checking the tickets, now personally
arranging for the introduction of new seats, determined
to cover every inch of available space with
money ; and now mounting guard in the anteroom,
to see that every preparation had been
made that was necessary for the coming performance.


If ever a man worked for success it was Charles
Petman ; but yet, in spite of his exertions, when
he stepped into the ring in all the dignity of his
evening dress, white tie, and gloves, no one recognised
in him the infuriated little man who, only a
few moments before, had hunted about the poor
worried attendants, and taken such an active part
in the management of the whole concern. To the
audience he was all smiles and graciousness ; to
his company, no doubt overcome by the dignity
of the occasion, he was as savage as a bear 
although, to do them justice, there was not the
slightest occasion for him to have been so.

But he seemed to think an extra amount of
hard words and harder swearing became his position,
so therefore indulged in them rather more
freely than was his wont, which meant some
amount of work for his tongue, I can tell you.

Having made his bow to the audience, and
impressed them all as a most affable, 
manager, he vented his spite in the
ante-room on everybody that came within hearing,
because, owing to the press upon space, the audience
was somewhat late in getting settled.

Mr Petman having retired, there was silence for
VOL. I.

a few moments  long enough to raise curiosity to
the highest pitch  then at a given signal the
heralds announced some new feature; the black
boys had scarcely time to draw aside the curtains,
the band to strike up, than head over heels, handover
hand, like so many Catherine wheels, out
bounded eight agile figures, from two to six feet
in height, clad in blessings and trim satin tunics,
and in a moment the ring was the scene of " outside
in inside out," going upstairs, coming down
again, a new way of making a ladder, and suchlike
boneless performances, a perfect chaos of legs
and arms meeting one's gaze, till it seemed as if so
many windmills, and not human beings, disported
themselves before one's gaze.

Meanwhile the Jelli tumblers were going through
their performance in a manner which ought to have
put any manager in a good temper.

They occupied in a most creditable manner the
ten minutes allotted to them, though there being
two families together to make the " performance "
more imposing, this only counted as half that period
of time from a financial point of view  a fact which
made one doubtful whether the boneless beings
were not also devoid of sense to exert themselves
with so much apparent vigour for the very small
sum which would be all that would fall to their
share.

But the case was not as it appeared. Neither
of these very united families  who certainly deserved
the name for the determined way in which
they clung together  was a family at all.

The dear little fellows who aid their so-called
*' father" in his performance are merely sandy
little chaps he has picked up, or in some cases lads
offered to him to train in the way they should go
in the tumbling line, in every case apprentices
bound to him for a certain time, usually till they
are twenty-one, in which case, since the training,
if it is to begin at all, must do so at the early age
of six or seven, earlier if any special feat lately
discovered is to be the future acrobat's forte, it
will be seen the binding was no mere pretence.

As a rule, however, for this apprenticeship the
terms were not money down for training  in most
cases there was none to give  but owing to the
length of time the apprentice was bound, his keep
vas all he was allowed ; that, you may be sure,
meant a very nominal sum, hardly calculated to
inspire saving propensities, and until he reached
his twenty-first year his services were entirely at
his master's disposal.

Of course the "father" must be rewarded for
the trouble and time spent in training unruly
young limbs, but considering how unequal the
share of labour was, one would certainly imagine
he had the best of it.

The training once over, all the trainer had todo
was to introduce himself and family under a
new name to the tumbling world, to give the
performance the support of his presence, and now
and then the support of his massive figure to the
whole of the said family ; even this he only ventures
to do on grand occasions, for success is fatal

to sprightliness when one has been made in the
days of youth to study the art of denying oneself
for two reasons, one the necessity of keeping
agile, the other and all-sufficient one, inability to
afford luxuries, another advantage of the agreement
; and once freed from the hateful bond, it is
little wonder so many promising votaries of the
ring sink into the happy oblivion of an enlarged
liver and such like corpulency.

Thus the " father," having long since given up
earning a livelihood for other people, had evidently
taken the same view of the matter as most
of his fellows, and now determined to do as he
was done by  make others support him.

To this end he set up his family, which somehow,
had any one noted the fact, never seemed to
grow up. No sooner had one member attained
bis majority than there was some little unfortunate
ready to take his place, and at the daily
performance only gave it the dignity of his presence,
and while, with a skill worthy of a better
cause, deceiving the spectators into the belief that
he alone deserved their applause, acknowledged
it with a graciousness which rather added to than
diminished the delusion.

In the present instance, the occasion of the first
performance in the Gardens, it was comical to see
how each head of either family claimed, from force
of habit, the loud appreciation of the antics of
their various offspring, and on leaving the ring it
was at first a question of who should have the
last bow, had it not been for the fact that Jack

the youngest tumbler, aged two years and a half,
failed to make a success of his exit, that is, broke
down in his wheel ; the poor lad, indeed all his
brothers too, were rendered by their exertions
-SO unison in the face that a general attack of
apoplexy seemed more than probable, unless, as
seemed likely on Jack's part, he was a victim to
his father's rage at his disgraceful failure in his
wheel, which led that worthy to forego the honour
of a last stately bow, in order to ensure the capture
of the unfortunate Jack before he had time
to make good his escape.

That little slip  in reality due to a shabby trick
of one of the elder lads, who, only the week
before, had been in disgrace for having twice
essayed to get upstairs, and, in spite of the encouragement
very kindly bestowed by the generous
audience upon his efforts, becoming so nervous
that the feat had to be abandoned  meant two
hours' practice for the poor little youngster, who,
at the age when most lads are allowed to run
about by themselves, was so resolutely made to
learn that there were other uses for arms and legs
than those to which they were put by ordinary
mortals.

In spite of this slight mishap, which did not
escape the vigilant eye of the manager  his remarks
on the subject not by any means likely to
make the unhappy little tumbler's punishment of
a lighter kind  the tumbling was pronounced a
great success.

A moment's breathing time was allowed, and

then the trumpets sounded forth once more, and
out from the ante-room dashed the riders where
to form the equestrian quadrille : the ladies
in sweeping robes of various-coloured velvet, profusely
trimmed with fur, in imitation of Russian
style; the gentlemen in costumes to correspond
a novel feature specially devised for the occasion.


The effect was very pretty, the band playing-gaily,
and the well-trained horses going through
all the figures of the dance with an ease, grace,
and docility which won well-merited applause.

It looks very easy," as more than one spectator
remarked, "but, lor', it must have taken a
lifetime to have got into the way of that."

But then you see they did not know how the
trick was done, and evinced the greatest delight
when the dancers backed their steeds from the
ring and disappeared from view.

During this performance two clowns had quietly
made their way round the outside of the ring and
seated themselves on the ledge close together,
paying the most marked attention to every movement
of the dancers, applauding loudly between
the figures, much to the amusement of all the
youngsters and, indeed, many of the old folks
among the audience. At the close of the last
figure, however, of the quadrille some dispute
arose, and the two moved apart between every
interval of their frantic applause, moving a fc
steps farther until, as a natural consequence, but
apparently to their own surprise, they came-into

collision opposite the spot whence they
started.

The abruptness of this meeting caused a sharp
dispute, which was interrupted by the equestrian
dancers' exit, whereupon the two became friends
and discussed the art of dancing, one of them
loudly regretting his inability to trip it on the
light fantastic toe, to which the other made
answer, " It was truly strange that horses could
dance so well and set a donkey could not make
one step." This, again, led to a squabble and a
fight, which was interrupted by the interference
of one of the ring men.

He called the two to order, and when they both
began loudly giving him their side of the story, to
quiet them he proposed that one should teach his
companion to dance. This it was agreed should
be done, but the pupil persisted he wanted to
learn to dance like a lady. So a portmanteau
was produced, with the contents of which he
effected a complete transformation. A green silk
skirt with a long sweeping train was slipped over
his head ; a white garibaldi, with a red and gold
Zouave jacket, took the place of a bodice ; the
whole completed by a fair wig, the long flaxen
curls of which, crowned by a mass of artificial
flowers, hung to the waist, and were coquettishly
arranged over one shoulder.

Thus attired, the master led his pupil into the
middle of the ring, and began initiating him 
I mean her  in the art of step-dancing, curtsey-making,
and such like.

As may be guessed, the attempt was hardly
successful. The fair danseuse found the long train
of her robe considerably in her way, and in her
frantic attempts to imitate her teacher and make
a graceful curtsey, her feet frequently became
entangled, and a fall was the only result. By-and-bye,
however, by dint of great perseverance,
she began to improve, and straightway desired
her master to find her a partner; she meanwhile
seated herself, simpering and gushing behind her
fan.

The partner was produced in the shape of a
dummy dressed like one of the ring men. He
was led, or rather dragged, up to the lady, boaster
a good deal of simpering and excusing
herself, was at last induced to accept his offer
to dance.

Then followed some fun at the young lady
objecting to the gentleman's arm being placed
round her waist.

Oh no, I aren't. He mustn't do it. Mamma's
be so angry if she knew it. Oh no, please don't."

At length, however, this objection was overruled,
and the pair started.

Roars of laughter echoed on all sides as the
gentleman continually lost his balance and had
to be restored to a perpendicular position by
the master. Then the lady again found her
train impede her progress, until it was proposed
to tuck it up round her waist, to which proposition
she joyfully assented. And now the dance
began in earnest.

Inspired with the idea of distinguishing herself,
the lady seized her partner round the waist and
whirled him round the room in a mazy waltz,
until it seemed hardly possible the dummy could
survive the test whole.

The end was beyond description, but it was
a very breathless, panting clown, who, with a
torn skirt, wig all awry, and one of the dummy's
arms wrenched from its socket and still clasped
round his waist, responded to a perfect roar of
applause by appearing to curtsey no less than
four times.

The performance could hardly be described as
graceful, refined, or instructive ; but, as Mr Pet-man
argued, it pleased the audience, and that
was sufficient reason for giving it.

And certainly he was right as far as the gratification
of the spectators was concerned  it was
just the sort of thing they liked. Indeed, they
would have insisted on its repetition had it not
been for the ring-master signalling to the heralds
to announce the next item on the programme,
who appeared in the shape of the North American
Indians, whose make-up and costumes certainly
did them much credit.

Ranged in a line at the starting-post, there
seemed to be but little difference between them,
and much fun was occasioned, bets being made
as to how many "riders" would safely reach
the goal.

This conjecture was not ill-founded, for the
steeds were bestrode bare-backed and without

any sort of bridle or harness whatever  nothing
all to catch hold of.

This truly appeared a case of "sticking on""
but before the first round of the ring was made
two riders had given up the attempt, contenting
themselves with limping back to the starting-post
amidst the jeers and laughter of the audience.
From the moment of the start, however,,
there was no doubt about the winner ; a splendid
grey horse, whose rider seemed to be stuck on
rather than stick to his back, tore along the
ground at a pelting pace, leaving his companions
far behind. This triumph the jockey 
he it was  seemed to take very coolly, not at
all sharing in the general excitement which
signalled his success  for put him on his well-known
"Daredevil," and there was very little
chance to any one else of coming in first  the
horse went like the wind when his master chose,,
while it was the general opinion in the company
that the jockey could have stuck on a " greased
pig," as Merry-ground not too gracefully expressed
it. So his companions merely contested
for the place of second.

The ring servants made great preparations for
the next item on the programme, with the show
and bustle with which these officials usually go
about their work  a trait in their character
seemingly assumed with their liveries.

In a few moments the horizontal bar was
erected, and to the usual announcement of a
flourish of trumpets, the Breakneck brothers,.

gorgeously, if slightly, clad in scarlet and gold,
made their appearance.

They were fine, strapping young fellows, and
well up to their business.

Their turn over, the trumpets again sounded,,
and for the ladies' flat race six ladies mounted
on Signor Patchouli's well-trained steeds made
their appearance.

The riders were dressed in white cotton habits,
with coloured jackets and jockey caps to distinguish
them  red, light and dark blue, yellow, greens
pink, violet, and mauve  the effect, as they held
their steeds reined up at the starting-post, being
very pretty indeed.

This racing was quite a novelty to both racers
and spectators, and not a little excitement was
evinced on both sides as to who should win this,,
the first competition.

One or two meant merely to follow the manager's
advice and " stick on," thinking that would
be quite sufficient ; but some few of the others,,
as they heard on all sides surmises as to who
would really come off victorious, and not a few
daring bets being made first on one colour and
then on the other, sat well back and held the
reins well in hand.

One rider, on a beautiful but rather fiery-looking
brown horse, pronounced by those of the spectators
who presumed to be able to judge the best
of the bunch, seemed especially to delight in her
work.

She wore a scarlet jacket, the bright colour of

which suited her clear complexion well ; and not
 few of the mankind among the audience, especially
those in the free seats near the starting-post,
decided that she made a very pretty picture, with
her round childish face, deep brown eyes, dimpled
cheeks, and soft curly brown hair falling from
under the trim little jockey hat.

In fact, Fraulein Lisette Hartzman, " red " as
she was announced on the programme, heard her
colour being pitted not a little freely against the
rest, and though she tried hard to look unconcerned,
a bright colour burnt in her cheeks, and
the brown eyes sparkled dangerously.

Nor did either of these grow dim when, as the
riders waited for the start, the groom holding the
horse's head whispered to her some directions
about keeping to the inside of the circle if possible,
for which she thanked him with a smile
which made a warm flush of pleasure flood the
ugly scarred face of her adviser ; nor when one of
the ring men, hastily arranging his necktie as he
issued from the tent  a very quick change that
for one who did not profess to be " quick " at anything
 but the young clown, for it was the fair
dancer of a few moments before once more transformed,
this time into a nearer approach to a
rational being, made his way to her side, nodded
cheerily to her, arranged her habit more gracefully,
and in his turn appeared to question the
groom concerning the fastening. The " red " rider
seemed to re-assure him, and then he turned away
to assist one of the other ladies who had been less

well looked after than her companion ; her stirrup
being so long and she being somewhat short and
stout, it seemed a matter of question whether, far
from coming in first in the race, she would even
be able to " stick on."

While assisting the lady to aught that the
stirrup might be shortened, the clown's place was
taken by the young ring-master, considered by
the female portion of the audience as far handsomer
than any man in the audience (this in
return for the favour shown to the scarlet-jacketed
lady jockey), a tall, slight-figured young fellow
distinguished from those under him by the gilt
star he wore and the long whip in his hand.

Playing with this, he stood patting the horse
upon which the favourite lady jockey rode, she
bending her head to catch what he said, he looking
up at her with looks which spoke more than all
his words.

He seemed to be asking for a sprig of geranium
which she wore at her throat, and she in return
shyly tendering him one blossom, which he
fastened in his coat, an act which made the
betting in favour of the giver run up to a neat
little sum, and he trying to extract some promise.

I will come with you if I win."

I am not afraid to show my colour then"'
returned the young ring-master, adding, in a low
undertone which made one inquisitive about words
which would otherwise have been totally meaningless,
" You will win the race, as you have my
heart."

*' Have I done so ? " was the shy question.

Is it possible I could help surrendering? You
do not know yourself or you would not question
Avhat I say. You doubt me ! "

"Vein, vein, it is not so, truly ! "

You are too good to say so." Then, lower
still, " One day I will prove to you what I say."

At this moment the last racer was got in the
line, and Jerry drew on one side, hardly at the
time knowing how deeply those few words, the
first of the kind he had overheard, had impressed
themselves on his memory, to be recalled when
he would have given worlds to have forgotten
them.

The ring-master also drew on one side, fired the
pistol, and away went the racers.

The circle of the ring was to be made twice,
but long before the round was half made the
whole audience was on their feet, eagerly cheering
and encouraging those whose colours they had
chosen.

"Light blue's first!" "Yellow's the girl forme
! " " I'm on green ! " " Dark blue for ever ! "
Go it, pink I " " Bravo, red ! "

This last at length overtopped all, coupled with
that of yellow  our old friend Madame Petite  who
iso, I may say in confidence, had been promised
some treat by her admirer, George Epsom, provided
she distinguished herself during the day.

The little French lady was in high spirits, and
although not having so many cavaliers to look
after her welfare as her German friend, had yet

the advantage of all the rest (save the " red ") in
the remembrance of the same promise in being
by far the lightest weight, and having besides a
knowledge of riding which her companions did
not possess.

Her one rival, then, was Lisette, and, as it soon
appeared, a formidable one.

After the first round, as has been seen, these
two distanced the rest  the race, in fact, lying
between them, the others keeping up a show for
the sake of appearances.

Yellow having been placed on the inner side,
had naturally an advantage of red, who was on
the very outside edge ; but acting on the groom's
good-natured hint, made early efforts to improve
her position. This she succeeded in doing, only,
however, to find Madame Petite fully a yard in
front of her, and so great was the distance that
the case seemed hopeless ; but as her supporters
soon saw, the scarlet jockey did not mean to surrender
until really defeated : she pressed her steed
forward determinedly, every effort being greeted
with applause and cries from those who claimed
lier colours, but at first to little purpose : the little
Frenchwoman was equally resolute. Nearer and
nearer came the winning-post, where a little crowd
of ring men and grooms eagerly watched the contest.


"Yellow keeps the lead ! Red's gaining, though !
Look, another six inches! Bravo yellow, you'll
do it easy ! Let her go, red ; she'd win, I'd lay a
wager, if the girl 'd only give her her head I You

leave her be for knowing what she's up to. There
I told you so ! By Jove ! neat Httle bit, wasn't it?
Held him in so as to let the other woman waste
her horse, then gave him a little tickling with the
whip, and shot past the post easy as greased lightning
 the other woman nowhere. Bravo, bravo,,
red ! plucky girl ! She cam ride. That's the sort
of girl for me ! Bravo ! Amid such loudly-uttered
exclamations the pretty little scarlet - jacketed
jockey won the race  verifying the ring-master's
assertion, as Jerry thought sadly, even as he
answered the victorious racer's gay nod with a
smile and cheery " bravo," and then drew aside tolet
others offer their congratulations.

It was a pretty sight to see the winner skim by
the post with an ease and grace many a boasted,
trained rider might have envied, and then rein ina
few yards beyond and allow the groom Smith,,
his face positively aglow with delight, to lead her
to the easily-gained front, there, amidst the cheer
of the audience and fellow professionals  indeed,,
of all who had witnessed her little manoeuvre  to
receive the whips of her vanquished sisters.

This little ceremony the winner seemed to be
willing to forego, but Mr Petman had ordered that
it should be gone through, and from his position
in the ante-room he watched with his eagle eye
to see that all his directions were faithfully carried
out. All the same, Lisette hung back a little ; but
the young master, pushing Smith on one side,,
himself led her horse forward, and took the whips
one by one from her as she received them with a

half deprecating bend of her head, to be returned
by her on the morrow, prior to the commencement
of the same race, thus to take the form of a challenge,
and point out the winner of the day before.
A pretty little ceremony, so gracefully yet simply
was it arranged, thought all the spectators. All?
No, not all  all save one.

That one a tall, fine-looking girl who, clad in a
plain velvet habit and beaver hat, stood within,
the ante-room talking to Mr Petman, with whoni
she was apparently on very familiar terms.

She was a stranger to the show, and evidently
by her bearing not one of those pressed into the
service, or belonging to it for glory's sake ; for
there was an unmistakable air of hauteur  more
correctly, I think I should say swagger  about
her which, though it did not suit her fine figure
badly, stamped her at once as some one who had
no low opinion of herself and capabilities.

She had watched the race with a lazy interest,.
and smiled superciliously as she watched the defeated
racers approach to surrender their whips,
but became so much interested as to advance a
step or two, in order to get a better view when
the young ring-master himself led the victorious-jockey
to receive the acknowledgment of her
companions' defeat.

This done, Lisette would have retired with the-rest,
but was so loudly applauded that Mr Petman
hastily sent word that she had better make the
tour of the ring in acknowledgment.

This she did, riding at a sharp trot, bowing on
VOL. I. P

either side and smiling gaily, completing the conquest
she had begun  indeed, having won the
race, succeeding in winning all hearts.

If the little German girl had wanted a cavalier
to take her to see the fireworks later on in the
day, and not have been "particular" in who or
what he was, she might have had at least a score ;
but as it was, even had she not been as she was,
" particular," that is, never by any chance allowing
herself to accept attentions from strangers,
a practice of which she had a deep-rooted horror,
though all her companions were not so inclined 
indeed openly laughed at her " silliness " in losing
a chance of having fun, but in secret looking
upon her as not a little superior to themselves ;
even, I say, had she not been " particular," as it
was, she did not want a cavalier, being already
provided.

Had she not won the race ? That, according to
her promise made a few moments before, meant
that she was going to allow herself a little quiet
enjoyment with an old friend, who, in token of
her promise, was to receive the flower lie had
hitherto been refused.

Why did not Jerry then press forward? I suppose
he knew, but he certainly made no attempt
to take up his usual office, but, seeming determined
to be busy, hastened into the ante-room to see
after the Breaknecks' appliances.

Meanwhile the scarlet jockey had completed her
tour of the ring, and once more the young ring-master's
hand was on her horse's bridle as he ledit,

amidst one deafening cheer from winners and
losers, all alike charmed by the fairness of the
rider, into the ante-room.

Yes, Lisette looked indeed very fair, very sweet ;
-she had indeed charmed all hearts, although in
those few steps before the ante-room was gained
the artiste was deaf to all applause, deaf to all
sounds but the whisper in her ear of soft endearing
Avoids, doubly sweet because they were uttered in
her own language.

She had been shyly delighted before, but now
she dare not even move her eyes from the whip
which she held ; she dared not, with those words
in her ears, meet the glance of those deep-grey
eyes which were raised so earnestly to her face,
drinking in greedily the sweetness of the face
above. Full of thoughts which yet she dared not
understand until the lips which gave them utterance
in words, which, though the flattery in which
they wasted precious moments was sweet, should
be more than all the praises of lier beauty and
fairness, nothing beside the proof he had said he
would give that he was true. True, that meant
* true to himself, and that to everything a man
should be ; " that was how little Lisette interpreted
the word, for though they had been friends
so long, these two compatriots, one at least did
not guess what Jerry already knew, and she did
not put the same meaning on the words as did the
heart that beat so " truly " in her cause ; she did
not know that there could be words sweeter to
her ears than those which told her some one

thought she was beautiful. He had said so often
before, although she had protested it was not true
it was not right of him to tell fibs  but never
80 "fervently," almost passionately, as to-night,
words. which told her that some one was pleased
with her  very, very pleased.

Well, and was not everyone in that vast throng
exerting themselves to convince her that they
concurred in the judgment? Ah, yes ! but then 

Why was it at this point Lisette always came
to a full stop, and began a fresh sentence? So,
then, she was more than satisfied with her triumph,
and as the curtains of the ante-room closed behind
her, she waited for a moment before dismounting,
as though loath to think the pleasure all over,,
while Smith, the groom, stood by with a rather
sulky look on his face, which it was hard to
understand.

The poor fellow had been the little fancy rider's
devoted slave, for though, as his comrades affirmed,
he was not quite right in his head," he had sense
enough to look upon the only woman in the world
who had ever deigned to speak kindly to him a&
something little short of an angel, and to devote
himself to her with a slavish adoration which even
Jerry himself could not have equalled. Weak as
his intellect was, there was yet one firmly-fixed,
point in his mind, and that was that he owed his-life
to the little fancy rider, for he verily believed
that in his rage the jockey would have struck him
dead, and though more than once before that event
he had been heard to wish he were dead and buried

that is, out of the way of the ill-treatment which
he received on all sides  he seemed now to be
quite content to live, that he might be of service
to his benefactor.

His love, if such it may be called, was that of a
dog for his master, but, all the same, one other
instance of the charm which little Lisette exercised
over those around her.

There was one strange thing about the groom 
he seemed to have conceived a sort of canine dislike
to the young ring-master ; why, it was impossible
to tell, for the young German had never
harmed him by look or deed, yet, all the same, a
keen observer might have noted the look of suspicion
and distrust which settled on his ugly face
as Carl Hermann took his place by Lisette's side.
Jerry alone had noticed it once before during the
day, but had put it down to the poor wretch's
dislike to anyone rendering his little mistress a
service besides himself, though, to be sure, the
look was never there when Jerry undertook the
office. But there, there was no accounting for
likes and dislikes, especially in a brain like poor
Smith's.

So, unconscious of any disagreeable impression
that he had created, the young ring-master lingered
long by Lisette's side.

Thus, as between this race and the next feature
was an interval of five minutes, during which time
the officials retired into the ante-room, where, asa
joker in the free seats informed his neighbours,
it was "just a treat to see the old chap in the

evening toggery rounding on 'em," about something
which had not gone exactly as he wished
the men, however, seemingly quite used to the
process, and receiving the harangue like lambs ;
to see one of the grooms doing his best to keep in
order the clever French poodles, who were yelping
and snapping in fine style, their mistress, a fat
ugly woman, gaudily dressed, putting the finishing
touches to her make-up at the glass ; two
clowns vigorously practising a new trick in one
corner, with a sober earnestness which rendered
their comicality doubly droll, and would make a
big hit if they allowed it to take the place of the
bounce and bluster which usually make their fun
lose its point; and one of the late lady-riders,
assisted to dismount by one of the ring men, the
horse led away by a groom, who seemed to take
great pride in it, while the rider stood for some
moments conversing with her cavalier, he delaying
her so long that the heralds had already announced
the end of the interval before the two seemed
aware how time was flying.

Even then, they seemed loath to return to their
duty, and although one of the grooms led forward
a splendid roan, and the tall fine-looking girl ina
velvet habit and beaver hat stood waiting for
some one to help her to mount, it was not until
she had glanced round more than once that the
tete-astute was broken up, and the young fellow
with a parting nod to his companion, turned in
her direction. But when he proffered his help
she coldly declined it, and putting one hand on.

the groom's shoulder sprang lightly into the
saddle.

The next moment the attendants flocked into
the ring, the band struck up, and at a pretty good
pace the young lady followed them.

Her performance, though hardly as exciting as
those which preceded it, was nevertheless a very
interesting one, and the complete power she had
over her very high-spirited steed, won her well-deserved
applause.

In obedience to a touch of her hand on its
bridle, the well-trained animal marched and
waltzed in time to the music, stood on three
legs pawing the air with the fourth, knelt and
pirouetted, jumped hurdles and formed a circle,
keeping its fore feet crossed, then going out into
the race course, leapt a hastily-erected hedge and
supposed brook of considerable breadth with a
neatness that was enthusiastically applauded.

But the crowning feat of all was when, backing
the animal towards the ante-room, the girl caused
it to rear repeatedly, pawing the air with its forefeet,
she retaining her seat the while as easily as
though the repeated plunges had not made it a
matter of the greatest difficulty.

Madame Terrilli's performance was hardly as
great a success as the rest of the programme.
The trainer herself was by no means a very
attractive-looking lady, added to which, the
French poodle had been somewhat overdone.
The public wanted something fresh, and a regular
army of elephants, monkeys, and even cats, were

entering the field and dealing death-blows to the
once highly-lauded poodles' chances.

But for the announcement that almost all the
crowned heads in Europe had watched the antics
of the yelping curs, it is doubtful if they would
have been received at all ; as it was, the audience
was in too good a temper to do anything but
tolerate what they did not certainly appreciate.

Following Madame Terrilli's bow, the appearance
of the Roman chariots caused great excitement.


These were big, rather clumsy-looking concerns,
somewhat resembling the new-fashioned
milk carts ; the bottom of the car being but a few
inches from the ground ; the wheels, of considerable
size, rising level with the sides ; the fronts
slightly bowed, with a cushion along the inner
side, for the driver of course to stand in the car
in real Roman fashion, and one pole only being
used.

They were gaudily painted and filled in a
somewhat modern style, while to each was harnessed
a pair of horses which, unused to having
such cumbersome vehicles in their wake, fidgeted
uneasily as the grooms held them in the required
line. It seemed hardly probable that women
should undertake the not very easy task of piloting
these chariots  for in the narrow space there
was great danger of getting the wheels locked, to
say nothing of the dangers to which unruliness on
the part of one charger might expose the others.

Nevertheless the race was put down as one for

ladies, and these soon made their appearance, four
in number, and clad in loose flowing garments,
presumedly in imitation of the matrons they represented.
Two of them, a slight-figured girl and
a rather oldish woman, were talking earnestly as
they issued from the ante-room, and on reaching
Ie starting-post, before taking her place, the
former, in spite of protestations on the part of the
groom, assisted her companion into the chariot
nearest the inner circle, drawn by two fine black
and dark brown horses, reserving for herself that
to which were harnessed two by no means so prepossessing
in appearance.

The result was the winning of the race by the
black and brown pair, when the young girl, who
was only able to urge her steeds into a very feeble
gallop, and even then came in last of all, only
smiled gaily at the jeers of the audience, who
seemed somehow to have expected more of her,
and while owning her defeat by surrendering her
whip to the winner, appeared to congratulate her
heartily, and refuse to listen to a word of depreciation.


For at first, the little old woman  for such she
appeared in spite of the yellow wig, paint and
powder, which the broad daylight showed up so
plainly  seemed inclined to be discontented about
her victory, until one of the ring men, whom the
audience recognised as the winner of the Indian
race, leant over the railings and spoke to her.

A flush, visible even under the artificial bloom,
rose to her face, and when in acknowledgment of

the applause she made the circle of the race-cours
alone, she urged the horses to a fine pace, and
made the clumsy chariot thunder along over the
uneven ground in fine style.

The tricks of Little Jumbo came next, and following
these the four clowns ran their race in a
manner which elicited roars of laughter.

To begin with, the jockeys seemed many size
too big for their steeds, their feet almost touching
the ground.

In spite of this, however, two of them were
unable to retain their seats even by grasping their
steeds tightly round the neck, the result of which
manoeuvre was to send them  much to the amusement
of the spectators  head over heels over the
animals' heads. Two were thus served, but the
remaining couple went steadily on their way, and
all went well, until the leader suddenly exhibited
to the full his oft-quoted propensity for having his
own way.

He resolutely refused to stir in spite of all
efforts, and his master with many gestures of dismay
saw his rival gaining steadily on him.

In vain he pulled, dragged, and even pushed it
the obstinate animal refused to stir ; but, just
when all hopes of his ever being induced to stir
another step seemed gone, his would-be rider
seemed seized with a sudden idea. Diving into
the depths of his voluminous trousers pocket he
produced and triumphantly held aloft a fine caiTot
which he had evidently secured in case of an
emergency. Seizing his obstinate steed's bridle

he held the bribe a few inches from its nose, and
as the animal was keenly alive to the desirableness
of the reward offered, he very quickly followed
in its wake, reaching the winning-post
amidst the laughter and applause of the audience.

With this little incident the show ended ; but,
so successful was it pronounced that the committee
men personally congratulated Mr Petman,
who set to work to make room for nearly a hundred
more seats in the monster tent already prepared
for the evening performance.

Of this there is no need to give any details save
that in every sense it was a success. Audience
and performers were in high spirits, especially tha
latter. The signor, whose " act " had been most
enthusiastically received, and many most gratifying
remarks upon his personal appearance falling
upon his ears and making him so extremely vain
that, after having been, it was asserted, exactly
two hours and a-half donning his wonderful Apollo
dress, he was found by one of the grooms when
the performance was all over  his turn had come
at the end of the first part  attitudinising before
his dressing-glass, completely oblivious of how the
time was going.

It was declared by some that even then he
could not be induced to return to his ordinary and
less becoming clothes, but spent the Avhole night
in the dressing-room, walking up and down ready
for the next day's performance. He dare not lie
down for fear of disarranging his wonderful costume,
or lest he should rub some of the peach

bloom from his carefully made-up cheeks. But
this was only a tale, for was there not a very
pretty little girl in the sixpenny seats on the left-hand
side of the entrance whose rather outspoken
admiration had reached the handsome Apollo's
ears ?

Even while performing the somewhat difficult
feat of retaining his balance upon one bare-backed
.steed while he drove half-a-dozen others at a
furious rate round the arena, the delighted artist
bad time to reply to the remarks, not, of course,
intended for his ears, by a look and a gesture
which resulted in the confounding of all stories
concerning the time he was dressing, for, much in
love with his appearance as he was, could any
gentleman break a so charmingly made appointment
with a pretty girl who was going to wait at
the entrance of the sixpenny seats when the performance
was over %

Ah ! what a wonderful language is that of the
eye, and what a perfect master of it was our friend
the little horse-trainer; how very charming the
pretty girl, not a bit shy or stupid  I should think
not  and how the pair of them enjoyed the grand
display of fireworks which concluded a day the
success of which had in a great measure been due
io the very meritorious management of all things
connected with the circus.

Yes, the signer enthusiastically exclaimed that
the day had been most delightful ; but he was not
the only one of our friends who did so. Little
Lisette had been very happy, as she told herself

when she returned home after the grand display
of fireworks, which she had witnessed from a
carefully-selected position, a little apart from the
rest of the crowd, from whence she had a splendid
view of all that passed.

But I do not think that it was the fireworks
that Lisette enjoyed so much, indeed she scarcely
knew why she enjoyed those days at all until 
until  why do I pause? The truth must come
out sooner or later ; but there, I have been running
away from my subject for some time, because
I have something to tell which I am unwilling to
relate. It is useless to turn coward any longer,,
so let me out with the truth at once. It seems tome
that I have reached the centre of my tale ; the
second part had best begin in the next chapter.

WHAT HAPPENED NEXT.

At some length  for which I apologise most sincerely
to my readers, at the same time promising
for the future to try and prevent my pen from
running away with me  I have said that my hero,
as by courtesy I call him, on finding that, as he
expressed it, he had missed his turn, determined
if not to wait and hope, at least to wait and see
what would happen next.

And what did happen was, as it is in most such
-cases, hardly what he expected.

For the first time in his life, while under an
engagement  a fact which Jerry always affirmed
must have been ordered by the adverse fates 
he was disabled, that is, unable to appear as
usual, much to the annoyance of the worthy
manager, who was thus deprived of one of his
most able assistants, the dancing-lesson being
accounted among the most attractive features
of the show, which promised, I may say, to fulfil
even the most sanguine hopes entertained of it.

The accident, if so it may be called, happened

in this way. Jerry had owned to himself that
hitherto he had wasted (?) far more precious
moments than was necessary in the ante-room
off the ring, both before and after his performance.
He acknowledged that it had been wasted
now, though formerly, had any one so much as
suggested the idea, he would have scouted it
with the greatest indignation. Now, however,
things were different to what they were. For
the future he determined to be merely up to
time, though he owned to himself that he should
sadly miss the stolen chats in which he had
formerly indulged.

"Ah, well," he said, when he reviewed the
matter in his own matter-of-fact way, "if I
shall miss them, she won't, so there is no cause
for me to grumble. I've had my chance and
lost it."

And with this very sage, and at the same
time unselfish piece of reasoning, the matter
was settled.

This resolution, however, he found easier to
make than to enforce. On the day of the opening
of the show, as we have seen, he kept it
with great determination, but on the day following,
purely from absent-mindedness and force of
habit, he made his way into the ante-room sometime
before his presence there was absolutely
necessary. In the tent he found Lisette, apparently
none the worse, indeed, to Jerry, looking
all the more gay and smiling, for her gaiety of
the night before.

She also was somewhat before her time, for
the lady-rider had but just commenced her turn,
the introduction to the public of her renowned
steed, "Day star," who, by-the-bye, had, on entering
the ring, plainly shown himself to be, well, not
in the best of moods, although he might have
known from experience that such a display would
bring him no good. Be he in a good or bad
temper, he had a spirit on his back as equally"
determined as himself, and a skilled hand on his
rein which knew how to let him feel his mistress's
power. Under these circumstances, it
certainly behoved " Daystar " not to attempt any
little tricks on his owt account.

Meanwhile, in the ante-room, Lisette greeted
her old friend in her usual cheery manner, and
ere long he found himself chatting away just
as he thought to himself with a smile which
was not all merriment  as he had done in the
old times, the said "old" times being separated
from the " new " by one short month.

Not for long, however, was he allowed to enjoy
this rather questionable pleasure ; after a few moments
he heard a step behind him and knew, so
keen-sighted had he become all at once, by the
sudden light which glanced into the brown eyes,
which, even while they had danced so merrily in
answer to his sallies, had ever and anon wandered,
all unbidden by their owner, in the direction of
the curtained entrance  knew only too well that
some one " was nigh.

Nor was he wrong.

The young ring-master, for he it was, nodded
carelessly in answer to our hero's unusually hearty
salutation, then greeted his companion with some
low words in their own tongue.

Jerry all of a sudden wished himself " further,"
as he phrased it, and was seeking about vaguely
in his own mind for an excuse to dissolve the trio
into a duet, which he knew would be more agreeable
to all concerned, when something occurred
which led to far more serious consequences than
one would have dreamed of at the time.

Feeling somewhat de trop, as he would have
expressed it had he understood French, which he
didn't  though, to be sure, he often wished he
understood another sort of gibberish, as he called it
in a half-angry, half-joking way, and then gave himself,
both figuratively and literally speaking, a good
shake, accompanying the same with an admonition
which he had very frequently administered of late,,
relative to his not talking nonsense,  as I have
said, feeling, if not being able to express the sentiment
in words, owing to his having received a
very defective education (a fact which he had
lately commenced to regret most sincerely), that
he was not exactly the right man in the right
place, Jerry drew gradually on one side, with a
view to making his escape altogether as soon as
an opportunity presented itself.

Meanwhile, once more, for the second time,
some words which passed between the couple at
his side reached his ears, to be treasured up unconsciously
with other little pieces of evidence
VOL. I. Q

which by-and-by he would have given worlds not
to have possessed.

The two spoke in English this time, so that
he had no cause now to wish he could understand
" gibberish." After some inquiries as to
how she felt after her gaiety of the night before,
made with a solicitude which the relations between
the two seemed to warrant, the ring-master
pressed some new favour upon Lisette, which she
at first archly refused. It was only a request
which she had often granted before, and by the
young German's manner it was easy to see he
paid no account to her withholding her consent
at first  he knew well that for a little while she
would make the prettiest show of rebellion in the
world, at least so one onlooker called it, but in
the end would surrender in the most childlike,
innocent way possible.

Why, twenty times already the same little farce
had been acted, and each time with the same result.

AVith a humility which no doubt to Lisette
made his homage doubly fascinating, because of
his usually haughty bearing, Carl would beg permission
to present her with some flowers, as
though not willing to press his gifts unless they
were acceptable, asking what she would like best,
in order that he might be sure to please her.

Lisette, little innocent that she was, would protest
that he should not waste his money upon her,
adding all sorts of excuses intended to support
her own argument, but, as a rule, only tending to
give strength to the opposite one, because of one

all-powerful piece of reasoning which, apparently,
the young German Alas not too haughty to accept,
completely ignoring the fact that it required far
more courage to do this than to act without permission
in all those minor offices put together
about which he expressed himself so diffident.

But there, I suppose with Jerry that this far
weightier matter had long ago been signed, sealed,
and settled, and this little ceremony about the
flowers was only one of the many little tricks and
artifices which are used in order that the course
of love may not be unbroken, if so tiny a break
scan be counted, for judging by the rule of contrary,
no love that is " smooth " can be " true."
(I know one person who would have been very
much inclined to doubt the truth of this statement,
had any one ventured to suggest it to him).

Anyhow, Lisette, as I have said, seemed to
firmly believe in it, and the young ring-master
had to use many and powerful arguments before
he could gain permission to do as he wished.

This, however, he always managed to do, and
the end of it was, Lisette would appear at the
next performance with some of her chosen flowers
nestling in the bosom of her dress, the same to be
carefully treasured, with many others gradually
becoming dry and withered in the faded satin
case which had once contained a sweet tribute of
affection " from a friend," as was notified in the
lid, the said tribute being in the shape of half-around
or so of chocolate creams.

On the day, therefore, of which I write, as Jerry

listened half-unconsciously to what passed, when
all else had failed to enhstthe required permission,
a low, whispered remark which he did not catch
made the warm colour flush into Lisette's face as
she suddenly turned her laughing gaze from that
of her companion, her eyes seeking the floor once
more to hide the treacherous sparkle which might
have given her questioner an answer for which he
had not yet asked  fool that he was to delay, when
the reply would have been given so willingly.

All the response that Lisette's lips framed was
in a suddenly-grown shy tone, which to Jerry told
the tale some one else was so slow in reading.

Yes, yes, you may do as you wish. Indeed I
am happy to let you. I have been longing to
have some honeysuckle for ever so long." (Did
she know, I wonder, that in the language of
flowers, so dear to all lovers, these blossoms
meant the bonds of love ? 1 wonder  ) " Yes,.
I will have some honeysuckle, since you will be
so kind. I wanted to ask you, but I was afraid.
It may be expensive and a trouble to get. I  "

A trouble ! " interrupted a low, earnest voice,
yet not so low but that Jerry heard every word
so impressively uttered. " Do you not know that
I would do anything in the world for you? I
would give my life for yours, and if my death  '

At the ominous word a little white hand stole
swiftly out and rested with a gesture of fear upon
the speaker's dark-blue-sleeved arm, while a pleading
voice said, with tell-tale haste, "nay, nay, do
not speak of death. It is like parting  so sad, I  "

Jerry dared listen to no more. Already he
blamed himself for playing the eavesdropper, but
that not without paying for it by more than one
quickly-suppressed pang of jealousy, which even
he was not quite proof against, invulnerable as
Fie deemed himself

As though he had been a thief caught in the
act, he turned hastily away, and would have
crossed to the other side of the tent.

As he did so, loud sounds of applause announced
that the then going on performance was at an
end.

At the same moment the curtains over the
entrance were flung aside. Every one drew back
a little to prepare for " Daystar's " coming, which,
to judge by his exit and future conduct, might not
be exactly a quiet one  every one but some one
who was so absorbed in completing an unfinished
sentence which a fearful, loving, trusting heart
dictated, that she paid no heed to the danger
Which threatened herself.

There was a shout of " Look out! " " Mind
there ! " " Hold him in, Rose ! " and Lisette, her
Avoids stayed on her lips, felt herself seized by a
strong arm. which, ere she knew where lie was,
had pushed her, not roughly but firmly, against
the side of the tent.

Daystar's " entry, as had been expected, was
not by any means a quiet one, in fact he had come
with a rush, kicking and plunging violently, in
spite of the administration of a good dose of the
whip, delivered with no light hand, one of his

muscular forelegs coming within dangerous
proximity to the little fancy-rider's unconscious
form, who must of a certainty have been hurt but
for the timely interposition of one* whose ever-watchful
eye saw the danger.

She out of its reach, the animal plunged a
second under the quick lashes of the whip, then,,
cowed and obedient, trotted back into the nng,
that its mistress might acknowledge the applause-bestowed
upon her.

The grooms dropped more than one oath, in
company with a wish of Mr Petman's to the effect
that his rider would handle the fiery brute better
though I doubt if this was possible under the
circumstances  and then turned in the direction
of Lisette to see if she were hurt.

It's all right," in answer to their anxious inquiries,
for the little fancy-rider was no small
favourite, as I have said, " Miss Hartzmann is not
hurt ; but I think for the future it would be better
for one of the men to lead the horse off when it's
got its tempers. It isn't safe in here."

It was Jerry who spoke, for it was our hero
who, by this little incident, was able to be of
service to Lisette. It was only a trifling service,,
it is true, but he who had rendered it, was only
her friend, he who had never asked favours of her
with flattering humility, he who had made no
verbal dedication of himself to her service, he, and
not her chosen lover, upon whose lips the words
still lingered, " You know I would do anything
in the world for you  I would give my life for

yours"'  high-flown sentiments clad in our sober,
matter-of-fact language ; yet from a lover's lips
surely should have had one ring at least of truth
about them, but which now and long afterwards
echoed in Jerry's ears with a mocking earnestness
which caused him many a pang.

But he put it from his mind then, as he did
every thought which was not exactly in favour of
Lisette's chosen  well  cavalier.

The ring-master had been so intent on listening
to her quaintly-worded remonstrance that naturally
he had no ears for aught else.

It was left to Jerry to have eyes, ears, and heart
too, all ready at a moment's notice to do service
for her he loved best in the world.

And this he had not rendered without injury
to himself.

It's all right," he said, in answer to Lisette's
anxious inquiry, and then he became aware that
his arm still rested round her waist, a fact of which
a pair of keen grey eyes was also cognisant.

With a short dry laugh he hastily withdrew it,
then, although he had said it was " all right," when
he was free from this support winced slightly, and,
raising his left foot from the ground, stood on one
leg for some moments, while the ring-master
hastily claimed Lisette's attention ere she had
time to say a word of thanks, a circumstance
which did not escape Jerry's notice, but he only
smiled and called himself a fool for his pains to
expect to be rewarded for so slight a service.

I believe the beast has hurt yer, Mr Jerry,"

said Smith the groom, after staring at him open-mouthed
for some moments.

Well, I have been trying to find out whether
he has or not for the last week," said Jerry,
laughing nervously, but stopping short and wincing
again.

Just then Mr Petman came up, and Jerry was
bound to acknowledge to him that he feared
' Daystar " had left him a mark of his affection
in the shape of an impression of his hoof upon
the front of his left foot.

*' I'm afraid I'm no good for to-day," said our
hero, who did not cut a very dashing figure for a
rescuer, as he stood looking with an air of regret
comical to behold at his disabled member. *' Ita
mortal pity the beast was in such a hurry. He
might have waited till after my turn."

With this very logical sentiment Mr Petman
heartily agreed, and the lady rider might have
met a reception on her re-entrance to the anteroom
which would have been hardly as gratifying
as the one her victory over her stubborn steed
had gained from the admiring audience, who
fortunately did not witness the little contretemps,
already described, had it not been that at that
moment the manager's presence was urgently
demanded at the pay-box to assist in counting
the returns, a duty he resigned to no one.

Fuming and grumbling at the accident as
though he, and not our hero, were the sufferer
though at the same time in a way that was
most flattering to Jerry's capabilities as employed

in Lis service  the manager departed, and our
disabled friend prepared to do the same.

All this time Lisette was totally unaware that
anything was amiss, so eagerly and completely
did the young ring-master claim her attention.

He was talking rapidly to her in a low earnest
tone in German, so that what they said Jerry
could not understand, but he did not doubt that
the incident had unloosened more than ever the
lover's willing tongue. Judging by his excited
manner, this certainly seemed likely, while it was
easy to see that his interest pleased the object of
it to no small degree ; though she laughingly
declared that there was no cause for fear, she
was not hurt in the least, not noticing that if she
had not suffered some one else had. Jerry had
himself told her he was all right, and now Carl
Hermann claimed all her attention, and left her
neither eyes nor ears for aught else.

As, for the third time, she repeated her assurance
that she was totally unhurt, the cause of
the slight mishap, the lady rider, re-entered the
tent, this time with her steed under perfect control.


She was totally unaware of the mischief she
had caused, and letting the reins hang loosely
over her horse's neck, no doubt to show how perfectly
fearless she was of the devil in him, as the
grooms called his tempers, held up her hand,
revealing how the glove she wore had been torn
in her struggle for mastery.

She glanced round the ante-room carelessly.

aud then the horse came voluntarily to a standstill
a few feet from the couple in the corner, who
were too absorbed in each other to notice her
entrance.

Disdaining one of the grooms' proffered help,
she dismounted alone, stood for several moments
patting "Daystar," then suddenly turned and
addressed Carl Hermann, calling him by name ina
clear, commanding voice, and beckoning him
to her side.

With an ill-suppressed gesture of impatience,
and a few words of apology to his companion, the
ring-master went towards her.

It was only for some trivial reason she had
summoned him. Would he see that some part
of " Daystar's " harness, which had been roughly
used in the late struggle, was repaired?  a little
matter she might easily have placed in the hands
of one of the grooms. But then the well-trained
horse and all its belongings was of far too much
importance to be trusted to the mercies of anyone
of the men.

In company with many others in the ante-room,
Lisette turned and looked at the lady-rider.

She was the same girl to whose presence as a
stranger in the show on the previous day I called
my reader's attention.

She wore the same velvet habit and beaver hat,
the latter resting on a coil of beautifully-braided
black hair. The former she drew in folds over
her arm, as she played with the silver-mounted
riding-whip she held in her hand.

Her face was flushed with her late victory, and
as she bent her rather bold black eyes upon Carl
Hermann, there was an air of animation about her
which made her appearance singularly striking.

Lisette eyed her with a rather puzzled look on
her face, and just at that moment Smith came up
with some paltry excuse to claim her attention,
eager as a dog to catch a crumb of kindness from
the hand that had caressed him.

Nor was he disappointed. Jerry, from where
he stood, noted with pleasure how the little fancy-rider
greeted him with a smile and a few kindly
words, such as were so dear to him, and smiled
himself to see the look of almost slavish adoration
which set strangely upon his ugly face, and then
sighed, suddenly thinking that even to this half
imbecile this fairy of his castle had smiles and
pleasant greetings, while his service, slight as it
was, was not even considered worthy of notice.

The next moment he once more called himself
to order for grudging the poor fellow the little
drop of comfort in his dreary life. Lisette, meanwhile,
all unconscious of the war of feeling which
was going on not a dozen yards from her, stood
chatting to the groom. Presently her glance once
more strayed across the tent, and all of a sudden
a look of intelligence broke across her face.

At length she had discovered the key to the
riddle which had been puzzling her, where had
she seen the lady-rider before? for hers was a
face which was not easily forgotten. But handsome
as it was, Lisette's remembrance of it was

by no means happy, for it recalled to her mind
that dreary night not so very long ago when,
worn ont with her journey in the bad weather,
hopeless and cheerless, I first introduced her, a
very forlorn-looking figure, to my readers  that
night when my story opened, and she found her
way into the midst of the hurry and bustle of
the show, where, for want of a little kindliness
of heart, she had met with such a chilling reception
to her inquiries, upon which for her depended
so much.

Yes, there was no mistaking it. This was the
same girl whose ungraciousness had destroyed all
hope in the tired little stranger's breast, and sent
her out once more in the cheerless night, which to
her appeared no less cold and forbidding than her
reception by those of whom she had merely asked
a little information which it would have cost so
little to have given at least with courtesy  sent
her forth alone and cheerless until she had found
one friend in Jerry. Surely, if she remembered
the unhappiness of that night, this fact at least
was pleasant to her memory.

But no ; it scarcely entered Lisette's mind, for
with her recognition of the stranger, a sudden
thought flashed into her mind. There had been
someone else who had not been as courteous as he
might : the tall, well-coated fellow who had been
talking with such marked impressment to the
strange girl. Who was he? Half involuntarily
Lisette turned to where her lover stood, and saw
him bow and smile in answer to some question

Ov>

put to him by the lady-rider, just as he had
done on that night when Lisette's timid inquiries
for the manager of the show, to which she had
been accidentally directed, had interrupted what
was evidently an interesting tete-astute.

Yes, of course, there they were again, before
Lisette's eyes, as on that night  talking and
laughing gaily like old friends.

As the discovery forced itself into the little
German girl's mind, a sudden flush mounted to
her face, and whether it was that she was so
much taken up with wondering why she had not
recognised Carl Hermann before, I cannot say,
but Smith's chatting continued unheeded in a
way that made the poor fellow presently return
to his work positively wretched, for fear he had
done anything to incur his mistress's displeasure.
Meanwhile the discovery she had made for some
moments impressed Lisette anything but pleasantly,
but by-and-by she shook off* the feeling,
called herself silly for having entertained it 
Carl would be sure to satisfactorily explain his
conduct : it is easy to find an excuse when so
sure of its being readily accepted. No doubt
he was tired and worried ; his talk with this
young lady had perhaps been only business in
which he did not wish to be interrupted, and
no doubt, so bedraggled and worn did bis questioner
look that he might, in the brief, hurried
look which he took at her in the dim light of
the tent, have taken her for some suppliant for
charity.

Oh, Lisette! Lisette! what a foolish heart is yours,
to suppose that before he whispered those honeyed
words in your ear, your lover had claimed no
lady's attention save on a matter of business ;
to plead as an excuse for want of courtesy the
strange theory that any true gentleman should
ever be too tired or worried, and even debase your
womanly vanity so far as to admit that, under
any circumstances, so weary and poverty-stricken
did you look that you were beneath his pity.
Lisette ! Lisette ! the excuse you find only makes
the fault all the worse : it is far more foolish than
the sudden cloud which falls over your gaiety as
you watch those two, the stranger and your much-excused
lover, talking so freely.

For a change has come over Lisette, and while
she stands apparently lost in thought  with the
scene of that dreary night before her eyes, when
one face, the smiles on which she has grown to
live, looked on her in her wretchedness with cold
unfeeling, and the other, which now smiles so
gaily up at her lover, drove her away with cold,
haughty words  a shadow seems to have fallen
on all around, and Lisette shivers, she scarce
knows why, as she waits with strange eagerness
the return of her lover to her side.

Nor was she kept long in a state of expectancy.
In a few moments Mr Petman bustled in, and
going up to the girl, reprimanded her in a not
too gentle manner for having caused the clown's
mishap. She defended herself warmly at first,
in a way which showed that she did not share

the awe in which the rest of the company held
the hot-headed manager.

By ! " said one of the grooms, using an

oath, the better to express his admiration ; " shea
plucky one, she is. A regular chip of the old
block, and no mistake. Did you see how she
took it out of * Daystar ? ' and he's no small handful
to manage, I can tell you  gets the very devil
in him at times. But she's his match  ay, and
more than his match. Look at the way she's

taking it out of the old man. Mj ! if the

horse has got the Old Nick in him, so has she.
Birkett says she's a perfect fury when her blood's
up. Not married ? Bless you, no ; though I do
hear as how she's had more than one swell
a-hanging after her in London, only her temper's
made 'em cut before they got the halter round
their necks, or in front of them, as Merry-ground
says  though in my opinion it's round his
neck wit t'other end tied to a good beam as 'd
be the most enjoyable. Not but what she's a
handsome girl. Look how she's a-shrugging her
shoulders at Mr Hermann behind the old man's
back. It's quite a wonder for her to be so
affable; she's that jolly proud, as a rule, that
she might be a duchess of Lord knows where.
Talk of * Daystar ' being a handful to manage,
why, it'll take more than one man  even if he's
as well up in the work as the boss  to keep her
from her tricks. Lord love him ! I pity the man
who tries to train her. She won't take to the
ring easy, I'm thinking. I wouldn't like to have

the job ; she's up to a few tricks, I'll swear. If
she once set her mind on a thing she'd du it, you
bet your life."

Jerry smiled to himself at the groom's reading
of the lady-rider's character, which, judging
from outward appearances, was certainly warranted.


The words, too, reached Lisette's ears while
she assuredly occupied herself with chatting to
Smith ; and, in turning to look with some curiosity
at the stranger, she met the gaze of Carl Hermann
as he regained her side.

He evidently had heard what the groom had
said, and his eyes travelled slowly from the girl
to whom he had just been speaking to our little
heroine, as she turned towards him.

Some deep thought was evidently in his mind,,
for for once he did not respond to her smile, but
turning to the groom who had spoken, bade him
angrily go about his work. It might have been
that the young ring-master did not choose that
the fellow's not too refined language should fall
upon Lisette's ears ; his own inborn sense of
refinement made his speech a marked contrast
to that of his fellows, and what was more natural
than that, with the instinct and manners of a
gentleman which he possessed, he should regret
one he loved should have to listen to such coarse
language?

At any rate, the tone in which he ordered the
loiterer to cease wasting his time was none too
pleasant, and, turning to Ijizette, he once more

claimed her attention, with what was evidently a
lover-Hke apology for having left her so long.

Lisette, in her naive manner, declared he needed
no excuse, and cut short his protest by asking, 

Who is that young lady"? She is new, is she
not % 1 have not seen her before."

Carl Hermann smiled in answer to the quaintly-worded
question, and said, 

You are right ; she is new here, if by that you
mean she is a stranger; but you have seen her
before, I think. She is Mr Petman's only daughter,
Rosa."

Oh," said Lisette, " that is why she is so frank
with him. I envy her  not for being his daughter,
but because she does not seem to have any fear of
him. They say she has a bad temper, and is very
proud. I see she has scarcely taken notice of anyone
but you."

That is all nonsense, you will see. 1 will introduce
you to her."

The lady-rider had given her horse in charge
of the groom, and, crossing the tent, passed within
a few paces of the couple.

"No, no ; not now," said Lisette, drawing, she
knew not why, back a little ; but the ring-master
stepped forward, and, under the plea that she was
his fellow-countrywoman, and a stranger to the
company since the lady-rider's last visit, presented
the two girls of such different stamp to each other.

The manager's daughter bowed carelessly, not
to say haughtily, while her bold black eyes swept
the little rider from top to toe.

VOL. I. B

I don't seem to have heard your name before,'
she said ; " but I fancy I have seen your face
somewhere."

With this she passed on to where Jerry still
stood on one leg, meditating how he should hobble
to his dressing-room.

Not too graciously she apologised for having
been the cause of his mishap.

It is most unfortunate ' Daystar ' should have
chosen to disable you. My father could spare anyone
better than a clown."

This was said, not as a compliment to Jerry's
value in the show, but as a regret that there was
such a scarcity of talent in the company just when
it was most needed.

"If Miss Hartzmann  is that her name?  had
had her eyes open it need not have happened.
You had better have your foot seen to at once."

And before Jerry could utter a word such as
had risen to his lips in defence of his friend, with
a not too graciously expressed hope that the
injury was not so great as he thought, Miss Pet-man
drew her habit over her arm and passed out
of the ante-room.

'* So that is Miss Petman," said Lisette, following
her with her eyes. " She is very fine  handsome
is it, you say %  but"  as though bound in her
honesty to admit her true feelings  " I am sure
I should not like her."

*' Nonsense," said Carl Hermann, also taking a
survey of the tall figure. " You should not pay
attention to Burton's stable gossip. That fellow

has an ill word for every one." Then, more
lightly, " Certainly his description was not likely
to impress you, but it is as well you should know
her. She has not only much influence over her
father, but also some in town, and it is as well
not to miss opportunities."

It was a wonder to hear the rather lazy young
German so wide awake to advantages of this sort ;
but Lisette was too much occupied with other
thoughts to notice the fact.

She was revolving in her own mind whether or
no she should tell Carl of the true reason for her
expressing her dislike, so suddenly conceived, for
the manager's handsome daughter. At length,
though her child-like nature made her as frank
with him as even the most ardent lover could
have wished, she decided to let the memory of
that night be buried away with the other dark
hours which she had known while the storm of
trouble swept over her head. The sun shone now,
why wilfully cast a shadow over its brightness by
such a silly fancy ?

Silly fancy  that was what Lisette called
it now that her lover was once more by
her side, his handsome face smiling down
at her, his soft, inducing voice whispering all
sorts of beautiful thoughts into her ear, instead
of being summoned, as they had been, to pay
demanded, not proffered, homage to the imperious
daughter of the manager. Yes, Lisette
had grown sad, and shivered when she had seen
the two for the second time together, when the

magic of love's presence was gone ; but the
moment that returned, all shadows fled away
before its brilliance, and little Lisette laughed
at her own folly, and listened heart and soul
to her lover's words.

His words !

As from his far-off corner Jerry watched the
two, he wondered whether the lover was putting
her he loved to the proof, as he had said ; whether
he had sealed his heart, which had been won from
him with that of her who had won it, by that
sacred promise which is the first step to the more-sacred
tie which should bind the two souls that
beat in unison together for ever.

Jerry wondered, and then, suddenly roused from
the reverie into which he had fallen by a consciousness
that his foot was every moment becoming
more painful, he limped off back to his dressing-room,
and from thence, in the garb of a Irrational
mortal, to his lodgings. Here he set to work to
doctor his injured foot, which, to tell the truth,,
had received no light kick from " Daystar's "
iron hoof, and already caused him considerable
pain.

But what did that matter? " as he said to himself
in his queer way on ascertaining the extent of
the damage. *' That kick, by rights, belonged to
the little fancy rider; and had he not for sometime
past wished he might have something
which was hers % Now that he had secured
what would be a lasting remembrance, what cause
had he to grumble ? "

Having comforted himself with this sage piece
of reasoning, onr hero took himself up sharp, ashe
called it, being suddenly endued with the idea
that his logic sounded somewhat like sarcasm  a
sort of cat's play, velvet paws with hidden needles
for which he always expressed a most extreme
contempt, quite in accordance with his open, blunt
character.

Therefore, giving himself a severe rating  a
habit he had acquired lately, and practised with a
rigour which would have done credit to the most
devout penitent,  he proceeded to do his best
to erase this remembrance of his service to
the little fancy-rider, by the application of such
remedies as would be likely to occur to a single
man, who had scarcely known a day's illness
in his life  a fact which spoke well for the
tumbling trade, profession, calling  whatever
name it goes by, as being conducive to general
health.

The nine-oils was therefore called into use,
being obtained from a most unheard of creation,
which must have been invented especially to
bestow upon him the sweeter sympathy which
had been denied him elsewhere, in the shape of a
good-natured landlady, who, having a deeply-rooted
admiration for any one and anything connected
with the profession  her husband having
held, once upon a time, the office of groom at a
London circus, but had been since called away to
fulfil a more important office in a bigger show.
His widow, therefore, readily gave one of his

honoured brethren in the earthly brotherhood
the solace of her motherly kindness in his "sore
extremity."

She produced, therefore, with speed, her sovereign
remedy for all ills, and declaring " as how it
was the nastiest kick as ever she had set eyes on,"
proceeded to assist our injured friend in the application
of the said sovereign remedy, at the
same time keeping up an incessant account of
all the cases in which it had proved infallible.

CHAPTER I.

ODD FOLKS.

But in spite of his good old landlady's comforting
assurance, the nine-oils  pronounced, according
to tradition, " iles "  did not prove so effective in
our hero's case as the recital promised, or, indeed,
as was to be wished.

The morning following his mishap saw Jerry
again "no good," as he phrased it; indeed, such signs
did his injured foot give forth of his retaining for
some time to come Daystar's voluntary proffered
mark of affection that, for once, her faith shaken
in her sovereign remedy, his worthy laudhidy
advocated seeing a doctor. Jerry at first laughed
at the idea, and declared a few days' rest would
be all the medicine he required; but after Mr
VOL. IL A

Petman had paid him a visit, not of condolence,
but to ascertain how matters were, and sworn
roundly by way of sympathy, accompanying the
same with a warning, that if the clown did not
put in an appearance at the show on the moiTow
he should have to stop his screw, which was
rather hard lines, considering the circumstances
of the case, which, however, he utterly refused to
take into consideration, and as the pain rather
increased than abated, Jerry very reluctantly gave
permission to let a certain " Squills " in the
neighbourhood try his hand upon him.

The result of the visit of the man of physic was
to reduce our hero to a state of despondency
which he had never known before.

The verdict to which he listened was to him
the most terrible that could have been pronounced.

The kick had severely injured some of the
small bones of the foot, and unless it was allowed
complete rest for some time to come, the doctor
would not say what might be the consequences.

Quaking for fear, our hero asked how longsome
time " might mean in doctors' parlance.

The answer he received completely destroyed
all his hopes.

Three weeks ! " he ejaculated in despair, " I
don't believe I shall live half that time. You'll
have to chain me down, doctor, or I shall be
breaking out into a double hand-over-hander."

If you do," was the prompt reply, " you'd
better order in a pair of crutches, for they'll be
what you'll want for the rest of your days."

With this dire threat the doctor departed, with
the usual promise to call at some no very distant
date, and finding there was no help for it, Jerry-proceeded
to resign himself to his fate with the
test grace he could assume.

The news of his *' doom," as he called it, soon
got abroad, and one by one most of the company
dropped in to offer their sympathy, and in more
than one case, more substantial proofs of good-fellowship.


Installed in his landlady's best front parlour,
our wounded hero was constrained to believe that,
in spite of all her protestations of pity, the good
lady was nevertheless not ungrateful to the occasion
for allowing her to heap favours upon one
of her husband's beloved profession ; installed, I
say, in his landlady's best front parlour, enthroned
in truly imposing state in a huge leathern armchair,
his " sick member," as he called it, carefully
disposed on a stool in front of him, in order, no
doubt, to keep him in remembrance of the fact
that he was "invalided," lest in a moment of
forgetfulness he might be tempted to vent his
feelings in a double somersault, our hero during
the intervals of the performances at the gardens
held a levies the dignity of which caused the landlady
to completely pulverise her domestic, who
imagined she must have taken leave of her senses,
by donning her best high-day and holiday garb 
a massively-trimmed black silk dress and lace cap,
which had never seen light since " poor, dear
Parkins's death."

Really," as Jerry remarked in private to the
aforesaid " slavey," who, having a sweetheart ina
Methodist chapel pew-opener, had been taught
to look upon anything approaching to theatres
with something short of abhorrence, and who was
with great difficulty induced to remove from the
sideboards, brackets, etc., the dust of ages which
had accumulated upon them, because of the
presence of our wounded hero amongst themes
really," said Jerry, unaware of the meaning of
the looks of askance which the pew-opener's
sweetheart cast upon him during the said operation,
" really one would think the old lady looked
upon me as a special-sent messenger of Providence
to provide her with a little enjoyment."

At this " heathenish " remark  vide the pew-opener
 that worthy's young lady was, as she put
it, so " took aback " that she allowed the model
of a Chinese god to slip from her fingers into the
fender, where it was smashed, if not to the proverbial
thousand pieces, at least enough to place
it beyond repair even by the renowned 81-ton
cement ; the scandalised raaid-of-all-w work literally
fleeing from the chamber in horror and not a
little dread of the wrath which would be poured
on her devoted head  why " devoted," I scarcely
know, but I believe it is the proper terra to apply
in such a case, so for the sake of logic, we will
suppose it was devotion to her Methodist lover
and his sentiments ; not as my reader may be
tempted to imagine, to a faculty which 
seem to possess of breaking, cracking,

and otherwise damaging the most precious relics
and heirlooms possessed by their unfortunate
mistresses.

Jerry vented his astonishment at the " slavey's "
abrupt exit by a long whistle, but utterly failed to
ascertain the cause; then proceeded to rejoice
over the downfall of the said little Chinese god,
to which hideous but unoffending ornament he
had taken a most violent and deeply-rooted antipathy,
Which, owing to his projected confinement
Within arm's reach of it, bode, I fear, but little
.good to the grinning idol.

However, thankful that he had been spared
hurting his kind lady's feelings by himself making
sway with this, her most valued heirloom, as she
called it, the same having been presented to
* dear dead Parkins " by his boss as a token of
regard for his valued services, Jerry sympathised
most heartily with the old woman when he found
her, instead of rowing the ' slavey," wiping away
a few regretful tears on the corner of her best
black silk apron, so attached had she been to the
shattered idol, with much more just cause than
frequently exists for the blind devotion which
mortals bestow on similar unworthy objects when
they meet with a like tragic fate.

But Jerry did not moralise thus.

The sight of the old woman's tears moved him
at once.

He called himself all sorts of hard names for ever
having entertained an evil thought of the ruined
idol, declared most emphatically that it was the

most beautiful ornament he had ever set eyes on,
and instantly reversed his judgrat when the
good lady despondingly declared that it was the
memories attached to it that made her value it ;
she knew it was ugly, but she liked ugly things.

At this Jerry put on his most tragic air, and
swore a solemn oath that he knew she liked ugly
things, or why had she taken such a fancy to him
he was ugly enough in all conscience;  she had
treated him like a son, and he was sure he looked
on her as a mother, etc.

This last piece of sentiment completely restored
the old woman's equanimity. She forgot her grief
in violently protesting that her lodger was by no
means to be compared with her broken idol ;
indeed, Jerry was at a loss to make out whether
she was anxious to claim for it a perfect monopoly
of hideousness, or whether he was really the
Adonis she would have made him out. Adonis !
I doubt if the lady had ever heard of this sort of
god, the mention of which, I verily believe, would
have resulted in nothing short of a sky-blue fit to
the pious young female who had brought about
the destruction of the Chinese idol.

To my reader it may seem something bordering
on profanity to so much as mention the name in
connection with Jerry, who, had he been aware of
it, might have remarked that comparisons are
odious, which in this case they certainly were.

However, although our hero stoutly refused to
accept even his landlady's repeated assurance that
he was, when in his Sunday best, by no means

bad-looking, indeed far from being the ugliest
lodger she had let her two-pair-back to, he was
by no means unimpressed by her kindness in
making the best of all things  namely, the loss of
her pet ornament, his own want of good looks, and
the accident which had thrown him on her tender
mercies, which, to say the truth, were well deserving
of the name. In his inmost heart  I do
not know whether, like all possessors of secret
opinions, this judgment was shared by his outermost
organ, the distinction " inmost " implying
that he laid claim to more than one palpitating
machine  in his inmost heart, I say, Jerry pronounced
her a brick, and emphasised his opinion
when he was once more himself again by searching
the town over for another Chinese idol, determined
to purchase it, no matter what the price ;
and, more heroic resolve still, no matter if twice
as ugly, if possible, than its predecessor.

Fortunately, however, for his pocket and also
for his powers of endurance, when the god of
hideousness came under his vision, as it would
have done during his stay with Mrs Parkins, such
a thing as he sought was not to be had for love or
money ; and though he saw what would to his
mind have been an excellent equivalent in a
Dutch doll of English manufacture which, deprived
of its arms and legs and subjected to a
brief sojourn in the coal-cellar, might easily have
passed for a substitute, he could hardly screw up
his courage to the point of entering the shop to
make the desired purchase, fearful lest he should

be taken for a family man. Jerry was bashful on
this point, while visions of being handed his purchase
sans paper, and having to convey it home
thus, and at any moment while thus laden stumble
upon one of his colleagues, alarmed him to such a
degree that he gave up the idea.

The one, however, which next entered his head,
and Which he immediately carried out, was hardly
so ingenious, though certainly more expensive.

It consisted in purchasing for his obliging landlady
a pretty little Dutch clock, a far more
useful and ornamental way of evincing his gratitude,
and one which delighted *poor dear
Parkins's" widow to such an extent, that she
instantly raked up for the thousandth time that
much disturbed man, and compared his many
virtues with those of our hero.

This comparison so much affected her that she
quite broke down, and sobbed over the little
Dutch clock as though it were the grave of her
worthy husband ; but after a few moments' enjoyment
of the luxury of tears, she dried her tears,
and sat eyeing her lodger with a gaze which had
something in it more than admiration, a something
which Jerry could by no means understand
I am not sure that he was not somewhat
alarmed by it, though why he hardly knew.

It is useless for my reader to ask me to describe
that look. I doubt if quill or steel pen, even the
fluent '* J," could describe it, or if mortal paintbrush
could have justly portrayed it.

All I will say is that it was a look of questioning,

though for knowledge of what Jerry could
not tell ; but unconsciously he retreated before it,
going back step by step until he was at least
fourteen paces from it. But it was useless for
him to think that by so doing he would escape
what followed.

The good lady regarded him fixedly for several
moments, then suddenly gave expression in words
the look which had so puzzled him.

It seemed that during his daily sojourn in her
little front parlour he had made a far greater impression
upon this motherly soul than lie had calculated
 an impression which, no doubt, his timely
present as a proof of his gratitude and generosity,
two of the most prominent traits in poor dear
Parkins's sainted character, had greatly increased,
an impression which it seemed Mrs Parkins, in
spite of the memory of the dear departed, was
unable t(3 resist.

In plain words, such as she used, she laid herself
and all her earthly goods and chattels  the
well-kept lodging-house which paid its way and
left something over to lay by for a rainy day, and
fifty pounds already saved for that occasion, at
the feet of her favoured lodger, who, it seemed,
had completely stolen away the remainder of
her heart  and that no despicable portion, as
Jerry knew well  that she had not deposited in
her first husband's grave.

The fact that her action might in any way seem
to slight this ex-groom's memory troubled her at
first not a little, but after the first shyness she

warmed to her subject, and unhesitatingly, and
certainly most pressingly, offered our hero that
same gentleman's vacant place  in short, asked
him to be her husband.

Surely never before was there such an absurd
situation ; certainly never before had Jerry, in
all his comic experiences both in and out of the
ring  the latter many times more really funny
than any at which the public laughed so consumedly
 been placed in one to beat it.

There sat the old lady in the old leathern armchair,
which Jerry called his stool of penitence,
her portly figure in its neat brown gown, clean
apron and showy cap. Of late the pious domestic
had noticed that " missus" had taken to wearing
her best things in the morning, instead of reserving
them, as every decent Christian should, for
Sunday wear, a practice which the Methodist
pew-opener denounced with great solemnity and
many shakes of the head, which said plainly
enough that he feared Mrs Parkins was in every
way likely to follow her husband to that unmentionable
place to which he (the pew-opener, not
any higher authority) consigned the souls of all
connected with that lost body, the profession,
and at the same time a practice which to any
member of the male sex less endued with a sense
of his own personal attractions, not to say vanity,
might have construed into, well, a prologue to
what followed.

The good lady was, as I have said, seated in
her leathern arm-chair I should have said, on

the extreme edge of that seat  her fat hands
planted firmly on each knee, her motherly bosom
heaving with emotion, and her expansive countenance
illuminated by a smile, the benignity of
which defies description. Opposite to her, but at
the distance already described, his back firmly
planted against the wall, his feet apart, his body
bent slightly forward, his hands, as usual, diving
into the depths of his pockets, his dress somewhat
disarranged, especially his necktie, as was usual
when he was excited, his shoulders slightly raised,
his head thrown well back, his hair sticking up ina
most expressive, but at the same time unbecoming,
manner on his forehead, his mouth puckered
up into distinct preparations for a whistle of unusual
shrillness, stood our hero, with his eyes 
well, I think it was a good thing for Jerry that
they were so small that Mrs Parkins was unable
to define the expression in them. Though by
trade a merry fellow, and  which perhaps accounts
for the fact  in private life well known for
his good temper and affability, yet never before
had Jerry felt such a violent inclination to explode
with laughter as at the time of which 1 write.

His eyes fairly danced with merriment, and it
was only by resolutely keeping his lips in a
whistling position that he was able at all to keep
his feelings under control.

Never before had the sense of the ludicrous
struck him so forcibly ; the contrast between him
and his " wooer," as he secretly designated Mis
Parkins, was so plainly marked, their positions

so unsuggestive of the turn the conversation had
taken  a fact which might have deterred any-less
earnest " lover " than the landlady  her
manner so impressive and spontaneous, his own
astonishment so perfectly uncontrollable, the
whole affair, Dutch clock and all, so utterly absurd,
that in my opinion Jerry deserved a medal
from the Humane Society for so determinedly-restraining
giving vent to his feelings.

No, he bound himself down by most awful
threats not to laugh, pronouncing on his headmost
dire punishment if he indulged in the impulse.
If he died of suffocation in the effort, he
would not allow himself so far to forget what
was due to his own dignity and Mrs Parkins's
feelings, as to give way to his mirth.

For, ludicrous as it at first appeared, like most
comic scenes, there was yet a touch in it of the
pathetic, to a sense of which Jerry's mind was
never dull.

It needed but one glance at Mrs Parkins's tear-retained,
expressive countenance to know that her
part, at least, in the scene, was played in earnest.
There was no mistaking the fact that she was as
sincere in this strange offer as in the other kindnesses
which she had heaped on her lodger's head.
Yes, she certainly "meant it," as Jerry said to
himself, and not for worlds would he have let her
suspect by so much as a smile that he was in anyway
amused.

Laugh he certainly would have done but for
the remembrance of that pathetic touch in the

midst of all the absurdity. As it was, the memory
of the old woman's motherly kindness, doubly
appreciated because he was so unused to such
from fair hands; her lonely life since poor dear
Parkins was taken from her, leaving her to the
tender mercies of lodgers who were not all possessed
of Jerry's sense of gratitude, with no chick
nor child to cheer her in the ruddy old age which
would soon be upon her; above all, her evident
goodness of heart, which made her wish to do
something for one whose honesty and cheery
ways had of late so enlivened the lodging-house,
held every smile even in check.

This was all the more apparent when, on his
stammering out a few words, in which he expressed
his sense of the obligation she wished to
confer upon him, but at the same time set forth
as well as he was able his inability to comply
with her request, she accepted his assurance that
it could not be, sorrowfully, but with calm resignation,
smoothed down her apron with great care,
told Jerry not to be bothered about her, no doubt
she was a silly old woman, but to be sure in the
morning to put on the new socks she had made
for him. These socks he ever afterwards regarded
with something like awe, not knowing how much
of Mrs Parkins's second love-story might have been
knitted in with the " three purl  one plain " of
which they were composed, while the lady herself
straightway set an example to all rejected lovers
by cooking and, in company with the object of
her affections, partaking of such a meal of tripe

and onions as made the noses of the less-favoured
lodgers turn up with envy. The matter, however,
did not end there.

Hearing from the Methodist pew-opener's young
woman that the favour which was shown to him
had led to the comforts of the other occupants of
the widow's furnished apartments being somewhat
less carefully attended to than of yore, consequent
upon which the good lady had fallen in the esteem
of several single gentlemen, who might, perhaps,
be led to forsake her hospitable roof, Jerry easily
gained permission to make the best parlour the
scene of a nice little supper in honour of his departure,
to which everyone in the house was
invited.

This supper was a complete success, and completely
restored the equanimity of the single
gentlemen  for it was impossible to be anything
but on good terms with a landlady who was
evidently in such high favour with such an
eminent person as the well-known circus clown,
whose ability to provide not only a "jolly good
supper," but to entertain his guests so well, completely
atoned for all past favours which he lead
received. It was truly a sight to see Mrs Parkins,
resplendent in the black silk, done up for the
occasion with a large quantity of bead trimming,
and wearing a cap the like of which had never
been seen before, and the gorgeousness of which
had the effect upon the pious domestic to inspire
her with prophecy, under the spirit of which she
predicted all sorts of evils which were to befall

the wearer of the pagoda-Hke edifice of lace,
flowers, and ribbons, beneath which Mrs Parkins's
expansive countenance beamed with so much
radiance on the guests of her favourite lodger,
at whose right hand she was placed, and made
the recipient of attentions such as she had never
received even from " poor, dear, dead Parkins."

The entertainment was pronounced a great success,
and so far increased the landlady's esteem
as to make her once more revert to her original
project for making her lodger a permanency.

It was on the morning following the supper
already spoken of, when Jerry stood for the last
time in the little front parlour to say good-bye
to her.

She bore up all right while she was fussing
after his luggage, which she had considerably
augmented by the secretion of various little returns
for the Dutch clock, in the shape of more
than one article of wearing apparel which she
herself had made, to say nothing of a carefully-packed
hamper, into which she had emptied the
resources of her store cupboard, such dainties as
might have kept a good-sized family provided for
several weeks ; but when at length she could no
longer put off the fatal moment, nor refuse to see
that Jerry held out his hand to shake hers, even
then it seemed impossible for her to say goodbye,
and all of a sudden Jerry became seriously
alarmed lest he was in for a repetition of the
proposal of a few days before, for the way the
old woman sobbed was truly heartrending. Jerry

was not sure that he should be able to go through
the scene a second time with due solemnity, and
entertained serious thoughts as to whether it was
not his duty as an Englishman and the recipient
of so much golden affection to accept the kindly
offer, and make Mrs Parkins  Mrs Jerry.

His reflections, however, which began to grow
somewhat painful, owing to an honesty of purpose
and a desire to do his duty, were cut short by the
object of them referring certainly to her proposal
but in a manner very different from what he had
expected.

It seemed that the interest with which she
regarded our hero, while losing nothing in its
intensity, had undergone a complete transformation,
and with an astonishment which hardly exceeded
that of the former occasion, he found the
widow's affections, house, and money saved, once
more at his feet, to be his this time, not by union
with marriage bonds, but by the acceptance of his
adoption by the landlady. In lieu of a husband,
the old woman would have adopted her lover asa
sou.

Ludicrous as had seemed the former project
this following it was doubly so. Give vent to
his merriment, Jerry felt he must but for the
timely arrival of the milkman, and during the
time that the old woman was issuing orders for
half a pint extra to be taken, he managed not
only to control his features, but also to determine
upon a course of action.

Long association with the ring, as a rule, rendered

it easy for him to say the right thing at the
right moment while in public, but in private he
found himself rather short of words.

However, as before, his rejection of her offer was
firm, if none too fluently uttered, but he did something
which was better than any amount of excuses
although he afterwards was at a loss to know how
he had screwed up his courage to the sticking point.
He first said quietly how much he thanked her for
her kindness in this and all other matters, but he
couldn't think of letting her be to him anything"
than the best friend he had ever had in the world,,
whom he would never cease to remember with
pleasure and gratitude, and in proof of which he
would never miss an opportunity of paying hera
visit, but he would not hear of there being any
ceremony in the matter which might give him, if
in future years he chose to turn lazy (only he
knew how remote was the possibility), a hold
upon her generosity  and to bring this medley
of fun and truth to an end, he put one arm
round the old woman's make-believe of a
neck, and, bending down, kissed her heartily on
the cheek.

This salute was returned with interest, with
many a " God bless yon, my boy," and then, freeing
himself from the motherly arms which held
him, Jerry seized bag and other luggage, and
made his escape down the street, looking back,
however, when he reached the corner, to wave a
last salute to the portly figure of Mrs Parkins,
which, as she waved a very limp handkerchief,
VOL. II. B

completely blocked up the doorway, to the
extreme annoyance of her second floor, who was
just off to catch a train.

Thus Jerry and his landlady parted to meet
again, and to this day the little Dutch clock maybe
seen in the latter's parlour.

IN SUNSHINE AND SHADOW.

But in relating my hero's experiences with his
landlady, of which sisterhood she was, I fear, the
exception, not the rule, I have, I find, been led
somewhat ahead of my story. What occurred
meanwhile, although it is in fact the connecting
link between the past and the future of those with
whom this tale has to do, the detailing of it will
not take very long.

I have said that during Jerry's enforced sojourn
in Mrs Parkins's front parlour he had many
visitors, and among these Lisette Hartzmann and
Madame Petite. Through the medium of Smith,
the former had at length become acquainted with
the true state of the case and her share in it, and,
full of contrition and far more gratitude than was
necessary under the circumstances, cut short her
usual chat in the ante-room on the morning following
the accident, to pay her visit to her old
friend.

Jerry always remembered the visit with feelings

of mixed pleasure and pain, owing to hi
naturally volatile nature, the former predominating.


It was just after the episode of the Chinese idol
when the widow had somewhat recovered from
her sorrow at its destruction, that the Methodist
domestic announced that a young lady would like
to know how he was  hoped greatly that he was
better, and sent her bitterest sorrow that he did
it through her.

Even allowing for the retentive memory of
general servants, Jerry fancied he recognised the
wording of one whose knowledge of our vulgar 
very vulgar in many respects  tongue was rather
limited.

He therefore requested Mrs Parkins in person
to take his answer, the time which it took him to
compose the same, and the rather obscure meaning
of it when it was composed, considerably
puzzling his messenger, who, finding her interview
with the inquirer on the doorstep rather
unsatisfactory, at length, under her motherly
chaperonage, ushered Lisette, for she it was,
into Jerry's presence.

He was a little taken aback at the honour thus
conferred upon him, and, in spite of Mrs Parkins's
protests, seconded with much impressment by his
visitor, insisted upon rising to greet this visitor.

Lisette, however, soon reduced him to order,,
and in a few minutes was seated in the low ,
while Mrs Parkins occupied the sofa,
discussing his injury with an earnestness and

dignity which rendered her English doubly difficult
to understand, and made Jerry indulge in a
great deal of merriment at her expense, not all
quite unaffected.

Lisette treated his " fun-making," as she called
it, with great dignity, excusing it on account of
his being an invalid, and completely winning the
old landlady's heart by her pretty speech and
ways.

It was wonderful to see how her presence
seemed to brighten up the Httle room, with its
prim order, old-fashioned furniture, and not too
cheery outlook into the side street, for, even
though, as Jerry owned to himself, there was no
reason now for him to pinch and screw, he did
not rush into extravagances in the way of lodgings,
for which economy he was well repaid, as
we have seen, by the pleasant company into which
he fell, which even more luxurious rooms could
not have gained him.

But comfortable as he confessed himself to be,
if, and I have little doubt such was the case, there
had been one thing wanting, it was the sunshine
of some one's presence whom he loved  that
sunshine which seemed suddenly to have found
its way into the room with the little fancy-rider's
entrance.

And while fully aware that he had lost his
power to claim the pleasure, Jerry tried to retain
possession of the brightness as long as he was
able.

In spite of the no slight pain which in defiance

of the nine-oils and various other soothing ointments
recommended by the doctor his foot was
causing him, he laid himself out to be extra lively,
almost blessing the accident which gave him the
privilege he would otherwise have been denied,
and once he found himself, quite innocently, exaggerating
even the doctor's opinion of his injury,,
in order that he might hear again Lisette express
her gratitude in her queerly-worded sentences,,
and also because a sudden hope had crept into
his mind that perhaps she might be induced to
pay another similar visit during his disablement,,
as she called it. This wish was by no means
abated when, in response to several loud whispers
from Mrs Parkins, in which the words " best teapot,"
*' green gage jam," " muffins," were distinctly
audible, Jane, the domestic already spoken of, made
her appearance with all necessaries for a grand
tea, of which Lisette could not refuse to partake.

So there they were, he, she, and Mrs Parkins,
who as yet did not entertain in her bosom any
deeper feeling for our hero than that honest
admiration with which she regarded anything
and everything in any way related to the profession
of her poor dear, dead husband, sitting
as cosy as possible round the little three-legged
tea-table in the front parlour, drinking tea out of
Mrs Parkins's best cups, and just as cosy as though,
as Jerry remarked, they had been a young couple
come to pay a visit to their mother-in-law.

He made this remark with an air of great
joviality when, having piled on to Lisette's plate

the last of the muffins, he contented himself with
bread-and-butter, protesting that he preferred ita
fact which any one who has ever tasted the
Winkleberry muffins will either put down to a
great want of taste, or disbelieve it altogether,
remembering that Lisette had a moment before
expressed a sentiment the very reverse.

Like a young couple visiting their mother-in-law
! "

The moment he had uttered this apparently
harmless sentiment  one which he used with
great success during some rather rough fun in
the ring  he became suddenly crimson, only by
a miracle saving his teacup from emptying its
contents into Mrs Parkins's lap, and succeeding
in letting his bread-and-butter slip through his
fingers to the floor.

Bah! " said Lisette, laughing gaily. *' It is as
well I do not wish you as my husband, since you
are so clumsy as to drop your bread. It," with an
inquiring shrug of her shoulders, *rit has gone,
where is the butter, downwards, of course."

Mentally comparing the piece of bread to the
luck which he had let slip in just such another way,
Jerry covered his awkwardness by some laughing
rejoinder, the fun coming from his lips, not his
heart, and stooped to pick up the subject of his
comparison.

But in his own mind he heard his half-stifled
longing for what could not be, rebuked by that
laughing voice which, all unconscious of the sting it
contained, said, with all the naivete which made the

bitterness none the less great for being so hidden,
** It is as well I do not wish you as my husband."

Here was an answer to his unspoken thought
in words which, though uttered in jest, foregone
actions proved none the less sincere.

Jerry told himself in the hard, dry way he had
lately got into of censuring his actions and
thoughts, that the correction served him very
well right, a conclusion which did not tend to
increase his liveliness of manner during the meal.

Even the fact that the piece of bread, which in
fun which his own bitterness had turned into
mockery, Lisette had decided was sure to have
fallen butter-side downwards, was, in fact, buttered
on both sides, did not inspire him with any idea
but that her excitement at entertaining two such
celebrities of the town as the fancy-rider and himself
had led Mrs Parkins to commit such a piece
of extravagance, not even pausing to think whether
Fate, holding high festival also in honour of two
deserving souls, might not be guilty of a like
proceeding.

But even though such a trivial incident made
Jerry a little preoccupied for some time after the
tea things were cleared, so concerned did Lisette
become lest his foot should be the cause of his
change of manner that he had perforce to exert
himself to please and amuse her until she rose
to go.

After tea she stationed herself at the window,
and while chatting away in her childlike manner
to Mrs Parkins, her eyes wandered every now and

then down the length of the street in a way which
gathered puzzled Jerry, clear-sighted as he had
been to see through circumstances which were far
more dense than this.

He did not, however, have long to wonder, for
by-and-by, as the time grew near for the evening
performance, Lisette rose, and thanking Mrs
Parkins for her kindness, donned her pretty white
straw hat and little cashmere fichu, and said her
good-bye rather hurriedly.

Jerry hobbled to the window, obviously to see
her pass down the steps, but in reality to ascertain
if some suspicions he had were well founded. Yes,
as he thought, Lisette had been watching for someone
who had no doubt promised to come and meet
her with the flowers he had asked to be allowed to
get her. Yes, there down the street went the little
figure in the silver-grey dress, the soft folds of
which had so lately touched Jerry's hand 
Lisette's step gay and buoyant as one who goes
to meet pleasure  speeding, hurrying along to
meet the young fellow who sauntered along to
meet her.

He sees Lisette's step grow even quicker, the
two hands meet, and the one face look up with a
wordless welcome such as he would have given
worlds to have earned, at the handsome one above,
and then side by side the two pass down the hot
dusty street, no doubt forgetting all else but that
they are in each other's company  forgetting all
else but their own happiness in their love.

But ere they had gone many paces together,

suddenly a third figure overtook them  a tall girl
in a well-made summer costume of some light
cotton material, blossoming all over with flowers
like an arbour in a pleasure garden, a costume
such as the weather permitted, well made, if that
means displaying a fine figure to its best advantage
with the help of as many frills, flemings, and
gatherings as could be crowded into one body and
skirt, while lace and flowing ribbons, the latter of
a rather bright colour, were equally freely distributed.
A light straw hat of most becoming shape,
trimmed with lace and feathers, long tan gloves,
and a parasol also heavily trimmed with cheap
lace, completed an ensemble which, if a little
startling, was certainly well carried ofi" by the
wearer.

This gorgeous apparition of lace, feathers, ribbons,
and flowers, without seeming to hurry, overtook
the two lovers, passed them as though she
did not recognise them, then turned and with a
well-acted gesture of surprise, considering the
little farce already described, greeted the ring-master
with evident empress event, his companion
with much less so, and as she too was bound to
the gardens, the trio turned in that direction
together.

No doubt both Lisette and her lover would
gladly have dispensed with her company, for instead
of the anticipated tete-astute, the new arrival
had managed to place herself between them, and
seeming to totally ignore the presence of one of
them, addressed herself with mighty vivacity to

the other. Was it an omen of the future that
while the gaily-clad manager's daughter, for she
it was, talked and laughed gaily with the handsome
young ring-master in the sunlight, the little
fancy-rider, whose sober grey dress seemed suddenly
to have become quakerish and plain in the
extreme, walked along silent, and not moody, but
somewhat preoccupied in the shade ?

Was it, too, an omen that that night when
Lisette entered the ante-room for once her lover
was not waiting for her, that when he did come
and bring her the flowers he had promised, instead
of being the honeysuckle she had asked for they
were scentless daffodils?

Ah, Jerry, Jerry, you may be quick in reading
signs which foretell evil to yourself, but why are
you so blind to that which throws a cloud over a
life which is dearer to you than your own, a cloud
which may one day spread over the whole horizon,
obscuring the brightness of the once clear sky, till
all at once the storm bursts and falls with appalling
violence? Ah,you Jerry, as the days go by so slowly
in your prison, when you would give all you
possess to be able to drown your trouble by work,
you may comfort yourself with the thought that
it might be the one you love best in the world
lying here in the loneliness and pain, that you have
saved her all this. How are you to know that in
the days to come she whom you saved from Daystar's
upraised foot, paying yourself the penalty
of a relentless will, will say to you in deeds if not
in words, that it would have been doing better

service to her to have let her be stricken down by
those iron hoofs dead at your feet, than left her to
have her life slowly trodden out of her by the no
less cruel feet of a foe from which even your love
could not save her ?

A FACE AT THE WINDOW.

Jerry's doom, as he called it, had been imprisonment
for three weeks, if not more, and it was
during this time that the change to which I have
referred took place.

How it happened it would be hard to say  even
Jerry himself never exactly knew  although there
was perhaps some one else who could have detailed
it all had she chosen.

He had not been slow to detect any change in
himself, but he was very long discovering that
matters were not going on in that little world in
which he was most interested exactly as he at
first imagined.

Finding it useless in the condition in which his
foot continued  the blow from Daystar's hoof
having in fact resulted in a more severe injury
than he had thought at first  and to think of
retarding its complete recovery by disobedience
to the doctor's orders being out of the question,
he gave himself up to his fate with as good a
grace as he could assume.

And now again I fancy I see my reader slightly
elevating that feature which enjoys by this action
the monopoly of expressing contempt, for once
more my hero seems Httle deserving of the name.

Here he was, invalided in a most lame manner
(this is not meant for a wooden-legged witticism).
Instead of having gallantly saved the girl he loved
from death, or at the least from being a cripple
for the rest of her days at the risk of his own life
this in the ring where he could have earned the
applause of the admiring spectators  he had at
the very suggestion of danger been so alarmed
that he had merely dragged her out of the way ina
very clumsy manner ; and for his trouble received
a nasty knock, to make a merit of which
was like making a fuss about nothing.

Now a neat little blow on the forehead, just
enough to leave a scar of honourable  not to say
disfiguring  dimensions, or a broken leg, would
have been something worth talking about ; while
a broken arm would have thrown a glamour of
helplessness and romance over him, as it has done
over countless heroes before, which from being
unusual in his case would have been doubly interesting
and delightful.

Then, too, this form of injury does not necessitate
imprisonment  nay, directly affords opportunities
for many delicate little attentions from the
rescued one.

But to be placed in such an interesting situation
as this was not Jerry's luck, and he had to
make up his mind to swallow his feelings, which,

however, would now and then find vent in a few
hard words  for he was by no means a saint  and
to while away the hours of his captivity as best
lie could. This at first he did not find so very
difficult. Mrs Parkins never seemed to weary of
chatting to him, and he had no lack of visitors.

There was, however, as we know, one among
these latter for whom he looked with more eagerness
than the rest.

Nor did he look in vain.

Every day he managed to catch a glimpse of
her, and when this pleasure was over he seemed
to find the hours drag by very slowly.

First of all, owing to Mrs Parkins's kind hospitality,
which set the invalid's mind at rest about
the propriety of the thing, she, meaning of course
Lisette, would come in at all sorts of times to give
an account of the day's show  a recital which at
the same time cheered and depressed her hearer.
It was astonishing how much the young clown's
heart was in his work.

The landlady was for some time at a loss to
know how it was that, no matter how docile her
patient was during the other portions of the day,
from about half-past two to four in the afternoon
and eight to half-past nine in the evening, a big
slice of the twelve hours, he was sure to be most
restless, and sometimes just a little irritable.

Truth to tell, much as he tried to convince himself
to the contrary, our hero never found the
time of his "turn" approaching without experiencing
a longing to be at his work. Even though

it was '* only playing the fool," it was a harmless
sort of duty which many people perform without
the laudable object of gaining their daily bread.
He never would have believed that he could so
greatly miss going through his old tricks  monotonous
as the routine often became when in practice
 while he fairly laughed at himself for recalling
with so much pleasure the applause and loud
approbation which as a rule greeted his appearance.


Yet try and disguise the fact as he would he had
a daily-increasing "hankering," as he called it,,
after the show and all that appertained to it, and
looked forward with great eagerness to the time
when he should be able to take his place in it once
more.

Till then the hours he was forced to spend in
unwonted inactivity were a sad drag upon him,
till one day, in a lucky moment, Mrs Parkins, who
unreservedly placed the entire resources of her
household at his command for his amusement,
discovered among some old curiosities a book
entitled, " A Few Card Tricks, for Beginners," a
present from some past lodger.

This she presented to Jerry with much delight,
which was, however, rather damped when he said
it was not in his line at all.

Nevertheless, in spite of this assertion, made
just after one of Lisette's visits, which perhaps
accounted for his despondency, later on in the
day, for want of something better to do, he amused
himself by turning over the leaves of the despised

book, and was surprised to find how easy many of
the wonderful experiments appeared, a view of
the matter which the apparently simple explanations
of most deceiving illusions is not always calculated
to inspire in the uninitiated. This view,
however, he did not entertain long, soon coming
to the conclusion that the cause was a good deal
more mystifying than the effect.

He was not, however, to be beaten. Having
obtained from his landlady a pack of cards, and
one or two requisites for the magic art, he set
diligently to work to master some of the intricacies
of the tricks contained in the book.

Having succeeded in this, after no small amount
of trouble, he became somewhat prepossessed with
his own skill, and liking the amusement as well,
determined to try his hand on further wonders, in
which a gorgeous handkerchief, eggs, boxes of
mysterious make, pieces of money covered with
dark paper on one side, bottles with covers to fit,
etc., etc., played a prominent part.

With a dogged determination worthy of a better
cause, he spent hours frowning over a musty book
on sleight-offhand, which, on his new hobby being
known, had also been presented to him by Madame
Petite, whose father, according to the little French
lady's account, had been a perfect master in the
magic art. Soon his (Jerry's) visitors were daily
asked to witness some proof of his skill.

These impromptu displays were very funny,
since his friend's chaff often rendered the conjuror
so nervous that more than once it ended in his
VOL. II. C

exposing the whole trick. This, however, he took
very good-temperedly, joining in the laugh against
himself when he handed back his trick coins in the
place of the one he had succeeded in borrowing
after much resistance  from Will Breakneck
utterly failed to find a scarf pin, also a loan, which
defection might, he was assured, lead to im-pleasant
consequences had the lender been one
of an ordinary audience, burnt to a cinder a
handkerchief which was to have been restored
to its owner, washed, ironed, folded, and scented,
and, most amusing calamity of all, after having
successfully caused an  to disappear, as he
fondly imagined, an ill-advised gesture of triumph
disclosed the whereabouts of the same by a sticky
yellow fluid, which discovered itself by flowing
from up his sleeve over his hand on to the floor.
This last-named accident was mainly due to the
fact of the guide to magic art neglecting to mention
that the conjurer should be careful to have
his eggs blown before venturing to experiment
with them, a fact which would certainly have
saved damage to Mrs Parkins's parlour carpet and
furniture. The good lady bore the same with
heroic fortitude, willing, I believe, to sacrifice all
lier belongings at Jerry's shrine, looking upon it
as doubly sanctified by the mysteries of his new
undertaking.

The Methodist pew-opener's sweetheart did not,
I may say, regard the favoured lodger's doings in
the same light. She described them as " doings
of the Evil One," and with difficulty could be got

to set foot inside the room where he sat in the old
leather arm-chair, a small table in front of him
covered with the requisites for his art, his guide
book on his knees, over which he bent  with his
wiry hair standing up erect on his forehead, and
his eyebrows meeting over his green eyes with a
great air of determination  while he gave, in a
tone of marked decision and emphasis, the directions
relative to his arrangement and shuffling of
a well-benumbed pack of cards, or the disposition
of various disappearing articles. She resolutely
refused " to take a card "  a request to which anyone
and every one within arm's reach of the
would-be conjurer was subjected, and on being
once an involuntary witness of the handkerchief
trick, in this instance successful, she gave notice
on the spot, declaring that if it was possible for'*
one man as didn't make no pretence of being a
laundress to wash and iron as quick as that without
no more fuss than waving his arms about as
though there were bees buzzing round his head,
she didn't see why he shouldn't as easily do all
the housework; and she at least wasn't going to
run the risk of one day seeing the brooms, dusters,
and flannels a-doing their work all by themselves.
It was more than any respectable girl could be
expected to stand."

Nothing would induce the young lady to change
her mind, and indeed the accounts with which she
favoured the other lodgers of the doings of the
being for whom their comforts were neglected  accounts,
however, which Jerry's supper completely

knocked on the head  made it advisable that her
resignation should be accepted. I may add that
she afterwards married the pew-opener, who, curiously
enough, a little later in life also exhibited a
predilection for sleight-offhand, which took the
form of practising the vanishing coin trick  exercising
the same upon the poor-box outside the
chapel where he was engaged, with a skill which
only experience could acquire.

Like our hero, his skill was not, however, infallible,
and one day, after listening with devout
and saintlike attention to a special charity sermon
which had resulted in a more than usually large
collection  he, like Jerry, failed to make the coins
he had borrowed for his own use disappear in his
usual ingenious way, and was straightway made to
vanish himself into the dim obscurity of the town
jail, leaving his wife, the ex-general servant, to
support herself and five children as best she could
in which sore straits I doubt not she often wished
she had been endued with the power of house
management which had made Mrs Parkins's lodger
so obnoxious to her righteous vision. Her place
in the service was taken by a country girl who
shared her mistress's veneration of our hero to such
a degree that, unlike her predecessor, it was with
difficulty that she could be induced to give up
haunting the doorway of the front parlour, a habit
which, though it supplied the conjuror with an
admiring and appreciative audience, did not add
to the comfort and enjoyment of the other members
of the establishment.

Conscious, from the earnestness with which these
two women followed his pursuit, that he had a
reputation to sustain, Jerry did not allow himself
to be disheartened by the little mishaps in his
efforts in the magic art, and while he looked eagerly
forward to the time when he should be at his old
place in the show once more, he found the days
thus occupied pass by no means disagreeably, until
something occurred which put patience and sleight-offhand
entirely out of his mind  something which,
though it was certainly an art of a kind, is, alas !
far too often to be fittingly called magic.

I have said that one of the most enjoyable
periods of the day was when he saw Lisette,
although her visits were not naturally all so delightful
as the first. It so happened that her way
to the circus lay past Mrs Parkins's lodging-house,
for which merciful dispensation of Providence Jerry
was deeply grateful, for twice a dfiy, sometimes
more, the little fancy-rider found it convenient to
return home to her own lodgings between the
two performances, for tea. This was rather a
tiring walk in the heat of the sun, for Lisette
would not afford any but Noxy poor lodgings on
the outskirts of the town; but who cares whether
the road is rough or smooth when one has a
pleasant companion % At least so Jerry argued.

He knew the times at which she was likely to
pass, and regularly took his stand, or rather his
seat, at the parlour window, peering over the box
of geraniums which ornamented the sill, in order
to catch sight of that little grey-robed figure and

the pretty face under the big straw hat with the
wreath of poppies  a wreath like he had once
woven for her before  before he had found out that
he was " too late."

Regularly every day he watched for her comings
though his only reward was a clasp of the little
hand in its cool mitten, and a chat over the geraniums,
Which, I am bound to own, did not escape
without injury, owing to Jerry's efforts to get a
nearer view of the said pretty face, which looked
up so merrily at him from under the poppies. This
with one who would never be anything to him buta
very dear friend.

But much as he enjoyed this forbidden fruit, I
fancy it was not without a dash of pain in it.

Truth to tell, he had ever present in his mind
those words of the ring-master's, " You have won
my heart. Do you believe I am true % One day
I will put you to the proof!" He often wondered
had the proof been asked for, and every day
when he returned Lisette's greetings, he wondered
whether she had this news to tell him, for
which he looked so eagerly, yet knew it would
come bitterly when " some day " was " to-day."

And surely that "to-day " was not far off.

No man, Jerry argued, would be so much in
love as he judged Carl Hermann to be, and yet
he put off forging so strong a link in the chain of
his happiness. He (Jerry) would be, he knew
the first in whom Lisette would confide her secret.
So day by day he waited and waited, expecting
what he knew must be coming. Every time he

saw the pretty, laiighiDg face over the geraniums
he thought, "Now it is coming. She looks happier
than ever this morning " ; or, " Ah, she has the
news this morning; there is a sober look in her
eyes," and so on, varying the expression from
grave to gay, and the reverse, and yet always a
false prophet.

Lisette called good morning to him over the
geraniums, inquired after his " disablement," as
she called it, expressed her sympathy, or remonstrated
with him when he showed signs of impatience
at his prolonged captivity, in her queer
broken English, which was so pleasant to his ear,
as merrily as though she was indeed the happiest
little body in the world; or listened eagerly to an
account of his success with some new trick, and
answered his inquiries as to how the show was
going on, in the most sober manner Jerry had
ever seen her assume, but never once did she give
any reason for her changeful mood such as Jerry
looked forward to hearing.

So he went on living day by day, as it were,
without so much as a thought of coming trouble,
until suddenly the knowledge was forced upon
him whether he would or no.

It was one afternoon when he was deep in the
magic art, that he was surprised by a visit from
none other than the worthy Charles Petman himself,
who, on Mrs Parkins ascertaining who he
was, was shown with much ceremony into the
parlour.

As he had just had a terrific row with one of the

grooms, in which, of course, he had come off, ashe
imagined, victor, the manager was in a far
better temper than usual.

He greeted the clown with many good-tempered
oaths, and swore roundly that he was worth those
fools *' Merry-ground, Here-we-are-again, and
Tomtit and the rest rolled into one," and vowed
if he didn't make some sort of an appearance soon
he would sue him for damages.

"Patchouli thinks he's a rare devil among the
girls. Epsom and Breakneck think the same, but
d  me, you can lick 'em into fits when you like,
though you ain't up to much when the paint's off.
The gals like a lark. When does that old idiot of
a Pills say you'll be all right ? "

He's given me another ten days, I think," said
Jerry laughing, not a little pleased, as most of us
are, to find we have been missed; "ten days'
solitary confinement. Pd rather it been hard
labour."

D you, why the devil couldn't you have

kept out of the way of mischief? "

He seemed quite to overlook the fact that it
was his own daughter who had been the cause
of the clown's mishap, and that if it was a loss
to him it was also such to the invalid, to say
nothing of the pain he had had to suffer.

Jerry, however, also overlooked the fact, and
expressed his regret at his enforced absence.

"It's a deuced annoying thing, just at the time
I can't afford to lose anyone. Here's first you,
and now Madame Petite off the list. Madame's

got one of her old attacks, they tell me, though

I'm d if I know what they mean, unless it's

temper, sulks, or something, because that hound
Epsom's been on the spree lately, though why
she wastes so much as a moment's thought on

him, me if I can understand. But there,

all women are fools, more or less. Anyhow,
Madame's sent word to-day that she can't appear.
It's a good thing Rosa happened to be in a good
temper and offered to take her place tomorrow,
or the show would be going to the devil, what
with the quadrille done away with altogether,
and the little Dutch girl winning every race  
for Madame was the only one among the rest who
made any show at all. But now Rosa will let her
see how to ride, I can tell you  not but what
Hartzmann knows a trick or two, and the Turk's
a good beast to go."

Not laying any particular meaning to this last
bit of news, though he wondered why Lisette had
not told him of it, but recollected afterwards how
long it was since he had had any long chat with
her, Jerry sympathised with Mr Petman on his
sorrows as a manager, and congratulated him asa
father, and then proceeded to listen to another
piece of news which that gentleman had come to
impart.

It seemed that so ill-informed had our hero been
of the true state of things at the show, that he was
totally unaware that the engagement at the Gardens
was near to its close, coming, in fact, to an
abrupt conclusion on the following day.

It appeared that the worthy manager had hoped
to " hold on " another week or so, but already the
weather showed signs of a final break up. More
than once the performance in the hippodrome had
suffered a serious interruption in the shape of a
sharp downpour, which had also materially affected
the attendance in the evening, and it was decided
to commence a series of winter concerts and entertainments
in the pavilion, the shelter of which, incase
of stormy weather, the people would be certain
to prefer to the not so durable tent.

Added to this, Mr Petman always declared himself
possessed of sufficient " 'cuteness " to know
when to " hold fast " and when to " leave go,"
and having so far made a good thing of his
tenancy in the Gardens, he decided it was time
to do the latter. Therefore, on the following
Monday (this was Friday) the show would lay
aside its whilom glory, and once more assume
its wandering habits. This resolution was furthered
by the knowledge that, owing to a colliery
strike at a neighbouring town, something might
be made out of the opportunity.

But a greater advantage was yet in store. It
seemed that on the morrow some royal personages
were expected at the town to open a line of railway
which had just been completed, and as their
visit was to be of at least two days' duration, it
was conjectured, not without reason, that they
would pay a visit to the Gardens as one of the
most prominent features of the town.

What was more likely than that they would be

desirous of witnessing a performance in the world-renowned
circus  at any rate, the manager meant
to "try and catch 'em," as he not too elegantly
phrased it. Everything was to be in " best bib
and tucker," and all resources were to contribute
to making a show worthy the occasion.

While Mr Petman made remarks to this effect,
Jerry did not yet perceive " what he was driving
at," as he phrased it, until on his breaking fresh
ground with some remarks about conjuring, he
began to see that the object of the visit was to
get him to consent to rejoin the show. On coming
to this conclusion, Jerry amused himself by
listening, while the mighty manager tried to bait
him, until at last he was driven into a corner, and
had to put the question " straight."

So out it came.

Would the clown, on promise of an extra consideration,
disobey the doctor's orders, run what
might be the risk of undoing the good already
done, to say nothing of putting himself into another
term of imprisonment, and contrive a turn
of some sort for the performance on the coming
eventful Saturday ? A rumour of his skill in conjuring
had reached Mr Petman, who at once caught
at the idea. A conjuring clown would be a novelty
hence his visit. Jerry's services must be secured
at any reasonable cost, and had our hero been a
little sharper than he was in such matters concerning
his own importance, he might have driven
a bargain greatly to his advantage.

He was, however, too much occupied with

weighing iu his own mind whether he ought or
ought not to accept the offer made to him, and at
length, being unable to quite settle the matter all at
once, said he would wait for the doctor's opinion,
but by the hopeful way in which he spoke, Mr
Petman was sure he had not wasted a little bit of
flattery for once, and went away rejoicing at his
skill as a diplomatist.

Truth to tell, it was by no means the unusually
fair words which the manager had used, which had
caused Jerry to be somewhat exuberant when referring
his decision to the doctor. Indeed, that
was, as he told himself, a " lame " excuse (treasuring
up this remark to bring in in some way when
he made his reappearance before the public). He
did not intend to apply to that worthy at all  he
had had enough of lotions and ointments, and had
began to think that his fear of suffering from his
injury for the rest of his days had been somewhat
traded upon, as indeed was more than
likely.

Now the prospect of obliging Mr Petman had
made the longing in our hero to be back in his
old place once more stronger than ever, and no
sooner was the door fairly closed behind that
gentleman, that he made the house ring with
such a wild " Wol-al-hoo, here we are again," as
had not gladdened his lips for many a long day ;
and when Mrs Parkins ran with the greatest speed
her portliness and sudden palpitation, caused by
the unearthly sound, would allow her, there washer
favourite lodger in high glee indulging in

such monkey-like antics as she afterwards declared
was enough to give her the creeps."

At the sight of the good old soul's very distressed
countenance, which plainly expressed her
fear that his long imprisonment had turned his
brain, Jerry came to a sudden standstill in a one-legged
hand-over-hander, and assured her in his
gravest manner of his perfect sanity.

It seemed that the familiar call and cry had
had a magical effect, and Jerry, as he expressed
it, " was all there again in a trice."

Mrs Parkins opined that it was lucky no one
in her house had as much as whispered the call
during the earlier stage of the clown's disablement,
for goodness knows what damage he might
then have done to his injured foot.

Even now, although he assured her that, contrary
to his expectation, the effort cost him
scarcely any pain at all, she was full of dismal
forebodings for the consequences of his " outbreak'*
It was vain for her to shake her head and wipe
away a fugitive tear on her apron, Jerry would
not be suppressed, and in answer to all ,her prophecies
gravely announced his intention of walking
on his head until his foot was quite well 
according to her idea of the matter, which of
course was better than his  straightway putting
his preaching into practice by walking down the
kitchen stairs the wrong way up and alighting
at the bottom of the flight with a double somersault,
which feat for ever afterwards stamped
him as a king among men in the eyes of the boy

who was cleaning the knives in the back
kitchen.

This youth was so impressed by the said feat,
that on the morrow, while at Sunday school, when
answering some questions concerning the angels
in Jacob's dream, he gave a rather original view of
their actions, and when corrected, stoutly declared
he " didn't see nothing wonderful in it at all. Mrs
Parkins's lodger 'd beat 'em into fits," adding, inexpressive
school, or rather street boy slang, a
description of the proceeding on which his belief
was founded  a description which might have
led to Mrs Parkins's back door being besieged by
inquiring infants eager for a sight of Jerry, right
way up or otherwise, had it not been for the
awful picture which the teacher drew, in which,
stamped by his answer as a " bad " boy, the knife-cleaner
was to go the way of all bad boys in story
books, and die an early and violent death.

I may say that not being a story-book boy,
such a fate did not overtake the precocious infant
in question. He lived to a ripe old age, retaining
to the last a deep reverence for the hero
of this narrative, to whom once more we return.

A VISIT AND ITS RESULTS.

It so happened that Jerry's delight at literally
finding his feet again led him to be a trifle
injudicious, and the feat which earned him such
lasting regard, reminded him, by means of a
slight twinge of pain in his injured member,
that he must not presume too much on his
recovery.

Hiding this fact from Mrs Parkins, for fear she
should take forcible means to prevent his carrying
out his intention of taking his turn as usuhI at
the show on the auspicious morrow, he wisely
determined to turn his attention to his conjuring,
in order to make a few tricks take the place of his
usual tumbling on that day, and until he should
be sufficiently' recovered, to reserve them as an
extra accomplishment.

He was just feeling considerably elated at
having successfully mastered the handkerchief
trick, which so completely upset the Methodist
pew-opener's Jiancde, and Mrs Parkins had just

dropped into the parlour for one of the innumerable
"little chats" in which she indulged during
the day, when an interruption took place, in the
shape of another visitor. This time it was
Snjith, the groom, who had been more than once
before to inquire after the invalid, but hitherto
had refused the landlady's most pressing invitations
to step inside, satisfied with sending his best
respects to Mr Jerry and osier of his services if he
could do anything for him.

On this occasion, however, having made his
usual inquiries and sent the same message 
receiving in return Jerry's thanks, but he was
well looked after at present ; all he could do was
to be well up to his work at the Gardens (zee.,
conscientiously fill his office of self-constituted
groom to a certain little artiste)  the groom did
not as usual excuse himself for having troubled
any one to open the door to him and shuffle in his
bashful way down the steps and back the way he
came. Although Mrs Parkins, a little put out at
having her tete-astute spoilt, was hardly as pressing
as usual for him to come in  an invitation
which he as resolutely declined as on former
occasions  he seemed to have some hesitation in
quitting the doorstep and required Mrs Parkins
to repeat the message, until at length that worthy
lady fairly lost patience. Her inquiry as to
whether he wanted to know anything more was
not calculated to inspire the groom with any
extra confidence.

It reached Jerry's ears, together with Smith's

reply in his uncertain, hesitating tones. He
quickly interpreted the latter into a desire to see
him, and at once called out his intention of going
to the door himself if his visitor did not at once
step inside."

Upon this, after carefully wiping his feet on the
mat, a totally unnecessary proceeding, as the dust
was nearly blinding in the roads, and refusing
to trust his hat to the hatstand, Smith was at
length induced to introduce his lank, ungainly
figure into the parlour.

Here the sight of Jerry, surrounded by his
conjuring tricks," as he afterwards described it
had much the same effect upon him as upon the
Methodist's sweetheart, and much as Jerry tried
to set him at his ease, it was not until by a
dexterous movement that he had hidden the
tricks " under the handkerchief, that he entertained
any hopes of ascertaining the cause of the
groom's rather confused manner.

It was plain there was something amiss with
him, for allowing for the nervousness consequent
upon his interview with Mrs Parkins, he was even
slower in speech and more cautious in manner
than usual, and Jerry, after finding all manoeuvres
and stratagem in vain, was in despair at ever
finding out the important something which he,
the groom, evidently had come on purpose to
impart to him and yet seemed to find such a
difficulty in so doing.

Our hero thought to get at it by a roundabout
way, and began by asking how things were getting
VOL. II. D

on with the show, determining to say nothing of
his reappearance, in case of disappointment.

Things is fine, sir, fine ; at least the audience
is," with a significant stress on the reservation,
which Jerry noting asked rather anxiously, 

"No accident last night, I hope," visions of the
Turk having evinced vicious propensities making
the clown start and sit upright in his seat.

*' Oh no, the 'os is all right ; behaves as though
he knew who his mistress was," said with an air
of defiance which conveyed to the listener that
gone one else's " 'os " had not been behaving in a
manner befitting his owner.

"Any of the other horses been up to their
tricks, then, the Emperor, Day star, or  "

Ah, Daystar hasn't had the devil in him for
some time now, and hadn't need have." The
emphasis this time on " Daystar " and the angry
look on the groom's ugly scarred face, made Jerry
sure that he was right in the conjecture that if
that animal had not had a fit of the tempers lately
some one else had.

Surely," he said, in a voice which had an
ominous ring in it, " surely Epsom hasn't dared
plague you again because I wasn't there to defend
you."

Lor', no, sir, he won't try hitting me again, I
fancy," and Smith's mouth dropped a bit at the
corners. He knew there were other ways by
which the jockey could torment him than by
bodily injury. " And if he had, I shouldn't have
come here to worry you. I ain't worth your

troubling about, nor anyone else for that matter."
Again that mysterious emphasis which left Jerry
as much in the dark as ever. This was more than
he could stand.

Never before had the groom's slowness of speech
and thought roused in him anything but pity.
Now, he was fast losing patience, and finding it
of no use to try and drag out his information by
means of stratagem, he determined to go straight
to the point.

"Now look here, Smith," he said, fixing his eyes
sternly on the fellow's face as he sat playing nervously
with his shabby hat, " I know you have
got something to tell me. It's no use beating
about the bush. I'm not good at catching at
straws, so just out with what you've got to say,"
and being suddenly struck with the idea whether
fear of any consequences which might ensue was
the difficulty, " don't be afraid any harm '11 come
of it. You can trust me. Now, then, what is it ? "

At first it seemed likely that Smith, after shying
at the former manoeuvres, would at this very
direct one, bolt altogether had not Jerry held him
sternly in check with that steady glance of his
fiery grey-green eyes.

But although he was fully prepared for some
strange disclosure on the groom's part, he fairly
.recoiled at the statement, or rather suggestion,
which did come in one quick, short sentence very
unlike his usual blundering utterance.

Look here," he said, suddenly leaving off
whirling his cap, and returning the clown's glance

LIBRARY

with one of equal warmth, " Look here, ye're in
love with her, aren't yer ?  yer know who I mean
Lisette Hartzmann. Yer wouldn't give me a
chance of so much as to leave a blessed buckle of
that Turk's harness undone, let alone lay a finger
on her cloak. If it hadn't have been for some one
else as slipped into yer place while you was away
we'd just be her sweetheart out and out, wouldn't
yer"

Was ever a question on such a tender subject
more direct %

Poor Jerry ! Here all this time he had been
comforting himself with one thought in his
trouble, and one which the pride of nature he
possessed had prompted, and that was that at
least his feelings were unknown to any one save
himself.

Like many heroes who have been disappointed
in love he inwardly rejoiced that his secret was
his alone. He bore his pain and bitter disappointment
without even a word of sympathy. Better
this than she in whom he lead placed his trust
should have one thought of regret that she should
have been unable to control her affections to dim
the brightness of her happiness. If the truth
became known it should have been wrung from
him in the dead of night under most thrilling
circumstances by his deadliest enemy, his rival,
or breathed in gasps like a dying man's confession
into the ear of some faithful friend who would be
too much overcome to give any more substantial
comfort than that expressed by wringing the hapless

lover's hand, at the same time keeping his
gaze fixed anywhere but on the face of the same,
unwilling to see the tale of sorrow repeated on its
noble features.

The true view of the matter did not, I am sure,
present itself in such glowing colours of sentimentalism
as this, and once more I have to present
Jerry to my reader in a situation totally at
variance with his character as hero.

Alas for romance ! Instead of being in either
of the situations already described, here was he
a very common-place figure in his ill-fitting
conjurer's suit  accommodated with capacious
pockets for his tricks  his injured foot encased
in a huge felt boot, at the back of his head a
smoking-cap  a most gorgeous affair, orange and
green in colour, extra ornamented with a mass of
gold braid, the whole a present from the enamoured
widow  sitting bolt upright in the old
leathern arm-chair, transfixing the groom with
his determined gaze, the fellow looking with his
sleepy, bleared blue eyes into his face while
he made his statement, which would take no
denial.

Jerry did not attempt it.

For a moment, so abrupt was this sudden
charge at his secret, he could not say a word.
Only all of a sudden the half-angry, half-laughing
look died out of his grey-green eyes, and it was
his turn to be unable to face his companion. Some
words he was about to utter were stayed on his
lips. He suddenly turned away his head, and

seemed to become intent upon studying the wallpaper.


For some moments there was silence in the
parlour. Smith's burst of eloquence seemed to
have rendered him perfectly overcome. He was
once more absorbed in plaiting the greasy lining
of his hat with feeble, nervous fingers.

Presently Jerry turned his head very slowly,
and there was a gleam of defiance in his eyes now,
as though he meant to resent this ruthless intrusion
into his confidence. One thought uppermost
in his mind was that if this dullard, with his half
wits, had penetrated his secret, what was more
likely than that others had done so also ? Others
who, with perhaps different motives, would blazon
it abroad, and put an end for ever to his brotherly-friendship,
where all else was impossible.

The first thought which forced itself into his
mind was the doubt as to the light in which his
love affair might be looked upon by his successful
rival. And those other ears which it might reach
would they by-and-by cover his poor little story
with a cloak of ridicule, which would make him
and all concerned a laughing-stock for all the
coarse jests and jokes of his so-called friends, and
without doubt also of his enemies, few as these
were, who would readily seize upon this occasion
for showing off their so-called wit?

But then again rose the more unselfish idea as
to how Lisette's gentle, childlike nature would be
grieved at the blow she had so involuntarily inflicted
upon her old friend's happiness. Yes, she

would be grieved, and that, perhaps, all through
the blundering stupidity of this silly fellow.

It was this last thought which roused the gleam
of anger to Jerry's eyes, and when he did turn his
head there were harsh words on his lips.

These, however, were never uttered. If anything
was calculated to calm the young clown's
irritation  never of a very lasting nature  it was
the sight of Lisette's devoted slave in his simplicity,
innocent of wherein he had offended, his dull
face for once illumined by a look of intelligence ashe
awaited the answer to his very home question.

Remembering in whose interest it was he had
taken what must have been for him untold pains
to solve this problem, and at the same time overcome
his usual bashfulness to give words to the
solution, it seemed impossible to quench his
ardour, even though it was perhaps misplaced.

It might have occurred to Jerry that in this poor
fellow's wandering mind there was a dim, half-formed
idea that in this little German girl he saw
the one gentlewoman who in all the world was
worthy of his adoration, servile as it was  an idea
which was but the bud which had developed into
the beautiful, full-blown blossom in Jerry's mind,
which yet he compared to such a disadvantage
with the more delicate moss-rose of one who was
more worthy than he of the place he coveted. At
any rate, at the sight of him waiting so patiently
for the answer which could not be a denial, instead
of an angry retort at his stupidity, and an inquiry
as to how far he had misused his knowledge, there

came a look of pity into Jerry's face, not for himself,
but for him who far more needed it.

He hesitated a moment, then met the expectant
gaze as frankly as it was raised, and half unconsciously
laying his hand on the rough, shabby
black coat sleeve, said very quietly, almost tenderly
 both because of the thought that this poor
fellow was suffering under the same blow as himself,
and because this was a subject upon which to
his warm-hearted nature it seemed he could not
speak with harsh, angry tones, owing to some
unconscious influence, which makes even the least
reverent of us all speak with hushed voices in a
sacred edifice, 

So you have found out my secret, have you?
I thought no one but myself knew. But it seems
you have sharper eyes than the rest, and it's no
use trying to hide the truth. I did think once
upon a time that what you've guessed might
happen; but, you see, it wouldn't do for us to
have everything we wanted, so I'm going to try
and get along as best I can, like I did before 
before I found out what you know."

He paused, half afraid to say more, lest he
should betray too much, inwardly hoping that he
had made himself sufficiently clear to Smith's dull
brain to avoid any further explanation.

It seemed he had done so, for the groom, without
removing his eyes from the floor, where he
was studying with sleepy interest the bright
intricate pattern of the carpet, nodded his head
with an air of great wisdom, and said gravely, 

"I know  I know  I can see more than folks
think, though I ain't as sharp in saying out what
I mean as I might be. No, I ain't good at
speechifying, but what I ses I means, and IVe
seen how things be with you and the party in
question. I've had my eyes open"  (at their
widest extent these orbs would not have gained
much in comparison with those of the pig tribe ;
but, nevertheless, according to the owner's declaration,
they were by no means defective in
vision)  "and I've seen as how you're ready to
worship the very ground she walks on. Satin and
diamonds aren't good enough for her. It's my
belief, if you could get her a pair of angel's wings
and let her go straight to heaven, you'd be content.
And I ain't going to say but what you're
right ; and what's more, I ain't going to stand by
and see things going on as they are."

After this second long speech the groom came
to a sudden full stop, just when he had raised
Jerry to the very tiptoe of expectation as to what
he could possibly mean by his repeated innuendoes.
It was very evident that something of great importance
had occurred to rouse his rather defective
" speechifying " power to such an effort.

Jerry waited a few moments to see if he would
be able to take up the point where he had left off;
but as he was once more absorbed in his study of
the carpet, Jerry himself took up the ball, and
ii.ade another dash at some sort of conclusion.

Things going on how ? "

As, in response to this broad hint, Smith still

hesitated, Jerry determined to see what sternness
would do.

*' Now, look here, Smith, I can see there's something
the matter, and that something has to da
with somebody in whom we are both interested.
What is it % "

But it was useless to try and drag the required
information out of the groom's muddled brain.
He seemed to have hopelessly lost the clue of his
discourse, and all Jerry could get out of him was
dark hints, accompanied by ominous shakes of the
head, the total of which was that something was
seriously amiss at the show, something which
seriously affected " somebody" in whom Jerry had
more than ordinary interest, and that if he wanted
to find a more explicit reading of the riddle " he
had best come and see for himself."

This last contingency was evidently the summary
of the groom's desire, and having expressed
it, he seemed much relieved, if not comforted, and
rose wither great show of haste to go, as though
he had not wasted so many moments in studying
the carpet with so much deliberation.

Jerry therewith inwardly announced his intention
of coming to see, but, for reasons known only
to himself, kept the conditions of his coming a
secret.

Before, however, the groom finally took his
departure, he regarded Jerry with a searching
look from his sleepy eyes, and, seeming for an instant
to awake to a sense of consciousness and
understanding, said abruptly and with great haste,

as though he were anxious to take hold of the
idea before it filtered through his sieve-like
mind : 

Look here, I didn't mean to tell yer as how I
snowed about you and her, but it slipped out
somehow, like most things do. It won't my fault
I found it out. I ain't as usual quick at seeing
things, but it come to me somehow. I'm mighty
sorry, cuss me if I ain't, and so would she be if she
knew, but"  reassuringly, as Jerry tried to speak
"she don't, at least not now, no more don't no
one, and I shan't split, you bet. I don't suppose
as how I should have known, only I heard you once
say to her, ' We're always going to be friends
Liz?' and somehow the way you ses it makes methinks
you was what the boys calls spooney, only
in a different sort of way. So I watches, and
thinks as how it's all going on all right until you
goes away and  you goes away and  well, goes
away and comes back again. Then I sees as
there's summit Avrong, but I don't give up watching,
not I, and that's why I comes here to-day and
tells you to come and see. That's all." Then
with a sudden incomprehensible earnestness, as
though that unintelligible longing within him had
made itself felt and moved him to the impulse,
"You don't mind my knowing, do you? If I
hadn't I shouldn't have known who to go to.
You're her 'friend,' you know, and you'd say what
was best, but if you don't like me to know, I'll try
and forget all about it, because I'd do anythiugfor
you and her. You're the only two in the world

as ever went out of your way to do me a kindness."


Evidently in this half-witted lad's mind ingratitude
was a deadly sin, and one of which he scorned
being guilty.

There was no mistaking the sincerity of his
speech. Jerry felt suddenly a total change of
feeling Which made it seem balm to his sorrow
that this poor rough fellow should "know "and
sympathise.

It's all right," he said quietly, wringing the
groom's rough stained hand. " We both think
the same about her in our way. We're about the
only friends she's got besides him, and we're going
to stick by her through thick and thin if she wants
us."

A sudden strange, unintelligible look had come
into the groom's face during one portion of the
foregoing speech, but at the last words it cleared
again. He returned Jerry's grasp with one of
great fervour, then squashed his hat over his eyes,
and, without another word, blundered out into the
hall, banged the door with great violence after
him, and not so much as once glancing behind,
shuffled off down the street at great speed, considering
the heat.

After he had gone, Jerry, thinking it in vain to
try and make sense of what had passed between
them, felt confident in his own mind that his visitor
had got some confused idea into his head,
perhaps without a particle of reason. At any
rate he woidd satisfy his doubts at the earliest

opportunity. Here was an additional reason for
his paying his projected visit to the show, when
he would certainly follow Smith's example of
keeping his eyes wide open.

Having arrived at this decision  determining
to put the subject entirely from him, hoping by
this means to get rid of a vague feeling of uneasiness,
which in spite of his want of belief in the
groom's powers of discernment (had he not proved
himself capable in discovering the clown's
secret V) would force its way into his mind, he
once more turned his attention to his conjuring,
did his best to concentrate his thoughts upon some
new departure in the magic art, gave this up and,
to try and restore the cheerful state of equanimity
which the coming of his visitor had overthrown,
essayed once more the handkerchief trick.

This he accomplished with even more ease than
before  a circumstance which should have at least
charmed back the air of wonted cheerfulness to
his brow.

But such was not the case.

The success which he had striven after so long
no longer caused him any thrill of enjoyment or
triumph. Metaphorically speaking the tricks were
a failure, the magician's thoughts were indulging
in sleight-offhand on their own account, and at
last, with the double-edged reflection that hands
and hearts must even in an ordinary way go together,
the ' tricks " were hidden under their usual
covering, the gorgeous handkerchief, and throwing
himself back with a gesture of impatience  very

unusual in him  Jerry gave himself up to his
reflections, for the first time for many weeks allowing
himself the luxury of a good think.

Hitherto he had looked upon the pleasure as
rather dangerous to any one in his frame of mind,
and avoided it in consequence, undertaking his
voluntary fast with a perseverance which any
young would-be penitent might have envied.

Now, however, perhaps with the recollection ot
this late visitor's rough but kindly sympathy to
unlock the drawers of memory, in which lay still,
fresh and green with all the charm of beauty and
sweet fragrance yet clinging to them, the 
flowers of his first and only love, he sought
no longer to resist the sad delight of living over
again those days when, for fear of losing all
by daring too much, as Smith had expressed it,
"" he had gone away and come back again "  come
back to find it too late.

How well he recalled every step of the way
which had ended so suddenly in that stern impassable
no thoroughfare  "too late."

Yes, he recalled it all  that dreary wet night so
many months ago when he had been lucky enough
io save a timid fearful girl from the rough insults
of a set of drunken idlers  a stranger girl with a
.sad, weary face, lit up by those beautiful brown eyes
whose thanks had been far more implicit than those
few broken English sentences uttered by trembling
lips ; the advent of the little fancy-rider into the
.show, when her dainty highness in her fresh satin
robes had deigned to claim his acquaintance, and

who in the days which followed clung to him as
it were with a child-like confidence which had
ripened the healthy bud of friendship into the
beautiful full-blown blossom, "love," which now
lay withering and fading in that hiding-place for
all joys and sorrows  '* memory."

These sacred tokens of " what might have been"
had already been touched  gently, it is true  by
one stranger's touch ; but now they had once seen
light, would others handle them and scatter the
withered leaves With a ruthless hand? As he
called to mind his own storm-tossed harvest, there
rose in Jerry's mind a knowledge of the brighter
but not more beautiful blossoms which it had been
the happier lot of some one else to pluck.

Thus he sat alone in the silence of the little parlour,
looking out into the busy, noisy street beyond,
but heeding nothing that passed without,
only seeing in fancy over the tall dusty geraniums,
with their bright gaudy flowers, the pretty face
under the big shady straw hat with its wreath of
poppies, which for so many days past had called
him merry greeting to cheer his captivity. Yes,
there it was, the same face with the beautiful nutbrown
eyes, which when he had first seen them
had been full of a sadness and dreariness such ashe
unconsciously prayed he might never see in
them again ; there they were, peeping at him
over the leafy screen as Lisette stayed on the
pavement, all unheedful of the passers-by, to chat
with the captive ; softening with pity for his pain
for Jerry's injury was of a far more serious

nature than he had at first supposed  while
she gave him what comfort she could (and [that
was far more than she knew) ; growing merry
again as she reported how well things were prospering
with the show, opening wide with fearful
remonstrance when, impatient at the bustle and
sunshine without, he vowed to escape from his
burdensome captivity ; sparkling with fun when
she recounted some little pleasure which she had
had, and growing soft again, almost grave, when
by some chance word Jerry would try as it were
to open the way for the news which as yet he had
never heard.

As he recalled these changing shades and
moods, the knowledge came unconsciously to
Jerry that once the sparkles and gleams of light
which spoke of sunshine within had never failed
his searching gaze, but lately he had been led
more often to expect that for which he waited,
because of a deeper shade which had dimmed the
brightness.

And with this knowledge came a sense of
another change which had gradually crept over
his intercourse with his little friend.

Once, as we have seen, she had, all unheedful of
the passers-by, stayed before his window to talk
with him, often incurring the risk of racing
through the rest of her journey, for fear of being
late at the Gardens.

After a time, no doubt finding a hurried walk in
the heat of the sun, which, however, as autumn was
fast approaching, did not increase but rather decreased

in power, hardly a favourable preparation
for her performance in the ring, she less often, and
at last, never so fatigued herself.

This husbanding of her powers was not effected
by her starting any the earlier for the Gardens,
but was made the excuse for her gradually shortening
her very promiscuous tete-astute with the
captive, till at last a brief greeting and inquiry
was all that was interchanged in lieu of the former
friendly intercourse.

But even this state of affairs suffered a change.
She who was usually so punctual in starting at
least, for it would not have done to have kept
some one waiting at the meeting-place, which was,
strangely enough, at the end of the very street in
which Mrs Parkins's lodging-house was situated,
should he find it possible for him to be there,  the
little fancy-rider, I say, who was once so punctual,
suddenly took a fit into her head to start at all
sorts of strange times, so that unless the watcher
at the window took up his position very early at
his post, he was more than likely to miss her
greeting.

Sometimes fully an hour before the show even
opened, the brown eyes would peep for a moment
over the geraniums, and without any further
greeting than a wave of the hand, pass on ; at
others, when he had entirely given up all idea of
seeing her, something would call him to the window
in time to see a grey-robed figure vanishing
in the distance.

Yes, the friendly chat had been thus slowly re-vol.
II. E

duce to what might have been called " a bowing
acquaintance," a nod and smile, a wave of the
hand, and sometimes not even this. Lisette, in
total forgetfulness of the patient watcher, would
go with feet strangely lagging  no doubt she was
tired  past the window, with her eyes on the
ground, and without even a cheery look in his
direction.

Nay, more than this, more than once lately he
had determined not to be so baulked of his little
pleasure, and resolutely persisted in his watch,
but only to be five out of six times disappointed.

*' Ah," he would say to himself, " she must have
slipped by while I was talking to Mrs Parkins,"
or, *' This side of the road is so crowded, no doubt
she would walk on the other," and such-like excuses,
which had always satisfied him at the time,
but which now occurred to him certainly without
tending to solve the riddle proposed by the
groom.

What could be the meaning of it all? Whence
came the cloud which seemed to have risen between
the two friends ; surely it was over himself
that the shadow had fallen, and not over little
Lisette?

During his captivity, what was more likely than
that he had got silly fancies into his mind ; or
even suppose the little fancy-rider had been so
much taken up with her lover that she had no
smiles and merry looks for him, why should he
construe it into a foreboding of evil?

Bah ! he would put away these idle fancies, such

as any silly love-sick lover would have indulged
in, and on the morrow he would laugh heartily at
himself for having entertained them. He would
see Lisette and her handsome lover walking side
by side in the sunshine, telling the world, if not in
words, at least in actions, that no proof of what
each felt was needed.

But even while he pictured in his own mind
this happiness for one he loved, as half awake,
half dreaming, he unconsciously kept watch at the
window, suddenly it seemed to him that a face
appeared once again over the geraniums, a face
with eyes which had so often smiled and danced
under his glance, but which now were robbed of
their brightness by a look of sadness and weariness
such as had won his heart that dreary night,
when they had thanked him for his kindness, a
look such as he had so lately prayed he might
never see in them again.

So unlike were they in expression to what he
had imagined them in the pretty tableau of love
and happiness, that for a moment the dreamer remained
spellbound as it were.

Then he sprang to his feet, drew aside with a
ruthless hand the lace curtains, Mrs Parkins's pride,
which hung over the window, and peered down
the street.

Surely it was only his fancy playing him tricks
again ; that woe-begone countenance had been
conjured up by his own imagination.

Yet, no, for there, half way down the road,
walking with slow steps, as though weary, her

head slightly bent as though to hide her face from
those who passed her on the way, went the well-known,
well-beloved grey-robed figure, alone, and
walking not in the sunshine but in the shadow.

A moment he saw her, then she was lost in the
crowd which thronged the street, and once more
he was left alone with his thoughts. It was then,
and not till then, that he began to understand
that the cloud which had risen was not over him,
but over some one else whom he loved far better
than any one in the whole world besides.

For the rest of the evening Mrs Parkins found
her favourite lodger far from the agreeable companion
he usually proved himself.

And small wonder. How could he joke and
laugh with the memory of those tear-bedimmed
eyes in his mind, a memory which haunted him
sadly during the night, so that he dreamt  but
there, dreams are silly things, as he told himself
on waking.

And with that he turned over and went to sleep
once more and dreamt the same dream again.

BLIND TRUST.

'Our friend Jerry woke on the following morning
with that strange incomprehensible feeling which
is common to all of us at certain times in our
lives, the feeling that "something was going to
happen."

At first he regarded the sensation with some of
his superstition of the evening before, but after a
little his usual common-sense prevailed. There
is nothing more potent in destroying unhealthy
fancies and ideas, in my opinion, than sunshine,
and next to that, in Jerry's, a good breakfast.

Therefore it is not surprising that on descending
to the parlour " the right way up "  much to the
disappointment of the " bad " boy  and finding a
substantial breakfast of eggs and ham, toast and
coffee, provided for him by his admiring landlady
small wonder that the other lodgers, after such
a scanty meal as their limited means could afford,
passed the parlour with their nasal organ sightly
elevated  it is not, I say, surprising that at the

sight of the good things set out for his benefit
with the morning sun making the homely plate
and china service look brighter than ever any
amount of rubbing and scrubbing could make it,
Jerry was inclined to take a more cheerful view
of the matter, indeed of things in general, than
before, although he could not entirely shake ofiT
the strange impression which had come to him on
waking.

He was more than sorry to know that, save for
his last appearance, he would not enjoy the advantages
of the engagement at the Gardens ; but
having sagely decided that it was no use crying
over spilt milk, for more reasons than one he
rejoiced at the fact that he was able to pay the
visit he intended. At the same time he looked
forward to being once more on the road, having
fully made up his mind that nothing should
prevent him from starting with the rest of the
company.

He made this declaration to himself with great
emphasis, perhaps to assure himself against any
obstacle Mrs Parkins might raise; and though
not expecting the scene which I have already
described as following his presentation of the
Dutch clock in lieu of the Chinese idol, he
deemed it wise to make his farewell as short
as possible. He therefore delayed even speaking*
of it until the last moment.

During his imprisonment he had paid some
attention to his theatrical wardrobe, and provided
himself with a new and gorgeous dress

of red, green, and yellow, a perfect marvel in
its way. This he disposed into his small bag,
together with such materials as were necessary
for the tricks he intended to introduce, and he
was ready to start for his work.

These slight preparations were made in almost
boyish glee, so buoyant had his spirits become ;
and after many motherly injunctions from Mrs
Parkins to take care of himself, and, for all the
royal personages in the world, not to run any
risk of future injury, he was at length allowed
to depart.

Mrs Parkins would herself have been present
at the show on this grand occasion, but for the
fact that she and the Methodist pew - opener's
sweetheart were elbow deep in a six - weeks'
wash.

So Jerry, nothing loath to do so, started off
alone. He had half a mind to wait for Lisette,
that they might go together, but on second
thoughts decided that he should take longer
to perform the journey than she would. She
might not like to go through the streets with
him, limping and with a stick ; besides, to say
the real truth, so confused was he in his own
mind as to what he had got to say to her,
what he was going to do to keep himself from
forcing from her some solution of the riddle
which was so puzzling him, that he decided he
had best see how things were first before he
came to any conclusion at all.

Thus a little after one o'clock saw him walking

in the direction of the Gardens at a pretty good
pace, far greater than he had expected to be able
to assume. His foot responded right nobly to the
impulse which bade him hasten.

After a little, however, he somewhat lessened
his speed, for the idea had just occurred to him
that perhaps a certain little lady might overtake
him.

Nor were his hopes doomed to disappointment.
About a quarter of an hour after he had started,
he was watching with interest an angry altercation
between the driver of an overloaded donkey
cart and a very resolute policeman, when suddenly
a slight girlish figure brushed by him, and before
he could look round was already some paces in
front of him.

For a few moments he was in doubt, then
became suddenly conscious that fast-retreating
form was she for whom he had been lingering
the slight figure, grey-robed no longer, but
clad in a becoming costume of cheap cotton,
brightened by Madame Petite's artistic fingers
with a touch of gay ribbons, and wearing a little
lace fichu sparkling with beads, which danced
and glistened in the sunlight, a high-crowned
hat covered with a mass of soft creamy lace and
carelessly-arranged flowers crowning the head
of soft brown curls, which Lisette had always
hitherto, with a ruthless hand, done her best to
reduce to order by means of a sober band
of black velvet, but which now fell in confusion
round the prettily-moulded neck  in all

such a dainty picture that it is small wonder
that for the space of a few seconds Jerry almost
came to a standstill on the pavement.

Of course, to one with his feelings, disguise
ought to have been impossible ; but, in truth,
this sudden and totally unexpected transformation
from a veritable little Quakeress to the
gayest of dainty summer butterflies was enough
to have taken away the breath of any one far
more capable of sustaining a pleasant surprise
than my hero.

There he stood like a booby, as he afterwards
told himself, stock still on the pavement, no doubt
to the annoyance of more than one hurrying
passer-by  stood looking with all eyes  I mean
with every scrap of vision power  concentrated
upon the figure which was rapidly receding before
him.

How long he would have remained thus  spellbound
by what was after all not such a very remarkable
vision on a warm summer's day : only
a pretty little girl in a very becoming cotton dress
it is impossible to say ; but, fortunately for his
personal safety and the tempers of those passengers
in whose way he stood, before she had
gone many steps Lisette stayed a moment to
glance round her.

Whether she was expecting to meet some one,
I cannot say ; but luckily her action made her
aware of Jerry's presence. In a moment she had
retraced her steps, and with a pretty gesture of
surprise  the like of which one might seek in vain

from the most graceful English girl  she held out
both her hands to him with a smile of welcome
which there was no mistaking.

Is it my friend % " she asked, in a clear, glad
voice.

Had Jerry been a reader of poetry he might
have quoted some one else's answer to this question,
and said something about somebody trusting
him in all things ; but I am sorry to say that my
hero's taste for anything in the shape of rhyme
did not extend any higher than a comic song,
none of which at that moment occurred to him
as being particularly appropriate to the occasion.


In lieu of these  from sheer force of habit (I
am bound to relate the true facts of the case, in
spite of their want of the varnish of romance) his
answer was a well-worn ring phrase. As he shook
with great heartiness the hand extended to him,
he said, 

Yes, here I am again."

This not very striking ceremony over, he again
became speechless, but, fortunately, was able to
continue his interrupted walk with a decent show
of regard to outward appearances, while his companion
saved him the trouble of talking by monopolising
the whole of the conversation herself,
heartily expressing her gladness that he was well
enough to make his reappearance, although she
did not say she had missed him during his absence.

It was just as well she did talk on, for although
Jerry was conscious of every word  broken as

some of them were  which fell from her lips, 1
doubt if he perfectly understood the same.

Not so many of the passers-by, who, attracted
by the clear, silvery tones and quaintly-worded
sentences which reached their ears, more than
once turned and looked with not a little openly-expressed
approval at the speaker, smiling at her
very naive utterances.

Jerry, as he walked along, smiled too  nay,
more than once found himself laughing aloud,
which, strangely enough, was just what he had
said he should do when he should find himself in
the little fancy-rider's presence, who would at
once solve his riddle for him.

Where were his dismal forebodings now ? What
faith would he ever place in the common sense he
had been wont to look upon as so infallible when,
after brooding over silly fancies created by a half-silly
fellow, he lead done a little bit of conjuring,
which was a far greater waste of time than the
vanishing coin-trick, being, in fact, its very opposite,
by conjuring up from his memory the face
he loved, when it had been full of sorrow and
weariness, so that it had haunted him even in his
dreams ?

Bah, how easily his silly trick had been exposed
!

One glance at the daintily-clad figure beside
him as completely dispelled his feverish illusion
as does a gleam of summer sunshine disperse the
gathering clouds.

Clouds ! who speaks of anything so dismal ?

Who would dare breathe such heresy as to say-even
the faintest shadow was overhead to dim
this fairy-ike creature's radiant happiness ?

No wonder Jerry laughed so heartily at his folly.

What could have been a greater contrast to
his gloomy visions of the night before than to
see this real Lisette fairly dancing along in the
sunshine by his side, in all the gaiety of her dainty
costume of soft falling white material with its
bright touches of ribbons and snowy lace ; what
have breathed more defiance at his strange remembrance
of tear-bedimmed eyes and pale
cheeks, than the pretty face and eyes sparkling
with excitement, looking up at him so confidingly
from under that captivating little edifice of twisted
straw and carelessly-entwined flowers ?

What could have been a greater contrast, I say
again % What, indeed ! Unless it was the figure
by her side, that of my poor hero, who seems to
be bent on showing himself in his worst colours.

I say this with reason, and I think for once
Jerry himself, as he took in all the details of the
picture presented to his gaze, also became slightly
conscious that he was scarcely in harmony with it.

So occupied had he been with what the view
of " things " might be, and satisfied with his ring
dress, that he completely forgot to pay any extra
attention to his outside toilet. Thus behold him
in his ill-fitting pepper-and-salt suit, which, like
most of his clothes, looked as though it had been
made for some one of far more robust proportions
than himself, he not being able to afford a visit to

a first-class tailor's, though I doubt if even then,
owing to some little defect in nature's intention
when she moulded his manly form, a more satisfactory
" fit " could have been obtained  the said
suit, owing to his have worn it constantly during
his imprisonment, and as I having already said, been
subject to some alterations for the better indulgence
of his sleight-offhand propensities, being
somewhat "baggy" in appearance. His necktie
had once been of a bright crimson in colour, ornamented
with a profusion of large yellow horseshoes,
but time had mercifully reduced its brightness
to a far less appalling hue. This appendage,
as my reader will no doubt imagine, from the
circumstances under which he was placed, had as
usual sought the vicinity of his right ear, Adhere
it stuck up with fiery stiffness, while his hat, incompliance
with his custom when enjoying a leisurely
stroll, was tilted slightly at the back of his
head, completing an ensemble which by the greatest
stretch of imagination I can hardly describe as
artistic or stylish.

Not accustomed to regard his beauty as that of
the Adonis type, Jerry did not attempt to disguise
from himself that the meaning of several glances
which he saw turn from him to his companion and
back again was hardly of a complimentary nature
to himself. In fact, he did not feel at all disconcerted
when he heard a tall, fashionably-dressed
young swell with stick, collar, eyeglass, waxed
moustache, false teeth, carefully curled hair, crimson
silk handkerchief and all, say to a companion,

in that languid drawl which is such a mark of
good breeding and blue blood, after a prolonged
stare at the little fancy-rider, which was a distinct
denial of both, "What a deuced queer couple!
They're not * spoons I should think. Devilish
pretty girl ; but what a cut for a man ! Makes
one think that fellow Darwin knew something
after all."

Even if Jerry had been well read enough to
have understood the meaning of the reference to
the exponent of the man versus monkey theory, I
do not suppose his honesty of nature would have
allowed him to resent very greatly the inference.
Instead he was taken up with stealing admiring
glances at Lisette as she tripped along beside
him, heartily, but in less coarse language, endorsing
the bold criticism of her ; and while he could
not resist a sigh that it was not only outwardly
that the contrast was so great, his heart was full
of unselfish happiness that the fears which he had
entertained were so unfounded.

So on the two walked, chatting gaily as they
had so often done in days gone by, only that
every now and then Lisette would glance round
her quickly, as though expecting to see another
friend, noting which, Jerry at once began to cast
about for some excuse by means of which he
should be able to escape spoiling the lovers' tete-tete,
should there be any addition to the party.

He might, however, have spared himself the
trouble of planning this manoeuvre, for the cause
for it did not appear ; and though he thought he

could detect a gleam of disappointment in the
laughing brown eyes, Lisette talked on as gaily
as ever until they entered the gardens.

Here, upon passing through the gates, Jerry
saw the announcement of the two performances
of the show, in which for the last time the greatest
attractions were to be set forth. Among the
many wonders so gorgeously announced in flaming
letters, he found himself described as the world-renowned
conjuring clown (the importance that
this glaring advertisement gave to his attempts
in the magic art !), and in larger letters than all
was announced Miss Rosa Petman's marvellous
performance on the well-known "fire horse"
Bonfire, in which she would ride him among
lighted lamps, and over blazing five-barred gates.

By jingo ! " said Jerry, reading this last
announcement through ; " the guv'nor means to
make a dash this time. This ought to fetch 'em,
royalty and all, if anything would. It's a strong
enough bill for anything."

Jerry, of course, being an old hand, was allowing
in his calculations for the deluding charms of
adjectives and notes of exclamation, which were,
as usual, liberally displayed in the aforesaid advertisement.


Where does Bonfire come from ? " he went on,
turning to Lisette for information. " One of my
friend Day star's aliases ? But I don't think even
the guv'nor, much less his daughter, would make
him take to this trick."

*'No," said Lisette, rather absently stroking

down the folds of her dress. " He was belonging
to Monsieur Detrop, where I and my father were
before I came here. He is a beautiful horse*
Monsieur trained him himself. He was very
clever at it, and could make Bonfire behave so
well that the people would wave their handkerchiefs
and shout. Monsieur was very kind to me.
He used to teach me to ride Bonfire sometimes ;
it was easy. He would say, ' Don't have ze fear,
and he will be good horse ; but if he feel you 
what you call  shrink, he will shrink too, and
zen it will be what they say, " All up." ' " (This
with another of those pretty gestures which made
her chatting so charming.)

So Jerry thought, and half expressed as much
in his look of honest admiration.

*' Then you and this famous Bonfire are old
friends?" he said. "Mr Detrop was good to
teach you his tricks."

Ah, there was not much to do, if you did not
shrink and held him like Monsieur showed me
how. He said to my father that one day he
would let me have him, but, 1 do not know how it
was, Madame did not like that I should learn.
She was too fearful to do so herself; but, as I say
to her, I am young, I do not mind, and she was
so angry."

Jerry could not help laughing at the very innocent
wonderment with which this statement was
made, but promptly agreed that he saw no reason
why her husband's kindness to his old friend's
child should have roused Madame's wrath.

She did not mean to be unkind," went on
Lisette, " but when my father died, and I went to
ask Monsieur to give me a turn, he said ' Yes,' but
Madame said ' No and so 1 went on trying to get
something to do, until I came here and found you.
Since then I have not had to worry."

At first Jerry felt very much inclined to rebel
that that "personal pronoun" was not his own
property, but after a moment gave up the idea
and took to wondering how it was, even while
she had been friendless and worried in the big"
world, Lisette had been able to retain her childlike
faith in her fellow-creatures.

*' And now," went on Lisette, in her queer way
"Monsieur is dead (why is it, I wonder, people
die? I wish they wouldn't), and Madame has. sold
the good Bonfire to Mr Petman."

And Miss Petman is to ride him. Well, she's
plucky enough for anything. I don't think she
will shrink."

Lisette did not reply. Her face was not visible
to Jerry as she was looking round her, and perhaps
did not hear his remark. When she again
turned her head Jerry glanced at her face. He
was surprised to see on it a look which he could
not quite understand. Following the direction of
her eyes, he found them gazing after a tall figure
which was walking rather quickly on the reverse
side of the way, and some few paces in front of
them.

We will not stop to ascertain why there should
have been so much disappointment and vexation

VOL. II. F

in Lisette's looks from what was evidently a trifle,
which would cause her lover as much annoyance
as herself, viz., having missed seeing her among
the crowd which was pouring in at the Garden
gates.

Silly child, how absurd to be cast down at what
was so easily remedied.

Why, even Jerry, who had sought in vain for a
way to make an opportunity to ask a question on
which his life's happiness depended, was equal to
an occasion like this.

Without betraying consciousness that he had
noticed anything amiss, he effected a manoeuvre
which would have done credit to a far more skilled
diplomatist. Artfully declaring his watch to be
fully half-an-hour faster than the hands indicated,
he advised his companion to hasten her steps, he
doing likewise.

Thus, at a pretty smart pace for an invalid, heled
the way until the tall figure on the opposite
side of the road had been distanced by several
yards, a method of proceeding which did not
escape that gentleman's notice ; and while it
might have set Lisette's fears at rest  if she had
any  lest Jerry had noticed her annoyance at the
contretemps it also recalled it a second time.

This, however, was once more dispelled when,
pleading something about his foot paining him,
Jerry indicated a short cut to the circus ground,
to reach which it was necessary to cross the road.

Having done this he either became confused in
his geography of the Gardens or troubled all of a

sudden with a remarkably short memory, both for
the pain in his foot and his suggestion, for he
made no further allusion to any short cut, with the
result that in a few moments, on casting a furtive
glance behind him to see how his plans were succeeding,
he was able to discover with the greatest
naivete the presence of the ring-master, who also
looked a little surprised at this meeting with his
lady-love, "totally unexpected as it was, of course,"
"thought the skilful diplomatist.

So engrossed was the latter in congratulating
himself on the success of his stratagem that he
forgot to notice the greeting between the lovers,
though he did think during the remainder of the
walk that perhaps they would have felt more at
their ease had he been able to have relieved them
of his presence.

THE CLOUD.

Lisette seemed to Jerry a trifle conscious and
nervous at the meeting, and the ring-master too
was a little less unconcerned than usual. Jerry
was not sorry when at length the circus tents
were reached, whither already not a small crowd
was flocking.

Jerry suddenly announced his intention of seeking
Mr Petman prior to the performance, and as
that gentleman was sure at that time to be found
at the pay boxes, it was necessary for him to make
his way thither, and enter at the shilling entrance-gate,
instead of going on to the stables.

Truth to tell, it had suddenly occurred to him
that in the five minutes' walk from the reserved-seat
entrance to the stables there was yet time for
one of those little chats in which lovers so easily
explain away any little misunderstanding which
has occurred. Accordingly he made the excuse
that he wished to report himself to the manager,
and leaving the lovers to continue their way alone,
sought that gentleman and found him, as he had
conjectured, keeping guard over the pay boxes.

Grand preparations, rivalling even those of the
opening day, had been made for the expected
"honoured guests, who, however, had not yet put in
an appearance, though they had signified their
intention of visiting the Gardens some time during
the day.

This fact becoming known, a general rush was
made for seats at the hippodrome, which was
already well filled ; but still the royal personages
were not even within sight of the Gardens' gate.
Mr Petman had been privately informed that
their Highnesses were at the moment indulging
in a quiet after-luncheon doze, warrantable after
their exertions of the morning, namely, their able
-assistance in opening the railway line. Thus it
was not expected they would reach the Gardens
until the hippodrome was over.

Like a wise man, however, he locked this information
in his own breast and did not abate one
jot his preparations for their coming, which had
had such a magical effect in filling his seats  and
his coffers at the same time ; but meanwhile, as
usual, he vented his spleen on any one and everyone
who came within his reach.

On our hero making his way through the crowds
which pressed so eagerly round the entrance, he
was greeted far less affably than on the day before.
It seemed that in spite of the rapidity with which
the treasury was filling, the worthy manager
somewhat regretted the very liberal offer which he
had made for the clown's service.

He made a good many lame excuses relative to

its being very unwise to disobey the doctor's orders
to any great extent, the upshot of which was that
he did not wish to afford the extra payment which
he had promised for two performances.

"It doesn't seem that the grandees are likely
to show up, but don't go babbling it, or the
people '11 wait till to-night ; and if they don't
know, perhaps they'll come to both shows. So as
there's no reason for having such a long programme,
I think you had better be 'cutout' tiU
to-night."

Not in the least hurt that his services could be
so easily dispensed with, nay, rather thanking Mr
Petman for his kindly consideration, Jerry consented
to be "cut out," determining to shine with
double brilliancy when he did at last appear, for
after all the tent performances gave him far more
chance than those in the hippodrome, where his
antics were hardly seen by those in the outer-circle
seats, his voice every now and then carried
away by the breeze, to say nothing of its being
hardly calculated to make one witty when that
same breeze was a stiff nor-easter, which, if not
cold for the spectators, who in most cases were
well sheltered and of course well clad, was sufficient
to make itself felt by any one in a lighter
costume.

So quietly acquiescing in the manager's arrangement,
Jerry determined to witness the show as a
spectator only, imagining he might get some fun
out of the criticisms which he might hear passed
upon his fellows.

For this reason he made his way, not into the
more select reserved seats, from which a "how
clever," " beautiful creature," " very funny," might
be all the expressions good breeding would allow,
but into the free seats, where freer vent would be
given to the feelings.

Here quite by chance he took his stand just
inside the race-course railings, for it was useless
to expect to find a vacant seat, and just behind
him, seated in a row, were a party of girls, who
were evidently bent on enjoying themselves to
the utmost.

By some skilful manoeuvre they had succeeded
in gaining an excellent position, which they now
occupied with great complacency, seated along ina
row regaling themselves with those squares of
cake which the refreshment stalls provided for
the sum of one penny. From their remarks it
appeared that they were habitudes of the show,
and Jerry was highly amused at the business-like
way in which they discussed the performance.

Any appearance of the royal personages ? "
asked one.

No," was the reply. " I wonder they don't
dress up some of the grooms and let them occupy
the seats of honour, just for the look of the thing."

At that moment the performance began. There
was nothing in it which excited particular notice,
but the girls were not slow to observe that Epsom
by the way he lashed and urged on Daredevil,
swearing at him hotly under his breath  was
evidently in no good temper, and readily accounted

for the fact by some anecdote which was recalled
with much merriment; to note a kindly act from
one of the elder members of the Jelli family to
a smaller brother, who was more than usually
nervous ; at the same time watching with a vigilant
eye the famous weight-thrower, resolutely refusing
to believe that his weights were solid ; and paying
strict attention to little details in a way which
showed Jerry that every one at least in the
audience is not so ignorant of the life behind the
scenes as some people imagine.

The young ring-master's appearance was
liberally discussed by them in a laughing, schoolgirl
fashion, the verdict being that he looked
decidedly handsome in his hippodrome dress of
scarlet and white already described. To this all
agreed but one, who maintained that good-looking
as he certainly was, there was something about
his face, in spite of the regular features, curling
hair, and fine grey eyes, which did not impress
her favourably.

*' If he wore a moustache he would be all right,
perhaps, for then he would hide that nasty little
droop of his mouth at the corner."

And what has that to do with it? " asked another
of the girls impatiently.

"1 believe he's either indolent and cowardly,
or"

A burst of laughter interrupted this sage
remark, and the speaker was unmercifully teased
for her attempt at reading character, until it was
discovered that in the excitement of the discussion

the youngest of the merry party had
managed to let her cake fall from her hand into
the much-trimmed crown of a lady's bonnet
seated just below them.

This incident led to more merriment of a catching
if not boisterous kind, and the means suggested
by each of the girls in turn to dislodge the lost
morsel from its position caused Jerry to give up
the keen glance which since their former remarks
he had bestowed upon the object of their criticism
and, laughing at himself for having paid any heed
to the assumed knowledge of a school-girl, lend
an ear once more to their chatter, which, although
they spoke in subdued tones and kept their mirth
within bounds as much as possible, he was just
able to catch.

It was truly comical to hear the expedients
proposed for the rescue of the cake  wishes fora
toasting-fork, a fishing-rod, a pair of tongs, a
pug dog, being among the many implements suggested
for its restoration ; and the silly but harmless
fun reached its height when, by a sudden movement
of the unconscious old lady in front, the
morsel was precipitated from her bonnet into the
lap of a lean, hungry-looking bo' in front of her.
Even Jerry could not help laughing to see this
youth pick up the dainty with reverent fingers,
evidently thinking it had dropped from the skies
for his refreshment, and spreading a greasy paper
over his knees to catch the crumbs, eat it in
small mouthfuls, expressive of great enjoyment.

Having watched this process with much interest,

and regretted among themselves that
they had no more of the cake left to offer him 
which perhaps after all was as well, as too many
luxuries might have had the effect of making
him ill, as one of them remarked with convincing
gravity  the girls once more turned their attention
to the performance.

The riders in the ladies' flat race were just
taking their places, when the presence of a
stranger in the place of the little Frenchwoman
was at once noted.

Blue, pink, green, red, and orange and black \
Who is the girl in the striped jacket? she puts
all the others in the shade." ''A very pretty
jacket : she knows what suits her." " Why, it's
the girl who rides the roan, the one who wears
the velvet habit  Miss Petman, of course."

This fact being unanimously settled, the girls
began laughingly to decide in which of the riders
they placed the most faith. The odds, as Jerry
noticed, were in favour of the striped jacket, more
especially as Dastard prowess seemed well
known, two of the girls only being resolute in
their allegiance to " red," calling to remembrance
more than one bet that they had had with a
certain cousin Jack, the stakes being merely a
pound of chocolate creams or some other sweet
dainty.

Jerry, as he listened to this declaration in
Lisette's favour, smiled to himself to see how
even upon outsiders the little fancy-rider made a
pleasant impression, and heartily delighted within

himself with the frank expressions of approval
which were bestowed upon her appearance, which
it was agreed was quite on a par with that of
the manager's daughter, although that lady had
the advantage of an entirely new and striking
costume, while Lisette's scarlet jacket and cap
were by no means as fresh as they had been that
day when in them she had *' captivated so many
hearts and one above all."

There she is  Miss Hartzmann, I mean  that
pretty girl in red with the brown curly hair," said
one of the observing girls. " I think she is sweet.
Miss Petman is handsome, but in quite another
style, as Madame Pinckney would say  I stick to
red."

Just then the signal was given, and in a few
minutes the race won.

At first all the riders, as usual, were pretty
even, then as the second round of the course was
made,, two shot ahead, the scarlet, and the crimson
and blue, the former a little in front.

For a little way red did not seem to be aware
who it was so close behind her, but a quick glance
round soon made her aware of the roan's near
presence.

Evidently she who had been victorious so many
times before had no wish to forego her honours
even to the manager's daughter. A flush of excitement
spread suddenly over her face, a bright
look came into her eyes, and one could tell by the
way she tightened her grasp of the reins that she
meant to fight valiantly.

On went the two horses  neck to neck  amidst
the shouts of the spectators, while Jerry heard
one of the girls remark in a tone of apprehension
that " red " was doing just what cousin Jack had
before called her wise for not doing, namely,
letting her horse *' go " at first, instead of saving
him till the last round. At least such was cousin
Jack's opinion in the matter.

And it seemed as if the theory was a true one,
for already at the beginning of the second round
Daystar had the advantage.

"Red! Blue! Blue! Red!" went the shouts
from the big crowd gathered in the enclosure,
with as much enthusiasm as when, on the first
day, they had witnessed the mimic struggle, even
Jerry sharing in the general excitement.

The contest was soon decided. Just when it
seemed certain that Blue would be the victor,
Red gained a few steps, in response to which Daystar
received a reminder of what was expected
of him by a sharp cut with the whip.

The blow was ill-advised. The animal was not
used to this style of performance, and after so far
putting his feelings into his pocket and doing his
duty quietly, he objected to be chastised without
a cause.

He was not slow to show his feelings by shying
violently, and in a manner which nearly resulted
in unseating his rider, and taking advantage of
the opportunity, the red jacket slipped b} and
reached the winning-post amidst the usual cheers
of victory.

Had Daystar's conduct had no cause, no doubt
the wearer of the crimson and blue jacket might
have received some commiseration, instead of
which more than one coarse laugh of some one
who had betted against her, was raised, and only
drowned by the applause which was bestowed
upon her lucky rival as she made the circle of the
ring.

Meanwhile, under pretence of assisting her to
alight, the ring-master had made his way to Miss
Petman's side : they stood talking together, then
each glanced a little anxiously round, and then
turned together hastily in the direction of the
ante-room.

The winner of the race noticed this, and the
look of excitement died slowly out of her face
while she followed them with her eyes.

I was afraid she was going to beat you," said
Smith, who, as usual, was at hand with his congratulations
and dog-like attentions. *'Daystar
was even with her for once."

Yes ; it was not Miss Petman's fault," said
Lisette a little absently ; " I wish I had let her
win."

Let her win ! " repeated the groom, but made
no further comment, no doubt because it was
quite beyond his comprehension that any one
should be willing to forego so brilliant a victory,
and stroking down the Turk's neck with a rough
but gentle hand, he led the way from the course.
Jerry followed in their wake.
Reaching the ante-room he found Lisette had

vanished, while Miss Petman stood still talking
eagerly to Carl Hermann in a low tone, but with
an excitement which, if, as was most likely, she
was discussing with him the lately-contested race,
was hardly necessary, and certainly boded no good
to the real winner, who, however, no doubt had a
staunch defender in her lover.

Whatever was the subject, it is certain both the
speakers were somewhat eager and excited, and
remained so until suddenly Mr Petman's voice,
raised high in loud reproof of one of the grooms,
heralded that gentleman's approach.

No doubt fearing that he might say something
relative to her failure, the manager's daughter,
although not usually by her manner given to express
much awe of her hot-tempered parent,
hastened out of the tent.

Before doing so she stopped, summoned the
ring-master once more to her side, and whispered
something to him.

He did not appear to answer directly, but played
thoughtfully with the thong of his whip, whereupon
she frowned and added something with evident
anger, which made him colour also, and with
some laughing comments they parted.

A few moments later Lisette entered, and from
where he stood chatting to Smith, Jerry saw her
blush vividly as Carl Hermann greeted her, and he
watched with interest the two as they stood chatting,
the ring-master with a gaiety which sat well
upon him because it was unusual, no doubt part
of his character as a happy lover, Lisette as shy as

ever, but with a more than usually bright light
beaming in her eyes.

So they stood until, the interval over, the
former was obliged to return to his duties.

Mr Pitman had meanwhile been creating as
much disturbance as it is possible for one man
over a lot of nervous supernumeraries, to do.

By-and-by, when the men were in the ring
again, Jerry was alone in the ante-room with
Lisette. He wondered whether he might venture
to approach the little fancy-rider, afraid lest he
should disturb pleasant thoughts such as the
bright look on her face seemed to tell of.

Before, however, he could make up his mind,
Mr Petman had taken upon himself that office.

Going up to where Lisette stood he remarked,
with an ugly leer such as he was wont to precede
his clumsy attempts at affability with, "So you
managed to make the Turk cut out Daystar, did
you ? Rqsc didn't like that, I bet ; but it does her
good to be taken down a peg or two sometimes.
I'd let her see that you've got as much
pluck as her always if I were you. I thought
she'd have beaten, but I suppose I was taken ina
bit."

After this not very explicit speech he nodded
with intended knowingness and passed on, and
when Jerry turned Lisette had also left the tent.
He went out once more into the race-course.

Nothing of consequence occurred to interest
him particularly until the chariot race. Then it
happened that as the clumsy vehicles were got

into line Lisette found some difficulty in reducing-her
fiery steeds to order.

The ring-master stood ready to give the start,
but paused a moment, and calling to her to drive
a little way along the course, evidently tried to
discover what was the cause of the horses' unusual
behaviour.

Stop a little," he called in German ; " there is
something not right." With a lover's anxiety he
himself paid some attention to the harness, and ina
few moments Lisette was able to go back to her
place.

As she gathered up the reins she was no doubt
uttering her thanks, and more than once turned her
head to call over her shoulder some remark to her
countryman in her own language, which while it
puzzled Jerry made him think how softly and
sweetly it fell from the pretty red lips.

The start was given and away went the heavy
chariots, thundering along in a most .ungainly
fashion, while the breeze carried out the Roman
robes which the drivers wore, like sails behind
them.

All went well until the commencement of the
second round, when failing to effect a manoeuvre
by which it was intended to reach the inside edge
of the course the wheels of two of the vehicles
became locked. For a moment, in spite of the
danger which they ran by so doing, neither of the
ladies seemed inclined to give way, until it seemed
that so interlocked had they become that it was
difficult to sav which it would be the safest to do

stop or go on, trusting to the end of the race
for the grooms to bring the tearing horses to a
standstill simultaneously ; but one thing was certain,
neither could win while thus clogged, and as
till now the race had lain between them, great
excitement prevailed as to who would give way.

It was soon decided. One of the girls glanced
round as though about to make some remark to
her rival, seemed to change her mind and look
quickly from side to side of the course and then
down at the wheels. The next moment, by a
skilful movement which many a better-trained
coachman might have applauded, she urged her
horses forward, and by a touch of the whip avoided
the accident which seemed imminent by turning
the obedient animals across the course, resigning
thus her chance of winning, but earning a burst of
applause from the spectators which was as well
merited for the unselfishness of the act as for its
prompt skill.

Bowing and laughing gaily Lisette  for she it
was  drove quickly back to the starting-point,
where Carl Hermann assisted her to alight, again
addressing her in German.

So they stood until the race was won, Miss
Petman coming in first, but hardly receiving as
much applause as the little fancy-rider had done,
which seemed to cause her some annoyance, and,
again, no doubt with the idea of spoiling the
lovers' tete-astute, she beckoned the ring-master to
her, and again seemed to address him rather
angrily.

VOL. n. G

In a few moments, however, he managed to
make his escape, while the manager's daughter
hastened off to her dressing-room to prepare for
what was to be the greatest feature in the show 
her introduction of the fire-horse.

Much excitement was evinced when she made
her appearance in the ring, clad in a handsome
habit of dark green velvet, which had been dipped
in some solution, as advised by the late Mr Detroit
prevent any danger of catching fire, and on
her head, suiting her dark handsome face to
perfection, a large hat of the same colour and
material, ornamented by sweeping plumes of
white feathers.

The horse was for a trick horse an unusually
fine one, and altogether the new feature promised
to fulfil the hopes entertained of it.

The first portion of the performance was greeted
with well-deserved applause, and with a smile of
satisfaction Miss Petman bowed her acknowledgment.
Ashen, however, it came to the fiery portion
of the same, and to prove that he deserved
his name. Bonfire had to go through his tricks
surrounded by flaming bowls of fire both on the
ground and above his head, the well-trained
animal began to show signs of rebellion, and it
was only after a good deal of temper exhibited
\ij both he and his mistress that he could be
induced to behave himself ; even then, instead of
galloping, waltzing, and marching between the
flaming bowls, he sidled away from them in anything
but a graceful manner.

In this state of things it was natural that some
anxiety was evinced as to how the crowning feat
of all was to be accomplished.

By Jove ! won't the guv'nor swear if she
makes a hash of it," said Will Breakneck, who, in
his suit of dark blue, looked singularly limp and
ordinary after his usual smart appearance in the
ring. "If she hashes it we'd best look out, and

me if I don't think she will. She's got more

than her match in this beast, I bet. Why  "

He paused and looked significantly at his
brother, who glanced quickly in the direction of
the ring-master, as he stood not many feet
distant, watching with Lisette the performance
then going on. An angry look came into the
young German's face. He turned abruptly away
from his companion, and, as two of the grooms
went into the ring carrying two gates, the top
bar of which was roughly bound with pieces of
matting and smeared with a light covering of
pitch, called somewhat sharply to the acrobat to
some and help support one of the gates.

By jingo ! Madame Fourteenstone is quite
right," said that gentleman. " There'll be such a
jolly row soon. What do you think? "

Wh}, that you needn't be afraid to hold the
hurdles. You won't burn your fingers half so
much as some one else will."

But though the speaker of course alluded to
the young ring-master, who had already taken
from one of the grooms the lighted torch which
he had brought, he glanced curiously at Lisette.

She, however, was too much occupied in watching-what
went on in the ring, no doubt apprehensive
of the conduct of her late master's pupil, to notice
the look.

The gates were fastened by ropes some few
inches long to the ring side, a precaution necessary
to prevent them harming the velvet cushion, and
were held by a similar appendage by some one
within the ring, in this instance Carl Hermann
who had no doubt been desired to fill this rather
important office by Mr Petman, and Will Breakneck.


At first Bonfire was made to get up his speed
by leaping the gates as they were ; then, at a
signal from his rider, the torch was applied, and
in an instant the top bar was ablaze.

Hi ! hi ! " called Miss Petman, seating herself
firmly, and grasping the reins with a determined
hand, as she set the horse at the flaming


Bonfire, good horse that he was, made a good
start, but no sooner did he come within a few
paces of the required leap than he swerved and
capered round into the middle of the ring.

No doubt thinking it best to encourage this
whim, at first Miss Petman rode him back a little,
then again made a start, but again only to have
him swerve.

Once, twice, thrice this happened, and by the
fourth time the audience, whose patience had
been somewhat tried by the non-appearance of
the royal personages, began to giggle and offer

T-olnntary advice, which even the encouraging
applause could not drown.

It was plain that both horse and rider were
also out of temper, and a severe struggle for
mastery went on, while the fire on the gates
burnt quickly lower and lower.

No doubt determined at any cost to take him
over the hurdles, alight or not, Miss Petman put
the now completely roused animal once more at
the leap, when he hesitated bringing her whip
down with some force over his ears. Quick to
resent such treatment, the brute shied, reared
violently, and entirely gave way to every sign
of displeasure.

Though as a rule plucky enough, Miss Petman,
under the continued rearing and plunging, seemed
to lose all nerve and cling to the saddle and reins
ill a manner which did not tend to decrease
Bonfire's ill-temper.

Will Breakneck and Carl Hermann had by this
time got out of the ring, which was by no means
the safest place while those strong iron hoofs were
hung so indiscriminately into the air.

Seeing that Miss Petman Alas, however, beginning
to lose control over herself as well asher
steed, and that it was useless any longer to
prolong the performance, Carl Hermann called
hastily to some of the grooms to go and secure
the horse and lead him from the ring.

It's all very well to call us to go. I ain't
going to risk having my shins broken for him
nor nobody. Why don't he go himself? It's his

place, I guess. What do you say, Smith ? But,
there, he's too much of a coward; he ain't got
no more pluck than a baby."

Smith did not answer ; but there was a queer
look on his face, which closely resembled that
which had illuminated it when he had paid Jerry
a visit the day before. It was impossible to say
what the look might mean, but he did not stir to
go to Miss Petman's aid.

A repetition of the command, however, uttered
with far greater force than the young German
usually exerted himself to use, but which was
now necessary, as the laughter and jeers, especially
from the free seats, were gradually getting
louder, and Bonfire still refused to be reduced to
order, caused some of the rest to obey, very unwillingly,
it must be confessed. But even then
the horse refused to do anything but retire into
the ante-room, still rearing and plunging, while
the band struck up " God save the Queen," and,
commenting in a not very complimentary manner
on the last feature of the performance, the vast
audience streamed out of the place.

But even within the ante-room Bonfire proved
himself so resolute in his bad behaviour, that, in
spite of all the grooms could do, he resolutely
refused to stand still Awhile his rider dismounted.

Mr Petman was frantic  bullied, swore, and
threatened at all the grooms in turn, who, however,
all retreated before the unmanageable
brute's capers.

How long matters would have gone on like

this it is impossible to say, but after nearly everyone
in turn had made an effort to bring it to an
end, but unsuccessfully  only the ring-master and
Mr Petman contenting themselves with urging
the others on  suddenly Lisette, who had been
watching w4iat went on with a rather fearful look
on her face, stepped forward and whispered something
to Smith. He hesitated a moment, glanced
from the speaker to the horse's rider, and back
again, then suddenly stepped forward and laid a
hand on Bonfire's bridle, while at the same time
Lisette put her hand over his eyes, and saying-something
in French in a low, soothing tone,
fearlessly patted his arched neck, at the risk of
a kick from one of the muscular legs.

The effect, if not instantaneous, was in a few
minutes to reduce the animal to sufficient order
to allow his rider to dismount, which she did,
looking much relieved and not a little disarranged
by the late struggle. Then Mr Petman stormed
with fresh ardour, and the girl, not a little put
out at the failure of her performance, also gave
her tongue liberty, and some very sharp sayings
passed between father and daughter.

At length Mr Petman seemed to get the worst
of it, and he turned away with an oath.

You're a fool. Rose  disgraced the show.

Every one Alas laughing at you. Supposing we'd
have had the visitors we expected, a nice mess
you'd have made. As like as not if it gets to

their ears they won't come, and take it, it'll

mean twenty per cent, off the takings. After al

the practice you've had  to make such a fool of
yourself; why, a baby could do better ! "

Then you'd better let one try. I'm if I'll

mount the horse again."

Miss Petman turned as she spoke to leave the
tent. Her eye fell upon Lisette, who was still
talking and soothing Bonfire's aggrieved feelings.

Why don't you let Miss Hartzmann ride him ?
She seems to know more about the brute than I
do. I tell you I won't ride him to-night, so you'd
better let her."

it and you to, so I will," said the manager,
with unnecessary emphasis. Turning to
Lisette, he said with equal violence, "Look here ;
I've no doubt you could make as big a fool of
yourself as Rose, if you liked. Give us the performance
to-night as it ought to be. You've got
plenty of pluck, I know, and I'll make it worth
your while. Will you do it % "

Lisette hesitated, looking half anxiously round
for some one to advise her. She was evidently
loath to show her superiority over Miss Petman
by accepting the offer  which, as we know, she
was quite capable of doing  but at the same time
she feared to risk the manager's more potent displeasure
by refusing. In her dilemma she glanced
first at Bonfire's late rider  who returned the look
with cool defiance  and then at Carl Hermann,
Who, however, was talking to one of the grooms,
and apparently did not know of the claim upon
his attention.

*' Well," said Mr Petman impatiently, " do you



feel inclined to let her see that you're as good as
she is % " This with an ugly leer.

I should be sorry," began Lisette, finding she
must speak, " very sorry to take Miss Petman's
place, and I will willingly show her what I know
about Bonfire, if she will let me."

Thank you, Miss Hartzmann," replied that
lady coldly ; " I would rather not lay myself under
any obligation to you by profiting by your lessons.
Madame Detrop's advice tailed. I do not think
you are likely to succeed. But you are perfectly
at liberty to prove your superiority over me if
you wish to do so."

There was an ugly sneer on her handsome face
as the manager's daughter repeated her father's
words, which brought a sudden flush to her listener's
face.

For a moment Lisette's eyes sought the ground,
then she said very quietly, as though eager to put
an end to what might develop into a quarrel,
Thank you for saying you will not mind my
trying ; but Bonfire and I are old friends. Monsieur
Detrop taught me to ride him when I was
at his circus."

This admission, made without the slightest
show of ill-temper or sarcasm, completely settled
the matter.

Miss Petman swept out of the tent with a gesture
of annoyance, saying something to Carl
Hermann as she passed him ; and Mr Petman
hastened to make a few necessary arrangements
for the next performance. " You had better try

the beast now," he said to Lisette, as she still
lingered patting Bonfire, who submitted quietly
to her caresses, as though recognising an old
friend, and behaved in a most exemplary manner
when she put him through a few tricks in the
now deserted enclosure.

This done, she hastened to the dressing-room
to change her habit, and afterwards paid Madame
Petite a visit to consult her as to the costume she
should wear for her new performance in the evening.
The good-natured old Frenchwoman, though
far from well with a bad attack of rheumatics,
exerted herself to enter thoroughly into the plan,
and once more ransacked her wardrobe for what
was required. By a little manoeuvring a dress
was devised, and in high glee Lisette despatched
it to the Gardens by her faithful servant. Smith,
and went home to her dinner. On her way she
looked in at Jerry's lodgings, just after the episode
of the Dutch clock already described.

In spite, however, of his being a trifle upset by
what had lately occurred, the clown was delighted
at the opportunity which chance had given his
little friend of what he called " a rise," though it
was at some one else's expense.

As he told Lisette, Miss Petman would lose
nothing by it ; and if her father was put out for
the time being, she knew well enough how to
bring him round, for it was a well-known fact
that the manager's daughter was heir to a neat
little sum  should an old aunt die  as she certainly
would before very long, being already

seventy-five years of age. The rest of the day
went by quickly enough, and once again Jerry
started out for the Gardens, this time without any
dismal forebodings, but looking forward not only
to his own pleasure on his re-appearance, but to
Lisette's success in her new performance on
Bonfire.

And once again, as he walked with a brisk step
through the streets, he saw the lovers on in front
of him; and while they, of course, went the longest
way round, he took a short cut on purpose to
avoid overtaking them.

As he walked Jerry's thoughts were the happiest
he had known for some weeks ; he never gave
his injured foot a thought, but strolled along as
usual with his hands in his pockets, whistling
gaily through sheer lightheartedness.

Where Avere all his idle fancies now? Only fit
for some pampered mind, and due, no doubt, to
his long imprisonment  encouraged, of course, by
Smith's mysterious hints.

On the morrow he would see the groom, and
rate him soundly for his absurdity.

The Gardens Avere crowded ; and as the royal
personages, having felt themselves sufficiently
refreshed by their royal snooze to pay the expected
visit, had announced their intention of
witnessing the performance in the circus, everything
promised well for a moat agreeable evening
for all concerned.

Jerry stood for a few moments chatting with
Mr Petman, watching the crowds pushing their

way in at the various entrances to the monster
tent, and feeling his spirits rise ; while he looked
forward with an eagerness he had rarely felt
before to hearing peal after peal of laughter
follow his antics in the ring.

But I don't think even this fact was quite the
reason of his very contented frame of mind ; it
was his great love and unselfishness which caused
him to forget his own troubles because some one
whom he loved was happy, for while he had stood
there watching the audience throng in, Lisette
and the young ring-master had passed  he smiling
down at her from his superior height, and she
looking up at him with eyes and ears and heart
for no one else.

Mr Petman also saw them, and looked after
them with a keen look in his face. No doubt he
was thinking whether he had been wise to trust
to this little fancy-rider, and on such an important
occasion, the valuable trick horse which he had
bought specially for his daughter.

She's a fool," he muttered to himself ; " but if
she tries any of her tricks, I'll let her see Avhat
I'm made of."

The next moment he was all smiles and bows,
as he led the way for some well-dressed ladies to
the reserved stalls, which had been cushioned and
covered for this time only  a place of honour
again reserved for the royal personages, who had
not yet arrived  and this office accomplished, flew
out into a series of doubly-distilled oaths because,
the free seats being full, two women and their

husbands, with three children apiece, had asked if
"all children must be paid for in the reserved
seats % "

"It's the only holiday as Jem and Jack can
get," said one of the women, nearly smothering
her baby in her efforts to make it cease crying,
of which vent for its feelings it was hard to deny
it, after it had been carried about in the hot sun
without an interval of repose for fully three hours,
while its mother explored the delights of the
Gardens, a visit to which was to be the event
in a year of drudgery. " It's the only holiday
Jem and Jack gets, nor, for the like of that, me
and Jane either, and we can't afford to pay for
leaving the babies at home."

"And I can't afford to have my seats taken
up by a lot of brawling little brats as ain't paid
for."

We'd take up as little room as possible, sir,"
answered the other woman. "Me and Jem and
Jack 'd take one of 'm on our knees apiece, and
the other two could easy sit on one chair, they
ain't very fat  times ain't good enough for that 
or they might stand."

There did not seem much prospect of either
of the parents enjoying the show with a big if
not fat child on his or her knee, especially after
the long tramp in the hot sun, while the allusion
to hard times having to do with the want of
substance in the remaining portion of the family,
was enough to have touched any heart save, of
course, the manager's.

It was not to be expected he would be touched,
he never having known what hard times were.

He rearranged his tie carelessly for the better
display of a gorgeous emerald pin, gave a sly
glance from his one eye at the rapidly-filling till
over which he mounted guard, and said with great
dignity :

*' Let 'em stand ! Not if I know it. Either you
pays or you don't. So you'd best make up your
minds which it's to be. and not rob me by standing
in the way of folks as can do the thing in
style."

Oh sir," put in the younger of the women
pleadingly, "we wouldn't mind if it was right
at the back we had to sit. We meant to have
got in to the free seats, but the children got so
frightened when the push came we had to stand
back ; and I'm sure, sir, every one of the seats
won't fill, and you'll never be none the worse for
letting us by."

Any allusion to empty seats was like fire to
gunpowder to Mr Petman.

What the devil is it to do with you whether
the seats fill or not? Devil take yer, if I have
any more of yer impudence, I'll see you turned
out of the Gardens, ay, you and your brats too,
d me if I don't ! " he cried furiously.

At this, one of the men showed serious signs
of resenting the insults offered to his wife. He
gave the manager a few home truths in a style
as forcible as his own, squared his shoulders in
no idle pretence of having it out there and then,

and it might have gone somewhat hardly with
that worthy had not the women hung upon their
defender with many entreaties and sobs, and bade
him desist. This at first he did not seem inclined
to do ; his hot workman's blood was up, and though
he would have secretly felt no sympathy with Mr
Petman had he paid in this instance for many like
pieces of cruel and unnecessary harshness, Jerry-knowing
well who in the end would get the worst
of the bargain, thought it best to set matters to
rights.

He quickly slipped round to the side of the
would-be combatant, and told him not to be a
fool, to leave the matter to him (Jerry) and it
would be all right ; also to take his family to
the drinking-fountain a little distance from the
entrance, and there wait.

His authoritative manner stamping him as someone
of importance, the man seemed inclined to
rely upon him, and fortunately at that moment
Mr Petra's attention was claimed by one of the
grooms. Thus a nasty row was avoided.

True to his word, as soon as he was able to
get near the pay-box, round which a crowd still
gathered, Jerry purchased eight tickets, which
made a considerable hole in a week's salary, and
raced off himself to the drinking fountain. Here
he found a very forlorn little party, the two
fathers loudly expressing their regret that they
had not gone for Mr Petman after all ; the poor
tired women silently wishing they were once
more at home  the scrub, scrub at the washtub

was better than this perpetual fear lest Jack
or Jem's hot temper would get him into trouble
while the children hung round their mother's
skirts and cried dolefully, or worried incessantly
to know whether they were not going to see the
'losses " after all.

Truth to tell, the whole party had begun to
look upon Jerry's timely interposition in their
behalf as a manoeuvre of Mr Petra's to get
them quietly out of the way, and I am not sure
but what several hard things had been said about
my hero, when he suddenly turned sorrow into
joy once more.

It was wonderful to see what a change came
over the doleful little group when he made his
appearance, tickets in hand.

The men in their outspoken way touched their
hats and apologised sincerely for their late bad
opinion of him, declaring him a brick; the women
curtseyed and wished him every blessing ; while
the children left off crying suddenly, put their
fingers in their mouths, and stared at the " gentleman
" as though he had been some good fairy
dropped from heaven to save them from such a
bitter disappointment as not seeing the wonders
of the circus, to which they had looked forward
for many a long day.

A few preparations were suggested by Jerry,
such as a deep draught of the clear fountain water
all the way round, much tying of neckties and
flattening down of hair and arranging of hats, and
once more the little party made their way, this

time under the young clown's judicious guardianship,
to the enclosure, entering by the reverse
door to that at which Mr Pet man had stationed
himself.

Having seen them safely, but withal good-tempered,
drifting along with the rest of the crowd
into the coveted seats  one apiece  although in
the excitement the children got as close together
as possible, Jerry restored his necktie to its proper
position, put his hands in his pockets, and
whistling softly to himself made his way towards
the dressing tents.

If there is one thing warranted to make a
man feel *' jolly" it is the consciousness of
having done a kindly action at his own expense.


I think this feeling is more likely to be increased
when the action is a secret one, for what
can make one feel in better spirits than the knowledge
that for once one's fellow-men have no
right to their small opinion of one, that that
secret action is all the more likely one day to be
rewarded, because no one has signed a receipt for
it in worldly praise.

But there, 1 have no time for moralising, which
I find very often amounts to telling people what
they know already.

Let us then return to Jerry.

The highest expectations entertained of the
evening, so far as the audience was concerned,
were realised  the house was crowded by the
most brilliant assembly ever seen in it be-vol.

II. H

fore, the royal personages having not only arrived,
but as the manager had hoped, had
attracted such a crowd of spectators that nota
seat in the vast tent was vacant after their
arrival.

i

A COWARDLY BLOW.

The first part of the programme went capitally 
the Jeili family  Madame Fourteenstone  the
performing donkeys (specially engaged for the
occasion)  the somersault rider  the Japanese
children  the performing dogs  Epsom the jockey,
and various others being greeted by thunders of
applause  the whole kept going with a briskness
which made up for any want of originality in the
features introduced.

In the second part of the programme were
placed: Lisette's usual performance on Turk 
Miss Petman's introduction of Daystar  the Signor's
characteristic act, " Apollo " (as Tomtit
remarked once, his apology for Apollo)  Jerry's
tricks, and last, but not least, the fancy-rider's
performance on Bonfire, which was looked forward
to with some eagerness, owing to its having
been such a failure in the afternoon.

Thus it happened that soon after the interval
Jerry made his way to the dressing-room, where

he spent more time and care over his toilette
than he usually thought necessary  humming
gaily to himself as he painted his cheeks in that
peculiar fashion appropriated by those of his calling,
and taking more than one critical glance at
himself in the cracked looking-glass, to be sure
that his new and gorgeous costume was, if not
as becoming, at least as striking as he had
anticipated.

In the pleasant frame of mind he was, it seemed
to be worthy the time and ingenuity he had spent
in planning it, and bestowing with care the few
necessaries for his tricks in his capacious pockets
the other and more imposing requisites were to
be carried into the ring, disposed with as much
show as possible on a small table  planted his
jelly-bag cap on the back of his head, and made
his way to the ante-room.

Here his appearance was warmly greeted, and
he received on all sides hearty if rough congratulations
on his recovery, which he was only too
happy to acknowledge.

Presently Mr Petman entered, and it behoved
the men to make a pretence of being busy. Even
then he found some fault, and vented his wrath ina
manner which showed he had by no means
recovered from his temper of the afternoon ; indeed,
there was an angry flush on his face which,
telling as it did of more than one " pick-me-up,"
boded ill to anyone who should attempt to cross
him.

Jerry meanwhile drew a little away from the

rest, and perching himself on the performing-dogs'
barrel, quietly awaited his turn, while he did so
still whistling softly to himself because he felt he
must have vent for his feelings  which were one
string of pleasant thoughts.

Who could help being jolly with the consciousness
that he was once more able to be of some
use in the world, if it was only to make people
laugh and forget their troubles for the moment 
it is not every one who has that power  the
remembrance of the kindly act by which he had
given pleasure to the holiday-makers, whose
grateful thanks still rang in his ears ; above all,
the knowledge of the happiness of the some one
lie loved best in the world.

God bless her ! " he said to himself involuntarily.
" It's a sin to talk of shadows before her.
Her life is made up of sunshine."

And as if to corroborate this idea, as he turned
his head there through the curtains over the
entrance he saw the object of his thoughts, a
veritable fairy in snowy skirts and shining satin,
leaping over broad banners and through balloons
with an ease and grace which was all her own,
her face bright with excitement as she bowed
from right to left in acknowledgment of the
hearty applause bestowed upon her, but reserving
the brightest look of all for her lover as, tall and
handsome in his dark blue suit, he followed her
with his eyes, for Turk was too well trained to
need much use of the long whip he held in his
band.

Yes, there they were, and Jerry sat and watched
them, quite content that it should be so.

A few minutes later Miss Petman entered the
tent looking handsomer than ever by the gaslight,,
in the dark habit and hat. She glanced round,
and then shut out Jerry's view of the ring by stationing
herself at the opening of the curtains, apparently
to take a good survey of the audience.
After a little she turned away with an impatient
gesture and an ill-suppressed frown on her dark
face, which made it closely resemble her father's-far
plainer one.

But no one noticed her, for just then Lisette
came dancing in with that hop, skip, and a jump
peculiar to circus riders  was recalled, and made
her bow, and only pausing to make some funny
comment on Jerry's appearance as he looked
contentedly down at her from his elevation
snatched up her cloak, and ran off to change
her dress. Miss Petman, still frowning slightly
Day star, and went through her performance.


This over, on returning to the ante-room, it so
happened only she and the ring-master were there
besides Jerry, who was once more an involuntary
witness of high words between these two. He
pretended, however, to take no notice, being intent
on watching the affected grace of the Signor's
Apollo act, and after a little he concluded by the
voices being lowered from an angry mutter into a
still less audible whisper, that if anything had displeased
the rather headstrong manager's daughter,

Carl Hermann had been able to smooth down her
ruffled feathers.

Bending a little forward where he sat, and
drawing the side of the curtain towards him so
that he could more clearly see the Signer, while
at the same time the nearness of the band prevented
him from hearing what was going on
around him, hq was totally unaware that anything
was amiss until suddenly, when the music
paused for a moment to allow a thrill to run
through the audience when Apollo performed a
double somersault on the back of his two chargers,
his (Jerry's) attention was attracted by the sound
of Mr Petman's voice raised once more high in
anger.

This, as my reader knows, was no unusual sound,
and Jerry might have continued his interest in the
Signer's performance, but for the fact that two
voices mingled with that of the manager's  one of
them Miss Petman's haughty tones, and the other
that of Carl Hermann.

it, sir," said the manager, " does that

answer my question? What the deuce business
had you to call my daughter * Rose ? ' Where's
your respect for me, I should like to know, if you
speak to her in that familiar manner ! Didn't I as
good as pick you up out of the street ? and you 
you have the impertinence to try and kiss my
daughter, and call her ' Rose.' Hang you, I've a
good mind to punch your head for you. AVhat
the deuce do you mean by it, eh ? "

During this speech the ring-master had made

more than one attempt to put in a word, but
though he repeated his question each time with
more violence, the manager, who had entered the
tent unheard by Jerry, and as it seemed by the
two other occupants, would not allow it to be answered.


Now, however, he paused, his face ablaze with
passion, and making threatening gestures with his
short arms, while at the sound of the unusual commotion
several of the grooms made their way into
the tent, and listened curiously to what was going
on. At the same time as Smith entered leading
Bonfire, the curtain over the door in the tent
leading to the dressing-rooms was pushed hastily
aside, and a slight figure, whose gay scarlet dress
and gilt helmet with its sweeping chimes were
only half-hidden by a long dark cloak, advanced a
few steps, then paused.

I tell you, sir," began Carl Hermann. " If you
will only let me explain  "

"Isn't that what I'm telling you to do, and
what's more, if you don't explain and apologise
before you leave this tent, I'll kick you out of the

place, me if I won't. Do you suppose I'm

going to have every whipper-snapper, every dirty
foreigner like you call my daughter * Rose,' and
say the sort of things you've been saying % Now
don't deny it ; I've had my eye on you for sometime
past. I know the game you've been playing,
and I ain't ashamed to say I've spied you. Girls
like compliments, I know  more fools they ; but
it was more 'n compliments you was a-saying, and

if she ain't got sense to give you a lesson as to
what you owe to your betters, I have. Betters,
yes, sir, your betters. Don't you go setting yourself
up for as good as my daughter. If you have
got a bit of good looks enough to turn any silly
fool's head, you're as lazy, good-for-nothing a dog
as ever I had to do with ; and my girl, why she'll
beat you nor any one, I bet, for looks, and she
knows it. Don't try and look shy. Rosy; you
know it's the truth. You've been told so scores
of times by gents as ought to know, and what's
more, she's got more money behind her than ever
you'll have in your life if you save every penny

you earn. You know that, you , and you

think you're going to turn her head with your
nonsense. But she ain't such a fool. Why didn't
sou up and tell him so, Rosy, and give him a
smack of his face for his impertinence, like you did
that London fellow as wanted to run away with

you % Now look here, you , you  you just

apologise straight ojBf, or I'll whip you round the
ring this very moment ; do you hear ? I'll do it
right before them 'ere royal ladies and gentlemen ;
they'll enjoy the fun quite as well as you will, I
swear."

And, with a malicious grin, the infuriated
manager went a step or two nearer, and made
as though he would seize the culprit by the
collar.

A white evil look came into the young ring-master's
face.

If you lay a finger on me," he said, in a voice

choked with anger, "you'll regret it. Ask your
daughter for an explanation, not me."

Ask her  you , what do you mean ? "

roared Mr Petman, going another step nearer.
Speak, you , or I'll knock you down."

By this time the ante-room was full of people
the grooms, two of the clowns, the Breaknecks,.
and George Epsom, ready for their turns, and
several others, who all began to look askance at
each other, as to what turn the affair would take.

It was Miss Petman who hastened to say
quickly, " Haven't I told you, papa, that there is
no need for Mr Hermann to apologise. You had
far better leave the matter as it is."

"Leave it as it is! me if I will. I know

what's due to me as master here, if you don't.
What the devil do you mean by flying in your

father's face? d you. If I break his neck I'll

make him pay for his nonsense."

The ring-master drew back a step or two, but
whether because he feared his patience would get
the better of him, or from some other reason, I
cannot say, and while Mr Petman still reiterated
his threats in the same blustering manner, the two
objects of this wrath were seen to take council together,
as though deciding what course to adopt
to bring the scene to an end. At length cutting
short her father's furious onslaught. Miss Petman
looked him calmly in the face, and said with the
greatest coolness, while every one in the tent
listened in open-mouthed surprise : 

*' Excuse my interrupting you, papa, but since

you will have an explanation, and Carl"  with
a slight laughing emphasis on the name which
made more than one of the listeners drop their
lower jaw still lower, and two at least hold their
breath, for what should come next, even they did
not guess what it could be  " and Carl does not
seem inclined to give it, I suppose I must, as it
might be a little awkward afterwards if either of
you in any way injured the other ; at least I
should naturally prefer Carl's good looks, since
you own they are the only thing in his favour, to
remain untouched, and I don't think he would
bring himself to use any violence against you.
Don't interrupt me, please,"  as, spell-bound as he
had been for the moment by the girl's coolness,
Mr Petman showed signs of breaking out again 
I am coming to the point in a moment. You seethe
fact is, whether you like it or not, your opinion
comes too late. Mr Hermann and I have been
married a week and more ! "

Never could an announcement which was likely
to bring about such a fury of wrath, have been
made with more sang f void.

As she spoke Miss Petman laid one hand on
Carl Hermann's arm, and with a smile of amusement
and triumph looked calmly round her.

For a few moments there was a dead silence, no
one in all the curious listeners dared speak, till Mr
Petman slowly found his tongue once more and
burst forth into a perfect storm of passion ten
times greater than before. His face was a dull
purple, his eyes literally starting out of his head,.

leads of perspiration rolling down his forehead,
his fat figure quivering with emotion, his veins
standing out in knots on his fat red hands, his
whole appearance frightfully suggestive of a fit,
until it seemed lucky that he was able to find some
vent in words.

And such words they were ! Coarse as he had
been in his first outburst, it was nothing to his rage
now, at the way he had been tricked. His fierce
threatening gestures were terrible to witness, while
his language was only fit for the lowest pothouse.

Oaths, curses, blasphemy, every expletive that
coarse nature calls to its aid fell from his lips,
making themselves heard almost above the clash
of the music which accompanied the Signer's performance
in the ring, a glimpse of him in his gay
costume astride on his well-trained steed being
every now and then visible through the curtains.

At length Miss Petman, who had been calmly
whispering to her companion meanwhile, seemed
to grow tired of his continued wrath.

Really, papa," she said, in her careless way,
while with a smile she held out her hand for the
ring-master to undo the fastening of her gauntlet
glove. " Really, papa, this is sheer waste of your
precious time, which I am sure, with so much on
your hands to do, you cannot afford to lose. You
asked for an explanation and I gave it you. It is
true I wished the matter to be kept quiet a little
longer, but since you chose to listen, you paid for
it by learning what seems to have displeased you.
It is a pity you have so poor opinion of Carl, but

no doubt you will alter it in time. As it is, I fear
all the talking and swearing in the world will not
alter the fact that I am his wife, so I suppose he i&
my husband. We had the ceremony in all proper

form at Church, and though I didn't care to

have a fuss of bridesmaids and all that nonsense
it was perfectly regular, as you can ascertain for
yourself if you care to do so. For the present,
unless you want to upset the whole performance,
hadn't you better accept the situation, and instead
of making a spectacle of yourself before
the people"  a name she always applied to her
father's servants with something like contempt,
not, of course, putting herself on a level with
them  '* come and drink to the future happiness of
your daughter and son-in-law."

No one else save his own daughter would
have dared to beard him so openly as did this
bold-faced girl, who, as she finished her speech
drew off her glove, and taking her purse from her
pocket, took from it a broad wedding-ring, which
she quietly placed on the proper finger.

The action and the words *' making a spectacle
of yourself " were like fuel to fire, and it was well
for the listeners that a burst of applause from the
audience, heralding a feat of skill by the Signor,
drowned Mr Petman's further utterances.

He was literally beside himself, and became a
perfect fiend in his fury.

Even the men gathered round, used as they
were to pretty rough talk among themselves, began
to look a little awed, the two tumblers muttered

audibly to each other, the Breaknecks began
unconsciously trying the muscles of their
arms, George Epsom slashed his whip ominously,
as though he resented any one surpassing him in
the knowledge of bad language, the grooms left
off all pretence of harnessing or impressing
the horses for the next performance, while the
women 

There were but two in the little crowd.

The manager's daughter, if she deserved the
name of a woman, for she was far more unconcerned
than some of the men, stood with her hand
with the wedding-ring on her finger on her husband's
sleeve ; he was her husband by her own
showing. He was roused from his usual indolence,
and, if a certain dropping off his mouth, unbidden
by any moustache as it was, went for anything,
not a little cowed by the turn things were taking.

And the other women there %

Why should I say woman % for I have always
till now spoken of Lisette as a girl  little more
than a child  and she it was who was the other
spectator of this curious scene.

Why do I say  woman % My reader can guess
there would have been no need to answer could
any one have seen her as she heard the deathblow
given to her hopes by that cool collected
speech of Rosa Petman's and her still more conclusive
action  no one would have been able to
think of her again as a child, for she was now a

"!=)

woman  ay, and more than a woman  in her
pitiful helplessness.

She had come in her pretty dress in which she
was going to earn applause from royal hands,
dancing, because her heart was so full of joy,
into the tent, a child in appearance and in mind,
but scarce had she set foot within the curtains
than her girlhood seemed to slip from her into the
past, from which she was separated as completely
as those crimson curtains hid the splendours of
the ring and its gay laughing audience from view,
leaving her in the darkened ante-room, where
she felt a woman's bitterest sorrow weighing her
down.

She stood like one transfixed  turned to stone
as it were, her hands twisting all unconsciously in
an iron grip the dark cloak which in her sudden
movement forward had slipped from her shoulders,
exposing the pretty dress which she had donned
in such high glee but a few moments before, the
face under the gilt helmet and plumes devoid of
every vestige of colour, the sparkle of expectancy
and happiness died out of the beautiful brown
eyes as they remained fixed with a wild unmeaning
look on what in the crowd was alone visible
to her, as it had so often been before, but never
so clearly as now  the face of her lover. What
mockery it all seemed  the glittering dress, the
bright hopes, the happy dreams for the future all
swept away by those few words from the lips of
Rosa  why do I hesitate to write the name? it
cannot untie the bond which gives her a right to
claim it  Rosa Hermann.

Yes, Carl Hermann's wife.

Poor staring brown eyes, well may they gaz
so fixedly at that face. It is all that is visible
to them from out the mists which are gathering
round to shut out all else.

Look well, I say to them, for it is a sight
you have not seen before, and which I pray
you may never see again. Whose face is it, do
you ask?

Well may you put the question. Yet it is a
face you once knew well, only now the mask
has fallen from it, showing you how much the
honeyed smiles and words which crossed the thin
lips were worth. It is the face of your false-hearted
lover.

Well! Have you looked long enough! Nay,
nay, I say you will do no good by staying here.
This man is nothing to you now. He does not
even heed your glance. His eyes are for his wife,
who stands so proudly and defiantly by his side,,
beside whose presence you are accounted small
and insignificant.

Has he not chosen well? Beauty and wealth.
Has it not been told you but a few hours before
how this proud girl is not penniless like yourself?
She has wealth, or at least will have ; her father
must have no little store, she is his only child, and
there is the rich old aunt whose days they say are
numbered. Has Carl Hermann counted them, I
wonder? Perhaps, for he has braved what to-some
is no light punishment  the manager's wrath
and even now stands with presence of mind
enough to calm the anger which is flushing his-handsome

wife's cheeks, and bids fair to set his
child against her father.

This of course her husband does not wish. So far
he has laid his plans with skill, he must not fail now.

But there, come away, you have seen enough.

But Lisette does not stir. So still she stands,
she scarcely seems to breathe. But by-and-by she
wakes to life.

One of the grooms  Smith  her faithful follower,
with an awe-struck, fearful face  fear, not
of his master, but for the still form and white,
white face, which is telling all unconsciously to
others the tale he with all his dull brains has
learnt long ago  has crept to her side, and it is
his timid touch on her arm which calls her once
more to life.

He motions rather than tells her she had better
go. This is no place for her. The words of a
father may be fit for the ears of his own child, butin
Lisette's presence they are doubly sinful because
of her helplessness and innocence.

So much is intelligible even to poor Smith's not
too vivid imagination, and prompts his movement
to her side.

As though in a dream she obeys his beseeching
gesture, turns, and glides like a living ghost to
the door.

But ere she can pass out a demon bars her way.
Her movement had attracted the attention of Mr
Petman. His raving as he plainly saw took not
the slightest effect on those for whom it was intended.


VOL. n. I

In an evil moment his eye had fallen upon
Lisette ; a new idea came suddenly into his mind,
of which she was part, and quick to prevent her
escape he planted Himself before her.

Then all unheedful of the white wan face, which
to any human heart must have pleaded for mercy,
the torrent of his passion burst forth once more 
upon whom? None other than our poor dazed,
bewildered little heroine. Some evil genius had
a short time before prompted him to take an interest
in the private affairs of one of his company,
that one Lisette.

He knew more than any one suspected of the
history which but a few moments before had had
Finis written across it, and this knowledge he now
used with a cruelty which was but compatible
with his brutish nature.

In a moment his vile tongue had literally emblazoned
forth the little German girl's love story
which we already know. The secret which she
had guarded so carefully was laid bare to its
very core, while the same cruel hand broke down
the defence behind which she had endeavoured
to hide herself and her pain, tore into so many
tatters the flag of a woman's silent suffering, and
held up the poor shattered hopes to scorn and
ridicule.

'* So you would run away, would you ? " he said,
as he barred the way with his portly figure, putting
his ugly crimson face close to hers. " What
for? You haven't got anything to be ashamed of,
have you % You haven't gone and disgraced yourself

by marrying a low sneaking scoundrel who
ain't no good but to sweep a crossing ! You ain't
such a fool. Take a lesson by my dutiful daughter

and don't make such a mess of your love

affairs as she has. Fly at high game is what I've
told her times enough, and this is how she takes
my advice ! Now you, if you'd have been a little
more sharp than you were, might have saved this
fool's work. Hermann there (with an ugly leer)
was a-hanging after you time enough before he
took up with my daughter ; he knew how to
feather his nest, but why didn't you nail him?
He'd have been just the sort of chap for you, and
you were precious sweet on him at the time.
Don't deny it "  Lisette had made no sign of
denial  " we'd all gc)t our eyes open ; but why did
you let him slip through your fingers? Ah, I
knows all about it, you see. I always like to be
sure as how my company is decent and respectable.
None of your shabby customers for me. I
daresay you think I ought to have looked after
our friend there a bit sharper. Will you give him
a character when I've chucked him out % Don't
be too hard on him. Plenty of fellows have played
fast-and-loose before now. I suppose, too, I ought
to feel flattered that he preferred my daughter to
you, but I ain't. Rose has been a fool, as she'll
find out before long. Why, she might have had
a regular London swell, with goodness knows
how many hundreds a year and all for a snap of
her fingers, and then perhaps this scoundrel might
have married you after all. But then you might

In the Riot,



have cut the show, aud I can't afford to spare you
just yet  I ain't likely soon to get some one as
handy at the business as you are. You goes
down with the chaps twice as well as that old
hag, Madame Petite. She'll have to give up very-soon
; the boys call her a bag of bones, with all
her dress and make up. What some gentlemen
of our acquaintance can see in her I can't think.
I haven't inquired into their private history. I
thought best not. Perhaps it ain't as goody-goody
as yours. It isn't a case of love, I'm think-
ing. You'll go on the same rule one of these days.
But I'll tell you one thing  if my girl has been
fool enough to throw herself away on this chap,
don't you go on with none of your old tricks.
I've seen you trying to wheedle round him with
your spry costumes and looks and ways. He's
thrown you over, but I'll look out he behaves himself
properly now he's Rose's husband. You find
some other fellow. You're not as handsome as
my girl, but you've got looks, and are handy
enough at your work to take any one's fancy.
You've been a fool, of course. You've regular
worshipped him,  been head over heels in love with
him. Any one can see that by the way you flung
yourself at his head, and what's more, if it was
only an engagement, which you bet your life I'd
soon put a stop to, instead of the affair being all
signed, sealed, and settled  he took care of that 
you'd have him back. Ay, that you would, this very
moment. As it is you can't, but you'll go and cry
your eyes out of your head and spoil your good

looks and set the whole show laughing at you,
and saying  "

What the show would say of this affair, Mr
Petman was not given time to express.

His worse than cruel harangue was at this point
.suddenly stayed.

All at once some one who till now had stood
like one struck dumb woke to life and sense.

All the men on hearing the opening words of
their master's long speech had glanced meaningly
at each other, and, as if by common assent, drawn
son one side and made a show of doing something
or other.

It was but a pretence, for while for the sake of
-one who was a favourite amongst them, they
wished it to be believed that they were deaf to
the words which were ringing round them,
they could not now and then forbear glancing
fearfully in the direction of that little figure
before which the manager had planted himself


Lisette had, it seemed, been so startled by the
attack so suddenly made upon her, that letting
her cloak fall from her shoulders to her feet, she
bad merely turned and faced him and stood with
her eyes  seeming suddenly to have grown twice
their natural size  fixed on his face, all unmeaningly
at first, so dazed was she. Then, as the
cold sneers and coarse rude taunts met her understanding,
she suddenly glanced round with a look
of wild uncertainty. Wherever she turned the
curious glances of those around her were all the

answer she received to a pleading they could not
interpret.

A moment, and then as though unable to resist
the torrent of jeers and sneers which was showered
upon her, she slowly drooped her hear! into her
hands, and stood bowed and defenceless before her
tormentor.

The moments had flown by, still Mr Petman
showed no signs of having exhausted the vials of
his wrath. The men gave up any make-belief of
unconcern, gathered in knots and listened in awe.
Rosa Hermann spoke in hurried whispers now and
then to her husband, who seeming too fearful to
reply in words, answered by an impatient gesture,
as he stood playing somewhat nervously with his
whip, and stealing now and then furtive glances
at the figure which drooped lower and lower at
every coarse word which fell upon her ears, so
lately deafened by a blow none the less cruel
while gradually from between the rigid clasp of
the enclosed fingers, a dull crimson flush, which
seemed to burn the hitherto pale face, made itself
visible.

It was a curious scene, a silence broken only by
Mr Petman's coarse tones  to which the band
outside played a little less harsh accompaniment
until suddenly, stung no doubt to the very
quick by the heartless blow inflicted upon her,
Lisette raised her head, showing a face on which
was imprinted by a fiery hand a look of wild,
agonised beseeching there could be no mistaking,
at least not by him to whom it was turned, as the

only one in all the little crowd who could aid her
in her sore extremity.

Nor (lid it plead in vain to the honest brave
heart, which beat so wildly that its owner could
scarcely breathe, much less move, until this signal
came.

Yes, oue glance at that face and Jerry was
stone no longer, but a loving, avenging soul, who
had suddenly awoke to the sense of what was
going on around him.

With a shout of defiance which made itself
heard above the music of the band, and caused
more than one of the audience to glance curiously
in the direction of the ante-room, all ignorant of
the little drama of human brutality  which was
only separated from their gaze by the crimson
curtains  he sprang forward with an agility of
which but a short time before he had not seemed
capable, dashed aside the arm which held Lisette
a prisoner, and with his face literally ablaze with
passion, his eyes flashing like two danger signals,
wrested the long whip from the manager's grasp.
In another moment the cord thong was whirling
over his head in a way which certainly
meant mischief to that gentleman's shiny baldpate.


But ere his hand could deliver the well-merited
punishment, some of the grooms sprang forward,
calling him loudly to desist.

But Jerry was beside himself with passion, and
refused to give way.

"Let go, you fool," shouted Will Breakneck,

amazed to find his match in the clown, who was
apparently so much his inferior in strength.

But Jerry still struggled, and it is uncertain
how the affair might have ended, had it not been
that suddenly above the din and confusion came
a cry of entreaty, in a voice which was shrill with
agony.

Jerry ! "

At the same moment a small white hand was
laid on his many-coloured sleeve.

The voice, the touch, had more power than the
combined strength of those around lira.

The whip fell from his hand to the floor, the
passion died out of his face as quickly as it had
risen, and with his arms hanging helpless at his
side he turned to Lisette, as she stood beside him,
not daring  not only because of his own fault, if
such it was  to meet her glance, but letting his
head sink low on his breast.

Come away," he said, in a low, scarcely audible
voice, strangely unlike his usual sharp, ringing
utterance. " Let us go away, or I shall kill him."

There was no mistaking the intensity of the
tone.

Lisette did not say a word, only turned  the
men, Mr Petman among them, fell back before
her in utter silence  and followed by Jerry, like
a dog following his mistress, she crossed the tent
with a slow, gliding step, very unlike her usual
light tripping walk, her slight figure no longer
drooping, but become tall and erect, that of a
veritable queen of womanly dignity.

Once only she paused.

It was when Jerry, with a trembling hand,
fumbled with the curtain over the doorway.

Then she turned and gave one last look at the
shrinking coward who had been quick to stand
up in his own defence, but had stood quietly by
and heard the woman he had once vowed he
loved, the woman who of his own will he had
tricked and fooled, held up to scorn and ridicule,
which his baseness had brought upon her  stood
by and never moved so much as a finger, uttered
so much as a word, to shield her.

Oh, Carl Hermann ! dearly will you have to
account for the part you have played to this
innocent friendless girl who trusted you so implicitly,
but double coward and scoundrel are you
for your craven fear to-day.

Well may you draw a step nearer to your wife ;
she has spirit enough, as you will soon learn.
Well may you cringe and move uneasily where
you stand, before the glance of those dog-like
brown eyes, which are tearless and dry  for the
death of faith is too deep a grief for tears  all
the flash and sparkle died out of them, in its place
an indescribable sadness, which dims their brightness
with dark misty shadows.

One moment they take that last look at you
and your haughty wife  side by side  then the
curtain falls over the two figures  Lisette and
the only friend there seems to be left to her in the
world  Jerry, the clown.

WHAT CAN I DO?

But though hearts may be nigh to breaking, and
it seems that so dark is the cloud above our own
heads that it must perforce throw a shadow over
the rest of the universe, we find our having a burden
to bear has no effect upon those around us.

The world goes on its way just the same as if
nothing has happened, which, indeed, on consideration,
is just as well, for every moment of the day
we should find ourselves at a full stop if we were
brought to a standstill by the troubles of our
neighbours.

No, we have got to live, no matter what happens
short of death, and that means going on
exactly as before  eating and drinking, and struggling
to get our daily bread just in the same old
way, as though we never entertained any thought
beyond getting through life in the quickest and
easiest way possible, which is not to say always
the most pleasant. So Lisette found it  indeed
the knowledge was even forced upon her, more

quickly than upon most people, whether for her
good or no it was hard to say.

There is no need for me to comment on the
scene already described, my reader will have
understood it far better perhaps than some of the
actors in it.

Our old friend Jerry, as will have been guessed
was perfectly stunned, so doubly confident had he
become, because he was perfectly satisfied there
had been no cause whatever for his misgivings of
the night before, so satisfied that there was really
no cloud in the sky to dim the brightness of
Lisette's happiness that the bursting of the storm
took him all the more by surprise ; indeed it was
some time before the true state of the case forced
itself into his mind.

Even when listening to Mr Petman's outburst
he had done so mechanically; it was not till
Lisette's unspoken pleading implored his aid that
he was able to rouse himself to any action at all.

What this was we have already seen, and lucky
it was, both for him and the worthy manager, that
when bodily strength was no match for him in his
passion, that touch upon his arm had yet power to
calm him.

Controlled, if not calmed by it, he had followed
her who gave it, and quitted the scene of what
had been doubly a blow to each of them.

The wish which each had felt was to get away
as quickly as possible from sound of human voice
and curious glance of many eyes, so they passed
out of the tent together.

But a few moments had passed since they had
entered, and what a magic touch those seconds
had had! I do not mean strictly in appearance 
as is often the case when a hero and heroine go
through some great ordeal  when hair turns white
or is suddenly streaked with grey  or a fresh
young figure becomes all at once old and drooping
 all its life gone  nothing but a weary, spiritless
body left.

No, to say the exact truth, no transformation
whatever had taken place in either Jerry's hair or
Lisette's light little figure  the one stuck up as
bright and wiry as ever under his jelly-bag hat,
while the pretty dress of the fire-spirit was still
set off to advantage by the lithe figure of the little
fancy-rider. And yet there was an unmistakable
something about them both which told its own
tale.

When they had severally entered the tent it
had been with lightest hearts, such as made their
gay costumes seem but to fit in with their happy
moods.

Now what mockery they seemed. It is true
that Jerry's full trousers, garibaldi, and sleeves
still stuck out in all directions in the funniest
manner ; not even Mr Petman's wildest raging or
the sudden blow inflicted on the wearer's hopes
could take away from them the admirable stiffening
properties of Mrs Wheat en's starch, neither
had they had the slightest effect upon the tasteful
work of Madame Petite's fingers.

No,  but it is our faces which are the index to

our mind, and there was no mistaking that look of
wild unutterable passion which made itself seen
even under the rouge and powder  which had
been disposed on it with so much care but a short
time before, to call forth merriment, not to mock
at grief  or the white, drawn, utterly helpless,
hopeless look of the girl's. If ever a face bore
written across it " the end of all worth living for,"
it was Lisette's as the curtain fell noiselessly behind
them, shutting them from the ante-room.

But even in the passage without they were not
alone. There were sounds of voices coming
quickly from the direction of the dressing-rooms
which lay beyond ; and, as though unwilling to
encounter any more questioning eyes, Lisette
turned quickly away and entered a doorway on
the left, which was in fact the entry to a big
wooden building known as the stables. Here, at
least, they were alone, save for the presence of
dumb beasts, whose big dark forms in the long
rows of stalls on either side were just rendered
visible by the faint moonlight coming straggling
in through the door which stood open at the
other end.

Yes, here they were alone  out of reach of all
that sickening scene.

For a few moments they stood side by side in
the semi-darkness without speaking. Then suddenly
Lisette seemed to become aware of her
hold upon her companion's arm, which had gradually
tightened as she had turned to take that last
look at the picture in the ante-room  tightened

till the little white fingers had sorely crumpled
the many-coloured sleeve, and left a deep red
mark on the arm beneath. She did not herself
know how firm her clasp had been of this her only
support, nor, I think, did Jerry. It was only
when the hold was suddenly loosened that he
seemed to become aware of it.

Even then he did not move, only looked right
away between the rows of horses' heads, as
though determined not again to meet the glance
of those beseeching brown eyes, and said, in a
voice so stern and unlike his own, it was almost
gruff,

You heard what he said ? " with a motion of
his head in the direction of the ante-room. Was
there any need to ask the question? Had not
the appeal for his aid already given him his
answer. " You heard what he said % "

*' Yes," came the answer, in a low but perfectly
distinct tone ; " I heard."

And you understood % " asked Jerry again 
another unnecessary question.

Yes," again came the answer, in the same clear
tone.

You  you loved him very much ? " Why did
Jerry put such a useless catechism %

Yes," again replied Lisette ; " I did love him."

And now, what can I do for you % "

*' Nothing." No thanks, only the one word.

And you  what will you do % "

Again, " Nothing."

** Then God help you," said Jerry, in the same



stern tone, as though he were commanding rather
than asking a blessing. " God help yon." It was
such a prayer as men pray but a few times in
their Ives, and in his heart he added, "and me
too ; " and after a little, " and forgive him."

I am sorry to say this prayer for pardon was
not prompted by a forgiving feeling in his own
breast, but rather by a sense of *let Heaven
grant him pardon  I cannot."

Some men's just anger, fortunately for those
against whom it is directed, lies too deep for
action ; but I lay no claim to such nobility of
nature for my hero, and ill would it have been for
him had the cause of all the evil which had come
to pass stood before him.

Jerry was but mortal after all, and what is
more, of low if honest birth ; accustomed to a
rough, knock-about life, which made it second
nature for him to resent an injury in the way he
knew best  namely, by settling the account by
a few well-aimed blows straight out from the
shoulder ; in other words, a good stand-up fight,
which, if hardly as gentlemanly as contempt or a
battle of words with sarcasm for weapons, or a
secret resolve to bring disgrace and ruin on the
delinquent's head, was yet as safe a vent for one's
feelings, and at the same time a far more manly
one.

Thus, had Carl Hermann been within reach of
that strong muscular arm, he would have been
forced to give an answer for his dealings with an
innocent girl's faith, which, in the utterance,

might have caused no little damage to his slim
gentlemanly appearance, and sent him to his
handsome wife a far less lovable-looking object
than when he wooed and won her under cover of
his courtship with his unsuspecting little countrywoman.


As it was, however, Lisette had bidden him
keep his anger within bounds, and, of course, he
had nothing to do but to obey ; but, as he owned
to himself, he would far rather have " tackled "
both Carl Hermann and Mr Petman at once than
have stood by and done nothing. Action with
Jerry was far more necessary than thought ; and
to be obliged to stand by inactive, and neither byword
nor deed express the indignation which he
felt at what had passed, galled him more than I
can express.

His catechism of Lisette over, there was silence
again, until suddenly the baud in the circus,,
which, the Signor's performance over, had suddenly
ceased, burst forth again into the gay march
which it was well known heralded Daystar's
appearance, and followed immediately by a loud
burst of applause, which, as usual, told that the
lady-rider had entered the ring.

No doubt she was bowing and smiling and
looking as handsome as ever as she acknowledged
the warm greeting, and her husband would be
in attendance looking so proud and happy as he
heard the flattering remarks upon his chosen
wife's appearance.

Ah, it was all very well for her to smile and

respond to the greeting. She had no cause to
look pale and ill, and feel as though the life had
all gone out of her. But almost insensibly Jeny
felt some very hard words rise to his lips. He
had to bite his lips to keep himself from sullying
Lisette's ears with such coarse expressions as were
natural to his nature.

But again, inaction made his feelings all the
worse for him to bear, and if ever a wish could
have in some way crippled the talented Day star
and so hindered his mistress's triumph, it was on
that day of the last performance at the Gardens.

Fortunately, however, for Jerry's usual forbearance
and love of all animals, even the not too
sweet-tempered Daystar  wishes being said not
to have anything to do with horses  it seemed,
judging by the applause invoked, was going
through his tricks with his accustomed ease, and
earning for his mistress well-merited approval.

Those two standing so silently alone in the big
bare stable listened each with bitter thoughts,
till presently one of the horses in a stall near,
after peering eagerly over the gate, shook his
head and neighed noisily.

The pair started, and, as though recalled to
herself by what was to her a familiar sound,
Lisette turned in the direction of the neighing
steed. And sure enough it was Bonfire's dark
glossy head, who, recognising his old friend once
again, was engaged thus noisily in attracting her
attention.

Quietly and without a word the little fancy-vol.
II. K

rider stepped slowly across the rough floor, with
its carpeting of clean straw, until she was within
reach of the horse's stall.

The beautiful beast stretched out his head
eagerly as she advanced, arching his neck and
shaking his mane, no doubt his way of expressing
his joy at seeing her again.

Lisette stroked his glossy coat gently, performing
the action a little absently and without any
colour coming back to her white face. But presently
Bonfire, after neighing interrogatively more
than once, put his cold nose into his new mistress's
hand.

It might have been that he was only seeking
for the apple or piece of sugar which she had
been wont to bestow upon him in the old days
when his former master had incurred his wife's
jealousy by teaching the little fancy-rider to ride
the beautiful brute ; but to Lisette it was like a
mute expression of sympathy, and touched her
more than all the blundering proffers of sympathy
which Jerry would have offered could he have
found words to frame them.

With a low quivering sigh, which seemed to
have been wrung from her very heart, she clasped
her arms round " Bonfire's " neck, and hid her face
in his dusky mane.

i\t the sound of the sigh, Jerry glanced round
quickly, fearing to find that the bitterness of her
heart had been too much for her, half dreading
to see her lying stretched insensible on the floor ;
but when he saw her seeking from the horse the

consolation in her sorrow that he had not been
able, try as he would, to offer, he felt instinctively
that it was no place for any prying eyes  he was
not wanted. Perhaps it would have made his
thoughts less bitter if only Lisette had turned to
him in her trouble, had she but given him one
sign that his sympathy would be acceptable. Who
sooner than he would have proffered it?

But she had scarcely so much as spoken to
him, disdained to retain even his support, and
now turned to seek from a poor dumb animal
what he would have given her tenfold as readily,
while he must stand by and do nothing.

Oh, how inconsistent people are who are in
love ! Why is it they always claim so little yet
expect so much % Had not Jerry owned to himself
a dozen times at least that Lisette had no
suspicion of the true state of his feelings towards
her % Had he not more than once induced himself
to rejoice and be glad in the same? Had he not
admitted but a short time before that the period
of his imprisonment, and some other cause which
then he did not know, but now guessed, had
widened the distance between him and his little
friend? Above all, was she not the real sufferer
by the blow which had fallen, so much so that
it was a wonder she could retain so much consciousness
as she did?

Ah ! it is very often the way that in being hard
upon ourselves we often unknowingly do harm to
those we love.

Here was Lisette perhaps longing for a kindly

word, an expression of good-will to tell her she
had at least one friend in the world which seemed
suddenly to have grown so dreary and empty,
and Jerry envying even Bonfire his dumb way
of showing his feelings of affection, yet not daring
to be as bold as he was.

All he felt was that if he could do nothing but
stare vacantly around him, he had better relieve
Lisette from the burden of his presence, which
might be distasteful to her.

With a sudden gesture, which might have been
expressive of either impatience or anger, he turned
away, and with a rustling of the straw as he trod
it with unnecessary heaviness beneath his slippered
feet, he crossed the stable to where the door stood
open, and leaning against one of the supports
looked far out into the darkness with bright
burning ees, and a face which, in spite of
the cool wind which blew in from without, was
hot and throbbing with a glow of unnatural
excitement.

How long he stood thus he scarcely knew, it
seemed to him a long, long while, though it must
have been but a few minutes.

It was a strange picture the glimmering light
of the moon showed  the bare stable, with its
rows of dark motionless forms, save when the
tossing of some proud head told these shadowy
figures were not carved out of stone as they at first
appeared ; the girl in her strange dress, with her
dark head resting on Bonfire's darker mane, her
white arms clasped round his arched neck, he

standing like a statue, as though he knew why it
was his mistress remained so long in the same
position, only now and then rubbing his nose
slowly up and down her shoulder as though bidding
her be comforted, and in the doorway the
young clown in his parti-coloured dress, his hands
as usual plunged deeply into his voluminous
pockets, his hat far at the back of his head, his
face with its covering of paint and powder.

Truly this was a glimpse behind the scenes.
We are so apt to think that those gaily-dressed
beings who disport themselves so airily in the
ring amidst all the excitement of music, many
lights, and loud applause, lead a sort of butterfly
existence. Any one who can dance so well, or
make us laugh till our sides ache, cannot have
very much to do with care ; and when perhaps
some artiste fails to please us as much as usual we
call her dull and stupid, and scarcely deign to
give her the encouragement of our applause, forgetting
how often a full heart may beat under
the tinsel bodice, how weary limbs and aching
brain make feet trip less lightly and jokes be
uttered mercilessly by a tongue which longs to
give relief to an overbearing mind by other words
than those of silly jokes and wheezes which have
been uttered scores and scores of times before.

As Jerry stood at the door, in a double sense did
the glitter seem to have fallen from him. His
thoughts were very bitter, and the evil passion
very strong within him. And truly his lot seemed
a hard one.

Had it not. been enough that the love of hi
life should have been withheld from him, but
must he suffer the double pain of seeing what had
been denied him trodden ruthlessly under foot by
one who had proved himself so unworthy of it V

Small wonder Jerry's thoughts were bitter
ones.

He did not at first, like perhaps other lovers
would have done, see in this trampling under foot
a hope that he might perhaps be permitted to
gather up the precious fragments and unite them
into what they were before, guarding them so
carefully that in time no one should be able to
say it was the same precious treasure which had
been so ruthlessly bruised and shattered.

No, the blow had been too swift and' sure to
leave room in his heart for any faint glimmer of
hope. At least so it seemed at first, but by-and-by
as he grew more calm, and he began to review
what had passed in a clearer light, and call
to mind Lisette's answer to his question, " What
will you do % " *' Nothing,"  he began to see before
him what the future must be for her; and
almost insensibly came the idea, " If she would
but let me take his place I would smooth the
way for her in the world. It will seem so big and
lonely now, even worse than before."

And though at first he tried to put the thought
from him it still came back again, until almost
unconsciously he turned and looked in the direction
of the object of his thoughts, with a heart
beating like wildfire beneath his many-coloured

body, he peering through the darkness as though
he expected to see Lisette turned towards him,
her arms outstretched for him to go to her  an
answer to his unspoken question in her face.

But no, his wild wish was not, could not be
granted. Lisette had not moved, only become
like every one of the other shadows, motionless
and still.

What should he do? A hundred times Jerry
asked himself that question, but without ever
finding a satisfactory answer.

If she would only move or speak, give some
sign, look up, or even sob and let him know that
tears were relieving her pent-up sorrow, he would
have dared go to her and say what was in his
heart.

As it was, he only stood looking with hungry,
eager eyes at her across the darkness, letting the
precious moments go by, and fearing to risk all for
what was most dear to him in life, lest he should
lose all.

Ought he not to have been taught a lesson
by the loss which delay had caused him when he
had debated the same question some weeks
before %

Surely he will not hold back now. Yet see, he
still falters, his hands play nervously with his cap,
which he has taken off to wipe away the beads of
perspiration which have started on his forehead,
till presently he replaces it on his head, and
cautiously, as though afraid any one should see the
action, he raises his arm and kisses tenderly the

crumpled part of his sleeve on which Lisette's
hand has rested.

It is a silly thing to do perhaps, for what is he
really kissing but a few inches of starched rag?
but it exactly illustrates the funny quirks and
cranks in my hero's character.

Here was he wasting his time in adoring, as it
were, the spot where her fingers had rested, and all
the while afraid to venture to offer a consolation
which could not fail to be sweet, if it only gave
evidence of one true spirit which was ready to
bear a breaking heart's burden.

Come, Jerry, come! what is there to fear?
Though she may put the thought from her now,
will she not perhaps remember it with increasing
kindliness when time has healed the wound it was
meant to bind up ?

But still Jerry pauses, looking eagerly, expectantly,
expecting he knows not what, across the
darkness at the motionless figure beside Bonfire,
shifting uneasily from one foot to the other,
smoothing down his dress with nervous hands,
and twisting his head restlessly from side to
side.

Hark ! Another burst of applause. The people
are liberal in their approbation to-night, and Daystar
no doubt is being made to exert himself to
the utmost under his mistress's firm hand.

This surely will rouse Jerry to a sense of how
time is passing. But no, it rather seems to increase
his indecision. Then suddenly, as the
noise of much clapping of hands dies away, the

silence which follows is broken by a sound from
the other side of the stable, a long fluttering
sigh.

It is from Lisette, and she moves uneasily, and
without raising her head rubs her hand caressingly
over Bonfire's glossy neck, and he again
answers by rubbing his head up and down her
shoulder.

The sound and sight recalls Jerry. He waits
no longer, but darts rather than walks across
the short space which divides him from her he
loves.

Lisette," he says in a hurried whisper, laying
a trembling hand on her arm  " Lisette ! "

He paused, for he wants to see her face before
he dare venture further. At his touch she raises
it and looks up wonderingly and half dazed at
him, while Bonfire discreetly draws back a few
paces.

Lisette," says Jerry again, and a sudden wild
hope leaps into his heart, but ere he can give
utterance to the words which are rushing to his
lips, there is a sound of voices near at hand. Miss
Hartzmann's name being repeated in loud tones.
There was evidently no little excitement going on
in the passage outside, of which the little fancy-rider
was the cause.

I tell you," said an angry voice, unmistakably
that of the manager, though his tones were less
high and rather more sulky than when we last
heard them, " I tell you I won't cut it out. Do
you think I'm going to disappoint them after

Rosa making such an ass of herself this morning?
What do I care if that Hartzmann girl did choose
to take offence at what I said ? Wasn't it the
truth? Ride! of course she'll ride; if she don't
I'll have her up for it, and if I don't lay the
damages at a pretty penny, and get 'em, my name
ain't Charles Petman."

This speech had once again interrupted Jerry
for at the sound of the voices Lisette had shrank
back into the shadow.

The voices came nearer. The speakers were
evidently making for the stable, and in a few
seconds would have discovered the hiding-place of
the missing artists.

Jerry hastily put all thought on one side of
saying what he had to say, to give his attention
to the matter on hand.

One thing he decided in his own mind. Not
for all the managers in the world should Lisette
ride again that night  for Mr Petman less than
any.

He said so in a hurried whisper to his companion,
and she made no reply.

At that moment Smith the groom entered the
stable, peering in a blind way from right to left.

Are you here, Miss Lisette? " he asked, in his
slow way.

Jerry went forward.

Yes," he said quietly, " Miss Hartzmann is
here, Smith ; Avhat do you want, eh? "

"Please, Mr Jerry, Miss Petman  leastways,
Daystar '11 soon be done now ; they've just taken

in the hurdles, and the master's a-asking where
Bonfire is."

There's Bonfire," said Jerry, with a gesture
towards that animal's stall.

Smith, although he knew well enough that the
horse was there, and in excellent condition, peered
at it concernedly for some minutes.

But Miss Lisette  the master's asking for her
too," he mumbled after a minute, evidently very
confused by Jerry's manner.

*' Tell him to ride the horse himself," said the
young clown, with quiet emphasis. "Miss Harts
will not appear again to-night. After what
has occurred, it is impossible."

But, sir," began Smith, positively aghast at
this open rebellion, " she's engaged to ride  "

But she wasn't engaged to be insulted as she
has been," replied Jerry wrathfully. " You go
and tell him what I've said."

The groom hesitated. He well knew the torrent
of abuse which would be showered on his
head if he ventured to take such a message of
defiance to the mighty manager. Fortunately,
however, for the wavering between his allegiance
to Lisette and his fear of his master, at that
minute several of his companions entered the
stables with the Signer's two horses. In the
darkness they at first did not notice the slight
figure standing so still beside Bonfire, and began
talking in an excited kind of way about what had
passed, which was naturally the theme of every
tongue.

For the most part their remarks were in favour
of Lisette, as they naturally would be  being men,
they were glad of an excuse of blackballing one of
their fellows  but at the same time it was decided
that the Hartzmann girl had been a fool not to
throw him over directly he had begun to show
any attention to the manager's daughter. The
reasons for his preferring the latter were roughly
but forcibly set forth in a way which made one of
the listeners shrink back farther into the shadow.

Jerry as soon as he could stopped the busy
tongues, and Smith, with much consternation, communicated
the news that the fancy-rider had
refused to appear.

This announcement was in more than one case
warmly seconded, but at the same time the inadvisability
of the course was subjected to much
comment.

"There '11 be the devil to pay," said Birkett,
who was busily engaged in getting into their
stalls the Apollo thoroughbreds, who were not a
little glad that their turn was over, and they were
able to return to the solitude and darkness of
their stable. " If Hartzmann's made up her mind
to let her turn go, she'll have to pays for it. They
won't weigh the master's words against the agreement,
if it comes to law. I know enough about
these affairs. It's all very well to say ' I won't
ride,' especially when there's yer mark against yer,
but there's no saying 'I won't pay' when they

blue you of two years' screw like that old

Burbox did me."

The recital of this little incident caused a revulsion
of views in favour of Lisette putting her
pride in her pocket and doing her duty.

I tell you she ain't going to ride," said Jerry
with an air of great determination.

More than one of his listeners was tempted to
ask what the devil it was to do with him, but
the question was put aside by a consciousness of
the necessity to settle the then more important
matter.

*' VVell, that's all I know," began old Turner,
who had a curious habit of beginning a conversation
in the middle of a sentence, as though he had
already been arguing the point with himself for
some time, which fact often led his opinion to be
of far more value than that of most of his fellows.
Well, that's all I know ; there's nothing more to
be said."

On being pressed to be more explicit, he said at
some length that Hermann had behaved like a
scoundrel, so much so that if Lisette had been
his daughter  here the old man sighed heavily,
his own and only child had been in the tight-wire
business until an accident had consigned her to a
couch, which with such injury to her spine she
had not left till she was carried out  "if she was
my daughter, I'd treat him to such a thrashing as
Jerry there seemed inclined to give the guv'nor.
If only the clown had ' gone for' the real offender,
they"  meaning the grooms  "would not have
been in such a hurry to hinder him ; the manager's
position made his conduct another affair.

I'd have thrashed that young master within an
inch of his Hfe, and spoilt his airs and graces for
some considerable time, and I'd give Miss Rosa a
taste of my mind. They wouldn't make such a
handsome couple when I'd done with them. This
comes of being mixed up with gentlemen. If
Hermann hadn't set himself up to be better than
the rest, he'd never have done the skulking he
has. I hate yer fine gentlemen with their sneaking
ways and soft tongues. Why can't they stick
to their own, and not come playing their dirty
tricks with them as ain't their equals, as they say.
What business had they to come and turn girls'
heads, and make 'em think all sorts of things as
do 'em no good, when the chap hooks it, and
leaves 'era to be the laughing-stock of the whole
company so as no respectable fellow '11 take up
with 'em for fear of being chaffed."

Cut it short. Turner," interrupted one of the
younger grooms, who, being a new hand, did not
share the universal veneration for the old man's
views. '' There's Daystar going his final gallop.
We'll have the guv'nor in a moment, and then
there '11 be no end of a row."

The long and the short of Turner's harangue
was, that if Little were his daughter he'd have
shown up, if only for the sake of showing that she
had some sort of spirit in her.

She ain't a-going to let them get the laugh of
her, if she's the sort of girl I take her for. The
old man's daughter's got the best of it, no one can
deny that ; but if I were in Hartzmann's place I'd

up and let them see I didn't care for all his sneaking
tricks. There's as good fish in the sea as ever
came out of it, and she being as honest and hardworking
a lass as ever lived  ay, and something
more, as makes you feel as it's a pleasure to be in
the same show with her  '11 bring good luck to
Lisette Hartzmann. Why, before that fine German
fellow has begun to find out what sort of a
temper his wife's got  and I knows enough to be
sure he's got more than his match  there '11 be
some one else willing to go down on his bended
knees and beg her to marry him. And no more
than she deserves, if she behaves like a sensible,
plucky girl now, and holds her head high instead
of moping."

The silence which followed his speech, uttered
with all the assurance of one who knew the worth
of every word which fell from his lips, was unbroken
for several moments.

Then there was a sudden movement in Bonfire's
stall, and to the surprise of some of the speakers,
Lisette stood before them  no longer the drooping
bowed figure they had last seen her, but
with erect head and dignified carriage, a touch of
stateliness about her which was quite new to
her.

"Thank you, Turner," she said, in her quiet
simple way, but yet not without a touch of
earnestness in her tone ; "thank you for speaking
as you have. I know you all mean it well. I
have been  silly, but I'll try and do as you
say, and not give to any of you cause for it to

laugh at me. If you will only please not to say
anything to me of what you know. I don't
suppose I shall be able, but I'm going to try
and forget all about it. And, Jerry," turning
to the young clown, "please, I'd rather ride tonight."


Jerry, in a low whisper, began to expostulate,,
but she put all his arguments quietly on one side.

I don't like to do what you do not wish," she
said; "but really I must ride. It will not hurt
me. I am quite myself now. It was only Mr
Petman frightened me. I should be sorry to disappoint
the people again ; and, besides. Bonfire is
so anxious to atone for his naughtiness this morning.
Yes, I must ride. Will you please get
Bonfire ready ? "

As Jerry could say nothing in answer to this protestation,
and as the prolonged burst of applause
which made itself heard told of Daystar's exit, the
fancy-rider's request was readily acceded to ; indeed,
there was a fight for the honour of so doing,
such a glamour of glory had Lisette's conduct
cast over her. Rough and uncultivated as the
men were, they could yet sympathise with and
honour in their own way, one who had been so
hardly treated.

Here, you, Joe," said Birkett, leading Bonfire
out of his stall, " you run and get the saddle ;
we'll put it on her in here. You'd best ride him
on, miss. Now then. Smith, do leave a bit of skin
on the beast," for the groom was venting his feelings
in rubbing the fire-horse down in a way

which promised to give a fine gloss to his coat,
but was somewhat trying to one who has ah-lady
gone through the operation preparatory to the
performance.

In a few minutes all was ready ; and, putting
one foot into Smith's hand, Lisette sprang into
the saddle, without having said another word
save a few quiet thanks to her willing servants.

But while she gathered the reins in her hand
she seemed to hesitate.

Are you ready ? " said Turner. " Look sharp !
Miss Rosa's just taken one call, and it won't do
any good to keep 'em waiting."

"I am coming," said Lisette, while Smith
smoothed out the folds of her dress and arranged
the drooping feathers of her helmet with a reverent
hand, but still she seemed loath to go from
the sheltering darkness into the light.

Till now Jerry had stood motionless by, refusing
to give anything more than his assent to the
proceeding ; but now he, as usual, stuck his hat
on the back of his head, and giving himself a
'pull together," as he phrased it, took Bonfire's
bridle in his hand.

"Your turn comes after, Jerry ; you ain't going
too."

** Let it ; I'm going on now or not at all," said
the clown, with unnecessary fierceness.

But the guv 'nor  '

Let him go and be hanged ! I tell you I'm
going on now, and I'll give him his answer if he
tries to prevent it." And away the clown went
VOL. II. L

leading Bonfire, while Smith held aside the
curtain.

In the ante-room considerable excitement was
rife as to what would be the issue of what seemed
likely to be a serious rupture between the manager
and his company, while several times already
the bandmaster had sent to know if he was to goon
with the Bonfire music, or what was the matter
that he had not received the usual signal.

"All right, she's coming," said Will Breakneck,
who was very much interested in the affair. " By
Jove ! " in a loud aside, " she's a plucky one. I'm
if I would have shown up, if I had been her."

Once more the men fell back to make way for
Lisette to pass, Bonfire stepping proudly and with
arched neck, as though he was aware of the precious
burden he bore. For a moment Lisette
placed her hand over her eyes to shade them from
the glare of the light after the darkness ; but perhaps
afraid it might appear that she was doing so
to hide her face, she drew it down ; and looking
neither to the right nor to the left  keeping her
gaze fixed on the white star between Bonfire's
cars  let Jerry lead her where he would.

Straight through the ante-room they passed
to the entrance, at the side of which stood Mr
Petman, still talking excitedly to his daughter.

He turned at Bonfire's approach ; and Rosa
Hermann, whether to make way for the horse, or
because she did not quite like to meet Lisette's
glance should it be turned upon her, shrank back
a little into the corner.

Jerry paused a moment before the manager
to say, in that quiet unquestionable manner of
his, 

It's no use my attempting those tricks tonight,
Mr Petman ; I'm going on as usual with
Miss Hartzmann."

I doubt if the manager would have been able,
in his astonishment at this cool treatment, to
find words to disagree with the arrangement,
but Jerry did not wait for an answer.

He motioned to two of the men to open the
curtains, and still leading Bonfire, entered the
ring, not, in fact, letting go that animal's rein
until the signal from the band made it absolutely
necessary for him to do so.

There is, I think, no need for me to describe
the performance, having already done so when
it was attempted by the manager's daughter in
the morning, although in the opinion of the
spectators that lady, even allowing for ill-temper
on her steed's part, had been far behind her
successor in grace and cleverness, and they applauded
the pretty rider vociferously, giving her
the best "call" of the evening. The royal personages,
who had begun to show some slight
signs of ennui at the repetition of the same old
"acts" they had seen hundreds of times before,
even signified their approval by coming in the
general demand for a repetition of one or two of
the best tricks, smiling graciously when, in return
for the honour, Lisette caused the good Bonfire
to bow three times before their seats.

Of course it was all very jolly to be the favoured
rider.

I wonder how many in that vast throng envied
her her life. It seems so awfully nice to have
nothing to do but wear pretty dresses and
make a horse perform tricks that he has done
hundreds of times before, with the lights blazing,
the gay music playing, and admiring crowds
applauding.

All very easy and jolly, of course 

But 1 wonder did any in that vast throng stop
to compare between the little fancy-rider who
had so lately appeared before them, all smiles and
gaiety as she flew like a bird through the balloons,
always selecting for some more special exhibition
of skill or grace that held by the tall young ring-master,
at whom she would every now and then
turn and smile in a way which set certain impassioned
adorers in the sixpenny seats  public
performers make heaps and heaps of conquests
of which they know nothing, which perhaps is
just as well, as the knowledge of the score of
hearts which they nightly enslave might interfere
seriously with their business  Lisette's smiles at
Carl Hermann, I say  making her impromptu
admirers in the cheap seats positively her sworn
slaves for the rest of their lives. Did any one mark
the contrast between this certainly very happy-looking
little artiste and the Fay of Fire. True,
Lisette, as I have said, seemed to have lost none
of her old grace with the acquisition of skill in
managing Bonfire, and sharing his tricks, but

there was no longer the half-laughing, half-serious
interest in her work. She had no shy
smiles and stray words for any one now, and even
when she bowed in acknowledgment of the applause
bestowed on her, there was no answering
sparkle in the pretty brown eyes. Her face was
unnaturally pale, save for one bright spot in
the centre of each cheek. AAQien she rested between
her tricks, instead of looking round at the
audience, as she usually did, with a childish delight
which was not vanity, to see the many faces
bright with pleasure which she had helped to
produce, or watching with interest, as she used
to do, the antics of the clown who employed the
intervals with his antics, she amused herself by
plaiting Bonfire's mane, or playing absently with
the lace on her dress.

It would, I may here say, have been needless
for her to have paid any attention to Jerry when
it came to his turn to disport himself. He had
said it would be perfectly useless for him to attempt
to appear in his new character of conjurer.
Every trick had gone as completely out of his
head as though he had never spent so much time
in mastering it.

He quite forgot all about the little pleasure he
had promised himself of looking for the two wives
who, with their husbands and children, had been
the recipients of his generosity.

He could just imagine how they would enjoy
the show  for Jerry was a staunch believer in
the alluring wonders of the show in the eyes of

other people. He had meant to bring in a bit of
"gag " about them, just for the fun of seeing how
surprised they looked at their story being known
and because, with pardonable vanity, he thought
their country minds might attach more importance
to the event, and look with greater awe at
his antics, if they knew that it was actually one
of the performers who had spoken to them, as it
had done in the case of Old Joe, the carter, on that
day when he had given Jerry and Lisette a ride
in his hay waggon, and afterwards paid a visit to
the circus by the former's express invitation.

But, though in a conspicuous position such as
his kindness had procured for them, the two
families were feasting both eyes and ears on the
wonders before them, the clown never so much
as looked their way, and to this day, when they
speak of the grand things they saw, they wonder
who it was to whom they owed their pleasure.

And, curiously enough, just at the back of these
two families were the half-a-dozen jolly girls 
this time under the chaperonage of a stout lady
and a happy-looking gentleman  enjoying for the
last time the performance, and bestowing their
applause with right goodwill.

But Jerry never saw them either, or he might
have wondered whether any of their sharp eyes
had seen what, perhaps, was not visible to other
people  whether any of them had been able, by
means of Lisette's pale face and altered manner,
to add another chapter to the little romance they
had woven all in sport. No, Jerry was in na

mood for such outside thoughts. Under these
circumstances, perhaps the most advisable shingle
could have done would have been to have
given up his turn entirely, but this he would not
do. He had a kind of feeling that he must be
near Lisette  if anything went wrong during
Bonfire's performance ; if, as was not unlikely
after what had occurred, she lost her nerve, which
in a performance like hers was the very worst
thing that could happen, he should somehow
imagine it was his fault were he absent, or, at
least, that it might not have happened had he
been by.

So disregarding the twinges of pain which his
injured foot had more than once given him as a
reminder that he had better not attempt too much,
he returned at a moment's notice to his old antics
and jokes, and if the latter had a less hearty ring
about them he covered it by an extra number of
somersaults and nimble jumps, for often, in such
cases where the heart is concerned, the body is far
more obedient than the mind.

How was it to be expected that he could give
the well-worn wheezes with as much point as
usual when his confusion of thought was so new
to him ? It is time only that gives the power to
act our parts and hide our aching hearts beneath
a laughing exterior. It was small wonder if
sometimes his tricks and wheels were brought to
an abrupt conclusion, because he began his evolutions
always with a glance at the white strange
face under the shining helmet which glittered so

gaily in the gaslight  a face which was before whig
eyes when all else had become a mist, because of
his rapid movement from hands to feet  over andover.


All the while, too, that Bonfire was making the
circle of the ring, the young clown followed every
movement of his rider with ever-watchful eyes.
Once, when she seemed to slip a little in her seat
when Bonfire swerved slightly in taking one of
his leaps, he started forward with a cry of terror,
which was fortunately drowned by the music ;
and when, the next minute, Lisette brought the
horse to a standstill, he (Jerry) had to be called
to a sense of where he was by a friendly nudge
from Will Breakneck.

GOING HOME.

Jerry's fears, however, proved to be totally unfounded.
Bonfire's behaviour was all that could
have been wished ; and, in fact, the whole performance
was pronounced highly satisfactory  at
least, so far as Lisette was concerned. I am not
sure but what, under any other circumstances,
Jerry's share in it might not have called forth
expressions of warm disapproval from Mr Petman.
As it was, however, that gentleman had too vivid
a recollection of the thrashing which he had so
narrowly escaped receiving at the young clown's
bands, to venture upon even so much as a quiet
remonstrance.

It is my opinion that had a few more of the
company treated the manager to a little of the
spirit of defiance of my hero  (I will call him so
now, although his circumstances have by no means
altered, and he was in outward appearance as
unprepossessing as ever)  had a few of his fellows
exhibited as much pluck as my hero did, their

master would have had fewer outbursts of passion
chronicled against him.

There is nothing overawes a passionate manlike
an exhibition of force equal to his own, and
I verily believe, had Jerry only been allowed to
give him the thrashing he so richly deserved, he
(Jerry) might from that day forth have ruled in
the show as king in place of his cowed superior.

As it was, however, I fear his well-meant efforts
were as likely as not to produce ill rather than
good effects. Mr Petman would undoubtedly be
subdued for a time, but that would not prevent
him nursing his feelings, and venting them at some
future period.

At last Lisette was permitted to retire from the
ring, preceded by Jerry, who, without stopping
to claim any share of the applause, slipped out
unceremoniously by skipping over the velvet
edge, so that when, after her third recall, Bonfire
disappeared for the last time within the velvet
curtains, he was ready at hand to take the good
horse's bridle and assist his rider to dismount.
Thank goodness, that's over," he said, as, letting
her hand rest lightly on his shoulder, Lisette
reached the ground.

Yes," she said, becoming again, now she was
behind the scenes, the same drooping, Useless girl
that is over." And she sighed heavily, no doubt
applying her words to some other affair than that
of her late performance.

At that moment Carl Hermann was heard
speaking sharply to one of the men. During

Bonfire's performance he had made himself scarce
either because of a few remarks which had reached
his ears while in the ante-room, which had made
it seem advisable that he should do so, or because
he really did not care, after what had occurred, to
come either in the way of his father-in-law or of
Lisette Hartzmann.

At the sound of his voice the latter put out
her hand hastily for her cloak, which .Jerry was
holding for her, and almost without waiting for
him to fold it round her, turned quickly away,,
and once more disappeared through the entrance,
.terry stood looking after her long after the curtains
hair hidden the scarlet dress from view. He
was debating in his own mind whether or not he
ought to put that question he had been so near
asking in the stables.

He knew  at least thought  he was a big,
blundering fool, who was as likely as not, in trying
to repair an evil, only to make it worse. I do
not mean to say that he expected his offer would
at once be accepted, and the whole complexion of
affairs be altered because of it ; nay, he was quite
prepared to be refused. But still there was that
lingering sort of feeling that it was the only way
he had got of showing Lisette at once wdiat the
true state of his feelings towards her were. Perhaps
by-and-by it might induce her to think more
kindly of him than she seemed to do at present.

That sigh and second meaning to his very innocent
remark, '' That's all over," followed by her
sudden change of manner at the sound of the

riding-master's voice, almost settled the question.


He, however, put in a conditional clause, which
made him set off to his dressing-room, and in
double-quick time tear off his motley garments,
slip into his ordinary suit, and then, with great
haste, betake himself to the gate of the Gardens,
there to wait until the little Fay of Fire should
pass out.

He had not long to play sentinel. A few moments'
walking impatiently up and down, and he
-espied the figure he knew so well coming towards
him, down the wide road.

As he watched her coming, he recalled to mind
the picture which had so cheered his heart in the
morning  the slight figure clad in the pretty light
dress, with its soft lace and bright ribbons ; the
bewitching little hat, with its drooping feathers,
shading the smiling happy face, walking along in
the sunlight by the side of the tall, handsome
lover. Now she came slowly, wearily along, in
the darkness, alone, with a long dusky cloak
hiding the pretty summer dress, a little round hat,
faded and shabby, on her head, over which a
thick veil looked like a thick mask, and entirely
hid her face. Touched inexpressibly by the dreariness
of the whole, Jerry waited until she Alas some
steps near him before he moved.

Then he started as though she was the last
person he expected to see, mumbled out some
excuse about promising to wait for Will Breakneck,
and ended his clumsy bit of acting by asking,

in a most humble tone, if, since she was going his
way, he might walk with her.

Though in her heart, no doubt, Lisette would
far rather have been alone, she made no resistance,
and together they passed out of the gate into the
crowded streets.

They did not talk much  each was too much
occupied with his and her own thoughts  but now
and then Lisette sighed heavily, then turned her
head quickly away as if to hide the sound. Jerry
each time glanced stealthily round at her, with a
queer expression in his grey-green eyes ; but
always seeing her little veiled face turned away,
he vented his feelings in a whistle  this, as we
know, not from any want of tact on his part, but
because it was his way of expressing his thoughts.
One might have told that these were just now
unusual ones, because he trilled the same air
over and over again, without indulging in any of
those wonderful and ingenious variations which it
was his wont to use, and always in a low key and
very softly.

It was a pity that Lisette did not understand
her friend better than she did  that she had no
thought for any one just then but for him who was
unworthy of it, for then she might perhaps have
discovered the meaning of the strange expression
on Jerry's face Which had so puzzled her for the
moment when they had been in the stables, but
which was put out of her head by other thugs 
for it was that expression that came into it every
time he turned his face towards her, only she would

Iveep her bead tui-ned away and her veil so closely
clown over her eyes.

Altogether the walk did not commence promisingly.
Nor did matters mend when, before they
had got many yards from the Gardens, Jerry's
injured foot began again to give him those sharp
reminders of Daystar's " little tribute of affection "
reminders which got sharper and sharper at
every step he took.

Added to this, in spite of the beautiful day it
had been, it began to rain  not a downright
determined shower, but a steady, sullen drizzle,
just sufficient to cause one discomfort, especially
if, as was the case with our two friends, they were
minus protection against it in the shape of umbrellas.
Still, as Lisette did not seem to mind
much, only drew her cloak closer round her and
trudged on silently, Jerry was quite content to
limp along by her side, with the raindrops running
round the brim of his hat and trickling in a most
heartless fashion over his collar and down his
neck.

At length, however, a more than usually deep
sigh  a very, very near relation to a sob  fell
upon his ear. Jerry could stand it no longer. He
turned suddenly towards his companion, and laid
one hand on her arm. *' Lisette," he began, but
Avhat else he was going to add was lost in a very

prolonged " Oh ," drawn from him by a more

than usually prolonged twinge in his foot, which
caused him to suddenly come to a standstill, remaining
on one leg while he drew the troublesome

member up from the ground. *' What is it % "
asked Lisette, visibly startled, and at last turning
to face him.

I don't know what Jerry intended to say, but 1
suppose it struck him that standing on one leg in
the rain in a crowded street, where people were
hurrying up and down fighting excitedly with wet
umbrellas, were hardly favourable conditions for
any lengthened conversation.

What's the matter % " he repeated, making a
wry face. " Why, I'm afraid my foot's going to be
troublesome. Suppose we take a 'bus the rest of
the way?"

Lisette hesitated, as though walking along in
the dreary street was more in keeping with her
mood than jolting along in an omnibus ; but while
she was saying something about an errand she
had to do on her way  that Jerry had better ride
it was no use hurting his foot  she did not at all
mind the walk alone  she was used to it  the
clown discovered that the shabby little velvet hat
was being completely done for, while the brown
cloak under his hand was fast getting wet through.
He took matters into his own hands, hailed an
omnibus just then passing, with, fortunately, two
vacant seats, and quietly assisted Lisette into it,
following with care himself.

Of course he had given his companion the most
comfortable seat  the one in the corner, where she
was out of the glare of the lamp  while he took
his place between two stout women with babies.
The former (meaning the mothers) were very tired

and hot, the latter (meaning the babies, of course)
very tired and hot also, besides being very cross.

I wonder why it is that babies have such a distinct
dislike to a crowd? There never was, to
my certain knowledge, one of these small specimens
of human nature in a well-filled compartment
of any sort but what it completely upset
every one by its unseemly behaviour.

What can be more trying to the nerves of anyone
 especially a tired business man  than when
he has indulged in the luxury of a "bus," to find
himself imprisoned opposite to a wailing, passionate
infant, who loudly demands to be tossed up
and doAvn, and have all the whole dictionary of
baby language talked at it, every now and then
giving vent to its feelings by throwing itself back
in its mother's arms with a force which makes
every one start, and say in a subdued whisper
Mind its back," and putting its sticky, dirty little
face as near into your own as possible.

I verily believe that were an omnibus company
to be started by whose rules children under a
ceram age were prohibited from riding in their
vehicles, the fortunes of the shareholders would be
made in a week by the numbers of people who
would hail the reform as a godsend.

Jerry, as will be guessed, had no particular objection
to children as a rule; nay, for a bachelor,
he was usually supposed to have a strong secret
predilection for them, but even his state of mind
by no means soothed by the pain in his foot 
was not equal to the powers of tormenting exhibited

by the offspring of the two ladies on either
side of him.

Not only was he literally being squeezed flat
between the two portly figures of the latter, but
every other second, by a dexterous movement,
one or the other, sometimes both, of the babies
would cast themselves back into his lap.

For this each mother, in turn, apologised in
becoming terms, but being afraid lest an affable
reply should bring about a detailed conversation
to the various merits and demerits of such little
animals, he contented himself by merely nodding
in answer.

At length, however, even his slight annoyance
was overcome  one infant having dropped to
sleep, the other became more and more boisterous
in its alternate fits of grief and glee. Now, it so
happened that opposite to its mother was a tall,
thin, hungry-looking man, very genteelly dressed
in black, with a high collar, black gloves, and eyeglasses,
which he balanced with great care upon
the tip of his very thin nose, while he read with
great deliberation an evening paper.

As ill-luck would have it, the wide-awake baby
seemed to have conceived a sudden dislike for this
same expansive sheet, and began With much ardour
to turn its jerks in that direction.

Three or four times it planted its shiny baldhead
in the offending article, each time causing
the reader to give a start of disagreeable surprise,
while his glasses were snatched from his nose, and
each time he (the gentleman) replaced his .
n. M

vez, smoothed out his paper, cast a wrathful glance
in the offender's direction, and returned to his
reading.

The deliberation with which he went through
this action on each occasion of the infant's performance
decreased, as the wrath conveyed in his
glance increased.

At length it seemed human nature could stand
it no longer. After a fifth repetition of the same,
he folded up his paper, rammed his glasses into
his pocket, pulled the conductor savagely by the
arm, and muttering between his teeth something
about "babies ought to be made to go outside''
descended from the vehicle.

His remark called forth many comments from
his late fellow-passengers, who, not having suffered
the inconvenience he had undergone, declared
he was " a hard-hearted brute," it was
' most unfeeling," " so long ago since he was a
child himself he didn't remember it," and such like
expressions of ready-made wit and sympathy.

The baby, however, having now turned its attention
to making violent attacks upon the bonnet
of a lady seated next to its mother, the said lady
getting every moment more crimson and angry in
the face under the determined pokes, prods, and
snatches of the wet fat fingers, Jerry, taking
advantage of the 'bus being in a very dark street,
where the lamps were few and far between, offered
to relieve the poor tired mother of her burden.

At first she was good-natured enough to be
loath to trouble him, but alarmed by angry muttering

on the part of the wearer of the bonnet,
Jerry forcibly took the matter and the child into
his hands, whereat the mother shook out her
rumpled skirts and re-arranged her toilet in the
patient way mothers of large families acquire, and
the lady on her left considerably relieved the
fears of a meek-looking young man on her left by
removing her substantial form a few inches off the
angular-looking parcel which he held with so much
mysterious care on his knee. And, wonderful to
relate, whether it was that there was a soothing
influence in being held in such a strong firm
hold, which made jerks impossible, I, also having
with the would-be reader of the Evening News
left my childhood's days somewhat behind me
-cannot say, but when the omnibus rattled and
groaned out into the glare of the High Street,
there was the demon of the 'bus sleeping the
sleep of the innocent, if looking hardly as sweet
as a rose-bud, on account of its late exertions, but
sall the same asleep and powerless in our hero's
arms.

So great was the relief expressed on the faces
around him, more especially on those of the worried
mother and the lady in the bonnet (the other
ladies in the omnibus had similar headgear, but 1
refer to the bonnet beloved by the baby), that
presently these latter began to chat quite affably,
and parted with a far better opinion of each
other's feelings as parents than they would otherwise
have done had it not been for Jerry's heroism.

Knowing this, Jerry ought to have felt very

contented. He did for the space of a few minutes ;
after that time, had any one taken particular notice
they might have wondered why his complexion
had suddenly become of such a deep crimson hue,
more so than usual  in fact, far outrivalliug that
of the lady in the bonnet.

And what do you think was the cause % None
other than that while examining with masculine
curiosity the tiny fat and dirty little face which
rested on his sleeve, the thought had occurred to
him how a man must feel when he knows that
time will reproduce in this miniature his own
features, with perhaps a better nature beneath ;
that it is his child to train as he will ; to be his
pride and support in old age ; and all of a sudden
instead of being softened by the idea, it seemed
to him out of place and thoughtless to think of
such happiness when other people were so unhappy.
He felt as if he should let the sleeping
baby fall, so bashful had he become of his burden.

He was not, however, kept long in his anxious
state. At the end of the High Street the conductor
poked a streaming hat and face in at the
window, and asked, or rather growled, in that
peculiarly gruff voice natural to conductors, " Anemone
outside  oblige lady," meaning, of course,
would any one take a seat outside in the wet to
oblige a lady.

There were at least half-a-dozen " gentlemen ""
in the 'bus besides our friend Jerry, who ought
really to have made the sacrifice, considering the
state of the weather, that it was the last 'bus that

night, and the lady was a poor infirm old woman,
scantily dressed, and already soaking wet through,
and in danger of a nice attack of her old enemy
rheumatics, because of her want of a *' gamp," but
each of these specimens of the sterner and self-denying
sex, the meek-faced bearer of the parcel
included, stared blankly at each other, without
stirring.

Up jumped Jerry, transferred his burden skilfully
from his own arms to the motherly ones outstretched
to relieve him of it with many grateful
thanks, vacated his cosy seat, carefully assisted
into it the lady, whose eyes brightened like two
sparks accidentally fallen among some dry,
wrinkled leaves, at the prospect of being able to
perform the rest of her journey in comfort,
although she was too old and crabbed to say
thank you," for Jerry's kindness, indeed called
him rather sharply a young fool when, in his
blundering good-nature, he trod on her ragged,
trailing skirt, and took his solitary seat on the top
of the vehicle on a soaking wet cushion, with the
rain taking the remains of the starch out of his
collar, and his foot, owing to his hurried ascent
to his perch in response to a gruff, "Look sharp,
can't yer ; I don't want to stay here all night,"
from the conductor, giving him more and more
decided reminders of his late imprisonment.

After having more than once echoed the conductor's
sentiments relative to his remaining on
the omnibus all night, Jerry at last saw the hospitable
lights of Mrs Parkins's lodging-house in the

distance, and in a few minutes made his way down
the slippery staircase oq to the step.

Here he paused to get his change for his fare,,
having purposely given the man a shilling in order
that he might have time to do so, while he poked
his head in at the window to say good-night to
Lisette.

There she was in the distant dark corner looking
vacantly out of the window, evidently having
forgotten his very existence.

Here, I forgot," he said to the conductor, who
had just given him his change, " I must pay for
that young lady in the corner."

In the interval thus employed, he thrust his
head in at the window again and called out in his
cheery tone, " Good night, mother," to the stout
old woman whose baby he had nursed, not, however,
venturing to cast another glance in the same
sleeping infant's direction.

The sound of his voice roused Lisette. She-looked
up quickly and returned Jerry's nod without
speaking.

As she did so the light of a passing cab-lamp
flashed on her face, and so overcome was our hero
by its pallor beneath the old veil, and the weariness
even in so slight a gesture, that he forgot to
tell her he had paid her fare  he would have said
made it all right," with a gesture in the conductor's
direction. The consequence was that on
arriving at her destination that worthy, whether
from having a bad memory, which I cannot think
he had, because it must have severely interfered

with his business, or from a desire to profit by
other people's forgetfulness  not being given to
studying human nature I am not at liberty to
say  at any rate the conductor redemanded his
charge, which, of course, Lisette paid.

But to make up for the baseness and trickery
of the conductor, I may say that Jerry's exit, or
rather alighting, was the signal for more than one
good-natured comment from those whom he had
benefited.

The mothers hugged their still sleeping children
to them and agreed that he was a "pleasant-spoken
young man  seemed as though he were
mighty fond of children  perhaps he was just
married himself, or if not, would make a rare good
husband and a father for children to be proud of,
if ever Providence did bless him with blessings in
the shape of likenesses to himself," and so on.

How Jerry would have blushed could he have
heard them. Perhaps it was as well he couldn't.

And yet there was some one in the crowded
omnibus on whose ears these words might have
fallen with pleasure, for who would not have been
happy to call such a " pleasant-spoken young
man " their friend %

But though Lisette heard, she did not heed,
nor smile as she would have done so short a time
before.

She heard, I say, but the next moment forgot
the words ; whether she ever had reason afterwards
to recall them remains to be seen, for her
mind was full of that one thought, which was,

perhaps, but natural to one of her nature  what
was there worth living for now? Why had she
ever lived to see the lamp of her life's happiness
go out so suddenly?

Ah ! it was cruel  cruel  for her to have been
treated so. She had loved Carl, oh, so much, so
very much, better than any one in the world 
there was no one she could ever love besides. If
only he had not said what he had, so much and
yet so little. If only he had come to her and told
her he must marry the handsome rich manager's
daughter she would have said  yet no  she would
not have been able to tell him to go. And now
he had gone of his own will, and, oh, over andover
again it came, all through that long night of
dreary weeping which followed that stony self-composure,
the unconsciousness of one who does
not fully comprehend. " Oh, it was cruel  cruel
for I loved him so."

But Jerry never knew of this wild agony and
bitterness. He had accepted his own fate so
quietly that it did not seem strange to him that
Lisette should do the same. His honest, kindly
heart was too full of what that day had brought
to have a thought for anything else. Had he
been a philosopher  that is, had he been given to
taking his religion straight from the Bible, instead
of from his own conscience  not that I doubt one
is as good as the other  he would have been justified
in saying that sufficient unto those twelve
hours had been the evil thereof.

His wet dreary drive had somewhat reduced his

spirits, which hitherto he had felt bound to keep
up, because he wisely concluded it would not
mend matters to give way. But now he was
soaking wet through, tired, with the pain in his
foot every moment increasing, disappointed in
what he had looked forward to, stunned and bewildered
at the wickedness of some people in the
world, full of pity for the innocent victim of the
evil, and out of heart at not having been able to
offer the consolation he so longed to do.

So there he stood on the wet pavement watching
the omnibus disappear in the distance, and
feeling somehow as though every step the tired
horses took as they carried Lisette away in their
Awake, was but emblematical of the steps which
circumstances had taken to cut him off from her
altogether.

He did not even try to shake off this mood, but
limped a sorry figure into his lodgings, where,
escaping as soon as possible from Mrs Parkins's
well-meant questioning as to his welfare since he
had started out, evading her inquiries as to how
the tricks had gone, he retreated to his own room.
As soon as he was able  namely, as soon as he
had partaken of the huge glass of something hot
and strong which the good lady had prepared for
him, and in spite of all his troubles too tired in
both mind and body to keep awake any longer,
ere long he was fast asleep.

A FALSE STEP.

"And of course," I think I hear my reader say,
Jerry woke up the next morning feeling quite
himself again ; he slipped into his old place in the
show, the ring-master and his wife were got out
of the way somehow, till Lisette like a sensible
girl forgot all her feelings for the former, or at
least thought better of her love for him, and let
Jerry win his way step by step until he quite
stole her heart away, and they were married and
lived happily ever after."

I only wish I could say fate was as kind as my
reader, for then much pain and sorrow might
have been saved ; but there is an evil genius as
well as a good one which rules our lives, and so I
fear, to tell my tale truthfully, I must say that
my reader is mistaken.

If Jerry's intention was to do as stated above,
his hopes were sadly doomed to disappointment.

On the morning following the night which
brought such strange things to light, he certainly

did wake, but as certainly not feeling himself
again. It was in fact to find himself a prey to
far worse pains in his foot than any he had yet
experienced, to say nothing of a severe cold which
he had caught during his wet ride.

He tried, however, with his usual cheeriness to
make the best of things, declared his cold would
be all right on the morrow, while a little more of
the doctor's stuff applied to his foot would soon
reduce it to order.

His hopes seemed likely to be fulfilled in one
direction but not so in the other. His cold
seemed but a slight affair ; but as that grew better
his foot grew rapidly worse, indeed the pain became
so unbearable that he readily consented to
once more putting himself under the doctor's hands.

That gentleman was accordingly sent for, and
came on his way to evening church, it being
Sunday.

He examined the foot, asked many questions
relative to what use it had been put on the day
before, all of which Jerry very reluctantly and
with not a little misgiving answered, and ended
by shaking his head ominously, in a way which
froze the marrow in our hero's bones  at the
same time rendering him unusually passionate
and was at length induced to give his verdict.

As before, he used a lot of technical language
so inwardly did Jerry  the long and the short
of which was that his evil prophecies had come
true ; of course the unfeeling fiend could not
avoid looking a little pleased that they had  no-one

could blame him for feeling glad at this
triumph ; Jerry's injudicious use of the injured
member had undone all the good that had been
done, and unless, as mentioned before, he chose
to run the risk of being lame for life, he must
submit quietly to go through a more lengthened
term of imprisonment than hitherto.

If before the knowledge of his doom had had a
most direful effect upon the young clown, his
feelings on the former occasion where nothing to
those which now filled his breast.

The show started on its wanderings on the
morrow and he should be let behind ! Lisette
would go without him  without any one to be
her true friend  alone with people who perhaps
meant well, but might not always act so  alone
when she was most in need of some one to stand
by her, to help and encourage her in her hour of
trial  alone, every day to see the man who was
to have been her husband  who had won her
heart and then flung it back at her  see the false
lover, friend, and man fawai and hang round his
handsome wife and bestow upon her the caresses
that once had been hers  to know what he was
to her, and what he was to himself  the treacherous,
mean hound.

Yes, day by day Lisette would have to meet
him as a stranger, and all so soon after 
yesterday, , when she had imagined like Jerry
that her fears had been silly and groundless ;
that if, as she had done lately, her little heart
had been made to flutter sadly because the proud

manager's daughter had demanded of him some
service, or because he had been less ready to pay
her the many little attentions he had been wont
to claim so eagerly till Miss Petman came, those
tears she had let fall were but idle, ungrateful
ones ; it was her silly jealousy had made the
clouds gather and cast a shadow ; then the sunshine
of the love she craved had cast its beams
around once more, and the sky was clear again.
Now it is no dream, no fancy of her own making,
the storm has fallen without a word of warning
on her head, and she must bear its fury alone,
when a strong kindly soul was so ready and
willing to be at her side to soothe and cheer
her, to fight her battles  to be as he has ever
been, her friend.

For some time after the doctor left, Jerry had
a very bad half-hour, the usual quart heure was
not sufficient for him, the fury into which he
worked himself causing his landlady no little
anxiety lest he was sickening for an attack of
brain fever.

At first he swore he would go with the show
nothing on earth should stop him, he'd go if he
went on his head (which remark, as we know, he
could easily have carried out), he'd see the doctor
hanged before he obeyed him, he was an old fool
and a swindler, who thought his patient was a
fool or a baby to be ordered about as he chose.
This statement he repeated at least half-a-dozen
times, each time in a more forcible manner, at last
working himself up to such a pitch that in spite

of all Mrs Parkins could say he got np and essayed
to walk across the room to try his powers.

The first two or three steps were all right, at
the fourth he had a sharp warning that he had
better desist, but disregarding it, he tried one
more, with the result of his executing a most inartistic
fall on to the floor, where he sat for some
moments holding his injured member with both
hands, his mouth twisted up into a most curious
shape, his face getting every moment of a deeper
scarlet hue with each spasm of pain. After this,
he gave up all thoughts of taking another step,
allowed himself to be helped back to his chair, like
a lame dog to his kennel as he phrased it, where
he not too graciously dismissed his willing nurses,
and alone in the dingy little parlour, gave himself
up to such a fit of the sulks as he had never been
known to indulge in before.

As, however, this way of venting his feelings
did no harm to any one, but only made him feel
very much ashamed of himself afterwards, he
might have pitched upon a worse.

At any rate it successfully cleared the atmosphere.
After that half-hour he was a wiser, if
a sadder man. With the utmost humility he
promised obedience to every order of the doctor's,
astonishing that gentleman  who had previously
looked upon this patient as one of the very rough-and-ready
sort  by his politeness and courtesy
when next he paid him a visit.

He also resolved to attend to every direction
and suffer resignedly the queer sensations up and

down his back which the application of some of
the remedies produced, and vowed that nothing
in the world should make him walk on two
feet again until he had the doctor's full permission.


Having thus, as he called it, given himself upto
his tormentors, Jerry saw the day go by with
calm resignation  in his determination to be perfectly
patient giving himself no chance to escape
from what, had he been poetically inclined, he
might have called " the chains of fate."

In his stupidity it never occurred to him to
make an effort to see the object of all his uneasiness.
Truth to tell, as it is very often the case,
the reflections of the evening before assumed a
very different complexion in the sober light of the
morning.

Thus Jerry's very rosy plan for the promotion
of his own and Lisette's future happiness, which
had seemed so very delightful on the night before,
now appeared in a very different garb. It seemed
to him that in his excitement he had been guilty
of a piece of selfishness, in which he placed his
own happiness far before that of the person most
concerned  namely, Lisette. How was it likely,
he said to himself, as he recalled the white, wan
face which had haunted him the whole night
through  how was it likely the little German girl
would so soon recover from the blow she had
received? What a fool he had been even to
dream of it  nay, worse than a fool  what did he
not deserve for his selfish plans. How lucky it

was that circumstances had conspired to defeat
his object !

Indeed, so great was his remorse for his now so
greatly distorted intentions, that the whole tenor
of his thoughts assumed a different shape  the
hopes of a few hours before were shattered once
more, and new and what seemed to him far wiser
resolutions adopted.

What a pity it is some of us will not be content
to be guided by impulse, but persist in shaping
our courses for ourselves, instead of trusting in the
hand of fate, Providence, or whatever it is that
shapes our destinies for us.

Thus with a remorseless hand Jerry once more
set to work to pull down his castles in the air,
and in their place erected a sort of makeshift
building which he fondly imagined would endure
for ever and afford ample protection for all his
few wishes and fears for the future.

Thus it was that he quietly accepted his fate 
keeping one thought only present in his mind. It
was this  that since it was not his luck (so he
had decided) to have the greatest desire of his
life granted, he was not going to waste his life in
idle fretting over either his own ill lot or, what was
far worse, that of the little fancy-rider ; but where
he couldn't be anything nearer, he'd be what was
next best, a true friend and a brother so long ashe
had breath left in his body to be so.

But even this resolve he had decided to keep a
secret, so cautious had he become all of a sudden,
not thinking that if the burden of a nearer

relationship might have been irksome to Lisette,
the knowledge that she had one true, devoted
friend in the world which seemed so dreary and
bare to her now, could not have been Without
comfort to her. But it is just like this, that when
over-daring might be pardoned, we often err on
the side of over-caution.

So the day went by very slowly for Jerry, and
still more so for a Aweary little lovelorn damsel in a
still more lonely lodging in the little country town.

And while I am upon the subject, no doubt my
reader is anxious for some elucidation of the conduct
of my fine gentlemanly young ring-master.
This, I fear, is impossible.

It may be implied that I am prejudiced somewhat
in favour of my hero because he is a good-natured
sort of fellow, idiom nature has not
treated very liberally as regards outward exterior,
hence my reason for making him out to be far
from an Adonis, while by the rule of contraries
the villain of my play is so much his opposite.

Judging from this it would seem that in looking
round us for those we should trust, we should
place our faith in those whose claim as ornaments
to society is small ; but such is not the case. I
am only stating facts as they are known to me,
and can only regret that my hero can never be
anything but a very common-place circus clown,
living his life as best he knew hoar, like most of
ns, and only feeling what any of us would have
done under the same circumstances  especially
with such an influence as the little German girl's
VOL. II. N

to bear upon him, in the same degree as even the
tiniest rush light will have upon the gloom of a
darkened room, yet such as will be utterly unnoticed
before the overpowering glare of a flaring
gas-lamp.

Such may have been the young ring-master's
comparison between the two women with whom
he had been brought in contact ; but what had
led him to act as he did, it is difficult to say.

It has been pleaded before now, that even a
man's love may be blinded and dazzled by the
brightness of a totally unexpected prospect of
social advantages. The question has been argued
too often for me to attempt to take up one side or
the other. My reader must form what conclusion
he or she is able, by looking at the plain facts of
the case in what light they appear to him or
her.

It is an indisputable point that until he chose
to favour the little fancy-rider with his attentions,
the young German had been somewhat disdainful
in his relations with any of the fairer sex. What,
then, could have been his reason for a change in
his habits'? It might certainly have been the
sympathy which a stranger in a foreign land unconsciously
feels in one of his fellow-countrymen,
but then his conduct on their first meeting
certainly goes against him.

Even allowing for the excuses which Lisette
herself made for him on that occasion, had not
Jerry more than one proof that the intercourse
was something more than a mere friendship

founded on the sympathy of having the same land
as a birthplace ?

To tell the truth, I do not believe this consideration
had any weight with the young German. Tome
his view of the case must either have been
pure love, such as any one who came in daily
contact with Lisette might have easily entertained,
or else a more worldly sense of the advantages
she had over the rest of the company : how useful
she would be supposing he (the ring-master) was
ever able to scrape up enough money  he was by
no means an extravagant fellow  to start a show
on his own account, which, by dint of great perseverance,
he should raise to a point of far greater
celebrity than that of Charles Petman himself.

Nowadays, when old-fashioned chivalry is quite
an exploded idea, no one can blame a man for
looking to his interests, even in the circumstances
of his marriage  it is far better in some people's
opinion to live contentedly than blissfully  but I
for one rebel against the idea of any one placing
my heroine's social worth against the love which
she above many others was calculated to inspire.

To tell the truth, I don't believe Carl Hermann
ever entertained such ambitious ideas of bettering
himself, as the saying goes. He was quite content
to live and let live, so long as he did not have to
exert himself too much. His was just one of those
natures which drift along with the current Without
any effort, but will often float into a safe harbour,
that others have striven for in vain.

It is as likely as not that even while submitting

to be led away by the charm of sweet little-lisette's
manner, he would shake his head and
say to himself that he was a fool, only the next
moment to give way to the impulse which led him
to hold out such hopes to the only too happy girl
as would set her heart beating with wild delight
for the happy future which was opening out before
her.

What was to be the end of it all may or may
not have concerned him. It is as Hkely as not
that by-and-by his natural indolence might have
been conquered by Lisette, and they would have
been married, whether happily or not it is impossible
to say ; more likely than not, with such a wife
for a guiding star of his existence  for women are
but better angels clad in a mortal dress lest our
poor consciences should take fright at their purity
in contrast to our own darker hue  but all the
same, time had gone on and that sacred promise
which was to be the first link in the chain which
was to bind them together had never been uttered.

Of course there had been hints, and vague surmises,
and such like dimly-expressed dreams in
which all lovers are prone to indulge ; but what
else had Lisette to show of what had been her one
thought for so long'? A few dead flowers and one
or two hastily-written notes  that was all, unless
one throws into the scale bitter memories of what
was and still more bitter ones of what have been.

It is, perhaps my reader Avill say, only the fate
which more than one too confiding nature has
been the victim of ; but I ask in return, does that

make it any the less hard for my heroine to
bear?

It was, then, hard for her? Yes, very hard ;
the struggle such as only those who have gone
through it can tell.

The sky had been so very bright once in those
-days gone by, when in the depth of her foolish
little heart Lisette had said, " Carl loves me, he is
my Carl. He calls me mine geliehte my beloved,
my little one, my all in all," and ever so many
pretty, endearing names, to say nothing of the
many kisses he snatched from the soft cheeks which
(Heeded no touch of rouge to heighten their rosiness.
That was what had once been; what is that?
She is nothing to him now ; she may not even think
too much of what might have been, for he is her
lover no longer, but the husband of the proud
manager's daughter ; may not say to him of the
sorrow which is in her heart, for he will not care to
hear ; who knows but that perhaps he may laugh
at her, perhaps even now he has done so with his
beautiful wife because she, poor, insignificant little
Lisette, does not quite know how to speak the hard
English. Laugh? Yes, laugh at her ; and at the
thought the hot blood burnt in the pale cheeks
for a moment, then died away, leaving them pale
.and colourless as before. Yes, he might laugh.
Then again came the old thought, 'rand I loved
.him so," uttered, oh so wearily, while the aching-head
was pillowed on two cold hands. '* Oh, if
I could only go away, right away where no one
knew, where no one smiled kindly at me, but fond

to joke when they thought I could not hear ; they
heard what he" (Mr Petman) " said on that night "
(there is no need to say what she meant), and
again the fiery flush rose, and the breast beneath
the sober black dress rose and fell with a wave of
passionate wildness which daily became more violent.
" Do they say with him I brought it to myself?
 I flung myself to him?  I was a silly  fool?
Was not he the first to pay the court, not I ? but
yet  I loved him so, I may not have known what
came. But I cannot have been unlike other girls ;
I used to say to myself, Lisette, Lisette, you are
silly, he cares not so much for you as if you were
his little finger, and I used to say he Avill not come
and walk aud talk with you to-night, nor bring
the flowers, or say pretty things and call you
darling ' like he did last night, he was in play
then, he has tired of the fun, you are silly Lisette,.
he will not come to-night ; that is what I said, but
I would watch for him, I would tell he was near
because my heart went, I knew not why, pit-pat,,
so fast  so fast  so that when he came I had no
words to say him ' good-day,' but when he did not
come I felt as though all the lights were gone out,
the music was not sweet, but loud, it deafened me,
and I would long to run away and hide myself.
Yes, I loved him so much and more, more than
any one in the world, and now he is her husband;
they say he is happy, he will be rich and she is
beautiful, and I must meet them face to face each
day, and he is nothing to me, he does not love
me, he never did, they say, or he would not have

done as he has done, it was only acting to please
me, men often do it for fun, but it is fun I cannot
feel to laugh at, it was cruel, because he might
have seen it, how I loved him, oh, so much. I
have no one else in all the world."

Such was poor little Lisette's cry, perhaps only
the echo of many such as she who have been be-tricked
and fooled by their too great faith, but
nevertheless, none the less full of bitterness because
of that reason.

For not only was there that dreariness which
naturally succeeds such a blow, but there was also
that sense of loneliness and utter friendliness which
was doubly strong in her case, both because of the
way her whole life had been bound up in her lover's,
and because in reality she was alone and friendless.
" How could I help loving him % I had no
no one else in all the world."

If only Jerry in his wiseacre mood could have
heard that despairing cry !

But he did not. He shut himself up in his prison,
as he called it, waiting with as much patience ashe
could scrape together till he should be once
more free and able to begin the task he had set
himself of being Lisette's friend.

As regards the length of time he was to occupy
this position, he did not stay to ask himself, lie
only knew that the little German girl wanted a
friend and protector, and that was what he was
going to be, to the exclusion of all other thoughts,
which had once filled him with such expectation
and delight.

But Lisette, as I have said, did not know this.
So the days passed slowly away for both, one longing
for comfort, the other only too willing to give
it, but both kept apart by the tide of circumstance
on one side, and by matter-of-fact reasoning on
the other.

Jerry had hoped that without his adopting a
course which was rather out of his new plans,
namely, that of sending Avoid to Lisette that he
would have liked to have seen her before she
started  what was he to say to her when she
came, since his was to be a silent brotherly friendship,
without protestation of any sort?  Lisette
would pay him a visit during the day, but his
hopes were doomed to disappointment.

As it happened, Smith, having no suspicion
that anything was materially wrong with the
young clown, did not of course think of going
to see him ; indeed, even had he wanted to do soit
is doubtful whether he would have been able
to carry out his intention, since he was so very
actively engaged every moment of the day in the
necessary preparations for the departure on the
morrow.

After what had occurred, too, the rest of the
company fought rather shy of our hero. It might
have been that they had a selfish motive for so
doing, opining that it would not be in their own
interests to make too great a show of cordiality
towards the clown, who had openly dared to
exhibit such signs of hostility towards their
worthy manager.

At any rate, it was not until the next day, at
the time of performance, that it was known that
Jerry was doomed to a second term of imprisonment,
when of course there were too many miles
between him and his comrades for a repetition of
any visits of consolation.

I am not sure that his absence was not rather
a relief than otherwise to all parties concerned.
It was easy enough to overlook the presence of
one who was only too willing to be allowed to
pass in and out to her duties unnoticed ; but
Jerry's presence would have no doubt been the
cause of no little dissension prompted by his
manner and bearing towards the manager.

Lisette heard the news too, but she only sighed
again, not because she was so very full of grief
at the news, but because she was fast getting into
the habit of sighing. The fact itself was but one
more drop in the cup of bitterness, a very small
one in the overwhelming flow which had filled it
to the brim. Thus it was that Lisette was left
to fight her battle all alone, to meet her trouble
face to face, day by day, without any one to fight
her battles, or to make an open stand in her
defence, because of the fear in which the mighty
Charles Petman was held.

It is true that, great favourite as she was,
nearly every one was ready to do her any service
which might not have caused any prejudice against
themselves, but this Lisette either was too proud
or to careless to allow.

At least so it appeared ; for myself I doubt if

she bad any idea of making plans for what was to
come. She seemed to those who knew her best to
be perfectly content, since it was willed  in spite
of her many prayers, that she should not die 
to live in the present, striving to forget the past
and taking no thoughts for the future.

How many hearts have sought to do the same,
and how few have succeeded ? To persevere in
such a course to the end is not possible. Strive
as we will, we must help nature in some way ; if
we live we must do so in a double sense. Neither
of the three sisters can subsist alone. " Is " cannot
suffice for us for ever, " Was " and " Will be "
must be there also or there will be an end to
all.

Lisette in her loneliness and sorrow tried hard
to hold out against time, the great doctor of all
ills. There are some of us who, when we have
been deeply wounded, would rather be left alone
to die than go through all the agony of healing,
rather than find out then how sharp the blow
has been that struck us down ; rather than fight
the fight back to life, for which we seem neither
to have the power nor the interest.

So was it with Lisette. So sorely stricken had
she been for one so young and guileless, that
even the greatest scoffer at broken hearts could
not have looked at the change in her from what
she had once been, and not feel pity for one whose
sufferings were so legibly written on her features.

No longer the same light-hearted fairy, whose
light-heartedness had earned for her the name of

the pride of the show, but white-faced with a drooping
figure and slow, lagging tread she went about
her duty, always up to time, never failing in her
work, but always coming in and out like a shadow
shrinking more and more into herself if, as happened
more often than not, she came in contact with
either Carl Hermann or his wife, the latter having
taken it into her aristocratic head that she would
travel a short time with her father's company.

It may be a marvel to some of my readers why
this young lady should have chosen so unimportant
a personage as the young ring-master for
her husband when, according to her father's
account, she could have selected a far more distinguished
suitor from a crowd of others.

There are two sides to this question. Firstly,
it is a matter of question whether this favourite
boast of Mr Pet man's was of any more value than
many others in which he indulged. Secondly,,
taking for granted that the boast had some
foundation, the affair may be explained thus  a
view which I think after circumstances tended
to confirm. On arriving at her father's show, of
which she was to form one of the staple attractions
if, as we suppose, she had been used to the court
and homage of an acknowledged set of admirers,
it was but natural that she should miss the many
little attentions to which she had been accustomed.
The members of her father's company, though,
of course, careful not to be wanting in ordinary
civility, or rather the civility to which her position
in the show gave her a right, were hardly enough

devoted to their leader to entertain any very
cordial feelings for one who, beyond being his
relation, inherited many of the least agreeable
traits in his character.

Even had they done so, I doubt if their homage
would have been at all favourably received by the
proud beauty. Yet she was not willing to take
her seat upon too high a throne. There was one
who on a recent visit to her father had impressed
her somewhat favourably, and in lieu of some
higher aspirant for the honour, she felt inclined to
bestow her favour upon the one man she deemed
worthy of it, the young ring-master. To her surprise,
and no little annoyance, that gentleman
.showed no anxiety to occupy the coveted post of
her cavalier, which fact in itself was sufficient to
arouse her pique, which increased Avhen by-and-by
she discovered the reason of his reluctance,
namely, in the shape of a prior hold upon his
attention. Knowing how little of the true material
he possessed  I can hardly say affection 
any one who, from what I have already said, has
gleaned any insight into her character, will not be
.-surprised at the course she adopted.

How the affair passed from jest to earnest until
the all-important step of a secret marriage was
accomplished it is impossible to say, unless taking
into consideration the fascination which the young
XjJerman exercised over his little countrywoman,
we can imagine that by the same means he
managed to sweep away the scruples and worldly
views which had been carefully instilled into Rosa

Petman's mind bj her father. At any rate, both
seemed for the time vastly satisfied with their
bargain, were most lover-like in their attentions,
although a quick reader of character might have
been suspicious of the change in the ring-master's
manner, from indolence and indifference to a ready
flow of spirits and a devotion towards his wife
quite at variance with his usual habits, and in the
regal way in which the manager's daughter received
his homage, alternately petting and scolding
him like one would a pet poodle.

A MOMENT OF REMEMBRANCE.

Of Mr Petman's conduct during the weeks of
Jerry's imprisonment I have not such a favourable
report to give.

As I have said, the thrashing which he had so
nearly received at the young clown's hands only
cowed him for the moment, without leaving any
beneficial results.

On the contrary, more especially because her
brave protector was not by her side, he used every
means in his power to pay off the debt of the
insult which Jerry had dared to offer him, upon
the head of one whom manliness, if not pity, should
have bidden him pass at least unmolested.

Coward that he was, he used no open means to
torment his victim, but let his odious power be
felt in a thousand little ways, which, like the prick
of so many needles, inflicted far more pain than a
blow with the keenest-edged sword.

Before " the row," as it was not too elegantly
but certainly expressively called, on the show's

last night at the People's Gardens, as we know,
he had been wont to k:)ok upon the little fancy-rider
with favour than otherwise, considering her
the smartest rider in the show, and congratulating
himself on the good fortune which had led to his
picking up such a very desirable acquisition to his
company.

Now, however, all was changed. Lisette had
suddenly slipped from the high position she had
held, and fallen, as it seemed, very low indeed.

As we know, she never failed in her duty, irksome
as it had now become, unless it was that the
gaiety and light-heartedness which had hitherto
characterised her performance, adding alike to its
grace and charm, were no longer there. More by
force of habit than from any real pleasure at the
signs of approbation which were bestowed upon
her performance, she responded to the applause
which she always earned. Her dress was as neat
and as pretty as usual, and if now an unnatural
colour burnt in the once rosy cheeks, and one or
two other touches of art borrowed from Madame
Petite were now discernible upon the pretty face
which so lately had required no touch save
Nature's to make it all that one would wish to
look upon, it was not that Lisette wished to
make herself pleasing in the eyes of men  nay,
indeed, what did she care now?  but rather
that cold inquisitive glances, such as she dreaded,
might not read in her face the truth she strove
to hide.

For Lisette, after that first night, when she had

learnt her fate, did try to brave it out. What
little feeling she had left in her was pride, and
night after night she tried to be brave and make
an outward show of what she did not feel.

But the task was a hard one, doubly so because
of the high and relentless power against which
she had to contend. At first she hoped that intime
the utter silence with which she accepted
covert sneers, jeers, hints, fault-finding, and every
form of persecution such as only a nature like the
manager's would have dictated, would gain her
peace. But such was not the case.

His vigilance increased rather than decreased.
It might have been that there was a double reason
for this, as certainly after circumstances
tended to prove.

Truth to tell, the season of prosperity at the
Gardens, during which time the manager had
rather given himself up to a period of enjoyment
such as he rarely allowed himself to indulge in,
was succeeded by an equally prolonged run of
ill luck.

Business, in fact, was very bad everywhere, and
fearful of losing the ground he had gained, Mr
Petman lashed up his team to a great speedy
trying place after place, and in fact exerting himself
to the very utmost.

But all to no purpose, or to very little. Business,
instead of improving, got rather worse, and
as a natural, or rather a to-unexpected consequence,
the manager's temper did the same.
Hitherto, as we know, life with the show had

been none too sweet, but under the foregoing
circumstances it was fast becoming unbearable.

To none more so than the poor little fancy-rider.


Poor Httle Lisette, when afterwards she looked
back at those days, she marvelled how it was she
had lived through them as she did.

Ah, they were dreary days indeed  when she
would sit for hours alone in her dreary lodging in
some back street, weary, oh, so weary of the big,
big world, of the long endless hours, loving to be
alone with no company save her thoughts  and
Heaven knows they were none too pleasant 
dreading when the time should come to go from
the silent solitude of the darkened room out into
the noise and bustle and glare of the streets,
where, now that the weather had finally broken
up, the summer quite gone, more often than not
it was to face frost, blinding rain, and biting wind,
to say nothing of the not too inviting state of the
roads ; and then an even more trying ordeal,
Avhen the sober every-day dress  Lisette's pretty
costumes had been laid aside, she scarce knowing
why, donning once more the dingy little frocks
which she had so lately laid aside  was exchanged
for the fairy robes with their lace and spangles,
the pallid cheeks and dark Hdcs hidden under the
rouge and powder, and then out into the anteroom
to wait in the cold, amidst not too polite
fellows, whose tempers were, like that of their
head, by no means improved by the weather, to
meet as a stranger, at least to all appearances, the
VOL. II.

man who once had been the first to wait upon her
presence and deplore her absence, to see him
heaping his attentions on his wife, a slave to her
caprice, submitting even to be bullied and trampled
upon by his father-in-law, above all to be the butt
of a spite which was malicious enough to be perfectly
inhuman.

Could only that brave heart, undergoing equally
unwillingly a like imprisonment, have known how,
dreary as he had drawn the picture of Lisette's
life, his colours Avere many times too bright !
Could only he have known how much the forlorn
little German girl was in need of a friend, he
would have risked the pair of crutches which the
doctor suspended over his head, like two copies of
the sword of Damocles  if I may be permitted to
make the comparison  risked ! Jerry would have
risked everything he possessed, his very life, to
have gone to her aid.

But he did not know, he only lived out the long-days
alone, and trying hard to be patient till he
should be free once more.

For Lisette there was no patience. Through
her trial, bitter as it was, her submission was not
that of one who willingly bends her neck to the
yoke, but rather that of one who has no power to
resist the fury of the storm, the bowing of a
broken reed, not of a bent one, wanting but a
few more blasts to carry away the poor fragile
body which had struggled so long. *' Is it going
to be like this always?" she asked herself one
night about two months after the last night at

the Gardens, when cold, tired, and miserable she
sat alone as usual in her small room, sitting'
thinking, thinking, thinking as she was always
doing lately, with her head in her hands, a
strangely weary attitude, which she had been
wont to assume, because it was the only way
in which she could find rest for her head, a
head which was rarely now without a strange
aching pain, which seemed to numb every faculty
and make her feverish and dispirited. " Is it
always going to be like this? Because 1 loved
him so once, must I be so miserable, so very unhappy
now % Shall I never be happy again ? It
is wicked to love, that one should be punished so
hardly. It is not my fault, but it seems as though
it is I who have done wrong, so strange are they
with me now, as though I had need to be ashamed,
and not he."

And so indeed it was. As is more often than
not, the innocent was made to suffer for the guilty.
A stranger noting the little German girl's relations
with her companions, might truly have imagined
that she it was who had offended, not the free
and easy-going young ring-master, sunning himself
in the light of his wife's glory.

'* And then Mr Petman," went on Lisette, going-over
once again a train of thought which was forever
flowing through her mind,  "Mr Petman,
what have I done that he should treat me so i
Is it because he (Carl) did not care to look at me
when Miss Rosa came? How can I help it? How
could I try to win him back if he had no Lavish t(>

come? But he did not see fit to be to me what
lie said, and why should they taunt me with it
now? Nothing I seem to do is right, no matter
how much I try. Surely it cannot be that I am
so very changed. This pain in my head ; oh, how
I wish it would go, but it will not, night and day
it is always there ; can it be something that will
by-and-by become too great for me to bear, and
drive me what they call ' silly ' ? "

And awed by the thought which, often comes tous
when we are the victim of great mental anguish,.
Lisette began to make vague comparisons between
herself and her devoted servant, the half-witted
groom, seeing herself grow less and less what she
used to be, losing all power to move or even think
for herself, a poor deranged creature to be pitied
by some, the butt and laughing-stock of others.
The thought may seem a wild one to my reader,
reading the plain sober facts of the case as they
appear in black and white ; but who will not forgive
their existence when one calls to mind this
poor little stranger in our land, living a life of
rough, hard work, fighting the battle of life when
she knew so little even how to buckle on her
armour, perfectly friendless and unprotected, little
more than a child in Avays, if passing into womanhood
in years, and smarting under the bitterest
blow a trusting, faithful heart ever endured.

On the night of which I write, Lisette did not
long give way to such ideas, for the striking of a
church clock somewhere in the neighbourhood
warned her that it was time she set off for the

:slow, situated in one of the most crowded parts
of the town, where a big but somewhat rough
audience might be expected.

Once upon a time Lisette would have not feared
risking the manager's displeasure by being a few
minutes behind time, though her real fault had
invariably been that she erred on the right side of
punctuality, but now, though she had in reality
plenty of time, she started up from her low seat
beside a smouldering pretence of a fire, with a
nervous haste donned her walking things, and
prepared to set off.

It was a pouring wet, miserable night, with a
sharp cutting wind blowing, just such a night as
that on which we first made my heroine's acquaintance,
and certainly not one calculated to revive
drooping spirits, or invigorate a weary frame.

So Lisette felt, but endued with the idea that
she might be late at the show, and so run the risk
of giving the manager a legal right to vent his
spite, she struggled bravely on through the surging
crowd of dripping figures and interlaced umbrellas,
looking forward even to the time when she should
-be once more on her way home, for then her hard
task, for that day at least, would be over.

How she dreaded it all, feeling to-day more
spiritless and weary than ever ; and how was she
to face, as she had done so many times before, her
arch enemy and tormentor, Mr Petman?

Night after night she had borne his persecution
because she had no power to resist. If only, like
ether girls, she could have Avert out her troubles

in tears, how much better it would have been for
her. It would have relieved that aching void in
her heart, and lessened the dull, almost blinding
pain in her head.

This, to-night as she battled her way through
the crowd, seemed almost more than she could
bear, and presently losing all consciousness of
where she was going, her feet carried her wheresoever
they would, while the rain poured down on
her scantily-protected head  she had long since
ceased to try and hold up an umbrella  and the
wind drove fiercely in her face, all cold and
unpitying. It was the icy rain soaking through
her clothes that roused her to herself.

By a great effort she was able to collect her
thoughts. Once more the sound of a clock striking
recalled her to a sense of where she was and
where she ought to be.

In her excitement she had not noticed which
way she had come, and now found herself in that
part of the town totally unknown to her, and with
very little time before she ought to have been
going through her performance in the ring.

Fearing she would be late, with the knowledge
of the storm of wrath which would be poured upon
her head by the manager, she turned, and once
more set out upon her journey. Would this never
end? Was she never to reach her destination f
Truly it seemed so. Inquiry after inquiry she
made as to the direction she should take, often in
her haste and nervousness mistaking what was
said to her, and having to retrace her steps. Up

and down the streets she hurried, a shadow in a
world of shadows, until at last she saw the huge
circus tent before her.

With a heart beating so loudly it seemed to
deafen her, she made her way round to the hastily-erected
shed, in which the bedraggled, dingy grub
was' to transform herself into the smiling, dancing
little fairy.

Was she in time, she wondered? Her fears
were soon proved to be well grounded, for her
first performance on the Turk was, she knew,
placed early in the first part of the programme,
and as she hurried to the dressing-room the crowd
which commenced to surge out of the tent, in the
direction of the nearest public-house, told her that
it was the interval. Sick at heart for what was
to come, she pushed her way through the crowd
to her destination.

It never occurred to her that perhaps it would
have been better for her to have absented herself
altogether till the morrow on a plea of illness, for
the anger which she was sure to have provoked
might have then somewhat cooled.

But this idea never entered Lisette's head, so
dazed and confused was she by what had occurred
during her endless walk ; added to this her clothes
were soaking wet through  she had put down
her umbrella in order that she might make more
haste  while the dull, aching pain in her head
had increased a thousandfold, making it impossible
even for her to think.

In the dressing-room, she found Madame Trellis,

the dog-trainer, and Madame Fourteenstone. The
former was too engrossed in her toilet to do much
more than shrug her shoulders, and give forth a
few disjointed sentences expressive of pity ; but
the latter, who had all along been only too willing
to participate in the general crusade against one
whom she considered her rival, favoured Lisette
with glowing descriptions of the frame of mind in
Which the manager already was, the greeting she
(Lisette) might expect, together with various
hints, and scarcely veiled sneers about the past,
and the way some people bore their troubles.

Lisette was used to such treatment, and received
it as she always did, in utter silence,
broken only by a sigh of weariness, which deepened
into a convulsive shiver, as she exchanged
lier wet dress for the gay robes of the Fay of
Fire. For Bonfire's performance came early in the
second part of the programme.

As a rule she was a quick, neat dresser, but
to-night nothing seemed to go right. Her cold
fingers every now and then refused to do their
office, and more than once she had to pause in
her work and lean against the dressing-table for
support.

She had grown used to the change in the face
which now met her gaze in the small looking-glass,
but to-night it struck her so strangely that she
spent more time than usual in hiding the ill effects
of her walk and agitation beneath such covering as
art could lend her. This done, she drew her cloak
round her and made her way into the ante-room.

Here she found Mr and Mrs Carl Hermann, as
usual indulging in very lover-like behaviour,
considering the time they had been married ; Mr
Petman, no doubt on the watch, and some of the
grooms, amongst them Smith, who had spent most
of his time during the performance in staring
vacantly at any point at which Lisette might be
expected to appear, being repeatedly called to
order by his master, each time with increasing
vigour and force.

The fancy-rider's appearance was greeted by a
sudden cessation of all conversation ; every one
Awaited for what was to come next.

This they had not long to do ; Mr Petman
walked across to where his victim stood, and once
again she was made to feel the weight of the rod
which he had power to wield; as before she
stood mute, for there was no one now to defend
her.

The people were so used to such scenes that
after the first few moments they returned to their
various affairs, and only Smith paid any particular
attention to the manager's parting shot, which
was his informing Miss Hartzmann that in future
her services would not be required  this with an
air of malicious triumph which he imagined was
dignified.

At this juncture Smith so far forgot himself as
to groan aloud, to hide which expression of feeling
he took to polishing up the Turk's harness
with such vigour that he managed to damage it
dn some way.

Perhaps seeking by this a new channel to torment
the little fancy-rider, Mr Petman turned
from her to the groom, and in a voice of thunder
informed him that the Avhole of his Aveek's salary
would be forfeited to pay for the repair, which,,
small as was the screw, was double the amount
of what the cost would really be.

What the act of injustice meant to him, living
as he did strictly from hand to mouth, seemed
to perfectly paralyze the poor fellow. He stood
looking at his master without daring to say a
word, his own scarred countenance and dull grey
eyes a striking contrast to the unusually, loue
might almost say dangerously, crimson one; but
when that gentleman, perspiring visibly, and panting
in a way which might have alarmed a close
observer, at length moved away to find a new
channel for his wrath, he (Smith) stole like a dog
to Lisette's side, and there they stood like two
culprits, instead of two unfortunates, the victims
of a fate which seemed determined to go against
them.

A few minutes later, however, the groom was
summoned to his duty, namely, to attend the
lady-rider's performance, and one by one the rest
of the company dispersed, till Lisette found herself
alone in the ante-room. She was sitting on
a box in the farthest corner, leaning her head
wearily against one of the supports of the tent,,
lier eyes closed, the pain in her head increasing
every moment with the long shivers which she
could not control, when suddenly, before she was

aware any one had entered, a hand was laid
on her arm, and a voice said in her ear,.
Lisette ! "

There was no need for her to pause and ask
herself who it was spoke. It was a voice she
would never forget. It was the voice of her
false lover, uttering her name softly, as he had
been wont to do long ago, and as starting up
she opened her eyes, it was to meet Carl Hermann's
grey eyes looking down into her own.

Lisette," he said, in the low, pleading tone
she knew so well  for how often it had whispered
words into her ear which had set her heart beating
with glad delight  speaking once again in
the soft accents of the mother tongue, which had
been the first tie to bind them together  "lisette,
may I speak to you ? I have wanted to do
so so long, but I have not dared. Let me tell
you how it was; I will explain  I  are you ill,
Lisette?"

For with a sudden cry the girl had staggered
back against the side of the tent, covering her
face with her hands. This was the first time
since she had known of his marriage that so much
as a word had passed between her and the ring-master.
True, she could not avoid hearing his
voice at all times while she was at the show, but
never before had he willingly addressed her, least
of all in the dear old language of the fatherland.
What was his reason for doing so now I canunt
say. Hitherto he had not deigned or dared to
offer any explanation, even if he had had any to

-offer, and it was hard to tell whether he spoke
now from good or evil motives.

It might have been that he had had some slight
disagreement with his handsome wife, and wished
to show her that he was not always going to remain
as hitherto he had done, tied to her apron-strings,
and thinking that no doubt even a few
crumbs from his hand would be welcomed by the
little fancy-rider, he had been tempted to offer
them.

Or it might have been, and perhaps it is more
charitable to give him the benefit of the doubt  it
might have been that a feeling of remorse had at
length been roused within him for what he had
done, together with a sense of pity for the unmistakable
look of suffering on the girl's whiteface
had prompted him to try and make some
little reparation for the part he had played.

But Lisette did not wait to analyse motives,
she only knew that it was his touch on her arm,
his voice speaking to her, and calling her by her
name, his face, which had smiled at her while his
heart had been false  his face looking down into
hers, perhaps glorying in the tale it told so
plainly.

Only a moment she was held spell-bound, then
s if she had been stung, she flung aside the hand
which rested on her arm, and drew herself erect,
with the warm blood scorching her cheeks and
coursing in her veins like fire.

Nein vein" she said, spreading out her hands
before her ; " come not near me ; do not touch

me ; go to  to your wife ; do not touch or speak
to me ! "

And gathering her cloak round her as though
there were contamination in his touch, she sprang
by him, and out of the doorway, and on into the
outside tent, where the grooms Avere busy with
the horses, for on the morrow the show was to
take its departure to a town some miles distant.

Controlling herself as best she could, Lisette
stood quietly by, apparently watching them at
their work, they glancing curiously at her from
time to time, until, after expending far more
energy than was usual over rubbing down the
Signer's pet steed, Amazon, Birket blurted out
something about being sorry for what had occurred,
and now that some one had started, more
regrets were loudly expressed that the little
German girl should have received her conger instable
language " got the sack." Rather absently
Lisette thanked them for their kindness, and a
moment later followed Bonfire into the ring, and
began her performance.

Nothing occurred to spoil this, for the ring-master,
no doubt interpreting aright the rebuff he
had received, kept in the background, at the door
of the ante-room, talking to his Avise and father-in-law.


It so happened, however, that when the fire-gates
were brought, some little delay occurred,
and the manager called loudly to the young
German to look after the men; not daring to
disobey, Carl hastily sprang into the ring and

moved one of the hurdles into its proper position,
then signed to one of the men to take his place to
support it. The man either would not or did not
see the motion, the band struck up, and Bonfire
was making his preparatory tour of the ring.
There was nothing for Carl to do but to remain
where he was.

Twice round the circle and Lisette, who took
the leaps standing, sprang to her feet on the
horse's back. The flaming hurdles are pushed
into their places, she kisses her hands on either
side, in answer to the applause, gives that shrill
little cry which is so well understood by all well-behaved
circus horses, and to which Bonfire
obediently responds. The first hurdle is taken in
safety, Lisette sets the horse quickly at the remaining
one. As she does so, she glances down
for the first time, sees amidst the flames of the
burning gate a face which is the one of all others
she dare not look upon, she feels once again a
shiver seize her from head to foot, and knows
nothing more except that she is falling, falling-down
she knows not where.

In the circus tent there is screaming and a wild
rush forward, both by people in the ring and those
who are nearest it.

Many willing hands are stretched out to help,
many horror-stricken faces peer down at a sickening
sight, a few moments of wild confusion, then
a limping, panting horse is led out of the ring, its
gay trappings, glossy coat, and silky mane rough
and torn and singed ; behind it, quickly as they

o

dare, with white faces and trembling hands, the
grooms pass out of sight with something, an indescribable
motionless something, on a hurdle
covered over with a banner, whose gay colours
and spangles are stained with a dark crimson
stain, which had not disfigured them a few
moments before, when the fairy-like form of the
Fay of Fire bounded so airily over them.

The men, gently as they are able, carry their
strange burden, the like of which they had never
borne into the ring, out from the crowd ; the anteroom
curtains close behind them, and then everyone
in the vast audience begins to ask how it
happened, and to indulge in the wonder such an
incident is sure to give rise to, some of the men
wiping away the beads of perspiration from their
foreheads, more than one woman clinging with
fright to her protector.

It is not for long this confusion lasts, for the
ante-room curtains part, and ruddier, if possible,
than ever, and quite as smiling and self-possessed,
Mr Charles Petman begs his audience to be in
no way alarmed. The accident is by no means
as serious as it appeared ; the young lady is more
shaken than hurt, is, in fact, well enough to
return home, and a lot more assurances of the
same nature, which the frightened people are only
too glad to believe, never doubting that the
manager is speaking the truth. The end of it
all is that, save a few, perhaps, who do not place
quite so much credence in the statement of the
smiling manager, and who feel as if the fresh air

is preferable to the heat of the tent and the
remembrance of what has so lately happen ed
everyone in the tent returns to his seat, the ring
is once more reduced to order, the band strikes
up, the men once more take their places, if with
a trifle less laughing and joking than before 
grave shakes of the head and hurried whispers
instead  no one notices the fact, for all eyes are
bent on the lady-rider who, erect and handsome
in her velvet habit, displays to their admiring
gaze the perfect control she has over her beauties
ful roan.

Thus the late accident was forgotten, at least for
the time. Everything went on as before, save
that in a corner of the stable crouched a figure
who had escaped from the confusion like one
demented, to hide away in the darkness, to cry
and moan with terror ; and later on in the evening
a tall figure in a long light overcoat reeled
out of a low tavern near where the show was, and
walked with a slow, unsteady step down the
dreary street. Once he paused and looked up
into the window of a house in which a light was
burning, as though some one kept watch.

It wasn't my fault," he muttered half aloud
half to himself; "I couldn't help it. I feel it
quite as much as she does ; but Rosa's the best
spec."

With that he sighed heavily and reeled on.

And in that room where the light was burning
a weary soul tossed and turned in the wildness
and heat of fever, with ever one cry on the dry

white lips, " Oh, why does not some one come tome?
I am so lonely, so lonely."

But no answer came to the prayer. The only
heart in all the world which beat faithfully ia
answer to the cry was many miles away, and did
not know of all the pain and sadness which was
gathering round his little *' friend," to whom by-and-by
he was to be so much.

VOL. 11.

A GLOW-WORM.

It was about a month after the events recorded in
the last chapter that Jerry was for the second time
set free from his imprisonment. He had endured
this last term with tolerable patience, only regretting
one thing  that the while he was totally
without news of his little German friend. He told
himself he had been a fool not to find some excuse
under cover of which from time to time he might
have received news of how matters were going on
with her in whom he was so much concerned. He
could easily have been anxious, as was only natural,
to have been kept aware of the whereabouts of the
show, in case he should have wanted to join it at
a moment's notice ; but, as we know, it is not
always those who have the best intentions who act
the best, and because no doubt of his new resolutions
by which he most effectually tied his own
hands, the idea never entered his head, or, if it did,
he put it aside as a course of proceeding beyond the
pale of that on which he had determined.

For my part, I think, it would only have been in
accordance with his new part of Lisette's brother
that he should have adopted some method of
evincing his lively interest.

As it was, he only gave another proof of the
theory that excess of caution is quite as dangerous
as over-daring.

At length, however, as I have said, the clown
was once more free to return to his work, that was
providing Mr Petman would condescend to receive
him back into his old place. To an outsider this
might have appeared doubtful, but Jerry knew
that the manager would rather endure the not too
pleasant fact of his presence than run the risk of
losing money by any proceedings which Jerry
might take against him, if he pleased, for a breach
of contract, to say nothing of a nice little sum
which he might have had to pay in his daughter's
name for the inconvenience Day star's little fit of
temper had occasioned.

So Jerry reasoned, with how much justification
one can hardly say, and hailed with delight the
day which once more saw him at liberty to act as
well as to think, not only for himself but for his
newly-adopted sister.

He had learnt from Mr Petman that that gentleman
had an enQ'a2:ement at the bios market town
of Middleton about three months after the end of
that at the People's Gardens. Thither, therefore,
Jerry directed his steps on the day already mentioned,
after a prolonged leave-taking with his
landlady.

s

It was one of those fair, fine days in winter
when we are deluded into the belief that at length
the spring has come, and Jerry, perhaps with the
foolishness to which we are all prone at times,
looked upon it as a good omen, and, in consequence,
set off on his journey with a light heart,
leaving Mrs Parkins far less elated than he was
himself.

He reached Middleton somewhat late in the day
but that did not prevent him from at once seeking
the usual abiding-place of the show.

Whistling gaily, although he repeatedly assured
himself that there was no reason for him to feel
extra joyful, he made his way down the crowded
streets to where on inquiry he was informed " the
circus folk had been for the last week, and a nice
mess they were a-making of the green."

And sure enough, before he had gone very far
he saw before him the tents and other paraphernalia
appertaining to a show. I say advisedly a
show, because while he was yet a hundred yards
from the same, Jerry was suddenly endued with
the idea that there was something strange about
their appearance  strange  that is to say unfamiliar.


To his accustomed vision every car, waggon, and
canvas of the Petman show was only too well
known and, as I have said, those before him
hardly corresponded with those he had imprinted
on his mind's eye.

At first he thought that his long absence from
among them had caused his memory to play him

tricks, or his imagination to paint them different
to what they in reality were, but a nearer
inspection convinced him that such was not the
case.

His first impression was in fact a sound one 
the show before him was undoubtedly not that for
which he sought, for by the glare of many lamps,
emblazoned forth in gilt letters on a scarlet ground,
was the name of " Robert Milford."

Jerry read the two words over more than once
to make sure that his eyes did not deceive him,
knowing, as he did, that the name was that of the
man whom Charles Petman usually looked upon
with much indignation as his rival.

How came it, then, that he was here in that
gentleman's place, as to all appearances he undoubtedly
was ?

Jerry knew well enough that Mr Petman had
long before entered into a contract for the occupation
of the ground, and it was hardly likely that
he would have been induced to forego his plans,
since his last stopping at Middleton had been highly
successful.

After staring somewhat blankly at the show for
several minutes, and trying in vain to solve the
enigma, it occurred to Jerry that the best shingle
could do was to set about trying to find the
key.

This he at once determined to do, and was soon
making his way in the direction of the stables,
where he busied himself with making cautious
inquiries.

Every one, however, connected with the show 
it being during the evening performance  was so
busy that he could gain little or no information,
excepting that only the week before the order had
been given for the removal to Middleton, instead
of starting, as had been originally intended, in the
opposite direction.

To questions as to the reason for their being at
liberty to do so, or indeed any information respecting
the Petman show, he entirely failed to elicit any
satisfactory answer.

It was strange certainly  very strange. Jerry
was, as he phrased it, very much taken aback, and
not a little concerned. As we know, he was by
no means quick at unravelling mysteries, and this
one certainly " fogged " him.

By what he called, however, a happy thought, he
asked to see the manager, but was told that gentleman
was not in attendance ; the ring-master, next
in command, was a fresh arrival ; and so all hope
of gaining any information in that quarter was
vain. Jerry was fast feeling himself being reduced
to the last stages of despair and impatience, when
after much anxious inquiry he ascertained that
only about a month before the Petman show had
been heard of as being at Greyton, a busy town
some miles nearer London. With this clue he was
obliged to be content, and still turning oyer the'
troublesome riddle in his mind, he sought a lodging
for the night, feeling not a little disappointment at
the unexpected end to his plans for the day, which
had begun so auspiciously. On the morrow, however,

he had in a measure recovered his spirits by
the aid of the very sage reflection that no doubt
there was no mystery in the affair after all.

Very likely Mr Petman had allowed his claim to
the ground at Middleton to be bought off by his
rival ; perhaps having a better " spec." in view,
and believing " a bird in the hand is worth two in
the bush," laid his plans accordingly.

Comforting himself with this assurance Jerry set
off once more on his journey  this time to Grey ton
where after some trouble he managed to ascertain
from an ostler at one of the taverns that the show
had been in the town ; he (the ostler) remembered
it quite well, because his good woman had been to
see it and came home quite upset because there had
been an accident of some sort during the evening.

At the word " accident " Jerry started violently,
and asked three or four questions without waiting
for any answers. When, however, he did give the
old ostler time to speak, his reply completely reassured
him  not knowing that the shillings he
eagerly held out as payment for the information
made his informant so anxious to be obliffinor that
he drew somewhat on his imagination.

It won't much, if I remember rightly," he said,
bestowing the bribe with much care in his breeches
pocket. " They said as no one was hurt  only a
young chap  two or three of 'em brought him inhere
a bit later on. He seemed quite to have had
all the sense knocked out of him ; was trembling
like a leaf, and not even a pint of our half-and-half
'd fetch him round."

This mention of his favourite compound recalled
the man of horses to the fact that he had now the
wherewithal to indulge in his partiality, so muttering
something about " the master wanting him," he
disappeared into the house before Jerry could ask
any more questions.

The young clown's mind, however, was completely
set at rest by this suggestion : that it was
one of the male performers who had been concerned
in the accident, not recognising Smith by the ostler's
description, and therefore seeing nothing to cause
him any alarm in the affair.

It's Patchouli, of course ; I always said he'd get
a fit of the shakes one day, and he'd dismount
sooner than he mounted. I hope he didn't hurt
himself ; but there, the man said he came in here,
so I suppose it's all right. I should be sorry to see
Apollo come to grief ; he was very kind to my
little sister."

The thought of Lisette by this name caused
Jerry to put the ostler's words completely from his
mind, to give place to other ideas by which he was
trying to bury the past beneath the future.

In a few moments, however, he roused himself to
the fact of the present, and once more pursued his
inquiries relative to the show.

After a little trouble he was fortunate enough to
light upon the information that the show had, on
leaving the town, set off in the direction of a
neighbouring town  a journey by rail of about an
hour, which Jerry determined to take on the
morrow, knowing that as it was, of course, sometime

since the show's visit he was sure to have to
waste much time in making inquiries  in fact he
saw soon that he had the same task to perform that
he had often done before  namely, that of finding
the trail of the show he wished to join  no easy
piece of work  and following it up.

At any other time he would not so much have
minded the delay, but now, as he told himself,
although there was no reason for him to save as
carefully as he had done lately, his illness had
made rather a hole in his little store, which he had
meant for such a different purpose, and he felt he
would like to make up for lost time ; above all did
he feel that he should never be perfectly easy in
his own mind till he was assured of his little sister s
well-being, so far as he could be able to be so.

For this latter reason, then, particularly he set
about his task with more than his usual vigour,
and early on the morrow he was hurrying away
with all speed from Grey ton. Ah, had he only
known as, in the dim light of the morning, he determined
to make good head during the day  had
he only known as he passed out of his cheap
lodging on his way to the station, that in a dreary
house in one of the deserted streets down which he
walked with such steady tread that told of a fixed
purpose, a weary fevered soul was tossing to and
fro in the terrible unrest of pain ; for ever uttering
one cry, "I am so lonely  no one seems to care
now  oh, it is terrible to be lonely."

But this despairing cry could no more reach
Jerry's ears through the thick walls than when he

had been many miles away, and all unknowing-how
cruel fate was  bent on trying his patience
by driving him hither and thither  actually away
from the very object he sought  he went on his
way with a heart full of hope and without one
thought of any future trouble in his heart.

This latter was not strange, since to him, as to
many of us who think in some great sorrow that
we have fathomed all earthly bitterness, it seemed
that the darkest hour had come, the dawn could
not be very far off.

But how little do any of us know when the midnight
hour is to be reached. Perhaps it is better
for us that we should not, or else how many of us
would sink under our burdens, knowing there ia
yet another load to be added.

Thus it was that Jerry set out once more on his
journey, with a heart as light as it could be now
that he had planned out his own life, which plan,
because it had no mighty schemes for his future
elevation, but merely that calm, unselfish resolve
to accept quietly the denial of what he most
coveted, and to henceforth take the lowlier office
of brother to the only girl whom he had ever loved
because it was only a determination to do what
seemed to him his duty  one would hardly have
imagined could have needed any correction.

But then, who can ever account for the freaks of
fate  at least, while we are suffering from the stingo
some disappointed hope  although if, when the
trial is over, a few of us turned and compared the
two ways  the one we had made for ourselves, and

the one fate had chosen for us  how often should
we find which had the surest foundation.

Speaking literally, our hero had to tramp many
roads, running in all sorts of directions, before he
gained the object for which he sought.

Experience had taught him the quickest way to
follow up a trail when once upon it, and in this
case his movements were hastened rather than
otherwise, because of his double anxiety to be back
at his work.

Thus it happened that on the second day after
he had left Greyton many miles behind him, he
seemed at last to have reached the end of his
journey.

It was early one morning when he entered the
town of Stockton, having heard on the day previous
that it was thither the Petman show had
been known to have taken its flight only three
weeks before, which fact made Jerry feel that at
last he was near the object of his search.

This hope was rendered even more strong when
on quitting the railway station he saw not far
distant the well-known cars and other paraphernalia
of the show.

With an alacrity which startled several of his
fellow-passengers he made with great speed for the
said point of attraction. When, however, he came
as near to the said cars, etc., as iron bars would
permit, he stopped as suddenly short, as equally
disconcerting the passers-by, standing stock-still
on the pathway, staring blankly before him.
What he saw was not, after all, very startling, at

least, one would not have imagined so  merely a
large building which had evidently once been a
factory, brewery, or warehouse, but was now deserted,
in the large yard of which, piled up and
half hidden under ragged covers, was the paraphernalia
already spoken of, encircled by a high brick
wall, and barred from the intruder by a huge
iron gate.

A casual observer, on noting the expression
which came over the young clown's face as he
viewed the yard from where he stood, might have
imagined that on so close an inspection of the
wonders of the show so dear to every country
mind, he was filled with awe at what he saw.
Such was not, as we know, the case. On the
contrary, it was Jerry's familiarity with " the
wonders " that roused in him the amazement.

With a quick eye he noted that the roadway
into the yard was smooth and even  certainly unmarked
lately by heavy cart wheels  that the
thick coating of mud on the said wheels of the
cars within was hard and dry  that the coverings
over the same lay flat and clinging as though
they had not been disturbed for some time ; while,
far from there being in the yard any of the usual
hurry and bustle which Jerry had never before
known to be absent from the precincts of the slow,
no sign of life animated the yard, the large gilded
cars, tents, boarding, poles, piles of benches, and
other requisites were entirely alone in their glory,
bolted and barred in in solitary confinement.

What did it all mean ?

The question fairly took Jerry's breath away,
while one conclusion forced its way into his mind
namely, that for some unexplained reason the
journey kings of the show had been brought to an
abrupt conclusion. At any rate, there could be no
doubt that it was some time since it had taken up
its present station, as was proved by the signs
Jerry's quick eye had noted, and by the fact that
it had left the neighbouring town fully three weeks
before.

What had happened ?

Though quick enough to determine that, whatever
it was, it was something of importance to
have led to such a pass, Jerry did not so soon find
a key to the riddle so unexpectedly put to him.

This, then, was the reason for the Milford show
being in possession at Middleton.

After staring vacantly into the yard for some
moments, Jerry was roused by some irate passenger
pushing roughly against him to take a nearer view
of the same.

His inspection, as might have been expected
confirmed rather than disarmed his suspicion, an(.
certainly gave him no clue to reading them aright

Thoroughly "taken aback" once more, Jerry
retired very slowly and thoughtfully to the nearest
place of refreshment, where he endeavoured to
collect his thoughts over half-a-pitit of porter.

This done, he determined that the only thing todo
was to recommence his inquiries, which business
he at once set about, assured that he would not belong
in obtaining information this time, since the

presence of the show in the yard was sure to have
given rise to comment.

Thinking it best to o at once to the point, he
entered a small cobbler's shop exactly opposite the
disused brewery, or whatever it was.

Here he found an old man seated in the midst
of a pile of well-worn boots and shoes, one of
which he was mending with as much energy as
weak eyes and trembling hands would allow.

This queer specimen of humanity Jerry, without
wasting much time on preliminaries, proceeded to
question, and in a few moments had elected the
following facts.

As he had conjectured, it was three weeks since
the show had, amidst much excitement, taken up
its abode in the yard. Its arrival had been superintended
by several grooms, who used an extraordinary
amount of bad language, and a young
fellow, who, if his language was less forcibly expressed,
nevertheless made some impression by the
way he gave his orders.

From the description, Jerry had little difficulty
in recognising Carl Hermann, and was furthermore
convinced that something had happened to the
manager, which surmise proved correct.

In a roundabout way it was ascertained by
means of some remarks let fall by one of the hard-swearing
grooms, that at the last stopping-place
Mr Petman had been suddenly taken so dangerously
ill that all business had had to be stopped,
the show huddled away in the nearest available
space, and the company dispersed.

Although, as is always the case, even when our
anger has been just, Jerry did not quite like the
recollection that the last time he had stood before
the manager it had been with no gentle feeling in
his heart, the former part of the cobbler's information
did not fix his attention half so much as the
latter.

The company was dispersed, gone, he knew
not where, and Lisette of course amongst the
rest.

It was truly enough to have disheartened the
bravest soul, just when he imagined the end of his
journey near, to find he had yet farther to travel,
and this time without any clue at all.

In the fulness of his heart Jerry thanked the
chatty old cobbler for his kindness, besides giving
a more substantial proof of his gratitude by buying
up the old man's entire stock of boot laces, perhaps
with the dismal foreboding that he should need
them in his coming journeying.

This action, while gladdening the old man's heart
by the fact of his having, by the young clown's
generosity, done more trade in one day than for
many years he had done in a week, I am bound to
say did not completely assure him of his customer's
sanity, but it was eventually put down to the
reputed eccentricity of " circus folk."

Meanwhile our hero started once more on his
search, this time with quite as much, if not more
earnestness, if less hope, because he was full of
misgivings as to how his little sister had fared
since the breaking up of the show.

He did not, however, allow himself to waste
much time in idle fretting.

If only I find her, or know that she's well and
as happy as she can be after what's happened, that's
all I care. I'm not going to bother her by hanging
round, for I know she doesn't want me."

A LONG SEARCH.

I AM not going to attempt to give any description
of this second search. Jerry was no skilled detective,
and his blunders and silly mistakes were so
many that they would hardly be amusing.

His will was better than his deeds ; but does anyone
of my readers know what it is to be vainly
seeking" a clue in the dark ? This for six honos
was our hero's work, and but for the end he
had in view and the bravery of his honest trusting*
heart, he must surely have given up many times.

I do not pretend to say that anything half so
romantic as a presentiment of evil urged him to
action, he only knew that in spite of all his resolutions
to bear his lot patiently, this was a way in
which he had no choice but to act, and act he did,
but, alas ! with very little result.

Like a modern edition of the Wandering Jew, he
passed from town to town where he heard news of
any show at which Lisette might Have sought
employment, but always without any result. No

VOL. IL Q

such person had so much as presented herself to
any manager during the time Jerry named.

It seemed truly as if she had vanished as completely
off the face of the earth as though she had
indeed been the butterfly to which her existence
was likened.

Early in his search Jerry had decided to apply
to Mr Petman, by means of an agent in London ;
but all the reply he received to his letter was that
the manager was still too ill to have anything to do
with business, and the whereabouts of any of his
late company were unknown.

Two or three times our hero came very near
despairing, but was always saved by his determination
not to give up. He knew only too well
that the little German girl had not a friend in
the world besides himself. What, then, did it
matter if he wasted his time and savings in seeking
her ? If his trouble was unnecessary, and she
had meanwhile fallen amongst some stood Samaritans,
so much the better. It was after a more
than usually severe fit of depression that Jerry
became possessed of a sudden idea  namely, since
he could not discover a new trail to see if he could
find out anything from the old one.

With this idea he went over the ground which
the show had travelled in its last journey, picking
up what scraps of information he could, until indue
course he once more reached Greyton.

Here he spent a long, disappointing day, and
later in the evening, sick at heart, he determined
to take the first train to London, and see whether

fate would be more kind than circumstance. The
crowded city is a far more likely place of meeting
than one would imagine. Jerry, too, remembered
that George Epsom had declared his intention of
trying his luck in London as soon as his time was
up with Mr Petman, and it was very likely he
might, through Madame Petite, be able to give
some clue.

Delighted with this idea, vague as its foundation
may seem to any one who has not known what it
is to live on hope for many days, Jerry lost no
time in starting at once on his journey ; but, to
his great vexation, his intention carried him no
farther than the railway station, which he only
reached in time to see the last train to London
that day slowly, but none the less surely, vanishing
in the distance.

Again this is an example of our inconsistency
in deciding to abandon ourselves to the rule of
fate and yet rebelling at the first move which is
contrary to our own wishes.

Jerry's action in the matter was to indulge in
not a little ill-temper, to which he certainly considered
he had a right ; in fact, he gave himself
up entirely to a feeling of general annoyance.

Thinking, under the circumstances, that he was
not an agreeable companion for any man, he determined
to walk off his fit of the blues, and
straightway proceeded to put his resolution into
full force by striking out into the main road,
along which he determined to tramp until he felt
better, and then to turn his face homewards.

After walking for about two hours without his
frame of mind very much altering, he had almost
decided to give up the attempt, when his attention
was attracted by the sound of music somewhere
ahead.

A natural curiosity, and perhaps instinct, led
him to ascertain whence it came, and he was by
no means surprised when he found it to be from
a show situated on a green round a bend in the
road.

At first, such was his mood, he was half-a-mind
to pass the familiar sights and sounds, these for
once being anything but welcome to him. Even
love of his work had been forgotten in the heat
of his search ; but after a moment, actuated by
the impulse which urged him to leave no stone
unturned in his search, he strolled leisurely through
the crowd which was gathered round the entrance,
attracted behind rather than before the
scenes.

In a few minutes he found himself in what was
known as the stables, where, as usual, he pursued
his inquiries concerning the little fancy-rider, and
as usual without success.

Jerry was by this time used to this result
but on the day in question the failure was by
no means softened by the want of courtesy
with which he met. Perhaps he was not himself
so much inclined to be so cheery and jovial as
usual, but certain it was that the groom whom
he elected to question replied in anything but
an agreeable manner; indeed, Jerry came near

io being ordered off the premises in a very
peremptory manner.

What do you want a-hanging round here ? This
ain't no place for loafers. If you want to see the
show, why don't you pay yer money like a man and
go in front ? There isn't nothing to be made here,
so don't think it. And as for the girl as you're after,
you take my advice ; she " (with an ugly leer) " can
do without you, you bet. She's got another feller
by this time, and won't thank you for interfering."

Before Jerry could make any reply, such as the
hot blood which burnt in his honest cheek dictated,
the insolent fellow was called away to perform
some duty in the tent.

Still Jerry lingered, wondering whether it would
be advisable to loosen the tongues of the remaining
grooms by means of " drinks round." He was still
debating this question in his mind when the fellow
whom he had previously questioned reappeared
from the tent holding his right hand carefully, and
considerably paler in visage than he had been a
few minutes before.

I've been and done it," he said, grinning convulsively,
and staring fixedly at his hand ; " I've
done it this time."

It turned out, on further inquiry, that what he
had been and done was to skilfully insert his fingers
beneath the machinery by means of which some
scrap of an Italian woman few through the air,
which machinery had successfully crushed his
fino-hers in a nasty, if not a severe manner  if ever
the operation can be otherwise performed.

Every one was very ready with offers of help j:
but it so happened that just at that moment an
order came for all hands to remove the same apparatus,
and so the groom was told to wait a bit  an
order very easy to give but not so easy to obey.

So the owner of the crushed fingers seemed to
find it. He walked up and down, hugging the
same to him, with many grimaces, until Jerry was
induced to after his assistance.

This was at first refused ; but, after a bit, the
hand was somewhat sulkily held out, and Jerry was
allowed to bind up the bruised stumps as well ashe
was able.

This done, by the aid of a bucket and some rags
for bandages, he (Jerry) gave some parting advice
concerning future treatment, and was about to turn
away, in obedience to the advice he had himself
received, when he was detained by the touch of the
hand which he had just doctored.

Look here, guv'nor," said the owner of the
same, in a very gruff voice, according, however, to
Jerry, a title of superiority which told more than
his words,  " look here, guv'nor, you ain't half a
bad sort  anyhow, not what I took you for. I
ain't one to eat my words as a rule ; but," excusing,
" when a man's up to his eyes in work and
worries, with two of the hands doAvn with fever,
and no one to take their places, it ain't to be expected
that he'll find time to be strictly polite and
soft-tongued to every one as comes a-hanging round
and asking questions. Anyhow, you've done a job
for me. It's only fair I should see if I can help

you. What is it you're after, eh ? A girl, isn't it 
some relation of yours, sister or cousin, no doubt ? "
this with a view of atoning for his late insinuations
 " you want to find her ? Do I know anything
? Let's see her name. What ! Bateman 
Cartesian  "

Here Jerry supplied the correction, and gave a few
particulars. The groom, however, only scratched
his head with his uninjured hand and shook that
member slowly.

He'd heard of the split-up in the Petman concern.
About time  the old man had had his day ;
it was time he made room for others. But concerning
those who had lately formed his company,
he (the groom) could say nothing.

Jerry listened to the man's expressions of sympathy,
rough as they were, very quietly, and was
once more turning away when his attention was
attracted to a horse which was behoof led into the
stable to be relieved of its gorgeous trappings.
These consisted of the usual pad, covered by a
violet velvet curtain, elaborately worked in gold.

A casual observer might have been attracted toit
by the fact that it had once been a very splendid
affair, and even now had not quite lost all its
beauty ; but to Jerry it had attraction of another
kind.

At first sight it seemed familiar to him. He
stepped quickly forward, calling excitedly to the
groom to bring the horse to a standstill, and then
stood holding the velvet cover by one hand, and
staring vacantly at it.

He recovered himself in a minute, and asked
quickly to whom the cover belonged.

The answer was, " To Madame Zola, the greatest
equestrian female juggler in the world."

This attribute of the lady completely refuted a
suggestion that had risen in Jerry's mind, that
perhaps Madame Zola was Lisette under another
name ; but there was still the all-important question
to be answered : how then came the cloth out
of the owner's possession ?

Look here," said Jerry, turning to the owner
of the crushed fingers, " if you want to do me a
real service, you'll let me have a word with this
Madame what's-her-name ! "

This request, slight as it seemed, was not so
readily granted as one would have supposed ; and,
after a little, the cause of the deliberation came out
in the fact that Madame Zola was the wife of
Monsieur Zola.

At first Jerry was at a loss to see how her having
a husband could affect his wishing to have a
few words with the lady; but matters were soon
further explained by some significant gestures with
the arm and various nods and winks, by which he
was to understand that the said gentleman was the
personification of tyranny, and would be likely to
resent in a forcible manner any interference between
himself and spouse. No one would risk delivering
Jerry's message, in which he declared that he would
state his errand to Madame in the presence of the
dreaded Monsieur, until, touched perhaps by Jerry's
earnestness, the owner of the damaged fingers volunteered

to do the job, and, loudly applauded by his
brethren, he forthwith departed.

After a little time  which seemed to Jerry an
hour  he returned, hardly as calm as he went ;
declared he would rather have his whole hand
ground to powder than go through the ordeal of
facing Monsieur again, but announced triumphantly
that our hero could see Madame. Without
any more delay Jerry was, therefore, conducted to
the ante-room, where he found a big, but very mild-looking
woman with a very nervous air, mounted
guard over by a ferocious little Frenchman, a state
of affairs which reminded one for all the world of a
fiery little bull-dog bearding a very moth-eaten St
Bernard.

Whatever on earth had induced him to conceive
so much as a thought of jealousy concerning his
wife, who seemed, indeed  at least in private life 
the last person in the world to take the fancy of a
second man, remains for ever a companion riddle to
that of the immortal Sphinx.

The air with which he watched our hero's entry
was truly comical ; all the more so because of the
complete indifference of Madame, who had disposed
of her large figure as far away in the corner of the
tent as possible, and because of the excited earnestness
of Jerry.

The latter was completely oblivious of any suspicions
his visit miffht have excited, and went straight
to the point  this by a question. Where had
Madame got the violet velvet cover from which she
possessed ?

Before Madame was allowed to give any reply,.
Monsieur son niari required to be satisfied as to
the reason of its being asked, which explanation
was somewhat trying to all concerned, since neither
Jerry nor the fiery little Frenchman understood a
word of each other's mother-tongue ; and Madame's
acting interpreter was the cause of much suspicion
on the part of her jailer, who persisted in believing
that the whole affair was got up to secure for his
wife an interview with a former lover  Jerry.

After emphatically denying this assertion, Jerry
gave up the attempt in despair, and regardless of
consequences, devoted all his attention to the lady.
At first some suspicion seems to have been aroused
as to whether the said pad curtain, which had
only been lately purchased, was stolen property ;
but at length Jerry was informed that the said
article had been procured in Greyton, no later than
the previous day.

Of whom ? " was the next important question.

Of a friend of the landlady of the house where
Madame lodged.

Did Madame know how that friend had come
into possession of it ?

Yes, through a lodger of hers.

Did Madame know anything about the lodger ?

Nothing at all. Monsieur had, in fact, had the
arranging of the affair; but that gentleman, by
means of his passion, had managed to render himself
totally unintelligible, and the way he gesticulated
and gnashed his teeth so violently, without
any other result, warned Jerry once more to draw

his inquiries to a head with the question  would
either Madame or Monsieur give him the address
of their landlady ?

Here, however, arose another dilemma. Monsieur
looked upon the inquiry as a trick for Madame's
daring lover to gain knowledge of her residence, and,
more passionately than ever, he refused to supply the
information himself or to allow his wife to do so.

Jerry was in despair, but made one last effort.
Since the landlady's address was to be denied him,
would that of her friend be granted him, he swearing
on his oath, by everything Monsieur chose, that
he had no thoughts of ever seeing Madame again.
Even this, however, would not appease the fiery
little Frenchman, and Jerry was fain to retire with
success in his mission denied him because of such a
silly fancy, to wait until the morning, when there
might be a hope of Monsieur being a little cooler
and more reasonable  meanwhile he must have
patience ; but when one has been waiting for so
many weary hours, the last minute which divides us
from our object is doubly full of suspense, because
of its comparison in length.

So Jerry found it, and the mystery of the velvet
cover made it none the less so.

In no pleasant frame of mine  certainly not
wishing Monsieur Zola a good-night  Jerry turned
out into the crowd. He had not, however, gone
very far before there was a hand laid on his arm, a
paper was thrust into his grasp, and before he had
time to say a word, Madame's tall figure had retreated
from his side.

Guessing its contents, Jerry unrolled the paper
and read the following address : Mrs Spicer, Wicker's
Row, near Cross Street. Fate had, indeed, been
very kind, for now at last Jerry believed he held in
his hand the clue for which he had so long sought.

During the foregoing interview, the Frenchman
having expressed some fear lest the velvet cover
which he now looked upon with vindictive hatred
should lead to further trouble by being proved to
be "stolen goods" as Jerry was half tempted to
believe, had readily assented to the clown's proposition
to buy it back, taking care, however, to
pocket a trifle by the transaction.

Thus, with his two precious possessions  the
velvet cover and the paper  Jerry set his face toward
the town, with the determination to make
uncertainty sure before he was many hours older.

His return tramp to Greyton, however, took him
somewhat longer than he anticipated, and it was
fully half-past ten o'clock before he was fairly
inside the city.

At that time of night he could not very well pay
the visit he intended, supposing Lisette lodged with
the Mrs Spicer whose address he had so fortunately
obtained, as he in his new accession of hope thought
possible, though he was quite at a loss for her
motive in selling the velvet cover, no suspicion of
evil entering his mind, knowing as he did that only
a little while before Lisette had told him of the
nice little store she had laid by for " a day when it
rained ; " but all the same, so eager was he to make
sure one way or the other, either that he was on

the right or wrong scent, that he plodded on tired
as he was to where he was told he would find Cross
Street, and then after a little trouble, owing to an
absence of reliable guides, at length found himself
in Wicker's Row, a dingy thoroughfare enough,
where most of the houses were wrapt in sullen
darkness, save one in which every window on the
lower floor was a blaze of light with loud sounds
of noise and bustle, the rest of the house being
in shadow save where a dim flickering liszt
gleamed fitfully in one of the high upper windows.
After vainly seeking for any clue by which he
might distinguish Mrs Spicer's abode from the resta
hopeless task since no number was given him
as a guide,  Jerry decided to apply for information
where it seemed most likely he would obtain it,
namely, at the house with the lights. As he stood
before the door, the sounds of many voices, laughter,
the tramp of many feet, and the din of loud music
was nearly deafening, and he had to knock more
than once before he was heard.

After, however, the third application of the
knocker, the door was snatched open suddenly by a
servant girl, tall and stolid in appearance, and, of
course, looking as though she had just stepped out
of the coal hole, a peculiarity of lodging-house servants.


Of her Jerry inquired in his most polite tones as
to the whereabouts of Mrs Spicer's lodging house
in the Row.

Where's Mrs Spicer's ? " returned the girl, with
an attempt at a smile on her expansive, fat, sallow.

and very besmeared countenance. " Well, it ain't
far off  leastways, you're there now."

Oh, this is the house ; then can you tell me if I
shall find a Miss Hartzmann here ? "

Lor', if you want any one why don't yer come in,
and not keep a body on the doorstep a-catching one's
death of cold, and missus a-calling and a-shouting
all over the place fit to deafen one." It was plain
the girl was not possessed of the best of tempers,
and her annoyance visibly increased as she went on.
What's the use of you a-asking me for any Miss,
or Mrs for that matter? How am I expected to
know who's not and who is in the house at this
blessed minute ? I ain't got a memory like a loss,"
the illustration was hardly apt, but no matter, " let
alone knowing people's names without asking 'em ;
and if I'm to set to work and ask every man jack
as has set his foot inside this door what his name is,
I'd have my work set. Not but what that's done
already ; I'm well-nigh run ofi* my legs. I always
told missus how it'd be when she let the second floor
go get married on our six weeks' washing-day."

Thus grumbling in a half-fierce, half-sulky tone,
emphasising each sentence by the flourish of a pair
of red arms, terminating in a pair of equally red
and dirty hands, totally regardless of the many
attempts which Jerry made to turn the current of
her indignation, it is impossible to say how long
the ill-used " slavey " might have rattled on, had
not our hero applied the same key to close her lips
as he had often used to open those of others.

Squeezing a shilling  even then the news that he

wished for was cheap at the price  into the girl's
hand, he said quietly but determinedly, 

Look here, my good girl, I'm very sorry if
your mistress has been imposing on your powers
of endurance, and I haven't the slightest wish to
take up your time, if only you'll give me a plain
answer to a plain question."

What is it ? " said the girl, her loud-voiced
anger subdued into a not more prepossessing sullenness.
" Look sharp, they're a-going into supper
directly, and if the onion sauce is burnt as I've left
on the stove there'll be the devil to pay. Look
sharp, can't you," for afraid suddenly lest the
answer he waited for should be in the negative,
a blow to his hopes which just then he did not
feel equal to, Jerry hesitated.

Thus admonished, however, he asked somewhat
timidly, 

Have you a lodger by the name of Hartzmann" 
(very distinctly)  "living here  Miss Hartzman ? "

On the first utterance of the name a look of intelligence
as surprising as it was sudden spread
over the stolid slavey's big, dirty face.

' Hartzmann ? ' I always calls it ' Asian ' ; I
never could get hold of these here foreign names
by the right end."

Then she is here ? " asked Jerry eagerly, in
spite of all his sober resolutions, his brotherly
heart giving a big jump.

Here ? Yes ; she's here right enough. Had our
top floor front these weeks gone. You want to see
her?"

Well, no ; not to-night ; unless she is anywhere
handy," said Jerry, half hoping such would be the
case, but deterred from being too pressing lest he
should be ushered into the midst of the gay 
just as he was  a not too festive-looking
individual  without a word to say to Lisette
as to the reason of his sudden appearance before
her  " not unless she's anywhere handy."

Lor', she ain't that  'ain't time, yer know. She
ain't come down yet ; but I'm a-hoping she soon
will  it's mighty lonely for her up there."

As she spoke the look of intelligence on the girl's
face faded into another expression, which Jerry
could not quite make out. He was debating in his
own mind whether to go in or not, when suddenly
a harsh voice called from somewhere in the hall,
Sarah ! Sarah ! where are you ? Come here at
once. Tiresome girl you are, never anywhere when
you're wanted. Sarah 1 "  with increasing violence
" Sarah ! "

Well, you ain't coming in, I suppose," said the
girl to Jerry, glancing round somewhat apprehensively
in the direction of the voice.

"No," said Jerry, for her sake making up his
mind quickly. " I'll come tomorrow  it'll do
then."

Don't be too early, for she's sure not to be up
till late. To-night's sure to upset her ; but I'll tell
her you'll be round."

Sarah !  Sarah ! " came the shrill voice shriller
than ever.

All right, I'm coming," snapped the owner of

that name in a very different tone to that in which
she replied to Jerry ; and without giving her questioner
time to say a word more, she closed the door
as abruptly as she had opened it, and stolid and
sullen as usual returned to the duty against which
she had so fruitlessly protested as following a six
weeks' wash  namely, the serving up of a tripe
supper to the wedding guests of the second floor.

But even amidst all the hurry and confusion
which attended the sumptuous banquet she contrived
to find time to mount the many creaking
wooden stairs which led to the top front attic,
carrying with her as daintily set out as she knew
how a tiny morsel stolen from the many good
things provided for the feast, a small piece of
tripe hidden under a floating mass of onions and
watery sauce, a piece of bread, which in her efforts
to toast she had rendered black as coal on one side
the other being a sickly grey (to say nothing of the
damage to her fingers and the sharp words lie had
had to endure during the toasting performance), the
whole disposed on a battered tray, the dents in
which caused the plate, a severely chipped one, to
bound up dangerously high into the air more than
once during her ascent, the same covered with a
serviette far from clean, held in its place by a monstrous
glass salt-cellar and a leaden-looking pepper
castor, which by the time the end of the journey
was reached had emptied more than half its contents
in little heaps round the edge of the plate, a
process which was hardly likely to afibrd the diner
therefrom any great pleasure.

VOL. II. R

Undeterred by these reflections  indeed I think
not a little pleased with her own handiwork 
Sarah tapped as gently as her bungling fingers
would allow at a door on the top landing (a
courtesy one does not always observe in lodging-house
servants, especially when one's limited means
make it compulsory for one's apartment to be
somewhat nearer the sky than is agreeable to
those with whom '' stairs " are a consideration),
waited a few moments, then pushing open the door
gently with her knee (another practice much
favoured by the tribe), entered softly.

As already it has been decreed that it was too
late an hour for visitors, we, like Jerry, must be
content to wait until the morning to pay our visit
where we would wish ; but even from the landing
we hear Sarah's gruff voice asking questions in a
subdued tone, to which the answers are so low
they do not reach us.

Only once are the voices raised, but they sink
suddenly, and after a little, as though she were
loath to go, Sarah comes out of the room again and
goes with her usual heavy tread down the stairs,
muttering to herself as she goes, " I suppose it was
all right what I told her. He was tallish a bit,
and might have been handsome if I could have
seen his face. He had not got on a long coat ; but
as to his being a foreigner, how's it to be expected
that me as 'ave never been taught how to speak my
own language proper, should know whether other
folks do or no. Anyhow, what I told her seemed to
wake her up a bit, so there can't be no harm done",

And with this conclusion Sarah returned through
the realms of lights, dancing, laughing, talking,
feasting, and all the other entertainments of merrymaking
to her certainly quieter, but hardly more
orderly region of pots and pans, and was soon upto
her elbows in the weighty, and certainly greasy,
business of washing up.

Meanwhile in the big city two souls in the
silence of the night lay and dreamt of what the
next day should bring forth : one in that room
above where the light flickered tried in vain to
single from each other in the close web which was
daily drawing round her, the three sisters. Past,
Present, and Future ; the other, a brave, honest
heart, worn out with a long day's work and excitement,
slept the deep sleep of one who has earned
his rest, smiling now and then to himself as, in his
dreams, he was no longer without, but within that
well-lighted house in Wicker's Row, sitting at the
head of a long table of guests, among whom were
the man with the bandaged fingers. Monsieur and
Madame Zola, the one more fiery, the other more
washed-out and uninteresting than ever, Mrs
Parkins, poor Smith, the Breaknecks, the old
cobbler, the Signor, Sarah, and a host of others,
all attired in appropriate costumes  Apollo's gorgeous
garments side by side with Sarah's soiled,
torn cotton sown, the voluminous folds of Mrs
Parkins's black silk half hiding poor Smith's
shabby outfit (the good lady, I may say, wore the.
Dutch clock for a brooch, which strangely enough
did not look at all out of place on her expansive

ti

bosom), all the rest in their show dresses, and the
cobbler in his leathern apron and brass-rimmed spectacles,
nothing strange about his appearance save
that his hair, what little he had, consisted of dozens
of boot laces. But Jerry did not worry himself about
trifles ; what did it matter to him if every dish on
the table was a conjuring trick, or rather the materials
for such, with rules and directions attached,
or that instead of knives and forks there were
whips, curry combs, and other appliances of the
ring and stable ? he only knew that he was seated,
dressed in the most gorgeous clown's garb ever
made or invented by mortal, at the head of all the
company, by his side a figure which it did not need
the dress of the Fay of Fire to recognise, a figure
whose face was hidden under a velvet curtain
worked with gold.

This screen between him and the face he so
longed to see was the only bar to Jerry's complete
happiness, and by-and-by moved in his dream by
an impulse, he bent forward to raise it. But ere
his hand could do its office, just in fact as he was
about to raise the thick veil, a sudden sound of
water rushing sounded in his ears, the lights all
went out, he struggled violently and awoke to find
it all a dream.

And not only that, he woke also to the fact that
it was morning at last, the morning of the day on
which he was to see his little sister Lisette once
more, the dawn of another day indeed.

"CAN IT BE YOU?"

When next we see our hero it is somewhat later in
the day, when he is just finishing his toilet in the
dingy little room he had engaged for the night, for
eager as he was on the night before to pay his visit
to Lisette, it is now past three o'clock and he has
not yet even started.

To tell the truth, when first awakening to the
fact that it was morning, his impulse had been to
get up at once and put his intention into action ;
but on second thought, recalling Sarah's words
relative to the effect the gaiety of the night before
might have upon the household, the little fancy-rider
included, he determined to indulge his weary
body, which still bore the effects of his long tramp
of the day before, in a second nap.

This nap was prolonged to such an extent that
to his dismay when he awoke it was near mid-day.

Full of remorse he jumped out of bed, hastily
dressed, and would have made off there and then
but for the appearance of his landlady with his

breakfast, which she declared she would not keep
hot any longer.

So aggrieved was this lady when she was told
to keep the victuals and charge double in the bill
for them if she liked, that to save a scene, and
obeying also the dictates of his inner man, Jerry
sat down and calmly and with a relish demolished
the whole of the meal provided.

This done h found himself of a different frame
of mind to what he had been before. It so happened
that in his room was a mirror, which hung
on the wall, in which he when rising from his
breakfast caught a glimpse of himself.

Having done so he was suddenly endued with
the idea that he was hardly fitly habited for paying
a visit even to his sister.

For knocking about he had donned his oldest
suits, which by process had certainly not been improved,
in fact, in his eyes, he appeared very
shabby, nay, well nigh disreputable, and he at once
decided that he could not present himself before
Lisette in such a guise.

Actuated by an impulse for which he could not
afterwards account, he set off for the railway station,
at which it was his habit to leave the shabby
portmanteau containing all his worldly belongings.

This receptacle he transported to his lodgings,
and, producing from its well-stuffed interior various
articles of wearing apparel, prepared to array himself
in them according to his ideas on the dignity
and solemnity of the occasion.

This operation took some time, so elaborate was

it ; bit at length we behold him equipped at last
to his satisfaction standing coolly surveying his
reflection in the mirror already mentioned.

This was a huge old-fashioned affair which no
doubt in its time had been of considerable value
and not a little splendour, but now nearly all the
gilding had either been worn or knocked off* its
frame, leaving only a battered skeleton, in between
the veins of which its once unbroken surface was
divided into numerous little mirrors by so many
cracks as there are lines of latitude and longitude
on a map, with a few rivers and boundary lines
thrown in ; while owing to the glass having early
in its career slipped from the frame a little, the
surface looked exactly as if it had been struck by
lightning.

In this reflector, which presented him chopped
up into little bits of about four inches square, like
so many sandwiches, Jerry strove to ascertain
whether his appearance was satisfactory.

I can't say whether he had reason for the complacency
with which he conducted his review. Let
my reader judge for himself.

The figure which the mirror reflected was that
of a young man of about two-and-twenty years
of age, well built except for the fact of his being
rather short than otherwise, dressed in a comfortable
but hardly elegant-looking suit of a
texture not remarkable for being very fine, while
the agreement of hues contained in it was certainly
a matter of taste.

Although his tastes were by no means aesthetic,

Jerry had a strong liking for shades of grey-brown,
and various boiled-looking colours which
lie between, and usually composed his costume of
the same. His suit for the festive occasion of
which I write consisted of trousers of a grey
cloth, speckled with yellow and brown, the
mixture known, I believe, by the name of pepper
and salt ; waistcoat of brown, grey, and crimson
checks, recommended by a provincial tailor as
being of a cheerful pattern for winter ; a coat of
smoky grey, over which he would presently draw
his well-worn overcoat, which resembled, from
continual wear and tear, the once fashionable hue
known as mouldy orange ; a sage-green necktie,
ornamented by large horseshoes in yellow, and a
still larger one in silver as a pin, the same tie
having been bound into its place in a manner
which threatened in time to strangle the wearer
if he indulged in any very violent movement of
the neck ; the whole mass of variegated cloth
topped by a peculiarly round-shaped head, on
which, owing to a recent immersion in the hand
basin, a crop of particularly wiry sandy hair stood
up with great determination.

Such was Jerry as he set forth at last to pay the
visit which he anticipated with such mixed feelings,
which even the state of the weather did not
tend to damp. It seemed truly as if, after a short
glimpse of spring, the year had either fallen back
into winter, or taken a desperate rush forward
into autumn.

A high wind was blowing strong and piercing

enough to have whistled and howled under the
repine of the former, while the steady downpour
of rain from a sky covered with heavy threatening
clouds told of a spell of bad weather in store, and
made it seem dusk even before midday was long
past.

Hoisting a shabby but substantial " gamp," and
having carefully turned up his trousers round his
ankles to save them from the mud, Jerry was soon
plodding through the wind and rain towards
Wicker's Row.

After about half-an-hour's walking he reached
his destination, and rang the bell at Mrs
Spicer's.

He had scarcely let go the handle when it was
again snatched open, and Sarah's squalid figure,
dirtier and more disreputable than on the night
before, greeted his vision.

Oh, you've come, have you ? " she said laconically,
surveying Jerry from top to toe with
something like suspicion written on her expansive
countenance.

Yes," said Jerry cheerfully, determined not
to be quenched by any amount of wet blankets, no
matter in what shape or form ; " I've come."

With that he proceeded to plant his dripping
umbrella in the rusty stand and open his coat.
It seemed that Sarah was ao-ain inclined to
revenge some of her wrongs upon the head of anyone
who happened to be near, but fortunately
for Jerry the shrill voice calling " Sarah ! Sarah ! "
interposed.

"All right," she said, in the same sullen tone,,
which was not at all likely to reach the ears of
whoever summoned her. " All right. I'm coming,.
I'm coming. And now you've come " (to Jerry,,
"just go straight up four flights of stairs, and
knock at the door right before you."

With this she pushed her straggling hair out of
her eyes with a dirty hand, thereby adding another
smudge to those already ornamenting her face, and
disappeared to the lower regions, which, to judge
by the never-ceasing sounds of the shrill voice,
were hardly as peaceful as they had been the night
before.

Although Jerry would have preferred that his
arrival should have been announced, as it might
take away some of the awkwardness of the meeting,
he comforted himself that Lisette expected
him, and no doubt was on the watch.

Perhaps, even, she had heard his ring, and was
waiting at her door, or even at the top of the
stairs. It was only a greeting such as a brother
might expect.

Encouraged by this thought, our hero shook
himself like a big dog after a run in the rain,
and began his ascent of the creaking stairs.

Up, up he went, glancing as he did so between
the banisters, as though expecting to see his
thoughts fulfilled; but the four flights of stairs
were mounted without any interruption, and when
he stood before the door Sarah had indicated 
this even was shut.

After waiting a moment, either to recover his

breath or courage, he knocked, softly at first ; again,,
a Httle louder ; then, in response to what he thought
was a low " Come in," entered.

The room was so dark that at first he could only
stare blankly before him ; but gradually, as his eyes
became used to the dim light, he was able to distinguish
the objects which were before him.

These were not many, for at the first glance one
saw how scantily the room was furnished. He did
not, however, pause to take an inspection, for his
attention was arrested by the sound of a voice
which made his heart suddenly leap into his throat
and beat there in a way which made him stand
stock-still for a moment.

It was the voice he had longed to hear, but low
and trembling in its tones  not raised in greeting
to him, but whispering strange, incoherent words,
such as Jerry had once called gibberish.

Half-unconsciously he listened, standing motionless
in the darkness, and staring with wondering
eyes to where, before a low fire which burnt in
the State ; half-sittings half-reclining on an old
wooden couch, was a slight, dark figure, the face
turned away from him, the hands crossed over a
mass of white stuff" which rested on her knees.

A moment or two he listened, then the figure,
which he knew so well, yet was so strangely unfamiliar
to him, moved slightly ; and, wondering to
see no second person to act as a listener, he went
a step or two forward, then paused again.

The voice was still murmuring in that low,
uncertain tone in the strange lano-uao-e, not a word

of which he could understand, save one  that one,
one which was repeated over and over again, each
time with increasing expression  that word a name
which was the one which most strongly recalled to
his mind his brotherhood.

Over and over again came those unintelligible
sentences, broken now and then by that one word
of meaning, uttered always in a tone of yearning-entreaty
which told its own tale.

Presently these wilder utterances ceased abruptly
died away, and in their place came low, moaning
sentences, in language which, broken as it was, the
listener understood only too well.

Carl, Carl ! " said the voice, quivering out into
darkness and silence, " you said you has love forme
once. Is it died ? It is soon. I has said to
you, I love you. It was true  it was true. You,"
with a great earnestness, " you said you did not
think it could be that I has love for you  but has
I not told you it is  it is ? I has love for you now.
Oh, it is not wicked  your love is died  but mine
it is so deep buried here, in my heart  I cannot
let it to die. I has love no one but you. I has
said it and you has been glad  but now, now what
you said is false  all false to me. They say I has
been fool  they laugh  and oh, it is hard  it
makes me to feel that one day my love may be like
yours and die. I may hate you  and what shall I
do then ? I has no one else to love me  no one to
care  oh, it is so sad  so long  so lonely. Ah,
Dein Got, so I have no one in the world  I am
so lonely ! "

Jerry could stand still no longer. Every sentence
coming to him through the silence had fallen
on his heart like a blow from a knife ; a sudden
fear was in his mind, and when that last " it is so
lonely " died away in that half-sob, half-sigh which
he remembered so well, he sprang forward in the
darkness towards the sofa.

Ere he could reach it, the figure upon it had
started violently and turned round.

Who is it ? " said the voice, suddenly losing its
trembling hesitation and grown shrill with emotion.
Who is it ? Say  who  Carl  say it is not  "

By what seemed an effort, the girl raised herself
to a standing position, her bundle of work falling
to her feet.

Jerry tried to speak, but words would not come ;
he only put out his arms blindly and closed them
round the slight figure, which suddenly losing all
power, lay unresisting in his hold.

How long he held it thus, with that fear in his
heart getting wilder and wilder, he never knew 
never guessed how in the interval, brief as it was,
consciousness went and came to the awakened o-irL
that her acceptance of his support was not voluntary,
but merely the natural dependence of the
weak on the strong, without which she must have
fallen to the ground.

Presently the voice came again in the darkness
which hid them both from each other.

Jerry ! "

Yes, Liz, it's me. I've come to see you. It is
you, isn't it ? " At the words a flame started up

from among the smouldering ashes in the fireplace,
and the girl suddenly slipped as it were from the
grasp that held her and sank down on the couch.

As she did so Jerry's eyes rested upon her, and
then wore a sudden startled expression.

What is it ? " he said, drawing back a step or
two, his own voice harsh with surprise. " Surely
there is some mistake, I  "

Yes, yes, I know," cried the girl. " It is no
mistake. It is I, Lisette, only you do not know
me. Perhaps you have not heard what  Oh,
don't turn away, for God's sake don't turn away.
It is I  Lisette. Jerry, for God's sake don't leave
me now. Oh, mem Got, is it so bad as this ? My
heart will break."

And with a cry of bitterness which echoed round
the room, the girl flung herself back on the sofa,
hiding her face in her hands and sobbing as though
her heart was truly breaking.

Jerry stood for a moment dazed by the confusion
of ideas which united this voice he knew so well
with the face he had caught a glimpse of in the
firelight, a face which was so like, yet so unlike
to that which had so often smiled at him in his
visions and dreams, a strange face which as yet he
could not recognise only involuntarily shrink from.
Yet the voice was Lisette's, and it was that which
called upon him so pitifully not to turn away from
her, not to leave her.

Trusting his ears and heart rather than his eyes
and senses, Jerry did not wait to think, but the
next moment was kneeling, great rough fellow that

he was, beside the low couch, seeking to draw the
rigid figure once more to him.

At first the girl resisted, until he said in his voice
which too had suddenly become soft and gentle,
very unlike his own, " Liz, my girl, it's you, o
'Course it is, only I was a bit confused coming in in
the dark, and couldn't see."

It was only his kind honest heart that prompted
the words, but it broke the ice, and suddenly the
hands were dropped from the face he did not
know, that it might rest on his shoulder, while the
slight form  oh, so slight now, Jerry could tell in
that short moment  clung to him with a fervour
which was almost passionate, while great wrenching
sobs broke from the heaving breast, and tears,
hot, bitter, blinding tears, such as are wrung from
a heart which is nigh to bursting, were rained upon
the rough shoulder of the ugly yellow coat.

And Jerry ?

All in a moment the remembrance of the words
to which he had been an unwilling listener, the
remembrance of the name by which he had been
greeted, as if its owner was the only one in the
world who could bring light into the darkness
which was closing round this poor wandering soul,
all this, and all his other plans were forgotten in
that one thought, this was Lisette, he had found
her whom he sought, not well and happy as he had
pictured her in his dreams, but sick, sad, and lonely,
and sorely troubled.

Yes, this was Lisette, and Jerry straightway forgot
all else save that one thought, forgot what she

was, and what he was, and putting his strong arms
round her, held her to him as though he would
never let her go again, held her with her head
resting on his breast, while his strong frame
trembled so that he could scarcely stand, and the
tight grip at his throat grew more and more suffocating
as the moments flew by, each marked by the
sound of a big sob which wrung his heart.

How long they stood thus he never knew, it
seemed hours, and yet but a few seconds, until
alarmed by the convulsive quivering of the girl as
she clung so wildly to him, he forced himself to try
and calm her, fearful of the consequences of such
an outburst of grief on one who was apparently so
little equal to it.

At first that lump in his throat would not let
him say a word, but presently he managed to say
verily,

Cheer up, lass, don't cry, there's a good lass.
It's me,  Jerry ; I've been looking for you such a
while, but I've found you, and there's no cause
to cry. Come, lass, don't go on like this ; you'll
be hurting yourself, and I shall think it's all along
of me a-coming and taking you by surprise. Don't
cry, Liz, don't; I've come to look after you, and
you'll be all right now with your old friend Jerry
Don't cry, lass, don't."

He went on repeating this entreaty each time
with less calmness, till presently, quite forgetting
what he did, he drew the head which rested on
his shoulder closer to his breast, stroking away
with a trembling' hand the treat bisf tears which

forced themselves out of the kindly grey-green
eyes which had suddenly lost all their sparkle
and fun, and grown dim and misty, and fell on
the dusky curls which rested on his coat, stroking
them away one after another, over and over again
repeating his entreaty, and at length stooping his
own sandy head and gently and fervently, like
a mother would kiss her child, almost reverently
he kissed the white drawn cheeks and quivering
lips, pouring out in a few words which he could
not retain the passionate tenderness which he had
in his heart.

Only a few endearing words such as might have
had no special meaning but for the tone of quiet
earnestness with which they were uttered. The
next minute he could have bitten his tongue out

o

for having said them, knowing as he did what
mockery they must have sounded. He, however,
comforted with the assurance that they had not
reached the ears for which, in the heat of the
moment, they had been intended, for he became
suddenly aware that the sobs had ceased, and
Lisette lay passive, almost insensible in his arms.

What is it ? " he asked, in great alarm, bending
over her, a sudden fear making his heart standstill.


'' Couch  water  faint," were all the words he
could catch of those which fell from the pallid
lips, and gently, but quickly, he laid her on the
couch, and sought about in the darkness until he
found a glass of water on a table near.

This he held to her lips, but his hand shook
VOL. II. S

so that he spilt part of it, which, however, was
not wasted. Its cool touch on her neck and face
roused Lisette, till little by little she was herself
again.

Herself ! Alas, even when in answer to Jerry's
inquiry she declared such to be the case, Jerry
cleared his throat loudly to suppress a sigh at the
mockery of the words. How little this Lisette
whom he had found resembled she whom he had
sought. How long would it be before one would
be lost in the other.

Now, however, that she was in a measure recovered,
although even then lying back pale and
languid upon her hard pillows  now that the pain
of the first meeting was over, each felt the necessity
of a return to stern reality, which naturally meant
no little explanation on either side.

On his part Jerry seemed suddenly to have lost
all his self-possession. He sat down on the edge
of a low wooden chair and played nervously with
his hat, which, in a sudden fit of remembrance,
he had just removed from his head. Lisette was
now by far the most collected, though perhaps
her late agitation had rendered her so weak that
she could do nought but accept whatever happened.
There was not very much to tell. Jerry's adventures
we are already acquainted with. Lisette's
life during the few short weeks which passed since
we last saw her had been day after day the same
as yesterday, save when sometimes the pains which
made it almost impossible for her to endure sometimes,
left her free for a little, but this was not

often. Even when it was so, and she was able to
look round her a little, she often hailed the return
of torture which made it impossible for her to
think or even move, with relief, because this bodily-pain
was to her not half so great as that of her
mind.

It was not enough that from day to day came
that endless struggle to bear a heavy burden, that
confusion of ideas which often follows a great
sorrow, but before her eyes was ever the knowledge
of the helplessness which had been so suddenly
thrust upon her, that terrible tormenting
question, what was to be their end ?

Ah, what great doors hang on little hinges.
Could Carl Hermann have known what a double
part he was to have played in wrecking the life
of his little countrywoman, who, child that she
was, had trusted in him so implicitly, surely he
would have bitten out his own tongue  cut off
his own hand rather than have been the instrument
to inflict such two terrible blows on her
innocent head. Perhaps it had been a judgment
on him  at least so Jerry looked upon it  that
he who had wantonly, or at all events wilfully,
caused her the first bitter trouble she had known
in this life, should have been the one who had
been made to stand by and see her narrowly
escape an awful death, to survive to the consciousness
of life which might be even more
terrible, without being able to put out a hand
to save her, to see that flower which he had
once called so fair, but had nevertheless ruthlessly

flung away for some more gaudy blossom, crushed
and torn, till it seemed hardly possible that any
man in future would care to waste so much as a
glance upon what he had despised.

And if it had been Lisette's death he had been
forced to witness instead of that narrow fight for
life, surely his punishment would not have been
too great.

END OF VOL. II.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, Printers, EDINBURGH.


30112 OSfisniioflo

the University. """ ''"' -n dismissal from

OV 2 7 1379

OCT 2 11

Lice O-1096

A NOVEL.

BY

LILY TINSLEY,

Author OF "a WOMAN's REVENGE," "THE WRECKER's DAUGHTER,"

"the lion queen," "shadows," "at the cross roads."

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. III.

LONDON: TINSLEY Brothers,

8 CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.

18 8 6.

[All rights rcscrved.'\

CONTENTS.

-

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

A TALE OF SORROW AND PAIN, 1

Chapter II.

I LOVED HIM SO," 32

CHAPTER III.

BROTHER AND SISTER, 52

CHAPTER lY.

A GLEAM OF HOPE, 69

CHAPTER V.

AVHAT THE BREEZE DID,



CHAPTER VI.

THE ANGEL SISTER, 104

CHAPTER VII.

PAGE

jerry's banishment, 127

CHAPTER Til I.

SLANDEROUS TONGUES, . . . . .147

CHAPTER I X.
"go away !" 175

CHAPTER X.

she's gone ! " 200

CHAPTER X I.
left alone, 225

CHAPTER XII.
a duel to the death, 241

CHAPTER XIII.
IN NEW strength, 253

CHAPTER X I Y.

FEARFUL STILL AT FIRST CHAPTER I.

A TALE OF SORROW AND PAIN.

To Jerry the tale told by Lisette in the calm
weary voice which made the recital doubly real
was every word new, but there is no occasion forme
to repeat it. My reader already knows what
happened on that night when, before the eyes of
the terrified audience, the Fay of Fire missed her
footing and fell, causing Bonfire to stumble also,
just as he took his last leap. It was a terrible
moment  horse and rider had rolled over together,
the one entangled in the burning hurdle, the other
stricken and helpless, at the mercy of those strong
limbs which struck out so fiercely to regain a
footing, and the hot, scorching flames which rose
from the gate which but a moment before Carl
Hermann, in obedience to a command of his wife's
father, had been supporting.

VOL. m. A

No wonder the people turned pale, screamed
and fainted  it was truly a sight to make the
bravest heart sick with terror.

Brave hearts! There were no doubt many
near who would willingly have stood up before
any woman's enemy had he been ever so strong ;
but who knew what help to give or how to act
in such a case as this?

Every one stands still, staring either appealingly
at his neighbour to know what to do, or turning
away in very horror from the sight of that terrified
animal plunging and kicking amidst the
flames, which are beginning to burn even more
fiercely where one catches sight of a scrap of
something scarlet and the gleam of a shining
helmet. Yes, every one waits for the other to
make a move ; even the false-hearted lover for
once stands out in his true character as a shrinking,
trembling coward, until suddenly some one,
who has made no soft-worded vows of love and
homage  who does not even rank as the equal of
a lad of but a few years old in common sense,
finds love enough and wits enough to go to the
rescue.

With strength of which no one looking at his
shrunken form would have deemed him capable,
he tears from the centre pole, to which they are
attached, the long festoons of roses over which
the Fay has so lately danced, and which he knows
are fastened upon ropes of a considerable thickness.


*' Come on I " he shouts excitedly, pushing his

way madly into the ring before the moment of
waiting is quite over.

Although he utters no more explicit direction
than this, his movement is the key for others who
are quite as willing if not so quick as he is, and
in less time than it takes to write, the long ropes
of flowers are bound round Bonfire, so that he
can kick and struggle no longer, and by many
willing hands he is dragged out of the reach of
the flames. These burst forth with renewed
brightness round the motionless figure which is
left to them, but heavy feet trample them out,
and eager hands snatch away the burning masses
of wood, and a heavy banner ends its work upon
the scarlet dress, which it would burn to ashes,
and its wearer too, if it had a chance.

Its wearer ? Is that, then, a living being which
lies so still upon the ground, in the centre of the
throng ? Living ? Who can say ? only the men
are very, very gentle as they lift the hurdle upon
which they have placed it ; and have very white
faces and trembling hands when they bear their
burden out of sight within those heavy velvet
curtains, which parted but a few moments before
to give entrance to the fairy form of the Fay of
Fire and her clever steed Bonfire. Where are
they now ?

It is all very well for the manager, bland and
smiling, to step forth a few moments later and
tell the people any amount of lies ; so long as
their minds are made easy, what does it matter?
What if, later on in the night, there comes a

sound of a gun-shot from the direction of the
circus stables, which is poor Bonfire's death-warrant
; while from that hour, in that dreary
room in Wicker's Row, a bitter struggle between
life, which is so full of anguish, and death, which
is cruel enough to keep away, has commenced,,
and seems to h?ve no hope.

The morning after her accident saw Lisette
suffering not only from the injuries she had then
sustained, which were in themselves of the gravest
nature, but paying what in any case must have
been the penalty of the struggle of the last few
weeks, in a severe attack of brain fever.

The fight had been one such as few have ta
go through in their lives, and it was a marvel to
those around her how one seemingly so frail as
the little German girl could have come off victorious.


For many days her life was despaired of, but
it seemed that the prayer she had so often prayed
lately was not to be granted. Death, though he
came near enough to cast the shadow of his wings
over her, passed on elsewhere without folding
them round her.

Her recovery, or rather escape, was perhaps all
the more wonderful when the circumstances of it
were remembered. Lisette's lodging was naturally
a poor one ; but when, after the accident, it
was debated by those who had undertaken the
merciful task, where they should take her, it was
decided that as the hospital  which was undoubtedly
the place where she should have gone  was

such a long distance away, right at the other end
of the town, it would be best to take her " home,"
or at least to the place she called home for the
time, little as it deserved the name.

To Wicker's Row, therefore, up into that room
against the sky, they carried all that was left of
the little Fay of Fire. Here came the doctor to
see her, a busy, practical man, who first seconded
all Mrs Spicer's indignant protests that for such a
case the hospital was the best place ; but by-and-by,
after a close examination, was of the opinion
that of neither her room in Wicker's Row or at
any hospital would his patient be long an inmate,
the nature of her injuries was so severe that it
hardly seemed possible that she could survive that
night. But the morning came, and proved the
doctor's calculation to be incorrect ; that day and
the following passed, seeing the fever which held
her in a fiery hand still increasing ; morning grew
to evening, evening to morning, many times, and
.still there was life, if little hope.

So it had gone on, till at length the turning-point
was reached when it must be either life or
death. And, although there was no one in all
the world to offer up a petition that it might be
' life," though if it had been *' death" no one in
that great city would have so much as missed the
fair young life that had passed from out their
midst, yet " life " was the heavier in the scale, and
Lisette struggled back to life again. But, alas !
what a different life to the one that had once
been.

In the search which had necessarily been made
of her belongings, fortunately for Lisette in the
presence of the doctor, the landlady had discovered
a purse containing five sovereigns sewn
up in the body of her dress. Banking, for one
who led a wandering life, and might want her
little store at any moment, was, of course, out of
the question ; indeed, was an unheard of thing
among the brotherhood, save, perhaps, in the case
of Jerry, who had managed to scrape together a
neat little sum prior to his illness, which he had
secretly deposited in the Post Office Savings Bank
till any time he should find a use for it.

This five pounds, however, was all that Lisette
had been able to save, with all her care, for the
day when it rained ; and fortunate it was for her
that she had done so, for the day which now
dawned was without doubt stormier and darker
than any even she in her care for the future had
imagined.

Its existence, to begin with, somewhat mollified
Mrs Spicer, who, on learning how grave was the
nature of her lodger's illness, was inclined to resent
it in a way peculiar to landladies.

She declared that she would undertake none of
the responsibilities of the affair, she had no one in
the house who could be spared to take the post of
nurse ; while as to the amount of work which
would necessarily be entailed, she did not at all
see how it was to be managed. And supposing
the girl were to die, a nice thing it'd be to have a
funeral from the house. Why, every one of her

lodgers would insist upon it that it was some
infectious disease, that the drains were bad, or
find some other reasons for vacating their quarters
as quickly as possible ; to say nothing of who was
going to pay the expenses of nursing and the
burying  if it came to that.

The good woman ran on at some length in this
strain, at every sentence gathering fresh indignation.
'Twas only by sheer strength of lung that
the doctor at length reduced her to silence.

She swore (literally) that not another moment
should Lisette stay in the house  the hospital
was the place for her  whether she lived or died
there wouldn't matter to nobody ; the lodgers
there wouldn't hurry to be ois any more, no matter
what she did. Of that, at any rate, she (Mrs
Spicer) was determined  to the hospital the sick-girl
should go.

On this point she insisted with such violence
that nothing short of the doctor's threatening
her with legal proceedings if she in any way disturbed
his patient, would reduce her to order.

At this threat she was somewhat cowed, but
even then I doubt if it would not have gone
hardly with Lisette if the results of the search
of her room had not been so satisfactory.

The discovery of the five pounds seemed to
restore her temper a little ; but noting the way
in which her watery grey eyes glistened as she
counted the money in her hand, the doctor
thought best to put in a claim to a direction of
he fund.

At first milady was very loath to part with
the coins; but being somewhat afraid of the
doctor, who before now had shown that he was
not to be put down even by the grimmest of
landladies, she at length handed him the neat
little sum.

She paid him out, however, in more ways than
one, as is the practice of the tribe ; but that is a
matter of no importance, since but for him Lisette
must have suffered severely.

On being asked the sum she had agreed to let
the room to the fancy-rider for a week, she named
exactly double that which she had in reality demanded
; but, knowing he had no power to contradict
her, the doctor paid over to her rent for
the said room for six weeks to come, making her
sign a proper receipt for the same, thus securing
his patient undisputed possession of the top-front
until she should be able to act for herself.

His next step was to procure a nurse, an expense
which would have been spared, and indeed many
comforts besides been Lisette's had she been taken
to the hospital ; but since it was too late for the
removal, he (the doctor) was bound to do what he
could.

And well was it for Lisette that she had such a
conscientious friend in her physician. One almost
wonders how, with so much work to do in the big-city,
the hard-working man had time to spare for
any duties but those which his profession demanded.
But, though to all appearances a bluff, almost
rough, practical man, there was a soft corner in

his heart which was touched by the friendless
stranger's helplessness.

He himself made some inquiries at the show,
and since Lisette's engagement was not up, quietly-informed
Mr Petman that her salary would of
course be paid as usual up till the time agreed
for her dismissal.

This, of course, though he blustered and protested
a good bit, the manager could not gainsay ;
and fearful, perhaps, lest by-and-by, if he refused,
Lisette might lay damages against him to no small
amount, he paid down the sum at once. This
added to the scanty store, which was yet terribly
small when one thinks of the great battle which
it was to help to fight.

So all things were made ready, and for days
and days the struggle went on ; then came the
turning-point, and after that the slow coming
back to life.

This last was the hardest work of all. Lisette
might certainly have been said to conquer, but as
yet she was by no means master of her kingdom
; and while rejoicing in the skill which had
triumphed when defeat seemed more than possible,
Dr Woodward was baffled, perplexed, and not a
little chagrined at his patient's very slow recovery.

He was a clever man, no doubt, but, in his
study of the body, he was apt to forget that the
healing of the mind is a far more difficult task.

It did occur to him, however, one day that
there was something more the matter here than
his learning could grapple with.

It was the day after he had dismissed the merse,
for the money had nearly all gone, only enough
left to keep the girl alive, even if she lived in the
plainest way. Even then he had had to leave
his own fee entirely out of the question, which is
a hard thing for a man with a sickly wife and a
family of growing children to do. It was not the
first time Dr Woodward had practised this sort
of charity, and he had so far never lost by it, as
indeed it was impossible he should. It was, I
say, on the day he had dismissed Mrs Seton, the
motherly woman who had been such a conscientious
nurse during the time of the fever, that the
doctor, during his visit, spoke in his usual blunt
way to Lisette of her affairs, questioning her as to
how she meant to live in the future, and many
other kindly-meant inquiries ; to all of which the
invalid answered fretfully, " She didn't know,"
evincing such perfect unconcern as to the future
that the physician deemed it best to acquaint her
with the true state of affairs.

Lisette listened with her usual weary langour
at first, but when she at length roused herself to
comprehend the true state of affairs, it was pitiful
to see her helplessness and despair.

Why could she not go back to her old work ? "
she asked, almost fiercely.

The doctor's answer was to bid her walk across
the room. With a flush of excitement which told
of a powerful effort of will, she dragged herself
up from the couch where she lay, and went to do
his bidding. But, alas ! she over-calculated her

strength ; scarcely had she taken half-a-dozen
steps than there came that dull pain in her back
she had felt so often before, the room seemed to
swim round her ; she staggered, and only saved
herself from falling by catching hold of a chair.
This experiment at least was a sufficient answer
to her question, but it lead to a far more dangerous
one  one which the doctor had long
dreaded.

Hitherto Lisette had, as I have said, evinced
not the slightest interest in life whatever ; one
would almost have imagined, from the utter unconcern
she had about everything that has
triumphed over death, she was content merely
to live in the sense of breathing, and nothing
more. Now she suddenly sat up on the battered
old sofa, which Mrs Spicer, by dint of bribery,
had been induced to add to the scanty furniture
of the room, pushed her hair back off her forehead,
seeming to note for the first time that it
was not half so abundant as before she had
been taken ill, passed her hands wonderingly
across her face, and then looking up suddenly,
said, "Am I different  since 1 have been ill, I
mean ? You said I had a scar  a scar  what is
it? Is it  with a sudden strange look in her
eyes as she scanned the doctor's countenance 
is it something that will show  a mark  is
it?"

And again her hands travelled over her features
with nervous eagerness.

Off his guard by the action and tone, a pitying

look crept into the doctor's eyes, and in a moment
Lisette read its meaning.

She sprang to her feet with a startled cry,
holding out her hands with that peculiar gesture
of entreaty which had so often charmed Jerry.

It is a scar. I can feel it, and I can see by
your face I am different. Oh, let me see, please
let me see."

Long since, on some trivial pretence, the doctor
had hidden away an old cracked looking-glass
which hung on the wall over the make-shift fora
dressing-table, but now he knew it was time
the glass should be brought from its hiding-place.
Hesitation would mean suspense to the girl, and
who could not guess how painful that would be?

Look at yourself? Of course you can. There's
a sure sign you'll be yourself soon when the vanity
begins to show itself. I had a patient once who,
when she was dying, let go her husband's hand
to put her hair straight, and died with a curl
twisted round her finger. Just like women, they
always," etc. So the doctor ran on, while he made
a pretence of looking for something, which he
kuew very well was close at baud, trying hard to
make himself out a veritable woman-hater because
of the vanity of the softer sex ; but when he found
the mirror under a pile of rubbish in the corner,
where no one would have dreamt of looking save
he who put it there, why did he make a great
show of rubbing up its surface by breathing on it
and rubbing it with his sleeve, or rather making a
pretence to do the latter, for when he at length

held out the glass to Lisette, it was still dull with
his breath.

Now he said, very gruffly even for him, " It's no
use your trying to recognise your likeness in such
a glass as this ; it might as well be a piece of
block tin ; besides, your imprisonment in this hole
isn't calculated to bring roses to your cheeks,
and  "

I know, I know " interrupted Lisette, almost
snatching away the glass, and turning to the light
with a feverish eagerness which was almost pain-
ful. A moment she bent over it, then it fell from
her hands to the floor with a hollow sound as it
rattled in its wooden frame, and, with a cry of
pain, like that of a wounded animal, she hid her
face in the cushions on the couch.

The doctor had seen such a scene often before,
had stood by while strong men had bemoaned the
cruel fate which had made them henceforth feel as
though they must shun the gaze of their fellow-creatures,
had heard their cries of resentfulness ;
but there was something so indescribably pitiful
in this mute agony that he had no words of any
sort at his command.

He waited till presently it seemed to him he
could not break the silence. This was no sickness
such as he could heal, so stole silently, noiselessly,
out of the room and down the creaking stairs.
At the foot of the stairs the doctor met Sarah,
as usual laden with brooms, dust-pans, and boxes,.
and such like implements of torture for cleaning.
Evidently there was something in his face which

was unusual, for she came to a dead standstill in
front of him, essayed to express her astonishment,
as was her usual habit, by clasping her hands,
an endeavour which resulted in the downfall of
several of the said implements with a clatter to
the ground, as she said, in an awe-struck whisper,
*' Lor', sir, whatever is it % "

What's what % " asked the doctor, with a
fierceness which was fatal to the rest of the
brooms  *' what's what % "

Why, you're a-looking  oh, just awful  as if
you'd seen, oh, I don't know what." Sarah's
modes of expression were not very intelligible
sometimes. " She ain't worse, is she ? Oh, lor', I
do hope she ain't. She drank some of that broth
I made her, unbeknown to missus ; perhaps it ain't
agreed with her ; perhaps it was too strong."

The said broth had been inspected and tasted
by the doctor, who had pronounced it to be the
most magnificent compound of colouring and
warm water he had ever tasted, but the fact of
it having been made by Sarah's hands  I can
hardly call them fair  gave him a sudden idea.

If ever a girl was in want of a friend, it was
the little German rider, crying her eyes out because
of the sad tale the looking-glass told. This
big, stolid slavey he had often, when coming to
pay his visits, found lingering outside the top
single front door, always shuffling away at his
approach, sometimes have some business in the
hall at his departure, and pausing to ask, in her
shame-faced way, " How do you think she is up

there % " as though possessed of the idea that his
visit had made some material change in his patient.

Hitherto, however, it would appear that the
presence of the nurse had had an overawing effect
upon the girl, for the moment the house had been
freed of her, this clumsy, awkward creature had
made offers of help on behalf of the invalid.

The episode of the broth had made the physician
feel somewhat sarcastically inclined towards
the maker, but now, in the girl's unconscious earnestness,
he fancied he recognised a kindly soul
beneath the not very prepossessing exterior.

Some people might have laughed at the idea of
a friendship between little Lisette and this queer
girl, but Dr Woodward knew it was no time topick
and choose, even if by a more studied selection
his choice would have been more beneficial
to those concerned.

Lisette wanted a friend  here was one close at
hand, who, if circumstances told truly, was only
too ready and willing to fill the office.

How, when there were so many steps between
lier dominion below and that of the invalid up in
the sky, she had been daily aware of anything
more than the top-front lodger's existence, was a
mystery he did not stay to solve.

He only coughed meditatively once or twice
while buttoning up his coat  uncertain how to
act  whether to tell Sarah of the thoughts he
had in his mind, or to drop a word of meaning and
leave it to work as it might.

Remembrance of the many times she had so

often shuffled out of his way, as though ashamed
of having betrayed any interest, however, decided
him.

"How is it," he said suddenly, looking across
into her face, " that I so often find you at work
on the stairs when I come? You're up to no
good, I'll be bound, wasting your time. I hope
you're not waiting for an opportunity to make
something out of that poor little thing upstairs 
because I've got my eyes open."

At this accusation, which might have staggered
a far more unscrupulous soul than Sarah, the girl
only pushed her hair back off her face with a look
of stolid defiance, which was more intelligible than
her protest.

You can think what you likes ; I knows better
this once."

The girl was so used to being attacked on the
score of her honesty, and not without cause, for
she had been picked up from the gutter by her
present mistress  herself no very choice specimen
of humanity  that there was no mistaking the
pride with which she, for once, rested on the fact
of her innocence.

Dr Woodward was not slow to perceive this,
and changed his tactics accordingly.

There," he said, appealing to an imaginary
audience, ** that's always the way with you girls ;
never will own you've got a kindly thought about
anybody ; try to make yourselves out as bad as 
as your mistresses. I wonder you aren't ashamed
of yourselves. Where's the harm, I should like to

know, if you, Jane  not Sarah  isn't it, do feel as
if you'd like to help one of your fellow-creatures
a bit ? Don't she want it bad enough ? I've
done all I can, but I can't do more ; as it is, I ought
to be in a dozen different places this minute, and
I've got to leave this girl now to get on as best
she can. I know it sounds hard  so it is  when
a man spends his health and strength in bringing
a poor soul back from the grave, he must bea
brute beast if, as soon as she's got enough life
in her to know what it is she's suffering and got
to suffer, he doesn't feel as if that poor creature, if
she hasn't got any one else, somehow belongs to
him. 'Isn't often it happens  most folks lava
somebody to care for them and see after them a
bit, but this girl hasn't  not a single one. At the
show when I went there wasn't one as could
say much, for fear, I believe, of the master, but
they'd their duties  just as I have mine  and so
this girl has to struggle on alone as best she can.
Lord ! I've tried to do my duty by her, but perhaps
it 'd been kinder to let her go. Death's
mighty easy work when one looks at it beside
what we have to go through in life. But there,
I mustn't talk of dying, though after all it mayn't
be long she's got to trouble even to live. What
I think of is, how she is going to get on at all
alone up there. She's only a child, and this work
has pulled her down awfully. If she'd only someone
who'd help her to bear it a bit ; even if Mrs-spiced
give her a hand like she did you when
you were just as put about  not but what you've
VOL. III. B

paid for her bit of trouble by this time  it might
te the saving of her, body and soul. If only any
one's be willing  it isn't half as hard work as
being a general servant, though the pay's different.
If any one 'd be willing and help her to bear it,
it 'd be worth all the medicine put together that
I could give her."

The doctor paused, drawing on his gloves with
great precision ; Sarah stood dusting the bannisters
with her greasy apron, and scraping the
wooden stair with the toe of her ragged boot in a
way which put her listener's teeth on edge.

Ain't there nobody as 'd do  leastways 'd try
for a bit % " she asked abruptly.

Well," returned the doctor, smiling down most
benignly at a refractory button of his glove,
" there is some one, but she's got so much to do
already, I don't like to impose upon her kindness."

This last sentence told visibly upon Sarah. She
left off dusting, but scraped with renewed vigour,
till the doctor's nerves fairly danced in his body ina
manner totally unbefitting those of a well-bred
respectable surgeon.

Do I know who it is ?" she asked, even more
abruptly.

"Who? This somebody I alluded to? Oh,
yes ; she's a friend of yours."

I ain't got no friends," said Sarah, her face
falling suddenly, her dull brain failing to take in
the doctor's meaning.

'* Yes, you have," returned the doctor, with much
assurance; *rand this friend of yours is just the

sort of friend wanted up there," with a motion
towards his patient's room above.

'but supposing she"  also with a motion in
that direction  " supposing she don't like it.
'Ain't always the ladies as can afford to rent the
parlours. Afore she was took ill I seed her going
in and out sometimes, and if any one 'd ask me
where I'd have put her, it wouldn't have been a
step higher than the first-floor front."

Taking this figurative language to mean that it
was a sense of being her inferior by the (again
figuratively speaking) unlimited distance which
intervenes between the upper and lower regions
of the house, which was the reason of Sarah's
uneasiness, Dr Woodward was somewhat in a
dilemma how to smooth away the difficulty.

Like a wise man, he decided to let it alone ;
aware, too, that he had already wasted far more
time on this mission than he could really afibrd, he
planted his well-worn beaver over his bald head,
and said, in his most business-like manner, *' Just
as if it matters when folks are in trouble, whether
they live in the kitchen or in the drawing-room.
All I know is, this girl wants some one to help her
to bear this trouble, and there's some one could doit
if she liked."

Without another word he hastened down the
stairs, and banged the door behind him.

For some moments after he had turned the end
of the street, and had forgotten his late argument
in a far more important one, in which he was
trying to decide whether it would be better fora

certain burly carpenter among this patients to-hop
through life on one leg, or run the risk of ina
short time departing for the next one with one
whole and one battered one, the "slavey" stood
industriously completing the destruction of her
boots by scraping them alternately on the
stairs.

In this interesting operation she was disturbed
by the usual dispelled of both her waking and
sleeping dreams, the shrill call of " Sarah I Sarah!"
followed by the usual running accompaniment of
angry grumbling. Obedient to this admonition,,
the girl collected one by one, with her usual slowness
of movement, her brooms and brushes, and
knocking their several handles against the bannisters
at every step, which roused in the minds
of several of Mrs Spicer's lodgers the idea that
for their special torment their landlady had hired
some one to perform a clog dance on the stairs, she
slowly returned to her work.

Her interview with the doctor had taken place
late in the morning, and it was not till late in the
afternoon that, on any pretext whatever, she could
make her escape from the lower realms and ascend
to those above.

When, however, she did so, any one to have-watched
her stealing as quietly as her ungainly
body would let her, up the stairs  pausing now
and then to make sure that no enemy was aware
of her movements  might easily have believed
that the doctor's lately uttered suspicions were
not unfounded.

Up she went, doing her very utmost to avoid a
noise, but even then not escaping more than one
violent collision with one or two objects which
came in her way, until at length she reached the
door leading into the sick chamber, at which,
drawn as the strong and healthy sometimes are
by an irresistible impulse to inquire after the
welfare of those who had so lately been like ourselves,
she had so often lingered. Even now,
after her timid knock had been answered by a low
"Come in," she paused and drew back timidly
more than once before apparently she could screw
up enough courage to take the final step  namely,
into the room.

At length, however, she pushed open the door,
knocking her elbows against it and the post, and
entered.

During her ascent she had held with much care
the corners of her coarse apron in one hand, as
though it contained something precious, seemingly
in the shape of a ball, which rolled about from
corner to corner at each of her bungling movements,
while from time to time a faint squeak
made itself heard.

Having entered the room, Sarah stood for at
least five minutes, blinking and winking in the
darkness like a great big owl.

When her eyes had got used to the darkness
she saw Lisette lying in almost the same attitude
as when the doctor had left her, crying no longer,
but sitting looking with red swollen eyes out of
the window.

Is that you, Mrs Spicer ? " she asked, hardly
troubling to turn her head.

No ; 'ain't the missus ; it's me."

Even the fact of having such an unexpected
visitor did not rouse her curiosity. Without
evincing the slightest interest she waited for what
was to come next, apparently totally indifferent
to what it was.

This reception was certainly a very chilling
one, and every moment that flew by saw Sarah
getting more and more confused and uncertain
what to do. How heartily did she wish she had
never been induced to undertake the mission 
that she was back again in the region of pots
and pans.

Whatever was she to say or do? After repeating
this question over and over again ta
herself with such energy that she gave herself
no time for a reply, at last she made a step
forward. This movement did not mend matters,
for not, of course, troubling to look where she was
going, she planted her foot right in the centre of
the mirror, which still lay on the ground, with a
natural result that she, being by no means fairy
in form or weight, the glass was smashed to, if
not the proverbial thousand pieces, yet quite
sufficient to render it fit only for the sustain.


Oh, lors'' said Sarah, ruefully regarding the
shattered fragments, " I've done it this time," not
intending to imply that she had attempted the
destruction of the said glass on any former

occasion, but merely that the mishap was quite
in accordance with her luck.

The movement of despair which accompanied
this assertion was so violent that a more than
usually loud and prolonged squeal made itself
heard from the depth of her apron.
This endued her with an idea.
Without more ado she plunged both her hands
in among the said apron's greasy folds, from
whence she produced what appeared to be a roll
of dirty-looking white wool.

This she regarded with great amusement, then
making another step forward, less disastrous than
the first, poked it with great energy into Lisette's
lap.

I thought you might like to see one of the
cat's new kittens. Don't keep it if you don't
want to, but the doctor said you was lonely like,
so I thought it might be a bit of company."

Before she could say more, the never-failing cry
of " Sarah I Sarah ! " made itself heard, and for
once not sorry for its interruption, she turned and
retreated backwards out of the room, and, evidently
to atone for her care in her journey
up, made a doubly noisy descent, reaching the
kitchen with a memento of her errand in the
shape of a zig-zag tear in her apron, and a still
more lasting one  a big black bruise on her forehead,
which, in her precipitous retreat, had come
in contact with the corner of the hat-stand in
the hall.
Meanwhile, in the room near the sky, Lisette

had been a little frightened at first to find the
pall in her lap was alive. She tried to shake it
on to the floor, but it clung to her hand, flew up
hier sleeve, and nestled in her neck, and before
she quite knew how, there was a soft, furry little
kitten, with the biggest of blue eyes, whirring
and purring in an infantine, spasmodic way under
her chin.

Who could resist such a messenger of comfort?
Certainly not poor full-hearted little Lisette.

Although the tears did not come, there was a
breach made in the barrier of iron which was
round her heart, as, clasping her hands over the
funny little ball of wool, she hid her face in it,
the face which had so startled her when she had
seen it in the glass, and somehow felt as if the
world and life was not so dreary after all.

Later on in the day, when Sarah made her
escape once more, and went bungling into the
room, she found the sick girl with the kitten
curled up on her lap, while she languidly turned
over the bag which contained some of her belongings.


She did not, however, seem inclined to talk, for
silence with her was such a habit it was hard to
get out of it, so Sarah set to work with unnecessary
energy to sweep up the remains of the glass,
making an abnormal amount of noise and dust in
the operation.

This done, she stood with her arms akimbo,
regarding the invalid and the kitten with great
stolidity.

You'll keep her, I suppose," she said suddenly,
alluding, of course, to the latter.

Yes," said Lisette, awakening to the fact that
she must say something. " Yes, please. It was
good of you to bring her for me."

Lor' bless you, I'd have saved the whole lot
if I'd have known it'd please you. There was
four of them. Missus, when she found 'em in the
clothes basket, said, ' Take 'em down and drown
'em,' but I thought as how maybe you'd like one,
so I saved the littlest. It's a mercy I didn't kill
it bringing it up, things do get in the way so.
But there, they say cats has got nine lives 
though it do seem strange such a * weeny' thing
should have such a lot, and us folks only one. It
is a * weeny ' thing, isn't it % "

Whatever might be the literal meaning of this
adjective, Lisette did not attempt to dispute the
fact, but roused herself sufficiently to offer her
thanks for the service. And with a few more
remarks of a like nature to those usually volunteered
by the servant girl, the interview ended.

But unpromising as it had been, the acquaintance
thus commenced from that time certainly
progressed.

Naturally, considering the circumstances, it was
hardly likely any startling manifestation of friendship
should be made. Lisette, though she hugged
the kitten to her and whispered her sorrows into
its funny little ears, was too tightly held by that
iron band round her heart to make any great
sign, and Sarah's time was never really her own ;

it was only by stealing a few moments now and
then that she was able to introduce her big figure
into the dreary little attic, where, more often than
not, before she had got over the fit of shyness
which for some seconds after her entrance kept
her staring at the sick girl as though she had
been some sort of natural curiosity, there would
come that call of " Sarah ! Sarah ! " and she would
have to blunder down the stairs again without
having uttered so much as one word.

But though their intercourse was of such a
piecemeal nature, it was better than nothing, and
if Sarah took more delight in the little offices sh
performed than did Lisette, at least the invalid's
personal comfort was looked after, even if the
healing of her mind, as the doctor had hoped,,
did not begin.

As we know, Sarah's intentions were better far
than her actions. She had not even the power
of saying coherently what she felt, and when weare
in trouble we are too apt to think of what
others might do for us, without calculating what
little they in reality do.

A white kitten, too, is not a very substantial
form of comfort, and in this case there was a dash
of melancholy in the pleasure which Lisette took
in the servant-girl's offering.

Not many days after it first came into her possession
she discovered it was blind. The blue
eyes, which she thought were so beautiful, had
over them a white film, which, alas ! made them
pretty to see not to see with.

On making; the discovery, Sarah had wished to
award to the afflicted animal the same fate as that
which she had bestowed upon its three unhappy
brethren, wishing to supply its place with one of
a large family lately presented by a tabby to a
near neighbour.

To this, however, Lisette would not consent.

It might have been that her love for the poor
little beast had sprung up the moment it had
been poked into her lap on that memorable day,,
but I think there was a queer fancy in her heart
that made her cling to it all the more because it
was denied the use of its eyes, and, therefore,,
could never know what its mistress was like.

Poor foolish child! little did she know how
often brute beasts are more sagacious in their
likings than human beings, never judging their
masters or mistresses by their outer man.

Anyhow the " weeny " little thing was fairly
installed in the top front attic as Lisette's pet
and plaything.

But, as I have said, a kitten is not a very substantial
form of comfort, and to the little German
girl life seemed very dreary indeed,  as though
she was without a friend near her,  as though it
would have been far more kind of those who had
tended her in her sickness to have let her die.

How many of us during our struggle in the
world think the same, and yet we have all to
live.

So Lisette found it. Her little store was so
low, it seemed but a few shillings lay between

her and beggary. These she eked out as best
she could, but even while she prayed to die, she
felt she must make some effort to keep body and
soul together.

At first, as with many like her, the task seemed
hopeless, then fortune favoured her in the shape
of the projected wedding of the parlour lodger.

This lady, a widow of uncertain years, it so
happened, needed a little help in some needlework
she had undertaken. By means of a stray
word from Sarah, Lisette learnt this fact, and with
as much eagerness as she evinced in anything
now, offered her services.

Being quite a novice in such matters, she left
the question of terms to the widow, who proved
her claim to any amount of gratitude by naming
half the sum any ordinary seamstress would have
asked. Lisette, however, dared not refuse the
straw held out, and so the days went by seeing
her not growing one jot less frail or sickles nay,
even losing strength while she slaved with aching
head and weary fingers for pay which she could
once have easily earned by the Hight, easy work
of a rider.

Early and late, early and late, with weary
frame she carried on the outward struggle, early
and late, whether she would or no, went on that
other fearful struggle in her weary mind, the warring
between good and evil.

Daily now that question, " Where will it end ? "
was in her mind. Before it had only been in
reference to weariness of soul, now the not more

terribly but doubly pressing demand was on her,
the wants and needs of her body. These must
be attended to and striven for, and to one in
Lisette's position the striving was doubly hard
for the reason that the very effort was not
prompted by her own wish, because of that double
weakness which had fallen so suddenly upon her.

And when one's will is not strong enough to
pray for strength, because every moment brings its
pain, there is little wonder that instead of rising
step by step higher and higher we sink lower and
lower.

It seemed to Lisette as if to any further depth
she could not go. Utterly alone and friendless in
the big city, suffering from a weakness which
made every movement painful to her, grieving
because of the remembrance of that strange, fearful
face which had looked at her from out the
mirror, her whole life seemed wrecked by the
hope in which she had trusted so implicitly.

Poor little stranger, it was truly pitiful. How
often when she sat alone in her bare, cheerless
room would the thoughts rush in such a stream
into her mind, that she would clench her fingers
over her burning forehead to try and stay them.
How often, when her head was bent over the
work, which recalled wedding bells to her mind
and the bright pictures of what might have beene
needle would be hidden from her sight by a
dull mist over her eyes, and presently her face
would be hidden in her thin white hands, through
which the hot scalding tears would trickle slowly

down, and fall one by one on the soft ball of fur
curled up in her lap.

These tears came not in a great bursting torrent,
such as would have calmed and refreshed
Tier, but in that slow rotation which told they
were wrung from a heart full to bursting.

Even the fountain of these was dried as time
wore on, and in its place came a new sensation
rather than a feeling strange and terrible.

Hitherto Lisette had looked upon her solitude
in that dreary little room near the sky as a heaven-sent
boon  a hiding-place, such as it was  just
what she felt in need of.

Now, however, as the time wore on, almost
without knowing how, a change came over her
ideas.

The hiding-place was such no longer, but a
prison in which her young life, which had once
been so bright, was to flicker and flicker, like a
burnt-out candle in its socket, till by-and-by, with
no one to know, no one to care, the feeble light
should die out altogether.

It is often the case that those who have longed
for death when they have been in the midst of life,
or, at any rate when, with some straw to hold onto,
have shrunk from it with fear and trembling
when they stand alone to face it.

Yes, that was the feeling with Lisette. When
the doctor had fought her battle for her she had
resisted ; but now she was left with " no one
scarcely to know  no one to care," it all seemed
so fearful.

"No one to know  no one to care!" Over
and over again to herself she repeated the
thought, till by-and-by there came over her that
strange, awful feeling  that dread of being alone
a sudden fear of her own thoughts  a hungry
longing for company  for some event to break the
dreadful monotony of never-ending moments  a
monotony which was like a grim dark shadow
which daily, hourly grew more impenetrable, more
dense, until it seemed it would close entirely
round her, and shut her in for ever from this world.

And then when the gloom was so great there
came a ray of hope like a broad sunbeam streaming
into a darkened room.

She heard a voice calling her back from the
terrors which were dragging her down, down,
she knew not where. She felt strong arms folding
her shrunken form in' their stronghold, and
an honest face looking down at her with eyes
that did not turn away from her because of the
little there was left to know her as her former
self, eyes which grew soft and tender with love and
pity.

"I LOVED HIM SO."

And so Jerry's long, weary search was at an end
yes, the search, but not the struggle.

What he had imagined would be the end of all
his troubles, the finding of Lisette, was in reality a
sudden darkening of the brightness of the future-which
he had planned for himself  a future in
which he was to be content with knowing that
she he loved was happy and well cared for.

How different was the actual fact. Lisette
friendless, not many steps from death's
door, with scarcely strength to live in the present
shrinking fearfully from any thoughts of what was
to come.

If ever a brave heart sickened, it was Berry's
when he fully realised the greatness of the poor
girl's desolation, and the fierce battle which she
had been left to fight alone.

And all the while he had pictured her at least
well in health, and with the means to live, praying
his inmost heart that the cruel burden which
had been so suddenly laid upon her frail shoulders

might one day be removed, and she become the
happy, hight-hearted gh'l he had once known her.
And while he was absent from her, bearing his
part in the fight against unselfishness and disappointed
hope as best he could, she, instead of
traversing calmly the path which should lead to
peace and joy once more, was sinking  sinking,
slowly but surely, down the dark, yawning gulf of
despair and helplessness.

We know that the young clown had been no
laggard in his efforts to find her, but how often,
when he found how much his coming was needed,
did he reproach himself for even the little time he
had dallied on his journey.

Every moment he had wasted had added one
more to those of bitterest suffering which had
already passed over the bowed head of her he
loved.

Had he only known this, not day or night would
he have rested until he was at her side  that was
the thought which dimmed the tempered joy of
the meeting ; and when he realised that perhaps
even had he had wings wherewith to reach her
he might have been too late, he felt a leaden
weight fall upon his heart, so that he could scarce
bring himself to release the slight form from his
clasping arms, fearing lest, after all, his coming
might be of little use to raise the drooping flower
from where it had fallen among the dirt and
ashes of bitterness and sorrow, and plant it once
more in the sunlight of happiness and strength.
When Lisette at length drew herself away he
VOL. m.

suddenly recalled bis scattered senses, and, taking
a seat a little away from her, prepared to listen to
her story.

He would, perhaps, have preferred to have
waited a little before bearing it, to have bad a
little time to recover himself; but be thought,
and rightly too, that it would be a relief to the
girl to tell some one her troubles ; and at present
so much was totally inexplicable to him that he
gave himself up to listen patiently.

So there in the darkened room the poor little
girl poured out her tale of sorrow. It was well
for Jerry that his face was, like everything else
in the room, in shadow, so that the expressions
which flitted across it were hidden from the brown
eyes which peered so wearily in his direction.

When the tale was finished he did not speak
for some minutes. How could he, with the big
lump in his throat, making it almost impossible
for him to keep from choking, while the tears were
slowly welling from his eyes and trickling down
his rough cheeks on to his yellow coat, one falling
on the beautiful crimson necktie and putting to
shame the bit of glass which served for a diamond
in the wonderful pin.

Presently, however, he managed to master ibis
agitation. Clearing his throat with a loud cough,
he muttered something about having a cold, which
lie must have caught very quickly, as we know he
was in excellent condition when he entered the
room. This little farce over, he gave his necktie
a savage tug to restore it to ts right position,

performing the same act with such violence that
he nearly strangled himself ; ran his hands
through his hair, thereby disturbing the excellent
order to which it had been reduced by the application
of several ounces of that far-famed pomatum
known as "bear's grease," and smelling uncommonly
like ordinary, or rather extraordinarily rank
dripping; while, at the same time, from sheer
force of habit he began whistling softly the tune,
I think, of a favourite comic song of the day 
hardly appropriate to the occasion, but exactly in
accordance with his strange ways.

This, however, he soon cut short, and rising to
his feet  he always said what he had got to say
better when he was standing  also sheer force of
habit, I suppose  began in his blundering way to
try and convey the sympathy he felt.

Of course, he (mly succeeded in giving utterance
to the most commonplace sentiments, such as
sounded but cold and stiff in comparison to the
pitiful tale he had so lately heard. But, you see,
he wasn't a hero in a melodrama, with a marvellous
amount of grand heroic sentences ready on
his lips, in which to extol his own valour, his love
for his lady-love, and his defiance of any ills,
mortal or immaterial. He was merely an ordinary
I may say a very ordinary  young man, who,
although gifted in public with a faculty for saying
the right thing at the right moment, in private he
was anything but ready with his tongue.

On this occasion, particularly, he was even more
than usually reticent. I think the fact was that

he had so raauy thoughts in his head that not 
them could find its way out.

If he had at that moment happened on a big"
boy teasing or in any way ill-treating a smaller
one, I fancy it would have gone rather hard with
the bully.

The relief which this outward expression of his
feelings would have been to him was immense.

Unfortunately, however, he was alone in that
dreary room without anything liable near him
the consequence of which rush of subdued excitement
to his brain  a matter of very unusual occurrence
with him  was a species of rental paralysis
at once dangerous and prejudicial to the
cause in hand.

Although not usually by any means accounted
a hard swearer, at that particular moment it
would have been no little relief to him to have
used some hard words against certain people and
circumstances. But even this tiny safety valve
was shut for him.

Somehow he could not let off the steam in this
manner before Lisette. The illustration did not
occur to him, but I verily believe he would as
soon have thought of speaking of the place of
everlasting darkness in the presence of an angel
fresh from the realms of eternal day as of using
any but polite language while that white wan
face looked at him across the gloom.

Polite language meant with Jerry just the very
most ordinary he could possibly use, and in such
he expressed his sympathy with his little friend



language which, I fear, was anything but calculated
to pour balm on a wounded heart.

I make this confession because I do not wish
that troublesome person of the name of Jerry to
sail under false colours. I know the light in
which he appears to my reader is anything but
the rosy one to which his position in this story
entitles him, but I gave warning at the beginning
how it would be, so do not lay the fault at his
door, but at mine, if he falls short of pleasing.
Perhaps Lisette may appear to have been rather
open in her expressions of joy at his coming;
but when he had appeared so suddenly before
Tier, she had forgotten all else but that here at
last was some one who would befriend her in her
trouble.

In her greeting there had been no under-current
of feeling. She was glad to see him because he
was some one to help her. She would have
welcomed, I believe, any one with that quality
just as eagerly.

It was not until she felt his arms round her, his
lips brush her cheek, his voice calling her "Not to
be afraid, he was there, he would never leave her,
never forsake her," did she realise how truly she
had found help at last.

So fraught with consolation was the thought,
that she never stayed to put any second meaning
to the words.

Why should she?

To her it seemed that the lamp of love in her
life had completely gone out ; she did not dream

that Jeny, her funny, awkward friend, should
ever have thought of rekindling it.

To her he was a friend; she did not even then
know that he was the very friend of all others she
would most have cared to have come to her in
her distress ; she thought it was merely by some
lucky chance that he had come and found her
when she seemed lost for ever, had been so
touched by the change in her that he had treated
her as he would a sister, put his arms round her,,
cried with her, kissed her and spoken words of
pity and comfort to her such as only a kind
brotherly heart could have dictated.

It was but natural that she should take this
view of the matter, for their relations prior to
the entrance of the ring-master on to the scene
had been of the simplest and most easy kind.

We know how he had taken the little stranger
under his Having at first from pity, but how was
she to tell how long since the pity had grown
into the tenderer feeling %

He had never told her, and she was too occupied
in the demolition of her own fairy castle to notice
how high his was building.

She was too much of a child yet in the world's
ways to know that it is not always those who
say the most that mean the most. Even her
late experience of how little truth a glib tongue
can tell had not begun to bear its fruits.

Jerry need not have pulled himself up so short,
for she was totally unaware of any material change
in his manner, being only too contented to know

that he was there, without entering into any
question of why or wherefore. If afterwards she
recalled to mind what had happened, it was
not till then that she was aware that anything
was amiss.

But if Jerry could not show his real feelings bywords,
he did so in a far better way, in deeds.

That evening, after he had left Lisette in her
new frame of mind to look forward to a better
and more restful night than formerly  hopes
however, doomed to be disappointed when he
reached home, or rather what was then his home
he did not go to bed at once, but sat some time
trying to map out a plan for the future.

Now that the momentary excitement of the
meeting was over, there was no part of it so
present to his mind as that cry which he had
listened to in the darkness, the dreaming appeal to
the absent lover whose faithlessness had not yet
killed the love he had so wantonly flung away.

No matter how fervent had been her greeting
to her friend who had found her in such sore
trouble, above it all rose that soul-stirring entreaty
to Carl to come back and to love her.

Try as he would, Jerry could not drown it in
his ears. It struck the last blow to the hope in
his heart. Beneath it the last cherished straw
to which he had clung lay buried. Henceforth
the light of his love, ah-lady dwindled down to
such a tiny flame, had gone out.

Yes, but the lamp of friendship was still at hand,
and never before had it needed trimming so much.

It seemed as if the task of this frail, helpless
creature had been cast upon him to try the strength
of his self-reliance. It remained to him whether
he was faithful to his trust or no.

So, although he had resolutely declared this
girl was "nothing to him," he nevertheless set
about making what plans he could for her benefit.

Of one thing he was certain. She must not
remain where she was. The very atmosphere of
the attic was such as to destroy any likelihood of
recovery.

She must be removed, and that at once, to a
more healthy situation. This at least would be
one step in the right direction.

Having settled this, he retired to rest, not I
am bound to say to enjoy any better repose than
did Lisette, for, for ever in his ears rang that
cry, " Carl, Carl, I has loved you so. I shall die
if you do not love me." Late the following
morning he paid Lisette a visit. Seeing her in
the light of the morning was far different to doing
so in the gloom of the evening before.

He could scarce keep himself from breaking out
into the expressions of sympathy which he had
suppressed the night before.

It was only because he knew how they would
pain her that he was kept from so doing.

But the sight of her white wan face, so different
from the rounded one he had last seen it, above
all, that scar which told such a double tale of
suffering, touched his rough heart till it was full
to bursting. The wound had to all appearance

l)een a fearful one, and showed all the more
clearly upon the pallid features like a dull crimson
stain.

It ran down the low forehead, only by a miracle
escaping the right eye, trailing off just below
the ear to the back of the neck. It showed all
the more plainly because the pretty brown curls
which Jerry had been wont to admire so much
were all gone, partly burnt away, the rest sacrificed
by the doctor's scissors in the height of the
fever. Only a few scanty clipped locks were left,
which were but insufficient to hide the cruel
marks. But painful as was the change from the
once pretty bright face of the little fancy-rider,
such that none but loving eyes could have recognised
in the weary, helpless invalid, the gay
Fay of Fire, Jerry thought not so much of the
loss of beauty as the evidence the change gave
of the bitter struggle which had been gone
through.

When Lisette saw his eyes full of pity as they
were fastened upon her, she turned the scarred side
of her face away from the light, as if she could not
bear even him to look upon it, and said something
in a low voice about having had a bad
night, as if in excuse for her tired looks.

Jerry withdrew his gaze suddenly, recalling
that cry of '* Carl, Carl," which had kept sleep from
his eyes, rest from his mind, and wondered whether
it had been a repetition of it which had been
wrung from the weary soul and driven away the
peace of the night.

But it was nothing to do with him, if such had
been the case. It was the body he had taken
into his charge  the soul he left in higher hands.

He therefore made his proposition about a
change of lodging.

Lisette replied she was quite contented where
she was. If only he would come and see her
sometimes, and if he could help her to get work,,
she wanted nothing else.

All those who have had anything to do with
a sick person, or rather one recovering from a
sickness, know what a hard battle it is to fight
against complete despondency ; when all desire
save to be left alone, to live on as best they can
which, translated, means to die as soon as
human nature has got down to the lowest ebb 
seems to have fled away, leaving only a poor
remnant of what had once been a being full of
hope and love of life. The shadows which had
crowded into the troubled mind, the growth of
many days of bitter pain and loneliness, were not
to be driven away at once by one breath of gladness.


The excitement of Jerry's coming having worn
olF in the hours of suffering in the long weary
night, there was that usual sinking back into the
darkness, which is ten times more difficult to
overcome than the late violent despair.

Even the longing which she had before felt for
some friend to come to her in her trouble, seemed,
now that it was satisfied, to have been but an
empty one.

The friend she longed for would not, could not,,
come. What, then, was the use of any amount
of kindness from any one else %

No doubt this was a selfish view of the matter,.
but it is not at first that lessons of pain and
suffering show fruit.

Besides, it must be remembered that Lisette
knew nothing of the love Which she was trampling
so remorselessly under foot, and never knew how
many a thoughtless word at her own helplessness
was a wound in the brave heart which sought sa
hardly to bear her burden for her.

As plainly as if she spoke she said, " Leave
me alone ; I want no one to care for me, since
he to Avhom I gave all I had to give loves me
not. I care not what becomes of me. Leave
me to myself." But Jerry was not to be so
soon defeated.

Although he did not again repeat what he had
said yesterday,  " Now that I have found you I will
never let you go," he let his actions speak for him.

Without attempting to discuss the plans he
had made, he gradually drew from the girl a
clearer statement of her affairs than she had given,
the night before, and soon found that, as he had
suspected, poverty was the one bar to any step
in the right direction towards health.

"Only that?" he said, when Lisette frankly
told him the little she possessed in the world.
*' Why, it is not enough to keep you as you
should be kept for a week."

It will have to do for many days more than

that. And I have my Avork. I was counting to
have finished it last night, but you came, and it is
yet to do."

Jerry wondered whether she regretted his
coming.

The work is not like riding," he said.

Lisette's face fell suddenly.

This work with the needle like riding ! No,
no, indeed ! " And a heavy sigh told the rest.

Jerry blamed himself for his want of tact, and,
bringing the very short interview to a close, departed.
He did not go home, however. Waylaying
Sarah, who was in a high state of curiosity as
to who the stranger was and what his business
could be, he desired her to conduct him into the
presence of her mistress. This being done, a somewhat
stormy meeting ensued, in which, I believe,
the young clown at length vented his pent-up
feelings by favouring the landlady with a pretty
big piece of his mind concerning the rate which
.she charged for her miserable lodgings.

Whatever policy he used, however, the result
of the interview was that Sarah was, after dinner,
desired to get ready a room on the third
floor, which had lately been vacated by a barber's
assistant  I may say forcibly vacated, since that
gentleman was "wanted" by two gentlemen in
uniform, who, as in the childish game of " Nuts
and May," fetched him away in a cab, since which
time nothing had been seen of him. Therefore
Sarah, in the middle of a great cleaning of pots
and pans in her regions, was bidden set to work

and reduce his late apartment to order, Mrs
Spicer superintending the operation, in order, it
seemed, to in her turn vent her spite upon her
unfortunate handmaid.

By the evening the getting-ready process was
completed, and the room pronounced in order.

This fact Sarah, duly commissioned by her mistress,
proceeded to announce to Lisette, who as
usual at that hour was lying on her couch, thinking
sad thoughts, and wondering what was the
use of living if life was such a weary burden.

The sick girl, on receiving the intimation, started
from her reverie, and then imagined that her
friend had at last succumbed under the press of so
much nagging from her mistress. Before she had
time to ask for any explanation, the girl had seized
a whole armful of her belongings and departed
with them downstairs, her passage being accented
by the loud noise made by several articles which she
carried either coming in violent contact with the
wall or being dropped from her arms altogether.

In a few moments she returned, slightly more
black and blue about the elbows than before, and
having " at one fell swoop " gained possession of
the rest of the few belongings of the little fancy-rider,
without so much as deigning a word in answer
to any of the questions put to her, proceeded to
transport them to the lower regions with the
same despatch and result to her ungainly arms.

Lisette was perfectly at a loss to understand
what it could all mean. The only conclusion at
which she could arrive was anything but a pleasant

one. Could it be that Mrs Spicer for some
unknown reason had taken it into her head to
turn her out of doors ? AVhat had she done that
she should deserve it %

In fear and trembling she awaited the return
of Sarah, who, in answer to her timid question 
Sarah even looked unapproachable  burst into a
coarse laugh.

Turn you out ? No, I guess not. You're a-
coming down into the empty on the third floor."

Coming down to the empty on the third floor %
Why, Sarah, it is a fault. I am sure it is a fault.
I have not told Mrs Spicer. I care not to go
there. It is too much. I  "

Before she could go into any further expostulation,
Sarah cut them short by saying shortly, " It
ain't no use for you to say nothing. Seems your
opinion ain't to be asked in the matter. I don't
know nothing about the business. All I can tell
is that in the midst of my a-tidying up downstairs
" (Sarah spent most part of her time in
iidyiug up, but as the other part was spent in
untying, it was hardly to be wondered at that
the effect was scarcely what one would have imagined
it to have been from the indignation
which she expressed at having the operation interrupted),
" in the midst of my a-doing of the
tins and things missus comes and tells me, * The
third-floor empty is to be got ready right off,'
which being done not without as much haggling
as if we were a-getting ready for a wedding, a
spring cleaning, or a funeral, she ses to me, ' Now,

Sarah, just go upstairs and tell that young lady
to be so good as to walk down.' With that she
bounces off downstairs, a-going to make the parlour's
tea, which, being three-and-sixpenny, she
always does herself, and no bad judge of what is
good, either. But there, if she likes to take her
perquisites, it's her own look out. Any way,
you're to come down to the room ; so you'd best
be quick about it, for I don't suppose as how
you'll get down them 'ere stairs alone, and I've
got to go and clear up, though what time I shall
get down this blessed evening is more than I can
say."

At first Lisette refused to stir. She was perfectly
sure there had been some mistake, but so
high was Sarah's dudgeon at being unable to
make her alter her decision, besides being not a
little inconvenienced by being deprived of her
few possessions, that at length she consented to
make the required removal.

Thus when Jerry arrived an hour later, he
found her safely ensconced in the " empty on the
third floor," which was decidedly an improvement
on the garret, which had been her former
lodging. She asked of him a solution of the
enigma, and received in return a short, rather
confused explanation, by which she was given
to understand that hitherto she had been defrauded
of her rights by the redoubtable Mrs
Spicer, who, under a spirited attack from the
young clown, had been induced at last to act
honourably.

Part of this statement at least was true, the
other half, I am bound to say, was supplied by
Jerry's not very brilliant imagination. Hence
the confusion into which he was thrown by having
to deliver it.

Mrs Spicer had, as we know, been acting anything
but fairly by her poor lodger, but she wa
hardly one to make such a concession as would
lead to so great a change in her said lodger's circumstances.
Jerry had won his way partly by
steady determination, partly by a far easier but
rather more costly means.

But this he desired to keep a secret, so merely
explained the matter by saying that he and th
landlady had come to terms, which, in fact, was
just what they had done.

And Lisette was such a child in the ways of
the world that she made no question of the matter,
of which Jerry was exceedingly glad, for, as he
afterwards told himself, his faculty for lying was
very defective, and if he continued in the part he
had taken to himself, he would have to do all in
his power to strengthen the same, or he would
find himself letting out what he had decided must
be kept to himself.

It so happened that Sarah, by one of those
strange ways which servants have of getting
ideas into their heads which no one ever intended
they should have, settled in her own
mind that Jerry was the sick girl's brother.

She had heard enough at odd times from Lisette
to know that the oft-repeated name of Carl referred

to some faithless lover, and, I suppose, deciding in
her own rather ill-regulated brain that no girl who
was apparently so cut up by the loss of one sweetheart
could possibly have a second, she gave it out
to her mistress that Jerry and Lisette were brother
and sister.

The conduct of the relations somewhat tended
to increase this delusion. The former, to begin
with, rarely used any name but Jerry, which, as
the handmaid argued, might be Jerry  anything ;
a most sage conclusion. Added to this, he seemed
to take matters so entirely into his own hands, to
go so boldly to work, to be so open and hearty in
all his dealings, that any other view of his conduct
seemed impossible.

Lisette, too, accepted his protection so quietly,
treated his coming and going with so much indifference.
Everybody knows that to a " slavey "
a sweetheart means any amount of blushes, giggling,
making smart, and the like.

Mrs Spicer might not perhaps have been inclined
to accept Sarah's testimony had it not been
that in the heat of his discussion with her, Jerry,
adopting a way he had got of speaking to himself
of our little heroine, referred to her as his poor
little sister, meaning "in misfortune," which little
slip settled the matter.

When, on the occasion of his first visit, Sarah
announced Jerry's coming to Lisette by poking
her head in at the doorway and saying, " Yer
brother's a-coming ! " if she hoped to ascertain
whether the relationship was a true one or not
VOL. III. D

she saw nothing in the sick girl's manner to upset
her theory.

Lisette only went on with her work slowly,
never so much as raised her eyes or looked up,
saying quietly, 

He said he would come."

Knew he was coming, and never as much as
tried to smarten herself up a bit. Didn't look a
bit glad to see him, and never said anything but
Good evening, Jerry,' when he went in, as if
she'd far rather he'd kept away. That's her
brother, sure enough," cogitated Sarah as she
retired downstairs, where at an early opportunity
she imparted her opinions on the matter to her
mistress.

Mrs Spicer had at first been rather suspicious,
as she phrased it. Hers was a respectable lodge
and " she wasn't going to have any
but respectable people in it," meaning, I suppose,
thereby, any but people who could do as much
villainy as they liked, provided they were not
found out. I am afraid she would have hardly
retired to rest of a night so peacefully had she
overheard a certain conversation which was
carried on by the supposed relations.

Jerry had not meant to say anything about
what he intended to do, but he saw that if
Lisette was inclined to submit quietly to his
guidance, there were others who might think fit
to interfere.

Did you hear what that girl said, Liz ? " he
asked, when he stood up to say good-bye on his

first visit. " She thinks I'm your brother. So
does the old woman. Do you mind if they go on
thinking it % "

He was afraid Lisette might even object to this
title. But she shook her head. The past, the
past, was all she thought of. She never saw the
queer look on the honest ugly face, as Jerry held
her hand for a moment, and paid no special attention
to his low murmured words, " My sister ;
God help me to be a brother to you."

She never knew the solemn vow which those
words contained. And how was the vow kept?
It remains to be seen.

LIBRARY

IIMIUCDOi-rw 

BROTHER AND SISTER.

And so the new era in these two lives began.

There was no fuss, no arranging, not so much
as a word of explanation between them. Each
seemed to fall into the other's plan as readily as
if it was the one of all others to be desired. It
was just as well that it should have been thus, at
least Jerry thought so.

He had fully made up his mind what his duty
was with regard to this frail life cast thus upon
his care, and meant to do it day by day, till he
should reach the end he so much desired, namely,
to restore the little German girl to what she was.

And Lisette let him take matters into his own
hands with only a very slight show of resistance.
Had she been anything but the weak, weary girl
she was, she might have seen through the fence
of kindness and solicitude with which little by
little he surrounded her.

As it was, she looked upon him as a friend who
was kind enough to interest himself on her behalf,
to bring her welcome little presents now and then

when he dared  always sending them through
the medium of Sarah, who was not a little put out
when she found that the sick girl had any friend
but herself.

I do not suppose the servant girl meant her displeasure
to be at all selfish, but she certainly was
jealous of the new-comer, and vented her spite by
various grimaces and gesticulations expressive of
future vengeance whenever his back was turned.

At first Lisette resolutely stuck to her old habits;
the wish to be " left alone" was her only one, and
Jerry despaired of ever arousing her from the state
of mental coma into which she seemed to have
fallen.

At first he persuaded her to give up her work
almost entirely, to let the future take care of itself.
Lisette obeyed, but he soon saw that the long
hours she spent with her hands folded on her lap
were far worse for her than when at least her
fingers were employed.

She must take to work again, he decided one
night on returning from a visit to his sick sister,
as he called her, a visit which had showed him
a sad white face, and eyes heavy with weeping.
Work would, perhaps, help her along a bit. Yes,
she must work. Oh, if only she were well enough
to go back to the old riding business, how much
more reason would he have to look forward to
seeing her herself again soon. The old business
would have been the very best medicine for her.
But there, it was no use thinking of it. She was
too weak even to crawl up and down-stairs without

help ; of the day which should come and find
her able to take her place, it seemed hopeless todo
anything but dream.

At any rate, the sewing must answer the purpose
of giving her some little aim in life ; even to-reach
the end of a yard or two of hemming was
better than sitting marking the flight of each
moment by a tear of weariness.

But work is not always to be found when
wanted, especially if it had been thrown aside ina
moment of heedlessness.

So Jerry found it. The mission of obtaining
such as Lisette needed was all the more a difficult
one, because he was in a city where he knew next
to no one, and was certainly not used to making-inquiries
as to any one who might be in want of
the services of a seamstress.

According to the answers which he received in
reply to his rather diffident inquiries, the talent for
doing plain needlework seemed at a premium.

It so happened, however, that in trying to help
others he helped himself  namely, by discovering
in the course of one of his peregrinations that ina
distant part of the town a Hall of Varieties basin
reality a circus.

It was only a second-rate affair, but anything
was better than enforced idleness ; so boldly presenting
himself before the authorities, he offered
his services of an evening for a very nominal sum
about half that which he had been accustomed
to receive even from the not too liberal Charles-penman.


But, as he told himself, anything was better
than nothing, quit the town he could and would
not until he saw Lisette in a measure recovered,
but all the same the days hung heavily on his
hands, and he looked forward with pleasure to
being once more at his old tricks. There was
nothing, he knew of old, kept him so much himself
as steady jogging work. In the ring he
forgot his troubles for the time, so in the ring he
went once more, and was soon a great favourite
among the numerous if hardly high-class audiences
of the hall, which favour, however, did not
procure for him that rise in his salary which he
might justly have expected.

The management argued that if he had turned
out a dead letter they would have had to suffer,
meaning thereby that they would have been under
the painful necessity of dismissing him, and as he
had turned out the very reverse, they did not see
why they should not be benefited.

The engagement, however, led to better results
than even a mere monetary return. It so happened
that the niece of Jerry's landlady was one
day escorted by a love-lorn swain to the Hall of
Varieties. The said swain was a pawnbroker's
assistant of some personal beauty, but very little
intellectual capacity, hence the reason of his
having been captivated by Miss Jane Withers,
who very kindly permitted  mind, I do not say
requested  him to escort her to various places of
amusement. She hoped that amidst the clamour
and excitement of festivity he might in an unguarded

moment be induced to give utterance to
his feelings in words, or, to quote her own expression,
" to pop."

On the occasion, however, of the visit to the
Hall of Varieties, when success seemed very likely
to crown her efforts, this love-lorn damsel saw her
aunt's lodger far the first time in the ring.

Hitherto she had looked upon him as being
beneath her notice, his apartments being rather
high in the scale of floors she never deigned to
lift her eyes higher than the third floor  so to her
he had been nothing more than the top-floor back
not even the dignity of front  anything but
distingue or attractive in appearance, indeed the
very last person on whom she would have thought
of bestowing (unasked) her young (three and
thirty years old) affections.

When, however, with his famous Houp la ! he
sprang into the ring, and by way of introduction
to his audience made its circle in a series of
wheels, as she afterwards expressed it, he fairly
took her breath away.

As we know, vide Mr Petman, Jerry's appearance
in the war-paint, as he called his public costume,
was far in advance of that of his private
tout ensemble.

The sight of his agile figure in its many-coloured
dress, his painted face with its very
broad smiles, roused in the landlady's niece such
a tumult of feelings that, as I have said, it fairly
took her breath away. When, after various acrobatic
feats  not, I am bound to say, executed

with half so much smartness as in the old days of
the Petman show, when his heart was so light it
seemed impossible to keep his heels from flying
over his head for sheer happiness  he proceeded
to exhibit his skill in conjuring, one at least of the
spectators was quite overcome with wonder.

But she was to experience a deeper sensation
yet. It so happened that in the vanishing-card
trick, Jerry, looking about for some one to assist
him in the same, some one who, to say the truth,
would not be too wide awake in watching his
movements, and having long ago decided that the
fairer sex, being flattered by the attention, usually
were the best subjects for experiment, noticed her
as the only lady in the front row of seats, a position
which had been obtained for her through the
valiant efforts of the pawnbroker's assistant.

Accordingly Jerry stepped across the ring to
where she sat, and with a low bow requested her
to take a card from the pack he held, at the same
time quietly indicating one with his forefinger.

Had he as abruptly laid himself and worldly
possessions at her feet. Miss Jane Withers could
not have been more taken aback by this mild
request '* to take a card." At first she blushed, at
least her ruddy cheeks assumed a deeper shade of
purple than usual, drew back with a shy little
motion of her head, which motion much resembled
a chicken with a stiff neck trying to drink, but at
length complied with the request. Imagine her
feelings when the card she " took " proved to be
none other than the Queen of Hearts I

For months afterwards did the fair Jane
describe to her bosom friends the thrill  yes,
the positive  nay, superlative thrill which ran
over her (massive) frame on beholding the court
card. So overcome was she at fate having led
the object of her admiring thoughts to pay
her such a pretty compliment, for be it understood
she was certain it was no accident  referring
to that slight indication which had guided
her choice  quite forgetting the slur she cast
upon the conjuror's reputation by so doing  so
overcome, I say, was she at the incident, that
when asked to return the card to the pack, she
did so so clumsily that Jerry had to assist her.
Their hands touched, and whether it was that
it was part of the trick or a fact due to the
lady's vivid imagination in such matters, but she
declared afterwards the reward of her trouble
had been a slight, very slight, squeeze of the
hand.

How she did simper, to be sure, when, after a
deal of shuffling, one of the grooms was requested
by the conjuror to knock the pack of cards from
his hand, which operation being skilfully performed,
Jerry still retained one card, which he
held up to the audience, the Queen of Hearts.

That trick was very successful. It completely
did away with the chances of the pawnbroker's
assistant. On the way home, roused perhaps by
the agitation of his lady-love during the episode
referred to, he at length put the long-waited-for
question, namely, he " popped."

To his surprise, and, in cooler moments, his joy,
his answer was a stern refusal.

"Miss Jane was sorry if he had mistaken her
friendship for him for any warmer feeling. She
could never be anything but his sister " (z>., which
meant keeping him by a tether in case other
speculations should not turn out as expected.
A bird in the hand," etc.) ; " of one thing she
was certain, her hand should never go anywhere
but where her heart was." Here the young lady
blushed again, and the pawnbroker knew his fate
was sealed. From that day forth the young
clown had a most devoted admirer in Miss Jane.
She literally haunted his path like his shadow,
true, a rather substantial one. At all times when
he came to or went from his lodgings, on the
stairs, in the hall, in the passage, the enamoured
creature waited his coming, and chained him to
her side by a running fire of small talk, smiles,
languishing looks, and all the other means by which
she was wont to enchain her unfortunate victims.

Matters even went so far as to her taking on
herself to wait upon him and otherwise look after
his personal comfort. She who had hitherto declined
to do more than " attend " the parlours,
cheerfully ascended the numerous stairs leading
to the third-floor back to carry to the hero of
her romance some dainty prepared by her own
fair (?) hands, a red herring, a dish of tripe with
fragrant onions, the odour of which recalled
forcibly to his mind the old days of Mrs Parkins'
petting.

But warned as he should have been by his
experience with the widow, Jerry had no suspicion
of the siege which was being laid to his
fortress. He thought Jane a good-natured sort
of girl, given to rather queer behaviour at times,
finch as running full tilt into his arms in the
passage, talking a great deal about his conjuring,
especially the vanishing card trick, with many
mysterious allusions to the Queen of Hearts, but
beyond that rarely gave her a thought. She
confided in him, though why he could not tell,
the story of the love of the pawnbroker's assistant,
also with many mysterious allusions, which
our hero, as we know, being anything but vain
of his personal worth, construed into no solution
to the riddle whatever. It so happened, however,
that he presently discovered that she could
be of use to him.

One day on his way to the hall, as usual, he
paid a short visit to Lisette. Every day he tried
to hope that when he saw her he would find some
alteration in her for the better, one little step at
least towards a better state of affairs, but always
when he saw her she would be lying weak, helpless,
and spiritless upon her couch, looking as
white, wan, and weary as when he had first found
her in her desolation. The change of apartment
from the dreary attic to the far more comfortable
third-floor front had hardly had as good an effect
as he had hoped. The knowledge that she had
some one to look after her interests had relieved
her of that haunting fear of what was to become

of her in the future, but in its place was that
listless despondency which was such a dead
enemy to complete recovery. Jerry usually in
his short visits did his best to cheer her up a
bit. He went to see her twice a day, sometimes,
three times if he found her particularly dull and
cheerless, but rarely stayed long; the sight of
her lying so altered and helpless always made-him
long to make the days go back and see her
what she had once been, even if it brought back
to him the newness of the pain which was now
an old aching grind. He often wondered how
he could find it in his heart to laugh and joke-and
tell her funny tales while the sad brown
eyes looked fixedly into the fire ; but he would
have joked and laughed if his heart had been
bursting, if only he could have brought a smile
or a flush of pleasure to the pale face on the
cushions.

On the day, however, of which I write, the
brown eyes looked up into his face more than
once so wearily, that all of a sudden he lost the
thread of the funny anecdote he was telling,,
cleared his throat, tried to go on again but failed,,
and giving up the attempt said a hasty good-bye,,
and set ofi" to his work.

All the while he was dressing and waiting to
go on, he saw the white, tired-looking face before
him, and even when he was in the ring, Madame
Poppette  between the intervals of whose performance
he took his turn, and with whom he
was no small favourite, having obligingly given

one or two extra tricks, when she had one day-felt
anything but up to work, owing to a bad
attack of neuralgia, which caused her nerves to
jump far better than she did  was quite concerned
; Jerry certainly was anything but " spry "
as usual. He generally managed to get himself
in working order, but to-day he had got a more
than usually severe attack of the heart-ache,
which refused to be cured even by the magic of
being in the ring, where such things as hearts are
quite out of place. Presently, however, while
walking round and round in the centre of the
ring in company with two grooms and the ring-master,
he suddenly stopped short, endued with
an idea.

Madame Poppette had laughingly declared he
must be in love to be so abstracted in manner,
and made numerous inquiries concerning who the
lady might be, when the day, and such like other
teasing queries, adding laughingly, as she took off
her cloak, preparatory to her entrance into the
ring, " Mind you tell your lady-love if she wants
any help with her trousseau. I am not above
doing plain or fancy needle-work either in the
day-time. A quarter of an hour in this costume
won't fill six hungry children, or get medicine fora
sick husband."

And away skipped the brave little woman to
flit about before the eyes of an admiring public as
gaily as if such a thing as the grub period was
unknown in her butterfly life.

Her words somehow planted themselves in

Jerry's mind, recurring with a persistency that
would have put the poor heart of Miss Jane
Withers all in a flutter.

Would you believe it, he actually found himself
wishing that he was going to be married !
and that because he would then be able to put
his little sick friend in the way of getting some
work.

I believe for fully three moments he entertained
the idea of asking some young lady  any one, it
did not matter  to marry him, solely for the
purpose of causing her to want a trousseau
made.

This idea, however, he very reluctantly dismissed
as unpractical ; for asking any one to
marry him meant, as a natural consequence, his
marrying her, and that was just the part of the
bargain he could not make up his mind to fulfil.
It would not do to run the risk of being had up
for breach of promise, so this view of the matter
was dismissed as likely to be too expensive.

The sudden stop which he came to in the ring
was caused by a second idea which flashed across
him, one indeed with which he was so enchanted
that it was not until the grooms and ring-master
had in course of time, as was only natural in
traversing a circle, overtaken him, that he was
roused to a sense of where he was.

For the rest of his " turn " he was more than
squally " spry." Perhaps he wished to make
Madame Poppette change her mind ; but at any
rate the way he leapt and twirled and threw

hand-overland hers " was hardly consistent with
his imputed character of being in love.

Strangely enough, too, the very next day he
had an interview with Miss Jane Withers. What
passed therein would, I fear, have only served to
confirm the discerning fancy-rider s opinion, could
she have known.

But she did not, for the matter was only entrusted
to Miss Jane under pledge of great
secrecy. How the pretty, frisky Jane did blush
and giggle, and languish and smile when she
took the oath. From that time forth she was
more like a shadow than ever in her attendance
of Jerry, always full of mystery and secret communications,
until I am not sure that he did not
repent of the bargain he had made. He had
selected Miss Jane to help him in his plan, firstly
because she was about the only woman he knew in
the place, besides, of course, Lisette, and secondly,
because he considered that being past thirty she
was enough his elder to be relied upon safely.

Poor Jane, could she only have known his true
feelings, what a lot of sighs, lingering looks, and
goodness knows what marks of her affection she
might have spared him.

As it was, she was in happy ignorance of the
misfit of the key which she believed she held to
the riddle, and gushed and simpered over the
commission which had been entrusted to her in a
way which must surely have opened the eyes of
any but such a blind, self-forgetting young personas
our hero.

He thought of the scheme only as it effected
the end he had in view, and never for a moment
considered any side consequences.

It so happened that two or three days after his
talk with Miss Withers, that lady called upon
Lisette, taking with her a brown paper parcel,
which she did not bring away with her.

Jerry was rather late in his visit that evening,
only ran in for a moment before going to the
show. He found Lisette as usual on the sofa, the
parcel unopened beside her.

Hullo ! " he said  after his usual inquiries as to
how she felt, and his never despairing, " Cheer
up, lass, you'll be better soon," in answer to the
same reply, " Just the same, thank you," to his
cheery question how she was,  " Hullo ! what's
this?"

Then he stopped and went very red, but before
he could say anything, Lisette replied, 

Some work I had brought to me to-day by a
Miss Withers. She is such a strange woman. I
wish I had refused it, but she would not let me."

Miss Withers ! " repeated Jerry with a degree
of innocence which, to an ordinarily awake observer
would have been proof positive of his
guilt ; " what sort of a woman was she % "

He had never mentioned the beautiful Jane by
any but her Christian name, and strangely enough
{i.e. in accordance with instructions received) Miss
Withers in her interview with the little seamstress
never mentioned his. Lisette, as we know, was
not one to say much to strangers.

VOL. m. 

Jerry's query concerning her visitor and future
employer was only in accordance with the interest
he always evinced concerning everything she had
to tell him.

She, however, answered the question, as she
frequently did others as kind in intention, by
turning away her head wearily and saying almost
peevishly, " She was old, I think, and talked so
much it made my head to ache. I wish she had
not come."

Jerry stood for some moments after this twisting
his hat in his hand, as he always did when
embarrassed, then suddenly announced that he
must be off.

Good-bye, Liz," he said, taking the thin white
hand in his and pressing it very gently  it looked
such a tiny scrap of flesh and bone in his big
brown one,  " I hope you'll feel better in the
morning. Shall I come and see you tomorrow? "
He always asked, and she always answered in
the same weary way, " If you care to come."

Of course I do," he replied cheerily. Then ashe
reached the door, " Don't get at that work
unless you've a mind. I'll see this Miss Withers
about it if you'd rather let it be."

With that, afraid lest after all he should commit
himself, he departed. His face, as he walked
through the dimly-lighted streets, in spite of his
cheerful good-bye, was graver even than it had
been the day before.

If this plan don't work, I don't know what
will. I thought it seemed so sure yesterday, but

"to-day she don't seem to take to it at all ; doesn't
even care to so much as undo the parcel. It
seems a sin to talk of work before her, but something
must be done. I can't go on day by day
seeing her like she is ; not a bit better than when
I found her. How white and wan she looked, as
if she hadn't so much as got a bit of strength in
her. Poor child! it's been a hard blow to her."
And the big brown hands clenched themselves
suddenly with a return of the old feeling of bitter
resentment against him who had so wantonly been
the cause of such misery.

A few minutes later he was in the ring at his
monkey tricks, cracking jokes and earning loud
applause and laughter as the reward of hie
jollity.

The next day matters seemed even worse.
Entering Lisette's room, he found her with the
brown paper parcel open on her knees, her tears
falling thick and fast on the stuffs it contained.
These were materials for the lighter portion of a
bride's trousseau  aprons, handkerchiefs, wool for
shawls, and a good number of those pretty little
antimacassars, mats, chair covers, and the like,
which serve to ornament a new home.

Miss Withers had blushingly said it was part of
a trousseau, and perhaps it was when she thought
how it might have been her own home for which
she was about to work that Lisette hid her face
in her hands and let her tears fall upon the pretty
things.

They were for some happy bride who was going

to marry the man she loved, while her poor little
sister was ruthlessly cast aside  some one else
preferred before her. When Jerry understood
what the tears meant, a matter which took him
some time, he very nearly betrayed himself by a
burst of contrition for his own stupidity.

He took the offending parcel in his arms and
flung it on one side, and utterly refused to let
Lisette have anything more to do with it for that
day at least, and for the rest of his visit was so
subdued and humble that I fear he did very little
towards cheering his little friend*

That night he was utterly miserable. All his
plans for Lisette's happiness and welfare seemeth
to be brought to nought, and she was not a whit
the better than if he had never tried to help herat
all. He put down the failure all at his own
door, never for one instant laying any blame to
her who was so little grateful for what he tried
to do that she met him as often as not with tears,
weary, despondent looks, and sometimes even
with peevish answers to his kindly-meant inquiries.


He received them all quietly, forgiving the
fault because of the provocation, and because of
the love in his great, good, honest heart for the
poor afflicted little sister whom he had so readily
and fearlessly taken under his care till she should
be able to bear her burden by herself.

A GLEAM OF HOPE.

But as when the night is darkest dawn is nearest,
so, when Jerry was most despairing of ever succeeding
in the mission of charity which he had
undertaken, a faint gleam of hope dawned upon
the gloom.

It was a long time even before he would admit
that it was a gleam. Its coming was very slow,
and the work of waiting, oh, so hard ! But Jerry
was only too thankful to know that light wm
coming at last, to have anything but patience.
He had made up his mind in the beginning, that
the task he had undertaken was one which meant
waiting, and he was quite prepared to do that or
anything which might lead to Lisette's happiness
in the end.

The gleam of hope to which I refer, had of
course to do with her. The work which had at
first brought such bitter memories to her heart,
proved in time to be a means of rousing her a little
from herself  the one thing of all others to be
desired.

At first, with a listless hand, she had taken the
material which lay nearest at hand. The soft silk,.
muslin, and cotton were far easier for the thin
white fingers to handle than the coarse work on
which she had hitherto been engaged; but the
gay-coloured ribbons and little "fal-days" looked
somewhat out of place in the hands of the pale-faced
girl who lay day after day in her shabby
black dress  working, now quickly and feverishly,
now wearily, as if it was too much trouble to hold
the needle. Often and often at first, as she sat
alone, some sudden thought, some recollection of
the past, would bring the ready tears to her eyes,
to flow down the white cheeks and rest upon the
dainty muslin and lace she held.

Jerry had at first been glad to think that the
coarse sewing was supplanted by this prettier
kind ; but the sight of the tears always made him
call himself, for the hundredth - and - something
time, a fool, and the biggest blunderer that ever
lived.

Jerry was very hard on himself in those days,,
when he was trying so manfully to fight his own
battle against the love in his heart and that of his
little friend, against a no less hard one  hatred of
life.

But soon he had less cause to be so relentless.
It was then that the gleam of hope first crept into
the darkness.

He never knew when exactly it first came. He
was so often disappointed. I think it really came
from that first day when he had come into the

dreary attic and found "little Liz," and given to
her service all he had to give  life, love, heart,
soul, everything  if only it could make her happy.
The first change which he noticed was that she
seemed to take a slight interest in her work. She
liked to see the pretty flowers and figures growing
out of the grey cotton apron or antimacassar. It
was work which required some taste. Her first attempts
were not very grand ; but, encouraged by
a kindly word or two from Jerry, who never lost
an opportunity to cheer and comfort her, she grew
little b} little to try Avhat she could do, and so to
take an interest.

She Httle knew how often, while her eyes were
bent over the pretty flowers which were blossoming
to life under her skilful fingers  the weary
droop gone from the head  a pair of grey-green
eyes would be watching her with an expression in
them strangely at variance with the gay tale on
the owner's lips.

But Jerry had learnt his lesson in those long
weeks when he had been a prisoner, imagining
her he loved as happy as he could. That little
slip he had made when first he had realised the
change in her, would never be repeated. Never,
while in his ears rang that cry of bitterness from
the wounded heart, " Carl, Carl, I love you so.
I have no one but you."

Not till then had he fully realised how truly
great was the barrier which time had placed between
them. The Present he might rule as he
pleased, but the Past rose up between him and

the Future. He was helpless in the hands of
fate.

He often wondered, when he saw the bowed
head raised a little, whether at last the poor
child was learning to forget. He did not as he
might once have done, but never would now, that
the grave of a former love might be the cradle
of a future affection. No, all such dreams were
passed  the memory hidden away in his heart.
Henceforth, as brother to a poor weakly sister, he
would win his way to a firm and lasting friendship,
instead of to the love he had once hoped to
gain.

It was well for Lisette that she never guessed
the thoughts which filled a heart which she so
often wounded. True, she never after that first
day spoke of anything connected with the days
when she and Carl Hermann had walked down
the golden pathway of happiness together, and
Jerry took his cue from her only too willingly,
although he sometimes wondered whether silence
was best ; yet there were hundreds of little ways
by which she showed how deeply the knife had
struck into her heart.

Naturally, when she spoke of the Past, she
could not avoid some mention of some incidents
place or day  which brought up other recollections
; and often and often Jeny would pause
in his flow of cheery talk, knowing by the quivering
lip, the sudden movements of the head, that
he was touching some sore point.

By-and-by she seemed to find a sort of melancholy

pleasure in thinking and speaking of the
bride and new home for which she worked.

Jerry, however, thought the subject one especially
to be avoided, and always tried to put it
down if he could, giving but short, not always
very comprehensive answers to Lisette's wonder
as to what the latter might be like  what sort of a
Husband she had chosen  and such like queries,
usually brought to a close by a long sigh, a clasping
of the little white hands over the dainty work,
while the shadows of the past crept back into the
childish face, making it look so strange and tired,
a gloom which it required all Jerry's merriest
efforts to chase away.

One day, when Miss Withers came, on behalf of
her friend, who was too busy to have a moment to
spare, as she (Jane) said, to bring more work 
Lisette did not get on very fast, but the pay was
very liberal  the German girl so far roused herself
ass to make inquiries about the bride-elect.

To her surprise Jane blushed, simpered, and
very nearly let out the secret  or what she imagined
to be the secret,  and was only deterred
from so doing by the remembrance of the conditions
under which it had been imparted to her.

Lisette thought her manner rather strange,
especially for one so advanced in years. When
Jerry came to pay his usual visit in the evening,
she gave him a description of her employer's
manner, that he too very nearly betrayed his
knowledge of the original.

Why should she blush ? " Lisette said, stitching

away quickly at a pretty bunch of pink roses on a
dark velvet ground, the most extravagant piece of
work she had yet attempted. " Why, upon ray
word  my word  is it? I was about to think she
is the bride herself"

Jerry burst into a hearty laugh, such had not
echoed in the room for many a long day ; then
thinking Lisette looked inquiringly at him, broke
off suddenly with a lame excuse, that from the
little seamstress's description, the lady seemed
anything but likely to be a bride, then or at any
other time, " But," he added, perhaps feeling a
twinge of conscience at not defending the friend
who was serving him, " I dare say she's a good-natured
sort of girl enough when you know her."

Good-natured," repeated Lisette. " Yes, but
who could think of her face resting on such a
cushion as I mean to make this to be. She's
not a bride as I like to think will have any
work."

Jerry decided in his own mind that the work
of the little white fingers would be thrown away
on such an unromantic (how little he knew ! ) person
as Jane Withers.

'Is't for her?" he said, laughing again; then
again stopping short, and adding hastily, " They
might as well be for me, when I get married."

'* For you when you get married," repeated
Lisette reflectively, adding with a sigh, " yes, I
suppose you will get married some day. I hope
she will be somebody nice, Jerry."

The words stung Jerry's brown cheeks into a

hot flush, and he was glad to be able to bend
down and mend the fire.

"Married," he said, after a moment, feeling he
must say something to break the silence, and of
course saying the very thing he might have left
unsaid. " Marry ! I shall not marry till you do."

Till I do," said Lisette, slowly untying a knot
in her thread. " You must not wait for me. I
shall not be married now."

Jerry hearing again the cry of " Carl, Carl,"
hastened to change the subject, while he laid
another clod on the grave of his love.

Those are pretty roses," he said. " But why
are you making them pink. Did you not say only
yesterday that they were to be white."

Yes, but I do not like white roses."

Jerry recalled to mind the day when his modest
little bunch of violets had been allowed to fade in
the sawdust, while a bunch of white roses had
been carefully guarded. That day was the one
on which he first began to understand that he
was " too late."

But in spite of these little slips now and then
matters certainly were on the mend. Lisette, it
was true, was very little better in health, in spite
of the good and nourishing food which Jerry insisted
should be bought with the money earned
by her work. She rarely now thought of the day
when it should rain. I suppose because every day
was alike gloomy to her, but improved in spirits-she
certainly was.

She must have been very low down indeed had

she been impervious to all the young clown's
efforts to cheer her up. Never a visit did he pay
her, but he seemed determined to make her look
at the bright side of everything, always full of a
fair amount of gaiety, never too loud or boisterous,
but always as kind and gentle as a woman. As
Lisette seemed to rally a bit, he grew even more
resting in his determination to draw her out
from among the shadows, until it seemed he must
triumph in the end.

Matters went on in this way for some weeks,
Tie coming and going as freely as a brother, she
being guided by him in all things as if she were
truly his sister, not a word passing between them
but such as was warranted by the relationship.

Jerry was honest and true to the bottom of his
heart, and Lisette was after all but a child in the
ways of the world, and knew no fear.

So, as Jerry had hoped, hand-in-hand, as it were,
they went through life together, he wanting no
greater, more grateful task than to be her guide
and protector. When he saw her gradually losing
the old despairing self, he rejoiced as only a brave
unselfish heart could, and prayed the change for
the better might go on.

And it did go on, till at length the day came
when he persuaded the long caged bird to try her
livings in the fresh spring air.

But she shrank from quitting her prison. There
-are some prisoners to whom the cell becomes intime
a home which they are loath to leave.

Jerry did not press the point. He never commanded

 only suggested quietly and gave way
to any objection  usually, however, ending by
having his own way.

In this case, however, all his efforts proved unavailing,
and when he saw the thin hands clasp
themselves with the old gesture of pain over the
scarred face, he could not find it in his heart to
say more.

But when the days grew warmer he would fling
the window wide open, and let the soft air and
the golden sunshine stream into the dingy room.
At first Lisette seemed even afraid of the yellow
beams seeing her so different to what she had
once been ; but after a little she grew to love the
change from the gloom and chill of the winter to
the mild bright days of spring.

She did not know it, but the winter in her heart
was slowly giving place to the softer season, and
even Jerry did not fully comprehend the change.

He did not know how at last the sunshine was
breaking through the clouds and dispelling the
gloom.

And then, when all seemed going on so smoothly
when peace and content were gradually coming
into the troubled hearts  a shadow suddenly fell
across their path and turned the sunshine into
darkness.

It so happened that one day, entering his 
at the Hall of Varieties, Jerry found
himself face to face with an old friend, or rather, I
should say, an old acquaintance  none other than
George Epsom.

The jockey returned his greeting in his usual
surly manner, and did not express any joy at the
meeting. Jerry had never let him make any unpleasantness
between them, but Epsom was down
in his luck a little, and did not choose to be civil
to any one. When the young clown began to
question him concerning the Petman Show and the
phenomenon of the vans having been seen by him
in the brewer's yard, he told him shortly to go
and ask Madame Petite what he wanted to know,
her tongue was long enough to answer ,any
amount of questions.

By-and-by, however, in the course of dressing,
he vouchsafed a strongly worded account of what
had occurred to the show after it left the People's
Gardens, part of which history, up to the time of
Lisette's accident, Jerry was already acquainted
with.

To his no small regret and surprise the yoimg
blown learnt that the Petman Show was *'no
more,"  it was dead, or, to be more explicit,
broken up. Not many days after he had so
cruelly left the girl whom he and his daughter
had treated so unjustly, and who had been so
faithful in her services to him, to struggle back to
life or to die amidst strangers, while once again
exerting his powers of wrath upon an unoffending
wretch, Mr Petman fell down in the fit which had
long seemed inevitable.

Very little hopes were entertained of his recovery
; at any rate he would never more be any
use at his old work. His daughter and her husband,

who, it is to be hoped, took the opportunity
of showing forth in better colours than hitherto,
took care of the father thus strike down as it
seemed by the hand of justice in the midst of his
vile wrath ; the company of the show was dismissed
to get engagements elsewhere as fortune
might be favourable or no, and the vans and other
properties were stowed away until a purchaser
could be found for them.

Jerry was not one to bear resentment long,
though he did not pretend to be a paragon. The
insult which Lisette had received from the hands
of Mr Petman he never would forgive, but when
he heard of the old man's fate he could think of
him pityingly at least, and say, " Poor old chap,
it's a fearful punishment," believing that when a
debt is paid in this life for some sin, it is not again
charged to the offender in the next.

But if he could pity Mr Petman for what was
past, he had much ado to keep down his own
angry feelings when the jockey, referring to
Lisette's accident, spoke in terms anything but
gentle.

The girl was a fool ; they all are. Old Petman
was  well, right when he told her so. Hadn't
more pluck than a baby. Always moping about
with a die-away look in her face, as if there wasn't
another man in the world. Bah ! it makes me sick.
Hermann was a  conceited young puppy, but  "
And then followed opinions and views of the whole
matter, which so roused Jerry that while he was
debating in his own mind how to convey to the

jockey's mind the fact of his adopted relationship
to the object of his scorn and contempt, he
(Epsom) hurried out of the tent to see that Daredevil
was in proper trim, as it was important
he should give a successful performance on that,,
the first, evening.

Left alone, Jerry vented his rage by nearly
strangling himself with his necktie, in his efforts
to remove it while tied, by a series of wrenches,
after which display of feeling he grew calmer.

And growing calmer, he began to quietly consider
the matter  namely, his unexpected meeting
with the jockey, and what it might lead to. Into
his thoughts we will not pry. Certain it is they
are honest and pure. I think we know Jerry a
little by this time.

At any rate, he determined upon some course
of action, for when a little later he met Madame
Petite in the ante-room, he had no time save fora
hurried greeting, so gave her no time to justify
the jockey's remark concerning her talking powers.
She would no doubt have liked to have had a chat
with him over affairs of the now dispersed show,,
but neither then nor the following days did Jerry
seem to have a moment to spare if she came near.

He mentioned to Lisette the fact of her old
friend being in the town. The invalid said she
should like to see her old friend, and expected her
for some days, but as she did not come, never thinking
that Jerry had not told of her whereabouts,,
she put it down as the jockey's fault, and said no
more.

For about a week Jerry managed to avoid the
little woman, but at the end of that time, on
going to pay his usual visit at Mrs Spicer's, he
learnt that Madame Petite had bethought herself
of inquiring at her friend's old address, on a
chance of finding her still there, and, of course
been successful.

She had been greatly grieved at the change in
the little Fay of Fire,  had fairly broken down 
and, hugging the shorn lamb to her motherly
breast, had cried over her, unable to say a word
save,  " Pauvre petite, pauvre cherette. Ah mais
comme il est terrible, comme il est terrible, pauvre petite."

Her visit hardly did as much good as might have
been expected from the tone of her sympathy.

When Jerry arrived, he found Lisette hardly
so cheerful as usual, and heartily wished the unoffending
Frenchwoman at the bottom of the sea.

Like a sensible being, however, he did not notice
the depression in the air, but set to work to clear
it, till, little by little, the sick girl grew more
lively.

He did not ask her what had passed between
her and Madame, although he would very much
have liked to have known. He supposed Lisette
had told the whole story. There was nothing todo
but to hope her listener would see matters in
the right light, and hold her tongue.

It seemed that she did and could do this, in spite
of the jockey's assertion ; and surely no one who
had heard the sick girl's tale could think of evil
against her and her protector.

VOL. III. F

At first when she knew but half the truth,
Madame Petite's face had fallen suddenly, and a
strange, almost frightened, look had crept into
her eyes as they rested on Lisette. Perhaps she
was thinking of the days when, in innocence and
helplessness, far, far less than that of this little
German, she had been led away by one who had
seemed to be her friend.

She could make no effort to break her own
chains, but there was enough good in her withered
old heart to shrink from the thought of seeing
others wilfully forge theirs.

She remained for a few moments without
speaking, then asked softly, so loath was she to
breathe the first breath of evil, 

And so Monsieur Jerri has been your guardian
angel, as they say ? "

Lisette nodded.

Yes, he has been very good to me. I do not
know what I should have done without him. He
has been my brother."

The words were simply spoken, and the brown
eyes were raised so frankly to the old woman's
face, that she could not but believe them ; but I
think she deemed it best to keep the story to
herself

On the evening of her visit, when Jerry said goodbye,
Lisette looked up suddenly from where she
sat, her hands busy with a soft white woollen shawl.

*' What name do you think Madame Petite gave
you when I told her how good you have been for
to me ? "

It was the first time she had so openly expressed
any sense of his friendship, independently
of her usual thanks. Jerry paused in buttoning
up his coat, then asked gaily, 

Some ' 'este,' I suppose, or some crack-jaw
expression."

No, she said it in English. She said ' Monsieur
Jerri.' " Jerry began laughing ; his funny
name Frenchified sounded very strange. *' Monsieur
Jerri is a, guardian angel."

Jerry flung his hat into the air, and laughed
even more loudly.

A guardian angel ! The poor old lady's eyesight
must be defective. I am sure I do not look
a bit like one  do I now % "

Lisette looked him up and down, then shook
her head.

No ; I do not think it."

Although he was perfectly aware that the reply
was just  far from having even the most remote
resemblance to an angel of any sort, he was, as
we know, the most ordinary-looking of young
men possible to behold  especially in his present
costume of smoky grey and boiled yellow, the
usually bright tie, and his countenance by no
means altered in any one feature since we first
saw it  yet I think Jerry was a trifle disappointed
at the decided denial.

Perhaps he showed as much in his face, for
Lisette looked up with one of her rare smiles.

"You do not look like an angel; but I think
you are a  a  oh, I do not know what you call it."

Call what ? " asked Jerry, trying hard not to
be too interested.

Some one who is good and kind, and takes
care of poor girls when there is trouble, and never
seems to mind how cross and tired they are."

Oh, that's all nonsense," broke in the would-be
angel with great earnestness. '' I only did
what anyone ought to have done  that is," not
liking to cast a slur upon other people's charity,
only that I liked to do." Then thinking this
expression might mean more than he intended,
or rather more than he wished it to, he added,
I'm your brother, you know. If I can't help you
along a bit, I don't know who can."

But, all the same," said Lisette, " what did
you call Signor Patchouli when he let me ride
the Turk ? "

A brick, or something like that," said Mr
Angel, forgetting .to what end the questions
were leading.

Then you are a brick," said Lisette, with a
quiet emphasis which contrasted curiously with
the slang her companion had put into her mouth.

Jerry laughed more heartily than before, whereupon,
with something of a return of her old
manner, Lisette shook her head at him, saying
he was very rude, and for once did not suddenly
return to her old depressed mood.

When Jerry said good-bye, he asked as usual
if he might come again on the morrow, and
received the usual answer, " If you care to ; "
but this time Lisette added, " Why do you ask

always % You know you may come. I can't
get on  without  my guardian angel  I mean,
my brick."

And Jerry went home feeling more lighthearted
than he had done for many days.

He contrived sometimes to pay his visit when
Madame was expected  meeting the old woman's
glance so frankly and honestly that she did not
dare say the word of warning she meant to have
uttered.

Once, when they left the house together, she
did say, 

** Monsieur Jerri, you mean always to take as
good care of the child as you do now? " and she
fixed her keen little grey eyes on his face.

Yes, Madame," he said quietly, returning the
look. " She is my sister."

You are a good man," replied the little Frenchwoman,
clasping his arm tightly. '* It would bea
different world if that there were more like you.
But it is dangerous."

Jerry made no reply, and the matter dropped.

WHAT THE BREEZE DID.

So the days went by ; and as the summer came
the change in Lisette grew more and more
marked. Whether it was that Madame's influence,
and that of Whisky, the blind kitten, was
at work, I cannot say, but certain it was that the
little invalid seemed less fragile in appearance
than she had been, while she grew to take more
pains in keeping her room bright and cheerful.

Knowing how fond she was of flowers, Jerry
had often brought her such as he could procure ;
but she seemed at first to have lost even her taste
for this. The winter's blossoms were often left
to die and wither for want of fresh water. Now
they were placed carefully in the window where
the sun could get at them, carefully tended, or
sometimes on the table at which the little seamstress
worked, where, as they did not thrive so
much, the table was moved to the window, an
arrangement which answered two purposes  the
flowers got the air and sunshine, and so did the

human and no less fragile blossom, the two combined
making the best medicine possible for the
wasted frame.

The view of the street which, too, she got from
the window gave Lisette a little amusement
while she sat at work. She grew to know by
sight the more regular passers-by, and to wonder
where they came from and what their business
was ; but it was some time before she could bear
to meet any glance which they might cast up at
her, even though she always sat with the poor
scarred side of her face turned away.

She could not even now sit upright for any
great length of time  the injury to her back was
anything but slight, but Jerry managed, by means
of some old properties, as he called them  the
same including a big thick shawl, which was anything
but old  to make an old arm-chair into a
fairly comfortable reclining chair for her to use
when she felt inclined. Neither of them guessed
what a source of interest they were to one of the
occupants of the houses opposite  an old artist 
who saw Jerry come and go regularly, now whistling
gaily, now seemingly cast down, usually with
some little gift  a few flowers, or some dainty
such as might tempt a poor appetite.

First of all, a dim shadow now and then on the
blind in the third floor front was all this unknown
observer could make out of the sister, then he saw
behind the curtain some one sitting at work, then
the flowers would be put out on the window sill,
giving the watcher a glimpse of a white face,

which by-and-by was more clearly seen as the
days grew warmer, and the little seamstress sat
for some time at the open window.

At first she did so for a little while, now and
then rising and going away quickly if any one
seemed to look up curiously at her, but after a
little she generally was to be seen at certain
times, those times when the very devoted brother
would come flinging along down the street to
pay his usual visit.

Perhaps at first she did it because she knew he
wished it, but soon it was observed that she
seemed to take particular interest in that end of
the road from whence he came, although returning
his nod of recognition with very little warmth 
at least it was so at first ; by-and-by the brown
head with its short curls would lean forward as if
to make sure it was he ; then a wave of the hand
would be given, ere long, accompanied by a smile
of welcome, which altered the sad face wonderfully.


The flowers, too, which he brought were sometimes
now fastened in the little black dress, taking
away its sombre appearance ; and sometimes,
when he was seen in the distance, the thin white
hands would smooth down the ruffled hair, and
make such little signs of preparation as laying
aside some coarse work (Lisette had found other
customers by this time, but still did a little work
for Miss Withers' friend) for some dainty little
'' fatal " which he would often take up in his big
fingers and handle with the greatest care and

reverence, such as would bring a smile to her face
her smile always in response meeting his hearty
laughter. All this and a good many other little
scraps of evidence of the change which was going
on so slowly but surely in the room on the third
floor was seen by the old artist as he sat day by
day at his work in the window opposite. He often
used to lay down his brush and think how nice it
was to see a brother and sister so fond of each
other ; but then you see the old man was a little
soft in the head, so it was not to be expected he
would attach any particular importance to signs
which would very soon have been rightly construed
by a farther-seeing person.

He grew in his queer sort of way to be very
fond of the white face opposite ; indeed, after
regarding it across the street for many many days,
it found its way on to his canvas. He began
many pictures, but rarely finished one. How he
lived was a mystery ; but it was believed he had
a very rich sister who allowed him just enough to
live upon, provided he did not trouble her any
further. No wonder he thought in his simple way
that all brothers and sisters are not all alike.

The picture he began to paint of his all-unconscious
little model across the way, he called by
some strange fancy " The Angel Sister." It was
just a frail girlish form, with a sweet face, smiling
down as if in welcome from a mass of floating
fleecy clouds  at least such it was at first. He
altered it afterwards ; the smile gave place to a
look of helpless fear ; the eyes, which before had

been so soft and tender, had a look in them of a
hunted animal ; the white robe was changed to
one of dull grey, and the fleecy clouds became
storm messengers black and dense above the
drooping head. He called this picture '' Lost."
When, not long after the white face of the little
sister had vanished for ever from the window
opposite, news was brought to the rich coldhearted
lady that her brother was dead, and she
sent some one to dispose of his few belongings,
there were some who said that had the old man
lived, that picture *' Lost " would have made his
name and fortune.

But it was too late to talk of earthly reward
then. So the one finished work was hidden away
in some obscure corner, as the painter had been,
and never won the fame which was really due to it.

But Lisette knew nothing of the model she was
serving, she saw the old artist sometimes when she
sat at her window, but never guessed the close
watch he kept upon her,  never guessed that she
had any motive for the actions he saw,  never
knew ; but there, let me tell all things in order.

It so happened that her birthday came round.
Remembering how she had spent the last one,
she determined to let it slip by unnoticed. But
Madame Petite  wilfully, I believe  let out the
secret to Jerry, and he at once entered into a
conspiracy to make it a high day and holiday 
the first Lisette had known for many a long
day. So when the little seamstress woke on
the day she was to forget, it was to find

Sarah blundering into the room with two letters
containing two birthday cards, most gorgeous
in design, and profuse in good wishes, and two
parcels, one containing a big white shawl such
as she had lately worked with so much care
for Miss Withers' friend, whose wedding, by-the
bye, was a long time coming, the other sundry
little "sandals," as Jerry called them  a pretty
lace collar, an apron with rosy bows, and one or
two other cunning little wherewithal to lighten
a sombre toilette.

The gifts were not much in themselves, but the
kindly thought  more kind even than she guessed
was grateful to the recipient.

A little later Madame herself arrived, bringing
with her the news that at half-past two a carriage
would be at her Majesty's door to take her for a
drive.

1 am sorry to say Lisette received the announcement
with anything but pleasure  indeed, at first
she persisted she would not stir out of the house.
But the little Frenchwoman did battle with her
objections in right royal manner.

Not come out ! " she said, affecting the greatest
surprise, though she knew well enough what she
had got to expect. " Not come, when Monsieur
Jerri has taken the trouble to get an easy carriage
for you,  gone all the way to the stables at
the other end of the town to be sure the horse
is good  for he said, ' It would not do for it to
bolt with our invalid ; he must go gently  very
gently  for it is her first little excursion, and we

must be careful.' So he has gone to get a quiet
horse and a nice carriage. And see what a lovely
day it is  Jerri calls it Queen's weather. Oh !
you must come. He has made it a surprise for
you. He will be so disappointed."

But the poor little bird still shrank from quitting
the cage in which she had been a prisoner
so long. She quietly but resolutely resisted all
Madam e's arguments, and steadily refused to consent
to the plan.

The old woman did her best, but when the
morning passed, and all her efforts proved unavailing,
she lost her temper, and could fairly
have shaken her little friend.

"You are an obstinate child  a perfect baby,"
she said wrathfully. " You do not deserve that
Monsieur Jerri should be so kind. He will be so
disappointed. You know he will. He would do
anything in all the world lor you. And you 
you are so stupid  so ungrateful. You care no
more for him than for my little finger."

"Care for him," repeated Lisette, going on
quietly with her work. " I care for him like my
brother."

Brother  bah ! I thought you had more sense.
Can't you see how he  " Madame stopped short,
lor Lisette's big eyes were fixed wonderingly on
her, the look of innocence in them perfectly unmistakable.


"Can I not to see what?" she asked, getting, as
usual when excited, perplexed in her English.
What have I not eyes for % "

"For what is good for you," replied Madame
shortly, letting the reply stand in what light it
might.

A silence followed. Lisette went on v/ith her
work, and Madame vented her indignation by
sewing away at some coarse stitching as if her
life depended on it. She never even deigned to
glance at her companion. Had she done so, she
would have seen on her face a puzzled look, as if
she was at a loss how to solve some riddle.

Presently she seemed to give up the attempt,
and began talking lightly of other things  doings
meanwhile, far from good with her needle.

To this fact Madame ironically called her attention.


I am afraid I shall have to take your advice
and be lazy on my holiday," Lisette said, and
soon the work was entirely laid aside.

Then she walked with the slow step which wa
all she had strength for now, very unlike the
gliding tripping of formerly, up and down the
room, picking up scraps and pieces, moving the
furniture, and giving the little vase of roses on
the table fresh water for the second time that
morning  though flowers were far more plentiful
then than they were when she had cared so little
for them  in fact behaving as if she thought the
room looked hardly festive enough for the occasion.


Having brought about some very slight change
for the better in her room, she effected a transformation
in herself The dingy, shabby black

dress was replaced by a sober but far prettier
grey one, made simply, but sadly showing the
alteration in the wearer's thin figure from the
rounded one it had once been. At the neck she
fastened the collar  Madam e's present, donned
also the apron with the rosy ribbons, and ran her
fingers through the still rather short curls. This
done, she sat down in the low chair at the window,
where the keen grey eyes of the little Frenchwoman
watched her all the while they seemed
intent on the coarse work, and the other pair
of watery blue ones across the street did the
same.

Ah," said the old artist when he saw the
change of costume, "zee beetle child"  he was
a German also  " zee beetle child is to be happy
themselves to-day. She has some joy. She has
put away zee ugly dress and has a pretty one.
And now she is come for to watch for her bruiser.
Are  she sit still for some moments  she is
thinking  zen she begin to look for him, although
it is not yet zee time. Ah, and now she has put
some of his flowers in her bosom, and looks down
at seem as if to say. He will like me to wear
zebra. He is a good bruiser, and she has right
to look for him. Hah, if I had a sister  a sister
like to her. She is so pretty and so good. He
is not pretty, but I think he must be good, and 
Here he come. Look out, little sister, here he
come. Ah, she has see him, she has lean forward
to wave her hand and smile. How pretty she
look when she smile. He is pleased. He wave



his hat, and very near knock over sat beetle boy.
Are, it is just Hke to him  give him a penny and
pat his head. She laugh. She know he is clumsy,
but she"

At that moment the landlady enters with her
lodger's so-called dinner, and the old artist's
soliloquy is cut short before he can give a name
to his " angel sister's " feelings towards her
brother.

Meanwhile, arguing well from his little friend's
unusually gay greeting, Jerry hardly waited to
say good-day to Sarah, who opened the door,
and with whom he was by this time no small a
favorite, but went bounding upstairs two steps
at a time.

His hopes, however, received a blow when, on
entering the third-floor front, Madame Petite
informed him with great precipitation that he had
better set off at once and countermand his order
of the carriage, as Lisette resolutely refused to
set foot outside the house.

Jerry's hopes fell suddenly, but he said nothing,
only crossed to where Lisette stood, the smile
of greeting still on her lips, and shook hands with
her, at the same time laying on the table a beautiful
bunch of roses which he carried.

Not going ! I am sorry for that, Liz. I hoped
you would like it  but never mind."

I think if he had looked the least bit put out
or annoyed, or even crestfallen, as he sometimes
did when his plans failed, Lisette would have
liked it better.

She did not offer to take the flowers, but
turned away to the window, putting up her
hands to her face with the old gesture, which told
the reason for her refusal.

There was silence. Madame had a reason for
saying nothing, contenting herself with looking
the more, and Jerry, as usual, could think of
nothing to say on the spur of the moment.

Presently Lisette turned away from the window
and said slowly, " I will go, Jerry, please."

Jerry did not at all like the look of this humble
surrender. He was afraid Lisette might think he
wanted to tyrannise over her  the very last idea
in his mind. In his bungling way he tried to
make her understand that she had only herself to
please in the matter, ending by giving her to understand
that he did not in the least care whether
she went or stayed at home, a statement which,
when she persisted in her determination to do the
former, his manner entirely contradicted.

A little later a comfortable basket carriage,
drawn by a very sober-looking grey pony, drew
up at Mrs Spicer's door, from whence in a few
minutes the artist at the window saw issue forth
the little white-faced girl in the grey dress, lightly
wrapped up in a big woollen shawl  the day was so
warm  her face half hidden under a big straw bonnet,
her hand shielding the scarred side of her face
(Lisette had wanted to wear a veil, but Madame
had scouted the idea, and Jerry looked rather
grave, so it had been given up). She was leaning
on the arm of her brother, who looked particularly

jovial aud happy. He assisted her carefully into
the carriage, placed a rug over her knees, insisted
upon her having an extra cushion for her back, at
her wish unfurled a big umbrella to keep off the sun.

The little old woman took the seat back to the
horse, and, taking the reins from the boy, the
brother sprang into the seat beside his sister, and
the pony started. The next moment they had
disappeared down the sunny street. That afternoon,
the old artist did even less work than usual.
He was on the watch for the return of the pleasure
party. But the afternoon went by, and he watched
in vain. It was not until dusk that they returned.
There was, however, just light enough to see the
flush of health and enjoyment which glowed in
the invalid's usually pale face. On her lap she
held a big bunch of flowers. Jerry assisted her
into the house  saw her comfortably seated in
her chair at the window, then he and Madame
set ofi" at the top of their speed for the Hall of
Varieties. The old artist was at his window all
the evening, looking across to where the face of
the angel sister showed in the room opposite. She
must have been very tired with her excursion, for
after bending forward to wave a regretful goodbye
to her companions, she lay back in her chair
and hardly moved, sitting looking out into the
dim light as if lost in thought.

Fully two hours went by thus, and still she did
not move. The old man over the way watched
her curiously, though now the dim outline of her
face was all he could see.

VOL. III. G

Presently as it grew later, among the crowd in
the street came a young fellow, who walked
quickly till he came within sight of the window
in Mrs Spicer's third-floor front, then slackened
his speed. When he saw the face at the window
Tie went a little faster  passed the house  paused,
and whispered softly to himself with a sigh,
Good-night, little sister, God be thanked I may
do even this much for you  I ask no more."

And when he turns on his way, a deep sigh
rises to his lips. Ah, how different is what is, to
what might have been.

Up in that darkened room above the girl still
sits motionless. She, too, is thinking of Past,
Present, and Future, but the first seems lately to
have become farther off  the veil which hangs
over it thicker  the darkness which divides it
from the light more and more dense, hiding from
sight the unfaith and unrest which lie beyond.
Slowly, as she has done very often of late, Lisette
is going over the scenes of her later life.

Once she could not even trust herself to do
this  the glare of the treacherous gaslight made
all else seem so gloomy. Then slowly, she hardly
knew how, in her heart she said, " The light is
not for me  it would be a sin," meaning she must
l>ury her love, now that her lover was another
woman's husband. At first this had seemed
impossible, but pride had made the grave, and
time slowly filled it in, almost without her knowing
it.

And as day after da' laid a clod upon the

Tnound, slowly but surely from the once darkened
sky a ray of golden sunshine  the sunshine of a
pure and unselfish love  fell upon the drooping
flower, and insensibly warmed and gladdened it
into life.

Only very very slowly had the work been done,
so slowly, progress there seemed none  but then
when people wilfully blind their eyes, how can
they be expected to see plainly %

As she sat in the window on that warm spring
evening, the sick girl's mind more than half unconsciously
reviewed the days which seemed so long
ago, and with the days came faces which she
knew  one in particular, the day when first on
that wet evening she had made her way to the
Petman Show, one face more willingly than the
rest. The day when she had first made her appearance
in the ring among the Petman people ;
again recalling a face,  the days which followed
that memorable walk into the country. Ah,
yes ! that day " he " who was dead to her now
had laid the first stone in the edifice which
was one day to fall about her ears with a
mocking sound. The poor child sighed as she
recalled it, but smiled the next moment when
she recalled the funny little incidents of the
walk  her companion's queer behaviour  the
strange way his manner kept altering from
grave to gay and back again  the episode of Joe
the old carter, and a heap of things which happened
at the same time. Then the days when her
friend, as she called him, was away. She skipped

hurriedly over these, for they belonged to the
buried joy. The day when the white roses and
the violets had been given to her. The roses
were still in the little satin box  untouched lately
the violets  where were they % It must have
looked very ungrateful to have taken so little
care of them ; but never mind, the other flowers
which the same kind hand had brought since
then were carefully guarded  some at her bosom
even now. The day when she had so nearly
been hurt by Miss Petman's inability to reduce
Day star to order,  the soft words which had been
whispered in her ear  false, false, every one of
them,  the irksome imprisonment which some one
had had to suffer for her sake. The funny tea-party
at Mrs Parkins', and some parts of the conversation,
which it seemed perfectly useless to
remember. The grand day at the Gardens, every
incident of which was recalled, from the first
donning of the pretty dress to the riding home
in the omnibus,  the babies  the mastering of one
of them,  the man in the stiff collar and black
gloves,  the thin young man with the parcel,  the
lady in the bonnet,  the comments upon her companion's
good nature  comments which Lisette
hardly remembered to have heard, but which all
came back again. Then the dreary days before
and after the accident, all coming to an end in
that day when her friend had come and found her
so lonely and so sad, and had kissed her  yes,
she wondered why she had not remembered that
before. He had kissed her and said something

in a queer voice, Which she was too faint to
hear. Then more days, seeming all alike as they
:had gone, but each now thai, they were recalled
bearing some slight record of never-ceasing kindness
and goodness. Then, last day of all  the
one drawing even now to its close  the one in
which she recalled faces from the past  two, oh,
so very different to look upon, and one gradually
making the other vanish into the gloom which
time had hung over what was.

And which face is it that so slowly has grown
out of the darkness ? I do not think even the
dreamer would give it a name if you asked her.

She sits looking dreaming out into the dimly-lighted
street, a far-away look in her eyes. She
sees among those who pass and repass a figure 
a very ordinary one. A gleam from a lamp falls
on the face. Though it is not looking up at her,
she smiles and waves her hand as if dreaming
still. She watches the figure out of sight, still
with the same strange look on her face. When
it turns the corner of the street and disappears
from view, she leans forward as though to call
it back.

The action seems to rouse her to herself. She
starts like one awakening from sleep, looks quickly
round her as if afraid of being watched; then,
pushing her hair off her face, rises, crosses the
Toom, and takes from a drawer a little satin-covered
box. This she carries to the window,
takes a little key from a chain which she wears
round her neck, and unlocks it. A few withered

flowers, dry and brown, the remains of what were
once so fresh and fair, are all it contains.

She turns them over with her thin fingers, but
no tears fall upon them now as they have done
so often before. Presently she rests her scarred
cheek on her hand, as if they remind her of the
change in herself; and after a little is dreaming
again.

We will not intrude upon her thoughts this
time. The ashes of a dead love are sacred.

And yet the light in the brown eyes as they
look into vacancy seems to tell of more than
smouldering embers.

So she dreams on, with the evening breeze
softly kissing the flushed cheeks, and nestling
among the short brown curls. But it does more
than this. It plays with the roses fastened above
the fluttering heart, caresses them gently, plays
with them, and whispers its mission to them. By-and-by
it grows more bold  twines round their
slender stems, bids them loosen their hold, and
softly, silently, they fall upon their withered
sisters.

But the breeze has not done its work yet. It
does not seem to like the mournful contrast of
living and dead. So it plays with the dead roses
now, till presently, as they grow fearless, it rushes
unawares on them and carries them greedily away
away  away into the darkness and gloom  into
the noise of the street  to fall into the dirt and
be trampled under foot.

Thus, when the dreamer awakes once more

the treasure-box is empty save for the fresh, fan-flowers
 as if the past had flown away with its
burden of sorrow and pain, and left only the
blooming present.

So while Jerry goes on his way saying to
himself "Good-night, my sister"  as the angel
sister closes her eyes upon her happy day  she
presses her lips to the beautiful roses, and she too
says good-night to  somebody.

THE ANGEL SISTER.

But during the night one of the fresh roses, a
beautiful bud, fell from the vase, and began to fade.
It was only by dint of great care that it was at
length brought to bloom like the rest.

This meant that not all at once would the
flowers of a new life spring forth and blossom ;
that a storm cloud was once more gathering in
the sky ; that the old artist would complete his
angel sister picture, and call it '* Lost."

For the story reached even his ears, and he no
longer watched with pleasure the brother and
sister over the way, but shook his head mournfully,
and said in his childish way, " It is sad, very
sad for one so young, to be so wicked. Her face,
it was like to sat of an angel, but it is not. All
zee woman are like to it, but it is sad in one so
young."

And so he altered his picture, and gave it its
new name.

The morning after her birthday, Lisette woke
with that enjoyable feeling that something pleasant
had happened. She lay for a little, recalling

ibe events of the previous day, and the sensation
rather increased than otherwise. Presently she
began to get up ; but when she went to take down
the old black dress from its peg, she paused, turned
over and over its shabby folds, and at length hung
it up again  donning instead the pretty grey one
which she had worn in honour of yesterday. She
put on the lace collar ; but thinking, I suppose,
that that was too great extravagance, laid it aside
substituting instead a neat linen one. This
arranged, she did what she had not done for many
days  gave herself a good inspection in the glass,
not content with the view it gave on the wall, but
carrying it to the window, so that the sunlight fell
full upon the face it reflected.

At first she sighed to see how little it was still
like what it had once been, but was vain enough to
smile when she saw the brown curls were gradually
becoming thick on the shorn head. All the
morning she sat at Avork, full in the glare of the
sunshine : I verily believe because she thought a
little colour would improve her pale cheeks.

At any rate, the golden light seemed to have an
effect upon her spirits ; for after laying down her
vvork more than once to lean forward a little out
of the window  I suppose to look at some object
of interest in the street below  she suddenly began
plying her needle very quickly, and all at once
commenced to sing one of those pretty German
songs which she used to sing in days long ago.
She was still singing when Jerry, a moment or
two later, came bounding up the stairs, as usual,

h,

three steps at a time. Hearing the song, he
stayed still in wonder to listen, but it broke oflT
suddenly.

Truth to tell, the singer had heard his coming,
and aware of the meaning of the words she sang 
forgetting he would not understand them  she
brought the song to an abrupt conclusion.

But he did not know this. He thought that
some chord in the singer's memory had been
touched by the sound of the mother tongue  the
tongue in which her love tale had been told ; and
he sighed softly, and said, " Poor child."

The '' poor child's " manner when she greeted
him did not tend to dispel the illusion. She made
no attempt to rise from her chair  only looked up
and said quietly, " Ah, Jerry ! is that you ? "

Just as if she expected some one else. The
next moment, when he made his usual kind
inquiries as to how she felt, she suddenly interrupted
him, by asking very gravely, almost
severely, " What for have you come ? "

"What for have I come?" repeated Jerry, looking
across at her in astonishment. " Why have I
come?  why  to see you, of course."

I am sure I am much obliged, sir," was the
mocking reply.

Obliged to me for coming to see you ! Why
Liz, child, what ails you ? "

The expression of bewilderment on Jerry's face
as he put the question, plainly showed that he
thought his little sister's brain must have turned
during the night.

Lisette smiled a singularly bright smile, and
letting fall her work she said quickly, 

I wonder you has come again."

Why the dickens shouldn't I?"

Why % Because that I was so  what is the
word ?  ungrateful yesterday."

Ungrateful ! How what ? "

Don't bricks like to be thanked when they are
good and kind? "

But there was nothing to be grateful for, that
I see."

Not for all that you did for me  for all that
you has done for me always?" said Lisette, looking
up with her eyes bright with excitement into
the astonished grey-green ones. " I was thinking
ever so much of all you has done for me, Jerry, and
that I has never said enough thank you. I want
to say it now, for you has been very good to me'*

Oh, that's all nonsense," blundered out Jerry,,
saying, of course, the very thing he did not mean.
That is, I didn't do no more yesterday than I
have done always. I mean that I didn't do anymore
then than I'd do for anybody."

If he had not fortunately, but secretly much to
his own annoyance, blushed crimson and looked
exactly as if he were answering some charge of
great weight respecting his character, his listener
might have believed what he said.

As it was, she was just beginning to understand
this big fellow, or thought she was, so she smiled
back at him, and proceeded to add to his confusion
by saying, 

v?>

Guardian angels and brothers deserve a reward
when they are more good than is usual. I
go to give to you something, Jerry."

Give me something ! " repeated Jerry. " Now
don't you get wasting your money on me, Liz ;
you've 'none to spare, in spite of the time you
spend over those sandals and things."

But, for all you say, I am going to give
something to you. Do not be afraid; it will not
be something extravagant. I am poor, but I can
afford this. It is not paid for with the money."

Not bought with money."

No. I will you to guess."

Oh, I am such a lubber," began Jerry, using
u new term to describe his stupidity. " I should
never guess."

But still he was bidden try, and did not make
such a very big blunder at starting after all.

Although not as a rule what might exactly be
called sentimental, he had a desire to possess
nothing but one of those same roses with which
the breeze had played the night before.

One of my roses," said Lisette, touching them
caressingly. " No ; that is not what I will give
you. I cannot lose them."

Then I give it up," replied Jerry, not venturing
a second attempt.

Well, then, I suppose I must tell it to sou. I
was thinking all about you last night, and I
wanted to seek a way to say I am happy for what
that you did for me ; and I thought, ' He is my
brother '  is it not so ? " Jerry nodded. " Yes,

he is my brother  it would be Hke a sister to  to
give to him a kiss."

Ah, Lisette, Lisette, how is it you so little
understand the lesson of the roses. Do not laugh
at her, dear reader, she had not found the truth
yet. She did not know, or rather comprehend,
what was in her heart.

Had the earth opened and shown him all its
secrets, the effect upon our hero which this proposal
made could not have been greater. His
face became suddenly crimson ; his eyes drooped
from the frankly upturned gaze to the floor ; and
for several moments he could only stand hopelessly
confused and speechless. His heart was-beating
wildly under his rough smoke-coloured
coat  there was a big lump in his throat  and the
perspiration stood out on his forehead.

And all this because his little sister had offered
him a kiss  a tribute of affection which any
brother might, nay, had a right to expect. If
ever in his life Jerry was afraid of himself it was
then. He was afraid lest after all he should lose
in one moment what he had so nearly gained by
long weary days of strife,  lest he should forget
the vow by which he was bound,  forget that soft
voice called him " brother,"  forget everything
but the love in his heart which had never seen
the light  the love which that sisterly kiss would
seal down for ever.

The struggle was a severe one. A little more
and the words he had hidden so long in his heart
would have burst forth, and brother and sisterhood

would have been impossible. A little more
but  He looked down at the frank girlish
face, still bearing the trace of the blow under
which she had fallen for her love's face  to his
ears came back the memory of the broken song
in the mother tongue, and he paused. A moment
and all was over. The battle won.

But he would not dare trust himself to feel
Ripon his cheek those soft lips, still warm with the
kisses of the love she loved  the only love she
ever would love.

1 would rather have the rose, Liz," he said, so
quietly that the girl looked curiously at him,
quite at a loss to understand the strange look in
his face. She understood only too well afterwards.
" I would rather have the rose," adding,
with a lame attempt to speak lightly, " It will
last"

Lisette did not seem to mind his preference.

Then it is the rose which you shall has.
Choose." And she took the blossoms from her
bosom and held them to him.

I'd rather you did for me," said Jerry, afraid
lest his hand should not be quite steady. What
a big coward he was, to be sure.

So Lisette chose for him, picking out from
among the rest the very bud which had so nearly
withered in the night. She stood up, and, looking
laughingly into his face, fastened it into his
coat.

There," she said triumphantly, '* you look
quite  what is it?  handsome."

As she spoke, and while yet she stood close
inside him, her fingers touching his coat, the
door opened, and in blundered Sarah. She had
knocked twice and received no answer, so,
supposing the room was empty, had gone in.
Seeing who it was, Lisette called gaily to her
to admire her handiwork, and Jerry summoned
up enough presence of mind to make some
laughing comment.

To their united surprise the girl, instead of
giving back some queer reply and lingering on
her errand, put down the parcel she carried, and
blundered out of the room with more speed than
she usually used.

What is gone to be the way with her ? " said
Lisette, looking after her in astonishment.

I expect * Missus has been a-giving it to her
again,' as she calls it. Poor wretch, she has a
time of it, with the immortal ' Sarah ! Sarah ! ' "

I have pity for her," replied Lisette softly.
She is one of the friends who have been good
for me."

What, is she a brick and a guardian angel
too ? " And the two fell to laughing at the silly
nonsense, like two happy children.

A little later Jerry said good-bye, promising to
come again later in the day. When he reached
the hall he found Sarah there making a pretence
of dusting the hat-stand, but in reality doing
more damage to the hats and umbrellas it supported
than made the operation at all a desirable
one. Seeing Jerry, she opened the front door

for him to pass. This unwonted civility on her
part called forth a comment from Jerry. Again
his remark was received with anything but good-nature.


Get along, will you ? " replied the slavey,
motioning him roughly towards the door. " Don't
you see you're in my way? "

This was far from true, but knowing and sympathising
with the aggravation consequent upon
that everlasting call " Sarah ! " Jerry took her
broad hint and moved on.

No sooner was he on the doorstep than Sarah
banged the door to after him with great and im-necessary
violence. As she did so, Mrs Spicer
made her appearance from the lower regions, and
in a few minutes was in full swing of that oft-repeated
operation, " giving it " to her handmaid.
Usually, the contest was entirely a one-sided
one, but on this occasion, urged on by some impulse
for which I cannot account, Sarah ' gave as
good as she took ;" indeed, worked herself up to
such a pitch of excitement, that in emphasising-
a statement more remarkable for the earnestness
with which it was uttered than correctness of
grammar or construction, she restored a well-worn
beaver to its peg with such force as to knock a
good-sized hole in the crown.

As it happened, the topper was only a relic of
a departed parlour-boarder  all he had left to pay
six months' rent, when he completely and unexpectedly
vanished from the scene of action, and had
been hung by his defrauded landlady in a prominent

position, as a sort of trophy of vengeance,  a sort
of reminder  if she needed any  henceforth never
to place any trust in lodgers  much less man.

Judging, however, from the wrath poured upon
the unlucky servant in consequence of her carelessness,
one might at least have imagined she
had wilfully destroyed some family heirloom.
The discussion which had been the cause of her
excitement came to an abrupt conclusion, and the
usual one-sided one, superseded it. Judging from
the quiet way in which the unfortunate " slavey ""
listened to the aspersions on her own character
one was led to believe that for once she and her
shortcomings had not been the object of the first
battle.

Meanwhile Jerry went slowly on his way homeward,
not giving another thought to the servant's
rather strange manner. He was used to her
queerness by this time, and excused it all for the
sake of her kindness, rough and ready as it was,,
to his little sister.

No, his thoughts were too much occupied with
that little scene in which he had received the rose
he wore in his coat, to have time for anything-else.
Over and over again he rehearsed it to himself,
sometimes thinking he had acted rightly 
sometimes wrongly.

Had he been cold in refusing the kiss so frankly
offered % Had he been ill-advised not to receive
the gift in the way it had been proffered  a gift
which would have been so precious to him ? The
questions each in turn received its answer, but
VOL. HI. H

the latter one recurred the more often. Now that
the danger was over, it did not seem half so
great ; indeed, Jerry quite blamed himself for
being prudish, stupid, nay, even unkind, for having
acted as he did.

He arrived at this conclusion just as he reached
his lodgings, where in the hall he again found
someone in waiting for him. This was Miss
Withers, whom lately, owing to his state of mind,
like Lisette's, having been somewhat more cheerful
than formerly, he had treated so affably that
she grew daily more and more fascinated, and
more determined in her attempts to waylay his
affections. In order to effect this, she practised,
as we know, the same operation upon him, in
person; indeed, the manoeuvres which she had
gone through during the few past weeks, in order
to gain her cause, were truly laughable. Her
friends were kept well informed of the whole
matter, and whether from any colouring given by
the lady, it is impossible to say  but certain it is
that the affair was supposed to be in that satisfactory
state in which the former one had been  that
is, before Jerry had selected the happy Jane from
among a numerous audience  to take a card.

On the morning, however, in question, the adoring
heart of this young female received a slight
repulse. She had espied her (supposed) admirer,
as she frequently did, when he was some distance
up the street, and straightway descended into the
hall to await his coming. The moment he laid
his hand upon the knocker, she opened the door

with a suddenness which nearly precipitated her
into his arms, a contingency which, in our hero's
frame of mind, was anything but desirable.

Jane blushed  however she managed the flush
so often is a miracle  and murmured something
about the lock of the door needing oiling. Jerry,
none too sweetly, a wonder for him, but all because
of the dissatisfaction which he felt at his
own conduct concerning the proffered kiss, replied
that he wished the young lady would perform
the necessary operation, and let him have a
key, so that he could let himself in.

The moment he had spoken so irritated, his
usual good temper made him thoroughly ashamed
of himself, and he at once began to make atonement.
Now Jane had had experience enough to
enable her to manage such an affair as this with
skill. She therefore looked upon this change of
mood in her aunt's lodger as a most favourable
reign, and withheld pardon for his crossness for at
least a quarter of an hour, during which time she
managed to sigh and languish and gush a great
deal, and draw from him a lot of small talk (very
small on his part), to which process he submitted
rather more readily than usual, owing to his having
so nearly lost his temper but a short time
before.

At the end of fifteen minutes he was able by an
effort to make his escape, and at once put the
entire incident out of his head.

Not so the lady. Either she was slightly deaf,
or wilfully misunderstood what had passed during

the tete-astute in the hall ; but certainly the report
she gave of it to her bosom friend, Miss Mary
Saunders, when she paid her a visit that same
evening, was not, strictly speaking, an accurate
one. Could Jerry only have overheard how his
blunt speeches were twisted and turned into any
meaning but the one which he intended them to
convey, he would have at once transported himself
bag and baggage from the neighbourhood of
such a designing young female as Jane Withers.

For the next few days that young lady was ina
perfect flutter of excitement, and paid a good
many visits to her friends, to all of whom, as to
Miss Saunders, she told some great secret, at
which each in turn was very pleased, and seemed
to offer their visitor as many good wishes as if it
were Christmas Day, New Year's Day, and a birthday
rolled into one.

At the end of a week Miss Jane received an
intimation from her seamstress that the last of her
friend's order was finished, awaiting her approval.
Lately the young lady had contented herself
with merely sending and fetching work by the
errand-boy, a course which Jerry had himself
proposed ; for it will already have been guessed
that it was Lisette's brother who had devised this
scheme for aiding her. But on this occasion Miss
Jane having been commissioned by *' her friend's
as she, with much empressement, called this mysterious
being, to settle the account, she, in company
with Miss Saunders, paid a visit to Mrs
Spicer's third-floor front, and interviewed the

little seamstress. But before this visit took place,
a change had once more come over the complexion
of things with regard to my hero and
heroine, those of the latter particularly.

It happened that later on in the day of his oft-detailed
conversation with his landlady's niece,
Jerry, as usual, turned his steps once more in the
direction of Mrs Spicer's. By this time his constant
visits had made him well known among the
lodgers, with whom he was held in no little
favour, in consequence of the supposed devotion
to his invalid sister. Often when passing out orin
he would stop and have a chat now with
sone, now with another, of the different " floors."
When, therefore, on reaching the first landing,
he met Lisette's nearest neighbour  the third
-floor back  a sad-faced woman, who did some
work at a theatre somewhere in the neighbourhood
 one of those haunted-looking creatures
whose histories are the secrets of the big city,
Jerry nodded cheerily to her, and made some
Fight remark, such as had been on this lips all day,
I suppose because of that sort of air-tight feeling
which he had had in his breast.

Although usually acknowledged by her neighbours
to be anything but sociable in disposition,
the woman usually responded to his overtures of
friendship  his frank manner won its way with
her as With many others. But on this occasion
she hastened rather than slackened her steps, and
answered his remark very briefly, turning her
head away, as if she wished to avoid notice.

"Poor thing," thought Jerry, whistling softly
as he went on his way ; "she's in trouble again,.
I suppose," adding some unexpressed thought
relative to a wish that he might expand his
heart and pocket in order to be able to extend
his protection farther than he did at present.
"Ah," smiling and muttering softly to himself
as he made this reservation in his good nature,
he did not mind how far the brotherhood was
extended, but he would never have but one little
sister." There is no need to say who was the
one he had in his mind.

His thoughts on this subject were interrupted
by his meeting, a few steps further on, a young
fellow who was the occupant of the dismal garret
which Lisette had formerly occupied ; a queer-looking
sort of customer, and one who was regarded
by the rest of the lodgers with suspicion
and distrust. He seemed to be a lazy loafer 
if the truth had been known, up to very little
good  but as he kept himself to himself in a way
which was at the same time anything but frank
and openhanded, as yet no actual cause for complaint
had been found against him.

He was distinctly avoided by his neighbours, 
even beneath the notice of the top floor  the chain
of acquaintance between the basement and roof
being thus broken. He did not seem to mind
being in Coventry in the least ; on the contrary,
when Jerry, passing him on the stairs one day,
happened to push against him and good-naturedly
begged his pardon, following up the introduction

bj a nod or greeting if they chanced to meet, all
he got in return was a surly grunt or growl.

On the day, however, of which I write, the
attic " was the first to make any sign of recognition
 a sulky sort of a grin.

Jerry returned it, attaching no special importance
to the circumstance at the time, and continued
on his way. On the next landing he met
Madame Petite. He greeted her cheerily, and
made some laughing remark as to how she had
left his little sister after her exertions of the day
before  then suddenly broke off his merry tone,
and asked quickly and anxiously if anything was
amiss.

At first the little Frenchwoman evaded his
inquiry ; but it was easy to tell by her fiice that
something was amiss. It had on it that worried
look which to those who knew her best meant
that matters were not smooth with her.

Jerry was fearful lest this might have to do
with Lisette,  lest the exertion of the day before
had after all proved too much for her ; but a few
words set these fears at rest  but only, alas! to
raise others.

For some little time the two stood talking
earnestly on the landing  at least Madame Petite
told what her trouble was, and our hero listened,
With a rather disturbed look creeping into his
face, in the place of the light-hearted one which
it had so lately worn. He did not say much ;
but silence on his part, we know, meant that he
thought the more.

That evening, although we have seen him sofar
on his journey  only, in fact, a few steps
from her door  Lisette had no visit from her
brother. She had not seen him come in, having
been bidding Madame Petite good-bye, after
vainly trying to understand what was the matter
with her  what her trouble  so did not know
of the meeting on the stairs, after which the
little Frenchwoman and Jerry left the house
together, parting at the end of the street 
the former to make her way to the Hall of
Varieties with as much speed as she could muster
the latter to go by a more round-about way,
and with certainly a slower step and graver
face than usual. That evening the watcher at
the window waited in vain ; and the evening
seemed very long and dreary.

The next day, too, instead of appearing as
usual, Jerry sent a note telling of his accidental
meeting with a friend who lived at the other end
of the town, and who had invited him to pass a
few days with him, which invitation had been
accepted. The note was very offhand  indeed,
singular in tone, which singularity puzzled Lisette
not a little.

She read and re-read the short epistle many
times, then folded it up and placed it in her
workbox with a little sigh, only the next moment
to take it out, tear it with seemingly unnecessary
haste into a dozen pieces, and throw it into the
fireplace. At first she stretched out her hand tolet
the fragments fall out of the window, but

changed her mind, and dropped them softly into
the fender. This done, she went on industriously
with her work for some little time, turning her
head every now and then to look out into the
street below, for she was once more sitting in the
sunlight, the blind kitten curled up in her lap.
This action of hers must have been purely force of
habit. She had evidently forgotten she had no
visitor to expect that day.

She evidently had forgotten this, and every
time she remembered it she returned to her work,
not always, I am bound to say, with increasing
ardour. Indeed, after a little, she who had lately
sat at her task with not a little perseverance, after
repeatedly indulging in this distraction, seemed
to become unusually languid, laid down her needle,
and sat looking absently out the window.

In a few minutes she roused herself, and again
took up her work, Worked quickly away for a few
minutes, and then looked round, this time not out
of the window, but in the direction of the fireplace.
As she did so  as if tired of the silence, and eager
for some voice  even her own  to break the
monotony and direct her thoughts she said aloud,
bending over the kitten, perhaps expecting sympathy
from even its small presence, " It is likely,
Whispy, isn't it? It is sad to be here all alone.
We have not any friends to-day ; they have got
tired of us. Is it not so ? Ah, well ! we must not
to be greedy. They have been good. It is play
now, and we will not be sorry of it, will we ?
Pleasure is good after that we have worked, and

we will be content. He  ray friend, who wills
that you sit on his shoulder, Whispy  has to goto
be with his other friends, and we will be glad,
is it not % Yes, we will be glad." And the thin
white hands closed caressingly over the little ball
of grey fur, and the kitten rubbed its fluffy head
against the tapering fingers, offering what comfort
it could.

I suppose, although English born, by this time
the kitten was well versed in the *' gibberish," as
Jerry called it, for Lisette always spoke in her
own beloved language when she had any special
thoughts to express. " Yes," she went on softly,
we will be glad, if our good friend is happy. He
is kind and good, he ought to have pleasure sometimes.
And it can be none for him to come here,
so we will be glad. But," in a lower whisper, " it
will be lonely without him. Yes, very lonely.
Only you and me, Whispy. No one else  no
brother, not for ever so long. We shall be lonely."

There was a touch of the old sadness in her
voice which had so long been absent from it, as if
her brother, gone from her for even so short a
time, made her life seem very dreary. Had he
not brought all the sunshine into it ? Now he was
gone, it was little wonder so timid a young spirit
should miss his coming  his quick firm step on the
stair, his cheery greeting, his pleasant smile, his
thoughtful little gifts which, when he had gone,
seemed doubly precious, his never-failing goodness,
and, what was even better, his ever-constant
cheerfulness, his  in fact, himself, in thought,

word, and deed  all were missed now that they
were gone.

A few days was not long ; but to Lisette, I
suppose, because of her loneliness, it seemed an
eternity.

I wish, she thought to herself, that he had said
some definite time. It would be nice to know
when to expect him. A few days may mean two
or three or more. He might have said how long.
And he might have come and said good-bye. It
was unkind of him not to say good-bye. This
thought had been in her mind some time, and had
at last struggled out. And now that it had done
so, she was rather ashamed of it than otherwise.
Unkind I Jerry unkind I What an ungrateful,
selfish girl I am getting, to want to deprive him
of his pleasure. He who has been so kind, so good
to me. It is I who am unkind, not he. I hope
he will enjoy his holiday. And we  we, VVhispy,
must enjoy ourselves, at least we will try ; but,"
With a little sigh, returning to her first idea, " it
will be very lonely." And so she found it.
Although Jerry's visits had only occupied a very
small portion of the day, the remembrance of them
must have lasted far longer, for the lonely feeling
extended over nearly all the little seamstress's
waking hours, and the white kitten was the recipient
of an amount of information which, had it
been a cat of very remarkable sagacity, might
have given it a clue to the true state of affairs.

As it was, it only purred, rubbed its fluffy head
round its mistress's neck, and kept its opinion of

the matter to itself. Perhaps it was because she
knew that not even its eyes could look into her
own and read in them what she hardly knew
herself, that Lisette so fearlessly confided in it.
But in spite of this little scrap of comfort, the
days seemed very long. Strangely enough, too,
when she " did " the room on the day following
the receipt of the young clown's letter, Sarah
found no scraps of paper in the fireplace. I suppose
Lisette had been seized with another tidying
fit, and perhaps disposed of the fragments of the
torn letter as she had at first intended.

So the few days crept slowly along, and the
little German girl expected in vain. Nearly a
week went by, and still she was left to be lonely
and sad  for sad she was, restless and discontented,
scarcely knowing why  hoping for a
letter, a message, some news of any sort, some
sign, but none came.

And where was Jerry all this time? Who was
this suddenly discovered friend for whom he had
forsaken his little sister, just when she was beginning
to find out his true worth ? Who was
he % Why, a creature of the young clown's
imagination, which same not being by any means
a vivid one, had seen no other way out of the
difficulty in which he found himself than in this
creation.

When Lisette imagined him enjoying himself
with his friend, he was in fact in no other place
than his old lodgings, enjoying a sort of self-inflicted
solitary confinement. There was no

reason why he should not have gone about his
business as usual. Lisette, being a prisoner,
would never have known of his whereabouts,
provided he avoided Wicker's Row. But this,
if once he set off on a ramble, he found himself
unable to do. On the first day of his singular
behaviour, he had decided to pass the time by
making acquaintance with the other end of the
town. Accordingly he started with the determination
of going for a good long tramp, which
might help him to disperse the blue devils, from
a fit of which he had been suffering during that
day and part of the former one. He walked
resolutely in the direction he had planned, for
about half-an-hour, then, although as a rule a
good pedestrian, grew tired, and decided to resta
bit. This he did, and again set off on his way,
only soon to yield once more to the feeling of
tiredness. He rested again, and this time decided
to turn his steps by a round-about way homewards.
He kept to this intention for a short
while, but at last gave up any idea but that of
returning the shortest way possible, v/'hich way
led, in fact, down Wicker's Row  the very place
of all others which he wished to avoid. I do not
think he was aware how little control he had
over his inclination, until he found himself in the
act of turning the corner of the street. Then he
came to a full stop, pulled himself together, and
set off to his lodgings, vowing vengeance on
himself for his stupidity.

So while Lisette was so devoutly wishing he

were enjoying his holiday, and yet wishing she
was able to look forward to his coming, imagining
him miles away, he was in reality but a few yards
away from her, wanting very much to run in, if
only for a few minutes, to see how his little sister
fared, divided from her by a gulf to which all
along he had been trying to shut his eyes, and
which now by a turn  a backward one, it would
appear  of fortune's wheel, was suddenly opened
under his very feet.

It was to avoid this abyss that he had gone
to all this trouble of invention, an art in which
he had had very little practice, so no wonder his
attempts were rather feeble ones.

By an effort he succeeded in saving himself
from ruining his scheme at the very commencement,
namely, by turning his steps in a reverse
direction to that in which his inclination would
have led him. He went home a sadder but a
wiser man, glad to have conquered, but very
weary and worn with the struggle.

It had been the same old one  old, but yet
none the less vigorous in strength, even now as
fierce as when he had first fought it  the
struggle between self and love.

JERRY'S BANISHMENT.

The following day Jerry stayed indoors, save for
his excursions to and from the show, during which
he had to exercise a sort of mental horsemanship
over his will, lest he should be in any way led
astray. He was, so far, able to hold himself in
check ; but when on the next day, tired of his
seclusion, and beginning to find it had an alarming
effect upon his spirits, he repeated the experiment
in the form of a second ramble, and only
once again saved himself from acting, as he said,
like a fool and an idiot."

This failure proved to him that " banishment
and nought but banishment" would answer his
purpose. Hence the solitary confinement. He
did not know what course he was going to take
when this supposed visit to his supposed friend
was over. He had said it would be for a few days,
hoping by that time that he would have hit upon
some plan, but he saw a whole week go by without
any ray of light gleaming upon his mental darkness.

All this time he kept himself well aware of
Lisette's wellbeing by means of a small " odd
jobs " boy whom Mrs Spicer employed. This
boy, by means of sundry bribes, interested himself
greatly in the third-floor front, about whom
Sarah never seemed loath to talk. Through this
artful youth " Jerry was able to trace the widening
of the gulf which lay between him and the
poor seamstress,  to watch the trail of the train
which the jockey's hand had lighted. Its progress
was slow but sure  the "secret" spreading from
floor to floor  beginning, strangely enough, at
the top, where dwelt the questionable-charactered
young man. In a little it could not help but
reach the fountain head of the establishment's
respectability  the parlours. When this should
happen, as Sarah said, there would be a grand
bust up ; " which I suppose meant that Mrs
Spicer would be induced to take some course by
which to save the character of her establishment.
Meanwhile she preserved strict neutrality. And
all this time, while the mine was being fired, what
of Lisette?

She alone, the chief actor in the pitiful drama,
knew nothing of what was going on around her.
She was innocent of any attempt to do wrong,
and never guessed that others should deem her
otherwise.

Yes, she knew nothing. While those around
her were busy clacking their tongues, and, in
virtuous indignation, pointing fingers of scorn at
her, all ready to cast the stones which none had

truly any right to throw, she had no deeper feeling
in her heart than that of loneliness, of longing
for the company of that cheery, brave fellow who
was slowly, although she knew it not, lifting her 
the crushed, bruised flower  out of the darkness
into the sunlight once more.

It was hard that when the dawn was so near
the clouds should gather again.

A few days. How long they seemed ! Would
they never end? Yes, they were long, but in
them, although the harvest-time was yet far off,,
the tiny seeds which were to bear such fulsome
blossoms were being sown in the wounded heart
blossoms whose gentle growth had first to be
checked by those stones of circumstance and slander
which were being cast upon them.

At last the week came to an end. Now, surely,,
the waiting days were over. Surely he will come
to-day ; yes, surely he will come to-day !

Such were Lisette's thoughts on waking on the
morning which counted a whole week since that
last time she had seen her " brother." The thought
had been almost her first for nearly every day
since he had gone without saying good-bye.
But this morning it seemed to be more sure,,
more certain ; and somehow with the conviction
that that day he would come, the gloom and
loneliness of the last few days seemed to begin to
roll away. It needed only "his" coming to disperse
both entirely. Lisette did not know this.
It was too soon. The seeds were not yet even
quickened. No  that was to come.

VOL. m. I

But first there was the stones, the trampling
feet, the scorching sun of malice, which knows
not the evil from the good.

All the morning of that day on which she had
said so assuredly and hopefully, " He will come
to-day," Lisette was as blythe and busy as a
bee.

Stitch  stitch  stitch  the needle flew in and
out. But there was no sadness or weariness in
the picture this little seamstress made ; instead,
a sort of indescribable hopefulness, which was
strangely unlike the dreariness which had gradually
become part of the past.

All the morning she sat at her task, with an
energy which was a contrast to her listlessness
in days gone by. Mid-day came at last, and without
bringing any visitor.

She said to herself, for the hope was very strong
within her,  " He will come this afternoon. He
would know how busy I am in the morning."

And then she stitched bravely away till dinner
time. The meal which Sarah brought her she
ate quickly, like one in a hurry to start for a
journey. During those few days Sarah had
altered greatly in her manner. She who had
formerly been so taciturn and silent, seemed to
have taken quite a different attitude. It was as
if at last some influence had touched her rough
character and softened her unconsciously. She
would sometimes stay and chat quite sociably
with the kitten's mistress  offered her help in many
little ways,  in fact was  now that to an outsider

it would have appeared too late  everything which
the doctor had tried to make her long before.

The cause of the change it is easy to guess.
It is often from those from whom we least expect
sympathy that we receive it, when the rest of the
world turns coldly from us.

Sarah knew that ere long the " secret " Which
was known to so many would bear its fruit, and
in her blundering way she was trying to show
that here at least was one who did not believe
the tales which were afloat.

Believe ! She believe those ugly whispers !
There was no need to ask the question. If her
manner did not speak for itself, at least there
was that muttered whisper which day after day
she repeated, after any interview with Lisette, 

I don't believe it. It's all a pack of lies, and
I've a very good mind to up and tell them so," she
would say.

But beyond, by way of emphasis, breaking one
or two articles of fragile make in thus expressing
her opinion, she made no further stand against
the evil. Perhaps to atone for her unusual gentleness
when with Lisette, or perhaps because
of the equally unusual disturbed state of her
thoughts, Mrs Spicer's list of " breakages " to
be deducted from her wages, made pay-day for
Sarah, at least, a mockery.

This did not tend to calm her excitement. She
persisted in her resolute " I don't believe it,"
uttering the same at odd times. She did so on
the day in question with more vehemence than

usual, when, early in the afternoon, she found occasion,
as she often did now. to run into the
third-floor front, to see how its inhabitant was
getting along," as she phrased it.

Lisette, although it was not a holiday  why
should it be !  was in holiday trim, dressed with
even more care than on that same day a week
before. The grey dress, brightened by knots of
rosy ribbons  one placed among the fast-growing
curls  a mode of decoration which she had not
used before, because it reminded her of the old
days, and which suited her well, a white rose at
her throat, the rest in a vase on the table beside
her, and her needle flying in and out faster and still
faster.

She had flung the window wide open  for the air
was very warm, the sun pouring down with great
force, and a grey look in the west, which to the
weather meant mischief before long  and drawn
her chair close to it, as if eager to catch every
breath of the cool, refreshing breeze  every warm
sunbeam, which came from without. The flush
in her face was more distinct than ever, her eyes
bright and clear, and her whole face full of a
sunny happiness which was fast giving it back its
old beauty.

She was singing, too  this time in English 
some pretty little ballad, which sounded doubly
sweet in her broken words. She was not now afraid
that anyone might overhear her. Every now and
then she would glance down the street as though
expecting someone, and then go on working faster

than before, as if she were sewing into her task
the moments which seemed so long in passing.
When Sarah entered the room, her needle was
still for a moment, and she had rested her head
back in the chair, lost in thought. The sunshine
was touching her face and hair softly  almost
-caressingly, the scarred cheek hidden by her
hand, and the golden brown curls forming as of
old a clustering halo round her forehead. Sarah
must have entered the room more softly than
was her wont, for she had stood for some moments
looking stolidly at her little friend, thinking,
in her dull way, that, in spite of all that
slanderous tongues were saying, she whom they
-called by a very ugly name,  unfit to live beneath
the same roof as honest people (zee., this does not
include the young man in the attics), was sweeter
md fairer to look upon than those models of propriety
on the lower floors.

I think she dimly realised just then that there
was some transformation gradually going on in
this strange little invalid  a transformation which
made the gathering clouds seem all the more
cruel and gloomy in their darkness.

I don't believe it," she said, half aloud, for
once forgetting the injunction which of her own
free will she had laid upon herself  namely, not
to be the first one to set the ball rolling to the
foot of the hill ; " I don't believe it ! "

At the sound of her voice breaking the silence,
Lisette started up from her reverie, half unconsciously
rising to her feet, the warm glow of colour

in her face deepening suddenly, the name of him
who had been in her thoughts almost on her lips.

It did not, however, pass them. She sat down
quickly, with the colour fading slowly out of her
face  perhaps from disappointment that her day-dream
was not reality.

Then, as Sarah still stared at her with the-solemnity
of a great white owl, the faint shadow
of the pretty dimples which had once been there
played round her mouth as she smiled brightly  a
gay, sunny smile which took Sarah by surprise
but would have been valued beyond anything by
some one else  it was so like one of those which
the little fancy rider was wont to bestow in return
for any kindness in those days gone by  and
said gaily, 

What is it you see in me to make you look
so, Sarah? Is it that I am altered since that you
saw me last? "

Since I saw yer last ! Why, it's only an hour
ago. (I'd have been up before," apologetically, "but
the parlours took such a time over their dinners.)
Altered since then ! You're a-laughing, Miss Lizet."

At this Lisette did laugh in real earnest. Sarah
joined in, rubbing her big greasy hands up and
down her apron by way of accompaniment to the
chuckling sound by which she expressed her
merriment.

And I do not believe if you had asked either of
them why they laughed, that they would have
been able to tell you. I believe the true reason
was, that both felt irresistibly happy  the one

because it seemed no use  no good to be otherwise,
because I don't think she could quite help it 
the other, because she was glad her friend was so.

At last Lisette grew sober  at least as near to
solemn as it was possible for her to be just then.

I think you rude  very, indeed rude Sarah'
she said, with an attempt at dignity which did
not at all agree with the still dancing dimples.

Me  rude ! Lor' now, Miss Lizet, what lever
'ave I done ? "

Done ! Why, have you not make the most of
rude remarks about me ? "

Why, I didn't say nothing ! "

No, but you have the thought, and you look
it. It is very rude."

Lor' miss, 'ow quick you do read a body's
thoughts ; not as how 1 thought much,  only as
how you ' looked a bit spry,' just as if how yer
was expecting yer sweetheart."

Lisette returned the look of admiration with
one of equal candour, and said with a half smile,
half sigh, the former predominating,  " I have no
sweetheart, Sarah," adding, with a touch of that
sorrow in her voice which made her seem all the
more a child,  " I have no sweetheart, Sarah : I
am not pretty enough."

Lor' it ain't only the pretty girls as gets
chaps to take notice of 'em. Why, there's Polly
Flanders along the Row took up with by one of
them 'ere gents from the circus at the 'All of
Varieties, and she's ugly enough in all conscience
not that you're plain, as you will try and make

yourself out. Folks don't usually look up to
much when they've been shut up in a hole like
this so long as you 'ave. I won't say you 'ave,
but I do say as how now yer a-beginning to get
about a bit, I do say as how you're beginning to
look mighty different to what you were. That
'ere dress is better 'n the old dingy black 'un (I'd
rip the other up, if I was you,  make a petticoat of
it), and them 'ere ribbons is just nobby " (whatever
that may mean). " Why don't yer always
fig ' " (another word of rather obscure meaning)
yourself out Hke this always ? It'd be better for
yer, I'm thinking; ye're looking as spry as can be ;
and when yer hair grows, and yer has more going
out than just now, I guess you'll be fine  won't
you now? "

Lisette laughed in childish glee, and touched
the bright ribbons she wore caressingly with her
fingers, with a look on her face which moved
Sarah to touch the short golden brown curls
softly with her big, coat-se hand.

She did not speak, but there was a queer expression
in her eyes, as if she was trying to make
out some idea which had just entered her mind 
I suppose dragged in by the previous one. So
brilliant was this last, that it was some moments
before she could put it into words. Then she
began with strangely enough a contrary statement
to that which had so often been on her lips
lately.

"Lawks bless us and save us, I do believe as
how"

She got no further. The cry of '' Sarah !
Sarah ! " in some alarming proximity, advised her
of the nearness of her mistress. The sentence
which would have told Lisette so much  everything
in fact that just then there was to tell her 
ended in the usual " I'm a-coming  I'm a-coming."

Lisette was left alone once more. She sat fora
few moments listening to the sound of the girl's
departing footsteps, then with a swift step she
crossed the room, and reached down the little
cracked looking-glass from where it hung, and
carried it to the window.

Don't be angry with her, dear reader, and call
her vain and foolish for loving to be fair and
pretty to look upon. It was not for herself that
she cared.

Before, however, she could take more than one
peep,  catch sight of more than a face bright with
the glow of returning health and happiness;
there was again a sound of footsteps on the
stairs. She hastily laid the glass aside, and with
a smile of welcome  a little half-suppressed cry,
she sprang to the door  to meet Miss Jane
Withers and her friend come to settle the account.

Well, well  duty first and pleasure afterwards.

The duty lasted fully half-an-hour. Miss Jane,
it would appear, took rather a fancy to the little
seamstress, who was so gay and chatty. The
young lady was, I think, rather in the mood to
be pleased with any chance acquaintance, anyone,
in fact, who Avould listen to the " secret "

which she was so ready to impart with so much
smiling, gushing, and smirking. In this case, too,
she had an aider and abetter in the shape of her
bosom friend, who, in the most charming manner
in the world, drew from her the recital, occupying
as it were the post of interpreter, adding her own
comments and ideas on the subject, which certainly
did not tend to relieve them of any colouring.

After hinting and giggling for some time,
speaking a great deal of a certain " him " who
was evidently a very happy man, Lisette, as she
laid the dainty work on a sheet of brown paper
preparatory to folding it up in a parcel, made
some remark in reference to his name.

My love is a , and his name begins with

a J," said the bosom friend, with an attempt at
f briskness.

Oh, hush," said Miss Jane, looking at once
pleased and shy.

"I'll be as silent as the grave," was the joking
reply. " Not a living soul shall know from my
lips that J stands for  "

Here ensued a slight scuffle between the ladies,
during which, by way of revenge, the " friend "
managed to impart in a loud whisper to Lisette
the desired information, whereupon further playful
altercation took place, in which the little
seamstress seemed to take great interest, for she
stood by the table looking from one to the other
of the two squabblers, holding the string and
paper in either hand, without going on with her
business of tying it up.

It would seem, too, that she soon tired of the
silly nonsense, for she only asked one question,
to which she received an answer of some length
from the communicative bosom friend. This
answer related several passages in the life of a
circus clown, which I think would rather have
surprised him could he have heard them. At
any rate, they surprised some one. Some of
them, indeed, were so astonishing that the disclosure
of how he had spent those last 'few
days " was of very small account.

After this Lisette tied up the parcel. Rather
carelessly, it would appear ; for when the "happy
lady " and her friend reached home and inspected
in secret the " sandals " before handing them over
to the rightful owner (only a matter of form this,
as was whispered, such a pretty way to manage
an affair of the sort), they found the string had
been tied so tightly that it needed to be cut, and
the paper twisted so close that the lace and
ribbons were sadly creased. I suppose the little
seamstress was so interested in what she heard
concerning her employer's approaching nuptials
that she did not notice what she was doing.

Miss Jane Withers remarked that she had
thought the sewing girl rather a bright, pretty
little thing at first. She did not say whether
she had altered that opinion, and if so, why.

And while the two friends sat after walking
home through the heat, and talked over, with
more giggling and gushing, the future which was

entirely of their own planning  the hero in the
drama all unconscious of the part which they had
assigned to him  how was this same little seamstress
faring? Was she still sitting in the sunlight
singing songs of happiness, with that look of
joy on her face %

No, the picture she now presented was rather
like one belonging to the past  that dreary vista
of dead hope  than to the present, which so
lately had seemed so bright.

After her visitors had left her, she had sat
quietly down in her chair, and looked round her
with a strange bewildered look on her face.

Presently she began to repeat some words over
to herself, as if their meaning was hard to comprehend.
Then she rose suddenly, and crossing,
leant out the window ; but the sunshine no longer
found any reflection in her eyes. She put her
hand to her forehead and pushed her hair back
with trembling fingers, while her teeth met over
her lips as if she were in pain. The colour had
slowly faded from her cheeks, and her breath came
and went quickly.

For a little she waited to let the breeze fan
her cheeks, but the air was still  no breath of
wind came to her relief. Then her glance fell
upon the little mirror which she had laid aside.
Steadying herself by the curtain, she stretched
out her hand and took it up, standing so that
the sunlight, which seemed suddenly to have lost
its warmth and gold  to have become pale and
cold as moonlight  fell upon her.

For the brief space of a moment she looked
down at the reflection the glass bore. How-changed
from that of a short half-hour before.
The bright face of a child of unconscious happiness
was gone  in its place the white, wan one
of the girl who had been " so lonely with no
one to love her"  in the days gone by  the face
of one who had been confronted with some great
truth  too great to be realised all at once.

A moment the dull haggard eyes gazed on
the scarred countenance  the scar showing with
double clearness against the pallor  till suddenly
they met the glance of those in the glass.

An instant  the look which told all was returned
 then, letting the glass fall to the table,
Lisette fell upon her knees by the window, hiding
her face in the curtains, which, by a strange,
uncontrollable impulse, she had drawn over the
window, shutting out the sunlight.

Down, down, she crouched down, not wildly as
she had once done when in grief, but slowly, like
one who sinks under a heavy load. And there,
kneeling alone in the shadow, she whispered, with
every drop of blood in her body burning her cheeks,
I offered to kiss him ; oh, why have I been so blind I ""

Presently she started up and pulled aside the
curtains again. A change had come over the
world, it seemed, in those few moments. How
close it was  the still air seemed full of sultriness.
Not a breath of wind was stirring. The
sky had gone grey and sullen, the sunlight was
gone; in its place a sort of lurid haze, which dazzled

the eyes and scorched the dusty pavement. The
people in the street below looked up anxiously at
the sky, and hurried on their way as fast as the
stupefying heat would let them. Lisette leant far
out the window, but no coolness was to be found.
Suddenly she moved across the room, lifted down
a shawl and a little black hat from a nail behind
the door. The white fleecy wrapper and pretty
hat lay unheeded on a chair. She was going out
out into the air : the atmosphere of the house
seemed as if it would choke her.

She passed down the stairs without meeting a
soul, for Sarah and Mrs Spicer were engaged in
that most important of all lodging operations 
the concoction of tea for the parlours  and slipping
quietly out of the street door, closed it quietly
behind her.

She had no idea where she was going, no
thought as to whether her strength would carry
ber, only a wish to get away from the house. At
any moment he for whom all day she had been
watching might come, and she could not face him.
No, not yet.

She walked resolutely, even quickly, down the
street in the opposite direction to that in which
ber visitor might be expected to come.

At the corner she met her fellow lodger, the
young man from the attics, lounging along in his
usual dilatory fashion. He stared fixedly at her 
for, unlike when starting for her expedition on
her birthday, she had not thought of putting on a
veil, and her white features, on which the scar

showed more plainly than ever, attracted his
attention  and then nodded familiarly, and half
paused, as if to address her.

But she drew away from him and passed on
quickly in the glare, which was momentarily growing
duller and duller, while, although the traffic in
the road was the same, the noise of it all  at least
to Lisette's ears  was deadened, muffled.

She hurried on in her aimless' errand ; as she
walked, drawing more than one glance and comment
to her pale face and strange manner; but she
heeded nothing, only went on  on  on through
street after street, knowing and caring not whither.

And presently, as she walked, she felt a heavy
splash of rain upon her cheek, followed by another
and then another, till at length the long-threatened
storm was upon her. But still she hurried on.
People in front, behind, and on all sides of her,
ran like mad to every available shelter ; but she
looked quietly after them, still going on  on, while
the drenching rain beat down upon her. She
never heeded how it began to penetrate her
shawl, to drench her hat and stream down her
face. Suddenly, as she was in the act of crossing a
street, hurrying to get out of the way of two cabs
advancing in opposite directions, a glare of light
flashed over the sky, followed by a loud peal of
thunder.

The girl started, and came to a standstill in the
middle of the road. The two cabman, whose
horses had shied violently, called to her to get
out of the way, but she was dazzled and blinded,

and could not pay any heed to the directions.
Another moment and the two vehicles had dashed
by ; as they did so she fell to the ground with a
cry of pain. The wheel of one of them had
knocked against her, sending a sharp pain up her
back, recalling the old days of agony. One or
two people who were passing came to her aid, but
almost without their help she staggered to her
feet and set off again on her journey.

This time, almost without knowing it, she turned
in a homeward direction, and presently reached
Wicker's Row. The ladies in the parlour were
just stepping into a cab which was at the door,
and drew back in horror from the bedraggled
figure who brushed past them in the hall, wondering
who she could be.

She climbed the stairs, each step slower and
slower, and reached her room unquestioned. She
went in and shut the door, and began, in a mechanical
sort of way, to take off her wrapper and
dress, now heavy with the rain, and clinging to
her, but she was so cold she did not feel them.

She was like a child who knew she had done
something foolish, and wished to hide the act. A
few minutes later she had hidden in a corner the
wet clothes, and donned the little black dress of
old. This done, she sat down in her chair, and
looked round her like one in a dream.

It was thus Sarah found her when, half an hour
later, she looked in for one of her stolen chats. It
was too dark  for the storm had not quite passed
over, and the dusk was coming on quickly  for

the girl to see her face plainly, but the sound of
her voice, when she gave some random answer to
her questions, struck Sarah as being unlike what
it had been but a short time before.

At first she paid no heed to this for a little,
thinking the storm had upset her nerves a little,
but presently, as she went on talking, Lisette
shivered violently.

Why, what's up with you % " asked Sarah,,
breaking off in her sentence, and peering through
the gloom at her.

It's nothing," said Lisette, trying to control
herself, but she seemed to have a fit of shivering,
and her teeth began to chatter violently, and at
length she was obliged to own to Sarah that both
her head and back ached not a little.

The girl made her lie down, while she went and
fetched what was to her a remedy for all ills  a
cup of tea. But this did not seem to take any
good effect. Lisette still seemed languid and
drooping, shivering violently from time to time.

I tell you what it is. Miss Lizet, you've got
a cold, that's what you've got, and the best thing
you can do is to go to bed this very minutes'

Lisette resisted this command at first, but as
the girl would not be denied, allowed her to help
her to undress.

Once her head on the pillow, she seemed inclined
to sleep.

I'll look in again by-and-by," said Sarah, inwardly
expressing herself rather strongly against
the storm, the effect of which had been so dis-vol.
III. K

amorous, " and if anyone comes, I'll say you can't
see 'em."

"Very well," said Lisette, turning away her
face.

A little later, Jerry came at last ; but oh, if he
had only been a little sooner.

SLANDEROUS TONGUES.

And why did not Jerry come sooner? Why did
he stay away at all, and invent such a pack of lies ?
I may as well explain the meaning of the masquerade
at once. We know the task which our
hero had voluntarily taken upon himself,  the misunderstanding
which he had not attempted to
contradict, which had made the task easier, by
allowing him to pass for the sick girl's brother.
Otherwise, how could a friendship such as theirs
have prospered ? Jerry was no fool in his dealings
with those around him. He had not knocked
about the world for so long without learning
pretty nearly all there was to learn of its downward
paths. He knew only too well how many
grains of evil go to one ounce of good. He was
not given to be hard upon his fellow-men, but he
valued them by a standard which time and experience
had raised ; and being strictly just, did
not for a moment expect that they would rate
him any higher than themselves. Why should

he be thought any better than the rest of hi
fellow-men? Were not his life, birth, bringing-up,
and daily association such as rather to discredit
the idea, than otherwise ?

It would seem, then, that if he feared what
tongues might say, he should have passed by on
the other side of the way, rather than have had
anything to do with the sick girl,  have left her
as he had found her, alone and cheerless, because
the world  meaning those around her and him 
might imagine mischief This was the view of
the matter which had appeared to Jerry when he
first realised the desolation which he had lighted
upon. Here was this girl, she whom he would
have given so much to serve, in ever so small a
way, a stranger and helpless in this big city,
without a friend near her, or anyone to put out a
hand to save her from the dreariness which was
gradually drawing round her ; and he  because
the world said, " Nay "  must, if he cared for what
might be thought and said by those who judged
their neighbours by themselves, go on his way, leaving
her alone and friendless as he had found her.

Jerry, we know, was but one of the rough-and-ready
sort ; but there were many who, with his
sort of self-pride, would have shrank from treading
the narrow path which lay before him. They
might have feared for themselves, and for the fair
young life thus voluntarily taken under their
charge, and rather than run the risk of such a
charge, had turned coward and fled from it. But
Jerry was not one of these. He was not one to

shrink from the task. His honesty and bravery
would not let him, even if his love for this poor
girl would have made it possible.

He did not look into his mind, but into his
heart for guidance in the matter, and once his
decision taken, he was as fearless and bold in the
cause he had undertaken as any knight of old,
though he did not don his lady's colours, and prepare
to do battle with his good broadsword with any
who dared so much as breathe a word against her.

People talk a lot about the good old days of
chivalry. I, for one, believe as dauntless a spirit
and as fearless a heart can beat beneath a rough,
seven ragged jacket, as beneath some coat of
glittering mail.

Be this as it may, Jerry quietly, without any
outward show, took upon himself the champions
lip of the poor little seamstress, and for her sake
fought a harder battle over self than is the lot of
every soldier in this working life. He was going
io fight for her against the world which had
treated her so hardly, and that meant his having
to use far more dangerous weapons than swords
or daggers, without any shield save his knowledge
and trust in himself, without hope of any
reward save the satisfying of the great love in his
heart, which would never, never die.

At first the struggle, in spite of the slowness of
Lisette's recovery, was, comparatively speaking,
an easy one. The evil he had most dreaded had,
by a simple accident, been for a time averted 
BOW, by an equally simple one, it threatened with,

double force. There was what people would calla
deception, which would lend colour to any
report which might be circulated. One tiny pinhole
of sunshine makes the gaslight sickly and pale.

We know how any underhand or double-dealing
was contrary to Jerry's nature, especially in the
present case. Falsehood and Lisette were as the
poles asunder in his mind, and bitterly he blamed
himself now for the false step which had caused
him to find shelter beneath the relationship which
had originated solely in Sarah's muddled brain.
I mean, of course, the mistake which made the
friends " brother and sister." The idea had been
purely a mistake : neither of those concerned had
set the ball rolling. What Jerry blamed himself
for was in not checking its course, since now
it threatened to fall upon not only him but his
sister, with double heaviness.

In what way, my reader may ask 1 The accident
which had disclosed the very innocent deception
was this. The happy drive on Lisette's
birthday had brought it about. It had happened,
not by any peculiar chance, but rather, as might
have been naturally expected, that the little
chaise, with its burden of happiness, in one of
the busiest of streets, had overtaken and passed
a foot-passenger who had, on catching sight of
its occupants, expressed some interest. This was
none other than George Epsom.

He recognised Madame Petite and Jerry at
once, but was somewhat at a loss to know who-the
third person could be.

The old woman driving out in state like that \
She never told me she had any friends in the
place I Hey, what does she mean by playing fast
and loose with me % Friends ! I didn't believe
she'd got one in the world, and doesn't want them.
Who the devil then is she with now, I wonder.
me, if I won't make it my business to find out."

Here followed a train of thought, in which the
little Frenchwoman was prime object ; but presently
Jerry came in for his share.

him," muttered the jockey, lounging

alone in his usual dilatory way. " What's she
up to to have anything to do with him. I hate
that fellow. Sets himself up for being better than
any one else, and I'd swear he's as black as the
rest, only he knows how to keep it dark. I'd give
my life to catch him tripping. I always thought
there was something up between him and that
little German girl that Hermann let in so beautifully.
I wonder how Miss Rosa is behaving. If
all they say of her is true, he'd better have had
little meek face. At any rate, he entirely spoilt
Jerry's hash for him, for I'd lay a fiver he was
fool enough to be spoons on the girl. She was
pretty and bright enough, cuss her. Put Petite's
nose out of joint with the guv'nor, and if I'd have
been Hermann, I'd have done just the same. I
wonder how she got on after that smash up. By
Jove I it was a sickener. She must be quite done
for. At any rate, she won't be fit for the work
again, I should think."

A smile of satisfaction  cold and cruel  crossed

the jockey's face as he calculated upon the injury
which the little fancy rider was likely to have
sustained. Pity and sympathy had no place in
his heart. He gave none and expected none 
having no thought that the day might come
when, strong and robust as he was now,
might need both himself and find neither.

Health and strength were his now, and he
fancied he could afford to strike his foot against
she who had fallen.

He went on musing in this way for some little
time, strolling down the sunny street along which
the pleasure party had gone before him, till suddenly
he came to a full stop, imbued with an idea.

This found vent in a string of oaths at his
own stupidity in not discovering some fact before.
Having thus relieved his feelings, he stood for a
few moments knocking the pavement edge with
his stick, apparently lost in thought. Presently
he roused himself and strolled on again, taking
this time note of the streets down which he
passed, until he came to Wicker's Row. Here
he paused again, repeating to himself the numbers
of the houses, at length knocking at one and
making some inquiries  not, it appeared, to any
effect. This he did many times, till at length
he reached Mrs Spicer's, where the reply made
by Sarah to his question resulted in his stepping
inside and interviewing " the missus," who, from
his manner, it would appear, was not unknown
to him.

At animate, the two engaged in a tete-astute of

some length, much to the curiosity of the "slavey,"
who, try as she would, could not overhear one
word. She was not kept long in suspense. No
sooner was her visitor gone than Mrs Spicer, by
dint of pious ejaculations and half sentences of
indignation, let out her secret.

Here was a pretty scandal!  a nice thing fora
respectable lodging-house enough to ruin the
*lets" entirely. If only the parlours  two prim
old maids  knew the truth, they would go straight
out of the house at once ! Their reason for remaining
so long at the house was because its
mistress had always been so particular. And
here was a mare's nest right under their very
noses  a scandal enough to ruin the character
of any first-class boarding-house (which that in
Wicker's Row certainly was not). What was to
be done? Virtuous indignation suggested violent
means  such as rooting out the evil at once ; but
this entailed a course which Mrs Spicer would
rather not adopt.

She turned the matter over in her mind, and
decided that the hushing-up process would be far
the best for her pocket  if not for her conscience.
So she determined to adopt it. But Mrs Spicer
was a woman, and therefore possessed a tongue,
which appendage had an unfortunate trick of
running away with its owner. In this case it
certainly did so. The result was that the
jockey's few moments of mischief-making bore
their fruit. If he had plotted for months to pay
off the old score which he imagined he owed

the little fancy rider, he could not have succeeded
better.

Not brother and sister after all ! Only a
trumped-up tale to hide a relationship which
would otherwise not have been accepted in a
respectable lodging-house I Could anything be
more disgraceful  scandalous? Just as if any
respectable person would live under the roof
with such a disreputable person as she, of whose
existence they had hitherto been in ignorance.

This was what Mrs Spicer called hushing the
matter up. The woman, I suppose, meant to
hold her tongue, but found the task beyond her
power. And so the secret leaked out. The story
of a noble friendship, which, by the tainting breath
of slander, was made to wear a cloak the colour
of which was dark and sullen, the strings tied
each day more tightly, until the knot seemed as
if it would never be unfastened.

It was upon Jerry that the shadow first fell,
and he was, in his unselfishness, glad it was so ;
for it was not so much the evil that he dreaded
a clear conscience need fear no accusation.
His one thought was not for himself, but how
the gloom might dim the sunshine which he
could not but hope was beginning to beam in
the life which he loved better than his own.
He had known how it might be when he first
took his task upon him ; but now that the blow
had fallen, if not unexpectedly, at least suddenly,
and just when he was thinking he had
not worked in vain,  come to dim the brightness,

lie knew not where next to turn his
steps.

Only a few moments before he had met Madame
Petite on the staircase, and learnt from her the
news, which, in his exultation at the mischief he
had effected, and partly out of the savage pleasure
which he showed whenever he had a chance to
torment her. The jockey had told her our hero had
been as happy as he told himself he could hope to
be now, which meant that the standard of content
was far lower than it had been once upon a time.

When he had parted from Madame, he felt that
he could not go and face Lisette after what he
had heard ; he tramped along through the crowded
streets, trying to solve the riddle in his mind 
How was this matter to end ?

Of one thing he was assured. So long as it was
possible, his little sister must be kept in ignorance
that anything was amiss. Hitherto she had had
no thought of evil, had trusted as implicitly as
was deserved. Could he have the heart to go to
her, and open her eyes to what she was too innocent
and childlike to have guessed for herself?

No ; at all risks, he must keep the knowledge
from her as long as he could, trusting in fortune
to favour him, as why should it not, since it had
so often befriended the knights of old in their
visible combats % He was the poor child's brother ;
he had taken the office long ago ; and he would
keep it, in spite of all that slanderous tongues
might say.

But this portion of the task was far more difficult

than even he imagined. We none of us know-how
bitter is the struggle against the world's
opinion which condemns us, until we are actually
in the fight.

It is the work of Sisyphus  the mass is against
us.

The very first visit that he had paid to Wicker's
Row after the jockey had so kindly imparted his
information on the subject to Mrs Spicer, was significant
to him of what must follow.

The averted head of the shamefaced woman
from the third floor seemed to tell him plainly
that she would now no longer look on him as a
friend, but rather as one whom even she might
shun as one to be shunned, even by those who
by experience have learnt to know evil from
good; the ready greeting of the bold-looking man
from the attics was even more suggestive. It was
as if he hailed a fellow to the band to which he
belonged. It was as well this view of the matter
did not come to Jerry until he was fairly out of
their reach, or I fear the torrent of passion which
it roused within him might have been too much
for his control.

It was perhaps as well, too, that he had not
been brought in contact with the cause of so
much mischief and unhappiness. The jockey,
either by design or accident, did not cross his
path.

There was danger in this subdued passion, this
dogged patience. A good hand-to-hand tussle
with the cause of his anger would have been a

means of letting off the steam which might have
saved much trouble and sorrow later on.

So the few days went by, and Jerry was no
nearer having a plan than before he had tried his
ruse  his pack of lies ! On the day in which
Lisette received the visit from Miss Jane Withers
and her friend, he sat alone in his lodgings, wondering
how on earth he was to find a way out of
the difficulty.

A true statement of the case resolved itself
into this  if his presence was to be the cause
of evil to Lisette, he must go away,  leave
her.

Go away ! That meant to give up the one
little ray of comfort there was left in his life, 
to give up his usefulness to this poor girl,  his
right of protectorship and guardianship,  the only
way he had of showing her that there was some
good in the world still. Leave her ! That meant
to leave her to fight the battle for herself, her part
in which he would have so gladly borne,  to leave
her alone and friendless as he had found her;
nay, worse, for supposing she knew the reason of
his desertion, might she not think it insufficient, 
think him mean and cowardly ?

And yet how could he stand by and let one
breath of evil taint the purity he prized so
highly ?

The struggle was a long and bitter one. But
self was defeated. Love  the honest, stedfast
love of a brother for a sister,  a fragile child in the
ways of the world  conquered.

Jerry made no vow  uttered no strong heroic
expression expressive of his sentiments, but deep
down in that poor bruised heart of his there was
a steady set purpose to do what was right,  at all
costs to himself to save Lisette from any chance
of ill.

This conclusion arrived at, he did not wait for
time to change his mind, but took his hat and
set off to Wicker's Row.

He would pay his visit as if nothing had happened.
However he would scrape up enough lies
to describe his doings of the few days he did not
know, and later on  say at the end of the week 
announce his intention of throwing up his engagement
at the Hall, to return to his old life. Perhaps
in the roaming life of some travelling show
things would seem easier. He would make whatever
provision he could for Lisette's comfort,  see
her safe in good hands, and then go away  not to
lose sight of her, but to watch over her from the
distance,  be her guardian angel, indeed. At the
thought, as he walked slowly on his way towards
Wicker's Row, he smiled a rather watery sort
of a smile, which agreed only too well with the
sleepless look on his face. This relaxation of
countenance attracted the attention of a poor
little flower-girl whose perishable goods were fast
fading under the heat of the afternoon sun. She
sprang up from the doorway where she had been
resting for a moment in the shade, and solicited
his custom. He looked down pityingly at her, then
did not fling a copper into her basket, or drop

some seed of flattery into her mind, but laid his
hand gently on her head, and spoke kindly to her.

I don't want any flowers, thank you, little
one," he said, " and I'm afraid no one else will,
unless you freshen them up a bit. There's the tap
near  what do you say % Let's see what we can
do."

And he turned down a narrow alley which
seemed to be unknown to her, and held the fading
blossoms under the cool dripping water, then
gave them back into their owner's charge.
They'll come up after a bit, if you don't keep 'em
in the sun."

The child stared with big eyes at him, but unused
to being so kindly and considerately noticed,
forgot to be bold and saucy, as she had been
taught.

' 1 never thought o' doing that. Maybe they'll
go now. I've only took twopence all the morning.
Here's one as ain't no use, it's gone too far.
You can 'ave it if yer like. Roses is so cheap
now, no one wants 'em," and she held out the
withered blossom.

Jerry would have taken it  thinking, I think,
of another flower which no one wanted  but ere
he could clasp it, a great hulking fellow lounging
by brushed against him, and knocking it from the
child's fingers, crushed it beneath his foot.

There it lay in the dirt, it that had once been so
fair, bruised and dead in the dust of the street.

The child bounded off after the man, and was soon
pestering him to buy, he replying, first by words

of coarse flattery  for the child was pretty in a
rough, uncultivated sort of way  then by coarser
oaths, for her to leave him alone.

Jerry turned away feeling sick at heart, thinking
of the other rose which he had chosen, instead
of something more precious. But he did not see in
its story a different meaning to that of the flower
on the pavement.

This little incident, however, had roused lira
from the reverie into which he had fallen, and he
became aware of the signs in the sullen sky.

"There's a storm coming," he thought  taking
off his hat and looking up into the sky,  " I'll
hurry a bit ; Lisette may not like to be alone
when it breaks."

Then into his mind came that thought, how he
must leave her to face the other storm, and his
honest heart cursed the slandering tongues which
had come between them  those evil-doers who
see good in no one. At animate he would go to
Lisette and cheer her during this weather's wrath.
It might be the last time they would be together.

He turned on his way ; but as he did so, the
splash of the first raindrop fell upon his hand.
He started to run, but in another moment the full
fury of the torrent was upon him, and breathless
and panting he obeyed the impulse which bade
him seek shelter in a shed near at hand.

At animate, he thought, "Lisette is safe from
this ; no doubt that big Sarah will go to her."

He did not guess that at that very moment
Lisette was trudging through the rain, exposed

to all the mercy of the storm, or he would have
gone out from his shelter and never rested till he
had found lier.

As it was, he stood in the shed chatting with,
a baker's man who had sought the same protection,
and did not notice how time was passing,,
till a chance remark made him aware of it.

As late as that," he said, starting up ; " why,.
I started nearly an hour and a half ago."

And although the storm was by no means
over, he set out once more on his way, passing by
a shop in which he saw the little flower-girl whom
he had befriended, with an empty basket, but a
face flushed and excited, as she tossed her head
and looked up into the face of the big, hulking-looking
man, who lounged over the counter beside
her and held a glass towards her. Jerry did
not see them, but hurried quickly on.

A few moments later he reached Wicker's Row.
The door was opened to him by Sarah, who started
violently on seeing him, as if he had been a ghost.

He began to say something lightly to her, but
was stopped by a look on her face.

Why, Sarah, what's the matter ? " he asked.
Has ' the missus ' being going it very much
since I saw you last ? "

As he spoke he attempted to pass her, but she
barred the way.

*' You can't go up," she said stolidly.

Why not ? " asked Jerry, turning suddenly on
her, his heart full of sudden fear. ' There's nothing
wrong ? "

VOL. ni. L

*' No," said Sarah ; *' but Miss Lisette ain't very
well. The storm's given her one of her old headaches,
and she says she won't see nobody to-night."

There was a meaning look on the usually stolid
face as the girl spoke, which puzzled Jerry for a
moment ; then he thought he understood.

So he said to himself, '* It's got to her ears.
They couldn't even be content with making me
miserable, but they must have at her. And she
won't see me again. Well, I suppose she's right,
I'll go."

And without a word he turned away out into
the street again. But his thoughts were very
bitter as he walked home through the rain, and his
tricks and jokes in the ring that night fell very
flat  I suppose because his heart was not in them.
He did not go to Wicker's Row that day or the
day after, but the day after that he called, not
with the intention of going in, but just to gain
some news  the errand boy, and source of his
former information, having been dismissed the
day before, on a charge of stealing the top floor
lodger's boots, afterwards found behind some
rubbish on the landing (they were straightway
converted by Mrs Spicer into capital, which she
did not send to the discharged odd boy to defray
the expenses of his loss of character. What the
future of this ill-used youth was, I do not know,
but if the tradition of a dog with a bad name was
falsified in him, it was through no exertion on
the part of his fellow-men).

For want of this means of communication, Jerry,

therefore, went in person to the Row, and was surprised
and dismayed to find that Lisette was still
unable to see him, being, in fact, far from well.

flies ready fears were at once aroused. He subjected
Sarah to a strict examination on the subject,
and succeeded in eliciting from her information
enough to thoroughly alarm him for the result of
this sudden attack.

He did not say much : but there and then, in
spite of the risk of being late at the Hall, whither
he was bound, set off in search of Dr Woodward.

He luckily found the doctor at home, just in the
middle of his tea. This meal, however, on hearing
what little Jerry had to tell, he left unfinished,
and went to pay his former little patient a visit.

What self-denying, hard-worked creatures
doctors are. And yet, because their presence
usually means trouble and sorrow, how many forget
that it is not they who bring, but relieve it, and
think lightly of services which cost so much mental
exertion, to say nothing of the amount of actual
labour which going from case to case requires, the
awful amount of responsibility which rests upon
them  a life loved and worshipped, or one of sin
and repented evil, may be cast away by a moment's
carelessness or forgetfulness  the never-resting
toil which leaves no moment of the day
to be called free  no hour in which the weapons
of defence and watching may be laid aside, for at
any moment the battle of life and death may have
to be renewed.

Jerry went with Dr Woodward to the door of

No. 19, the Row, then stayed walking up and
down outside till he should come out. The time
as when does it not, when we are waiting 
seemed like hours. In reality it was only a few
moments. At length, when it seemed to Jerry
that he could bear the suspense no longer, the
door opened and the doctor came out.
Jerry bounded to meet him.
Well ? " he asked eagerly.

The doctor looked rather perplexed than grave.
He did not answer for a few moments, then looked
up suddenly with those keen grey eyes of his from
inter his bushy brows, and asked gruffly, almost
angrily,

Are you her brother, or not ? "
I am not," replied Jerry.
I am her friend  at least I want to be."
As he spoke he returned the doctor's gaze with
one the frankness of which was almost defiance.
The doctor had just heard that tale, which had
made him look less kindly on his little patient, and
he was prepared to make it his duty to stop the
mischief which he suspected was the cause of the
attack of Lisette's. He meant to have spoken his
mind very freely to Jerry, but there was something
in this look which met his, that disarmed him.

He did not pretend to be a very advanced
student in the study of character, but if ever a
face disarmed suspicion and distrust, it was the
young clown's at that moment.

We know it was far from being a handsome
one  and no change had come over it in that

respect  but the resolute, open-hearted expression
in the grey-green eyes  the firm set of the
big mouth  the half-sad, half-defiant look on the
irregular features, made their common-plainness
be forgotten.

"Want to be her friend, do you?" said the
doctor, going to make certain sure. "And do
you suppose you will do it by bringing shame and
disgrace on her % "

He used hard words ; but he knew of old that
to probe a wound one must use sharp instruments.
And he acted rightly.

Jerry winced perceptibly under the blow  it was
so direct. The colour rushed to his cheeks  he took
a step forward, and raised his clenched fist. But it
did not fall. The doctor did not move, only stood
looking searchingly with his bright, far-seeing eyes.

This time Jerry could not return the glance.
A mist was before him. The colour fled from his
face as quickly as it had come  his lip quivered 
his hand fell open to his side, and he turned away.

The doctor made a movement forward.

Where are you going? " he asked.

Away from here," said Jerry, very quietly.
*' If my being there'll do her harm, I'll go away."

Then you don't love her % " There was a
trace of questioning in the doctor's tone, but all
the same it was kind, almost gentle.

It was too much for Jerry. He gave way.
Turning quickly, he confronted his questioner
like a lion at bay.

'' Don't love her," he said, in a hoarse whisper.

"Don't love her! I love her better than I've
ever loved a soul else. Don't love her! Why,
if it'd bring back to her what she's lost, wouldn't
I go straight to hell this very moment. Ay,
that I would, if only it'd undo what's done."

The expression on his lips sounded profane
and melodramatic, but the tone spoke more
truly than the words. Dr Woodward was convinced.
He laid his hand in a fatherly way upon
the speaker's shoulder.

Perhaps there's an easier way to put things
right than that, lad. I believe you are honest.
If I doubted, it was because one sees so much
evil one hardly recognises the good  but I
believe you're true."

At this Jerry's reserve gave way entirely, and
standing in the busy street, as man to man will
speak, he told the story of his love, which had
never yet entered any ears but those of poor
Smith, now far away, lost in the mazes of this-big,
busy world.

The doctor listened quietly and sympathised,,
though he said but little. Presently he drew a
notebook from his pocket, tore out a page
handed it to Jerry with a pencil, seemingly
bidding him write something. Jerry, however,,
said he was no scholar, so the doctor scribbled a
few lines himself, signing Jerry's name at the
end.

This note Jerry carried to No. 19, and gave
to Sarah, with the injunction to carry it to
Lisette.

A little later the two men parted  the one to
hurry off to some other battlefield of pain and
suffering, to fight over again the weary struggle,
which, even if he gains, will be but giving strength
for a future defeat, which, no matter how often
the former conquests, must come at last  the
other to go amidst fun and jollity, to take his
place in the ring, to joke and gambol like an
empty-headed brainless fool, while his limbs
seemed too heavy even to support him, and his
heart was heavy with the old aching pain.

But his audience knew nothing of this. They
saw only the quaintly-dressed figure, the painted
face. They had come to laugh, to be amused,
to be merry. If this jester was dull, his jokes
flat, let him stand aside and make room for a
bigger fool. This often happens in our lives as
well as in the ring.

The performance over, instead of lingering ashe
sometimes did for a chat with some of his
fellow - artists, or to watch with professional
interest the performance, Jerry hurried off home.

On his way he went into a stationer's shop and
bought a quire of cream-laid paper  the best to
be got  don't laugh at him, dear reader*  a bottle
of ink, and a pennyworth of nibs.

Reaching his lodgings he sat down at the table
and prepared, as might have been expected, to
write a letter. He did this very leisurely, and
yet he must have been inwardly excited or very
absent-minded, for he entirely forgot to take off
his hat.

It would appear to any one watching him that
this letter was goijig to cost him some trouble.
At starting he broke the neck of the ink bottle 
I should say the chimney of the little cottage in
which was contained the black fluid so called 
some of which he managed to spill over the tablecloth
 one of those many-coloured ones which
seem peculiar to lodging-houses  tried and discarded
each of the four nibs in turn, and at length,
selecting one at random, started on the paper.

This operation was, he found, far easier than
it looked, he not being much of a scholar, as he
said, but I do not think it was his want of learning
which stood in the way, but the state of his
mind, which might truly be described as chaotic.
He was in the enviable condition of having a
letter to write and not knowing what to say 
or rather of having something to say and not
knowing how to express it.

Added, therefore," to his pen shying violently,
as he expressed it, almost every moment at some
capital or extra long words, which it seemed to
look upon in the Hight of hedges and ditches, he
made so many false starts, each time taking a
fresh field, .5., sheet of paper. Once he heaved
a sigh, ran his fingers through his short hair, and
discovered his hat.

He took it ofi", and, looking absently at it, laid
it aside, took a fresh sheet of paper, stared at
it blankly for several moments as if he expected
the words in his mind by some unknown process
to imprint themselves upon the page, roused himself,

made a dash with the pen at the ink  dipping
it " up to the hilt "  then held it suspended
in the air, while he bit his nails thoughtfully.
Presently he was roused again by finding himself
digging the nib into the table  an action which
did not tend to improve it  and again set to work.
It was truly comical to see him bending in a rick
neck attitude over the table, grasping the pen
resolutely in his big clumsy fingers  by this time
plentifully besmeared with ink  his face going into
all sorts of grimaces in his attempts to fulfil a
task which in these enlightened days would have
been nothing to a child of one quarter his age.
Such were the fruits of being born before the
School Board had come into power.

Jerry's attempts at penmanship were anything
but successful. He had no idea the task would
have proved one of such difficulty, but he struggled
manfully on, by-and-by untying his necktie 
which, of course, was indicating its wearer's mind
by being most obstreperous  and laying it aside.
After this he seemed to get on a little better 
actually wrote three consecutive lines on one
page, of which achievement he was so proud, that
in flourishing his pen over it he succeeded in ornamenting
the whole with half a dozen big blots,
which he tried in vain to remove with his handkerchief
 not, I am bound to say, with any beneficial
results.

This failure upset him not a little. He got upstretched
his legs, which were stiff with the
cramped position in which he had been sitting.

Had he been in a more jovial frame of mind he
would have tried what a somersault would do to
ease the joints." As it was, he walked quickly
up and down the room several times, causing dear
Miss Jane, who, as usual, was lingering in the
passage, a severe heartache least he should be ill,
and at last, moved by a sudden impulse, flung off
his coat, plunged this head into a basin of cold
water till every hair of his head stood up like a
bristle with a dew-drop at the end of it, and after
shaking himself like a dog, sat down once more at
the table.

By this time his numerous false starts, shying,
and backing, had made such a hole in his quire of
paper, that if he did not "go a-head" a bit this time,
it would be necessary for him to lay in a fresh stock
of materials. But it was now so late that most of
the shops would be closing, if not closed, so that
if he wanted to write his letter at all, it must be
on the one remaining sheet. . This perhaps accounted
for his preparation.

He looked ruefully at the torn and crumpled
scraps with which by this time the table and floor
were littered, then drew the unused piece towards
him, and without giving himself time to think,
wrote whatever came first into his mind  which
meant the red-hot phrases which came straight
from his heart. It is a queer picture he presents.

His legs have twisted themselves round the
table leg in a way that gives one the cramp
to see, so uncomfortable it looks  at his best he
never was gi-graceful, as we know ; his back is bent

ill another awkward cramp-producing position ; his
head is bent so low that the bone stud in his sadly-crumpled
shirt-front is leaving a big dent in his
chin ; the water from his hair is trickling down his
neck ; his shirt is open at the neck, showing his
brown throat ; his sleeves rolled up to his elbows,
displaying a pair of muscular brown arms ; his
eyes are wide open, staring down at the page, his
eyebrows almost meeting over them in wrinkles
which pucker his low forehead ; his cheeks are now
puffed out, now drawn in ; his mouth seems doing
its best to cover the whole of his face by its distortions,
but his stumpy inky fingers resolutely
grapple the pen as in a vice, and the words are
fast flowing from beneath it.

And what is this important document upon
which he is so busily engaged ?

It is intended for no eye but that of her to
whom it is addressed, but we may look over his
shoulder without his knowing. What we read
is this. I correct the spelling, which was not of
the best.

My " (scratched out) " dear Liz,  Don't think
me bold-like in writing you a line. I hadn't meant
to, only I've got something particular to say to you
leastways, something as I wants to say, which
I hope you won't take amiss, knowing as you
do how pleased I'd have been to say what I've
got to say if I could have seen you for a bit,
which, as I can't, I must write, though how I'll
get it on to paper I don't know, seeing I ain't, as

you know, anything of a scholar. Well, I saw
the doctor to-night, and he told me about your
wanting to go into the hospital, which, I says with
him, would be best, perhaps. They'll bring you
round sooner there than anywhere. Don't you remember
how they pulled Will Breakneck through
when he broke his collar bone in the thirty feet
fall, and  But this ain't what I wants to say.
What it is, is this  don't read any more if you
haven't a mind  but I want to ask you if you've
ever thought you'd like to marry me, leastways,
if you'd like for us to be married now? I have
thought of it before, but I know I ain't the
sort of fellow a girl like you'd care for. But
you're ill now, and I thought it'd cheer you a bit
if you had a friend you could count on. I thought
we'd get along  brother and sister, like, as you
said  but you know now folks won't let us. It'd
be different if you'd let me be someone nearer. Be
my wife  marry me  I don't ask nothing more ; I
daresay you'll wonder why I ask at all. It's because
you seem so sad and lonesome ; you're ill makes
you so, but I'm your only friend, and I want to
help you, if only you'll let me. Marry me, and
I'll work for you till I drop : we'll share together.
I can earn enough for two. Will you let me ?
Will you trust me to do as I say ? I only ask to
marry you. I won't say a word about love. I
know yours is given, and if it wasn't, I'm not the
sort of fellow you'd choose. I only want to help
you,  to be your friend better than I am now.
When you are my wife, they won't dare to say

what they do now. What's the use of denying
what they say. They wouldn't believe it. Why
should they? It isn't likely they'll think me
better than other chaps. I know I'm only an ill-bred
fellow, come from nobody knows where,
a-going nobody cares. Why should they ? You
know what our life is ? It don't make us exactly
gentlemen. I ain't got none to speak up for me.
I never set up for being better than I am, so how
are they to know I don't mean no harm by you.
It ain't for myself that I minds particular what
they say. They might have known it Alas lies
to speak of you as they do  lies, wicked, cruel
lies, every word. I ain't good at speechifying,
but I do say this,  I hope I may die straight off
in the ring with the war-paint on, and that they'll
bury me in it, if ever I give them reason to tell
anything but lies of you. If you'd let me be your
husband, they'd have to hold their tongues. Will
you think over it a bites Don't hurry, and don't
think I'll think badly of you if you can't say ' Yes.'
Your obedient servant, Jerry Bolton.

 Pes.  Please excuse the blots and bad writing.
If it is ' No'  the answer  don't say anything,
we'll drop the subject."

That was all.

A queerly-worded epistle, in very shaky writing,
with a pretty liberal sprinkling of blots and much
scratching out and correction where the pen had
run away with the writer's ideas, and he had

had to pull up short. And yet, as one read it,
one forgot the sorry performance it was,  forgot
the queer figure the writer cut  his strange costume
 his plain k)oks  and remembered only the
brave heart which was thus laid bare to the core.

*<I don't ask for love, for I know yours is given."

The sentence was a little tragic in tone, but
it was the key to a riddle of a life which few could
have given so readily. Jerry, Jerry  as you lay
aside your pen at last, and say your task is
done, you little know that this bit of work would
shame many a deed which is recorded on a roll
of honour.

A few moments later Mrs Spicer answered a
ring at the bell of No. 19 Wicker's Row. It was
dark, and she could only see a coates figure,
who handed her a letter, saying, 

"Be sure and give that to Miss Hartzmann,"
and straightway vanished.

The landlady turned the letter over and over,
eyeing it with a curiosity peculiar to landladies.
It was too late for her to take it up  indeed it was
only by chance that it could have been delivered
at the house, Mrs Spicer being engaged in taking
a last prowl round her premises before retiring
to rest.

She therefore laid the note on the hatstand,
where it would be sure to catch Sarah's eye the
first thing in the morning. This done, she retired
to rest  of which, I fear, there was but little for
two persons connected with the writing and sending
of that same unpretending-looking note.

"GO AWAY."

It was the next day, about seven o'clock in the
evening, when Jerry at last went to pay his
promised visit. It may seem strange that, knowing
what he did, he did not do so earlier; but
although, as a rule, the worst is less hard to bear
than suspense, in this case Jerry did not find
it so.

All the morning he had been restless and uneasy
 full of all sorts of doubts and fears concerning
his last night's work. At one time he
wished it undone  called himself a fool and all
sorts of bad names for trying to force his attentions
where he knew they were not welcome, if,
after all, needed; at another, he persuaded himself
that he was right  that he he had acted for
the best, and Lisette would know that. Then
again he recalled, word for word, what he had
said in the letter  first terribly afraid that it
might be misunderstood  that he had not said
enough  that he had said too much : then trying

to reassure himself that it was what he meant,
and if any harm were done, he would explain and
correct all when he saw Lisette ; and then again
remembering how poor a scholar he had shown
himself  sorely afraid lest he, a great big clumsy
ill-bred fellow that he was, had been too
presumptuous.

With such doubts and fears he tormented himself
all day, until at length, as no word or sign
(as he had dared to hope might) had come from
Lisette, he could control himself and his fears
no longer. He would go and see her for the last
time  beg her forgiveness for having worried her
with his silly fancy, and say good-bye  for Dr
Woodward had named the following day for that
of her removal to the hospital.

Accordingly, as I have said, seven o'clock on
that Sunday evening saw our hero once more
seeking admittance at No. 19 the Row.

Sarah opened the door to him, and giving him
no time to ask questions, told him, Miss Lizet
was about the same, but he could go up ; she was
expecting him.

Expecting him ! How those words sent Jerry's
heart thumping against his side, till it seemed,
as he made his way upstairs, that he heard the
sound of three steps instead of two.

The tumult of feelings in his mind, the hopes
and fears, now all mixed up together, can better
be imagined than described.

What if, after all, his letter had accomplished
its purpose % What if Lisette were not angry 

what if  and at the thought his heart beat louder
still, till he thought it would burst  what if
Lisette had been waiting all day to give her
answer? What if she were waiting even now to
put the trust in him for which he had begged,
waiting to say that little word " yes," which
meant so much to him %

With a sudden bound he sprang up the remaining
stairs, and reached the third landing. Here
without noticing the sad-faced woman, who passed
him looking sadder and more weary than ever, he
knocked softly at the front room door.

A low " Come in " told him that his visit was-indeed
expected, and turning the handle with a
hand that trembled slightly, so great had grown
his excitement during those past few moments,
he entered, then paused to let his eyes get accustomed
to the uncertain light, for the days were
beginning to draw in, and it was already getting-dusk.


After a moment, he saw Lisette lying on the
couch by the window, her face turned to greet
him, white and pain-drawn, reminding him forcibly
of the day when he had first found her. And now
was he come to claim her entirely, or to lose her
for ever? The question was not to be answered
immediately.

Lisette might have been expecting him, but as
to the waiting, that was quite another thing.

Jerry waited for her to speak, I think, because
he was afraid that if he opened his mouth his-tongue
would run away with his thoughts.
VOL. III. M

Lisette's greeting might guide him a Httle as to
what he was to do.

She raised herself slightly, and held out her
hand with a wan, feeble attempt at a smile.

It is very good of you to come to see me," she
said, with just a touch of sadness in her tone, to
make it doubly sweet, at least to Jerry's ear.

No it isn't," he said deprecatingly. " I came
because I thought you'd like me to, that's all. At
least," thinking this not exactly the right way of
putting it, '' I came because  well," in despair to
find a better reason, " I came because I wanted
to."

"All the same, it is good of you," repeated
Lisette, as if she felt she must say something.
There was a silence, to break which she said,
** Won't you sit down % " an invitation not usually
necessary.

'* No, thanks. I ain't going to stay long," said
Jerry, adding, thinking he saw a look of relief on
her face, " I only ran in for a moment to see "  he
pulled up short, having nearly said what he did
not mean to  '* to see how you are." And he
went a step nearer.

He forgot Sarah had already supplied his information.


I'm pretty well to-night, thank you  at least
as well as I shall be, Dr Woodward says, until
they see what they can do for me at the hospital.
But I'm afraid it won't be any use. I shall never
1)0 any use in the world."

She spoke with such a return of her old de-spending

manner, that the hope which burnt in
her Steer's heart began to lose some of its
brightness.

Don't you fret," he blundered out. " They're
mighty clever at these hospitals ; they've pulled
folks round as is been farther gone than you have.
Look at Will Breakneck. How did you get bad
all of a sudden again ? I thought your back was
getting quite strong."

As he looked towards Lisette for his answer, he
saw a faint glow of colour rising to the pale face,
which was suddenly turned away from him. He
had touched on dangerous ground.

He had, he knew, mentioned Will Breakneck in
the letter. He waited a moment, thinking Lisette
might say something on the subject, but she did
not, and to cover the pause, he made some trivial
remark about the weather, and for the next few
minutes they spoke about any but the subject
which each had in mind.

Meanwhile, Lisette did not seem at her ease.
She played nervously with a frill of her dress, and
kept turning her face away, as if she did not care
to meet his glance.

And Jerry? Noting these signs with a quickness
which was born of his mixed feelings, his
heart, poor fellow, was slowly sinking down into
his boots. He stood leaning against the table,
twirling his hat in his hands, and every moment
feeling as if he must out with the question which
was on his tongue.

The time flew by in this fruitless chat, and still

Lisette made no sign, said no word to revive the
fast-dying hope.

Silence meant the refusal of his proposal  sa
Jerry had willed it. But he had already began to
think that a " no," no matter how uttered  even
contemptuously or angrily  would have been
better than this.

He could see, even while she tried to speak
calmly and quietly, that Lisette was excited and
seemed to be holding herself in control. What
should he do? While trying to answer this question
 which of course took no little time  he wandered
off into any amount of chit-chat, asking
questions the answers to which he did not listen
to, gave replies lie did not intend, got confused,,
broke off suddenly in the midst of a long, dry tale
he had drifted into, and relapsed into silence,
Lisette in vain tried to rouse him. He seemed
suddenly to have become dumb. He resisted her
attempts with what seemed to her coldness, and
even annoyance, until at last she too, with a
heavy sigh, became silent.

For some time Jerry sat staring stolidly at the
shabby carpet at his feet, nursing his hat on his
knees, for by this time he had sat down on the
edge of a chair in a most uncomfortable position,
longing to say what was in his mind,  to make
this uncertainty sure. The suspense was terrible.
The poor little flickering hope was fast dying
away, smouldering into grey dull ashes.

Presently he felt he could stand it no longer.
He must either speak or go. He would do no

good by hanging on by a straw. The good-bye
must come. The sooner it was over the better.
He rose suddenly  so suddenly indeed that Lisette
started, and the ready colour flooded her face.

This attack had evidently affected her nerves.

It's getting late," said Jerry, rubbing his hat
vigorously with his sleeve, for the sake of venting
his feelings in some action, " and 1 think I'll be
going on home."

It was only a quarter past seven ; but I suppose
he wished to make up for his want of rest on the
night before.

A pause. Lisette did not press him to stay, or
attempt to say good-bye.

There's nothing I can do for you ? "

Nothing, thank you," was the quiet reply 
recalling that scene in the stables so many days
vigo, when he had asked her those unnecessary
questions, and she had answered just like this;
only now she seemed trying to battle against the
hopelessness,  to speak almost indifferently. The
words brought back that night vividly to his mind,
and he felt the hope grow fainter and fainter, till
there was nothing but a tiny spark left; for keeping
which alive he blamed himself severely.

*' Then I'll say good-bye," he said, holding out
his hand ; " and mind, I'll always be your friend,
whatever happens. I'm a rough sort of chap, but
I'll be ready at any time if you want help."

Lisette again said " Thank you " very quietly ;
but the thin, hot little hand which lay so passively
within Jerry's strong one trembled suspiciously.

He had been holding it loosely, as if afraid to-crush
it, but now his clasp suddenly tightened.
He would not go without a word. Suppose there
bad been some mistake  letters often get mislaid.
Suppose this one had never reached her  suppose,
after all  Up flared the hope again. And
Jerry asked abruptly,  ** You got my letter ? "

Yes." As he spoke, he looked down into the
brown eyes which drooped suddenly under his-gaze,
and again Lisette turned her head away as-she
answered " Yes."

Jerry waited, but silence followed the one word ;
and he knew he had had his answer ; he knew
that, though it pained Lisette to give it, for in his.
earnestness he had kept possession of her hand ;
and though she tried to turn away he could see
that strange determined look on her face, which
made it impossible to doubt her intention.

Jerry stood for a moment looking down at her
in her helplessness, with a fierce, longing, hopeless
look in his eyes. He felt somehow as if he
could not take this answer. Why was he not
allowed to give the help which was so much
needed? Why must he go away when some one
he loved was so lonely and friendless %

If she had only been as gay and well as she had
been a short week ago, he might have felt it less-hard,
but now that she was ill and in trouble, he
felt he must make one effort.

He would tell her to forget all about the letter,,
to come away with him somewhere, where the
tales would not be known, where they would

begin life again as brother and sister, let those
think of harm who might. He would defy them ;
he would 

The words of passionate entreaty were almost
on his lips, but a glance at the white wan face
stayed him.

The thought of any breath of evil against
Lisette seemed to hold him back. The choice
was a hard one. Lisette decided it for him.
Looking up  perhaps wondering at his silence 
finding her eyes fixed upon his with that strange
look in them, she withdrew her hand suddenly from
his and said hurriedly, 

Did you not say to me it was time for you
to go % Do not let me to keep you. Good-bye ;
and thank you for being so very kind for me."

Her voice faltered a little, and Jerry said gruffly,
because of that lump which would rise to his
throat, 

"Don't thank me, there ain't no cause, and
don't worry yourself. You'll be all right after
a bit. Don't think anything more about meas
we can't go on as we have. Don't be angry
for my thinking about the marrying. I didn't
think you'd mind. I'm sorry what's done can't
be undone. You aren't angry with me  are
you?"

Poor Lisette ! Her face was hidden in her hands
now, lest he should see the flush of shame which
flooded it.

Angry with him for thinking of marrying!
This was the last drop of bitterness.

Lisette's bosom heaved convulsively  she was
fast losing all self-control.

I didn't mean to hurt you," said Jerry, his
voice also beginning to shake. " Don't fret, Liz,
it'll all come right by-and-by when this has blown
over."

Lisette once more held out her hand.

Good-bye," she said, and he knew she wished
him to go. " Good-bye  for ever ! "

Good-bye, but don't say for ever, Liz. We'll
be friends at least. No one can say a word again
that. We'll meet again some day. I'll always
like to know how you're getting on. You know
I can't help this."

No, no ! " said Lisette, with a sort of despairing
cry. " I know all of what you would say.
Go now. Please go quickly."

The look of pain on her face was unmistakable.
She had raised herself to a sitting position, and
held out both her hands, as if to push him away.

She did not mean to be unkind, and Jerry did
not think her so, but his heart was very bitter as he
turned to obey her.

Good-bye," he said quietly once more.

But something in his face must have touched
Lisette, for she sprang to her feet.

'' Jerry ! "

He turned and went slowly to where she stood
holding out both her hands for him to take, with
that pretty foreign gesture off which cold English
manners had not yet broken her.

"Don't think me to be ungrateful. I want to

hope you may be happy when you marry your wife.
I do hope it indeed. Good-bye  my brother."

This was the last straw. Jerry did not say a
word. The next moment he was gone.

The girl, standing alone in the darkened room,
listened till the sound of his footsteps had died
away on the stair, watched his figure, as slowly,
like one returning from a long weary journey,
he passed down the street, and was lost in the
distance.

Then at last she realised that she was truly
alone, and forgetting the lesson she had tried to
teach herself in the dark hours of the night, 
the shame which she felt because of the secret m
her heart  forgetting all else save that the goodbye
so lately spoken might  nay, it almost seemed
must be  for ever, she flung herself face downwards
on the couch, and wept the first tears of
womanhood  far, far more bitter than those of
childhood, whose mind is scarcely yet its own.

On the morrow, the parlour ladies, on their return
from their morning constitutional, found a
cab waiting at the door of No. 19  a rare occurrence
when they were not at home.

The mystery was explained. As they passed
up the stairs they met Dr Woodward coming
down, half supporting, half carrying a slight
figure, whose white pain-drawn face, with the
scar on one side, looked strangely pitiful.

Who can she be?" whispered Miss Mary, the
younger of the two maidens.

'' Hush ! " frowned her elder sister, marching-straight
on with an erect head, like a war-horse
scenting powder. '' It's that girl Mrs Spicer spoke
of. I see she is going. I told the landlady if she
did not, we should."

'' Oh," said Miss Mary, preparing to imitate her
sister, but adding, with a second glance at the
white face below, " but she does look ill, poor
thing. And so young to be so wicked. And yet
Dr Woodward seems to treat her kindly, and
Sarah tells me  "

** Doctors have to do their duty among all sorts
of people, and I wish, Mary, you would not listen
to so many of Sarah's tales. She is a low-bred,
ignorant servant, and this girl is not at all deserving
of your pity."

"Don't you think some one ought to tell her
how wrong she is," replied Miss Mary. " Suppose
I were to."

"Mary, what next? You seem to forget you
are a member of the Female Mission."

It was Miss Henrietta who forgot this, but Miss
Mary was awed, as she always was by the fact
recalled to her mind, and meekly followed her
sister, thus losing a chance of doing a good action.

By this time Lisette was being lifted by the
doctor into the cab, for he had found her so weak
that morning that he had decided to see her himself
safely to the hospital, which was some distance
from the town. It was only one of the
many kind actions which will be put down to this,
good, if rough, man's account

And so Lisette was going from the place which
had been her home for so long. She could never
have imagined how dear that poor little room on
the third floor had come to be to her, until she
came to leave it. She forgot that it is memories,
not walls, which make a place *' home."

It seemed to her when she passed the threshold
for the last time, that she was cutting away the
last link between herself and every friend she had
in the world. If only there had been some one
there to wish her God-speed,  to speak of the
time when she should be out in the world again 
if ever that should be  things would not have
seemed so dreary.

Even Sarah had not come to say good-bye. No
doubt this was Mrs Spicer's doings : she never
forgave the girl for her staunch defence of lisette
; but, all the same, it was hard to go without
a word from anybody. It was harder still
when in the hall, to see those two old young maids
stare fixedly at her, whisper perhaps some comments
upon her scarred face, and then turn their
heads away, as if the sight of it was painful to
them.

How much would a word of pity have been
worth to the poor, starving heart. But a member
of the Female Mission lias her character to look
after ; far more precious a duty than comforting
a stray, and to them lost, sheep.

But some one else who, as she had been taken
into her mistress's service without any recommendation,
and, furthermore, belonged to no

Mission or Friendly Society, did the duty that
her betters had left undone.

Just as Dr Woodward closed the cab door, with
an injunction to the driver to drive as fast as he
could, as the journey would rob him (the doctor) of
far more time than he could conveniently spare,
a big figure came flying from the house. It was
Sarah, looking more "slavish" than ever, in a dirty
cotton dress, tucked up to show a ragged petticoat,
a dirtier apron, a begrimed pair of arms and
face, and a duster over her head, beneath which
short, greasy locks of hair were indiscriminately
looped up by sundry very leaden-looking hairpins.

How she had managed to escape from the supervision
of Mrs Spicer's eagle eye was unknown,
but there she was, clattering down the steps, in
her haste almost leaving behind one of her 
boots, the elastic of which was only
called so by courtesy.

*' Stop a bit, cabby," she cried, hailing that
worthy with scant ceremony. " I ain't a-going tolet
Miss Lizet go without saying good-bye."
With this she introduced her big shoulders and
head into the cab, nearly crushing the window
frame, and causing Dr Woodward's hat to fall into
the bottom of the vehicle.

I couldn't get away a minute sooner, or I'd
have come like a shot. Missus has been that
rampageous this morning. She's set her heart on
doing a six weeks' wash, though we only had one
last Tuesday" (the logic of this statement was
hardly apparent), "and there won't be no peace

for the wicked till it's done. I left her taking water
out of the copper, that's been agone and bust itself
somewhere, and is a-flooding the scullery. A nice
mess : it'll take goodness knows how long to clean
np ; but there, I knew as she couldn't leave off, so
I run up to see yer. I'm awful sorry you're going,
but when you comes out of the hospital, you'll let
me know, won't you ? "

It was plain, by the way she was running on,
that the girl was trying to hide her emotion ; but
now she paused for breath, dived into her pocket,
and drew out a little flat pincushion made of two
pieces of cardboard, covered with silk (now very
faded and greasy) and sewn together. This she
thrust into Lisette's hand.

I wanted to give you something as a sort of
keepsake like ; but this is all I've got. It ain't
much, but I've had so many 'breakages' lately,
missus says there's nothing to pay this quarter.
1 suppose she knows. Anyhow, this is all I've got,
and you're welcome to it. I'll take care of Whispy
till Jack can have him" (the kitten had been bequeathed
to a poor little blind boy who lived not
many doors distant, that it might tend to cheer his
days of loneliness and pain  this fact taking away
some of Lisette's regret at having to part with this
little friend in her affliction). "He'll be safe enough
with Jack ; and they're sure to take to each other,
'cos they ain't either of 'em got no eyes. Mind you
don't turn out of the hospital till you're quite yourself
again. Don't let them doctors cheat you into
believing you're all right" (the representative of

that faculty smiled at this compliment). " There's
missus a-hollering again; good-bye, and mind you
get all right quick  good-bye."

And although the sound of the warning voice
was audible only to her own ears, which must have
been sharpened by use, the girl turned quickly
away. Lisette, however, bent forward with a look
of greater interest on her face than it had worn
all day, and laid a detaining hand on the fat, be-besmeared
arm.

'sis it not the habit to kiss the friends you like
at parting?" she said, perhaps thinking of another
good-bye which had been far more cold.

Sarah paused, looked in at her with wide-open
eyes which, instead of the usual sleepy expression,
had a sort of " doggish" dumb look in them.

I'm afraid I'm not over clean," she said, looking
down at herself ruefully  the first sign she had
ever shown of being conscious that her appearance
was hardly what it might have been.

'* That does not matter," replied Lisette, without
even smiling at the curious figure.

Sarah took up the corner of her apron, rubbed her
face vigorously with it, with the laudable intention,
I suppose, of removing some of its ornamental
designs  a purpose which was defeated, oving
to the ragged apron being in a far worse plight.

This done, she again thrust herself half-way
into the cab, gave Lisette's upraised cheek a sort
of peck, meant, I suppose, for a kiss ; then, perhaps
touched by feeling it wet with the tears
which would come from the homeless, friendless

girl's eyes, flung her arms impulsively round her
neck, and repeated the caress with a warmth of
which any one who had seen her a few moments
before bending over the wash-tub, would have
hardly deemed her capable.

The next minute she was left standing on the
pavement, looping up a stray tress of hair, of
which she always had at least one loose, while
she watched the cab slowly retreating in the distance.


It was not until it had turned the corner that
she became aware of that cry *sto arms," " Sarah!
Sarah ! " and when she did at length turn indoors
in obedience to it, there was what might have
been described as a roadway running down amidst
the smears and smudges on either cheek.

As she vanishes in at the door of No. 19 Wicker's
Row, so she vanishes from this story. She is only
a link in the chain which I have to forge. What
afterwards became of her I know not. But it is
to be hoped, for the sake of those who fear ghostly
visitants on this earth, that she outlived her mistress
; for certain it is, so strong was the power of
that lady's voice raised in the never-ceasing call
of " Sarah ! Sarah ! " that, no matter how soundly
she might sleep, it would not fail to bring some
response.

Meanwhile Lisette had already reached the
hospital to which, through Dr Woodward's kindness,
she had been admitted. He had deemed
the step necessary, as he feared, unless the case

were properly attended to, it would develop some
grave symptoms.

lu the ward to which she would be carried,
the nurses were already preparing for her arrival,
making ready two beds, Nos. 98 and 99,
which stand a little apart, in a corner by themselves.


In a little while along the street leading to the
hospital came two figures  one that of a tall,
gaunt, raggedly-dressed man, with a strangely
white, haggard look on his face  the other that
of a young girl, less poorly dressed, but none the
less likely to excite pity. She was very pale,
her eyes dull and sleepless looking, her lips
drawn now and then between her teeth, as if
she was in pain, and it was easy to tell by the
way in which she walked, dragging one foot
wearily after the other, that the exertion was far
too much for her.

She passed at her companion's side, but not
close to him  seeming, indeed, to widen the
distance whenever she was able  although he
from time to time turned and looked fearfully at
her, as if fearing her strength might not last out,
but she paid no heed. Once he spoke to her,
told her to take his arm for support, but she drew
back, shook her head, and struggled on.

At the corner of the street some one brushed
roughly against her, so that she staggered and
would have fallen, had not the tall man put out
his arm to save her. At his touch she recovered
herself by an effort, and leant against the wall

near for support, motioning him away when he
would have offered her any assistance.

After a moment she was able to proceed, but
still she refused the proffered arm, and they went
on their way as before  one needing help, the
other seemingly ready to give it, and yet far
apart from each other.

Just as they reached the hospital entrance,
the cab containing our heroine drove up, and
from it Lisette Hartzmann saw them part. The
bell had already been answered, and the door
stood open. Without a word or sign the girl
would have entered, but her companion, who had
stood watching her with a fierce, hungry lookin
his hollow eyes, sprang forward and laid a
hand on her. She waited, but did not turn or
look up at him, while he seemed to beg her to
say something by way of farewell.

Say it now, for God's sake ! It may be the
last time you'll have a chance. Before you're
well and strong, I may be gone. Don't look like
that. If you're not afraid to die, why should I
be? There's the money for you safe and sure.
It's honest enough, at any rate. Say it now,,
won't you ? " The fierce light in his eyes grew
brighter, and his face seemed to grow drawn
and seared with a look of mingled agony and
pleading. " Say it, for God's sake ! It's only a
few words."

"I can't," was the answer, in a low, almost
stern tone. " I can't say it."

And without a good-bye, or whatever it was
VOL. ni. N

he Ravished her to say, she passed in at the great
door with her burden of suffering and sorrow.

The man waited till she was really gone, then
turned down the steps like one in a dream, and
the next moment was lost in the crowd.

Lisette saw all this, and wondered what this
parting could mean  what were the words left
unsaid  wondered if the girl had any more friends
that she should refuse to say, " Good-bye  God
be with you," to this one who had begged so
hard for it.

A few moments later she was in the great big
airy ward, in one of the two beds in the corner
apart. The other one was also occupied, and, as
she laid her head upon the pillow, she found a
face which seemed familiar to her looking at her
across the narrow space which divided the two
beds. The face was that of the girl who had
entered before her.

But Lisette was too weary from her journey,
which had taken some time, to notice more than
this, and she was too weary even to be very sad
when Dr Woodward said good-bye.

The kind old man had done all he could for her,
and now left her where she would have every
attention and the best advice  in fact, she could
not be in better hands.

99 is your number," he said, looking down
kindly at her. Then turned away, promising to
come and see her whenever he had an opportunity.


So when he. had gone, Lisette called to mind

how much she owed to him, and how cold and few
her thanks had been.

*' Never mind," she thought, turning her burning
face over on the cool pillow  even so slight
an action bringing one of the soft-footed, gentle-voiced
nurses to her bedside with a cooling drink,
** I will be more grateful when I shall see him
again."

But the good old doctor never received her
thanks. Only a few days later he went to where
he would receive a higher reward for his good
deeds  and they were many  than men could give.

In rescuing from the very jaws of death a poor,
little gutter child  who spent the life he had
saved in misery and sin, he fell a victim to the
disease from which she was suffering. And he
who had fought the battle so manfully for many
another poor soul  who might, perhaps, have
wished that his skill had failed  was defeated and
slain when he fought for himself.

His life had been a lonely  some said a cheerless
 one, but one, at least, of those whom he had
tended, whose suffering he had eased, whose sorrows
he had cheered  the little disabled circus-rider
 did not forget to pray that he might be
accounted sound and able in soul by the greatest
of all Physicians.

So died another of Lisette's friends. And now
indeed she Alas alone  for in spite of her good-natured
offers, what. could Sarah do?

Yes, Lisette was left alone in that great citadel
of pain and suffering, where each subject pays silent

homage to King Death, to sHp down, down the
narrow path to the unknown Land which lies beyond,
to be snatched by firm, courageous hands
and resolute, brave hearts, back from the shadowy
portals, or to pass for evermore into the mighty
stronghold from which there is no exit gate to earths
While on the first night the poor little fancy
rider lay awake tossing and feverish, a loud cry
of agony and fear broke the silence of the night,,
and woke many a weary slumberer from her rest.

It came from the bed next to Lisette's, in which
the strange girl lay. She was asleep, and, no
doubt, in her dreams was living over again some
scene of terror in her life, for the cry was one of
mental, not bodily pain.

The nurses, keeping their patient watch, hastened
with swift, silent steps to her, to hush and soothe
her, gently and kindly, as a mother would her
child.

As one of these  a tall, graceful woman, with a
calm, peaceful face  passed quickly by the two
beds, which stood apart, her soft, changing dress
touched the foot of each, sweeping from the
hooks to which they hung two small numbered
cards.

Not noticing what she had done she passed on
out of the ward, to call for help to a poor soul
whose sands of life were very low.

A moment later, one of the younger nurses, a
quick-looking girl, went by, picked up the cards,
restored them to their places, and hurried on to
her duty.

So passed Lisette's first night in the hospital,
and many after like it.

The nurses remarked that no one inquired after
lier ; no one wrote to her, or sent her any of those
little offerings which were showered upon the other
patients by loving, anxious friends, who did what
they could to ease the weary time of pain and
suffering ; no one came to see her on visiting days.
She seemed alone and utterly friendless. They
did not wonder at it, for they saw many sides of
life in this world of suffering of theirs ; and they
listened to many tales of sorrow and bitterness,
and knew how much misery was possible. But
they pitied her because she was so young, and
were all the more gentle and tender with her
because she had no one who seemed to care for
her.

They knew that trouble of the mind will stand
in the way of recovery of the body, and they tried
to draw from her her history, to get her to speak
of the sorrow which they fancied was hers, but she
would tell very little  nothing, in fact, to give
them any clue to work upon.

She was patient always under the suffering she
had to bear, never complaining, but seeming weary
oh, so weary! Sometimes she would talk in her
sleep, now in her own language, now in broken
English ; now mourning some one who must have
died not long before, and now telling some one to
go away quickly, and yet entreating him to stay
not to go, not to leave her.

But a little later they saw that their help for

the body was not needed. Another influence was
at work. Wheels within wheels were turning
that mysterious manner for which none can
account.

The two white faces resting on the pillows of
those two beds in the alcove were often turned
towards each other, as if drawn by the sympathy
which the young and friendless and in trouble
cannot but feel for each other.

Scarcely a word, save good-morning or goodnight,
passed between them ; but Lisette never
turned that way without finding the big grey eyes
of the strange girl fixed upon her, as if yearning
to speak to her, perhaps to tell the meaning
of that cry in the night  the words she would
not say to the gaunt, haggard-looking man. Then
days of pain, which meant life or death, came to-the
quiet corner. Fever laid hold with a fiery
hand, while to the other came new strength, new
life.

Hour by hour the nurses watched and tended
them, never flinching from their task, working-like
the brave, good women that are to be found
at such posts, which require a stronger spirit, or at
least a more patient one, than even men can boast.

And at length the turning-point came. Con-
seriousness returned, and now weakness was the
only thing to fear. With consciousness came
thought, and the tongue which had before been
silent now gave the poor heart relief.

When the evening was drawing in, the two
beds, which stood apart, were drawn closer together,

and into one listening ear, in broken
sentences, the tale of sorrow so long withheld
was poured.

And not too soon, if it was to be told at all.
Not many days later, when those around slept
the sleep which should end with the morning,
the swift, silent footsteps passed down the ward
bearing a light burden with reverent, pitying
hands.

In the morning there was but one bed in the
alcove.

And a few days later this was empty. One of
the sufferers had gone out into the busy world to
begin the struggle afresh ; the other was where
strife and tumult are not, where " the wicked
cease from troubling and the weary are at rest."

"she's gone!"

And where, meanwhile, was Jerry, he who had
promised to be Lisette's friend 1

Two or three days after he said good-bye to
Lisette, he had an offer to join a good travelling
show, which was being started by an enterprising
manager, who had bought up Mr Petman's
"props," the owner still being unable to take
charge of them himself. Indeed, very little hope
was ever entertained of his being on the road
again, so completely had the attack from which
he suffered, told upon an already undermined constitution


He was, therefore, left upon the tender mercies
of his son-in-law and daughter, the former of whom
must, I should think, have been at his wit's end
to know how to support this heavy responsibility.

The turn which affairs had taken was any
but the one he had looked forward to. He had
expected to live upon the salary which he and
his wife would receive for their services, until the

time when Mr Petman might give him a share in
the show, which, later on, he (Hermann) hoped to
get into his own hands entirely.

So much he calculated upon gaining by this
marriage. Added to this, there was the report
that Miss Petman was heiress to a good fortune
on her old aunt's death, which might serve as an
additional prop to lean upon. Carl, however, did
not place much faith in it. But it so happened
that matters turned out the reverse to what he
had expected.

His plans about the show were brought to
nought, and he was fast beginning to think the
whole affair of his marriage a most disagreeable
affair  having to work for his relations did not
suit him at all  and Mr Petman seemed to have
known how to spend as well as gain  when a
turn of fortune's wheel befriended him, one, perhaps,
of the least deserving of her slaves.

Aunt Betty, the aunt  that is, the only one whose
worldly possessions entitled her to be remembered
by her relatives  died suddenly, leaving the whole
of the same worldly possessions  which she would
very much liked to have taken with her if she
could  to her niece, who by a number of little
artifices and ways had managed to make the old
lady believe that she was very fond of her, independently
of her money.

At any rate, somehow, the matter was brought
about, and Carl Hermann found himself the fortunate
husband of a lady worth as many hundreds
a year as he had formerly received tens from her

father. His pride m his wife, and his own good
sense in having married her, revived Hke magic
before the touch of wealth, and he became
straightway the most devoted of spouses.

In less than no time  that is, rather sooner than
one would have imagined so devoted a niece would
have got over her relation's death  the manager's
daughter was established in a handsomely-furnished
house in St John's Wood, where, with what
seemed unbounded wealth, added to a certain
showiness of person and manner, the manager's
daughter was soon in the full tide of fashion,
a very gay star in the firmament of society. Her
husband grew more proud of her than ever, and
a goodly number of admirers soon made the lady's
heart rejoice by the homage paid to her.

Meanwhile, how did Mrs Hermann fulfil her
filial duty % Her father, of course, was provided
for by her, and if anyone  of course of his old
friends  he was not known in society  had inquired
after his welfare, they would have been
informed that he was as well as could be expected
as well, in fact, as every comfort could make
him.

But where was he % Living with his daughter,
to be sure. And yet not one of the grand guests
who came and went from it ever seemed to know
of his existence. You see their rooms were never
higher than the fourth floor in the lofty mansion ;
they never even so much as glanced up to where
the stairs led still upwards. The servants, of
course, slept in small low rooms on the top storey.

But there was one room which was tenanted
day and night by a helpless, feeble old man, who
had only just sufficient strength to crawl from his
bed to the arm-chair near the window, from which
he looked out upon the busy world of fashion
which rolled by below.

His room had formerly been on a lower floor,
but it had been wanted for visitors, and he had
been gradually shifted higher and higher up until
he was lodged with the servants next the roof.

At first his daughter had paid him all the little
attentions their relationship demanded, but as
the number of stairs between their apartments
increased, so also did the distance between their
respective positions.

The child was the handsome, rich Mrs Hermann,
the father the broken-down circus proprietor,
whom nobody knew and nobody troubled about.
She drove about in her carriage and pair, gorgeously
dressed, surrounded by every luxury ; he
was left to the mercy of the servants, who, to do
them justice, did their duty so far as they were
bound to do. He was not, as might have been
expected, very grateful for the services they rendered,
and entirely destroyed any pity which one
or two of the better-hearted ones might have felt
for him, by his savageness of temper and coarse,
vulgar manners.

It was hardly to be expected it would have been
otherwise. He was not the sort of man to reform
his ways, because he was laid on his back and
could not help himself There was a sort of

dogged defiance about him which forbade any
hope of his developing a Christian spirit.

His Hfe, too, in the little room was not calculated
to soothe one who had formerly held reins
of power. His only enjoyment  books, and all
intellectual enjoyments, were forbidden him  was
to sit in his arm-chair  a crippled, almost deformed
figure, all his robustness gone, and listen
to the sounds of gaiety and mirth going on down
below.

It is little wonder his thoughts were bitter, and
that when  made aware by some chance word of
her ill-filled duty  his daughter, radiant in some
grand costume in which she was just off to some
high festival, would sip unobserved by her guests
up the narrow staircase to his room, that she met
with little return for her condescension in having
paid the visit, than cross words, ill-natured sneers
and jeers, which made the interview anything but
an agreeable one.

But we must leave the happy young couple to
their gaieties, and return to Jerry. He rather
preferred the roving life of a travelling show to
remaining in the same dull town, where, now that
he had no visits to pay, no sister to look after, the
days seemed to go very slowly.

He did not exactly know what good he would
do by staying where he was, for the memory of
his letter and that last visit to Wicker's Row
seemed to have placed an impassable barrier between
him and Lisette.

She knew his secret now, and was pained, if not

angry, because of his presumption ; and how could
they go back to the old relations, even if " the
world " would have let them.

Jerry tried to face the situation bravely  tried
to find its bright side, but  I am bound to confess
it  was in his heart utterly wretched and
miserable.

He tried, for the sake of his work, to keep up
an appearance of being the same as usual, and did
his best to believe that the opening of the old
wound had brought back none of the old smart
and pain, trusting to time to heal it again, though
never in this life would the scar be effaced.

About this time, too, he was deprived of the
friendly intercourse which he had formerly had
with his landlady's niece.

I do not exactly know how it came about ; buta
few days after Lisette left the Row, a story got
circulated among Miss Jane's friends, which led
to some doubt as to the authenticity of her reported
relations with the circus clown. It seemed
that in sweeping his room the young lady's aunt
discovered the remains of a large quantity of
writing paper, which had not been so entirely
destroyed as to prevent their being placed together
in order to ascertain their contents.

The result was a disclosure which led Mrs
Wilmington to question her niece rather closely
as to exactly how far her supposed suitor had
gone."

The answer she received, not being, as she had
hoped it might have been, sufficient to found a

breach of promise case upon, she coolly told her
niece that she had been a fool, and informed her
of her discovery.

Miss Jane's feelings can better be imagined than
described. She had hysterics for one whole day
laid on a couch with her back hair down, at least,
what of it was her own  and wept " quarts," as
one of her boy cousins described it.

At the end of that time, maidenly pride came
to her aid. She called Jerry a base deceiver, and
sundry other melodramatic names, which would
otherwise have astonished him could he have
heard them, and decided to turn her attention
once more to the barber's assistant.

To this end, that very evening she paid a visit
to his master's shop to purchase a pot of bear's
grease, a pomade which he had often recommended
to her in days gone by  to which days
she was going to refer with tears and sighs  lay
the blame of the coldness between them on his
shoulders, for not having taken a firm *' no " fora
trembling " yes."

But, alas! how bitterly were her hopes doomed
to disappointment. Entering the cutting and
shaving saloon, kept (of course) by an Italian
(I never could understand why the trades of hair-cutting,
umbrella mending, and ice selling seem
to be devoted to Italians), she found her ci-devant
admirer engaged in operating upon the
abundant tow locks of a young lady, with whom
it was plain to see he was on no ordinary terms
of acquaintance. Poor Miss Jane, he only bowed

quite coldly an J stiiSy to her,, and continued
brushing the flaxen locks of the other young lady
with great care, all the while whispering to her,
and seeming quite to have lost his former bashfulness.


Miss Jane controlled herself sufficiently to make
her purchase from another assistant, and then
turned to leave the shop at once, and for ever.
She had sense enough to see that her running was
over in this field. But she was not to get off
scot free. Noticing her presence, the baby with
the tow hair looked up into her admirer's face
(such he undoubtedly was), and with a smile of
childlike simplicity, asked some question which
was evidently relative to the glossy coil of hair
which Miss Jane wore beneath her hat, and which
the barber's assistant had formerly professed to
look upon as her own.

Now, however, he gathered his last love's
abundant tresses in his hand with a caressing
gesture, and said, with a professional shake of the
head,  " Oh, dear no  false  all but the top
roll."

Poor Miss Jane, how she managed to get out of
the shop she never knew. She had a dim recollection
of seeing the treacherous assistant fling
the soda doctored tresses of the baby-faced girl
over her shoulders, with a murmur of admiration
at the thick veil it made, while she looked after
the retreating figure of the bear's grease purchaser
with a glance of positive horror at anyone being
so base, so depraved, as to wear false hair.

1 may say that, all unknown to her, Miss Jane
was avenged in this quarter at least.

The continual immersion in soda had, later on in
years, when baby-face was Mrs Barber's assistant
(her husband never rose), the effect of turning the
flaxen locks a brilliant shade of red. In alarm,
the lady tried every means to make it return to
some more becoming hue, with the effect of making
it come out in handfuls, until she became so
bald she was reduced to wearing a wig, or going
about looking somewhat like a bald canary.

Miss Jane, however, never knew this, and her
heart was very bitter when she returned home
from Signer elle's that night ; she determined,
however, to bear up,  to invent some
story to account for Jerry's (supposed) heartless
conduct.

Her aunt, however, saved her the trouble of
putting her imagination to work, by telling the
truth to a very old friend. The result of this was
that Miss Jane suddenly discovered she was very
much needed by her family, and departed in some
haste to gratify their desire.

The truth was, her aunt's abode was rather
*' too hot " for her, and so she left. Jerry was
rather surprised to hear of her flight, but not being
just then given to holding much communication
with those around him, he never learnt the truth
of the matter, which, perhaps, for, his peace of
mind, was just as well. For there is no knowing
but that in his then unsettled state of mind, the
knowledge of what his unreturned love for Lisette

had cost him, rather than have any one endure
like pain for his sake, he might not have offered
himself as a sacrifice for a fault he had not committed
 and married Miss Jane.

The saints forbid !

Fortunately there was no occasion for the saints
to trouble themselves, as the banns were never
put up. Nothing just then was farther from
Jerry's thoughts than the idea of marrying. He
had made up his mind completely, now that he
had missed his turn, and he meant to "cut" the
business entirely, and get along through life as
best he could with his old tricks and turns, ready
to wait quite patiently till he got the signal for
his hand-over-hander into the next world.

Meanwhile he tried to take up his old ways just
as he had left them off before Lisette had come
and changed him from what he was, but it was a
hard task, and he had to struggle manfully on.

The worst of it was, that there seemed no end
for him to work, for every one knows how listlessly
we fight when defeat and conquest are alike of
little value to us.

When Lisette should be well again, there might
be some interest in keeping guard over her from
the distance, but till then there was nothing for
him to do but to wait. He had been to see Dr
Woodward, who had wished to hear personally from
him the result of the interview which he had advised
him to have with Lisette, but already the doctor was
sickening with the disease which was to take him
from the midst of his work. He could therefore only
VOL. III.

send down a message to Jerry, who went away repeating
the No. 99 to himself, and the assurance he
had received that Lisette was well cared for where
she was, and that there was very little to fear.

He would have liked to have gone to inquire himself
at the hospital, but it seemed like distrusting
the doctor. Besides, there was the memory of that
Go away  oh, please go away," and the motion
of the thin white hands, seeming to tell him he
was not needed.

Dr Woodward had promised to let him know if
he could be of any use, or if Lisette should take
a turn for the worse, and had also promised to see
what he could do towards getting her some light
employment when she left the hospital.

So Jerry trusted to him, not thinking that the
enemy he dreaded for others was already overtaking
the old man.

Three weeks went by  a long time when it
means the record of the journey along the narrow
path of sickness ; and as there were no news, Jerry
knew things were going on all right.

A day or two later, however, he began to think
he was silly to trust so blindly to fate. Supposing
the doctor were worse, unable to let him knows
anything were wrong  supposing the grave
symptoms which he had feared, had developed
in Lisette's case  supposing  Jerry did not wait
for many more suppositions, but, full of fears,
started off to the doctor's house. He reached it
only to hear that the old man was dead.

Jerry was unfeignedly sorry to hear this, for he

knew how good a friend Lisette had lost. But
he did not stay even for regrets, but started off
-at once to the hospital, determined to gain some
news of the sick girl, trusting, hoping that the
foreboding of evil in his heart would prove but
the idle fancy of his weary brain.

Why should there be anything to dread? Dr
Woodward had only said there might be something
serious come of this second attack,  that
fever was above all things to be feared  but he
might have been wrong.

Yet his heart was beating fast as he mounted
the stone steps of the hospital, and made his way
to a little room where one or two gentlemen were
talking together, and where, at a small table,
busily writing, was a young man to whom he
addressed his inquiry.

"No. 99," repeated the young fellow, pulling a
big book towards him, and running his finger down
the page. " No entry to-day. Must be a mistake."

No," said Jerry hoarsely; " 99 was the number.
I ain't likely to have made a mistake."

"Anyhow, 99's empty now," said the young
man, rather put out at the young clown's tone.
"" Must have gone out."

' I tell you she hasn't gone out," said Jerry, going
-a step nearer. " Let me look at the book." And
in his agony of fear he tried to seize the volume,
which the clerk drew nearer towards him. " I tell
you," went on Jerry, all his passion rising, " if you
don't let me see I'll  " and he made a threatening
gesture.

The clerk had already turned over two or three
leaves, running his eye down them until he came
to an entry at the end of one page. Here it
rested for a moment, while the colour in his face
seemed to pale a Httle. After a moment, he
looked up quickly, glancing to where the gentlemen
stood in the corner. " You're no relation? "
he asked. Jerry shook his head. He could not
speak. " Excuse me a moment," the young fellow
said falteringly ; " I will speak to Dr Turner." He
crossed the room as he spoke, but left the book
behind him. No sooner was his back turned than
Jerry had seized it and found the place at which
he had closed it.

When the clerk came back, followed by one of
the gentlemen, who turned quickly on being addressed,
he was still standing looking down at th
page as if he had been turned into stone. The
gentleman spoke to him in a soft, kind voice, but
he did not answer, nor even turn his head, only
stared down at the words.

How could you be so careless, Halsie. Have I
not warned you to ask all questions, if anything
like this occurs, and to send for some one else,"
said the soft voice sternly. " This must not
happen again. It is the one thing above all
others to be avoided. I will speak to Mr Drayton
about you to-night."

The clerk's face fell visibly. He knew what
speaking to Mr Drayton meant.

He said he was a relation," he faltered, quailing
visibly under the stern glance.

At his words, Jerry looked up, closed the book
slowly, and laid it on the table.

'' I said I wasn't a relation," he said, in a slow,
measured tone, very unlike his late fevered utterance.
"And it's true I'm not a relation, but  " he
paused and looked absently round him, apparently
forgetting that his sentence was unfinished.

The gentleman motioned the clerk away, and
going a step nearer, laid his hand kindly on
Jerry's shoulder.

*' No relation," he said ; " not a sister or cousin,
but going perhaps to be something nearer one of
these daj's ? She was to have been your wife % "

*' No, sir," said the calm voice again, and a tearless,
stony face was turned to the doctor's pitying
one. " No, sir, she'd never have been my wife,
Liz wouldn't. I'd have died for her, if it'd saved
her any pain like she had to bear; but she was
much too good for the likes of rae, sir. She was a
lady, and I  I'm only a circus chap, not fit to brush
her shoes. Besides, there was some one else."

And he turned away. The doctor stayed him.

You are sure there is no mistake. The number
was 99."

Yes, 99 ; the doctor told me. There's no
mistake. I might have known how it'd be. She
was too good to stay here. She's gone."

But the doctor bade him stay while he examined
the book again and made inquiries of one of
the nurses of the ward. All she said, however,
only confirmed the report which told Jerry that
once again he was too late  too late by nearly a

whole week. Lisette Hartzmann, the little fancy
rider  his little sister  the girl he had loved
better than his life ; little Liz and he would never
meet again on earth.

Two days before, she who had died without a
friend to pay one last tribute to her memory, had
been laid to rest in the crowded cemetery outside-the
town,  in the nameless grave where already
had been laid to rest other unfortunates who had
been like her  friendless and alone in death as
in life.

Jerry did not ask where they had laid her. He
only knew that she was dead, and asked no more
questions.

'* Her turn's over," he said, when the doctor
shaking his head sadly, turned to him again.
Her turn's over. I should like to have took her
off. It must have been lonely like for her to go
alone." And he laughed  a queer, husky sort of
laugh. Then, seeing the doctor watching him
keenly, he added, '' Don't mind me, sir ; it's my
way of talking. I'm in the fooling line, you know.
Me and she were together a bit in the business,
but they've put her on alone now. I couldn't expect
I could have a turn along with her. But
there, you've told me what I want to know, so I'll
be going. Thank you kindly, sir, for doing what
you have ; and," catching sight of the clerk, who
looked sadly downcast, " don't be hard on him.
He ain't likely to miss his hold and make a slip
again. Give him a chance." And nodding gravely
to the man, he went quietly out of the room.

The doctor looked after him.

If he doesn't break down soon," he said,
there'll be a bad piece of work for some of
us."

As the young clown, without another word,
passed out of the big entrance door, twirling his
cap between his hands, a grey vacant look on his
face, he had to stand back to give entrance to a
tall, gaunt, raggedly-dressed man, with a white,
haggard face, and a strange look of fear in his
hollow eyes.

Jerry waited a few moments on the steps,
looking absently round him, like a dreamer half-awakened
from a dream, only with the consciousness
in his heart that the dread he feels is not
only a phantom of sleep, but a living thing, which
will be for ever with him while he lives.

After a little the man who has gone in after
him came out again, looking, if possible, more
haggard than before, his gaunt form more bent,
the whiteness of his face deepened to an ashy hue,
his eyes burning like two fiery coals beneath the
overhanging brows  the fearful look in them
deepened to one of strange wildness and fear 
awful soul-binding fear  of something, he hardly
seemed to know what.

In his hand he held a white paper  a small,
twisted note, over which his lean brown fingers
met with an iron grip, as if it were thus he would
like to grapple with his mortal foe, while his drawn
lips quivered and parted convulsively  though
no sound fell from them.

Moved by a sudden impulse Jerry turned towards
him.

"Is she  gone?" He could not bring himself
to say the word of deeper meaning. *' Is she
gone  you came to see too ? " he asked abruptly,
in the strange voice in which he had spoken to
the doctor.

The man did not seem at all surprised at such a
question being put to him by a stranger : sorrow
binds us all in one brotherhood ; besides, he looked
rather beyond than at his questioner, as though
the query was one which claimed his attention.

Yes," he said, in harsh, grating tones, which
suddenly sank into a hollow whisper. " Yes 
she's gone  she's gone ! "

So saying, he turned quickly away, burying the
paper he held in his breast, and with his torn coat
open, so that the piercing east wind played with
his begrimed shirt, and racked his attenuated
frame. Out he went into the hurry and bustle of
the city, not heeding  not fearing the weather,
only with that strange, ghastly fear in his heart
making him shrink guiltily from every shadow,
and start at the sound of every hurrying footstep
behind him.

Like a spirit in a world of living beings he
seemed. Homeless, friendless in the midst of a
thousand souls, an outcast in his own land  among
his fellow-men, and this of his own free will.

Ah, what a tale of sin and suffering those pallid
lips could disclose ; but they are sealed with the
seal of crime  a fearful crime ; they are silent,

and the dark history remains untold, until that
Day when all secrets shall be brought to
light.

Onward through the noisy streets goes the man
of fear, not seeing  not caring whither, till, like a
sudden, wordless messenger to his tortured soul,
writhing in agony within his quivering body,
before him  in his way, as it were  he sees the
great broad river flowing on through the darkness,
like a long, glittering snake, through the
heart of the noisy city, just as the stealthy, crawling
serpent sin had crept into his soul and divided
it in twain. There it lay  the great rolling river
right before him, to his eyes, and those of everyone
who cared or had time to look, a second city
displayed in its depth.

And in this second city the lives of all those who
lived above are reflected  with one difference,
above there is the hum of many voices, the
hurry of many feet, the din of life and business, 
below all is silence, a silence deep and calm as the
grave.

Grave! Who talks of graves'?

Why at the thought does that gaunt-figured,
white-hoped outcast shivers Does he recall to
mind that unhallowed grave where sleeps a son
who died a felon's death  lies in a felon's grave
for a crime he never committed %

Perhaps he does, f(r certain it is that as now
leaning low down and looking with those strangely
bright eyes into the sluggish depth below, the
father of that son sees rising from out the waters,

borne along amidst the glare of a thousand lamps
a face he knows but too well.

It is the face of the murdered man, the price
of whose life was a death of dishonour and disgrace,
 a horror-drawn face of a man who had
gone along a lonely road one wintry night years
ago  gone with money in his pocket, while in his
wake followed one who was starving for want
of a few pence, such as from among so much
store would scarcely have been missed, yet was
refused to him who begged it.

On the morrow the rich man had been found 
poor as the poorest beggar in the land  poor as
the poverty-stricken wretch to whom he had refused
alms  poor in all worldly goods, and in those
of heaven, since charity is among the greatest 
stiff, stark, and dead.

It was his face  with that fearful haunting look
upon it, as the murderer had looked upon it in
that deadly struggle  which now rose out of the
water,  rose before the eyes of the man who has
spent in stealth the money he stole, which to his
eyes bore a crimson stain  the stain of blood.

And beside the rich man's face there rises out
of the dark oily water and gleaming lights
another  that of him who died the felon's death
for a crime of which he was innocent. And yet
another  that of a young girl, which had once been
fair and comely, but now, alas ! bearing like all
the rest that look of agony and fear which unites
her as a link in the chain of crime. These three
faces all looking out from the silence of the other

city  the city of shadows. Shuddering and
cringing more and more, as he looks in fancy on
the darker ones, it is the face of the girl which
seems to chain the gazer's attention the more, for,
try as he will to tear it from her, over her hangs a
strong thick mantle of innocence and love, hiding
her from the touch of hands which are stained
with blood.

This girl, where is she?

Has he not answered that question to Jerry,
saying she has " gone "? Yes, but he has had too
near an acquaintance with death to speak of one
who has gone a journey, therefore he answered,
Yes, she is gone."

Gone where? Gone out of her own free will
alone into the big city  gone away from the man
who sees in her the one light in his dark life, the
one shield between him and the horrors which
since that winter's night have crowded round him
like so many demons eager to hurry him to the
end against which he fights so fearfully  gone
because she knows the truth, the truth of the
blackest lie that ever man Heed out  gone, fled
away from the knowledge which it scarce seems
possible one so frail could have survived.

He had thought she would die, and he could
have borne that, had she never guessed his guilty
secret ; but that paper he holds in his hand tells
him she lives, she knows, and has gone, fled
away, preferring rather to fight the battle of life
for herself than live beneath the odour of his
tainted life.

In those few words on that paper he reads his
doom.

When these people here who have been so
good to me give you this, you will know I have
not waited for your coming, but gone away alone.
You know  you will guess why  you have been
to me more than I can tell  but now there is the
secret you know of  and I cannot look at your
face, and know what I do  and turn away. So
I go. They say I am well now as I can ever
be. Do not try to seek me. It is best not.
When you read this, I shall be many miles
away. I cannot thank you for what you have
done for me  for what now comes between us
God will reward you. Good-bye."

The signature was evidently in the girl's own
handwriting  the letter that of one of the nurses
and was so faintly written, and in such queer
characters, as if the pen had more than once
slipped from the trembling fingers, that he could
scarce make it out at all.

No doubt she would not write the whole
name. It is mine, and everything of mine is
touched with the crimson stain. She would not
be ashamed of it for his sake. ' I have gone away
alone. Do not seek for me. You will know why.
I cannot look into your face and know what I do
and turn away.' She is well now, as my sin will
let her be. Another life ruined by it. Is not" 
(fiercely)  '' one life enough payment for that of
a miserly money-graver? Must three be taken?"
But," whispered a voice within  the ever-accusing

voice, whose tones grew daily louder, " the
price that was paid before men was not atonement,
but further sin. Yours is the penalty for
the miser's death  sooner or later you will pay
it. Hers, which is part of yours, is payment for
that of him who died instead of you. He was
innocent  so is she. So the balance is equal  a
life for a life." " I have brought this on her, but
she has no word of reproach. She even thanks
me for what I have done that was good. I would
rather she cursed me, and trod me under foot.
God will reward me for the rest.' "

At the thought the murderer buries his face in
his hands in mortal fear, between which and himself
a fair innocent life no longer stands. She i&
gone, and he is alone with his secret,  his ghostly
terrors and horrible soul-searching fancies.

Alone ! Yes, he is alone, but for how long ? At
the same moment he raises his head and listens.

Hark. Who is it hurries so quickly on behind
him ? Is it some one who knows too ?  some one
who will take him, put him in the dock, where all
those people around will stare curiously at him,
and point at him as the man  the demon inhuman
flesh and blood  who stood by and saw
his son die for the crime he had himself committed?
Will they shut him up in that dark
cell, from which none go forth save to die?  from
whence he too will go, to have the white cap
drawn over his eyes, the rope put round his neck,
by which they will hang him till he is dead ?

Yes, they are coming  those stern men who

led the son to his death  they are coming now
to accuse the father of his double crime  coming
nearer and nearer. In a few moments they will
be upon him. Already he feels their clutch upon
him, which will never be loosened till he pays
the penalty of his crime. They come  they come.
Oh, the terror of it! Is there no way of escape?
None  the hunted wretch stands at bay.

Then suddenly a thought bursts into his mind
amidst the rush of fears. Instinctively he gives
one swift glance round at the city of never-ceasing
toil, ever-dying pleasure,  gives an unspoken
adieu to its sin and sorrow, of which he
has had so great a share, then turns and glances
down, down, far into the darkness, where flows
the mighty river.

xA.nd there, as ever, from its glimmering surface
those three white dead faces he knows so well
look up at him.

Dead! Who says that they are dead?

No, no, it cannot  shall not be. In them alone
lies his safety  they only can be his shield.

Yes, they can save him  and they shall. His
arm, strong as it once was, is not yet too feeble
for this task  to snatch them from the dark water
of the Past and place them between him and his
accusers.

Come then, there is no time to lose. Quick 
lean low over the stone parapet while there is no
one by to see,  only in the distance those footsteps
of the accusers coming nearer and nearer !

Quick I quick I  stoop lower, or they are upon

you ! Loosen your hold on the iron rail ; you
will need all your strength to drag them up.

Lower and yet lower still ; for the footsteps are
nearer too. Haste  in a little while it may be
too late !

80 urges the accusing voice, grown from a
whisper into a shrill cry, which is almost a
shriek.

The poor haunted wretch obeys its direction,
and with his eyes fixed on the faces beneath,
holding out his trembling hands to seize them.
He almost touches them. They evade his grasp
a breath of wind stirs the limpid waters into
a dozen ripples, and in them the faces die away
with a mocking smile. He who would seize them
struggles to regain his hold, since his prize is
gone  but in vain.

He has bent so low, there is no going back now.
A thousand arms, long, lean, white, and bare in the
gaslight, are raised from out the water ; they lay
hold of him ; he feels them dragging him down
down into the depth below !

There is a rush of many sounds in his ears,
but his own tongue is tied, and, ere one cry for
mercy can plead for the blackened soul, the end
has come which he has so long dreaded.

All is over. The place he filled is empty space
the waters flow on as before  now hidden in
shadow, now rippling and dancing in the light,
as though with glee at its latest secret.

And the three faces  where are they ?

Gone ; and in their stead one only looks up

into the starlit sky  the only witness to the last
great sin  the last link in the long chain has been
forged.

Thus is the last penalty paid  at least, in this
life. There is one more shadow added to the
many  the land of silence.

Not many days later, in the cold, grey light of
the morning, there are those who bear the stiffened
body, and lay it in a nameless grave; for there
were none could say who is this last poor soul
who has flung his life away into the rushing tide.

There is no clue upon him to mark him as the
father of one who died that disgraceful death
nothing, save that scrap of paper so tightly
clenched in his cold hand that it is dry and
untouched by the water  a paper on which they
read those words which tell them what they
know already  " God will reward us according
to our deserts."

And they know it is true, although they can
place no other meaning to the sentence ; and
turning away, leave the body in its last resting-place,
there to sleep until that day wien the
secrets of all hearts shall be known, and the
guilty and innocent judged by the Great Judge,
whose judgment, unlike that of man, cannot fail
to be the true one.

And Jerry, all unknowing of the existence of
that scrap of paper with the few words upon it,
went home and began life again  or, at least,
tried to.

LEFT ALONE.

And now my reader must imagine time to have
passed rapidly,  nearly a year to have flown by
a year in which nothing concerning my hero
occurred worth noting down.

We all know how smoothly the wheels of the
vehicle of life seem to run after the steed of circumstance
which draws us, has relapsed from its
late bold gallop into a steady sober trot. So it was
with Jerry.

The period of his mourning for Lisette (which
would last for ever), which followed immediately
on his sorrow, was one of dull, unending monotony,,
as what else could it be when the one joy of his
heart had been crushed out, and the charm gone
from all pleasure and happiness.

He might perhaps have done like many before
him,  have sought to drown his grief when he
could not otherwise crush it beneath him ; but
even in his dullest despair he remembered that
his sadness had to do with one who had never
VOL. in. p

been anything but pure and good, and the
thought acted like a tasman, as it had often
done before, to keep him from taking the first
step downwards. His life then resembled that of
the little girl who kept a diary, the record of each
day in which was " I got up and stayed up till I
went to bed."

He was rather singular in his affliction. He
bore it as he had done the earlier ones  silently.
He told his tale to no one, asked no pity, claimed
no sympathy,  only went on his way, alone and
rebellious, with nothing to cling to, nothing to
look forward to, nothing to save him, if he should
by-and-by slip. The day of his 
visit to the hospital, he threw up his engagement
at the Hall of Varieties, and quietly
stole away from the latest scene of his sorrow.

When he had started on his journey  when it
was too late to turn back, he suddenly awoke
from the day-dream in which he had been ever
since he had read those fatal words in the entry-book.


I'm turning my back on him as did it all," he
said to himself. " If it hadn't been for him and
his lying tongue this might never have happened.
I ought to have made him pay. I ought to have
thrashed him."

And his eyes flashed a dull, sullen fire, which
boded but ill for the object of his thought. It only
lasted for a moment, then died away as quickly
as it had come, and Jerry sank back listlessly in
his seat.

It'd do no good. It wouldn't bring her back,
and maybe it'd worry the Httle Frenchwoman,
and ' she ' always loved her. No, I won't go back
to do it ; ' she ' maybe wouldn't like it. But,"
with a returning gleam of fire, " I hope he'll keep
out of my way. I don't want to do him no harm ;
lout if I do come across him, I won't give my
word I'll let him go without having it out."

A day or two after, he joined the Petman Show,
the right to use which name had been purchased
by the new owner, who was a far more lenient 
or, I should say, just and kind master than his
predecessor.

His object was to revive all the former glories
of the show ; and moved, I suppose, by a sort of
instinct which made the old props, vans, and ways
seem theirs by right, most of the old company
gathered quickly under the ancient banner of the
finest show in the world."

The Signer and his thoroughbreds was the first
to join, as young as ever  i.e. as carefully made
sip, as fond of trying his fascinations on any one
who fell in his way, and certainly still as great, if
not greater, in the grand Apollo act, from which delightful
performance it is devoutly to be prayed that
that enemy of old age, rheumatics, may not soon
debar him ; the Breaknecks, limp as ever in private,
sprite as ever in public ; the Japanese children,
fast becoming too big for the trick; Madame
Fourteenstone, fatter, crosser, and a worse rider
than ever ; the Jelli and Boneless Families, each
as deserving of its name as ever; Madame Ter-belli,

with, in place of the performing poodles,
two tame monkeys, which she had bought cheap
from an organ-grinder  no little pains (on the
part of the monkeys) having been spent on their
education ; Monsieur Verte, as much the Signor's
rival as ever ; and one or two brethren in the
trade whose names have not been mentioned in
the course of this history ; Tomtit, as drolly sharp ;
Merry-ground, as dully stupid ; ,
as much a combination of the two as could
have been found. All followed one after the-other,
till at length the show, which so lately had
been on its last legs, seemed restored to nearly all
its ancient glory.

We only want Jerry and Epsom, and we'd be
in prime condition," remarked Will Breakneck one
day as he stood in the ante-room, and looked
round at his old friends with a watery  his brother
said whisky-and-watery  smile. He thought of
the little German girl, but remembering that
night at Greyton, knew it was useless to think
of seeing her amongst them again ; and his not
unkindly but rather too soft heart was sorry for
her trouble. " We could do without all the rest
who like to stay away, but Jerry and Epsom
would be the finishing touch."

Most of those round him disputed hotly the
desirability of the jockey's presence, but all
agreed that that of Jerry would be very acceptable
 the wit of the show, as Will remarked,
being rather at a low ebb.

The next day, to their surprise, their wish was

gratified. When the performance was going on,
the young clown walked quietly into the anteroom.
Instantly he was the centre of a group of
friends, who all accorded him a hearty welcome
back into their midst, and plied him with questions
as to how he had fared since they had last
met.

Somewhat to their surprise, their former favourite
received their overtures of renewed friendship
very coolly, evaded most of their queries, and
seemed to wish they would leave him alone, and
let him go his own way.

Leave him alone! Although at the time his
old pals put down the strange alteration in his
manner to his being out of sorts, or subject to one
of those fits of depression which will occasionally
affect the spirits even of such merry individuals
cis clowns, and took the hint which was implied
rather than given, they soon found that it was in
fact the motto which Jerry seemed to have made
this own.

He seemed to want to be left alone entirely, 
to be allowed to go his own way in his own wa}-,
but not his old way. It did not take long for it
to be discovered that something was materially
wrong With him. A change had come over him
since last he had been among bis friends  a
change so great that it hardly seemed possible
that this grave, silent, almost taciturn man, who
came and went about his work like one in a
dream, could be the same gay, light-hearted
young fellow who had once been the life of the

whole show. He rarely spoke to any one of his
friends ; slipped away as soon as his turn was
over, and was not seen again until the next
day, when the time came for his appearance.
He was always punctual, always ready to give
a helping hand if it was wanted, never gave an\
trouble in his conduct, but was all in fact that a
manager could wish.

But his old pals could not make him out. They
tried to discover what was the reason of the
transformation, but in vain. Whatever the cause-had
been, the effect was such as to awaken
their sympathy, rough as it was. They agreed
among themselves that something was wrongs
that he had had a knock-down blow of some
sort, and agreed to do their best to pick him up
again.

But they did not know how difficult was
the task they had undertaken. They, one and
all, failed entirely to re-establish their former
footing with the young clown. He gently but
resolutely resisted all their efforts to draw him
out of the shell of reserve into which he had crept,,
evaded their good-natured attempts to get him
to join them in some pleasure, hoping by it to
liven him up a bit, and resolutely kept himself
and his unknown trouble to himself.

Finding this  and that not only was it fruitless
on their part but also on his  seemed to have the
effect of sending him farther and farther within
the fortress of reserve in which he had established
himself, they decided that the kindest thing they

could do was to *' leave him alone " as he wished.
They did so, but not a few of them watched
him when he passed among them with stooping-figure,
grey-looking face, and dull, hollow eyes,
and shook their heads half pityingly, half meaningly.


He seemed like a man suffering from some inward
disease, which was slowly and surely eating its
way into his system. Yet he never looked unwell,
save for his white face and rather slow walk,
and never complained, although Mr Winter, the
manager, often looked apprehensively at him, as if
afraid he might give way suddenly, and asked
him if he felt all right, pressing him kindly to have
something to freshen him up a bit.

He always replied that he was " all right," and
declined a " freshener," and went through his
work quite as well without it. The only thing
noticeable about his manner was sometimes when
he was in the ring, he would look round him
quickly, and put his hands suddenly to his eyes.
He said his sight was not so good as it had been,
and that the lights dazzled him.

In the ring he was as great a favourite as ever.
There was a change in his performance  as great
as that in his usual bearing in private. But
that in public was rather looked upon as for the
better than otherwise. Formerly he had, as we
know, been one of the quickest, most brisk of his
tribe ; now it was his very slowness, his sort of
sleepy stupidity, which made him seem even more
droll than before.

He's a  funny chap," was the general verdict.
What I like about him is, he's so jolly cool 
looks so infernally * looney,' yon can't help
roaring."

I suppose he found that the new way increased
the favour in which he had formerly been held, for
he stuck to it closely, nay, day by day, seemed
rather to do the part to greater perfection, to get
more quiet, more stupid, more solemn (I think a
little less clear sighted), till at length it was
generally agreed by the rest of the company,
*that, after all, he knew what he was up to,"
judging by the applause which always fell to his
share ; the peals and roars of laughter which
greeted his jokes and tricks ; and the hearty calls
which almost nightly demanded his re-appearance,
all of which signs of public approbation he received
with a stolidity,  a sort of dreaming solemnity,
which made his very presence appear doubly droll.

His engagement at first had only been for twc
or three months, and when Mr Winter, finding
how great a favourite he was, offered to give it
some considerable extension, adding as an extra
inducement a bigger *' screw" than he had ever
been given the chance of before, Jerry told him
quietly not to mind about the Writing business 
so long as there was a bit of the old show left, he
(Jerry) would stick to it ; and as to the screw,
Monsieur Verte, who had lately been caught in
the bonds of matrimony, needed the extra tip
more than he did.

I suppose he was quite content with being the

funniest clown out, without needing any further
reward for his services. And yet he did not seem
to take much account of the favour in which he
was held. He would come from the ring after his
third recall, as quietly as if he were deaf to the
roars of applause and laughter which had each
time greeted his appearance  a piece of conduct
which caused some discussion among his fellows.
Some  for his strange unsociable was, and perhaps
his public favour, made him a few enemies,
of which fact he seemed to think as little as of
the show of good nature of his friends  some declared
it was his conceit which made him treat
the matter so lightly ; but others repudiated the
idea, calling to mind that he never " took " a
'' call " unless Mr Winter gave him permission,
which the manager was only too happy to do ;
indeed, I do not think the audience would have
allowed him to refuse, even if he had wished todo
so.

Will Breakneck, who had a strong liking for
Jerry, defended him warmly at all times, and, sofar
as he was able, exerted his influence to guard
him against any annoyance which his strange
ways and popularity might cause him to have
been subjected to  once went so far as to declare
that he did not believe Jerry cared a " rap " 
whatever that might be  whether he was hissed or
cheered, a view which the young clown's singular
manner certainly tended to support, but which
was scouted entirely by the Signor, who living, ashe
openly declared he did, upon the smiles of

those who amused his performance, could not deem
it possible that any soul, even that of a circus
clown, could be so dead as not to respond to the
invigorating influence of such a profusion of food.

I fancy, however, Will Breakneck was right,
for to the worst and best houses alike Jerry
was just the same. Never elated, never downcast,
but always very quiet, the dreamy preoccupation
which made him the dullest fellow in the
ring making him the most incomprehensible fellow
out of it.

Matters went on like this for some length of
time. Everybody shook down into his or her old
place in the show, and Jerry's oddity ceased to
be remarked, so easily do we get accustomed to
eccentricity, calling it habit.

No one for a moment connected the change
in him with the little fancy rider. They thought
his defence of her on the last night at the
People's Gardens was due to his fearless nature,
which would not allow him to stand by and
see the innocent suffer for the guilty. lisette's
name was never mentioned before him
by his companions, for two reasons. Firstly,
her place had been filled up, and out of sight
means only too truly out of mind. Secondly,
he was so rarely in any company at all, that if any
allusion had been made to her, he was not likely
to have heard it. She was dead to him, to all the
world ; and he was mourning her as only an
honest true heart can mourn over a sorrow Which
no earthly joy can heal,  very different from the

outward expression of grief, which means the
putting on of black clothes and laying freshly-bought
flowers upon the newly-made grave.

One name, however, there was which did fall
upon his ears now and again. The jockey, who
having been one of the most " flash " riders and
disagreeable companions in the show, seemed to
have made himself remembered. Whenever he
was spoken of, that strange subdued light would
come into the clown's grey-green eyes, and he
would say quietly to himself, 

I hope I shan't come across him. I shall
have to do it  he deserves it ; but I don't want to
hurt him, for ' she ' wouldn't have had me."

The next moment the light and animation
would die away, and he would be the same
strangely silent dreamy-looking man as before.

Matters went on like this, until one day late in
summer, what Jerry had hoped might not be, came
to pass. Mr Winter had been going the round
of the various shows to see whether he could pickup
any recruits, as his own was on such a fair
road to its old prosperity that he had hopes of
obtaining an engagement at the People's Gardens,
M , during the following summer season.

To this end, therefore, he looked out for novelties,
and returned to the show seemingly very satisfied
with his trip.

Later on, the novelties arrived, in the shape of
a gentleman who ran up a sort of corkscrew staircase
without auy stairs, on a big gold ball ; a lady
who went to much trouble and danger in order to do

on a slack Aire what she aaouIcI have accomplished
far more easily and gracefully on terra firma; a
youth Who could assume any attitude on a chair
but that for Which this piece of furniture Alas invented
; a young lady Who made a great to-do
about Avalkiug head-doAvnAvards by means of loops
attached to bars suspended from the ceiling ;
and sundry other individuals Who seemed most
obligingly bent on breaking their necks for other
people's amusement-most
of these Avere recognised as old friends by
the Petman company, and fell into their places With
great alacrity ; but the last arrival Alas hardly
greeted so favourably. When it became known
that Epsom Alas expected, the majority of the
company politely Ravished he Avould stay away.

This, however, he did not do, and one day Avhen
Jerry entered the ante-room, he found the jockey
already there. He did not notice our hero, Who,
for a Wonder, instead of Walking off at once to his
dressing-room, stood looking at him. He Avas, it
Avuuld appear, not at, all touched by being among
old surroundings again, but Alas lounging up
against one of the supports of the tent, Watching,
With an amused sneer, the evident trepidation of
the groom Who Alas noah saddling Daredevil  a
task of no small difficulty and danger, if that animal
took a fit into his head to be at all obstreperous.
By his side, also Watching the operation,
Alas a thin, faded-looking little man, shabbily
dressed, and With a restless sort of air about his
movements Which attracted attention. He seemed

to take some interest in the horse, and presently
made some remark about him to his master, which
led to a warm discussion, in which it would seem
Daredevil's merits were being backed against some
horse of which the stranger had a higher opinion.

Bah ! I will tell you," said the latter, with a
careless glance half of contempt, half of doubt at
the horse present, and speaking with a decidedly
foreign accent, " I will tell you he is not what you
would call bad, but I won't take it he'd cut out
Vengeance if it came to jumping. I know a leap
the Devil's Gate they call it  a leap that 'd do
your beast up entirely. Mine takes it like a bird 
but Daredevil ! Well, 1 don't deny that he's a
showy beast  it's about all you require fur this
work  but don't set him up for better than
Vengeance, old boy, because it won't do."

The tone in which this was said seemed to put
the jockey on his mettle. About the only living
thing he had ever felt any respect  one cannot call
it affection  for, was his horse, and I believe that
was because it was not in the least afraid of him,
nay, sometimes proved itself his own master.
To hear its powers sighted, therefore, roused the
jockey's anger, and the discussion grew warmer,
until some of the grooms who were near were
drawn into it.

Meanwhile Jerry stood looking on with that
strange look creeping into his eyes. Presently he
raised his head, walked to the corner of the tent,
and picked up something which lay on the ground,
and turned towards the group in the corner.

It was a long driving-whip that he held in his
hand, and he looked carefully to the thong as he
carried it.

He's come," he muttered  he had a way lately
of talking to himself. *' He's come, and I shall
have to do it," speaking as if he was about to
execute some self-imposed task. " I'll do it here,
so that they can all see fair play."

He went a step nearer, with the light in his
eyes burning every moment more and more
fiercely, till they shone like burning coals, contrasting
strangely with his painted face and fool's
dress. Again he went a step nearer, till he almost
reached the group, and could hear the jockey's
voice, thick, as if he had been drinking heavily 
an idea which the heavy circles under his eyes
and the flush on his face certainly supported.

Jerry watched him steadily for a few moments,
then suddenly lifted his hand to his eyes, though
he could not say they were dazzled by the light
now, for the ante-room was in partial darkness.

Presently he looked up, and, walking slowly to
the corner of the tent, laid the whip doAvn where
he had found it.

I won't do it now. It's best not. He's drunk,
and he wouldn't feel it like he would if he was
sober."

Then he stood quietly aside in a corner, waiting
till his turn came, seemingly obvious of the now
noisy discussion which was being carried on only
a few paces from him.

A moment or two later he was in the ring  as

funny as ever in his queer, stupid, solemn way 
behaving just as usual, only that the lights must
have dazzled his eyes more than ever, for not
once but at least half-a-dozen times he left off in
the middle of some trick to put his hand over his
eyes, and when he removed it, looked round him
in a way which drew peal after peal of laughter
from an admiring audience.

Those who had seen him before declared he had
never been so irresistibly funny as on that night,
and many efforts were made to imitate the half-surprised
half-stupefied look round.

On his way home that night, Jerry was overtaken
by two fellows, one of whom was rolling
along with difficulty, swearing he would " be upto
time in the morning" at some place of meeting,
the other seemingly doubting his word, in order
to make sure that he would keep his engagement.


As they passed him, Jerry recognised the jockey
and his friend the shabbily-dressed foreigner.

The young clown looked after them with one
of those same strange looks which in the ring
caused such merriment, hurried on as if to catch
them up, then paused, seemed to think better of
his idea, and when they turned into a side street,
went quietly home to his lodgings. But not to
sleep. Though usually a rather heavy sleeper,
he could not rest that night. But tossed and
twisted and turned from side to side, repeating
over and over again some words to himself.

It's nothing to do with me. He Won't listen

if I go. I don't want to hurt him, but if he has
to pay, I can't help it."

And every now and then he would start up in
bed and look round him wildly, as if he expected
to find some one in the room.

A DUEL TO THE DEATH.

Towards morning Jerry slept a little  a dreamful
restless sleep, from which he awoke with a start.
It was but half-past four, but he got up and
dressed, and stole out of the house into the dim
grey light of the night which would soon give
place to the day. He seemed to have some object
in view, for, once out in the air, he set off at
a faster pace than usual away from the busy but
now sleeping centre of the town towards the
outskirts.

The walk was a long one ; and the first rosy
tints of the dawn were creeping into the sky
when at length he was beyond the town, out in
the country beyond. Towards the end of his
journey he had began to meet labourers on their
way to work, carts going to market, and other
such early risers.

Of these he asked his way once or twice, they
looking not a little surprised at the destination
he required to reach. But he paid no heed to
VOL. III. Q

their inquiring looks and questions, and went on
his way  tramp, tramp, tramp  like a man carrying
a heavy burden.

His load was a heavy  none the less so because
it was an invisible one.

By following the directions given him, he turned
at length down a narrow lane away from the main
road, crossed one or two fields until he came to
one in which, at the end, a number of people 
about half-a-dozen  were already assembled. The
little group consisted of men, two of whom were
noticeable before the rest. Just such a group as
in the days gone by had often assembled in the
sunrise, when headstrong passion had lead two
misguided men so far to outrage God's laws as to
stake their lives one against the other.

But the days of duelling are over now  in this
country at least ; so the errand upon which these
men whom Jerry saw, were bent, could not have
been that.

Besides, the two men of whom I speak were
not armed, but mounted each on horseback  one
a big, well-made man, with a dark face and care -
less mien, who bestrode a handsome grey horse
the other, seated on an ugly, long-legged black
horse, a shabbily-dressed little man, with a whiteface,
which would have been almost effeminate in
expression had it not been for a pair of singularly
sharp, restless grey eyes, which the owner fixed
intently every now and then on his companion.

The other man did not seem to care for the
look, while, at the same time, it seemed to puzzle

him. He stole a glance now and then at the
shabby man, as if trying to recall where he had
seen him before. The rest of the men were
standing near a broad, ragged stone wall which
separated the two fields, and must have been the
remains of some old fortification. Beyond it was
a broad ditch.

Jerry, as he tramped over the broad field, could
not see all this, but he nevertheless hastened his
steps when he noticed the men on foot cluster
round the man on the grey horse, and all seem
to be speaking earnestly.

He (the rider) did not appear to listen to them
with much patience ; and when the shabbily-dressed
man drew near, and laughed loudly and
gesticulated not a little, he turned away from
them altogether.

His companion seemed to urge that time was
pressing, pointing to the first straggling beams of
the sunrise to emphasise his words.

The man on the grey horse seemed to make
some light reply, as if doubting he could tell
by this ; but when a watch was consulted, the
supposition was proved to be correct.

The foreigner bowed, shrugged his shoulders,
and, turning his horse's hammer head, cantered
some distance up the field.

His companion prepared to follow, while the
rest of the men tried to stay him, but he shook
them off and also cantered up the field.

By this time Jerry was near enough to hear
what was said, and he hurried faster and faster

over the turf. Once he stopped, fancying he
heard voices in the direction of the lane, but no
one was visible.

By this time the horses were side by side
and the riders had them well in hand.

Will you that we go together, or I first ? "
asked the shabbily-dressed man, who seemed quite
unconscious of the queer figure he cut on his
strange-looking steed.

*' Go first," replied his companion, smiling disagreeably.
" If I break my neck I shan't see you
break yours. I wouldn't miss such a fine sight
for all the money in the world."

'' All right. It is as you will. Au revoir. I
hope you will ;nnuse yourself at the sight as you
think," was the shabby man's reply.

He touched his horse, which set ofi* at a momentarily
increasing gallop up the field till within a
few inches of the wall, a touch of the whip, andover
the great barrier went the big beast, its head
well up, its long, ungainly legs gathered under
it, taking the leap as easily as a bird.

A murmur of admiration broke from the little
knot of observers. The daring rider bowed and
smiled in reply, then waved his hand gaily to his
companion.

It is for you to ' come on, monsieur.' I will
watch and enjoy the sight of what your beautiful
Daredevil will do. Adieu  if you are not afraid."

The face of the tall man on the grey horse grew
very dark. With a muttered oath, he gathered
up the reins. As he did so, a hand was laid on

them, and a grey face with hollow ees looked up
warningly at him.

If you go, you'll go to your death. There's
some plot in this. There's not another horse in
the world but that black brute can take that leap.
You'll break your neck."

Out of my way, you snivelling fool. Do you
think I'm a baby. I not go where that man's
gone ! me if I won't, if I break my neck."

He broke his neck.

The grey went at the leap splendidly, in a very
different manner to that of its ugly black brother,
but just as its rider went to rise him for the effort, the
shabby man, who sat waiting calmly on the other
side, looked him full in the face. Perhaps in that
glance his friend recognised him ; perhaps that
recognition was not an agreeable one, but for the
first time in his life he lost his nerve. Only for a
moment; the next, as the horse rose beneath him,
he too smiled a dark, diabolical smile, then  before
one could say how it happened, before the smile
-could die away  there was a crash and a dull thud.

It meant that a daring wager had been made and
lost. The jockey  for he it was  had fallen with
the whole weight of his horse upon him, both
crushed into the ditch.

As soon as they were able, the terrified men
who had witnessed the scene extricated the motionless
figure from beneath the struggling beast,
whose terrible kicks and plunges made one sicken
to think of the human form beneath.

A doctor was found, who came at once. When
he reached the scene of the accident, the tall,
massive figure which had lately been so full of
life, lay motionless and terribly battered upon the
grass, still wet with the morning dcAv.

The men  his friends  stood round, awestruck
and white. They made way for the doctor, and
waited in silence his verdict. It was soon given.
George Epsom had taken his last leap. Whether
death had resulted from the fall, or from the more
terrible means  the efforts of the horse to free
itself, could not exactly be said ; but, whether
spared such fearful agony as this last by a mercy
which he had never shown in life, the jockey had,,
by his own rash act, leapt from this world into the
endless space of eternity. With that cruel smile
on his lips, George Epsom's blackened soul had
gone into the presence of his Maker, there, when
all secrets shall be known, to give account of
his sins.

"How did this happen?" asked the surgeon,,
looking curiously and not a little suspiciously
round him. " What does this all mean? "

No one answered for a moment. Then the
shabbily-dressed man, who till now had remained
exactly where he had been when the jockey had
fallen, moved his black hammer-headed horse a
step or two nearer, till its hoofs nearly trod upon
the motionless figure on the grass.

What does it mean % " he repeated, in a clear,
distinct tone. " It means, monsieur, that this gentleman
and I have long had an account to settle.

Madeline Petite was to Ive been my wife, but he
came ; I have tried many years to find him, but
have not done so till now. You in your country
will not allow quarrels to be settled as we do. If
a man ruins your home, you let him go free ; we
shoot him. It is well, perhaps, your law will not
let us fight. It is a game of chance, and I did not
wish there to be any chance. Our duel was to be
to the death.' I had no plan till I found him
yesterday. Then, although I have never ridden
in my life before, I bought this horse, because I
liked his name. I spent all the money I have in
the world, but what matter! It was just such a
morning as this when she went, just at this hour.
We were even. I had no wish to play unfair.
Vengeance carried me safely. He is dead. My
honour is satisfied. Monsieur Epsom, adieu V

The shrugs of the speaker's narrow shoulders,
and gesticulations with his thin white hands,
ended in one low bow to the dead man at his
feet  the rosy hues of the dawn flushing the
faces of both dead and living with impartial touch.
A moment  then, as the little Frenchman replaced
his shabby hat upon his head and turned
his horse to ride away, suddenly there came a
sound of flying footsteps over the dewy grass,
and before any one in the little awe-stricken
group could hold her back, a woman was in their
midst  a little wizened woman, with grey hair
hanging loosely from her bare head, and no
cloak or shawl round her shoulders to protect
her from the chilly air of the morning.

Her face was white  nay, grey  and her eyes
full of a wild, awfiil terror. One glance she cast
round her ; then, with a cry of clear ringing agony,
flung herself upon the body of the dead man 
clung to his neck, and implored him to look upto
speak to her, raining on his rigid face passionate
kisses, calling the dead to wake and listen
to her endearing words. It was Madame Petite.
Like the dog which licks the hand that lately
struck it, she had come to save the man who had
been her tyrant; and finding him dead, herself
free, had no word to say against him,  only bitter
sorrow for his death. For some moments which
seemed like hours, the old woman, who would never
try to appear young again, clung unforbidden to
the corpse, while her avenger upon the black horse
sat and stared down at her, perhaps hardly recognising
in her the girl whose cause he had so long
and resolutely espoused.

At length he roused himself, gathered up the
reins, shrugged his shoulders, bowed low to the
kneeling woman, and silently, slowly  like a dark
shadow in the golden sunshine  rode away on his
black steed Vengeance.

What afterwards became of him belongs not to
this history. He is merely a shadow in the background,
and he vanishes into the darkness.

Of Madame Petite too we here take our leave,
for the courageous, kindly little circus rider was
never seen in the ring again.

She lived on through weary years from that
fatal morning of her lover's vengeance  a poor

half-witted, crazy creature, to whom death's coming
at last was a blessed relief.

After she lay at rest at last, friendless and an
outcast in the busy world, when a search was
made among her few belongings, hidden away  asa
treasure or no it was hard to say  was found
the certificate of her marriage with the jockey
rider, all too late to save her in the eyes of men.
In the eyes of Him who knows all, what, I wonder,
was the verdict passed upon her? Why had she
chosen a life such as she had led to that which
might have been hers? Had it been choice that
she should have remained an unacknowledged
wife  or what was the power which had made
her bow even under this yoke to the man to whom
she was well nigh the only friend he had in the
world % Whatever the secret which had wrecked
her life, surely her love was an anchor which
might hold her safe in stormy waters. x\nd,
remembering this, and since her own lips
were sealed  faithful to her trust until the last 
let me ask my reader to think as gently of the
poor soul as he can, remembering that the mystery
of her life remains such until the day when
the secrets of all hearts shall be known.

The jockey was laid to rest in a little country
churchyard near where he fell, without a soul to
pay him one last tribute of respect.

As they carried him from the field where he
had met his death, one of the crowd who had

gathered near stood for a moment and looked
into his face, then turned away.

The doctor, who stood near, turned too, and
looked after the gazer, then asked a question of
one of the men near, to which he received some
careless answer about a " queer chap."

*' Queer chap! He's something more than queer.
If you're a friend of his, look sharp after him
or  " The rest he uttered in a whisper.

By " said Will Breakneck, " it isn't as bad

as that ? I'll keep my eyes open."

The acrobat did so for two or three days, then
seeing nothing to alarm him such as the doctor
had hinted, relaxed his watch.

It was the evening performance. In the anteroom
there was a bustle as of some new arrival;
in the ring Jerry was eliciting roars of laughter
by his antics, repeating the old trick of looking
round more often than ever, each time causing
the merriment to rise higher and higher. Presently
he happened to glance in the direction of
the ante-room. He was first with amusing solemnity
going through the old jumping trick, climbing
up one of the stands for those who hold the
banners, and making grand preparations to a splendid
leap, summoning groom after groom to hold
the stand in order to make his footing firm.

A dozen attempts he made to take the leap
each time pausing and calling another attendant,
till he had the whole army to support him. The
whole audience was on the tiptoe of expectation,
ready to laugh or applaud. He raised his arms

above his head and almost made the spring. It
was then he glanced towards the ante-room. In
an instant his arms fell ; one hand dived into
his voluminous pocket, and while every eye was
watching to see how the trick was to end, something
bright glistened in his hold, there was a
sharp report, and the clown figure fell face downwards
like a log into the sawdust.

The something bright was a pocket-pistol. The
mischief to the brain which the doctor had predicted
had brought the end  Jerry's mind had
given way. He had shot himself.

For a moment  while those around knew not
whether this was fun or earnest  some laughing,
some starting to their feet in dismay  the horrified
officials stood paralysed, perfectly horror-stricken.


Then they seized a banner, flung it over the
motionless figure, and bore it swiftly from the
ring ; he who had so lately entered it in health,
whose antics had so lately roused such roars of
laughter, lay now lifeless.

The audience conclude this. is some new bit of
fun, and would like to see the author of it again.

But they may call and shout as loud as they
please. Still motionless he lies on the ante-room
floor, the something bright clasped in his hand, his
loose cotton dress stained with blood at the breast,
his large collar sticking up round his white painted
face, his eyes looking up straight  up in to the
horror-stricken faces around him.

As they raise the banner, the figure which had

stood in the doorway pushes its way into their
midst.

Then a cry of '' Jerry " echoes above the murmur
of voices. And if any cry on earth has power to
Awake the soul that sleeps, it is this one ; if any
touch call him back to life, it is that upon his face ;
for it is a voice which he has so sadly missed as
silent for ever, which calls him back to life, calls him
back from the grave.

IN NEW STRENGTH.

But Jerry did not die. He lived  lived to wake
from the sleep which was so much like death  a
sleep which brought him back not only to life 
but to reason.

Yes, the evil of which the doctors had hinted
was the gradual overthrow of the brain power.
Ever since that visit to the hospital, the mischief
had been going on, slowly but surely, the canker
eating its way into his system, till it had seemed
nothing could stay the evil. But God had been
merciful to one who all his life had had mercy.
Just as the evil was on the point of triumphing,
help had been sent to the fevered soul. One
risen from the dead as it seemed, appeared to
bring back thoughts to the vacant mind.

And that thought brought the act which,
prompted as it was by a will which was not
accountable for what might come to pass, belonged
to the demon which was rising within him,
threatening to overpower him.

It was the signal for the battle to commence,
but the angle sounded not " to arms," but *' truce,"
and Jerry crawled slowly back to life.

It was one fair summer morning when first he
awoke to consciousness. He found himself in a
big, homely-looking room, in the window of which
sitting so that the sunbeams fell upon the
abundance of brown curls which hung in clusters
over her shoulders  was a figure which seemed
strangely familiar, and yet unreal, with its head
bowed over something it held in its hand. What
he could not see, for the back was towards him.
It was like one which had been in his mind long
months before,  before the change had come  the
form of one who had long since " gone to rest " 
gone where, as he looked with tired eyes upon the
apparition, imagining he was dreaming, he wished
he might soon follow.

He thought it was morning, and that he was
dozing still. He had not the slightest remembrance
of what had happened yesterday or the
day before, or of any day since his visit to the
hospital. He thought that day of bitter sorrow
was but a few hours behind ; he did not know
how nearly in innocence he had taken his own
life,  did not guess how ill he had been,  only felt
strangely tired, so that when he tried to wake, he
could not.

So he went on dreaming for some moments
longer, in his dream watching still the figure at
the window, with the bent head, thinking in a sort
of listless way that he would like to go on sleeping

for ever, if in his sleep the picture would befor
ever before his eyes.

Presently he felt he must get up. It must be
late in the day, for the sun was high in the sky.
He tried to raise himself in the bed, but his limbs
seemed strangely heavy, and refused to obey his
will.

He tried once  twice  but in vain, and then
turned his head slowly  it too felt so heavy  from
one side to the other. Then he saw that what
the brown head in the window bent over was a
letter, a crumpled, well-worn sheet, which seemed
to be perused with great care.

Suddenly the brown head bent lower. The girl
was kissing the written page. It was just then
that he moved on his pillow.

In a moment  even this slight movement attracted
the watcher's attention  she started
noiselessly to her feet, hid the letter in the
bosom of her dress, and with a suppressed little
cry of joy turned towards the bed. At the sight
of the grey, staring eyes fixed upon her, a hot
flush as of delight flooded her face, and her hands
met suddenly over her breast, with a queer, half-foreign,
half-childish action, as if to keep down
some excitement.

A moment she stood looking half fearfully at
the white face on the pillow, on which was gradually
dawning a look of wondering, not unmixed with
terror. Jerry tried to put his hand over his eyes,
but the thin white fingers rested like lead upon
the coverlet ; he tried to speak,  to cry out, but

his tongue was dry in his mouth, and all his
parched white lips could murmur, was a hoarse
whisper  one word, " Lisette ! "

Then the girl spoke, calmly and distinctly, although
her breath came and went quickly, keeping
her large, clear brown eyes fixed on the
staring grey ones, as if to transfix their glance.

Yes  it is I  Lisette. You are awake, not
dreaming. They told you I was dead, but there
was a mistake. I went away myself because 
because I thought I was in your way. Hush  do
not speak "  as Jerry, full of amazement, tried to
utter some sentence. "I know I was wrong; I
know all that you would tell to me. I found
Smith, and he told me, and I got this letter " 
taking it from her bosom. " When I read it, I
came quick to find you ; but you  you were ill,
I was sorry for it  but glad  glad to show ycu
I do not fear what people might say,  glad to be
able to befriend you in your trouble, as you did
me  in mine. I have watched many days for you
to wake, that 1 might tell you  that I might say
to you how much I am happy to be loved by
you. It is not for me to say it. You may think
me no woman, but, all the same, I have come to
ask you, Jerry  to ask you to let me be your wife?"

She paused breathlessly, and there was a dead
silence in the room.

Jerry made no efibrt to speak, only lay like one
in a stupor ; only staring with great unbelieving
eyes into the girl's flushed, earnest face, as, withall
her soul in her voice, she stretched out her

hands to him, as if imploring him to make some
answer to her confession.

As he did not speak, all at once she let them
fall to her side, and the colour fled from her face.

Surely, surely,! have not been mistaken. This''
holding out the letter  "is not a trick, to make
me? Oh, no ! and yet  "

The clear, distinct voice failed, the brown eyes
dropped, and the drooping form made as though
it would turn away. Ere it could do so, Jerry
roused himself by a mighty effort, held out his
arms, and loud as his weakness would let him
utter the joyful cry, called " Lisette ! "

There was no mistaking the tone or the action ;
the slight figure turned again, and with one big
sob of happiness, the girl was kneeling by the bed,
her hands clasping the thin white ones while her
golden brown head rested against the heart which
so long had beaten faithfully in her cause.

A little later, Mrs Parkins went and found her
patient sleeping calmly, while the little German
girl watched beside him, holding his hand in hers,.
a strange glad look in her face.

The old woman watched them silently for a
moment, then stole round to the girl's side, and
quietly folded her in her motherly arms. She
knew the battle was won.

From that day, Jerry grew rapidly better, as
how could he help it, beneath the never-tiring
care of two such faithful nurses.

VOL. III. R

There was much to tell, and by degrees he
knew all, for, once she had surrendered the key,
little Lisette opened her whole heart to him, 
had no secret from him whom she had learned to
love amidst such pain and sorrow. For she had at
last learned the lesson of the roses, and in the new
deep love of dawning womanhood, left the fond,
foolish fascination of her childish heart far behind
in the past.

And who shall say this second love was not as
precious as any,  far more so than the first, which
long ago she had buried away  from its grave
rising her new and far better happiness.

The story of the mistake which made her dead
to Jerry, my readers will already have understood.

The exchanged numbers were the cause of
Jerry's year of mourning. It was the poor,
friendless love of the murdered  not murderer 
who had died that still calm night. Lisette had
heard her tale of suffering ; and, strong even in
her own weakness, had been like a sister to her ;
nay, better, like a guardian angel to a stricken
soul.

That tall, fearful-looking man, who lies now in
the unknown grave of a suicide, knew it not ; but
into the stranger girl's ear had been uttered those
words for which he had begged in vain. The
forgiveness for his heinous sin had been at last
granted on earth by her whom he had so bitterly
wronged. May not we hope that the Higher
Power will grant him mercy in heaven ?

Knowing, or thinking she knew, that their

friendship might bring Jerry unhappiness in his
approaching marriage, and knowing too her own
secret only too well, Lisette had decided not to
see him again. To this end she had quitted the
hospital and the town, as soon and as quietly as
she was able, leaving behind only a short note for
Jerry, which note, as we know, he never received.
It had another mission to fulfil. lisette's
life, after turning her back on Greyton,
had been full of those ups and downs which are
the lot of the friendless in this big busy world.

But she was fast passing from childhood into
womanhood now, and would not let herself be
discouraged by any amount of stumbling.

She struggled bravely on, and at length gained
her reward. In her greatest need she remembered
a friend who she thought might help her. This
friend had lived near the People's Gardens,

M . To M , therefore, she went, but only

to have her hopes disappointed, by finding her
friend had some time before left the place.

Despairing, and not knowing where to turn,
she had turned away on receiving this information,
and wandered for some time aimlessly
down the streets which she remembered so well.

Passing a house in a narrow thoroughfare, her
attention was aroused by hearing some one whistling
a tune she knew only too well. It was
*' Come Lassies and Lads "  the air to which she
had so often leapt banners, burst balloons, and
otherwise disported herself on the Turk's back.
It was a common enough tune, but it recalled

old memories, and she tnrDed to look carelessly
at the whistler. Perched on a window-sill of the
house before which she was passing, was the big,
ungainly figure of a young fellow about seven-and-twenty
years of age, rubbing away at the
pane of glass before him with great and seemingly
unnecessary energy.

As he bent forward to get a view of a smeary
corner, his face was visible to our little heroine.
In a moment she came to a standstill, and forgetting
everything but that here at last was a
friendly, if ugly, face, she cried aloud, 

Smith ! "

The fellow, intent as he appeared on his work,,
heard her, and evidently knew the voice.

His merry tune came to an abrupt conclusion ;
his window rag fell into the area below ; his
whole body was very nearly following, while he
stared at the owner of the voice in amazement.
Then he flung up the window, sprang into the
room, and the next minute was out on the steps,
holding the hand which Lisette held out to him
tightly within his own, while he gabbled out
question after question in the most confused
manner, without waiting for any answer.

Suddenly he paused, and before she knew where
she was had dragged the little fancy rider into the
house, left her in the hall, dashed headlong down
into the lower regions, and returned with missus,
as he called her  she being none other than our
friend Mrs Parkins.

How Smith came in her service is easily 



planned. The day after Lisette's accident, with
fi dim idea in his mind that he ought to know
what had happened, the faithful slave had started
alone to find the man who had "shaken him by
the hand and been kind to him." By dint of
great perseverance, wonderful in one such as he,

lie had at length reached M- , only to find

Jerry already started off on his search.

Smith had been in despair, not knowing how
this self-imposed mission was to end,  which way
to turn, what to do, where to go. His friendless
condition had touched Mrs Parkins' motherly
and she had offered him the place in her
household which had been left vacant by the hero
of the Jacob's ladder versus Jerry's exploits having
bettered himself  contrary to the dismal
prognostications of his Sunday-school teacher 
Smith had been rather bashful and shy at first.
It was truly a pitiful sight to see one who was
a man in years, little more than a child in ways.
But he had gradually thriven under the widow's
scare, and become a '' boon " to the lodgers, who
had hitherto suffered not a little from the shortcomings
of the various errand-boys who had had
to do with the establishment. He was quiet, and
t times excessively stupid, but he was faithful
to the core, and everyone could trust him  a new
trait in one of his order. He improved in health
too under his new mode of life, and when Lisette
saw him cleaning windows, was well and strong-looking
to the poor, miserable-looking chap he
lead (ice been.

The widow was not a little proud of her protege
and he in return worshipped her, nay, more
he loved her with that dog-ike sort of affection
which was such a strange attribute of his character.


But for the little fancy rider he still kept the
first place in his heart, and his joy at seeing her
again was unbounded.

Mrs Parkins, too, was very happy at the lucky
recognition, and welcomed Lisette to her motherly
heart right gladly. She made her there and
then a prisoner, kept her for that day aud the-next,
and for many after that, inventing some
idle excuse for detaining her till some plan had
been formed for getting her work till she should
be strong enough, as she soon hoped to be, to return
to the ring.

I think this kindness was prompted by the remembrance
of that secret concerning Jerry and
the little fancy rider, which in a burst of confidence
the groom had divulged.

In time this reached Lisette's ears. Her feelings
can better be imagined than described. What
could she do? Nothing but wait until fortune
should befriend her, and bring to light the meaning
of the tale, and Jerry's after behaviour.

She had changed  she wondered now why the-transformation
had been necessary  why should
not he ?

And while she asked herself this question, and
waited, fortune  or rather, I should say. Providence
 befriended her. She wrote, now that she

was settled, to her old friend Sarah  sending now
and then a little present, in return, she said, for
many kindnesses, and for the little flat pincushion
which she still had safely. In reply to this letter
she received one which informed her of the wellbeing
of little Whispy  who was perfectly happy
with Jack, who had gone to live with an aunt in
the country who had taken pity on his helplessness
 and forwarded to her a note, very crumpled
and dirty, addressed to her, and which had been
found behind the hat-stand during a grand turnout
at No. 19 Wicker's Row.

This letter was the one which Jerry had set so
much pains upon the night before he said goodbye
for ever, as he thought, to Lisette.

On at last receiving it, could she to whom it
was addressed doubt any longer that she had wilfully
deceived herself? Without waiting to do
anything but secure Mrs Parkins' protection, she
had set off to find Jerry, putting aside all false
pride, in order to clear up what must have been to
him a very dark mystery.

The search was a difficult and long one, but at
last it had an end in no less a place than the old
ante-room of the Petman Show.

Lisette had arrived just as Jerry's turn was going
on, and breaking away from those who would
have welcomed her and plied her with questions
and congratulations on her return to health  never
guessing her errand  she had peeped between the
curtains at her lover in the ring.

The result of his catching sight of her face,

which seemed to him more real than it had ever
been in haunting him before, is already known.
The good also which came from evil I have
already detailed.

And so Jerry must needs live and not die, 
live to be happy at last after much pain and
sorrow. And truly it seemed, when health returned
to his weakened frame, that nothing was
now wanting to complete the chain of content.
He could scarce believe sometimes even now that
he was not still dreaming  so much too good
to be was the great change that had suddenly
come over his life, turning the shadow into sunshine
which should never fade away  sunshine
so bright and glorious that the past dreariness
seemed like part of a hideous nightmare now over
and gone for ever.

And truly indeed did the present blot out the
past, nay, take its place, for all seasons were
alike to Jerry if in them Lisette was the same
to him.

The change in her was what fascinated him the
most. It was little wonder he imagined himself
dreaming when  with the memory in his heart of
the dark days when she had seemed entirely
beyond his reach  when he thought of her as the
pale, sickly little seamstress  she stood before lira
dice more the Lisette he had first known her.

Yes, the old Lisette ; alive, well, strong, and
fair and sweet as ever, for health and time had
done much to obliterate the work of that cruel
fall into the flames. A small portion of the scar

still showed beside her ear, and would never be
entirely removed, but the clusters of soft brown
curls, which once more as of old fell over her forehead
and neck, served to hide the rest. And one
forgot even so slight a disfigurement, now that
the once pinched, pale features were restored to
their former soft roundness, the flush of returning
strength blooming softly in them ; the old
flash and sparkle returned to the beautiful brown
eyes ; the old vigour and grace to the once languid
heavy limbs.

Truly a merciful change to have the old Lisette
thus risen from the grave.

Yes, the same Lisette, and yet not the same,
for the child during the days of trial had passed
slowly into a woman's riper years  the bud had
slowly developed into a blossom. Now that its
inmost leaves had opened neath the sunshine of
a true honest love, its golden heart was revealed
at last, and would never again be hidden. So
now there remains nothing but to ring the wedding
bells, and to leave the two thus happily
brought together to begin their new life.

But before we do this, in the gallery to which
I have done my best to introduce my reader,
there remains one picture yet to be shown.

FEARFUL STILL AT FIRST  THEN PERFECT TRUST.

Time had passed quickly, and once again we find
Jerry so far recovered from his illness as to look
forward in a little while to being at his old work.
He has planned that Lisette and he shall both
make their reappearance in their old places in the
Petman Show upon the same day  a day which
they looked forward to and spoke of long before
it was near. Before it came, Jerry had been wont
to say the little fancy rider would be Lisette
Hartzmann no longer ; and she had laughed her
old gay, merry laugh because he had been sorely
afraid Lisette Bolton would not sound half so
well.

What matter," she had said, quitting her seat
where she sat beside him working, for she was
still very handy with her needle  quitting her
seat to stand upright before him, with her hands
resting on his shoulders, her beautiful eyes, soft
and true, looking down into his as he had once
never dared to hope they would ever look. '* What

matter if it is a funny name? I like it  did I not
ask for it myself? "

She used often to speak shyly of her little
speech to Jerry when he first realised that it was
truly her, and no ghost, who watched beside him,
the speech in which she had simply but earnestly
offered herself to him, to be the wife he would
have made her long ago, but for that straying from
the path into one of the narrow ways which led
to nowhere.

But from that time she never spoke of her mistake,
as she called the little romance of her girlhood.
She seemed to wish it entirely forgotten 
to look upon it as part of the dark dream which
she and Jerry had dreamt together. They were
awake now, and the reality made all other idle
fancies forgotten. So Jerry, obedient to her
slightest wish, did his best to forget it, although
I fear there were times  times when Lisette seemed
more than ever her old self  the self who had
dreamed the other first dream of love  when he
feared if he was right even now to claim as his own
so precious a jewel as this sweet, fair little ruby.

He was afraid of his own happiness, like the
great big clumsy fellow that he was.

He did not know the tale of the love which had
been so willingly given him ; he did know how,
day by day, it had struggled to life, like some
beautiful flower  first a tiny leaf, then another and
another, till gradually the bud had come and
opened, slowly but surely, into the fair sweet
blossom which had so frankly, so  oh, so willingly

been put into his hand, a trust of which he should
have had no doubt. And yet can we be angry
with him for being fearful of this great joy which
seemed too good for him? The light of day
dazzled his eyes after the darkness of the night.

His own love he knew was true as steel. It
had been tried by many hours of patient waiting.
But hers  was it gratitude or love?

He often asked himself the question, contrasting
himself as he knew he was, with her as, always
patient, gentle, and winning, she tended him in his
sickness, seeming to have no greater wish than
to be to him in his trouble what he would have
been to her in hers.

But now that their positions were reversed, a
change had come over Jerry's feelings. He who
had before been willing to give all,  love and life to
thepoverty-stricken little seamstress  felt he could
nt)t take from Lisette the counterfeit coin instead
of the real. Now he had got a part, he was not
content  he wanted all. Once he would have done
much for merely gratitude; now he had that, it was
all too little to satisfy him,  he wanted love  pure
and unalloyed love. And he doubted if he had this,
doubted, although in every hour of the day, in
every action, every look in those glad, honest
brown eyes, she whom he doubted, fearing his
own happiness, gave him some proof, which he
was too fearful to accept. And then, when he
had at last resolutely turned his back upon the
shadows,  his face to the sunlight suddenly, no
shadow, but a real presence, rose up in his path

to bar his way upon the road to perfect content.


One day when he and Lisette were strong
through the town  obeying the doctor's orders
to get as much fresh air and exercise as possible
before once more settling quietly down to work 
Lisette looked up, to find him gazing earnestly
into her face, with all his honest love shining in
his eyes.

Perhaps it was the expression in her face which
called it there, for she was looking more than
usually bright and happy, because of the doctor's
good report of Jerry that morning.

Miss Hartzmann," he had said, shaking her
warmly by the hand, "I say good-bye for good
to-day. There is no need for any more physic for
this young man. I leave him in your care, and I
know I can't do better. If all my patients had
such nurses as you, there'd be less work for us
poor doctors."

With that he had shaken Jerry warmly by the
hand, and wished them both much happiness, for
of course he knew how matters stood.

After he had gone, they had set off quietly for
their walk, in obedience to his commands, without
making any comment on his words, but as sofar
the walk had been a silent one, I fancy they
were far from forgotten.

Indeed, as proof that they were not, when
Lisette looked up so inquiringly into Jerry's face,
he drew her arm closer within his, and asked
suddenly 

Liz, dear, don't you think it's time we thought
about your being made Mrs Bolton  that is, if
you've set your heart on it ? "

He laughed as he spoke  a merry, gay laugh,
such as brought an answering smile to the little
fancy rider's happy face.

I have what you call set my heart on it, so
do not think you will laugh me out of it. I daresay
I'm silly, but  " She paused, then dropped
her light tone, and with a soft, tender look on
her face, said softly, "I'm ready, whenever you
say to me, ' Come.' "

The word was almost on Jerry's lips, but it was
not uttered. Even as he was about to speak, someone
in the crowded street  a tall raggedly-dressed
fellow  brushed awkwardly against Lisette.

She looked up suddenly, then Jerry felt the
little hand on his arm tremble slightly as she
drew closer to him as if for protection.

He, too, looked up, to find himself facing  none
other than the ring-master, Carl Hermann.

Yes, it was indeed him, though so altered from
what he had once been that it is little wonder
that for the moment Jerry hardly recognised him.
He was no longer the spruce, gentlemanly-looking
young fellow whose handsome face had been
so often admired, but a shabbily, carelessly-dressed
man, who bore upon him the traces of a life which
had evidently been anything but an easy one.

He was, it is true, handsome still, but bad living
had done much to hollow his cheeks, dull his eyes,
and sharpened the once regular features.

Truly times had changed, and he with them.
He had lost his old graceful carriage, and slouched
along with his head down, dragging his feet after
him in a slipshod sort of way, which told that he
had to pay for his pleasures, now they were
passed. It would seem, too, that he had lost his
old courteous manner and usually placid temper,
for when he brushed against Lisette, he made no
apology, but passed hurriedly along, muttering
something which sounded very like an oath.

For a moment, on seeing him, Jerry stood
motionless, then, moved by a sudden impulse for
which he could not afterwards account, he made
a step forward, and before Lisette could stay him,
had called the ring-master by name.

He turned, and paused rather unwillingly ; but
when he saw who it was accosted him, retraced
his steps quickly, and passing Jerry's outstretched
hand, held out his own to Lisette, saying something
in German.

His little countrywoman drew back.

It was Mr Jerry who spoke to you, not I," she
said, with the colour coming quickly to her face,
and her hold on her lover's arm tightening.

At this Carl Hermann gave her a searching
glance out of his grey eyes, and turned to Jerry,
greeted him coolly, and in quite his old grand
manner. The two  for Lisette would not join in
stood for some moments talking in a dilatory
manner about how things had gone since last
they had met.

I've been unlucky," the ring-master said, playing

with his stick. " Never got on but badly since
the show went smash. The money all went like
blazes, and this is what I've come to."

And he smiled cynically as he looked down at
his shabby clothes.

'* And Miss Rosa  that is, your wife," said
Jerry.

My wife  I am a widower," replied Carl, while
the smile hardly died away from his lips.

A widower ! "

*' Yes. It's nothing to look so very surprised
about. Rosa died three months ago."

There was silence for some time, then Jerry
asked after Mr Petman.

The old man % He's dead too. Died while we
were at St John's Wood  the night that  that is,
the day that the last of the money went."

A few minutes later, the newly-met friends
parted ; but for some moments after he had
turned away, the ring-master stood looking after
Lisette and Jerry, as, arm-in-arm, they passed
along the crowded street.

I wonder whether it was because the way was
crowded that for the rest of the walk Jerry was
rather silent. He resisted all Lisette's efforts to
return to their former happy intercourse, and the
conversation which the recognition of Carl Hermann
had interrupted, was not resumed. Lisette
had said, " I am ready," but he did not say " Come."

On the morrow, Lisette, having some work to
finish, Jerry, as he sometimes did, but not very
willingly, went for his walk alone. When he

returned, he said he had again met Hermann.
Lisette made no comment.

On the day after, Lisette pleaded the same
excuse, and the young clown's walk was again a
solitary one  at least, part of the way  for the
rest, Hermann overtook him, and walked a little
distance with him.

Again the next day, the day after, and for some
days later still this happened, Jerry starting off
alone, but usually picking up the young German
on the road, who became his companion for the
rest of the way.

One morning, just as together they reached the
former's lodgings, it began to rain heavily, and
Jerry asked Hermann in to wait till the shower
was over.

Lisette was sitting in the parlour at work when
they entered together. She greeted the visitor
very quietly, and in a fcAv moments, saying something
about wanting more cotton, left the room,
and did not return until some time after the rain
had ceased.

By that time Hermann had gone. But the next
day he went again, after his walk with Jerry,
which had now become quite an established thing,
Lisette being too busy to make one of the party,
and again, two or three days later, always at
Jerry's invitation.

At first Lisette usually made some excuse for
leaving the men together; but one day when Jerry
rallied her, laughing, on running away, she returned
to her seat, and went on quietly working.
VOL. m. s

From that time, she never made any more excuses,
but whenever the visitor arrived, treated
him as she would any ordinary friend, though
sometimes when Jerry would look her way, ashe
did very often when he imagined she was not
looking, he would see a troubled look in her eyes
as she bent over her work, and if he spoke quickly
to her she would start, and the colour come to her
face.

Ah ! there was mischief abroad, and each felt
the shadow was on them, but had no power to cast
it off.

So the days went on, each one bringing together
the little German girl and her former
lover  each one seeing that shadow between
Jerry and his love grow darker  each one passing
without the question being answered,  the one
little word "Come" that had been left unsaid,
being uttered.

And then the end came.

It was the night when Jerry and Lisette were
to go amongst their old friends again,  to go back
to their old work, to be in the ring once more, 
the day when Jerry had once spoke of how he
would introduce his wife to his comrades.

But this would not be now. When the time
came for starting, it was not a duet but a trio
which set out for the show. Carl Hermann had
talked much about the double deity and declared
his wish to witness it. On the evening fixed, there-foresee
arrived, bringing with him a beautiful bunch
of white roses, which he presented to Lisette with

some of the pretty compliments lie had been wont
to pour into her ear in days gone by.

He spoke in German, and the sound of the dear
old language brought a look of pleasure to his
little countrywoman's face, which two pairs of
eyes noted only too quickly.

The next moment she turned quickly to Jerry,
appealing to him as she had grown to do in
everything lately. Once there had been no need
he had always been only too ready to advise
and help her in even the slightest way.

Now when she asked, *' Shall I keep them,
Jerry % " he thought he noticed a sort of timidity
in her manner ; and, while he answered lightly,
turned away to hide the look of yearning which
he knew had come all unbidden into his eyes.

So she kept the roses, and thanked the giver
warmly.

A little later, the show was reached, and the
two performers each went a different way to
their dressing-rooms, while Carl Hermann waited,
lounging in the ante-room.

It did not take Jerry very long to perform his
toilet as a rule, but on the night of which I write,
owing to his being rather more particular about
his appearance, or rather more preoccupied than
usual, he let the time slip by until he was afraid
he should not be able to have the chat with his
friends that he had promised himself before the
performance.

Accordingly he made his way hurriedly to the
ante-room, and lifting the curtain aside was about

to enter, thinking it empty, when the sound of a
familiar voice made him suddenly pause.

The voice said,  " Lisette, Lisette, don't turn
away; you know I always loved you, only I was a
fool. I only married Rosa for her money. I swear
it. I never loved her  I never loved her! Bah! She
was so coarse and vulgar ; only her money would
have made me so much as look at her. I never
loved her  I only loved you. I love you now, and
always have since the first moment I saw you. I
meant no harm to you, but I was poor. I could not
afibrd to marry you, to bring you to poverty
and misery ; but God knoAvs I loved you then,
and I shall never cease to do so. And you loved
me once. I believe you do so now. Then why
should we not be married? I am free, and you 
you can be free  if only you will. Come away
with me to-night; come with me, for oh, Lisette,.
I love you so ! It was for the best I acted  oh,
believe me, it was for the best, and  "

"Hush," interrupted a second voice, clear and
distinct after the other's low feverish whisper.
'' Hush, you have said enough ; I have listened too
long. Now, let me to speak. You say I loved you
once, but you are wrong. When I was but a little
child I had some one in my mind that I loved.
He was to be good and kind and brave and true,
and loved me because I had love for him. I
thought this man was you, but I have found out
I was wrong. You were never good, to treat a
poor friendless girl as you did ; you were never
kind, to make her think you cared ; nor brave.

to leave her to bear the shame all alone ; nor
true. I ask you are you true now? No; you
were not the man I loved, and once I thought
there was no man on earth like him ; but then I
found how blind I had been. Jerry came ; and
he is good and kind and brave and true, for he
has trusted you, and you have deceived him. Do
you think if ever I had love for you, even as you
say I did, that I could do so now  now when
you have been untrue to what I thought a man
held sacred. I could not love a man who had
no honour ; and you, Carl Hermann, have none.
I saw what you would do, and 1 tried to save
you ; but Jerry was too good. I see nov that
he was afraid I am not sure of what I would do.
He thought I will be his wife because he wishes
it  because you were dead to me. You are here,
and free, and ask me to marry you, and I tell to
you ' No ' once for all. I wish he were here that
he might to hear me say it, for how can I say
it to him? I know he doubts me. And yet 
He has not been to me what he was before you
came. He is changed, and 1 cannot tell him to
be his old self again, or I shall to hurt him, and I
would not do that for all the world. Yes, he
has changed ; and if, Carl Hermann, you have
come between us, instead of loving you, 1 may
come to hate you  to  But  I think you
have fallen down enough. I will not to hurt you ;
only please go now, or I may be unkind  and
he would not wish it. Please go."

As Lisette had spoken, Jerry had drawn aside

the curtain, and could see the two speakers,  the
ring-master, in his shabby clothes, standing mute,
dumb struck, before the little Fay of Fire, for lisette
had chosen to wear a dress like the one she
had worn one day long ago, when first she had
found out her countryman was not the goody
kind, brave and true man she had believed him.
In it she looked more than ever the Lisette of
old, fair and graceful as ever, in the pretty scarlet
skirt and bodice, her brown hair falling over her
shoulders, the glittering helmet, with its nodding
plumes, upon her head. But though, as he looked
at her, Jerry recalled that day when he stood up
in her defence, that memory was soon effaced, to-see
her now proud and defiant. Her whole figure
was alive with earnestness ; her head erect, and
her face flushed with the quick, sharp energy of
her words ; her whole bearing a contrast to her
fairy costume, but not such a one as it had been
before.

When she finished speaking, she turned and
motioned with a commanding little gesture of the
hand towards the door, meeting the glance of the
man who had lost her love and very nearly won
her hate, calmly and sternly, so that his own failed.

He tried to speak, but the brown eyes flashed
defiance at him, and he turned and left the anteroom.


As he approached the door, Jerry slipped away.
He had no wish to meet him,  no wish to triumph.
His reward for the past days of fear and doubting
had already been given. No, his first thought in

this new happiness was pity for his fellow, who so
little deserved it.

He's very down on his luck, poor chap, and
Liz was a little hard on him. I suppose he'll be
off out of this now. I should like to give him a
helping hand for the last time ; he's a pal of mine.
I know  he may think of paying back what I've
lent him. I'll run after him and tell him not to
bother."

And darting into the dressing-room, Jerry drew
on his long coat over his dress, and darted out
into the road in the direction Hermann had
taken, knowing he could not have gone far.

Only a few steps and he saw him on the other
side of the way, just by a jeweller's shop in the
street, before which stood a carriage and pair.

Jerry darted under the horses' heads, and
reached his side. As he did so, the door of the
shop opened, and a lady came out on a gentleman's
arm. He, an old man, padded, besieged
and dressed in a style at least fifty years behind
his age ; she, a big, handsomely-dressed girl, who
accepted his lover-like attentions with great condescension.


She was talking in a rather loud tone, and almost
before he recognised her face, Jerry knew
the voice.

So also did Carl Hermann. He sprang forward
suddenly.

Rosa," he said, laying his hand on the girl's
satin-sleeved arm.

She started slightly, and the old-young man

put up his eyeglass, with an air of languid astonishment.


** Rosa, who the deuce is this fellow % "

"Some beggar, I suppose," replied the girl
coolly, shaking off the detaining hand, and stepping
into the carriage. The gentleman followed as
quickly as he was able, telling the footman to pull
up the window.

Hermann again sprang forward.

I tell you," he said, in a voice choked with
passion, " she's ray wife, and  "

"Drive on, Williams," said the lady, drawing
her mantle round her.

The order was obeyed ; but the young German's
blood was up, and, furious with rage, ere Jerry could
stay him, he had sprang to the window and clung
to it just as the carriage turned, but lost his hold,
and fell heavily to the ground. There was a
brewer's dray coming up behind, and whether
it was one of its wheels, or that of the brougham
which did the mischief, it was hard to say.

All Jerry knew was that there was a confusion
in the crowded road, a cry, and a sudden rush to
the spot, where Carl Hermann lay crushed to the
earth. It was the work of a few brief moments;
then Jerry found himself by the fallen man's side,
forcing brandy down his throat, while some one
found a cab to convey him to the hospital. The
carriage had driven on ; whether its occupants
were aware of what had happened, he could not
tell.

Before the cab could be got, the ring-master.

groaning terribly, seemingly badly hurt, recovered
consciousness ; bnt when at last he was lifted into
the vehicle, he suddenly ceased moaning, and
seemed as if he would faint again.

"- Hermann, old fellow," said Jerry, bending over
him, ' are you hurt much % "

Yes, I think so ; the pain was cursed bad just
now, but it's gone all at once. I know what that
means. Tell 'em to drive quick, and put me out
of my misery."

He turned his head away and closed his eyes,
then suddenly opened them, and as Jerry was
moving away, laid a detaining hand on his arm.

I didn't know it was you. You're a good
fellow to trouble after me. I don't deserve it.
I've been playing against you all this while, but
I've lost. I staked my last chance to-night, but
it wasn't any use ; she's true as steel to you.
I'm glad I've been able to tell you  you deserve
her. I was a fool over my job. It's Rosa's doing
this  curse her ! I hope she'll get smashed up one
of these days. He'll give her up then, like she
did me. Yes, I hope she'll pay for this. I
hope"

The hand, raised as if to draw down a curse on
the head of the wife who so little deserved the
name, fell powerless to the seat, and the poor
fellow was once more insensible.

There was no more Jerry could do for him, so
he paid the cabman, who promised to see him
safely to the hospital.

Carl Hermann and Lisette never met again.

The injuries he had received told upon an ah-lady
shattered constitution. He Angered on for some
few days, then died, alone and friendless ; he who
had once had his life bright and fair before him.
The book was closed now, till the day when its
soiled, crumpled pages should be known to all men.

Jerry stood for one or two moments on the
scene of the accident after the cab and its senseless
burden had driven away. Then suddenly he
became aware that his peculiar appearance was
causing the remainder of the crowd some amusement.


He woke from his dream with a queer smile,
and set off at full speed to the circus tent, bounding
over the few steps like one who walks " on "
air.

The accident had been over in a few moments,
but in a few more it would be time for him to
take his turn with Lisette, for they were to go on
together as usual.

He flung his coat into the dressing-room, and
without staying to rearrange his dress, went once
more to the ante-room.

It was full of people now, all asking where he
was, all ready to surround him on his appearance.
But he slipped unobserved to the farthest corner
of the tent, where, waiting with a shade of fear
on her face, was the little Fay of Fire. He stole
softly to her side, and bent and kissed her softly.

She started, but he held both her hands in his,
and looked down into her eyes ; and, in spite of
the paint and powder, she knew by his own grey

ones that there was nothing now to fear  nothing
to fear at all, but too much happiness.

*' Where is the fellow? I do believe he'll be
late," muttered one of the little group of performers
gathered near.

Jerry smiled softly to himself He knew he
was not " too late " this time.

Adhere are they ? " cried Will Breakneck in
great anger. " Where are they? "

Here," said Jerry, unfastening Lisette's cloak,
whispering as he did so,  *' Come, little Liz, my
wife that is to be ; I'm ready ; we go together,
now, and always. Come."

And then, hand in hand, they began their life
again.

And so we leave them, clown and rider,

In the Ring.

