Marriage

HO

AUTHOR OF

"GfTOYENNE Jacqueline

m

4? * 4? * 4*

jv - JjV Jp

**  t%  K %

j-r:-'.  



K23sc
v.\

/

C fLxAsCS,

>f

Cksi

I

c

7"  6*4)*

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

L161 O-1096

BY

SARAH Tatler

AUTHOR OP

SCOTCH FIRS' .'CTTOYENNE JACQUELINE' &C.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved]

Cowper

OF

THE First VOLUME.

.Lai PEGGY.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. Bridegroom and Bridegroom's Friend . . 3

II. Peggy's Wedding 22

> III. Peggy's Welcome Home 48

IV. The Long Days that followed . . . . 71

V. The Reign of Misrule 92

VI. 'Lady Peggy' Ill

VII. ' Hunting tower ' 133

viii. Peggy's Friends 158
IX. The Lessons that Primrose gave while Bal-carrie

LOOKED ON 182

X. 'A' WILL BE Right AGAIN GIN JAMIE WERE

COME BACK ' . . 209



JEAN KIN LOCH

Chapter

I. Jean Scorned .

II. Bob Muffin's Amends .

III. Jean's Reprisals

VOL. I.

BRIDEGROOM AND BRIDEGROOM'S Friend.

During the last century there was little real
difference between young Drumsheugh and
young Balcairnie, the young laird and the
young yeoman, 1 who was also the laird's chief
tenant and chosen friend. Jamie Ramsay, of
Drumsheugh, and Jock Home, of Balcairnie,
both rejoicing in a territorial appellation, had
sat together on the same bench in the same
parish school. For that matter Jock, though
not particularly scholarly, as the cleverer of the

1 In Scotland the distinction "between a yeoman farmer 
one who owns his farm  and a tenant farmer is not strictly
preserved. The term yeoman is, or was, employed indiscriminately
to any farmer.

b 2

two, had generally sat above his companion.
The boys had played together in the same
games of ball and hockey. In company they
had scoured the fields together after birds'
nests, nuts, and haws. They had in their
green youth worn and torn the same corduroys
little different in quality, and satisfied their
hearty appetites on the same wholesome porridge
and kail, oatmeal cakes, and ' bannocks
o' barley,' for the laird's table was not much
more daintily supplied than the farmer's.

Even the lads' homes were on the outside
not so different as might have been expected.
Drumsheugh had an avenue of crazy fir trees,
and the dignity of a ruined tower about a bowshot
from the high, narrow, free-stone house
which represented the modern mansion. Bal-carrie
was just such another house, a storey
lower, without the avenue and the tower. It
was not destitute of compensation for these
deficiencies in the comfortable-looking stack-yard,

which sheltered it from every wind that
blew, and in the square of the farmyard which
abutted on the house, and was alive and cheerful
with domestic animals, and the constant
work going on among them. Balcairnie was
the livelier dwelling of the two. Both houses
had long gardens very similar, prolific in hardy
vegetables and primitive fruit, as well as in old-fashioned
flowers. The gardens found room
for umbrageous bowers and Dutch summerhouses,
and. included beech and holly hedges,
which enclosed washing-greens.

Inside, the best parlour of Balcairnie might
have stood for the dining-room of Drumsheuirh
furnished as they both were with Scotch
carpets and oak, and adorned alike with silver
cups, won in coursing matches, and great
Chinese punch-bowls brought home by friendly
sea captains. The chief difference lay in the
fact that the dining-room at Drumshengh was inconstant
use, while the piece de resistance

among the apartments in Balcairnie was the
ordinary parlour, given over to drugget and
blue-ands white checked linen, with ornaments
of no more costly material than cherry-wood
pipes, pink-lipped shells, and peacocks' feathers.
Again, there was no drawing-room at Bal-carrie,
with spindle-legged chairs in painted
satin-wood and white chintz covers, such as
was the company room at Drumsheugh. But
the boys' bare little garret dormitories were
much alike.

On the rare occasions, when the lads went
from home, unattended by their parents, they
journeyed by one conveyance which served the
whole neighbourhood, except on special occasions
 Tarn Freemen's carrier's cart.

True, on leaving school young Drumsheugh
had gone to the Edinburgh University, as became
his birth and rank, while young Balcairnie
had entered on the apprenticeship implied in
holding a plough and drawing a straight furrow

under the critical eyes of his father and
his father's foreman, according to the standard
for young men in his class ; but on the return
of the one lad from the college and the promotion
of the other on the death of his father
to the possession of all the pairs of horses on
the farm, instead of the obligation to work one
pair, the occupations and amusements of the old
allies tallied once more at many points.

Young Drumsheugh  young only in years,
for his father had died long before Balcairnie's
father, and the laird had grown up under the
rule of a widowed mother  was a scion of the
great house of Dalhousie, the representative of
a family of respectable though not very wealth"
country gentry that had. held up their heads
among their equals for the last three hundred
years at least. Young Balcairnie, though his
father, grandfather and great-grandfather had
been tenants of Balcairnie as long as the oldest
living man in the neighbourhood could recollect,

knew nothing further of his origin than
what was to be deciphered on a few mossy
stones leaning over in Craigture kirk yard.
These did not condescend to mention whether
the Homes of Balcairnie came of the great
Berwickshire Homes or not. The rude, half-effaced
letters only gave the brief, if graphic,
statement that here lay ' the could corp ' of
Dauvit,' or Alexander, or John Home, as it
might be.

But blue blood must have spoken out very
unmistakably, if it had drawn a sharp line
between two lads whose rearing, casts of mind,
tastes and pursuits were so much in common.
For the laird farmed the home farm, and the
yeoman was one of the first in the hunting
field, though he did not attend the hunt bail.
The young men; like the boys, wore as a
rule the same every-day suits  no longer of
corduroy, but of home-spun. Good brown
woollen stuff, shorn, spun, and woven in the

district, diversified by yellow buckskins, boots
and tops, red waistcoats, and three-cornered
hats. The manly build of the pair rivalled
each that of the other. Both were deep-chester,
broad-shouldered, long and clean-limbed,
with arms, not unused to fencing and
boxing, quite capable of keeping the owners'
heads. The corresponding legs came out
strong at coursing matches without the aid of
riding horses, while the feet beat the floor
resoundingly in reels and country dances for
well-nigh a round of the clock at every merrymaking,
great and small, far and near. The
comely ruddy faces under the three-cornered
hats might almost have been those of brothers,
except that Druinsheugh was dark and Bal-carrie
fair in hair and complexion.

The men met at the kirk, they met at
the market, they dined at the same table in
the George Inn of the little town of Craigie
on the market-day, they resorted to the same

coffee-room to read the same newspaper, with
its. chronicle of war prices, victories of His
Majesty's forces abroad, and meal mobs at home,
while the laird and the farmer frequently rode
home together, so long as their roads were
one.

Balcairnie would dine several times at
Drumsheugli in the course of the winter, and
if the Lady  Drumsheugh's mother  was a
thought stately, and kept her visitors somewhat
at a distance, all in a perfectly courteous way,
that was not the laird's fault. He did his best
to make up for it by being ' Jack-fellow-alike '
with his tenant when Drumsheuo'h returned
Balcairnie's visits at the farm-house. Indeed
it was well known to the Lady herself that
Drumsheugli, though he could carry himself
well enough in any society, was not guilty of
offence against any and was liked in all ranks,
showed at this stage of his development a
perilous preference for humbler company than

he had been born to. He would rather accompany
Balcairnie to a ' maiden ' * or penny
wedding, and enter with all his soul into the
prevailing fun and frolic, rendering himself
the most acceptable guest in the motley assemblage,
than go where Balcairnie could not go
with him, to what was by comparison the
high and dry. hunt balls and subscription
assemblies.

There is this to be said in excuse for
Drumsheugh's low tastes, that the maidens and
weddings  penny and otherwise  not less than
the markets of those days were freely frequented
by guests  male guests especially

1 A harvest-home, so called from the last sheaf of corn
cut on the farm for the season. Jt was allowed to fall to the
share of the best shearer or reaper, who tied it up with ribands
so that it might take the semblance of a doll. It was then
hung conspicuously as the chief adornment of the principal
wall of the barn in which the ' maiden '  called in the north of
Scotland the ' kirn/ was held. The decked-up sheaf was
finally carried home by its proud winner, and suspended on
the wall of her cottage, where it was treasured as a token of
her prowess. ,

many degrees higher than the mass of the
company. Besides, as is sometimes true in a
thinly peopled district, it happened that about
the time Drumsheugh came of age, the county
circle round him was remarkably deficient in
young people of his own age, above all in
young people endowed with such attractions
as were likely to seize, and retain the laird.

Neither could the step be called a great
descent, when in mind and manners so many
were nearly on one level. For instance, not
only had Drumsheugh and Balcairnie been
fellow-scholars at the same parish school, but
another contemporary scholar was little Peggy
Hedderwick, the daughter of a ,
who had brought her doubled-up scone
and whang of cheese tied up in a napkin for
her dinner at school, just as she had carried
her father's dinner daily when the field of his
operations was within a girl's walk from home.
Peggy, though she was the junior of both the

lads by some three to four years, had darted
nimbly ahead, with the precociously quick wit
of girls, in all learning, save sums. She had
been 'out of the Testament' and 'into Proverbs '
before either of the boys, and she had been
such an expert in repeating the shorter catechism,
from ' man's chief end ' to the Creed,
without halt or blunder, that the master himself
could not 'fichte ' (puzzle) her. She had
frequently coached her seniors and betters in
that, to them, most difficult performance. As
for the Psalms and Paraphrases, she could
repeat them by heart in her shrill sing-song,
till the master, though he was a licentiate of
the Kirk, grew weary of hearing her. It was
even seriously believed in the school that
she had surmounted the Ass's Bridge of the
curriculum and could say right off, if anybody
would stay to listen to her, the whole of the
Hundred and Nineteenth Psalm. She could
write a fine round hand, with an occasional

clerkly flourish at the tail of a letter. It was
at sums that Peggy hung her head. The
multiplication table, with its barren chart of
commercial details, brightened by a green
spot on which fancy and sentiment could feed,
had brought her to grief, and taken the pride
of intellect out of the white-headed lassie. The
lads who came through this test triumphantly
had tried to help her in turn. But it was in
vain  poor Peggy would never make even a
decent arithmetician. It must only be by
counting her fingers that she could ever reckon
her earnings and her spending.

Peggy Hedderwick, grown up into the bonniest
lass for many a mile, w r as now the
acknowledged belle of every rustic merrymaking
in the parish of Craigture. She was
a great deal more and better than such a
distinction often implies. She was something
else than a blue-eyed, white-skinned, red-cheeked
maiden, with a slim yet well-rounded

figure, a pretty foot and ankle, though they
went bare six clays out of the seven  unless in
the depth of winter, a trim waist, a slender
throat, a delicate chin, a dainty mouth, as
good a nose as if she had been born a Eamsay 
or, as far as that goes, a Stewart, and a broad
enough brow to explain her early attainments
in the Psalms and Paraphrases. She was even
something more than an innocent creature in
whom there was little guile, a modest child to
soil whose modesty would be a gross sin and
shame in the eyes of every man worthy of the
name. She was an industrious, upright, pious
soul, the stay  by means of Peggy's busy wheel
principally, of her widowed mother. For the
hedger and ditcher, exposed to every inclemency
of the weather, had early paid the debt
of nature. Peggy discharged faithfully all
obligations known to her. She was a reverent,
unfailing worshipper  one of the favourite
lambs of the flock with the elderly uncouth

book-worm of a dominie, who had progressed
from the parish school to the parish kirk, and
was in either place an excellent man, master,
and minister.

It was to this fair, sweet, and good young
Peggy Hedderwick that Drumsheugh, wilful
and masterful in his simple condescension, paid
unfailing homage. He sought her out  for
she never threw herself in his way  wherever
she was to be found. He went with Balcairnie
under a hundred pretexts to wherever the
laird fancied there was the most distant chance
of meeting Peggy. To bleaching-greens,
quilting-parties, Handsel-Monday games, even
kirk-preaching, her sorely-smitten swain followed
Peggy desperately. He made little disguise
of his infatuation, and put small restraint
on his inclinations in scenes, where, as a welcome
visitor from another sphere, he was
allowed, it must be confessed, a considerable
amount of license. He would dance with no

other, he would sit by no other, he would
convoy Peggy home when the play was ended.

Soon the state of the case was no secret in
the neighbourhood, with its various circles,
among them that presided over by the old
Lady of Drumsheugh. The folly and the
danger, with what would come of it all,
were commented on and canvassed everywhere.
The sole cover to his actions, which
Drumsheugh chose to assume, was that he
went about in these lower regions under Bal-carrie's
wing, as it were. The laird insisted
on taking the yeoman with him in all his
excursions and escapades.

This was some small comfort to Mrs.
Eamsay. Balcairnie was, if anything, the
wiser and more prudent of the two, and she
felt he was, in a sense, on his honour to
protect his friend from the consequences of
Drumsheugh's rashness. Perhaps the Lady
also counted a little, in the imminence of the

vol. i. c

peril  for Drumsheugli was already of age and
his own master, on a theory which was prevalent
among the gossips. They said Balcaimie
had been the first captivated by the charms of
young Peggy, though he had at once drawn
back from rivalry with his laird, and that
Peggy on her part had smiled on the farmer
till a bigger star appeared in her firmament,

Even Balcairnie's marriage with Peggy
would be a great mesalliance, but it would not
be so heinous an infringement of all social laws
as Drumsheugh's stooping to a cotter lass,
either honestly or in sin and shame. Bal-carrie's
mother as well as his father was dead,
his sisters were married, and his brothers out
in the world, so that he was a lone man  if a
man can ever be called lone, able to disgrace
nobody save himself, by an unequal marriage.

The old *Lady of Drumsheugli was particularly
gracious to Balcairnie at this time. She
inquired after his house, if it was in good

repair with the perishing in order ? She hinted
at the propriety, no less than the probability, of
his stiff old housekeeper being superseded by
an active young wife. After the next sentence
or two, she went the length of asking meaningly
for bonnie Peggy Hedderwick, who was
so good to her mother and so clever with her
hands. Had she not won the maiden at the
last harvest ? Was not her yarn more in request
in Craigie market than that of any other girl
or matron in Craigture? And the Lady had
heard that from Luckie Hedderwick's couple of
hens Peggy had reared the finest brood of
chickens that were to be seen that Candlemas.
Such qualities in a young woman were worth
her weight in gold, Mrs. Eamsay declared impressively,
with her keen eyes fixed steadily
on the listener. She had the greatest respect
for that girl. The Lady plainly suggested that
a farmer, whatever might be said of a laird,
need seek no richer dower with his wife than
c 2

Peggy had to bestow. If the laird's mother
were a consistent woman, no doubt she would
call on Peggy and do the Lady's best to countenance
her son's tenant's wife, should Peggy
receive the promotion of becoming the mistress
of Balcairnie.

To this stroke of policy Balcairnie merely
replied by returning the lady's fixed stare, with
a full and grave stolid look from blue eyes which
were not unlike Peggy's.

If Balcairnie had ever entertained a tender
inclination towards Peggy, it made no ill-blood
between him and his friend the laird. It was
probably early nipped in the bud by the fact
that Peggy's favours had been swiftly transferred,
ere they were well bestowed, from
Balcairnie to Drumsheugh. Balcairnie was
once heard reproaching her, more waggishly
than bitterly, ' Ay, Peggy, when I gie you a
turn in the reel, fient a kiss you grant me now,
gin the laird be by.' Por Peggy, with all her

virtues, was a woman still. She was caught
while her fancy was yet hovering in its flight,
by the glamour of superior rank. Both of her
admirers were bonnie and fine lads to her, in the
first blush of their admiration, and while both
were above her in station, there was not much
to choose between them. But the hardship,
and perhaps the greater boldness of Drums-hugh,
turned " the scales, and after a few
months of ardent courtship Peggy was as far
gone as her lover. She would no more have
permitted a comparison between the merits of
Drumsheugh and Balcairnie  though the latter
was her very good friend just as he was the
laird's  than she would have suffered the old
bed-ridden mother who had borne her and
toiled for her to be matched with any other
woman in the kingdom, be she Queen Charlotte
seated with her golden sceptre in her
hand by the side of King George on the
throne.

CHAPTER II.
peggy's wedding.

There came a crisis to all those thoughtless
daring doings, and it did not proceed from the
old Lady of Drumsheugh, much as she loved to
lead in life. She had ruled with a high hand
her old husband, who, if all tales were true,
was not an easy person to guide ; bat his
young son, with his easy temper and pleasant
speech to the world at large, though he was a
good son at home when he was let alone,
threatened to prove too much for her.

There was another mother in the case, as
has been signified,  poor old Luckie Reddere
 who had never been considered more

than a sickly ' feckless ' body in her best days,,
and who was now bed-ridden and dependent
on her daughter's industry for her daily bread.
Whether Lnckie had been from the first an
accomplished and hardened deceiver so that
she could at last bring forward a strategy
worthy of the rival mother  the Lady of
Drumsheugh ; whether the approach of death
began to unseal" her dim and dull eyes, and to
teach the foolish, ignorant old woman wisdom
beyond all earthly sagacity ; whether the former
dominie who visited his aged and sick parishioner
at the cottage in Peggy's unavoidable
absence, was secretly at the bottom of the
manoeuvre, Luckie He elder wick suddenly set an
interdict on all future friendship and love-making
between Peggy and the laird. The
old woman had been till then as silly and
inconsiderate as any lass in her teens in taking
the greatest pride and pleasure in Peggy's
triumphs and conquests, and in encouraging

the girl in what other people held to be
Peggy's sins of vanity and unwarrantable
ambition ; but she now forbade her child,
under pain of her mother's lamentations and
reproaches  which were worse than her wrath
so much as to have a meeting with the
gentleman, if she could possibly foresee and
prevent it.

Peggy was broken-hearted and in despair,
but she never dreamt of defying, and still less
of cheating, her mother.

The laird, arrested in the full force of his
passion, was goaded to the brink of madness
and driven half beside himself. No more well-understood
fore gatherings with Peggy ; no more
intercepting of the girl on her way to the
well, or the shop, or a neighbour's house ; no
more strolls among the whigs and broom 1 in
the twilight, .careless who saw ; no more walks

He's low down, he's in the broom,
That's waiting: for me.

ing of his horse  or leaping from the saddle
and walking himself  beside her when he came
up with her, which he was pretty sure to do,
on the return of both from Craigie market ; no
more climbing of the breezy, heathery hill and
descending on the other side where the green
trees shaded the road, throwing a white shower
of blossom there in the spring, being full of
birds singing as they rifled the fruit in summer,
and in autumn dropping blood-shot leaves
among the mud and mire. The laird would
gallantly insist on placing Peggy's basket before
him on the saddle, or would carry it for her.
Balcairnie either trotting on with a passing nod,
or falling discreetly into the background, determined
to show that he was not curious overmuch,
or bent on spoiling sport.

The spectacle had hardly been an improving
one. The young laird had been
demeaning himself in some lights, trifling with
a poor country girl, and exposing her, as he

ought not to have done, to serious misconstruction
and harm. Peggy, like a senseless girl,
had been laying herself open to scandal and
slander and a hundred graver dangers. Still
the pair had been a pretty pair, however ill-matched
 there is no denying it. The laird in
his riding-coat and boots and tops, gaily flourishing
his silver-mounted whip ; Peggy in her
blue-wandered striped linsey-woolsey petticoat,
white apron, blue-ancl-biuT striped jacket, and
her duffle mantle if it chanced to be wintry
weather ; her Mr hair either bare and tied up
with a riband  the relic of the old snood or
cockernonie, or else covered by a Bessie-well 
a quilted cotton or woollen hood  under the
curtains of which the bonnie face beamed with
the mingled shyness and gladness of a child's
face.

In a similar manner the larger groups, in
which many minor figures had been represented
with varying effect, were effaced from

the canvas. These had shown Peggy on the
harvest field where the laird, like Boaz of old,
shared the labour and the mid-day meal of his
servants. Detaching Peggy from the rest, he
would act as ' bands ter ' to her shearing, or he
would sit at her feet, and decree that as an
equivalent to dipping her morsel in the vinegar,
she should have her choice of the scones in the
basket and the first draught of ale from the
pitcher. In those days Peggy was the queen
of the autumn fields  a gentle queen who
bore the honours thrust upon her meekly
Still she did not fail to arouse animadversion,
and the entire tableau tended rather to the
entertainment than the edification of the spectators.


The sensations of the company were not of a
much more generous or amiable description when
Peggy was persuaded to fling her handkerchief
to Drumsheugh in the coquettish old dance of
 The Country Bumpkin ; ' or when, at the entreaty

of her lover, she sang with her flute-like
pipe to a decorously hushed assembly, or sat as
mute as a mouse while he sang in his trumpet
tones. Her song might be ' Ye Banks and
Braes,' or ' Aye waken ! waken aye and
weary '  both of which ditties held tender
warnings to heedless girls, if they would but
have taken the hints  or it might be some
brother measure. But his song never varied.
It was always the bold, barefaced declaration 

Young Peggy blooms our bonniest lass,

Her breath is like the morning,
The rosy dawn, the springing grass

With early gems adorning.

with a peculiar emphasis on the verse 

Te powers of honour, love, and truth,

From every ill defend her;
Inspire the highly-favoured youth

The destinies intend her.

The laird could not stand the abrupt,
harsh interference which in the twinkling of
an eye dissolved these enchanting scenes. It

would cost him his wits. He would rather
carry off Peggy, with or without her will,
where nobody should ever come between them.
What did she mean by giving him up at any
third person's word, be that person her mother
twice over ? Had the two-faced lass no heart
in her breast ? He would be upsides with her
yet, for the pain and mortification she was
causing him. He confided all this to Bal-carrie,
who gave no further answer than a
shake of his head and a resolute ' I'll no be
your man in sic an ill job, Drumsheugh,' so
the laird went on fuming and storming if he
did not speak of ' louping over a linn.'

The comical side of the question was that
he was his own master all the time to do what
he liked in the circumstances. He had been
left the Laird of Drumsheugh without limitation.
He could marry Peggy Hedderwick tomorrow,
in spite of his mother, and it was not
likely that Peggy or her mother for her, would

decline a plain offer of marriage from so high
a quarter, or that either would draw so fine a
distinction as to refuse the proposed honour,
unless it were accompanied by the free and full
consent of the Lady to her son's throwing himself
away.

But, somehow, the laird stopped short of
such rank insubordination and thoroughgoing
independence. There was a strain of weakness
in his wilfulness, or else the times were against
him. People had not yet shaken off the old
feudal prejudices. Drumsheugh, in his simplicity
and homeliness, was still, both in his
own estimation and in that of other people, the
Laird, the scion of the great house of Dalhousie,
and Peggy was the cotter lass, come of
hands and nobodies. Balcairnie, who was not
so far before her in the last respect, might
have married her without reservation, though
she was by no means his social equal ; but
the most disinterested unworldly version of

the affair which the most single-hearted judges
looked for from Drumsheugh was that he
should be found fond enough of Peggy, and
faithful enough to her, while he was sufficiently
regardless of his own interests, to engage in a
secret ancient troth-plight equivalent to a
marriage with her, and right in the eyes of the
law, though it was censurable by the Kirk. It
would be a contract which must hamper him
all his days, and if he were ever so far left to
himself as to seek to evade it, might drag him
down to crime and misery. Why on such
small temptation, out of two courses  the one
clear and above-board, the worst consequences
of which would be faced at once  the other a
flattering more than half-cowardly compromise
done in the dark, and only coming to the light
and encountering the natural results after a long
interval  a " manly fellow like the laird should
inevitably, as if it were a matter of necessity,
have adopted the second and lower course,

remains a testimony to the force of habit and
of one-sided reasoning.

The laird had been accustomed to set his
mother at nought in what seemed right in his
own eyes. He was not dependent on her in
money matters, and did not give a thought to
the risk of forfeiting the savings of her jointure,
since he was at this stage of his development
as free-handed as he was open-hearted. Still, he
could not summon up his courage to brave the
high-spirited, determined old woman altogether.
In the same way he could not make up his
mind to despise the clamour and opposition of
his circle of gentry, little as he had hitherto
prized the hereditary association with them.

Drumsheugh, when he w r as compelled to a
decision, never dreamed of a more generous
and honourable step than that of running away
with Peggy,' and vowing that he was her husband
before two available witnesses ; nay, the
idea of anything less temporising and more

magnanimous did not even cross Balcairnie's
mind. It was in serene satisfaction with the
concession that he agreed to back the laird as
usual in waylaying Peggy, in spite of her
mother's commands, and in propounding to her
the grand yet sorry expedient for getting rid of
all objections in future, by establishing the
couple in the sure, if unacknowledged, relations
of man and wife. 

After some spying and picking up of
floating information, the two friends learnt that
Peggy, while she now kept religiously indoors
with her mother, for the most part of her time,
was in the custom of recompensing the neighbour
who went most of the girl's errands. This
reward consisted in Peggy's ' caring,' or driving
out, the neighbour's cow in the cool of the
morning and late evening of the June season,
to feed for an hour or two on the grass by the
dyke sides and ditches, or on the short turf of a
single knowe, which rose in solitary dignity

VOL. I. D

among the flat corn-fields. The road to the
knowe was for a certain distance that to
Craigie, so often trodden in happier circumstances.
The knowe itself, with its patches of
rushes, had been Peggy's seat when as a child
she had played at plaiting the ' thrushes ' into
a crown and sceptre. She was an only childlike
her lover, and had known few playmates
save her school companions. She had been
used to lonely hours and single-handed games.
Her most intimate friend in later times had
been her ardent admirer the laird, whom she
was now forbidden to see or speak to. He
had been with her on this knowe when the
dew lay on the grass and the corn-crank was
charming,' as it was at the present moment.
He had made a posy for her of what Peggy
merely called ' bonnie floors,' but which were
in detail the dead white grass of Parnassus that
grew among the rushes, together with the
crimson and pink fumitory and the yellow

avens which he had gathered idly as they came
along, leaving hedge-row and dyke-side behind
them. He had shown the greatest kindness
and patience in helping her to draw out the
pith of the rushes and plait it  no longer into
a mock crown and sceptre, but into a real
wick for her mother's cruise.

All these soft recollections proved too
much for poor Peggy, as she card Hawkie ;
the girl put up her apron to her eyes to dry
the blinding tears which rendered her more
incapable of detecting prowlers in her vicinity.

Then with the practical agility of the river
of old, the laird ' cam ' skipping over the hill '
from the little hollow on the other side, to
which he and Balcairnie had ridden, and where
the latter stayed with the horses.

In a moment Jamie Eamsay was by the
sorrowful girl's side, detaining her when she
sought to retreat.

Peggy wore her summer house dress, the

D 2

pretty light cotton jacket which has been immortalised
by Wilkie and Sir William Allen.
It had a little collar or ' neck,' turned over
where the sunburn of the throat met the whiteness
of the bosom, and was only confined at
the waist by the string of her apron. Her
round arms were bare to the elbow, the sleeves
of her jacket being rolled up for convenience ,
sake. The arms were mottled and dimpled
like those of a child. Her brown little feet
too were bare. Her uncovered hair was
arranged in the most primitive style  after all
it is the fashion of the great Greek statues.
The locks c which the wind used to law ' were
6 shed ' behind the ears, wound round the head,
rippling in natural ripples as they were wound,
until they were fastened in a knot at the back
of the shapely head. Yet no stately ball-room
belle in flowing gauze or rustling brocade, with
high-heeled shoes and a higher powdered tete,
had ever appeared half so sweet as Peggy to

the enamoured young]' laird. He was not
caught in undress. He came a-courting her  ashe
was bound to do, though she had been a
beggar maid, and not merely an industrious
cotter lass, who supported herself and her
mother by the fruits of her honest industry. He
wore his best snuff-brown coat, his last flowered

Marriages

AUTHOR OF

HiTOYENNE Jacqueline" 8

# *.# * # * >J? * # >

M Low a ga ggi . s a g A. ' J' Susa*

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

8Z3

K23sc

v.2

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

FEB i 1

L161 O-1096

BY

SARAH Tatler

AUTHOR OP

SCOTCH Ears' 'CITOYENNE JACQUELINE' &.C.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME

HARRY BA'FOUR's ELOPEMENT.

CHAPTER Page

I. Harry Balfour 3

II. Harry Balfour's Friend 18

III. A Lord of Less a Client in his turn . . 46

IV. The Travellers by an old Edinburgh and

London Coach . . . . .73

V. The End of the Adventure . . . . Ill

HAMESUCKEN.'

I. Wat Baillie's Ordination and Settlement . 139

II. Wat Baillie's Induction 161

CHAPTER PAGE

III. The Misses Kirkpatrick Visit to . Mrs. and

Miss Baillie, with the talk which came

of it . . 190

IV. Bruges Second Meeting with the Minister

AT THE POG-o'-MONY-STANES . . . 21(J

V. The Minister's Lot . . . . . 257

VI. Life in the Manse of Birkenbarns . . 274

ELOPEMENT

vol. n.

HARRY BA'FOUR.

Harry Balfour sat supping his porridge and
milk and studying a plea, a clause for every spoon L
ful, in his private room in his house in the Old
Town of Edinburgh . Harry emptied his bowl 
more correctly his wooden ' cap '  of porridge
and milk every morning as regularly as he
emptied his ' tappit hen ' of claret, in good company,
at his own particular tavern every evening.
And he made the first performance the accompaniment
of the final preparation of his work
for the day, as a schoolboy with a conscience
gives a last glance over his previously learnt
lessons while he munches his buttered roll and

B 2

drains the contents of his coffee cup. Though
the ostrich-like capacity, physical and mental,
of youth ought to have been long passed with
Harry, neither his digestion nor his judgments 
for his place was among the Daniels of the Bench
suffered in consequence of his daily practice.
Harry Balfour was one of the mighty men of a
former century, those giants of the old Scotch
Law Courts with whose feats  gastronomical,
bibulous, intellectual  readers are familiar. His
decisions were so full of natural sagacity and
acquired learning  massive yet not cumbrous,
like the man himself  that they have passed
into wise sayings in his profession, and linger
in the form of unanswerable precedents in the
grand, hoary Parliament House where his
bodily presence  a magnificent physique  once
fitly figured.

Harry was sixty years if he was a day, yet
his muscular strength was little impaired, while
the grasp of his mind and the fire of his heart

were still less abated. He sat there, big, sound,
fresh, and warm at the core, little worn by time
or work, or that worry and faintheartedness
with the disappointments of life, which are the
greatest destroyers of all. His capacious forehead,
at the present moment unshadowed by a
wig of any kind, was made still more prominent
by its baldness. His eyes looked out keenly,
while they were apt to twinkle and melt, as a
condition of their penetration. His large expressive
mouth was mobile instead of coarse,
his solid chin doubled itself literally and genially
so as to double not only the work but the pay
of Harry's humble crony the barber. Harry
Balfour was a man of stately presence, with the
stateliness no more injured by the homeliness of
his meal than the fineness of his cambric frills
suffered from their contact with the old snuff-brown
coat which he used by way of dressing-gown.
In a button-hole of the coat he wore
a common garden daisy with the dew still

trembling on it, for, early as the morning hour
was, Harry Balfour had taken his morning walk
still earlier. These were the happy days not
only of morning walks, but of country fields
and cottage gardens in easy proximity to the
town.

Harry Balfour 's primitive room was little
better than a closet fitted up with book-shelves
laden with volumes in calf, shabby from use,
dog-eared, pulled about, lying face downwards,
a ragged and battered regiment in full discharge
of its duty. His single table, squeezed into
its place, was groaning under its burden of law
papers, among which it had required some care
and skill on the part of the particular serving
lass in attendance to introduce the master's
porridge cap without doing damage. Harry's
chair, the only valuable article of furniture in
the room  and it was without much value in
those days, a high-backed richly-carved oak
chair with a faded cut velvet cushion, which

might have been abstracted from the neighbouring
palace of Holyrood, was planted heavily on
the shabby strip of carpet, and so wedged between
the book-shelves and the table that the
judge might have his books at his elbow while
his papers were at his finger ends. There were
many spacious, even nobly proportioned rooms
in the old High Street house of gentle antecedents,
but these were consecrated to the use of
members of the family who were people of
more consequence in the house than its master.
For that matter, Lord Balfour deferred to his
son and daughters with a voluntary humility 
half chivalrous, half belonging to a strain of
weakness in his character. However, he was
not only fain to submit to having a closet for a
study, in that age of superb indifference to space,
air, and light, he remained perfectly satisfied
with the limited dimensions of his den. He was
innocently persuaded, not merely that a closet
was the proper style of room for a study,

but that his closet was the snuggest and most
convenient owned by any judge or lawyer in
Edinburgh.

It is a notable point in the idiosyncrasy of
Harry Balfour that while he bad risen to the
honours of a judge, wore his Majesty's ermine,
was formally addressed on the bench as my lord,
and invested at other times with the title of Lord
Balfour, which he had earned for himself, he
remained Harry Balfour with old and young,
gentle and simple  to his face in the case of his
companions and social equals, barely behind his
back in the mouths of his juniors and retainers,
universally on the tongues of the public and the
mob. It is even said that a prisoner w r hom Lord
Balfour had never seen before, and on whom he
had just passed sentence, addressed to him a piteous
appeal for mercy in the familiar terms, ' Oh !
Harry Balfour, will ye no grant me grace ? ' And
that the judge, in place of standing aghast at the
unheard-of liberty, turned aside overcome by the

brotherliness of the adjuration, and with difficulty
restrained his desire to set his own finding aside,
and so defeat the ends of justice. The practice,
far from having anything to do with a slight to
Harry Balfour's claims, was an integral part of
his peculiar fame and favour. It cannot be
said that the feature in Harry's character which
produced this intimate connection with his
fellow creatures bore no base fruit of contempt
in the contemptible, of discontent and disapproval
in the narrow and formal. But it may be
asserted that in all those men and women of a
past generation who rose above petty definitions
and restrictions, and who had any largeness and
tenderness of nature, Harry Balfour's broad 
accessibility shall we call it ? his intense humanity
exceeding even his genius and learning,
kindled a deeper and more lasting enthusiasm.

But Harry himself, in his partial consciousness
of that side of his mental constitution
which distinguished him specially from the mass

of his fellows, and in which lay alike his greatest
strength and his utmost weakness, felt
affronted at his own eccentricity. In the humility
of his gifts, he counted certain qualities and
propensities to be struggled against and hidden
from observation. He knew that his grown-up
children, who resembled their dead mother and
were not like Harry  his son, Mr. Henri
Balfour, who had not been called ' Harry ' from
the time he was in his cradle, Miss Kirsten and
Mrs. Weir, who had returned to her father's
house a widow, and fallen back on his bounty
to support her and her children  each condemned
unconditionally the judge's unconquerable
frankness and friendliness, his rash, boyish
impulses, his outbreaks of feeling and escapades
in action, his very penitence for the oddities
which helped to constitute him a humorist,
and caused Edinburgh to ring with good stories
of his mad pranks (at sixty !) quite as much as
with the wisdom of his deliverance.

It is hard upon a man to be painfully conscious
that he is capable of scandalising his own
children. Probably it is doubly hard, though
it ought not to be so, when the offence is the
result of some ineradicable constitutional vagary
of which he cannot get rid  rather than of a
wilful lapse from the path of virtue. For, as to
the last, Harry Balfour, the great lawyer and
judge, was acknowledged unanimously to be an
honest man and a worthy gentleman, who in an
age of few scruples and many excesses had kept
his heart wonderfully uncorrupted and his
hands exceptionally clean. But all the more
Harry hung his head for his foibles before Ins
own prudent and proper offspring, before his
very servants. The last were chosen by Miss
Kirsten, the mistress of the household, and
under her rule, the plague of the small self-righteousness
and petty intolerance had spread.
The servants were guilty of pitying their master
in a scornful way and even of bearing a grudge

against him because he did not always keep the
appointed domestic hours, clothe, feed, and
generally conduct himself according to strict
precedent, but would occasionally let dinner or
supper wait, omit some time-honoured ceremony,
make a mistake about a vest or a pair
of knee-breeches, or, gravest of all offences,
inconsiderately intrude upon the high-mightiness
of his household, at the most inconvenient
season, a poor relation, an unlucky acquaintance,
a visitor of less than no account. Then
Harry would strive to atone for the enormity
with a shame-fa redness and meekness which
tempted ungenerous, coarse-grained natures to
insolence.

There was one exception to the mingled
severity and carelessness with which the idol of
the Edinburgh courts and closes was treated
under his own roof. This exception was the confidential
clerk, Gillespie, whom Harry  it maybe
in an instinct of self-defence  insisted, with

a determination unusual in him in his family
life, on keeping in the establishment. Harry
himself  not Miss Kirsten  had selected Gillespie,
a red-haired raw-boned, awkward man,
with some legal talent, who was devoted to
his master. Harry and his ugly familiar could
hardly be said to make common cause against the
rest of the family, seeing that the judge did not
acknowledge any conspiracy against him, and the
clerk was so true to his master that he followed
suit in this as in all else, ignoring for Harry's
sake the special indignities that fell to his own
share as only Harry's spoilt factotum. Not the
less did Gillespie secretly resent the under valuing
of his master. ' The grandest judge, the best
man in the ceety or the kingdom,' Gillespie was
wont to say to himself in a white heat of wrath ;
6 to think lie should be hidden down and treated
like a laddie or a full, till he cannot say his lugs
are his ain  by Master Hendrie and a wheen
women ' (Gillespie was a confirmed bachelor as

well as something of a misogynist) ' and a doited
devil of a serving man ! ' He referred in those
disparaging terms to the dull pompous butler
on whom Miss Kirsten set such store as exactly
what a servant should be ; while Harry and
Gillespie lived on terms of the most perfect
confidence and unassailable regard.

It was Gillespie who now, without any
further intimation of his presence, stuck his
shock, red head and freckled face into the
study and announced, ' A friend' for ye, Lord
Balfour.'

Out ! what nonsense, Gillie,' exclaimed
Harry unceremoniously, as at a privileged but
baddish jest, while he paused in the act of transmitting
a spoonful of porridge to his capacious
mouth and a clause of the plea to his equally
capacious memory. c Ye ken  all the world
kens  I must be at the House within an hour.
Who should disturb me at my breakfast ? 

 It is not who should disturb your lordship,

it is aire lias disturbed ye,' corrected Gillie
pragmatically.

Well, ane must go farther.' Harry stood
up for his right to take his meal aud look over
his papers in peace, spooning away vigorously
as he spoke.

It's a 'oman, man,' Gillie took it upon him to
remonstrate in a friendly fashion.

Harry hesitated, then said  almost irritably
for him, while he plied his spoon again doggedly
' I cannot help that. I'm sure none kens
better than you, Gillie, that this Murdoch case
on which I am to sit is to be called first. Tell
the honest woman that she must go a bittie
farther. There's Charlie Carmichael, a clever
lawyer and not a bad child, in the next close,
may do her business.'

It's a teddy,' said Gillie again.

All the better,' said Harry, brightening ashe
hardened in his resolve and polished his cap.
No doubt she has a purse to fee a lawyer for

his gab. A fine lady will find no want of
advocates.'

She's an and friend,' Gillie announced at
last, and added with a sudden emphasis, ' Div
ye think I would have undisturbed on the morning
of the day of the hearing of the Murdoch
case forony other body ? It's Mistress Sandford.'

'Ailsie Hyndford, poor lassie! You auld
sorry, why did you not tell me sooner ? ' cried
Lord Balfour, starting up from his seat with
a vehemence that overturned the empty cap.
4 Show her in this minute. To keep her waiting
at the door as if she were not as free of my
room as ony bairn I have ! '

He's cleaned out his cap, illa curran ','
Gillie congratulated himself cunningly, as he
departed on his errand. ' Now, he would have
left his breakfast half-eaten and him with the
Murdoch case to hear, and fasted till his t war-hours,
if I had not kept back Mistress Hynd-
 ford's name to the last. He has nobody to look

after him but me. His daughters and Maister
Hendrie are over ta'en up wi' themselves  which
points the differ between the great and the
sraa'  to see to and make o' him ; and Harry
needs to be seen to and made oV

In spite of the open sesame to Mrs. Sandford
which Lord Balfour's words had conveyed,
as he stood waiting to receive his friend,
an air of embarrassment stole over the man's
frank, courteous bearing, in sympathy with what
he anticipated would be the embarrassment of
another. ' Poor Ailsie,' he thought, ' she must
have come on the old errand, and it is hard on
her proud spirit.'

VOL. IT.

CHAPTER II.

HARRY BA'FOUR's FRIEND.

Gillespie showed in a lady young enough to be
Lord Balfour's daughter  indeed she had been
the contemporary and companion of Kirsten
Balfour. Still the stranger was long past her
youth, with such evidence of wrecked hopes and
a wasted life in the deep-drawn lines of the face
and the dark hair thickly sprinkled with grey as
would make thirty-eight read like fifty years any
day. The fire of a pair of brilliant eyes, and
something of lingering sweetness in the mouth
pinched and dragged as it was  survived the
destruction of what might have been the
original personaFattr actions, just as the air with

winch Mrs. Hyndford's extremely shabby mode
cloak and widow's bonnet were worn remained
the unmistakable air of a gentlewoman.

1 am very glad to see you, Ailsie,' said
Lord Balfour, advancing to meet her with
earnest kindness. ' It is a long time since we
have met.'

'It is not' long  at least so I have been
thinking as I walked along,' she said hurriedly,
with an evident effort to subdue the rising
agitation which yet vibrated in a voice that was
by nature clear and full. ' It is not long to
come a score of times with the same tale ; and
do not say you are glad to see me, Lord Balfour,'
she added with some bitterness, 'when
your knowledge of the world will tell you what
brings me here again.'

At least, Ailsie, permit me to be glad that
you come to me in your straits,' he soothed her
gently.

And how do you think I must feel to come
c 2

begging and morning on the man who warned
me well beforehand what would be the upshot
of my marriage  the man whom Willie Sandford
 both the Willie Hyndfords, had the bad
grace to mock and defy, while they have
become resigned to take an awmous from him at
the last ? ' she ended, with sharp scorn of herself
and others.

Whisht ! Whisht ! Ailsie,' said Harry Balfour,
distressed and abashed as if he himself had
been the wrong-doer, ' you were always hot and
rash,' he went through the form of rebuking
her. ' If I am content to let bygones be bygones,
why need you rake them up when it can
do no good? Nay, you must sit there,' forcing
her into his seat, the only chair in the room,
and standing looking down on her kindly, a
smile breaking like sunshine through the cloud on
his face and spreading quickly over it. ' Do you
not mind how you and Kirsten would steal into
this room twenty or thirty years since, when you

were " wee white-headed Ailsie," not over six or
seven years old? and a fearless, saucy little
mistress you were, I can tell you. You would
get into my chair and call it your seat. Once I
found you half smothered in my wig and gown
which I had brought home and thrown down,
and pretending to send poor Kirsten, who was
never up to your tricks, to be banished beyond
the seas on your single word, without your
even having the trouble to charge a jury.'

It should have been all the other way,'
said Ailsie Hyndford, moving restlessly and
sighing deeply ; but smiling a little, too, at the
recollection of old times. The smile brought
out a faint reflection of the arch sweetness
which had once been the crowning charm of
her handsome, spirited face.

When he had, as he thought, ingeniously
recalled her to the footing she had formerly
held in his family, he tried to approach
delicately the object of her visit, knowing their

time was short. ' You spoke of two Willie
Hyndfords in trouble ; your son, the second.
Willie, cannot be that length yet, Ailsie ? ' he
suggested anxiously, as if sin and sorrow were
a question of years.

He's up to his neck in debt and difficulties,
Lord Balfour,' she answered, with a stern brevity
that did not hide the anguish of the confession.
He's but a lad of eighteen years, but he has
riven his father's bennet already. The first
Willie  my cousin  who was kenned far and
w T ide as " wild Willie Hyndford " when I loved
him and married him against the will and pleading
of every friend I had  one would think that he
had earned his name as far as drinking and dicing
and brawling went. And I could not win him
from his evil ways,' she put in a pathetic parenthesis,
with her eyes growing wistful, ' as I was
vain enough to think, though their end  ruin
and an untimely grave  stared him in the face
from the beginning. I can speak of it quietly

now,' she began again, ' for it has been all over,
and poor Willie, whom I was so fond and fain
to wed in the teeth of every one of you  and I
would do it again,' she cried out in her vehement
candour, 'if I were but young and
light of heart, and scant of wit and strong of
will once more  wae's me ! he has been past
harming me, gone to his account these ten years.
But the second Willie is his father over again,' she
continued excitedly and a little wildly, as if her
mistakes and misfortunes had touched her brain.
4 He has gone farther than his father ever went,
and him only eighteen,' she broke off piteously.
Then she started from her seat and caught her
old friend by the arm. ' The Willie Hyndford
you knew, the Willie who was my first foot and
valentine and partner, the gallants lad, the
finest fellow  you mind ?  in the whole town
if he were also the wildest  he never committed
an act that might send him across the
seas at his country's expense. In your ear,

my Lord do not make me speak aloud our
disgrace.'

She whispered a sentence which he stooped
down to hear.

He started back aghast and outraged. ' The
young scoundrel ! The shameless, abandoned
young villain ! ' he protested, before he could remember
to whom he was addressing the words.

She turned upon him in a moment, and
stood at bay in defence of the criminal, her
eyes  their apparent size increased by the
hollowness of her cheeks  blazing, her thin
white face flushing with the hectic, wavering
crimson which passion brings into the faces of
the old and the spent. 'How dare you say
such words in my hearing ? ' she demanded
furiously. 'Do you know whom you are
speaking to, Harry Balfour ? He's my son, my
only bairn, who slept in my arms and said his
prayers at my knee, and if his mother is not to
stand up for him  even at a higher judgment-seat

than yours, if she be permitted  to whom
should a man look for mercy ? '

'Softly, softly,' he sought to calm the
wretched mother. ' But why have you told me
this, Ailsie Hyndford ? ' Lord Balfour began to
object on his own account, walking about as far
as the space would permit him in great perturbation.
' You ken my office  you know it is
against my duty and my honour alike to become,
even unawares, the listener to a guilty tale
and not give up the guilty man to the law's just
vengeance, which he has richly merited.'

6 You will not do it,' she said, growing more
composed rather than falling into a panic at his
words. ' You would not betray my confidence
though that seat were a throne and you wore a
king's crown and mantle instead of a judge's
wig and gown. I have not known you all these
years since I played about your feet and hung
on your neck like one of your own bairns, as
you have reminded me, Harry Balfour  for

nothing. Besides, what have you in your
power except to repeat a half-demented widow-woman's
story ? You have not a grain of proof.
Can you not guess a miserable mother had craft
enough to think of all that beforehand ? ' she
asked, almost in a tone of triumph, with one of
the rapid changes of a highly-strung nature, on
which each wave of feeling, each throb of impulse,
told forcibly and showed vividly. ' You
do not ken Willie's place of hiding ; you could
not find him though you tried.'

In the next instant her whole aspect and
speech underwent another transformation  she
was the humble suppliant, the piteous pleader.
 Oh, have mercy ! ' she implored again, her eyes
brimming over with sorrow, her knees knocking
together in her misery, her arms extended in an
agony of appeal. ' Think how young he is  a
mere laddie, who should have been at his lessons
and games, his Latin and golf. If you condemn
whim to perdition, what good will it do, save to

serve as an example, which no lost spirit like
his will heed, and no steady child needs. Shall
I go down on my knees to yon to give him
another chance in another land where neither
he nor his father is known ? He is so young
his hot blood may cool, he may think better of
what is due from him, and grow a worthy man
yet. He may live happy and die respected,
with greeting bairns round his bed, long after
you and me, Harry Balfour, are lying in the
fools.'

Her auditor could not find it in his heart to
shake his head in denial, to demolish her last
forlorn hope. He had undergone a struggle
with his sense of a judge's duties. But the.
man in Harry Balfour waxed stronger than the
judge. Though he was destined to go down to
posterity as a great lawyer, he was no Brutus
to sentence his own or his friend's child. And
the man did not see that there would be much
gain to society at large by the arrest and

punishment of Willie Hyndford, or any other
culprit equally youthful and as much left to
himself  always supposing that Harry Balfour
could arrest and punish the lad, not drive
him mad by the prospect of his exposure, and
tempt him to murder as the last ghastly resource
to hide his infamy and revenge his
ruin.

Harry Balfour quickly penetrated that all
the help which Mrs. Hyndford sought was the
money to enable her son to quit the country
of his own accord. And the sum she named
reluctantly was so small that Lord Balfour felt
compelled to conclude that she must be stripping
herself in order to make up the necessary
amount.

But what will you do yourself, Ailsie ? ' he
ventured to hint ruefully as he took from the
bureau the .banknote she desired, which he
dared not make lamer, and gave it to her.
' That loon Willie should have thought of you

before he came to this pass  I may say that
without incurring your displeasure.'

My lord,' she put him off with a pathetic
echo of the gaiety he remembered well, ' you
have a head bald by time as well as powdered
by Jock Howe the barber, you are one of the
King's judges, and not the least in the House
else folk lie. You must have found that we
reverse the commandment, it is the fathers and
mothers who honour their children and not the
children their parents. There is a story of a
bird  of the vulture kind, think ye ?  that fed
its young with its heart's blood. Would you 
and you a father yourself, have a woman with
a soul to be saved, less devoted than a bird of
prey, or do you deny me a woman's first right ?
Do you not ken I would blithely ware my
heart's blood on Willie, if that would save a
hah* of his head ? For anything further I'll do
well enough  have no fear for me. You'll notice
I do not promise to pay back the note, though

you ken I will, if I live. At the same time,
both you and I are well aware that I owe you
a debt neither silver nor gold can discharge,
which, unless my prayers on my knees night and
morning can make good, I must carry on my
conscience to my dying day.'

lie could do nothing more with her than
draw from her with difficulty her present
address and let her go.

That day in the celebrated Murdoch case,
though Harry Balfour gave it scrupulous attention,
and made the notes which anticipated his
summing up with his usual astuteness, there was
an absence of the natural heartiness and humour
which distinguished the man quite as much
as his legal ability. There was a burden on
Harry's mind which he could not shake off,
though he was not at liberty to let his thoughts
stray. He .was fond of his profession, loved
the grand old Parliament House, had no end of
sallies and satellites within its bounds, and was

in the habit of playing his part in the centre
of the strong currents of human feeling and
dramatic interest which circulated there, manfully,
with a zest which never palled. Truth to
tell, the Parliament House was more like home
to Harry than his own house had ever been,
tender as the strong man's heart was. But this
day he was fain to get away from the manifold
claims of the national law court, and to withdraw
with his pained heart and troubled mind to
the refuge of his own house in the High Street.
If the grace of peace was not to be found
at Harry's board, it had few other graces. The
dining-room of the old Edinburgh lawyer was
grim enough, with its items of sombre family
pictures destitute of artistic merit, homely drugget
under foot, straight-backed chairs, black
with age but not rendered easy by use, ranged in
unbroken lines, and a sideboard like a huge
coffin or fiddle-case raised on four slender legs.
The very table, covered with table-linen from

the late Mrs. Balfour's ' providing ' remarkable
rather for strength than fineness, bore ampler
testimony to Miss Kirsten's renowned regard for
economy than to any luxurious hankering or
foreshadowing of aesthetics which might have
strayed as far as the Northern Capital. The
soup plates were of common white earthenware,
the scanty array of glasses were of thick coarse
crystal, and the family plate was so dim and
battered because of the very respect with which
it was treated, which forbade all dangerous
burnishing and repairing, that it might have
been pewter for any lustre it lent to the meal
on which it bestowed its disfigured countenance.
Miss Kirsten sat at the head of the table
opposite her father. Mr. Hendrie and Mrs.
Weir confronted each other at the two sides ;
while the dessert of wizened apples, wooden-like
pears, and mouldy nuts would bring with it
Mrs. Weir's two lanky, lantern-jawed boys and
her one pale-faced, light-eyed little girl.

But first the barley broth and the neck of
mutton, the pair of mature hens instead of spring
chickens, and the haddocks which appeared then
at the same stage of the banquet, were eaten in
what Harry soon became guiltily conscious was
ominous silence. He roused himself from his
reverie, fidgeted, and addressed himself with
laborious  absolutely painful  solicitude to
please each member of his family in turn.

He tried Miss Kirsten, a gaunt woman
sitting very upright in her scoured silk gown,
brown gauze turban, and mittens, on the
intrinsic qualities and the price of fish, and
whether the fowls before him had come from
his own farm and patrimonial inheritance of
Hammer Law, or had grown to middle age in
some more prosaic locality.

He mildly assailed Mr. Hendrie, a stiff superannuated
young man whose hair, now that
powder was going out of fashion, was brushed
into atop and had by nature the ashen-coloured

VOL. II. D

tint which looks grey to a casual observer,
while his green coat, ruffles, and pumps were
finically correct. The judge sought to draw
from the advocate an opinion on the course of
the Murdoch plea, the further hearing of which
had been adjourned till the following day.
Mr. Hendrie's reputation for profound wisdom
by no means equalled his dogmatism of tone,
and he had a small practice for an advocate
in spite of his father's popularity, so that
his views were hardly worth the trouble of
extracting, unless as a mark of paternal
regard.

Lord Balfour asked Mrs. Weir what her
children had been about. Mrs. Weir was a
peevish edition of Miss Kirsten in the formidable
old widow's weeds which encased the head ina
lawn helmet, and the arms to the elbows in
armlets of broad-hemmed cambric ' weepers.'

The judge's efforts, though he was popularly
held to be a man of fine conversational powers,

proved all in vain on this occasion. He only
received in return a succession of monosyllables,
dry from Miss Kirsten, slightly supercilious from
Mr. Hendrie  though to do him justice he intended
no direct disrespect to his father  and
reproachfully lugubrious from Mrs. Weir.

Harry suspected what had come to pass,
that Mrs. Hyn chord's early visit to him had got
wind in the household. He saw that his family
were arrayed in strong opposition to him, and
he knew what was impending over his devoted
head the moment Ritchie the butler's back was
turned. For much as Miss Kirsten and the
others approved of Ritchie's solemn decorum,
they were by no means inclined to trust him with
family grievances, as Harry took Gillie into
his confidence.

There was a curious half-humiliating vein
of poltroonery  shall we call it ?  in stout
old Harry Balfour where his children were
concerned, though he was dubbed * the Scotch

D 2

Lion '  he roared so patriotically on occasions,
and was a bold reformer of abuses, an unflinching
maintainer of the right as he saw it.
He not only quailed at these people's implied displeasure,
he caught at any idle chance which
should defer the evil hour of explanation. He
called little Isobel Weir on her introduction by
her nurse to stand by his knee while he sipped his
claret. He had suffered much disappointment,
both unconfessed and confessed, in children.
He was aware at the bottom of his heart that
his own children had no sympathy with him,
while he was always telling himself that he was
well off in Hendrie, who, though he might not
be a Solomon, yet carried an old man's head on
a young man's shoulders, and had never got
into a foolish scrape in his life  which was
more than his father could say  and in Kirsten
and Isobel, who were douce lasses. Isobel,
poor thing, could not help losing her feckless
icau  there had been no ill in him, though

there had been as little good and coming
back to murmur over her hard lot and ' bicker '
in an uncomfortable way with Kirsten and
Hendrie for her and her bairns' share of their
father's hearth. That was all in the natural order
of things. It had not been quite so much a
matter of course that Harry should endure
another and perhaps a still more cutting disappointment
in an adopted child who had been his
ward and cherished darling for a time. Yet
Harry Balfour remained fond of children. He
wished now to take this fatherless little lass to
him. He called her his Bonniebell. He proposed
to tell her his very best child's story of
a brownie and a fairy, while he cut her apple
for her into the representation of a bishop's
mitre.

But little Isobel Weir pulled herself fretfully
away from the encircling arm of her grandfather.
She complained in an aggrieved tone
that he ' tossed ' her hair. She asserted that

her right name was Isobel, and she did not like
to be called by any other. She announced that
she did not care for a story which was not true,
since there were no such creatures as brownies
and fairies  Uncle Hendrie said so. Finally,
she objected that her grandfather was wasting
her apple, which was for eating not for carving
on, as Aunt Kirsten would tell him.

Repulsed and set at naught even by this
baby, Harry shrank into his shell, and awaited
the onslaught without laying hold of any' other
straw to avert the catastrophe.

Miss Kirsten led the charge with an indignant
wave of her listened bony hand . ' Can it
be possible, father, that Ailsie Hyndford has had
the face to come to you again with her stories ? '
she demanded.

Whom should she come to if not to me,
Kirsty? ' counter-questioned the judge, lawyerlike
rising to the encounter when the worst
had come, and putting a bold face on the

interview of the morning. ' I'm all the father
she has ever known ; the worse for her, poor
woman.'

6 And little respect she paid yon in the light
of a father,' Miss Kirsten reminded him with
acrimony, 'when yon sought to hinder her
from throwing herself and her tocher away on
a debauchee and profligate like her bonnie
cousin Willie Hyndford. It was " stop me who
dare " then with my lady. She and her gay
wooer snapped their fingers at your authority
and laughed in your face.'

6 Indeed, sir,' said Mr. Hendrie with slow
pedantry, ' I have been led to apprehend that
these Hyndfords deserve little favour at your
hands. Yon must be aware that they have
already cost yon much more than her miserable
trifle of a tocher which she snatched out of
your hands when you would have held it back
and tied it up for her protection. I understand
he was in the habit of making a jeer over

his cups at the way they had got the better of
you and put you to expense. But I believe
that did not prevent her from coming to you
to take him out of the sanctuary of the Abbey,
or get him out of devours' quarters elsewhere,
more than once on his road to the dogs. There
is even a whisper you stopped the arrest of his
body when it was on its last journey to the
Hynclford vault in Mniravon Kirk. For the
hamlin, his son, I have it on the best authority
there is not such another black sheep in the
three wards of Lancashire. So, sir, do not
say that you have not been warned before you
resume your connection with such promising
proteges] ended Mr. Hendrie, wiping his fingers
daintily with his napkin, as if he symbolically
cleared himself of all responsibility in the matter.
Oh ! father, will you allow such an
ungrateful, worthless, godless crew to get
round you and rob you, when your own flesh
and blood are lawful claimants on your care

and need all yon have to spare ? ' cried Mrs.
Weir in her widow's helmet, making common
cause with her brother and sister, and at the
same time turning fiery, greedy glances from
her children to her father.

It is all true,' granted Harry, doggedly
and sadly. 'Poor Ailsie was a headstrong
lass. The men folk of the Hyndfords have
been a bad lot. But we are none of us without
stain or spot, and I should have thought Ailsie,
at least, who was only thoughtless and lighthearted,
and who has suffered so much  my
God ! what that lass must have suffered to
change her as she is changed  might have met
with some mercy at your hands  ay,' protested
the judge, carried away by his tender sympathy
till he plucked up spirit and brought down his
clenched fist with indignant force on the table,
i at yours, Kirsten, who were her old playmate
and companion  at yours, Hendrie, who are a
young man in your prime  are you not black

affronted, man, to match your untried strength
against the weakness of a broken-down woman
a forlorn widow, an unhappy mother ?  at
yours, Tsobel, who are a widow and a mother
yourself, and cannot foretell what is in store for
you through your ain bairns. I think it would
better become the whole three of you  in my
poor judgment, it would be nearer what is right
and kind  if you would show more consideration
and feeling for Ailsie, if you would even
so so far as to bid her here.'

Bid Ailsie Hyndford back here ! after she
ran away from the shelter of your roof and
cast scorn upon it, when she was a light-headed,
proud madam, holding us all as dirt beneath
her feet  after she stood by her blackguard of
a man in mocking at law and order, and wasting
their substance till she has come to the want
and misery-that are the fit portion of the waster
and the fool  never ! father, so long as I sit at
the head of your table and might be asked to

bear her company,' vowed Miss Kirsten with a
determination which could not be doubted ; ' no,
though you should break every glass on the
table-head instead of only making them dirt
with your violence. As she has brewed, so she
must drink. What law have you for any other
end?'

I give up the law on the point in dispute,
but I think I might say something for the
gospel in this case,' muttered Harry.

Really, sir,' remonstrated Mr. Hendrie, but
not otherwise than coolly, as at a proposal
which could not possibly take effect, 4 if you
mean to cumber yourself with such queer
cattle, I do think it is time some of us were
setting up a separate establishment.'

Father,' Mrs. Weir panted under the injury
she had sustained, c would you even me and my
dead man and my innocent bairns to Ailsie
Hyndford and her set of raffles ? Did I disobey
or defy you when I wedded with Sandy

Weir?  you gave me your consent and blessing.
And there was never a word heard against my
man. If his elder brother had not married,
and his uncle, who was to have come from the
Indies with a fortune, had not bidden still and
spent it there, we need have been beholden to
nobody, we would have stood in no man or
woman's way,' glancing askance at Miss Kirsten
and Mr. Hendrie, who were too much concerned
with their new grievance to pay any
heed to her reference, c we should have been
in our comfortable down sitting, living on our
own abundant means. Could I help these misfortunes?
And a fell-like way Ailsie Hyndford
must have reared her only bairn  her that
pretended to be so clever.' mocked Mrs. Weir
in a tone of triumph, ' that he should be a byword
for everything that is evil before he is out
of his teens. A fine example the word of him
would be to my well-conducted lads ? '

'Well, well, have it your own way,' said

Lord Balfour, pushing back his chair and rising
from the table, half in anger and sorrow, half
overborne by their clamour. He did not go,
however, without firing a parting shot at his
tyrants. ' 'Deed, though you were all agreed,
and every one of you were to hold out a helping
hand to poor Ailsie, I do not know that
she would take it.'

CHAPTEE III.

A LORD OF Less A CLIENT IN HIS TURN.

Ix the spring gloaming Lord Balfour was walking
along that wonderful High Street of old
Edinburgh, with its tall ; lands ' or blocks of
building in which many a family of good
position lodged  Paris fashion  on the different
stages, from which innumerable lights were
twinkling row upon row ; with its low lucien
for huckstering trade, and its grey
Castle on the rock, like the lion couchant of
Arthur's seat, keeping watch and ward over
the ancient capital.

The Judge was threading his way through
the crowd of working people in hodden grey

and linsey-woolsey, blue bonnets and white
matches ; of ladies and gentlemen in hoops and
hoods, long-skirted coats and cocked hats ; of
lawyers' clerks, who were not in the habit of
wielding any weapon more formidable than a
pen ; and of old Highlanders of the City Guard,
who still shouldered warlike Lochaber axes.

Harry Balfour's was a well-known figure
among the motley groups, and one liable to be
detained and beset by suitors ; but he pressed
on with such an evident disinclination to be
interrupted that his rare self-absorption was
respected.

Harry was bound for Mrs. Hyndford's
lodgings in order to ascertain for himself her
manner of living. He would not entrust his
errand to another, neither could he have borne
to be the means of exposing her straits. He
found the address she had given him, which was
in one of the many narrow closes that intersected
the street and contained houses swarming

with inhabitants of various classes  for the most
part humbler than the residents in the main
street. Mrs. Hyndforcl was not on the ground
floor, where a shopkeeper combined his ' meal
and barley shop ' with his family mansion ; nor
on the second floor, where a manttiamaker with
her assistants had her place of business ; nor on
the third floor, where a caddy, whose sedan
chair cumbered the entrance, kept house with
his wife and afforded bed and board to the
mantua maker s humbler apprentices. There
was no more than a fourth storey, which
dwindled into garrets, and these, Harry was
told when he was half-way up the steep dark stair,
were occupied by a washerwoman and clear-searcher.
He was on the point of retracing his
steps and having recourse with a sinking heart
to ' the laugh house,' the cellar-like region below
the street, when the tones of a familiar
voice caught his ear, and he persevered in his
ascent. The upper landing was dark like the

stair, but the room door at which Mrs. Hyndford
had just been holding colloquy with her landlady
and neighbour remained ajar. And there
within was Ailsie Hyndford  in the bare ' coom-ceiling
' room, scantily furnished with the
simplest necessaries of the poor ; a homely bed,
a common deal table and chairs, an auntie
with the few plates, bowls, and cooking utensils
which were required, and an ordinary spinning-wheel
and reel by the fire, that, blinking on the
Whitewashed 6 cheeks ' to its iron fore-face,
presented the single cheerful object in the room.
She was conspicuous at the first glance, for she
stood between the new comer and the high
small window, taking advantage of what sunset
light flooded it to darn to the last moment the
lace in her hand. She did not recognise an old
friend's step, and was too well accustomed to
the men and women in the house passing up
and down the stair to be startled by the sound,
while the deep shadow in which Lord Balfour

YOL. II. E

lingered prevented her from distinguishing that
he was a visitor of her own class.

He had time to observe her deliberately as
she remained there  motionless save for her
busy fingers  in her shabby black gown, with
her high widow's cap, like that of his daughter,
towering above her early-silvered hair and
worn face. She was handling with care and
skill and a gentle-woman's appreciation of its
cobweb texture, such an heirloom as she had
been wont to wear on her own dainty young
matron's head when she had first presided as Mrs.
Hyndford in her husband's house of the Leas.

As Harry Balfour looked his eyes grew
dazzled, and it was not the Ailsie Hyndford, the
poor forlorn widow, the last of a spendthrift
house, earning her bread as she best might,
whom he saw. It was the old Ailsie Hyndford,
child and girl, in very different circumstances.
Here was the bonnie orphan bairns with her
thick-coming droll fancies, who beguiled the

hardest disciplinarian into making a pet of her.
And here was the lovely, witty lass, the belle of
old Edinburgh  two scenes in whose life were
specially present to the memory of her former
guardian at this moment.

The one had occurred on the night of a
Hogmanay  that chief of ' the daft days ' which
sour, dour Scotchmen included in their calendar
when half of the young sparks who had met
at the Cross to drink in the New Year rushed
headlong to the very house in the High Street
still occupied by Harry Balfour, each fired with
the individual ambition of being the first-foot
to greet bonnie Ailsie Hyndford in the dawning
of the glad New Year. There had been
such an uproar, in addition to the alarming
prospects of a succession of single combats with
walking rapiers, beneath the lawyer's window
that some of the City Guard had come up, and
he himself had looked out and threatened to
read the Riot Act in his nightcap. But the

E 2

turmoil had been instantaneously appeased, and
all the young fools had gone away content, after
Ailsie Hyndford had appeared at her window
and announced that each man was her first-foot,
and she would dance with every one of
them in turn before the year was out.

The other incident happened when Ailsie
had been going in the Balfour' coach to the
Assembly Booms, and the party had been met
at the door by the English officers of a regiment
then quartered in the Castle. To be sure,
they had allowed Harry and his wife to pass
with the usual greetings, but when Ailsie came
forward  and she happened to be the sole young
lady with them, since Kirsten had been laid up
with the mumps and Mrs. Balfour did not care
to take the trouble of bringing out strange
young ladies  the fellows sprang forward, drew
their swords and crossed them above Ailsie's
head, forming a glittering, perilous arch for her
to walk under, just as some of the London fine

gentlemen had made good the entrance of a
less innocent queen of hearts into one of
their Southern ballrooms. Ailsie held up her
head, and stepped forward without blinking or
cowering, as most lasses would have done, at
the flash and clash of cold steel. Why, they
said every gentleman in the regiment, from the
portly colonel to the slimmest lieutenant, was
at her feet, and there was like to be a mutiny
in the King's service on her account ; and she
was so much in request at this very assembly
that she alone had danced in two of the sets
arranged for specially distinguished dancers. She
had figured with great credit in the ' Beauty
set ' along with the young ladies of the
Eglintoun and Balcarres families, renowned for
their personal charms, and she had been invited
to stand up in the ' Heartsome set,' with no
less wags than Mistress Cockburn 1 and Stair's
daughter, as a rare tribute in the case of one

1 Alison Cockburn's Letters.

so young to a blithe tongue. He had been
proud of his charge that night. Was this the
end  a prematurely aged widow mending lace
for her bread by the fading light in a garret in
Horn Close ?

Lord Balfour could bear the contrast no
longer, and to dismiss the images in his mind
he crossed the threshold and disturbed Mrs.
Hyndford by a hasty ' Good evening to you,
Ailsie.'

She started, but she showed herself ready to
welcome him without false shame, while she
was equally prompt to stand on the defensive.
It w T as as if she felt bound to mark the gulf
which fortune and her own deed had placed
between them, and to maintain her perfect right
to preserve all that was left of her independence
in refusing to be drawn from her own side of
the gulf by anything he could say or do.

Good evening, Lord Balfour  I would say
it is kind of you to seek me out and I am glad

to see you if this were a fitter place for your
presence,' she said frankly. ' However, as you
are here, come in and take a seat by the fire ;
the evenings are cold yet, and you were wont
to feel chilly after your long days in the House
contending with glib advocates and camsteery
witnesses over these weary law papers,' she
ended with an irrepressible smile, as she drew
forward a chair for him.

He allowed her to do it, wondering vaguely
how long it was since anybody save Gillie had
remembered that he was apt to be chilly of an
evening, and speculating in a dim fashion why
it was that, though his chair always stood
vacant for him, no kind voice ever invited him
to fill it.

You'll not mind that the seat is hard,' she
apologised, but without any abatement of resolute
cheerfulness in confessing the incontestable
defect. ' I'm doubtful there are few seats
for us auld folk to sit down upon that are not

hard, let them be furnished with ever so many
cushions, so that it comes to much the same
thing in the end,' she finished with a half-defiant,
half-dreamy philosophy.

Ailsie Hyndford classing herself with him as
us auld folk,' how odd it sounded !

And you'll excuse me,' she continued
briskly, ' for not remaining idle while we talk,
since my time is all my fortune now. When
it comes to that we can have our crack every
bit as comfortably while I spin.'

She sat down on a stool behind the wheel,
and prepared to draw out the thread and turn
the wheel, as lie had seen his mother and still
more frequently the female servants of the
house, or farmers' wives and daughters and
peasant women, spin by the hearth in winter
and at the house door in summer.

But her. next words were hardly consistent
with her action. ' Is it worth it all, my lord? '
she asked suddenly. 'I mean; is what we are

able to enjoy in life worth the burdens we have
to bear from the cradle to the grave ? '

One greater than I has answered that
question, Ailsie,' he said gently, ' though
Solomon may seem to contradict Him whiles.
But, woman,' he broke off hotly, c what call is
there for you to live like this in a garret, toiling
for your bit and sup and widow's duds, when
I have a long enough purse to meet all your
wants, as well as my family's demands  twice
over ? '

Because I am not really one of your family
because you have already loaded me and
mine with benefits that are crushing me to the
earth,' she answered at once, turning her wheel.

Do not say that,' he forbade her ; ' have
you not more trust in me than such words
imply P ' he asked reproachfully.

6 Trust ! ' she exclaimed ; ' I have trusted you
with all I hold dear. I have gone to you again
and again in the face of the wrongs you have

suffered from me and mine, as sinners only-dare
approach their Maker. But just because
I honour you before all men, Harry Balfour, I
crave of you to spare me some smallest crumb
of self-respect.'

But how can I suffer it ? ' he pleaded. ' How
can I live at ease, and know that you who were
brought up in my house are faring like this ? *

You do not live at ease ; you have your
own troubles, poor man,' she said softly, turning
the tables upon him unexpectedly, and
looking up at him with a great pity for the
shortcomings of his life, that had a singular
effect in their relative circumstances, shining out
of those dark eyes. ' And it is good for me that
I should bear the yoke in my age ; it takes me
out of myself and keeps my heart from breaking,
to spin like this '  and she recommenced
her spinning  ' and to ken weel all the time that
if I stopped for an hour I should owe my next
meal to could charity. Do you not know by

your own experience, my lord, that we have
only the choice left us either to spin wool and
yarn and these havering law papers of yours,
or else the torn fibres of our own bleeding
hearts ? '

Ay, ay,' he assented with a groan ; ' I have
no quarrel with work for its own sake, either
for you or me or any man or woman born. I
hold it to be the true elixir vice. But you
might find fitter work, Ailsie my bairn,' he
finished tenderly.

'Out! ' she objected, with a slight toss of
the head that had been an old habit of hers,
which survived among its present surroundings
like a child's laugh in the middle of a
penitential psalm or a requiem. ' What ails you
at my lace-mending or my spinning ? I will not
have you cast faith at them. They are honest
work, which is more than can be said of all the
practices of your trade of the law, Lord
Balfour. My room is weather tight and clean.

The folk in the house are decent bodies. They
4o not plague me  na, they look upon me as
one of the many eddies in trouble, and who so
respectful and kind to them as the real poor ?
Forby they keep me in work. Jenny Haddo
allows me the mending of ail the laces she gets
to wash, and Miss Nanny Fernie's brother is a
master weaver, and takes my hanks of yarn off
my hands. But I have so much consideration
for yon, sips that I would have gone away out of
your ken, and out of sight and sound of my
auld set, only I feared I should starve in the
country, while I hoped I was as well hidden
from all my former acquaintances in one of
the closes here as if I had been buried alive
among the peat hags of Lancashire.'

6 1 was never your match in words, Ailsie,
lawyer and judge though I be, but it goes against
the grain with me that you should win this
battle,' said Harry, in extreme perplexity how
to bend her high spirit. ; Is there no way of

escape? Woman, I would rather marry you
out of hand myself.'

The words slipped from him inadvertently
in rueful jest as the one absurd solution of the
difficulty which presented itself to his mind.

She received the suggestion with an answering
jest. ' And do you think I would let you,
my lord ? -' she cried gaily.

'And, by my word, do you think you
could hinder me, Ailsie ? ' he cried again, and
then he stopped short, for be was no longer in idle
jest but in dead earnest. Her speech had been
like flint striking steel, causing fire to flash from
the encounter. An inspiration had come to him,
and all the passion of his nature leapt up to meet
it. Why should he not marry Ailsie Hyndford ?
He was all the man he had ever been, and she
had been his darling from her childhood. Both
the Willie Hand fords had forfeited all claim on
her allegiance, though the memory of her first
love, and the widowed wife and mother's tenderness

might throw a mantle of charity over the
sins alike of the dead and the living. In God's
name, why should he not marry Ailsie
Hyndford ? There was no law, human or
divine, against the marriage. Why should he
not repair her wrongs, rescue her from drudgery
and poverty, and make her the mistress of his
house as she was mistress of his heart ? Why
should he not restore her to her old queenship
in Edinburgh society, and take a manly pride
in her womanly triumphs, while his own life in
its latter end should be better than in its
beginning? For his days would undergo a
marvellous transformation, and an isolated
weather-beaten stem might yet bud and blossom
into a goodliness and glory of foliage and
flowers sufficient to make him young again.

It was true that Ailsie Hyndford in point
of years could have been his daughter. But a
woman of her age was no longer young  witness
Listen, who was really and truly his daughter,

and yet she often struck him as fit to be his
grandmother. Ailsie, poor lamb, was old in
care and sorrow  care and sorrow which he
could console and convert into peace and gladness.


She said she would not let him, but who
was she or any other woman to resist him when
he had the. mind ? Though Harry Balfour had
married when a lad to please his father and
mother, and in doing so had gone far to
forfeit his natural birthright, continuing ever
afterwards a man of little account in his family
circle, he remained conscious in the middle of
his weakness that there was mettle in him which,
if he chose to exert it, few men and still
fewer women could gainsay.

Mrs. Hyndford had looked up startled by the
changed tone of his voice, which her sensitive
ear caught in its first vibration. Her eyes fell
before his intent gaze. She read as in an open
book the illumination that had flashed across

his mind, his sudden, fixed design, and the
tumult of half-awakened power and joy it had
aroused in him.

There was an answering ferment in her own
heart. She too had one of those natures
which, however cruelly tried, retain to the
last inexhaustible springs of youth and hope.
She had said to him that she honoured him
before all men. And it was true he was the
best and greatest man she had ever known,
though it had only been by her close contact
with characters the reverse of his that she had
learnt to comprehend the height and depth of
his virtue and power.

Could she remain indifferent to the fact that
such a man had conceived the desire to make her
his wife  a desire which might have arisen in
pity but was confirmed in love? For aged,
broken, and sunk as she felt herself, she recognised
at a glance that she was still fair in this
man's eyes.

And the knowledge worked a miracle in
recalling for a moment some part of Ailsie
Hyndford's charms that had fled. Under his
gaze and the thoughts which she knew were
in his mind, her faded face bloomed again.
Much of that nameless mobile grace which
such women inherit as a potent gift, and rarely
lose entirely until they lie senseless and stark
in their coffins, came back to her air and her
movements  to the lines of her face, the bend
of her neck, the turn of her arm  as she satin
her shabby weeds of uncouth fashion spinning
by a working woman's hearth.

But was it for Ailsie Hyndforcl to accept
Harry Balfour's homage, and thus pay back the
debt she had declared never could be discharged
which had been incurred in all he had done
for her and hers, and, what was a still heavier
obligation, all he had borne from them ? Was
she to reward this last most generous, uncalculating
love by giving him the dregs of her life

VOL. II. *F

and the degradation which her husband and
child had brought on her and their name ?

Ah ! but she could give him something else
something very different. Ailsie Hyndford
had kept also, through all the failure of her
past, and her grief and shame for her share in
that failure, an abiding sense of the inalienable
inheritance she possessed, of what she might
have been at her best and in favourable circumstances,
of what she might still be  God helping
her  to one she loved. She had fathomed
wearily in former days the narrow, dull, intolerably
self-satisfied natures of the children
who had become dictators and tyrants to Harry
Balfour. Her early association with them had
something to do with her youthful rebellion.
She could not altogether ism ore her own contrasted
qualities, the wealth, warmth, and
brightness above all, the honest humility  of
her heart and brain. She knew that even as a
child with him she had been able to win the

head of the house from his weighty concerns,
to divert and delight him. And if she were
with him as a woman with the man she held
in highest reverence and deepest love, as a true
wife with her husband she might still be what
Heaven had meant her to be, the sun of her
husband's home firmament, the well in his
garden, his chief earthly light and refreshment,
his crown of human glory and gladness, with a
price far above rubies. And oh ! the exchange
in having for a husband, instead of the reckless
prodigal Willie Hyndford, Harry Balfour, the
just judge, the upright and loyal gentleman  the
hardest man to himself, the softest to the weak,
to women and to bairns.

Ailsie Hyndford had always been furious at
the disparaging treatment which Harry Balfour
received from his household. Were she in their
place to teach them a lesson, would she not
worship the very ground he trod on, and lay

p2

the hair of her head under his feet, if that could
get him the least pleasure ?

In the wild whirl of contending emotion
Ailsie Hyndford span the faster, filling the
whole of the little room with the agitated hum
of the wheel and threatening every moment to
snap her thread, while Harry Balfour had risen
and stood opposite her, his tall figure leaning
against the wall, a grand presence in the
homely interior.

At last he cried, ' Have you no word forme,
Ailsie?' And it was an eager lover's
reproach rather than an old friend's complaint.
Neither did he go on to explain himself further
with regard to the great change which had
come over him, for her breathless silence
proved to him that she had distinguished not
only between jest and earnest, but between
friendship and love.

Oh, my lord, you are mad to make such a
proposal,' she said, dropping her thread from

trembling fingers which could no longer hold
it, ' and I am mad to listen to you.'

But he had her hands in his, and her head
was on his breast, for he comprehended that
both silence and protest meant nothing.

My lord, my lord, what will Kirsten and
Hendrie say ? ' she remonstrated again  not
without a suspicion of the archness and love of
mischief engrained in her nature, deep down
beneath the dire results of time and trial. She
had not danced in the days of her youth in the
Heartsome set at the Assembly Rooms for
nothing.

He swerved a little aside at the words, while
a mixture of dismay  half pathetic, half ludicrous
 entered into his joy and triumph. It
was another evidence of the singular despotism
which common-plainness and meanness sometimes
exercise over genius and generosity. But
he rallied the next moment, grasping her hand.
4 Let them say what they will, never you heed

them, Ailsie, my bonnie woman ; am I not
master in my own house ? Are my own bairns
to question my lawful authority ? They had
better ca' canny. If they speak a word against
you, my love, they shall answer for it to me ina
manner they little dream of.'

In the emergency even Harry Balfour was
tempted to bluster. He was valiant behind
the back of the enemy.

But there was a lurking acknowledgment
of his deadly weakness in his next speech:
If you will but stand by me, Ailsie,' he
besought her wistfully, 'we'll beat the whole
world.'

And at these words Ailsie Hyndford's quick
intuition penetrated in the fullest sense the
truth that in complying with the dearest wish
of this man's soul she would not merely bless
him and bless herself in so doing, but that,
while she filled up the aching void which it
pained and mortified her to know had always

existed in his life, she would likewise free her
best friend from a dreary incubus and degrading
bondage. It was not to his honour that
they had been suffered to exist and grow till
they crippled his greatness in the present,
and were in danger of crushing it in the
future.

In the - almost fierce resentment which the
last consideration kindled L in Ailsie Hyndford,
she pledged herself willingly to her former
guardian, she even felt a species of wrathful
delight in the contemplated circumvention of
the certain opposition to their marriage. She
was no weak girl to be put down by those
persons who had no right to control her actions,
who were bound to defer to Harry Balfour's
lightest wish. She became strong to bear any
indignity for his sake. She was his champion
and defender, as he was hers. And it belonged
to the temper of this woman not only to weep
with keenest gratitude over the new boon of

finding herself protected, but to crave to be a
protector in her turn, and to fight like a lioness
for the creature she defended. She must serve
Harry Balfour thenceforth as a strong tower
against his treacherous faintness of heart, a bulwark
that should never fail him between him
and his household foes.

CHAPTEE IV.

THE TRAVELLERS BY AN OLD EDINBURGH AND
LONDON COACH.

The old Edinburgh and London coach, which
had originally started on its periodical journeys
between the capitals once a fortnight, had become
multiplied into coaches which ran twice
a week, encountering and hailing each other as
they passed on the road. Not only were the
travellers who availed themselves of the public
conveyances, and who accomplished in safety
the days and night of peril by flood and field,
exposure to hardship and general bone-shaking,
which could only have a charm for the young
because associated with the delights of change

and motion, fully entitled to respect from their
fellow-townsmen as men and women who had
successfully surmounted an arduous adventure
and attained a valuable experience ; they had
the reward of finding themselves on the occasions
of their departure and return objects of
interest and curiosity to their entire world.
These gallant travellers were the important if
somewhat oppressed custodians of much treasure
in the form of bandboxes and letters which
could by no means be entrusted to the common
post and the ordinary carrier. And when the
stout-hearted gentlemen and ladies came back
if they did come back  they brought with
them, in addition to return treasure, news of
the wonders and enormities of the great world
beyond the Tweed ; tidings of the doings of the
Court, which had not graced Scotland with its
presence since the needs of the Charles's recalled
them as suppliants to the mother-country,
for which they had no filial feeling ; of the state

of affairs on 'Change ; of the prospects of authors
in Grub Street ; of the freaks of fashion in Soho.
Nay, there was another and a sensational
element in the excitement which the travellers
evoked. It was well known they were not
always the honest men and women they professed
to be. Mufflers were useful for other
purposes than keeping out the cold. Highwaymen
were not confined to their native heaths.
Stories were afloat of these true gentlemen of
the road figuring in disguise among their unsuspecting
fellow-travellers, who carried in all unconsciousness
their bane in their midst, as the
unlucky miller bore off his brownie in the centre
of his household gods. No wonder that prospective
travellers and their friends read anxiously
the names inscribed in the coach-books, and, if
the titles were unfamiliar, peered doubtfully into
the faces of the owners of the names as they
gathered at the place of meeting. But of course
to the mere spectator there was an additional

zest contributed to the spectacle by the bare
idea of a Dick Turpin swaggering about the
coach-stand, with the terrible consequences
which must follow. These were as follows :

A shrill whistle would issue suddenly from
the body of the coach, or from the box or the
back seat as it suited the whistler's convenience,
just when the travellers were on the edge of a
lonely moor or in the dip of a particularly dark
hollow through which the road ran. Before
the performer could be detected and overpowered,
a band of desperate fellows wearing
masks or crape over their faces, and brandishing
horse pistols, would rush from nowhere.
Their appearance would prove the signal for
loud cries of ' Stand and deliver,' the rearing
of horses, the screaming of men, with the
crack of a stray pistol-shot, and the flash of a
misdirected rapier, as an excuse for the hubbub.
At last the coach would drive on, considerably
the lighter by the loss of the greater part of

luggage, the mail-bags, and the purses of the
more timorous of the travellers. And the
merry music of the horn, when next they approached
a town, would be seriously impaired
by the smothered groans of a man or two who
had sustained flesh wounds, or the long-drawn
sobs of a woman who was still in hysterics.
But the injuries might not be mortal, and with
what an agreeable sense of having figured as
heroes and heroines at least once in their lives
the story would be told by the survivors ! How
long it would last them ! How often it would
be brought out and aired at friendly festivals,
family gatherings, New Year celebrations, till
it descended, with the embellishment of sundry
flourishes and variations, to remote generations,
as ' our great-grandfather's or great-grandcourt's
romantic adventure with footpads.' Ah !
the old coach journeys, with their fatigues and
perils had also their compensation.

Taking everything into consideration, the

departure and the arrival of the Edinburgh and
London coaches were among the great events
of the Edinburgh day at that date. And, as if
to suit the public convenience in this as in other
respects, the coaches started and returned
alternately morning and evening. That house
was favoured in its prospect the windows of
which, like those of Lord Balfour's house,
looked out on the High Street, commanding a
near view of the bustle of the coach-stand.
The fortunate tenants had unfailing topics of
conversation both at breakfast and supper in
what travellers had come and gone with the
coach, and what last word it had brought from
London and York. Even Miss Kirsten was
understood to unbend and to abandon the task
in hand  the dusting out of the drawing-room,
the assorting of the housekeeping stores, the
washing up of her mother's tea china  in order
to stand at her particular window and watch in
the morning or evening dusk the little drama

that was played before her eyes, and which had
this advantage over any act on the stage
proper, that here was real life, and Miss Kirsten
had often a personal acquaintance with the
actors.

As for Mr. Hendrie, he made it his regular
business to pick his steps across the dirty street
twice a day that he might be at the crisis of
the event. He affected to despise gossip, but
took a secret pride in being the first to hear the
news, which he was prepared to dispense in the
character of a half-contemptuous oracle. And
it was a matter of moment to him that he
should not be an hour behind in reading the
last report of the last English opera, the last
account of the last meeting of an antiquarian
society  any more than in the last mode in shoe
buckles or queues. For Mr. Hendrie was a
frequenter of the musical society which had
Lord Kelly for its head, and aspired to be as
much of a virtuoso as of a fop.

On a mild April evening in the year of
grace 17  , the Highflyer, Edinburgh and London
coach, was about to start as usual from
what served as its office in the High Street.
There were the groups of punctual travellers in
old-fashioned wrap-rascals and comforters,
pelisses and riding-habits  though no lady was
going to mount on horseback  beavers and
capuchins ; with the loyal convoys of friends
who came without fail to see the travellers off 
as the next-of-kin of emigrants now escort
them on board ship  pacing the street, watching
the packing of the coach, and criticising
each horse as it was led out. Idle onlookers in
yet larger numbers sauntered or stood with both
hands in their pockets if the gazers were men,
and one hand in a pocket, or the two clasped
in a satin and laced muff, if they were women.
And still more people filled the mouths of
the adjacent closes, or sat and stood at the
various windows which took in the show.

For these were the days when windows
were in great request  not only for light within
the house, but for inspection of the world
without, with express reference to a man or a
woman's next neighbour. So far from feeling
any modern shame with regard to looking out
of a window or being induced to hide in a
craven and hypocritical fashion behind a
jalousie, it did not then require a royal procession
to bring the occupants of the houses,
great and small, in a street to each window,
high or low, broad bow, or narrow slit which
gave on the thoroughfare. It was the good
folks' daily and hourly practice to take their
observations from their several coins of
vantage, and to spend many minutes, even
when the weather was severe, in what was
called ' lying over ' the open windows to see
farther up and down or round a corner that
the starers might the better pursue their lawful
vocation of public inspectors and qualified

VOL. II. #G

critics, quite as much as that they should calla
cordial ' good day,' or put a pertinent question
in a frank, unconstrained manner to their
acquaintances of all ranks passing below. To
walk up such a street as the High Street of
Edinburgh under the old regime was not simply
to find picturesque breadths of contrast in the
details of the street itself, but to run the
gauntlet of the multitude of eyes at the tier
upon tier of windows, and if a man were bold,
to return the sharp fire. Galleries of living
pictures in single figures, and family groups, in
whole and half lengths, of men, women, and
children, whose poor, inanimate representations
in oil on canvas are now carefully shut up in
kings' and rich men's collections as historical
art treasures, were freely offered then for the
inspection of the rude mechanic or peasant
lout with a kind of royal bounty. There were
fewer secrets in the life of the old world, withall
its gross offences. aesthetic have lost

something by the recent mania for seclusion,
and philanthropy is not without its deprivation
in wholesome individual influence and warm
personal sympathy. A leader in a newspaper
or a story in a book is not altogether a substitute
for the pithy expression of opinion on the
part of seers and believers, or the keen fellow-feeling
of the actual witnesses to a living drama.

Certainly no occurrence in old Edinburgh
was in a greater degree public property than
the departures and arrivals of the coaches.
And with every allowance for the exceptional
exigencies of highwaymen, one would have
thought no worse choice could have been made
by those who sought privacy for their proceedings
than to fix on one of the common vehicles
of transit for their operations.

The crowd of spectators on this April evening
found rather a limited company of travellers
on whom to bestow, their attention. There
were but four insides. The only man was a

glean

and thrifty gentleman from the Record
Office, wrapped in a thread-bare calimanco
cloak or rachel which might have been the
very old cloak that is commemorated in a
Scotch song ancient enough to have been quoted
by Gentle Will, or it might have been the stage
mantle of an artificial villain.

However, the man in the cloak was well
known in Edinburgh as a perfectly pacific, even
somewhat timid, elderly gentleman ; and it was
as clearly apprehended that he had been deputed
by his office to proceed to London to
consult with his Southern brethren on a longstanding
difficulty in the northern office.

There was an English beauty and heiress
who had been so foolish as to marry a poor
Scotch laird and had never forgotten her condescension.
She was about to journey South
in order to refresh her spirits by a lengthened
sojourn among her civilised and wealthy relations.


There was the homely, kindly, modest,
gude-wife of a well-to-do skipper, who was
venturing all the way to London in order
to catch a last glimpse of her brave man before
he sailed from that port on a two years'
voyage.

And there was a poor lady in rusty black
who came late and betrayed her friendlessness.
since she arrived unaccompanied by a single ally.

The outsiders were more numerous and
heterogeneous  ranging from the hardy husband
of the English lady, who might have had
his own reasons for considering the spring night
wind ' less unkind ' than the atmosphere which
surrounded his wife, and the clerk of the gentleman
from the Record Office, to raw young lads.
The last were going off to seek their fortunes and
to test the truth of a scornful English proverb
which declared that while it needed but a single
pair of shoes to bring a willing Sawney across
the Border to the land of wheat and fat cattle,

with perishing and dainties in store, at least
seven pairs were demanded to carry the same
feet creeping back to bear and black sheep, kail
and kilts.

The four privileged persons took their
places within the narrow bounds in which
they were to dwell in close proximity for a
period of time which can only be matched now
in a land journey by the days and nights an
American train takes to speed across the rolling
prairies and mountain ranges which lie between
Geoffry Hudson's city, hard by the Atlantic,
and the Golden Gate of the Pacific.

The laird's lady took as her undoubted
right the lion's share of the room for herself,
her roquelaire and caleche, and her minor trifles
of foot-stools and cushions, cordials and essences.
The Recorder, who was mannerly and somewhat
of a time-server to boot, devoted himself
a little rashly to her service, and cheerfully consented
to sit, hemmed in by her belongings, for

the hundreds of miles which intervened between
him and his destination. The sailor's wife annihilated
herself as far as it was possible in
her comfortable bulk, and withdrew with her
baskets of substantial provisions into the remotest
corner. But the poor lady in black betrayed
a remnant of the high spirit and imprudent
temper which had doubtless conduced to
her present forlorn condition, in declining to be
hustled out of her seat by a window. The
fine lady looked her opponent over with the
arrogant eyes which nature had given her, and
when that simple process of putting down an
inferior failed, had recourse to the more artificial
and imposing mode of levelling her quizzing
glass at the offender. For quizzing, which was
called by its right name a hundred years ago,
is by no means a nineteenth-century acquisition
of its present proficient. The young Lady
Pitteuchar's self-elected cavalier showed himself
shocked at the audacity of the unattended and

nameless gentlewoman  she had only written
herself in the coach-book 'a lady.' The
skipper's wife looked scared. Lady Pitteuchar
called her husband for the fifth time to the
coach door. ' Pitteuchar,' she said, in her
piping voice, which was still quite distinct, indeed
she was taking the trouble to speak more
plainly than usual, ' you see the evil of not
posting like people of our condition. A lady
is exposed to contact with low persons who
think nothing of insulting her. I have a great
mind to go back yet.'

Oh no, my dear,' cried the poor man in
alarm, for he knew there were no bounds to her
vagaries, and that she would even punish herself
rather than restrain them; 'you'll not
think of taking the rue now with the seats
paid through, and your ain folk and the life you
care for awaiting you at the end of the journey
surely you would not let your pride out-gang
your profit.'

That is one of your low proverbs, and
the payment of the seats is nothing to mein
comparison with my comfort and the respect
which is my due,' she mounted her high
horse instantly. ' It is like your countrymen,
sir, to mention the things in the same breath.'

The payment of the seats is something tome,'
groaned the laird, ' and this jaunt will belong
minded among the Pitteuchar accounts. I
thought it would have pleased you for once,
woman,' he remonstrated in his candour and

7 to

exasperation. And then he added a clause to
the sentence in a lower tone that was inaudible
within the coach, but which served for the
edification of the little crowd without, to whom
a wrangle for places was as grist to their mill,
and who loved still more dearly a brawl, civil
or foreign. ' But nothing within the reach of
mortal man would content a petted quean
who is never twelve hours free from the
fling-stings.'

Mr. Andrew Dundas of the Record Office
made peace by suggesting like a cautious man,
in the ear of the beauty and heiress, that the
unaccommodating individual  Mr. Andrew did
not venture to call her a lady in such a hearing
was merely bound for Berwick, and by the
next morning at the farthest the company would
be quit of her.

It may be noted here that neither the young
Lady Pitteuchar nor Mr. Andrew had been of
the cream of Edinburgh society twenty years
before.

What call had I to contradict her ? ' the
malcontent was asking herself half impatiently,
half disconsolately. ' I might have let her
domineer as she chose  though' it would
hardly have suited me to be driven from the
window  I have more to take up my head
about. But. it was like me to stand up against
insolence that could do no great harm save to
the haughty madam herself, who will tell a

different story if she and I ever see Auld
Eeekie again. Will he come, think you?
Under the very glower of Kirsten claiming the
best place at the window, with Isobel peeping
over her shoulder, too mim as a widow, to gaze
openly into the street  after what another widow
is prepared to do ! Oh, Ailsie, Ailsie Hyndford,
what have you to say for yourself? Yet I
mourned truly for wild Willie Hyndford, who
led me a fell dance, and I thought to go softly
for the rest of my days. Will Harry come,
think you, to break the bonds  which are but
of tow after all, yet have the warnings of a
lifetime  in order to be true to himself and tome?'


It may be said in so many words there was
no necessity for Lord Balfour and Mrs. Sandford,
with 'a purpose of marriage' in their minds,
to repair to the Border to put the purpose into
execution, even if they sought to carry it outwith
the quietness and simplicity dear to Scotch

law, and not unwelcome to Scotch nature in its
lateness and thrift. For a wedding conducted
on the elopement principle saved much idle
display and useless waste. Abuses of the age
in this respect were great, a century ago. In
effect a notion began to prevail that an honourable
private marriage speedily acknowledged
was on the whole a more decorous step than a
compliance with the coarsely splendid clamour
and parade of the public marriage of the
times.

Lord Balfour and Mrs. Hyndford had a
keen perception of all that was incongruous and
open to ridicule in the affair. In their elderly
sheepishness they sought to escape the notice
which younger and more thoughtless people,
with their effrontery not yet impaired, actually
court. The seniors knew further that the
slightest intimation of their intention must
provoke the violent opposition of relatives
whose rancour was scarcely rendered less

formidable by the fact that their power  like a
title of courtesy  was cod ceded by favour of
one of the victims. The couple had the greatest
temptation to what was styled a run-away
marriage. True, a run-away marriage was
specially unbecoming in people whose run-away
days were over ; it was far below the
dignity of # judge, and would have constituted
a heinous irregularity in the member of
an English bench. Certainly a whole Lord
Chancellor eloped in his time, still Lord Eldon
was only Jack Scott when he carried off Bessie
Turtles, and such an indiscretion was far from
his thoughts when he sat on the woolsack. It
was left for a Scotch judge to play the vagabond
part of Jock o' Hazeldean.

Harry Balfour was a full-fledged judge at
the time he meditated the escapade so outrageous
in his circumstances. But he was still
more Harry Balfour than the great lawyer, and
Harry Balfour he would continue to the end

of the chapter. He was the most incorrigibly
natural and impulsive of men, in the
middle of his sagacity and erudition, deeply
ashamed of his eccentricity, but utterly incapable
of conquering it. He vindicated the
curious truth that rash, romantic  even
fantastic feats have been perfectly possible to
the stout Scotchman of mature years which
would be simply incredible in the polished
and genial man of the world, his English
brother.

But if Harry Balfour could be guilty of an
elopement at his age and in his office, and if
Ailsie Hyndford could consent to an impropriety
which every good woman, though no
more than a girl in her teens, feels more keenly
than any man  if she could demean herself
for his sake more than for her own, to believe
that stratagems were allowable in love and war,
and flight was the only means by which an
oppressed man could defy his oppressors, and

free to his dying day his goodly manhood from
the unseemly yoke of his encroaching children
even in that extreme case there was no call
for the fugitives to travel for the space of
twelve hours to Lambertonon toll-bar, or to
employ in their flight the public means of an
Edinburgh and London coach. All Scotland
possessed the same privileges as Lambertonon on
the eastern and Gretna Green on the western
border ; it was only benighted young Englishmen
and women who had not reached the age
of independence that must rush to the limits
of their country to marry whom they would,
without the consent of parents and guardians
as who should have known so well as that
legal authority, Harry Balfour ? Why, he had
judged in his day dozens of delinquents in
debatable marriages and found the important
knot tight and indissoluble whether it were tied
in the Highlands or the Lowlands or the far
Islands, or even on such a rock of the ocean as

the Bass or Ails Craig, provided only a lad
and lass called each other, in good faith, husband
and wife before credible witnesses. More
than that, here in the capital in his own good
town, no farther off than the neighbourhood of
the Palace of Holyrood in that portion of the
old Abbey which has fallen down in the world
and become a refuge for debtors and broken
men, there existed a region to which Harry
could get in a morning stroll, where there was
provision made for the accomplishment of the
secret and quickly concluded marriages of the
citizens.

Certainly, whether because no fair amount
of distance lent enchantment to the view,
or for some other occult reason, there was a
degree of disreputability attached to the town
temple of Hymen which did not cling to the
rural Berwickshire cottage or the Dumfriesshire
blacksmith's shop.

All the same if Lord Balfour and Mrs.

Hyndford had sought to complete their contract
without the remotest danger of delay and interference,
they could with the greatest ease
have stolen a march on their unconscious
friends, met each other by appointment in the
course of an early walk, and, in the slighting
phrase peculiar to such Edinburgh marriages,
'taken the half mere' in the dingy, ill-flavoured
house in the Canongate appropriated
to these ceremonies.

But long-established precedent pointing to
Lambertonon or Gretna as the fitting scene of the
act, and so lending a traditional propriety to
the deed perpetrated there, induced many
Scotch couples of position to undertake a toilsome
journey, at a time when travelling was
still difficult, to the confines of England in
order to attain an end which English lovers
were compelled to come within the bounds of
Scotland to achieve, and which the favoured
natives might have compassed as thoroughly in

VOL. II. H

the very next room to their hostile kindred.
It might have seemed a graceful but rather
foolish compliment  which one would scarcely
have expected in the Scotch character for hard
common sense  to English disability. In
reality it was a voluntary submission on the
part of the most refractory to the venerable
obligations of use and wont. Harry Balfour,
with all his eccentricity, was not indifferent to
precedent  rather he was liable to be strongly
influenced by association ; moreover it appears
to his biographer that in the excitement of
these days he must have been carried away by
his feelings and rendered half frantic by what
to a man of his character would be the strange
jumble of perplexity, pride, affront, rapture,
and anguish in the situation. And so he proposed
to elope to Lambertonon in the way the
most illogical, but which was rendered well-nigh
respectable and harmonious by the consecration
of custom ; and he was going by the

Edinburgh and London coach, either because
the great body of the fugitives went in a like
manner, or for the more satisfactory reason
that his setting out in a post-chaise and picking
up Mrs. Hyndford on the road might, after all,
attract greater suspicion, while it would savour
yet more strongly of indecorum.

'Will-he come?' sighed Ailsie Hyndford
again to herself, growing sick with hope
deferred and grievous apprehension lest her
king of men should fail her  as, to be sure, in
this instance his predecessor had not done.
'It was only too good a ploy for Willie
Hyndford,' said Ailsie to herself, shaking her
head unseen by her companions. ' To think
that any one woman should be so far left to
herself as to elope twice in a single lifetime,
though there may be an odds in the elopements !
I should say it would be fitter for me than for
young Lady Pitteuchar to take the rue.'

But Ailsie had to acknowledge that it would

be the sorest humiliation of all if, after having
brought herself to this sorry pass a second time
in her strange eventful history, she should be
deprived of the opportunity of eloping by the
absence of a partner in the performance, since
the preparations for the coach starting were
nearly completed and as yet there was no sign
of the lagging bridegroom.

Then Mrs. Hyndford gave a great start and
uttered half aloud a ' Gude preserve me ! '
while she said within herself in the height of
her alarm and distress :' ' Who is this but
Mr. Hendrie in the room of his father ? And
though he kens nothing and guesses nothing,
he cannot fail to see and speak with me, and
what is to hinder him from catching Harry
Balfour in the act ? '

Mr. Hendrie did come mincingly to the
coach door. He greeted with effusion the
young Lady Pitteuchar, for whom he had a
great esteem, nodded condescendingly to Mr.

Andrew Dundas, and, peering still farther
through the evening shades into the depths of
the cumbrous vehicle, for he surpassed his sisters
in inquisitiveness, he discovered Mrs. Hyndford,
and, innocent man, felicitated himself on the
discovery.

6 Good evening to you, Mrs. Hyndford.'
He addressed her with the languid affability
which is peculiarly exasperating to a woman
of lively temper. ' Are you changing your
abode with your garb ? Are you going South
to make your fortune ? ' And he stared fixedly
at her with a quick satirical recognition of
what she had entertained a nervous fear was
conspicuous in her dress  that she had laid
aside her widow's bonnet and cloak, though she
still wore mourning.

He had no right to put such a question or
make, such a comment, and she was not slow to
resent the impertinence. ' My fortune is made,
as you may find, Mr. Hendrie,' she said with spirit.

Then by one of those strange subtle contradictions
which are continually occurring in life,
some slight hereditary trait or trick of gesture
inadvertently acquired by the elderly-minded
young man, who was so unlike his father,
flashed unexpectedly out upon the woman, who
knew them both well, and reminded her vividly
who the speaker was, and what was his
ineffaceable relationship to Harry Balfour.

With the recollection came a glorified vision
of Mr. Hendrie's somewhat grotesque figure as
it moved inextricably amidst scenes lit up by
the glamour of youth. He had then been a
lad several years the junior of herself and his
sister Kirsten, and was in those days a good
deal at their beck and call. He had never been
very generous or kindly, but he had been considerably
less sophisticated and self-conceited
than now. He had even been proud of Ailsie's
notice, and fain to do her will, when her notice
conferred honour, and her service was in request.

Mrs. Hynclford bent forward and said
tremulously with a tinge of superstition and
still more of relenting in her accents, for what
struck her at the moment as a plot against the
companions of her girlhood, f Cousin Hendrie,
for auld acquaintance* sake, will you part
friends ? Will you assoilzie me of any evil
intent against you and yours, and wish me godspeed
before T start on my errand ? It may be
better for us all in the end.'

His pride was offended by the public
proclamation of their relationship  before the
young Lady Pitteuchar of all people. His
vanity was hurt by Ailsie's classing herself with
him in any future consequences which could
accrue from the terms on which they met or
parted. His hard worldly nature led him to
treat any pretensions of hers to his consideration
with simple contempt.

I wish you such god-speed on your
errand, madam,' he said, introducing his dainty

person into the coach and speaking in her ear
as she leant forward to meet his advances, fora
fine gentleman could not be openly rude to
a lady, ' that I hope you will stay away where
your presence may be better prized, and
never return where, so far as I can see, your
company is not wanted.'

Mrs. Hyndford recoiled as from a stab, but
her eyes sparkled even while her lips quivered.

Another messenger than Mr. Hendrie came
forward at the last moment to encourage the
fainting heart of the traveller with hearty good
wishes. The judge's clerk, Gillespie, with his
red and ill-kempt locks, bolted across the street.
His face was radiant with smiles and in his glee
and natural irreverence of manner he managed
to tread on Mr. Hendrie's toes till the dandy
retired in bodily agony and mental disgust.

1 A happy departure and a still happier return
to your ladyship,' he addressed Ailsie
with a careless misapplication of titles. ' Every

well-wisher of your trusty friend' Lord Balfour
maun say as muckle.' After he had delivered
the speech, as if sensible that he had been
betrayed into an indiscretion unbecoming in a
judge's clerk, however comprehensible in the
familiar of Harry Balfour, he also withdrew
abruptly, but not too soon.

Lady Pitteuchar was crying out pettishly,
1 Who is that hideous fellow ? He is mad of
course (Pitteuchar, where are you ? You are
never to be found when you are wanted). I
never saw the man in my life before. Who is
he my-laying here ? ' And once more she
looked over her fellow-traveller disdainfully.

But of what real avail could Gillie's homage
and premature congratulations prove, though
even the empty sound comforted for an instant
the lonely, sensitive woman who had responded
so quickly all her life to the shadow of insult
or honour, harshness or kindness ? Where was
the use, if she had no secret but mighty fellow-conspirator

in her daring adventure, if she were
left to go alone on her bootless expedition ?
Gillie's words did no more than stay the rising
tide of humiliation and despair by a moment's
mystified respite.

But before the moment was ended, as the
Scotch Jehu mounted to his seat and prepared to
handle the ribands and the hostlers moved from
the horses' heads, a little cry got up that a tardy
outside passenger was about to be left behind.

It was a traveller of the humblest description,
who ought not to have taken it upon her
to retard the progress of her' betters, whose
unpunctual arrival was greeted with a general
burst of impatience from both travellers and
bystanders, as well as by Lady Pitteuchar's
amazed inquiry whether all the tag, rag, and
bobtail down to beggar-wives were to travel in

CO

her august company and conspire to keep her
waiting ?

The aggressor was not literally a ' beggar-wife

' though, she was a member of the lowest
industrial class and belonged to a public calling
much less independent and picturesque than
that of the Newhaven fish wives. She was a
specimen of the old Edinburgh  water-wives '
in one of their grey duffle cloaks with hoods
that could be drawn over the women's matches.
These poor women were, for the most part, a
set of decayed hangers-on, thankful to supply
for the smallest gratuity the universal need of
their more prosperous neighbours. Few, save
the most poverty-stricken and helpless in other
respects, assumed an office which from the
dawn of history has been relegated to born
helots and captive slaves.

In general the water-wives were less able-bodied
than the old woman who was hastening
to mount to the top of the coach without requiring
the ladder to be replaced, and as a
rule the poor creatures did not seek to go to
any great distance from home.

A shout of censure and derision hailed the
old woman's excited efforts. ' Lucky, you have
been faith to set down your water stops  they
might have been gill stops and held mountain-dew
instead of Adam's wine. What are you
wanting so far a-field? Carrying races of
water maun be a good trade. Na, whip up
your beasts, Jock, and cinna tarry for the impudent
lizzie of a daft carline.'

But in the sensation which had been created
the strangest effect of all was produced on
Ailsie Hyndford, who after darting out one
sharp glance at the miserable object of the
commotion, fell back into the shadow in a sudden
convulsion of laughter, which continued
long after the horn had sounded its shrill blast
and the coach had at last started. She would
have covered her face with her hands, if she had
dared, to hide the unseasonable mirth which
other people might judge did not become her
mature years and the sombre colour of her

garments, and which none of her companions
shared. But she could only hold down her
head, pull the cape of her pelisse round her,
and trust to the deepening gloaming, while her
dark eyes danced and her whole figure shook
with the smothered expression of irrepressible
merriment as the words shaped themselves in
her thoughts. ' Oh ! Harry, Harry Balfour,
there's nae full like an auld full. This is the
maddest of all your mad pranks, and you a
great judge as well as the head of a house, the
father of a grown-up family, a man of threescore
! '

Happily the tramp of the horses' feet and
the jolting and plunging of the coach on the
not too smooth road combined still farther to
drown the echo of the laughter, while Lady
Pitteuchar chanced for the moment to be engrossed
with some more pressing personal
grievance. But Mr. Andrew Dundas did speculate
with a passing spasm of consternation,

Is the woman in a fit ? ' While the skipper's
gudewife settled in her own mind with a more
agreeable sense of surprise, ' Lost ! she's a
canty summer yon, for all her shabby gentility
and her black gown, and for as white as
she grew when the braw birkie showed her
despite.'

CHAPTER V.

THE END OF THE ADVENTURE.

The last grey gleam of the April daylight
had faded into a dark night before the first
stage of the journey was reached. The fitful
chatter of Lady Pitteuchar had sunk into a
cross drowsiness. Polite Mr. Andrew was beginning
to ask himself with considerable dismay
whether he should not become cramped beyond
the possibility of endurance or recovery, if he
had to travel all the way to London without
the power of putting out his elbow or stretching
forth his foot, except at the halting places.
The gudewife was dreaming wistfully, with her
honest eyes close shut and her kindly mouth

wide open, of a ship's deck as clean as her
house floor in Leith, of tall masts and flapping
sails. But Ailsie Hyndford was both wide
awake and utterly indifferent to the discomforts
of the situation.

The stopping of the coach at the first unyoking
and revoking of the horses, while the
different operations were conducted with as
much despatch as possible at this early period
of the journey, caused a slight stir in the company,
who had not yet settled down into the
philosophic composure of experienced travellers.
Some of the younger outside passengers insisted
on getting down already, that they might
comply with the orthodox ceremony of stamping
their feet on the stones, though they could
not cross the threshold of the inn with its
swinging sign and faintly twinkling lights in, the
street of the little country town which kept
early hours, and but for the night-coach would
already have been plunged in oblivion. The

association with these restless spirits affected
the poor old water wife, who insisted, in spite
of all remonstrances, on making the perilous
descent. She went so far as to reject the final
overture of the friendly Laird of Pitteuchar
that he would rather treat her to one of the
drams ' which attentive waiters were handing
up to the outside passengers, if that would induce
the ' camsteerie ' body to sit still and give
no farther trouble.

The wilful old woman stumbled round the
coach, peering in at the windows till she came
to that at which sat Mrs. Hyndford, who immediately
drew down the glass and spoke with her
humble acquaintance.

4 What a shocking draught ! ' cried Lady
Pitteuchar. ' Close that window instantly.'

I beg your pardon, Madam,' said Mrs.
Hyndford, with careful civility this time. ' I
will sit between you and the draught, but I
must speak with  with my servant.' And she

VOL. II. I

put out her head again, and in spite of what
threatened to be a return of the hysterical
laughter, entered into an earnest colloquy with
a person who begged her pardon shamefacedly
over and over again, in the middle of his exultation
at the success he had achieved.

'There was no other way, Ailsie. They
would have found me out, and flat and great,
and I could not have stood their tongues  so
I even made Gillie borrow auld Eppie 's
cloak and mutch, as for a splore of his
ain. They could not detect me in that guise.
I'll pay Eppie well for the loan, and I'll face
-the Deil himself that I should even my own
wise bairns to his Satanic Majesty  when I
bring you back Mrs. Balfour with the best
right of all to stand by my side, after I have
broken the matter in writing to Kirsten and
Hendrie. It was to spare you as well as myself,
Ailsie, my love,' pled the Judge piteously,
riot unconscious that he had failed somewhat in

true manhood and in homage to his Ailsie.
< There is a bag on the coach with my best
suit.'

4 Xa, na, my Lord Ailsie would have her
own way now; ' Since ye have seen fit to
elope in a water wife's clothes. I'll marry you
in beggar's duds as you stand, or not at all.
Do you even me to caring for your robes of
state ? It is you men and not we women who
set store on such vanity. Do you think I cannot
distinguish my Hercules 's head in Omphale's
curch, or acknowledge my dear lord and master
in a cloak of freeze ? Are you not noble to mein
the basest disguise ? Do you not mind how
Fair Janet, in one of the auld ballants you were
wont to be so fond of, gripped the lover whom
she saved, and held him fast, though he was
changed to an ask in her faithful arms ? '

It was as if she would have said but for the
reverence she bore him, ' Has not your weakness
become sacred to me ? Shall I not hence
2

forth treat it as though it were my own folly,
and so screen it from less tender eyes ? '

In the interval Lady Pitteuchar had suffered
herself to remain still in her bewilderment. ' My
servant ! ' she repeated. ' I have brought no
servant with me, 9 as if her conduct formed the
model for all feminine behaviour. ' Pitteuchar
pretended she would only be a burden, and that
I should easily get an English girl who would
be of more use  which might well be  on my
arrival. Put I vow this is enough to put
servants out of fashion

'A servant, quo' she?' repeated obsequious
Mr. Andrew. ' A very randy-like
servant.'

The coach rolled on with its varied freight
into the cloudy darkness which only the lamps,
like two glow-worms, lit up for the scantiest
space, into the unknown future on which no
clumsy lamp of human construction, no small
but marvellous creature of God's creation 

only God himself could flash illumination.
The horn, which the sleepy guard saw himself
called upon to sound occasionally, as a warning
note of the lumbering vehicle's presence, took
a fitful and weird tone among the night
echoes, as if it were blown by some phantom
performer. The travellers relapsed into that
folding of the hands in a compulsory apathy,
which, in the absence of rude disturbance,
night brings in lieu of sleep, even to aching
heads and throbbing hearts.

But at every constantly recurring stage
which like minute guns roused the travellers to
temporary animation, the same singular performance
was gone through again. The water-wife
with remarkable agility scrambled down
from her high seat, hurried round, and had the
interview with the lady at the window. No
chill of midnight in the northern regions cooled
her zeal, no broken slumber of utter weariness
lulled to rest her slumbering devotion.

The attention  not of the aggrieved Lady
Pitteuchar and her devoted squire alone  but
of the whole coach company, including driver
and guard, began to be fixed and fascinated by
the persistent repetition of the unaccountable
by-play. Whispers of feverish curiosity and
startled alarm commenced to rout sleep's twin-brother,
sluggish submission to fate. Grim
suggestions curdled the blood of the most careless.
But no tangible excuse had been afforded
on which rising suspicions could lay hold to
demand an instant explanation, to seize
the eccentric water-wife, to put a detaining
hand on the mysterious lady, and
summarily expel them on the first opportunity
from the ranks of the passengers, who w T ould
thus leave danger and terror behind them, atone
of the wayside inns or provincial towns by
which the coach was passing. A poor lady
might possess an uncouth servant, and might
speak with her at every stage of the journey on

their own private business, without the public's
owning a right to interfere. The skipper's wife
was physically courageous in her simple,
straight-forward nature ; but though she did
not belong naturally to the speculative class
of society, she, too, occupied herself with the
puzzle. ' Mistress and maid who are so throng,
who are so fain to speak, and have so much to
say to each other ! It's mistress and man, I'll
wager,' was the silent comment, f Yon water-wife
is six feet in her stocking soles, and she
climbs over the coach wheel almost like a cat, ora
sailor. No modest woman  and I've no
reason to think she's not modest  however
auld, ever thought so little of showing her
cutes.' The citing of a sailor as an example
suggested a version of the incident from her own
experience. ' Dod ! he'll just be a sailor,' she
told herself, well pleased at the idea ;  ane
that should have held a commission, since his
teddy is a broken-down gentlewoman. They'll

have fallen down in the world thither. He'll
have gone off to the sea, ony gate, and risen
may be from a man-before-the-mast to a mate.
It is no illa sailor who can take up at his own
hand the skill in navigation of my Jamie. And
they'll be in dread of the press-gang, poor things ;
so she'll be convoying him, dressed up like a
guisard, to some port where there is no King's
frigate lurking like a shark at the mouth of the
harbour. Eh! I'm wae for the couple, and
I'll never betray them though I should risk
being held an accomplice. '

From the moment she received that impression
the skipper's wife lent her humble
countenance to the delinquents. She even
ventured to speak a word of respectful fellowship
to her companion and to offer her a share
of the oven cakes, lubbock, and ale with
which she had fortified herself, by the aid of
which she thought to wile away the long
hours.

In place of showing herself touchy at the
liberty, as most indigent gentlewomen would
have done, the poor lady received it with a
warmth of gratitude that nearly overcame the
donor. ; Your kindness at such a time does me
good,' said Ailsie Hyndford incoherently. ' You
are a kind woman ; you are too good tome.'


As the first pale streak of dawn lent a
certain ghastly haggardness, in the scared eyes
of the sleepless travellers, to the aspect of the
conspirators in one of their never-ending, always
renewed consultations, Mr. Andrew Dundas,
who had not been permitted to take refuge
from care in three out of the privileged forty
winks during the whole of the anxious night,
found himself goaded by fatigue and worry to
turn on his tormentor, as the humblest creature
will be driven to assert itself. He would
furnish Lady Pitteuchar with a stronger reason
for her unrestrained paroxysms of wrath and

apprehension. i If she will drive an unfortunate
gentleman who has been so obliging as to
place himself at her service, well-nigh out of
his mind with her cantrips, as if she were the
only person in danger here,' Mr. Andrew protested
between his teeth, waxing vicious under
the infliction, ' by my word, I will drop her a hint
that will give her something to cry out about
if she should swerve outright, the better forme.'
' Yon water wife is a strapping jade,' said
the mild man, speaking low, behind the back of
Mrs. Hyndford, as she was too much engrossed
with her own whispers out of the window to
catch the conversation within the coach that had
reference to her and her servant. ' I would not
be surprised though she were one of a gang of
gipsies ; and the lady her mistress has such a
pair of eyes as I never saw the marrow of, save
under a spaewife's boniface  I'm wondering if
she may not be the queen of the tribe buskin to
represent a gentlewoman ? 

Lady Pitteuchar caught at the dreadful
word. 'Am I to be robbed and murdered
where I sit? Pitteuchar! Pitteuchar!' She
did not even call on Mr. Andrew to defend her,
or to summon her husband, she thrust her
head out of the opposite window and screamed
loudly for so delicate a woman, to procure help
on her own account. And even the brave
charitable wife of the skipper prepossessed by
her own gentle theory of the mystery, and
armed with a panoply of placid common sense,
shuddered at the name of gipsies.

Pitteuchar was waked up from a series of
uneasy naps by the tidings  not altogether new
to him  that his teddy was ' either in an ecsty
or a dam.' Swinging himself down from his
elevation, with a protracted yawn and a bootless
grumble, ' Soul, man ! will she no let a child
sleep even on the top of a night coach ? ' he said.
6 What's the matter now, my teddy ! ' he demanded
somewhat stolidly for the nature of the

summons, winking his yellow-fringed eyelids ashe
presented himself to the shrieking lady.

Matter ! ' panted Lady Pitteuchar, ; am I to
be robbed and murdered in here, while you sit
like Lot's wife, and pay no heed, on the top of
the coach ? '

c I never heard tell of Lot's wife sitting on
the top of a coach,' objected Pitteuchar, who,
like most of his countrymen, was intimately
acquainted with Scripture, but whose criticism
was finical to say the least, in the heat of such
an announcement. ' You are not robbed and
murdered yet, Teddy Pitteuchar, and who is
going to do the deed, if I may make bold
to ask?'

Lady Pitteuchar would have made bold to
answer him in the sight and hearing of the
offenders. That imprudent couple might, if
they had managed better and taken ordinary
precautions, have lain perdu and avoided to a
large extent the notice their reckless conduct

had attracted. But as it was, discovering that
they could not hear themselves speak in the din,
they were putting the finishing touch to their
indiscretion, and rendering themselves still more
open to condemnation. Mrs. Hyndford had
quitted the coach in company with the water-wife
at this untimely hour of the morning, and
gone several paces apart where they might
confer together a few minutes in peace.

There are gipsies about the coach,' asserted
Lady Pitteuchar with desperate calmness in the
tremendousness of the charge. ' One is dressed
like a water wife and is outside with you, if you
would only open your great round eyes ; the
other, wretchedly got up as a lady, is inside 
actually here  with me!' giving the last words
in a succession of outraged gasps.

'I can say nothing about the ledcly, but
the water-wife is no gipsy,' swore Pitteuchar
roundly ;  I can tell that much whatever else she
may be  I offered her a pinch of snuff from my

box in the glint of one of the coach lamps, and
she took it with a hand a handle whiter and softer
than my own. You [may say that is no sign of
honesty in a water wife, which is very true 
none the less it was no gipsy's hand, moreover
it was not a young hand such as you might expect
to find in a masquerade  I saw the fingers
plainly and they were a thought lean and
wrinkled. I'm of opinion,' announced Pitted
with the modest importance of a man who
has made a signal discovery, ' it is an affair of
the State. Some grey-headed billie, of rank
above us all, has been playing fast and loose
with high treason and trafficking with a Court
I will not name, beyond the seas. It is a
question for a Secretary of State and not for
the guard or the driver.'

6 Keep me ! Pitteuchar, you don't say so
exclaimed Mr. Andrew in high-pitched excitement.
' It will never be a scheme to carry off
the mails and the Record papers in my valise ? '

I will not pledge myself,' said Pitteuchar
cautiously.

And what am I to do ? ' clamoured Lady
Pitteuchar. ' Am I to ride on with this plot
not cleared up ? '

Unless you prefer being left behind,' said
Pitteuchar drily ; { and who kens how many men
may be lying at the inns on the road, for the
whole country is in a distracted state. I advise
you rather to bide a wee, and play patience 
for a change. There will be Berwick and breakfast
at the next stage, and then we'll see
whether we cannot come to closer quarters
with the cattle, and be at the bottom of the
intrigue  if intrigue there be.'

Lady Pitteuchar was forced to submit ; but
the poor lady and the water-wife did not see
Berwick on this occasion. When the coach
came within a short distance of the debatable
walled town which belongs neither to Scotland
nor England, but to the Enemy of mankind

generally, intimation was given to the driver
that two of the passengers had arrived at their
destination, so far as he was concerned ; and
the coach was pulled up to permit the lady and
her servant to quit the company. But, however
thankful the passengers might be to get
rid of the obnoxious pair, the circumstances of
their withdrawal were hardly re-assuring. The
exit occurred on a country road  doubly lonely
at that early hour, where there stood neither
vehicle, horse, nor human being to meet the
travellers. No house was within sight, while
two still more ominous signs of the position
thrilled the nerves and daunted the spirits of
those interested in the scrutiny. These tokens
made themselves obvious in that dimness of the
dawn which only lent an increased awe to their
consideration. The far horizon was swept by
the German ocean with its foam-crested waves
rolling green and surly, capable of rocking any
number of smuggling luggers on its heaving

breast between the mouths of Tweed and Tyne,
and in the shadow of the Holy Isle and Lindisfarne.
The near prospect was closed in by the
brown heathery waste of Laniberton Moor
haunted by highwaymen after the fashion of
moors a century ago. Both wild natural boundaries
stretched out faintly but distinctly discernible,
behind their shifting veil of spring liar or
east country fog, through which the silver and
primrose beams of the sunrise were struggling.
In the stress of, emotion caused by the sinister
landmarks, a hasty proposal was conveyed to
the driver to send after the retreating wayfarers
fast vanishing in the pearly haze, cause them to
return and keep their seats till Berwick was
reached.

But the bluff captain of the coach with his
sturdy lieutenant the guard resisted the panic
as they interchanged roguish glances. They
pointed out plausibly that it was already broad
daylight with the good town of Berwick near

VOL. TT. K

at hand. And when these specious arguments
against interference with the liberty of the
King's subjects, so far from stilling the clamour,
threatened to raise a hue and cry against the
very authorities in charge, the driver suffered
himself to indicate by a flourish of his whip
and a single observation, sententious in its
brevity, that if Lambertonon Moor lay there to
the left  Lambertonon Toll-bar rose here only
three fields off to the right.

The effect of the announcement was electrical.
The bent bow of minds on the stretch
with morbid dread and ready to snap in the
tension, relaxed instantaneously and sprang to
the opposite extreme of keen amusement and
smothered affront at their idle fears. The
ridiculous side of the affair, in which, happily
for private pride, the whole coach company 
not excepting the experienced officials  had
been involved, helped everybody to enjoy the
sufficient apology so generally overlooked for

the cause of the night's tremors. Amidst a
chorus of ' echo ! ' ohs ! peals of laughter, and
a light fantasia of jocular speculation, Lady
Pitteuchar's solo was heard. i The woman was
fifty if she was a day,' she said spitefully. (Lady
Pitteuchar herself was not above twenty, and
let us hope she lived to grow wiser and more
generous.) ' She was as grey as a rat.' (Lady
Pitteuchar wore the last hair cap or young
matron's wig.) ' Every bit of colour was washed
out of her thin cheeks ' (Lady Pitteuchar owed
the high colour on her ovn plump cheeks to
the prevailing paint-pot) ; c she was a miserable
old creature  a frightful dowdy, not even a
fool of a man could find a word to say for her,
save that she had the eyes of a disreputable
fortune-teller,' she finished, turning in the most
unprovoked outrageous manner on Mr. Andrew,
raking up the single personal remark he had
made on Mrs. Hyndford, and putting on it a
totally different construction from what it had
k 2

borne originally. It appeared that Lady
Pitteuchar had caught the doubtful compliment,
and stored it away even in the middle of her
frenzy, in order to draw it forth and launch it
at the head of its astonished author, when he
least expected the abuse of his theory.

6 Well, my teddy, you must own the pair
are not ill-matched in one respect,' said Pitted
' for he had the hand of a greybeard.'
But Mr. Andrew remained confounded and
sulky at the gross injustice which was all the
reward he got for his good intentions.

The skipper's wife was impelled to speak
and even to contradict her social superiors.
You are wrong,' she said with modest confidence,
still cherishing her version of the
mystery, while she glanced at the sea. * But
even if it be as you jalouse, I thought there was
ae thing on earth which never grew caulcl or
auk.' She could not say more ' afore folk '
especially in the presence of quality, and even

for the words she had spoken, a slight soft
blush, a sweet sober reflection of her youthful
roses, stole into the comely matron's face. But
she knew what she would have done  supposing
she had been parted in their fresh youth from
her skipper who, as it happened, had reigned in
the character of her gudeman for so many years
that even a sailor's joints were waxing stiff, and
a certain fine flavour of crustiness was becoming
developed in the manliness of his temper. His
stiffness and crustiness would not have weighed
a straw with the love of his youth, if he had still
needed her help, and craved her company.
Nay, the staid gudewife felt shyly conscious
that in such a case, she would have cared little
for tokens which, when other questions were in
debate, proved all-powerful to her womanly
mind  that in the long interval her own chestnut
hair had grown dim and scant, and her
light, quick step heavy and slow. Her step
could not have crown so slow that she would

not have been up and away to the Borders to
keep the tryst he set, at the first wag of his
horny finger. She would have plighted her
troth to him when they were a careworn man
and woman, as surely as when they were a blithe
lad and lass  though the whole unbelieving,
uncomprehending world had laughed them to
scorn as they were mocking at this couple.

Even so on this April morning Lord Balfour
and Mrs. Hyndford were made one in the
cottage by the Lambertonon Toll-bar  built so
exactly on the borders of the united countries,
with their widely diverging laws, that of the
two rooms the ' but ' is in Scotland, while the
ben ' is in England.

The deed done without ceremony was
beyond recall  neither Miss Kirsten nor Mr.
Hendrie, the Lord Advocate nor the Solicitor-general
 not even the General Assembly of
the Kirk of Scotland, though it has always
solemnly disapproved of rites shorn of its

blessing  only death itself could thenceforth
part the pair. And Harry Balfour, like the
warrior Bark after the prophetess Deborah
had consented to go up with him and meet
Sisera and his host, became brave as a lion,
to face his irate children from the moment that
Ailsie Hyndford was his wedded wife.

The coming ordination and settlement of the
new minister of Birkenbarns formed a topic
under discussion at the breakfast table of Bird
the house of Claud Kirkpatrick, the
chief resident heritor in the parish, though not.
its patron. The latter was a nobleman long
expatriated by the twin obligations of a
damaged bodily constitution and a heavily
encumbered territorial estate.

The speaker who introduced the subject
was Bruce Kirkpatrick, the youngest daughter
of the house, a gay, restless, discontented young
girl, barely out of her teens, with the brightest

brown hair and eyes, and the most mobile
mouth and brows within many miles.

It was an open winter, and the household
had a considerable interest in hunting and
coursing through its young master Claud,
whose sole business in life  barring a little
very badly done amateur farming  was sport
in some shape. Bruce kept jotting down
several engagements of the kind on a card
which lay by her plate, preparatory to the
card's being hung for general convenience over
the chimney piece in what was called by courtesy
Mr. Kirkpatrick's ' writing-room. ' Suddenly
she stopped, held up her head, looked
round with her keen bright eyes, calculated in
her quick fashion, and alighted on a conclusion.

'No, not on Thursday to be sure, certainly
not on Thursday. That is the day of
Muckle Wat Baillie's ordination ; ' and her
eyes shone and twinkled with a mixture of
interest and amusement.

Her audience consisted of her brother, who
was turning over the slice of kippered salmon
on his plate with an air of sullen disgust
though he had deliberately selected the morsel
and two elder sisters. These ladies were
much older than Claud and Bruce, quite elderly
women, though they had possessed the same
parents, the four having been divided by a
considerable space of time, and placed at opposite
ends of a large family, widely scattered
with the exception of the members present.

The two handsome elderly ladies in caps
and shawls were occupied  the one in pouring
out tea and coffee, the other in affectionately
feeding with the choicest bits which had been
prepared for her oavu eating, a small colony
of clamorous dogs, consisting of a fox-terrier,
a Blenheim, and a mongrel.

Bruce's remark met with a characteristic
reception. ' The minister's settlement be
hanged ! ' growled Claud, a peculiarly ill conditioned,

sallow, sickly-looking lad, two or
three years older than Bruce. ' These black-coats
make 'too much noise about their doings.
1 for one don't mean to miss a meet or a run
on account of any man-jack among them. I
should not mind getting up a rival rat-hunt in
the barn on purpose that morning. I am not
going to the kirk on a week-day. What do
they mean by all this row about settlements
and inductions ? Cannot the man settle himself,
and have done with it, on a Sunday ? I'll
know enough of his settlement when the
striking of the fears comes round  I should
not care to go off to the English chapel, though
that would be to pay the piper twice over

The elder Miss Kirkpatrick were well
accustomed to the rude ebullitions of their
darling ; for Claud was their cherished nursling,
whom they had coddled and coaxed through a
weak infancy and childhood  in which he had
the misfortune to be left early motherless,

latterly fatherless also, and brought up to such
manhood as he was capable of attaining.
They did not care half so much for Bruce the
youngest born, who had always been healthy
and lively, and had not given a. tithe of the
trouble in her rearing. She was only a lassie
and the eighth daughter of the house, not that

DO "

she also was not tolerably spoilt in her way.
Five of these fair blooming young daughters 
the Kirkpatricks, save for Claud, were a fine-looking
race  had married each as she grew
up, some well, some ill, without much nicety of
selection or prudent forethought, and flown
here and there from the parent roof, none
settling in the neighbourhood. Only the two
elder sisters, Miss Kirkpatrick and Miss Lily,
remained, by some unaccountable chance, since
they had been neither less lovely nor more
particular, in their day, than their sisters, to
bring up the fag end of the family, and to dote
on Claud  the only brother, the heir, and at

last the head of the house. Claud had many
claims on these soft-hearted, soft-willed women,
rendered doubly soft, with their kindness not a
whit soured by the significant circumstance that
their father, the late laird of Birkencraig, had
been a tyrant of the first water, and had led
them as hard a life as extremely easy-going,
not at all thin-skinned women can be made to
lead, from youth to middle age. Claud was
the single 'man body' left in the family, the
chip of the old block qualified to take the reins
and drive those who needed and really loved
to be driven. He had been the puny petted
baby and the incorrigibly lazy, greedy, disobedient
schoolboy whom these fond women
combined to hang over, laugh at, pretend to
scold, and pull through his troubles.

The elder Miss Kirkpatricks could not find
serious fault with their idol for his graceless
speech, though, like most womanly women of
their age, they had both become decidedly

4 kirk-going,' joining in the exercises of religion
with relish and satisfaction, and entertaining a
proper respect  just tinged with aristocratic
patronage, and their latitudinarianism in other
matters  for their parish minister. The two
sisters contented themselves with looking in a
kind of admiring deprecation at their boy, who
had grown so manly, masterful, and like their
worthy father, just as the old-fashioned mother
may have looked at the son of whose big oaths
she said, with a little sigh, it was a hundred
pities they were a sin, for, no doubt, they
formed  a grand set-gaff ' to her laddie's con .
sensation.

Miss Kirkpatrick and Miss Lily compensated
for their breach of moral discipline in connection
with Claud by immediately assailing
Bruce  mildly enough still, to do the good-natured
women justice  on her breach of
social etiquette and good taste in dealing t\ with
the minister's name and attributes. ( \ on

VOL. II. L

must not call Mr. Baillie " Muckle Wat" any
longer, Brucie ' (Claud had been Claude too in
his time, but his sisters had long been warned
off from such an endearing liberty). ' Fie for
shame ! You must remember that he is not
only a minister, but our own minister. Indeed,
I wonder at you for letting your tongue slip,'
said Mary Kirkpatrick, as if her own tongue
had not an inveterate trick of the same kind.
It is such a bad example to set before servants
and common people.'

I don't set up for an example, I leave that
to you and Lily and Claud,' said Bruce, with
sarcastic emphasis. She had never undergone
the training which her sisters had passed
through from their father's despotism. It was
only a feeble, fitful despotism at the date at
which it did no more than brush Brucie's
skirts. She had got a good deal of her own
way, but had suffered quite as much from
neglect as from over-indulgence.

There was a singular mixture of earnest
regard and flaunted antagonism between Claud
and Bruce. The irritable, ungracious lad was
always hitting and snarling at her, yet he
secretly liked her very much, and was prouder
of his attractive, wild, witty, younger sister
than of anything else he could call his own.
Bruce was the only person at Birkencraig who
openly censured and defied the young laird,
and sometimes loudly railed at him. But there
was no lack of affection for him in her heart 
affection which continued to have that strain of
protection in it which loomed so largely in the
regard of the elder sisters. It was because she
in her turn loved him, that with her stronger,
more independent nature, far finer than theirs,
even in its warping, she was frequently intensely
vexed and mortified by him.

But for Claud there was the greatest possible
excuse. He never had been, and never
would be, well, in thorough soundness of body

L 2

and mind. For this reason, in a measure, lie
had received the most deplorably defective
education with which even a man in his
position can make shift. He was naturally
stupid, and under the merest surface-polish of
gentle birth and breeding, he proved essentially
and irredeemably a lout and boor. At the
same time he was not such a fool that he had
not a suspicion of his shortcomings. He was
hardly fit for much higher pursuits and associates
than those extremely undesirable ones,
he was fain to choose amidst the apologetic, half-smothered
disturbance of the elder Miss Kirkpatrickss,
and the unqualified wrath of their
fiery youngest sister.

I cannot change my manner of thinking
and speaking of Wat Baillie all of a sudden,'
Bruce was remonstrating carelessly, 'just because
he ties on a white choker and wags his
head in a pulpit. I am afraid he will never be
anything else to me than " Muckle Wat," the

ungainly, shock-headed son of the grieve at
Eintoul. He used to pull off his bonnet, make
a scrape of a bow, gape and stare and runaway,
when we drove over to inquire about
butter and eggs or corn for Claud's pigeons,
don't you remember, Lily ? His mother would
tell us long tiresome stories of her college-bred
son, whom she declared she would have been
much better pleased to see an honest ploughman,
as his father had begun the world, or at the
utmost another grieve, or a land measurer, or,
perhaps, a wheelwright, the two-faced woman !
He was making another " schule-fule " of his
sister Eachie. Then she would close her pompous
hypocritical complaints, for she was as
proud as a peacock all the time, by asking if
we had seen Wat's name in the newspaper in
the list of prizemen.'

6 My dear, you ought to forget all these old
stories,' counselled Lily hastily, ' particularly as
Mr. and Mrs. Baillie and Eachie  I mean

Miss Baillie  are coming to live with the
minister at the Manse, though I cannot say I
think that is a wise step. I doubt they will
impair his usefulness.'

A fine company they will make,' remarked
Claud, with a sneer, as if he himself were the
best of company. ' I wonder what their servants
will think of them ? ' as if he himself did not
prove a perpetual stumbling-block to the stiff,
pragmatical butler with whom even the old
laird had not ventured to trifle.

There is one question on which I have no
doubt,' said Bruce lightly, ' and that is, whether
or not the Manse will be troubled with my
company. Mrs. Baillie is a grumbling, conceited
old woman, and her husband, whom she is said
to keep under her thumb, is little better. Poor
Racine, who used to make my house-gowns, is
far preferable to the others, in spite of the
uncouth blueness of her stockings, and her

CD 7

painful bashfulness and incapacity for knowing

her own mind. But I say, Mary, Lily, won't it
be dreadfully awkward to have my old dressmaker
at dinner? Though she can solve a
problem in Euclid, which if Claud there  I
say nothing of the women present  were forced
to attempt, he would shoot himself in despair,
I am not at all clear about her knowledge of
the right use of a knife and fork, as it was
once taught in old-fashioned boarding-schools.
What a pity they don't exist still, for the .
benefit of the blundering shamefaced Teaches
who rise in the world! And shall we have
the ex-ploughman and his wife also for guests,
or shall we merely have to drink tea with them
when we are their son's guests at the Manse ?
It is quite a complicated social puzzle. The
minister ought to be immensely fascinating to
carry off such a load of detrimental.'

Hush, Bruce, you're very foolish,' said
Miss Kirkpatrick, again, launching her severest
censure. 'How can you ever hope to profit

by the young man's ministry when you laugh
at him through his relations ? I am sure you
heard what he could do in his trial sermons.
I grant if he had not been something quite
extraordinary in his gifts and graces, Lord
Brandon would not have been warranted in
giving the candidate this parish where his
origin is so well known, and where his father
and mother lived in such a very different
position.'

Then you approve of concealment, Mary ? '
Bruce turned upon her sister with a sparkle in
her eyes. ' You suppose the hole from which
Muckle Wat was dug could have been hidden,
and that he ought to have hidden it and introduced
himself to his people under false pretences
? '

'Child, I thought nothing about it,' the
pacific Mary defended herself quietly ; ' I only
said there was an awkwardness which Lord
Brandon might have avoided by another

presentation. But it would have been a great
loss to us to miss the chance of Wat  of young
Mr. Baillie. Why, they say he is already one
of the best preachers, as he promises to be a
leading man in the Church. We have always
stuck to the old Church of Scotland, and not
gone off to the English chapel, as so many like
us have gone. You know my father held
stoutly by his parish kirk, which he helped to
keep up.' Mary Kirkpatrick ended with pride
and pleasure in the fact she was recalling.
Whether the kirk would have held by him in
every instance, whether lie was any great
credit to it as a son, were other questions into
which the speaker had never presumed to
enter.

c Well, I mean to listen with all my might
to the new minister's super-excellent sermons
and to be very much edified by them,' said
Bruce cheerfully, ' but it will always be Muckle
Wat Baillie who is preaching  Muckle Wat

who was wont to wear suits of clothes of his
mother's making, and to stand up and recite
verses at the school feasts. How can I help it
when I have known the man all my life? The
leopard cannot change his spots, or the Ethiopian
his skin, and a great deal better for him
that he should not attempt the impossible.'

Go it, Bruce ! ' cried Claud, much as if he
were egging on a terrier at one of his rat-hunts
; ' we'll have some fun out of the dominie
and his belongings.'

No, we shan't,' exclaimed Bruce, turning
upon Claud with a flushed face and a curling
lip. ' If you have forgotten whose servant he
is, I haven't. Wat Baltic is a gentleman and
scholar, whatever his father is, and I believe
all the Bailies are very respectable people,
which is more than can be said for all the
Kirkpatricks, or, I daresay, for most families.
You could no more meet him on such grounds,
than I could meet Bachie on the footing of the

mathematics and philosophy which her brother
has taught her. And do you think I don't
value such acquirements, and the people who
have won them against heavy odds  as you
would say  though I laugh at them ? I can
tell you, Claud, I would cut off my right
hand willingly to see you with half the sense
and worth in your whole body which Wat
Baillie has in his little finger.'

Oh, go it again ! ' protested Claud. ' Just
like a woman, never two minutes in the same
mind  off at a tangent, safe to abuse a beggar
will make the opportunity if it does not'
offer itself handy.'

Come, come, Bruce, you are speaking
most unkindly and unbecomingly to your
brother ; ' and  How I wish you children would
not quarrel, though you don't mean it,' remonstrated
both the elder sisters in a breath.

c We do mean it  at least I do, for his
good,' insisted Bruce, calming down a little at

the same time, and speaking wistfully, almost
sadly. ' Nobody tells Claud the truth except
me. All I wanted to say further, was, that the
new minister's people are our people  Claud's
people ; and Wat Baillie is, as Lily said, our
minister by this time, duly appointed by the
laws of the Church. In sober earnest we are
bound to stand by him  in public especially,
though we may not be able to help laughing a
little among ourselves.' This was said with
restored good humour, and Bruce went on to
explain in a friendly way, ' I am going to swell
the congregation at the Ordination, when I
promise you, Claud, I shall be on my best
behaviour. The assurance will be a relief to
Mary and Lily there. I cannot make up my
mind beforehand to be devote like a Frenchwoman,
but I hope I shall not disgrace the
training of my elders. I was so angry with
that London girl who is living with the Kennedyss
for asking me if I was going to chequer.

Think of it, the man a minister in God's
house ! She did not mean it, of course, but
even to say it ! I was so ashamed, so furious ! I
am not so bad as that, I hope, though old Nanny
at the Toll-bar believes I am not converted
yet, but have still to get grace,' Bruce confided
to the others, with a shade of awe in the middle
of her candour. ' When I am converted she
thinks I shall be as staid and solemn as she is.
I shall have given over all my pranks and nonsense,
and renounced the vanities of the world,
such as balls, dancing parties, lawn tennis, lunching
with the sportsmen on the moors, going to '
the meet, being present at a curling match, or
on a skating rink. As if we had too great a
variety of amusements, and too many of them ! '
reflected Bruce ruefully, ' in a neighbourhood
where we are more likely to stagnate than to
run riot. You tell me there was more doing
when you two were young '  Bruce addressed
her sisters with regret, well-nigh reproach. ' I

am sure I wish I had lived a little earlier, so
that I too might have had my share, my day,
till I was converted, if Nanny is right. I suppose
the reason of the better times was because
there were so many of us at home then, and
poor papa was alive and could practise hospitality,
since he moved in a good set  one that
the women of the family could enter without
disparagement  different from what Claud,
here, chooses to cultivate.'

Do you suppose I am to choose my friends
to suit the convenience and serve the ends of a
parcel of women  a pair of old maids and a
chit of a girl ? ' growled Claud. ' You may be
obliged to me for allowing you house-room.'

Bruce was not listening to him, otherwise
very likely she would have told him that he
had only to say the word and she, for one of
his sisters, would be ready to quit the house 
which had been her father's house, in which
she had been born  the next da v.

I cannot account for the dulness of the
neighbourhood in any other way,' she continued
to ponder moodily, ' unless all the
more spirited people have been driven out of
it by the supineness of the rest. But I fully
intend to be loyal to the new minister '  she
returned to her sheep at a bound  ' and I am
going to shake hands with him in token of it.
It is rather odd that I never shook hands with
him before. I remember he had great horny
palms like his father's once. !Now, for I
watched them in the pulpit, they are too white
and soft for a gentleman's hands ; but his ears '
are the same. Oh ! don't you recollect, Claud,
we fancied they were like the handles of a
trunk, that he could be lifted up by them, and
that possibly his mother did lift and shelve him
when she found him in the way.'

Bruce laughed with the greatest glee at
the childish simile and the deduction drawn
from it, which awoke an unwilling echo of

merriment from her sisters, even a reluctant
snigger from Claud. He qualified the compliment,
however, by the impatient disdainful
remark, ' What rot you do talk, Bruce ! '

CHAPTER II.

WAT BAILLIE'S INDUCTION.

Birkenbarxs Kirk was plain, not ugly, thanks
to the fact that the building dated back to a
time when masons did their work intelligently
and thoroughly, with care for every stone and
pride in every line. It was a simple, very
solid and enduring grey kirk and tower, both
plentifully powdered with the rich orange of
lichens, and ivied here and there to perfection.
Kirk, kirk-yard, and manse were all peacefully
situated in the ' how ' or hollow of the craisr
which was a distinctive feature of the neighbourhood,
and in conjunction with the  birds '
which used to flourish there, like those far-vol.
ir. M

famed trees of Abernethy, lent its name to
Claud Kirkpatrick's estate. The How of Bird
was shallower and wider than a
den or glen, and seemed to exist in opposition
to the Bow of Birkenbarns, where the ground
gently rose again, like a slightly rounded arch,
forming a rising ground from which the sojourners
commanded a view of the rest of the
parish at their feet. Both were sweet, homely,
rural places.

On the day of the minister's induction the
kirk was crammed, presenting a sea of faces,
mostly ruddy or weather-stained, from ' loft '
to floor, from wall to wall.

The induction ended a series of ceremonies
conducted with a curiously quaint mixture of
solemn earnestness and half-stately, half primitive
festivity within bounds. Following on
the licensing of the preacher  an early event 
there was the ordination of the minister by
a presbytery of brother-ministers instead of a

father-bishop. This included an ordination
dinner, where toasts were pledged and blunders
drunk  all within the strict limits of sobriety,
with the usual studied formality and comical
self-importance, as well as the simple, almost
boyish, hilarity of such banquets.

Finally, there was the induction or introduction
to the pulpit, and the taking
formal possession of it by its owner. As
the last ceremony w r as always held on a
Sabbath-day,' it implied the attendance of
the working people, whose labours for their
daily bread debarred them, unless they enjoyed
exceptional privileges or practised great self-denial,
from being present at the ordination.
In Scotland dissent is not the feature of a
class to the same extent that it is in England,
and where the peculiarity is found it is among
the tradespeople of towns rather than in rural
districts. The more or less pronounced popular
election of the minister, even under the

M 2

Patronage Act, together with the circumstance
that, as in the Eornan Catholic Church, he is
not infrequently peasant-born, gives every
sturdy ploughman and stiff hedger and ditcher
an interest in the event. Indeed he is not slow
to announce that he, no less than his social
superiors, has a soul to be saved, and that
it may even be of more consequence to him,
nailed largely to the same spot of earth, and
with fewer sources of enlightenment, that he
should have a wise and godly leader, according
to the pilgrim's judgment, to show him
the road to heaven. Therefore the congregation
assembled to witness Wat Baillie's induction
ranged through several ranks with the
natural predominance of the lower and more
numerous grades. There was still here and
there a descendant of Douce Davie Deans with
his high mysticism, stern asceticism, and
worldly sagacity. Unfortunately for the picturesquely
of the scene he had dropped

his broad blue bonnet and assumed a rusty
chimney-pot hat. In the same way he had
lost many a strong poetic phrase, while he no
longer wrestled  ' wasted ' he would have
called it  for the restoration and full performance
of the Solemn League and Covenant. But
the essentials of the old covenanter were in
him to this day.

There was also Davie's double, an equally
dangerous person to assail or defy. It has
been suggested that from the times of the
apostles clergymen have suffered greatly at
the hands of ' old wives ' and ' honourable
women.' Perhaps if these could be heard in
their own defence they would have something
to say of the wiles and snares of young
women, and women not honourable, but that
argument is foreign to the present subject.
There is a kind of female doctor of theology,
who, if not confined to Scotland, is a marked
product of the soil, and flourishes abundantly

in it. With some fine qualities of her own,
she is also apt to be domineering, narrow,
and dogmatic to the last degree, an ultra-calvinist,
rigidly orthodox, strong on the points
of election and grace, and resolute in condemning
the large proportion of the human
race to destruction, for the glory of God. By
natural force of character, and as a result
of her undeniable virtues, she exercises considerable
influence over her neighbours, and
if she is not the minister's ardent adherent,
she is likely to prove his formidable foe She
is Mause Hearing unscathed by the fires
of persecution. For that very reason she is
less high-mettled and slightly vulgarised, but
many of the elements of the original survive
in the unconscious copy.

When found in the humbler class in the
parish of Birkenbarns, the modern Mause was
more conservative in the matter of dress than
the successor of Davie Deans showed himself.

She clung to her great white mutch, which
was, in fact, a modified version of the old
matronly curch, though she now wore it ' at
kirk and at market' under a black poke
bonnet, In a similar fashion she stuck to
her plaid shawl, which is the sole surviving
remnant of the tartan screen, once universal
among the peasant women of Scotland. Like
the old heroic Mause, the dauntless old wife of
the nineteenth century commonly retained her
Cudclie, her big, blate, soft-headed, soft-hearted
son or grandson, who, though torn different
ways, and walking with reluctant feet, still
followed the c auld mither ' dutifully.

Undistinguished by what may be termed
historical traits, there were, as Wat Baillie
might have been thankful, other sweeter,
humbler, nobler types of character. There
were ' sonsy ' modest upright and reverent
hard-working women, young and old, in whose
scheme of life their minister figured largely,

whose sole recurring holiday, with scarcely an
exception, was the ' Sabbath-day ' and its-cherished
employment ' diets of worship.' There
were manly, sensible, God-fearing men, quiet
for the most part, but who could fight like
lions in what they regarded as the cause of
righteousness. It goes without saying that
there were likewise specimens of stupidity,
rudeness, and flippancy belonging to every
rank, in the parish of Birkenbarns. Many
of these were present on the day of the
minister's induction for the express purpose of
picking holes in his coat and recalling all that
was contemptible and ludicrous, in their estimation,
in his past difficulties and struggles.
Mocking eyes would search for the negro
peculiarity of his ears  the only negro attribute
he had  and listen diligently for any-faint
flavour of peasant speech, in addition to
the breadth of accent, which did not strike
the natives, in his terse yet flexible and

wonderfully pure Saxon English. The hyper-critics
would watch for whatever answered to
the dropping of an c h, 5 or the intrusion of an
r ' on the tongue of a subject of the kingdom
of Cockaigne, in the plebeian slurring or
mouthing of consonants.

Wat did not take possession of his pulpit
till the second diet of worship on the drizzling
February afternoon, the inclemency of which
had not kept back a single adherent of Birken-
barns kirk. In the morning a clerical friend
acted as herald, prayed the extemporaneous
prayers, read and gave out the well-chosen
appropriate chapters and psalms, and preached
the sermon for the occasion. All were pointed
at the individual who, without levity, might
be called the hero of the day, sitting, much
stared at, and drooping his head somewhat,
among his kindred in the principal square seat
at the side of the pulpit. There was also a
reference to the minor heroes and heroines 

the parishioners, who were to dwell thenceforth
with Wat in close and, it was to be hoped,
beneficial alliance. The speaker, while sparing
the modesty of his friend, and dealing discreetly
with what his own experience told
him must be the prevailing merits and defects
of the mass of hearers, contrived to accomplish
two purposes. He pronounced an encomium
on the new minister, the honours he had won
at college, especially the credit with which he
had passed through his divinity course and
the zeal he had evinced as a volunteer assistant
to a hard-worked city missionary.
The veteran also uttered a sufficiently pointed
exhortation to the lay brethren to do their
part as a faithful flock, strengthening the hands
of their minister by their prayers and cooperation
in good works, giving honour to
whom honour was due, and refraining from
censorious criticism and refractory opposition.
The afternoon was Wat Baillie's time. He

walked in his Geneva gown, unsupported save
that lie was followed by his beadle, who opened
and shut the door of the pulpit for him, from
the vestry into the church, up one of the side
aisles, facing the mixed multitude. He was
transfixed by the challenge of the glittering
blue eyes of the Davie Deans' and Mause Head
riggs, touched and humbled by the respectful
admiring 'gaze of lowlier saints, and chilled fora
second by the stony stare and gibing glances
of the indifferent, the feather-headed, and the
already hostile among his flock.

Wat Baillie was a comely giant in his
clerical costume, though the imperfections of
his outer man extended to more than his hands
and ears. He was heavily and rather clumsily
built, in a largeness which lent ponderousness
as well as force to his physique, and
bestowed on his person when it was out of its
sphere in the pulpit, or at the desk, a certain
elephantine colossalness of proportion that

would have been much less trying, and more
becoming, to a middle-aged than to a young
man. Notwithstanding he was handsome on
a great scale, and had something of the simple
air and tone of the best society. For he had not
only been tutor when he was little more than a
lad to families in a position which implies hereditary
refinement, and had stayed at universities
both at home and abroad, on terms of equality
with his fellow-students, he had done what was
really more to the purpose, he had kept the
cream of company by living habitually with
high thoughts and generous intentions. He
enjoyed a singular exemption from self-consciousness
for a man who had in common
parlance risen in the world. This advantage,
which could hardly be over-rated  whether
for his own dignity and peace, or for the profit
which others might derive from associating
with him  was due to the single-heartiness
of the man, his devotion to the noblest

calling, and his comparative freedom from
vanity.

Perhaps the strongest evidence of Wat
Baillie's extraction survived in an inclination to
put an undue stress  not on his own gains, but
on the boons to which others had been born.
He had a lingering homeliness, and  what was
born of it and might be an inadvertent protest
and guard against it  a slight formality and elaborateness
of manner in social intercourse.
These traits, while they checked, did not
always balance or control each other. The
last, which is old-fashioned when met with in a
young man, is then generally traceable to such
an experience as the Eeverend Wat had undergone.
In his case, his walk and conversation
were so widely apart from sententiousness,
priggishness, and pomposity, he was so perfectly
unassuming and genuinely friendly, that
there was nothing repellant in the flowering of
frost in his air and, address, though as a protection

to a half-polished diamond which might
betray what remained of its roughness, the
frost was liable to melt away at any moment.
When the measured deliberate tone was intact,
it added to the meek stateliness still to be
found in some of the clergymen of his church,
very much in proportion to the depth of their
consecration and the primitiveness of their
practice.

On his induction-day Wat Baillie preached
a good sermon, in which he declared his desire
to be a true servant to his Master and His
people. He disarmed the more honest and
generous of his critics. If it cannot be said
that the coarse, dull, and spiteful atoms who
came to scoff remained to pray, it may be
safely asserted that the inclination to carp and
jeer was rebuked for the moment in the hearers
who hearkened to an earnest man forgetting
himself in his. office, or, if he remembered his
personality, recalling it simply as that of an

ambassador sworn to be faithful, a brother
bound to be tender.

Bruce Kirkpatrick, in her dark ulster and
sealskin cap, sat very still, and gave her whole
attention to her teacher  rather than her
priest, as he is recognised among his independent,
pugnacious country people, protestant
of Protestants, reformed of Reformers. The
only time that her spirit waxed hot within her
and became stirred to anything like strife  and
the strife did not happen to be with Wat
Baillie  was when she discovered Claud sleeping
heavily in his corner of the pew in the front
of the gallery. But she bethought herself that
the day was murky, and the crowded church
close, that poor Claud had no ' turn ' for mundane,
not to say heavenly eloquence, any more
than for poetry, painting, or music, and would
dose through an electioneering address, or nod
over an after-dinner speech, as impartially as
at a sermon. So she forgave him, and let

him slumber in peace, relinquishing her first
rash indignant impulse to dare startling him,
and risk his swearing aloud in church by surreptitiously
tilting her silver-mounted bible
full on his toes, or digging one of its sharp
corners right into the side next her. Bruce
grew more and more serious, with a sweet
seriousness that calmed and softened as well as
sobered her fresh young face.

But as no prophet is without honour save
in his own country and in his own house, so
about the least affected of the congregation
present at Wat Baillie's induction without even
the reservation of such sleepers as Claud Kirkpatrick,
were the minister's father and mother.
They were truly a dogmatic self-sufficient pair.
The mother in whose breast the weeping blood
of hero-worship ought to have predominated,
was like good wine fermented to vinegar, considerably
the tarter and the more self-asserting
of the two. The couple took the entire credit

of their son's really remarkable attainments,
unblemished character, and sweet and modest
temper. Wat was what they had made him.
If they had not set him the best example,
where would he have been ? Who had toiled
and pinched themselves to defray his first
schooling? Who had cared for his highest
well-being as they had cared all along ? They
were not going to let Wat assert himself, throw
off their yoke, and perhaps look down upon
them before everything was done. They would
show him still that they were his father and
mother whom he was bound to honour, to
whom it was his duty to give place. It was
all very well for strangers  scholars and dignitaries
or not  to set store on Wat and make
much of him, enough to turn the lad's head,
but there were people still more to be considered
and deferred to, to wit, Tammas Baillie
and his wife Kate, who were Wat's parents and
superiors to whom he owed everything.
VOL. II. N

The parental despotism would not have been
lovely in any case, and would still have cast a
slur on the boundless self-sacrifice, the limitless
self-forgetfulness, the tender pride and touching
joy of the true father and mother's heart, but
at least there would have been a shade of
excuse for it, if Wat had been an undutiful,
even a careless son, instead of the most loyal,
forbearing, and considerate of men-children.
Some of his admiring and attached friends were
provoked as at a positive weakness by the
Grand, faithful reverence and submission he
paid to his father and mother, on all points
which did not interfere with conscientious obligations.
These friends ventured to remonstrate
with the victim, and received such an
answer, though Wat Baillie was one of the
gentlest, as lie was one of the manliest, of his
kind, that they never thus offended again.

Kachie, or Rachel Baillie, atoned for the
deficiency in hero-worship of the rest of the

family. That was the proudest day of her life,
if she could but have forgotten her own disqualifications
for being the minister's sister,
going to stay with him in the manse, ' hand-idle
' except, of course, for assisting her mother
in the housekeeping  a lady, and ; gude sakes ! r
she was very unlike a lady  till something else
happened. She listened to her brother's voice
as if it had been the voice of an angel. She
thought there was only one other occupation
in the world that approached in glory, delight
and huge profit to hearing Wat preach, and
that was reading with him as he had trained
her from earliest girlhood to read and understand
the classics, and relish ancient and
modern philosophy to the pitch of metaphysics.


Eachie had a great share of Wat's solid
abilities ; she was intelligent, and profoundly
diligent and patient. She took a real pleasure
in rendering a difficult passage and solving a

N 2

hard problem along with Wat. She was the
best and most faithful of helpers and sympathisers
; but she shone only by reflected
light, she had not a grain of originality in her.
She was proud and pleased to be the companion
of her brother studies, but apart from
the companionship, she had neither pride nor
pleasure in the attainments which made the
association possible. She would hardly even
have cared to pursue independently what she still
called her ' lessons,' any more than she would
ever have carried out, without the previous
necessity of earning her living, the calling of a
dressmaker, to which she had served an apprenticeship,
in which, in spite of her personal
ungainliness and awkwardness, she had
acquired considerable proficiency. For a mind
so large and well stored as Eachie's could not
fail altogether in a comprehension of just proportions
with the beauty and harmony which
are their result. Unfortunately, these fair proportions

were not to be found either in Eaehie's
bodily or mental composition. Wat, who had
no brother and no other sister, had always been
fondly attached to the great, uncouth, daunted
girl, over whom her mother tyrannised. He
had craved for his sister's sympathy in his
cherished pursuits, and he had made her a
prodigy of learning for a woman. But it was
rather a monstrous prodigy, for he had not
been equal to shaping and suiting lier knowledge
to her sex and circumstances. Of course
he had been incapable of supplying her with
any womanly graces and accomplishments, so
that Eachie remained a gawky as well as a
scholar. Eachie felt all these defects in addition
to her personal lack of good looks, far
more keenly than she entertained any gratifying
sense of mental superiority, though she loved
learning both for Wat's sake and its own. Indeed,
she was rather ashamed than elated by a
distinction which removed her in yet another

respect from her girlish contemporaries, which
her sharp-tongued mother treated with the
utmost derision in finding fault with Eachie's
constant nervous blunders in Mrs. Baillie's department
as housekeeper.

Eachie, it need hardly be said, had all the
miserable self consciousness which was absent
from Wat. She was not less single-hearted,
but she had no grand engrossing office such as
his to support her. And she had much of that
latent vanity which, when it proceeds from an
anxious desire to please and a longing for
approbation, is an amiable if not a very dignified
weakness, and is often enough found in
gentle natures. Poor Eachie's, in place of
being an exultant and aggressive vanity, was a
vanity very much wounded and crushed, causing
her to creep about, even on the day of her
triumph, in a humble deprecating fashion,
rendering the timidity and vacillation attendant
on her unbalanced faculties still more marked,

and threatening to sow in her naturally artless,
kindly-disposed nature, baleful seeds of
suspicion, jealousy, and contention.

In person Eachie was a complete caricature
of her brother. She, too, was big, with a sort
of blurring out bigness both in figure and face
a large, unfinished-looking woman, who appeared
as if her clothes  of good material and
not ill-made  were still no better than a sack,
in which she was tied. She had a face heavy
in outline and muddled in complexion, though
it possessed a certain pathos in the large soft
mouth  like that of the sphinx  and the mild,
perplexed, protesting eyes.

At the end of the service, the minister who
had preached in the morning mounted the
pulpit steps again, and sat down for a few
seconds beside his brother like two doves in a
dove-cote, while the congregation remained in
agreeable expectation. Then the experienced
gentleman rose and delivered a smiling announcement

that the minister of Birkenbarns
meant, according to custom, to take his stand
presently by the kirk-door, and would feel happy
to shake hands with those of his parishioners
who had yet to make his acquaintance, or who
wished to exchange a friendly greeting with
him on this momentous occasion. Accordingly,
in a few minutes the minister was to be seen
with his clerical supporter and one or two
influential friends among the members of the
congregation who had in technical phrase
6 given and sustained his call,' arranged conveniently
round the church door. There the
crowd pressing out, paused for a moment and
surged round the group that toddling childhood,
blushing youth, staid manhood and
womanhood and venerable age, might exchange
a genial recognition which had also something
of an act of homage. For the man or the woman
who put his hard or soft palm into the

minister's did him fealty and gave him the
pledge of a loyal subject.

Claud Kirkpatrick half-lounged, half-slunk
off in the small minority that declined the
pledge ; but Bruce followed closely on her
sisters in availing herself of the privilege of
shaking hands with her minister.

The Eeverend Wat's usual serenity was
considerably impaired at this moment by his
anxiety to show no respect to persons, to overlook
nobody, to express his unfeigned gratitude
for the general confidence, or what was styled
the unanimity of his call,' with his warm interest
in return in all the innumerable varying
concerns which occupied and moulded the
humanity around him. For he was fully persuaded
that if he could not enter into the great
mass of these concerns, understand their essence,
and shape his ministrations accordingly,
his presence there would be worse than useless.

His cheeks burned with crimson, his eyes  not
large, but ordinarily clear, calm, restful eyes 
were troubled and flickering in their positive
eagerness to see enough and say enough. His
mouth, that was wont to be placid under the
moustache which modern fashion allows in
ministers of the kirk, worked a little in the
smile which had a passionate though neither a
spasmodic nor a galvanised character. His
hands, of which Bruce had said that they had
become too white and soft for the hands of a
gentleman  doubtless she meant a country
gentleman  had the veins standing out, and
trembled a little as they exchanged clasp after
clasp with horny hands, flaccid fingers, small
round fists thrust doubled on the minister's
acceptance. His carriage was habitually erect
and firm, without any scholarly bend, since he
had gone in with his day for muscular development,
and had cut a creditable figure in university
sports ; but on this occasion he stooped

and swayed a little from the exigencies of the
situation, and still more impelled by the agitation
within him.

The two elder Misses Kirkpatrick thanked
their minister glibly for his excellent sermon,
and hoped he would often come down to
Birkencraio-.

Well meant and sincere as the words were,
they jarred on the ear. It was not an entirely
suitable speech in the circumstances. It broke
the spell, and introduced something commonplace
into the greeting. Birkencraig was not
their house, as the ladies ought to have recollected.
It belonged to Claud, who was at that
moment shirking the interchange of salutations
with the minister. Lastly, there was a suspicion
of comparatively harmless but inveterate patronage
in the invitation.

Wat Baillie had a perception of these objections,
but did not care to analyse them, and
forgot them in the very act of responding, with

his not altogether ungraceful or unpleasant
shade of suave stiffness, to the courtesy of the
ladies. His father and mother had served
them formerly. He had looked up reverently
to their not too superabundant claims when he
was a boy. The two fair mature sisters were
well-nigh old enough to ' mother ' him, in the
kindly English phrase.

It was Bruce who felt the jar painfully for
Wat Baillie. She wished to say something
different from herself, but the only words that
came to her lips on a moment's notice, formed
themselves into the most conventional of
phrases, ' I am glad to see you, Mr. Baillie
Then she added as a slight improvement, with
more meaning in her tone, looking up in his
face with the friendly, fearless eyes, in which
there was not a grain of coquetry, though sure
enough its seeds were in her, but coquetry at'
such a time would have seemed to her the next

thing to profanity, i I am glad to have been
here to-day ! '

That is good of you,' he answered with
sudden frankness, in another tone than that he
had used to her sisters.

CHAPTEE III.

THE MISSES KIRKPATRICK's VISIT TO MRS. AND
MISS BAILLIE, WITH THE TALK WHICH CAME
OF IT.

Claud did not choose to call on the minister,
or to invite him to dinner, or, in short, to do
anything which might have been expected from
a worthy, courteous young laird who had his
binding duties as w r ell as his selfish amusements.
Claud cared for nothing save the last  with
some of which the minister, if he did not keep
his place, in Claud's estimation, and mind his
own business and his interest, might meddle a
little.

It was not probable that the Eeverend Twould

approve of the petty annual races, with
their not too petty concomitant of vices, which
the young gentleman was determined to revive ;
or that the clergyman would not disapprove of
the ancient, extravagant, indiscriminate patronage
of ale-houses and taverns which Claud, sofar
as his example went on all public occasions,
such as ploughing-matches, masonic and club
meetings, crow and pigeon shootings, &c, &c,
seemed anxious to restore also. The minister's
mind and Claud's were not likely to be in
unison on the comparative offences of poaching
and betting ; and as Wat Baillie was the older
man by half-a-dozen years, and was now invested
with the dignity of office, though it was
only that of the parish minister, which he
would be all the more tempted to exalt because
he had risen to its rank, he might take it upon
him to admonish one of his own heritor. The
idea filled the lad  who was morally, though not
physically, a coward  with aversion and disgust,

and he made up his mind to keep out of the
way of his spiritual adviser as much as possible.
The master of Birkeneraig therefore resisted
with more steadiness than usual  for he was
not steady even in self-will his sisters' entreaties
and persuasions, emphasised on Bruce's
part by silent scorn. He maintained that if he
went to the kirk occasionally when he felt well
enough of a Sunday morning, put his shilling
into the plate, so saving the funds of the kirk
session, and contributed half-a-crown extra to
each collection, thus maintaining the liberal
character of the parish, and the implied energy
and influence of the minister, lie did well, all
that could be looked for from him, and Baillie
ought to feel much obliged to him. Let the
fellow call on the women, with whom his coat
had a natural affinity, if there was to be any
calling done. Claud would see the minister at
Jericho, and farther, before he put himself
about to go over to the manse and hob-nob

with the old grieve of Eintoul and his long-tongued
wife and their ugly ogress of a
daughter.

The Misses Kirkpatrick had to give in, and
since afternoon teas were only a recent
institution in the parish, and not quite suitable
to the climate, they had to resign the natural
and agreeable obligation of entertaining the
minister. . Indeed, to invite him to that or any
other light meal over which women presided,
instead of to a substantial regular dinner, after
Claud had complied with the form of at least
leaving his card, did not so much as occur .
to the hospitably but conventionably-minded
women. A tea with an ample allowance of
jam, or for that matter, a bit of bread and
cheese in the housekeeper's room, might have
been good enough for Wat Baillie long ago.
Nay, ordained English curates might condescend
to be. regaled at banquets of a strictly feminine
character, but for a placed minister of the

VOL. IT.

Church of Scotland, his hostesses' parish
minister, other treatment was called for.

The elder Misses Kirkpatrick solaced themselves
by c paying their respects ' at the manse.
Easy to please as the ladies were in general,
the utter unsuitability of all, save one of the
Baillie family, for their promotion, made a
deep impression on the visitors, who were not
without the feeling on their own account that
they had endured a species of mild martyrdom
in the cause of religion, by lending themselves
to the anomaly.

c Think of the old wife's wearing a black
net cap, to save the washing doubtless ! And
did you notice how Tammas wriggled Iris
arms after he came into what they call the
drawing-room, with its worsted damask and
coarse rosewood ? You may depend upon it,
he had been sitting in his shirt sleeves, though
he came out of the dining-room.'

The garrulous women had caught hold of

Bruce on their return, and detained her to
tell her all about the visit. They were so
eager to open their budget, that they did not
wait to take off their bonnets and wraps, but
sat  Lily getting over-heated in her fur cloak,
and Mary tearing her veil under the necessity
of getting rid of it.  in the dim fire-light and
breathless atmosphere of the Birkencraig .
It was a room of fair size, with a
motley style of its own. It had the large windows
of the second last fashion, but these were
so much shrouded as to let in little light and
air. They had Venetian blinds, which Miss
Kirkpatrick persisted in regarding with complacency
as recent costly ingenious inventions
that could not be too highly prized by
reason of the aristocratic distinction they conferred
on a country-house  like an escutcheon
on the occasion of a death in the family, and
the saving they would eventually effect in
preventing the fading of the carpet and wine
2

do w- curtains. Whereas at Birkencraig the
crimson carpet had long been faded into a
most artistically dirty red, while the heavy
satin curtains, which kept out a little more of
the smile and breath of heaven, were equally
subdued in their dulness. The fire was maintained
there nearly all the year round. Where
the space was not already fully occupied by little
tables, screens, flower-stands, and foot-stools,
the joint pet possessions of Mary and Bruce,
there was sure to be found in broad day two
or three of Lily's dog-baskets and cat-cradles.

'Why does not the minister provide a
parlour for the old couple ? ' Mary continued.
6 He might give up the study to them and
take the dining-room, which is a much better
room  a good room, and would hold the
minister's book-cases and writing-table as well
as the dining-tables.'

4 You don't know Wat Baillie if you
imagine he would bid his father and mother

take the second best in bis house said Bruce,
who was listening to the accounts of the doings
at the manse with lively interest. ' You certainly
do not know Mrs. Baillie and her
Tammas if you think they would submit to
be sent into the back-ground.'

'Then they are standing in their son's
light,' said Lily emphatically ; ' they are refusing
to do what I for one should not mind
doing, if it would be of any use to Claud,
who is only my brother and the laird, neither
my son nor my minister.'

6 And much gratitude Claud shows you for
your self-suppression,' said Bruce quickly,
'while the minister never ceases to thank his
father and mother for the favour they do him
by living with him and keeping him out of
his own. Do you know they sit the one at
the head and the other at the foot of his
table, while he is content to sit with Bachie
at the side ? '

It is a perfect shame and disgrace exclaimed
Miss Kirkpatrick, much stirred by
this new scandalous piece of information, which
Bruce had picked up in her sisters' absence.
6 Somebody ought to interfere and put a stop
to it. I would not mind speaking to the
minister myself. '

'Better not, Mary,' Bruce advised. 'Do
you know what he said to Lowrie Wilson,
whom he has taken for his man, when Lowrie
ventured to hint it was a pity  just for the
look of the thing, it was against the minister's
position and Lowrie's position as the minister's
man  that old Mr. Baillie should yoke himself
into the harrows and be seen harrowing the
glebe like a beast of burden, as he used, when
he was a ploughman, to harrow the " rigs "at
Eintoul. Lowrie might have said also it
was to be regretted that Mrs. Baillie should
lay out the clothes on the washing-green, as
I saw her through the hedge, laying them

out with the assistance of Bachie, when I
passed the manse yesterday. It was Lowrie's
wife who told me about the harrows and
her man's ineffectual remonstrance, and about
everything else, when she came up this afternoon
to see Lizzie in the dairy.'

'You don't mean to compare me and the
weight of my opinion to Lowrie Wilson and
his impertinent officiousness ? ' remonstrated
Mary, slightly nettled.

6 1 don't know,' replied Bruce candidly and
"dubiously ;  I am sure Muche Wat Baillie is
no respecter of persons. I believe he would
not be less polite to Lowrie than to you, and
that except for your being a woman a good
deal older than himself, he might be inclined
to take his servant's interference better than
yours.'

6 Nonsense, Bruce ; but you have never
told us what the minister said to Lowrie.'

That it was his fathers pleasure to

harrow the field, so that though, for his part
he would rather the old man did not fatigue
himself, still neither he nor any other body
had the slightest call to interfere.'

Well, I never ! ' cried Lily, in a juvenile
exclamation which was a favourite with her.
The man is infatuated ; now you need not
preach any longer to me about allowing the
bits of dogs to take liberties, when a grown up
man, the minister of a parish, lets his own
father and mother, two common forward old
bodies, go over the crown of his head

'You could not complain of Eachie's forwardness
P ' suggested Bruce.

'Oh, no ; Kachie is only too backward,
and as silly as her brother on some points.
But he would not suffer her to carry round
the salver with the wine-glasses ; he took
them from her and handed them himself.
By the way, he knocked a glass over, and
there was such a commotion. If you will

believe me, Bruce, he begged his mother's
pardon in return for her telling him the accident
was just like him. A " cast " wineglass,
not worth sixpence ! '

When had we wine offered to us on a
call before, Mary ? In a minister's house, too,
where the host and hostess ought to be glad
of any change of fashion that is an excuse
for greater economy and temperance. I wonder
what Mrs. Grey would say if she could
come back, she who was the thriftiest woman,
making the most show in the parish ! She
was entitled to both thrift and show, since
her father had to live on his half-pay ; while
the family moved in the best society, and she
lived to see her brother a K.C.B., and to
give him his summer quarters at the manse.'

Touts ! what do the Bailies know about
the fashion, unless it be the minister ; and he is
not noticing  he is engaged with his own business,
ashe ought to be  the fine young man.'

4 To be sure, too, the wine was currant, and
would go to nobody's head, if it did not injure
the stomach. I was afraid it might be bad
port. Common people fly to port whenever
they can procure wine,' reflected Mary. ' But
I hope they will not bring it out to Claud
when he makes his call, in case he should say
he prefers spirits, which are not good for him
in the morning any more than sour currant
wine  I declare, as sour as raspberry vinegar,'
ended the speaker, but not before there had
been a little fall in her voice and flutter of
her eyelids as at a covert reluctant allusion
which she was fain to conceal by a flow of
words.

Why don't you say at once, Mary, when
there are only we three together, that Claud
takes a great deal more strong drink than is
good for him, and is destroying his only chance
of growing up. into better health ? ' said Bruce,
almost sternly, in her youthful austerity of

truth-speaking and impatience of wrong-doing,
to which she had not the least temptation.

Bruce, Bruce, I do not know where your
tongue will lead you,' remonstrated Mary.

How can you be so hard upon your
brother ? ' chimed in Lily piteously. ' If you
knew the drinking that went on in the days
our grandfather, even you would consider
poor, dear Claud quite moderate and temperate.'


I know very well,' said Bruce, resentful
with lingering childishness that she should be
supposed unacquainted with anything within
her sisters' scope ; ' but men are not expected
to make fiends and beasts of themselves as they
did a hundred years ago. I do not fancy there
are even many such sots as were quietly
tolerated within the last fifty years. But that
is no reason why Claud, who is more easily
hurt than any other person, should drink more
than is good for him still.'

You are a girl, Brucie ; you do uot make
allowance for a man  a young man.'

I do not see why a young man should
need allowance made for him any more thana
young woman should need it. What is his
strength given him for ?  though I do not say
poor Claud is strong,' with a little relenting in
her tone. 'But why should he take what is
bad for him, besides making him stupid and
horrid,' bracing herself again to righteous indignation
the next moment. ' Why should he not
be like Wat Baillie, for instance  not caring
greatly whether he drinks water or treacle
beer, or twopenny ale or the bad port which
Mary says the class he comes from are so fond
of when they can get wine ? He is as utterly
incapable as we women of abusing either
whisky, or brandy, or absinthe, or noyau, or
any of the abominations which Claud makes
Nicol put into the liqueur-bottles.'

Oh, you little goose!' said Mary, moved

to laughter at her sister's folly. c Wat Baillie
is come of a different stock, and he is a
minister.'

Well for him,' insisted Bruce. c There are
some gentlemen who are a disgrace to the
name  Lord Sandy, for instance ; the worst of
the horse-dealers are not half so low and
despicable. It was mean of Claud and him to
go, under cloud of night, to the wild-beast shows
and the penny dance at the Martinmas market
in Sauchope.'

Child, you ought not to meddle with such
things,' interrupted Mary hastily. ' Lord Sandy
is a bad boy ; but the dance was a young man's
frolic. Goodness ! Lily, how many such have
not you and I heard of ? '

Lily laughed a little too, shaking her head.

c It was mean,' cried Bruce, becoming
only the more exasperated because of what she
regarded as her sisters' Laodicean or Sadducean
tolerance of the people and events that were

fixed up with Claud's misdoings. 'What
business have men any more than women with
such frolics ? If Lord Sandy and Claud could
go and romp with the boldest and giddiest
daughters and sisters of ploughmen and carters,
what should hinder me from romping with the
most audacious and disrespectful ploughmen
and carters ? " Shocking'' do you say, Mary ?
Of course it is shocking. But there is not one
law for men and another for women. I say all
that was bad enough  a most impertinent
liberty taken with working people, which the
most careless among ourselves would resent
bitterly if they retaliated and tried to do the
same where we were concerned. But if Claud
were base and heartless enough to behave to
any poor girl as they say Lord Sandy lias acted
to the mole-catcher's wretched daughter, I  I
believe I could never own or speak to my
brother again.'

4 My dear Bruce, these miserable affairs are

not in our province,' represented Lily gravely.
'You should never allow the faintest hint of
them either to reach your ears or pass your
lips:

Then who is to be forewarned and forearmed?
Who is to resent and redress the
wrong to the victim if it be not her fellow-women
? Is it all to be left to Wat Baillie,
while his lordship would scorn to listen for a
second to a minister? Lily, Lily, is this the
way you strengthen your minister's hands ? '

You know nothing of the world, child ;
you are a great unreasonable baby. You have
been allowed to speak your mind far too freely.'
Mary was driven to a desperate, hopeless attempt
to put down and sit upon Bruce. The
next moment Miss Kirkpatrick's pliant, comfort-loving
nature took refuge in the concession she
conceived she had extorted from her sister.
At least you are forced to grant our Claud is
no worse than his neighbours. Lord Sandy is

not a good companion for him certainly, but
his lordship is the Marquis of Kevock's son 
there is that to be said for him,' asserted Mary
naively. ' The boy has so few companions he
is compelled to take up with people beneath
him often. His delicate health has always
made him a home bird. The army was not to
be thought of for him. In my father's day
most young lairds took a turn in the army.
They had their figures improved and their
manners brushed up, besides seeing a little of
the world and life with their regiments, even
when there was no more campaigning. But I
am afraid Claud could not stand even a season
in town yet ; he was so much the worse of that
run up to the Derby,' ended Mary, with a sigh.
'There are young men in the neighbourhood,
lairds' sons, who are neither good-farthings
nor ministers,' said Bruce gloomily.
c For that matter, lairds' sons are above preaching
the word of God in the manner of the old

Scots of Balearic and Melville of Carnage.
If we enter the Church nowadays we must
turn our coats and take orders after the English
fashion, with the hope of a fat rectory, or,
if we are very ambitious, a lordly bishopric.
You will not deny that the Kennedyss belong to
our class ; I believe they reckon themselves a
branch of the Ails family. Yet they never
sit ten minutes after the ladies have left the
dinner-table. The men among them are never
flustered, or whatever you choose to call it,
speaking thickly and laughing as if they were
idiots, like Claud sometimes. '

Oh ! the Kennedyss are well enough,' said
Mary grudgingly. 'Their aunt told me they
were coming out for professions. One of themis
going to the bar, and another is training for
private secretary to his uncle in Barbadoes.
They sit in chambers and study all day long.
That is not like being exposed to the weather
and to all kinds of fatigue as Claud is in

VOL. II. P

managing his land and going about his sports.
And the Kennedyss are great, strong young
lads  they were such coarse, rude, healthy
children, they can stand anything.'

'For all the good Claud does with the land

he lost on every acre last year  Mr. Govan

told us, he might as well sit in the house. As

for his sports, they are the costliest I ever

heard of,' maintained his accuser.

4 May be,' put in Lily, with provoking
philosophy, ' but what is a man without sport ?
Why, I recollect when, next to a ball, I liked
nothing so well as my share in the shooting
and hunting. If I could not dance I could hold
the candle  I could look on at the shooters, and
ride so far after the hounds. I have never
heard you object to doing the same on your
own account, Bruce,' she added, rallying her
sister.

It is all I have got to do,' said Bruce, with
.a great sigh, in which there was a lump of

exaggeration and a little bit of dreariness. ' I
am sure I do not care much about it ; I always
suppose it was different in your day and
Mary's, when there were so many of us, all
young people in the house, and papa was alive,
and there were more neighbours and neighbourhoods.
It falls flat now, somehow, but you
and Mary don't mind because you have had
your good time, as the Americans say, and you
like to take tidings quietly at last. I don't
complain of that if Claud were not so often
unsatisfactory. Neither you nor I have ever
claimed to be fortified for our pleasures,' harping
again on the one string. ' I am going to
walk over to the Bog-o'-mony-stanes to see the
waterfall after the last week's rain, but
although another pelting shower should comedown
I shall get over it without artificial
resources.'

'You naughty girl, don't expose yourself
too much. Carry your waterproof, mind your

p 2

feet, and be sure you change them when you
come in.'

1 Don't stay too long. Remember it is soon
dark. Your brother will not like you being
out when he returns.'

With these mouthfuls of injunctions the
elder sisters suffered the refractory, impracticable
youngest to set out on a somewhat distant,
solitary, and fatiguing expedition for a girl of
her years and position. Of course the family
kept old-fashioned, early hours, and the Misses
Kirkpatrick had made an old-fashioned early
call at the Manse, else there would not have
been time for a long walk before darkness and
dinner even in Brace's independent estimation.
It was one of the compensations which she
appropriated for the dissoluteness and topsy-tardiness
which she saw in the world, and for
coming into it too late for much profit and
pleasure, as she was tempted to believe, that
she took from the yielding hands of her sisters

an amount of liberty of action which they
had never presumed to ask, and would have
been indignantly denied if they had asked, in
their father's time.

Inconsistently enough, but with great truth
to human nature, Claud, who kept company
with unfavourable specimens of horse-dealers
and shady scions of the nobility, and made
himself at home at any disreputable groom's
or gamekeeper's, or wherever the indulgence
of his under-bred tastes led and held him,
showed himself much annoyed by Bruce's comparatively
harmless adaptation of his shabby
Bohemianism. Indeed, Claud Kirkpatrick, with
his love of animal indulgence for himself and
his considerable blackguardism, held rigidly
correct views for Bruce, and if he had got his
way would have kept his young sister under
even severer discipline than the late laird had
exercised towards his elder daughters. But a
brother only two or three years older, who,

in addition, fails by his own behaviour to establish
the slightest pretext for sisterly respect
and submission, is quite another relation from
a father, while Bruce had the making of another
sort of woman in her than Mary and Lily
Kirkpatrick had ever claimed in their youngest,
most self-willed days. Bruce's sense of justice,
strong for a girl, was simply outraged by
Claud's seeking to control her in her habits.
She defied him for the most part, becoming
only more rebellious and adventurous, because
of the angry sparring which her performances
elicited.

It was all wrong and tending to still
greater wrong. Claud was a man, and the
head of his house ; Bruce his junior, and a
girl. But unfortunately his manliness and
headship of the family were fatally compromised
to a nature like his young sister's by
his cool renunciation of his own obligations

and deliberate non-fulfilment of his duties.
And Bruce was spoilt ; her vigorous, not ungenerous
or un tender young nature was fast
running to seed.

CHAPTEE IV.

bruce's second meeting with the minister
at the bog-o'-mony-stanes.

The Bog-o'-mony-stanes was, as its somewhat
gruesome ' name implied, one of those waste
howling wildernesses of peat bogs, intersected
and overrun by water-courses, which after a
flood rendered it a quaking mire or slough of
despond. In these circumstances it was only
to be crossed by the help of the ' mony ' mossy
stones which, by a happy natural coincidence,
lay not sparsely strewn over the sodden green
and brown surface. No doubt there was a
season of the year when even the bog was
not without its wild, fresh beauty. The flush

of summer brought its crown to this bleak,
drenched spot as to happier regions. If the
passing glory did not come with the blue and
lilac bloom of southern marshes, there awoke
the native tribute of flowering rushes and bog
beans, rich maize-coloured and grey-white irises,
dusky purple and faintly pink archives.

But in winter the Bog-o'-mony-stanes was
more desolate in its dank and dreary gloom
than most sternly grand mountain passes.
And it was then it held the greatest fascination
for Bruce Kirkpatrick. She liked to go
there on a grey day  a cloudy afternoon, when
the low, heavy clouds threatened a deluge of
rain or an ' on-ding ' of snow. The inclination
was not born of a touch of morbidness in the
girl's temper. On the contrary, it came from
the very opposite element. The attraction
was that of reverses, the same spirit of contradiction
which made Coleridge's young, happy
Genevieve love best the songs that made her

grieve. The allurement might have been still
stronger if Bruce had been a happier girl,
but there was enough happiness left in her
buoyant youth to cause her to admit an inexplicable
charm, which was not without its
puzzle and pain, in the unrelieved dismalness
of the Bog-o'-mony-stanes in the depth of
winter. She enjoyed after a fashion facing the
encounter in order to experience the revulsion
to wonder why there should be such a forlorn
corner of God's bountiful earth, to speculate
what the bog would resemble when it blossomed
like a rose after the prophet's words
came true. For surely the peat-bogs  not the
brown, golden and purple moors  of the West
had points in common with the sandy wildernesses
of the East, and Isaiah must have referred
to them also when he talked of the solitary
place being made glad.

There was another broad contrast between
the bog and Bruce's ordinary surroundings.

The first was monotonous with what might be
called a haggard monotony, but it was not
commonplace, and commonplaceness was the
special invidious quality stamped on Birken-
craig. It was a laird's commonplace mansion
erected in Bruce's father's time, in a commonplace
little park, where the trees, hardly older
than the house, did not thrive well. The
whole erectionpiad been undertaken to supersede
an old weather-stained house on a bare
brae, both of which had not much more
beauty, but they had owned decidedly more
native individuality of character which is the
next best thing, as became the dwelling-place
and the site of the dwelling of an old family.
The gardens might have done a little for
Birkencraig, but they had only been enough
cared for to rob them of all originality and
luxuriance. They were commonplace modern
gardens, of which the vegetables and fruit
were respectable productions of their kind.

Mary and Lily with Claud himself took some
pride in them and in the flowers  great flaunting
dahlias and stiff bristling fuchsias, which
took prizes at flower-shows at Sauchope, as
the Birkencraig flowers had done in the old
laird's time. It is difficult to render a flower
vulgar, and there are gentle and delicate
natures seeing into the very heart of floral
beauty, that always look above and below any
offence. To them the strangely and wonderfully
formal and fertile lilies remain very fair,
and the painfully puffed out, mathematically
regular, ingeniously dyed roses very sweet, like
their simple predecessors. But Bruce had not
such lovely lovable penetration and innocuousness
to harm in this matter. She could not
take kindly to a flower which had been spread
out, plastered up, hacked and trimmed, and
then bribed to bear brobclingnagian blossoms.
She did not care for the gardens at Birken-
craig, which were chiefly Lily's delight. Bruce

only prized a morsel of 'children's gardens,'
which had descended to her and Claud a dozen
years before. It had not been altered, but
was still kept by its last mistress's desire,
to the mortification of Lily's tyrant, the gardener,
a blot on the dull decorum and matter-of-fact
progress of the rest. It was a thing of
youthful aspirations, tangled fancies, and semi-savage
recklessness. It offered a fine mixture
of woodland and orchard, flower and kitchen
garden, and field. Here was an oak-sapling,
there a young cherry-tree. Daffodils, poppies,
and marigolds met and fraternised with herb-willow,
queen of the meadow, and hedge
fetches. A break of milk thistles and a patch
of clover afforded indications of an old colony
of rabbits. Stray plants of potatoes and
turnips, even ears of corn, testified to the
fact that the young gardeners had proposed
to become young farmers also, to rear their
own grain, which Claud would take to the mill

and learn to grind with his ten fingers and
the help of machinery. Then when he had
brought it home as flour, Bruce, who in the
meantime was to have coaxed the cook to
give her lessons, would bake it into scones
and dumplings. Ah! if the youthful dreams
had but come true, how much better it would
have been than the present life. Be that as it
may, the B6g-o'-mony-stanes in the wilderness,
which never approached sublimity as a mountain
might have done, was yet far removed from the
fault of Birkencraig.

The vicinity offered another excuse for a
visit. Bruce often adopted, even to herself, the
explanation which she had made to her sisters,
of a taste that might be considered odd. It
was a reason for her expedition susceptible of
comprehension on this February-fill-the-dyke
afternoon. In a plantation to the left of the
bog, which was oozy and pulpy with the prevailing
plague of standing water, where osiers

and elders were the principal growth in conditions
under which mangroves would have
nourished by African seas, the ground rose on
one side and formed a bank partially drained,
presenting a thick carpet of ground-ivy and periwinkle.
In April and May primroses and wild
hyacinths paid a pleasant debt to the fall of the
ground. The water ran together and ceasing to
be a nuisance and eye-sore, waxed at once ornamental
in the shape of one of those white,
flashing minor lines that often form an agreeable
feature in what would otherwise be a
comparatively tame or barren Scotch landscape.
Having accomplished this creditable feat, the
collected water went off with a curl of triumph
as a burn too insignificant in itself to receive
any more distinguishing name than that of the
Bog Burn. But the waterfall was known to
the country people as the Pease Hugh. No
pease grew in such a locality, and there were
daring etymologists who fancied the words

were derived from a broad corruption of the
name of a famous foreign waterfall, though
when, how and why the title found its way
to this remote district, and survived on the
stubborn tongues of the homeliest country
people, nobody could tell.

The whirling pool below the fall, in which
the waters seethed and circled before they
settled to go their way, had a much more
comprehensible and graphic definition to the
unlettered vulgar. It was called the ' Caldron
Pat,' bearing a clear reference to the big, open
boiler charged with scum and froth in which
food for the cattle was prepared, yeast stored,
brine for curing great rounds of beef collected,
whey scalded, and even fat brOse boiled according
to the exigencies and festivities of old farmhouse
life.

Bruce crossed over to the white thread of
the waterfall seen through intervening boughs,
and let herself be slightly sprinkled with its
spray, and deafened by its hiss and splash. But

she really cared more for the brown bog looking
lonelier and more forsaken than ever,
under a watery sunset, in which faint blue contended
with dim green, the yellow was dirty,
and the momentary shower of red across the
grey and slate brown of the gathering clouds
was the dull dying sparks of an extinguished
fire, and had nothing in it of the regal splendour
and. calm of crimson and purple that
herald a fine morrow. When the early crescent
moon rose and glittered coldly on the surface
water, making; it show wan as the old Scotch
ballads represent it, the bog would look a
little ghostly and weird as well as savage and
desolate. But Bruce, independent and a little
reckless as she was in her long country walks,
would not stay for the early moon. She would
only rest a little on a cairn of stones. It was
the single dry refuge near, and even that was
forbidden to all wayfarers who were not bold
and wary, for it was braided over and over so

VOL. II. Q

thickly with what were now the bare and
prickly maroon coloured stems and withered
ashen leaves of brambles, that fluttering garments
had to be tucked up and gathered
needfully, and the thickest-gloved hand had to
put aside the barriers gingerly, else the gown
might be torn from the back and the flesh
pricked to the bone. But if Bruce had not Mary
and Lily's subserviency to comfort in their
middle age, she could accommodate herself
cleverly and with considerable enterprise to
circumstances. She attacked and took her
fort, cleared its summit, seated herself and proceeded
to think in a desultory fashion.

Had the Bog-o'-mony-stanes ever been
other than it was since the creation? Might
it not have been a miniature vale of Sodom,
composed probably of two or three labourers'
cottages, a toll-bar, a shop of all wares, and a
public-house, the curse of the rest, when it was
visited by sudden destruction  Bruce did not

pause to inquire of what nature  and condemned
to perpetual desolation ?

Then she remembered hearing Mary say
that when she was young she had been
frightened out of her wits to go near the place,
because there were old people still alive who
remembered having seen ' wul' cats ' lurking
among the stones. As Mary's personal acquaintance
with natural history had not included a
familiarity with the genus ' wul' cat,' she had
imagined each prowling specimen equal in
strength and ferocity to a tiger at least. Possibly
it was a ' wul' cat,' not a tiger which was
at the bottom of the story that their grandfather,
returning at dawn from some of his late
engagements, on taking a short cut across
another haugh half a mile distant, had seen ' a
wild beast' drinking at the Sauchie Dripping
Well, beloved by all the gude wives far and
near for the excellent spring which supplied
the coldest, purest, softest water in the countryside.

There had been a hue and cry that a
wild beast show must have been passing along
the nearest high road, and that some strange
and terrible animal had escaped and was
roaming about, threatening the lives of the
women and children in particular in the
neighbourhood.

The Sauchie Well had been deserted by all
save the boldest spirits for a whole summer on
account of the startling report. Doubtless the
cause of the desertion, if it had not been entirely
a figment of the old laird's heated
imagination, must have been one of the 
' wul' cats' magnified by a morning
mist. Bruce thought of Lily's sleek ancient
pusses and monkey-faced tricks kittens, the
formidable rivals of the dogs, and laughed a
little to herself at these family traditions, then
fell a prey the next moment to a panic as
groundless and absurd.

Looking idly about her, Bruce's wandering

glance suddenly fixed and froze, though in
reality she saw nothing. But she was sure she
had seen something with the tail of her eye
for an instant  something that she feared
above all other sources of physical fear, with
a constitutional, unreasoning, blind, absolutely
superstitious terror. She fancied she had detected
a brown, yellow and white appearance
glittering .and wriggling for a second before it-vanished
away among the dry stones amidst the
labyrinth of brambles loosened and parted by
her feet and hands. It passed out of sight in
the direction of the shining, slippery steppingstones
she had to cross at this end of the bog,
where fewer stones than usual were available,
on account of the recent rains and the season
of the year.

If Bruce's natural history had not been as
halting as Mary's she would not have dreaded
an adder in February, when there had been no
fleeting sunshine to cause unseasonable heat,

any more than she would have ranked a wildcat
with a tiger; but Bruce was as ignorant
even in country matters as most modern young
ladies who have not had the advantage either
of board schools, high schools, or local examinations.
And it is remarkable .how little any
knowledge avails us when we are overtaken
and overcome by a waking nightmare. Most
of us have our waking nightmares, our fears
which find us out and get the better of us by
perhaps the single flaw in our harness. On
such people it is useless to urge that the boom
of the thunder is so subdued, the storm must
be far off and the lightning harmless; that
madness in dogs is, in point of fact, a rare
complaint ; that as a rule not one cow, not one
bull in a thousand will turn and toss an inoffensive
pedestrian ; that all evidence goes to
prove mice are timid creatures, and will rather
avoid mankind than have recourse to running
up one's sleeve and down one's back.

Brace's waking nightmare was an adder ;
and when she had got an adder in her head, on
the brain, she was beyond the pale of rational
argument, supposing there had been anybody
there to argue with her on her folly.

She could not go on in the track of an
adder, not though she were to fail to re-cross
the end of the bog, and must remain on that
heap of stones, and perish with cold in the
inclemency of a February night, when there
was sure to be c wind and weet,' if not ' saw
and sleet,' long before morning ; not though
Mary and Lily fretted over her absence to the
extent of bemoaning her as drowned in the
Caldron Pat, or eaten up, till her last bones
were picked clean, by a stray, out-of-date
specimen of the ' wul' cats ' ; not though Claud
should rage, and stamp, and tear out and in,
till he had to allay his burning indignation
and lighten his bodily weariness by draughts
of more baneful oblivion than that of Lethe ;

not though  oh, horror of horrors !  there was
another adder lurking somewhere at her very-side,
for, as everybody knows, adders always
hunt in couples, and when you have slain your
first, the imperative call on you is to search for
and impale your second. But Bruce, in her
mixture of loathing and dread, was as far from
impaling as from stroking an adder.

She had risen to her feet and stood fettered
and tottering, her eyes filling and becoming
glazed with unshed tears of dismay and despair
what to do, when she gave a great start of
relief and joy. It had nearly precipitated her
first among the perilous spikes of the brambles
and sharp corners of the stones, and then
into the bog's black water  it was only
transformed into a dimly shining white sheet
by moonlight, which was deep enough to
have taken her up to the waist. That start
might have done worse still and led to her
fainting away on the instant, healthy young

girl as she was, by piercing the vulnerable spot
in her armour and reaching the craven strain
in her otherwise courageous blood, for it would
have launched her right on the imagined path
of the adder, which might have been not merely
a cobra but a dragon to warrant Bruce's extravagant
consternation.

The welcome surprise which had all but
begun its good offices by accomplishing an immediate
disaster, was the sight of a man's figure
rounding the plantation and advancing to the
nearest end of the bog. Bruce was by no means
the most docile and deferential of girls, as has
been exemplified. She was self-willed, perverse,
and refractory, since it had not been in her
power, or perhaps in her nature, to become
strong-minded and self-sufficing. She had not
the highest opinion of men, and the stranger
might be the lowest tramp. If Bruce had
kept her wits about her sufficiently to remember,
there was frequently an encampment of

tinkers and gipsies in No Man's Land, the debateable
field where four lairds' lands met on the
outskirts of the bog. The new arrival might bea
thousand times more formidable than the adder,
if the adder had a being. But Bruce betrayed
her woman's weakness in turning in the hour
of peril to her natural support. She was glad of
any man's company. She would rather face
the worst man (the silly, ignorant child!) than
an adder  most likely a penniless slow worm.

Instead of the worst the stranger happened
to be the very best man Bruce Kirkpatrick
ever knew  the Eev. Wat Baillie, of the manse
of Birkenbarns.

He stopped short in amazement when he
saw her standing alone there, like patience
on a monument or Lot's wife, by the ,
on a chill winter afternoon.

Bruce did not hesitate to hail him instantly.
Oh ! Mr. Baillie, I am very glad to see you,'
she said, for the second time in her life, as he

drew near. 'I want you so much to help me.
But take the greatest care. Have you got a
stick? No? What a pity! Why don't you
carry a stick ? ' she protested impatiently.

4 What should I do with a stick ? ' he demanded
back again in smiling surprise. 'I am
not old enough to lean on a staff, and my
hands can keep my head. Nobody has been
requiring a thrashing where you are concerned,
I hope ? None of the ' cards ' lias frightened
you ? '

There are adders about,' she said, speaking
in an awed undertone, which gave her the
air of taking a necessary precaution lest they
should overhear her. 'Your hands will not
serve you against adders, you ought to have
brought a stick. Men should always carry
sticks in the country.'

6 Will not the heel of my boot do ? ' he asked,
displaying with innocent ingenuous pride a
heavily shod gigantic foot. Above the low boot

was half an inch of a home-knitted 'rig and
fur ' sock of blue worsted yarn, and above the
sock the end of a priests-grey trowsers, turned
up by force of training, according to the stringent
directions he had received as a boy from
his mother, for his conduct on a country road
on a February day.

The next moment Wat bethought himself,
and dismissed the idle discussion for one of
more consequence. ' This is not hay-making or
shooting time, what have we to do with
adders? What is more to the purpose and
deserves greater consideration, there is fever at
Sauchie Hole where I have been " visiting."
We had better keep the wind,' and he moved
cautiously from east to west, * in the right
direction, and leave a few yards of the road
between us while I have the pleasure of seeing
you home.'

But I am not afraid of fever.' Bruce gave
the assurance rather indignantly as, after a

scared look all round her, and something like
a hop, step, and jump, she fluttered down from
her perch, charged at the stepping-stones, and
went swaying and splashing over them, alighting
on the comparatively dry sward beyond
with a little gasping cry that merged into a
quavering laugh of confidence at her escape.
Then she turned to look at him following her
more deliberately, as became a man and a
minister undaunted by adders  real or imaginary
 and only concerned lest he should
convey an infectious disease to her, so that he
felt obliged to observe the course of the wind
and measure the distance between them.

6 Did I not tell you that I had no fear of
fever?' she repeated, with a quick accent of
offence, preparing to cross the space between
them.

He retreated before her advance. ' That is
no reason why you should run any uncalled-foi
risk,' lie told her, decisively.

And why am I to be saved from risk
which you do not scruple to incur? Surely
you are a person of far greater importance than
I. You are " a wife's ae son " and the minister
of Birkenbarns,' she said, with spirits rising
fast in their rebound, her bright eyes growing
mirthful.

'And you are Miss Bruce Kirkpatrick 
Miss Bruce whom I used to think such a dainty
little lady,' he answered, slightly raising his
hat. Truly she continued to look a little lady
beside her clerical grenadier, and. her getting
up was dainty still, contrasted with Ms half
rustic trim. But in spite of his formality he
had answered more readily than she had
expected.

They walked on silently for a moment.
They had been familiar with each other by
sight and hearing all their lives. They were
now in an acknowledged relation more or less
interesting and influential. He was her minister,

she was one of his people. But it was difficult
to find conversation on the spur of the moment,
unless the talk were of the most conventional
kind, and neither man nor woman was in the
least conventional by nature, though one was a
little stiff by circumstances. The silence would
soon be embarrassing, she must hunt up something
to say  generally she did not fail in
words, yet now she could only return to the
remonstrance : ' What is the use of pretending
to be so careful lest any germ of the fever
should reach me, when it would be a much
more serious matter if it attacked you? Do
you think you bear a charmed life because you
are a minister ? '

'No,' he answered, 'but there is such a
thing as walking in the day. I mean,' he added,
correcting himself, for he hated to quote texts
as if by set design, or to express what might be
uttered in so many plain words with a kind
of sonorous spiritual rhetoric and mysticism,

4 that other men, doctors and policemen, not to
say soldiers, have their duty to do, and do it
without making any bones of it. If they face
a small amount of danger in the discharge of
duty, then, if you will forgive me for being
grandiloquent, Caesar will not die till his work
is done.'

She was worsted again in a degree, and she
did not mean to stand any more of this kind of
treatment. She had thought in her supercilious,
girlish way that Muckle Wat, with all his gifts
and graces, would be socially at her mercy.

4 Women  girls like me  have no duty, I
suppose ? ' she said inquiringly, delivering her
challenge with uplifted head and an expansion
of the delicate nostrils.

1 On the contrary, they have a high and
difficult duty,' he said, with a twinkle in his
eyes, c Milton recognised it as not beneath his
powers  to wait. How are Miss Kirkpatrick
and Miss Lily ? '

Perfectly well. Are they waiting ? '

'They are doing a great deal better,' he
said cordially, contradicting himself. ' They
keep a mental list of all the sick and poor
in the parish, and relieve them to the best
of the good ladies' ability.'

I am sure they make more paupers and
defeat the parish doctor's aims to a greater
extent than either the poor-law board or the
kirk session,' said Bruce dryly. Then she
apologised, with a spice of malice in the
apology. ' I beg your pardon. I forgot that
you are not only on the poor board, you are
the head of the kirk session.'

Never mind. I have a broad back. I
can answer for their offences along with my
own,' he said good-naturedly.

She was not slow to respond.

Mr. Baillie,'  Bruce took him at his word,
and made an accusation on the spot, with
characteristic impulsiveness  ' is it not abomin-

VOL. II. R

able in the session only to allow old Jean
Lauder two and sixpence a week and to
give Mary Johnson three shillings  whole
three shillings ! Only two and sixpence to
poor Jean, doing her best, with that great boy
of a grandchild, and three shillings to Mary,
who does nothing in the world save beg, and
has not a creature dependent on her. Why,
it is rewarding idleness and pauperism.'

Just so,' he said quietly ;, \ it is abominable,
and it is rewarding idleness and pauperism.
But, you see, Jean, who is come of
decent hard-working people, does her best,
and earns a little, which the half-crown supplements.
I wish we could make it more,
but she would be still worse off if we were
not able to give the small sum. I assure you
we do not propose that virtue should be its
own reward entirely, though there is something
in that too. We mean to apprentice
her grandson by-and-by, a little attention

which she will appreciate. We trust that he
will earn a trifle soon enough to be a help and
comfort to his grandmother. As for Mary
Johnson, she is a beggar by profession and
birth. Laziness and preying on her neighbours
are in her blood. She would rather starve
than settle to such regular humble employment
as she is fit for. But you do not suggest
we should let her starve  do you ? '

She was not his match in a nice question
of parish economy, somewhat to her simple
surprise. She tried him on other and more
personal grounds. Youth and girlhood are
wonderfully egotistical, and however they may
stray in speech and action to abstract questions,
find themselves constantly drifting to selfish,
individual topics. ' You have never asked me
to be one of your Sabbath-school teachers,' she
said abruptly, with a mixture of dignity and
reproach in her tones.

'No,' he admitted, with some indication

of feeling abashed by the direct home thrust.
4 Of course I have not.'

8 Why, of course ? ' she turned upon him
like lightning. ' I believe you think I am not
fit.'

If Wat Baillie had been a faultless man
of perfectly unblemished mental candour, he
would have answered that he could not bring
himself to regard the ' little Miss Bruce ' of old,
still as thoughtless, quick, haughty, frank, and
full of mischief by turns, as he ever remembered
her, in the light of a toiling drudging
Sunday-school teacher worthy of the name,
who should be brought in close contact with
her share of dull, disagreeable, sometimes dirty,
repulsive, dangerously impregnated childhood.
He did not think the elder Misses Kirkpatrick
would like the experience for their young
sister. He could almost pledge himself Claud
Kirkpatrick would regard the arrangement as
extremely objectionable, and would do his

best to forbid it. If Wat had been a still
better man than he was, and less affected on
this point by early partiality and prejudices
hard to eradicate, he would have seen that
there was no actual disparity between Bruce
and the office she spoke off, any more than
there was between his sister Eachie and a
similar work. Whether Bruce were fit or
not, which was a very different question, she
could not be more honourably engaged than
in such a service. Being wholly and rather
foolishly wrong in this matter, Wat Baillie,
the most straightforward of men in general,
was guilty of temporising and equivocating.
'Do you think yourself you are fit?' he inquired
evasively.

She looked at him with a puzzled, hurt
expression. ' You think I am fit to be a member
of the Church,' she said hastily, and then
stopped short as if she were approaching too
serious a topic. No doubt he was what in

other countries would be called her spiritual
director, but her fine perceptions enabled her
to judge correctly that there were subjects
which he would be altogether unjustified in
approaching, unless in the gravest mood, at the
proper time, and in the proper place. Indeed
even then she was not certain that there would
not be an incongruity and indelicacy in her
discussing them with Wat Baillie, a man not
so much older than herself, to whom she had
only spoken once or twice, and on the last
occasion with the intention of teasing him,
though by one of the transitions which were
natural to her she was in earnest now. The
man, in Brace's Scotch Presbyterian eyes,
loomed larger than the minister, and was not
set apart by his functions.

He felt compelled to lay down a theory,
though he ought to have known in his heart it
was not particularly applicable to the present
case  all the same it might help him out of a

difficulty. 4 Sabbath-school teaching and district
visiting have been made  most erroneously
to my mind, like church attendance  tests of
worthy Christian profession. Nothing can well
be narrower, sillier, falser, it seems to me.'

In the case of church attendance we arc
bidden not to forsake the assembling of ourselves
together,' put in Bruce promptly.

4 Certainly, but it reads like an incidental
recommendation, solemn and binding no
doubt, and we can conceive still more solemn
and binding when it applied to a handful of
men and women who met at the risk of their
lives in a heathen world. Still the injunction
is not particularly and continually insisted
upon, like " righteousness and temperance," for
instance. The assembling together is expedient,
even highly expedient, and it is sanctioned
and enforced by the practice of the whole
of Christendom throughout these eighteen
centuries; yet I insist the obligation is not

absolutely imperative. To put church attendance
in the place of a good and honest heart
and blameless life  to elect church attendance,
which is as much a privilege as a duty, into
an eleventh commandment, and to magnify its
importance till it is reckoned the first rather
than the eleventh, is rank pharisaism and a
terrible blunder, fruitful in hypocrisy, both
conscious and unconscious.'

Bruce shook her head in a spirit of contradiction
rather than from principle.

In proof of what I say,' went on Alarming
to his argument, ' I will undertake to
show you Christians who, for some good end,
or from some peculiar obstacle, appear rarely
in our places of public worship, who are at least
as true to their standard of Christian life as the
most regular church-goers among us. One
of the best men I ever knew never entered a
church, because he believed every Christian
house to be a church and every Christian mana

priest. As to teaching, it is surely possible
for us to understand that the command to
go and teach everywhere may, nay, must, have
had a different and more definite significance
when the elementary facts and principles of
Christianity were almost unknown, and there
were, as I said, but a handful of Christian men
and women in a heathen world.'

6 Are there so many real Christians now ? '
asked Bruce cynically.

c That inquiry is begging the question,' he told
her. ' You will not refuse to admit that Christian
knowledge is spread abroad in this country
for instance, and you may be able to believe
in relation to it that another sort of instruction
may be required  the time for a higher, subtler,
more powerful, and enduring form of teaching
may have come. Certainly every idle, even
every busy, man and woman is not qualified to
be personally and individually a teacher, or a
Bible reader, or an adviser of the poor, though

many worthy people seem to believe so. Indeed
these duties to be discharged profitably require
special qualifications and a distinct training
like most other duties that are at all well done
so as to be of real use. Odd, isn't it, that the
Christian world has taken it so largely into its
head that anybody, in any circumstances, with
the most unsuitable antecedents, can take up
beneficially the most delicate, difficult attitude
human beings can assume with success towards
each other, towards even the youngest among
their fellows ? '

Bruce laughed a little, but he did not mind
her.

It is like the wholesale printing and distributing
in Christian countries of the strongest
and the weakest, the wisest and the most
foolish religious appeals called tracts,' he
rode off* on a fresh hobby. 'These are
scattered broadcast, so that as often as nota
tract against profane swearing falls into

the hands of a woman who never dreamt
of swearing in her life ; a second tract against
love of dress becomes the possession of a
slovenly old pauper; and a third, calling on the
recipient to pause in his headlong career of
vice, repent and prepare to meet his Judge
before it is too late, alights at the feet of a
well-living, humble, godly man, who has been
repenting and preparing for many a year, and
is much nearer the kingdom of heaven than
the author of the tract. It is a great scandalous
waste of money, paper, type, and misplaced
self-devotion and diligence, with infinitesimal
results  of course the nail is hit on the head
sometimes  except in the form of huge indifference
or blatant ridicule.'

4 But what would you have, Mr. Baillie ? '
objected Bruce with a puzzled air.

'Well, there are few born and developed
counsellors of old and young, while there
are, let us be thankful, many fine, modest

men and women, Christians in more than
name, proclaiming the living gospel by silent
example. If we took onr religion into our
daily occupations, and let them be penetrated
through and through with it, do you think we
should want many more teachers, preachers, or
tracts ? My occupation, for which, by the
way, I had however badly I may illustrate
it, a long course of study and elaborate preparation,
would be gone for the most part. It
would be honourably superseded. Will you
ever forgive me, Miss Bruce, for having
preached a sermon to you out of the pulpit ? '

The question was not of forgiveness, it was
of the possibility of a young girl who argued
in a round, the centre of which was her personal
interests and prepossessions, comprehending
the large-minded generalisation of a large-minded
man, whatever his errors or mistakes.
Neither was it strange and unnatural that Wat
Baillie, with his slowness and method in ordinary

conversation, should break into such an
eager, enthusiastic harangue. Here was no
phenomenon. Men like him who are unready
and artificial with the small weapons of small
talk, prove the very men who are in clanger of
preaching sermons out of the pulpit, without
the slightest hesitation, or a single diffident
blush.

With a vague sense that he had gone beyond
his hearer's reach, Wat returned to personalities
without waiting for her pardon.
8 To tell the truth, I do not much approve of
promiscuous teaching. Birkenbarns is not a
very populous parish, and it is not specially
strong in children. As far as I see, I can
easily overtake them myself, with the aid of
Eachie, whom I can coach, and the board-school
mistress, who has been trained and
accustomed to teach. Why should I go about
the parish beating up for recruits to save my
laziness by trying amateur teaching on some

seventy or eighty children ? I should like to
see more home teaching. I would gladly set
that a-going. The chief good to be got from
rough and ready volunteer teaching, to counteract
its evils of ignorance, rashness, unsteadiness,
conceit, and bigotry, so far as I have seen
it, is to bring different classes and ages together,
and to awaken and maintain a genuine kindly
fellow-feeling between them. But in Birken-
barns, happily, everybody knows everybody
already, and is not ud willing to rejoice or weep
with his or her neighbour. Why should I disturb
the time-honoured primitive relations for
others which may not be better or nearly so
good ? '

She was not satisfied. Her woman's wit 
of which she had a superabundance  told her
that he had not been entirely sincere with her,
so far as the argument touched herself. It
rankled in Bruce's mind that though Wat Baillie
had spoken to her quite seriously and at some

length, even propounding his theories to her,
still he looked upon her as a frivolous, untrustworthy
person ; a heedless madcap in one
light, a fastidious fine lady in another.

Bruce parted from her minister, feeling
bound to revenge herself in justifying his bad
opinion of her. She would show him what a
wild, regardless girl she could be, and then
perhaps he would feel a little sorry that he had
put it into her head by betraying to her so
plainly the little he expected from her, and
rating her as made of different clay from him
and Eachie.

'Wait,' indeed! That was like Claud's
tyranny. Sit at home and not presume to take
liberties that were not becoming her sex, age,
and condition, while her brother did exactly ashe
liked, and he was not given to like what was
good. But she would let Wat Baillie see that
if she were not competent to instruct and edify
a child, she could play mischief when the inclination

impelled her; nothing very bead,
nothing to do herself or any other person real
harm, but enough to make him stand still and
stare.

CHAPTER V.

THE MINISTER'S LOT.

Life in the manse of Birkenbarns was to the
young minister, at least at this period of his
life, a very satisfactory, most enjoyable process.
He had outlived the chimeras and stumbling-blocks,
the unconscionable demands and baffling
disappointments of early youth. He had
not attained his present standpoint without first
facing hard wrestlings and falls ; encounters
which if a true man and minister ever escaped
them, he could not avoid in those days of
universal questionings  profound and agonised
on the one hand, pert and complacent on the
other, of upheaved and tempest-tossed theol.

II. s

logical dogmas. But he had-still the elastic
spirits of a young man, and what to an old
man might have been killing warfare, was to
his junior only grand discipline. He had the
noblest calling a man can claim  that of challenging
and meeting in single combat the
devouring dragons of ungodliness, false Christianity,
and unrighteousness. When all the
dragons were slain, when every man had
become a dragon-killer in the name of a greater
than St. George  that seed of the woman which
should bruise the serpent's head, then, as Wat
Baillie had said, his occupation would be gone
in a great measure. But the time for that
glorious climax was still far off, as were the
days when the sword should be beaten into a
ploughshare and the spear into a pruning-hook,
and man should go to war no more. In the
meantime what could a man ask better than
to advance the kingdom of heaven by fighting
the forces of evil  dealing a blow here and a

wound there, even though he received hurts on
his own account, and came off apparently
worsted from many an onset ?

Wat Baillie, with his simple kindly nature
and his vigorous intellectual tastes, felt himself
literally loaded with blessings  the one
load no man kicks against.

He had been appointed or presented to the
parish by an autocratic patron, and summoned
by a unanimous call from the parishioners. It
was a remarkable circumstance in his history
that though he was anything rather than a
commonplace man  on the contrary was original
by nature, and held independent views,
did not rant or indulge in sensational eloquence,
did not identify himself with this or
that popular party cry, and was a good deal
inclined, like the Apostle Paul before him, to
preach unwelcome ; moral essays ' in addition
to welcome ' evangelical discourses ; ' although

s 2

he was a self-made man whose rise in the
world might be regarded as in some respects
a mortification and reproach to those he left
behind him, he was generally respected and
liked, and continued in harmony with his
parishioners.

The explanation was that under all the
elements of difference there remained the touch
of the higher nature, which makes all seekers
after the truth  nay, the whole world of
humanity  kin. Wat might perplex, offend,
dismay, and confound his hearers sometimes
no thoughtful earnest man can help doing
so ; but in spite of such discord, there was
the dawning of a great concord between them,
in the ethereal spark of love to God and love
to man in Wat, kindled by his Lord and
Master, who displeased multitudes and roused
them into more than one frenzy of opposition,
but of whom it could still be said that the
common people heard Him gladly. The presence

or absence of such a living and life-giving
spark in any preacher of any church,
whether high or low, narrow or broad, makes
all the difference between the existence and
non-existence of the electric current which
charges the conductor and flashes the message
from heart to heart.

Wat Baillie's elders were also with him.
These consisted principally of a seriously inclined
laird, the parish schoolmaster, who was
also session clerk, a man thoroughly respectable,
moderate and cautious in every aspect ;
a medical man, more pawky than devout ;
two sincere but rather polemical farmers ; an
honest, fervent, fanatical riddle-maker, who
desired to spend his evenings in lay preaching
in the parish, and did unquestionable good
among an order of minds in one class, while
he did unquestionable harm in others ; and a
susceptible imitative shepherd, who was unconscious
of any hypocrisy in copying closely

the last-mentioned office-bearer, though he did
not attain to his powers of persuasion and
consequent influence.

All these brethren were more or less
exercised about Wat in the soundness and
success of his ministry. He was their minister
doubtless, but they were his elders in age as
in office, and they felt, more or less, that as
members of a republican kirk they were in
their places to keep guard over him, to bea
check on his intellectual tendencies and
ministerial actions. But though he raised a
troubled doubt occasionally, now in one, now
in another, the conviction remained and grew
on them that young Mr. Baillie was of the
right sort, a good and faithful servant, to the
best of his knowledge, of his and their
Master. Their loyalty prevailed and increased.
The gain this was can only be properly
appreciated by an unfortunate Scotch minister
who has struggled long and fruitlessly with

a set of antagonistic, refractory, densely prejudiced
elders  perhaps left to him as a legacy
by his predecessor. The elder or lay element
has its advantages in a popular democratic
church  which is, notwithstanding this characteristic,
liable to become a prey to priestcraft,
but like every other human institution, it has
also heavy drawbacks. The elder question in
Scotland is something altogether different from
the farmer difficulty in England, which caused
some enthusiastic young members to say one
day, with a sigh, that a rural parish would be
paradisaical were it not for the farmers. The
kirk session is more like a council of cardinals
with the pope at its head  only the Scotch
pope is never admitted to be infallible. The
session may deal either with spiritual or
mundane matters, and that accredited non-infallibility
of the pope, together with the
spiritual eminence of each of the cardinals,
causes an equality which, however comely and

excellent a principle in itself, holds always the
seeds of revolution in it.

Wat's lines were cast in pleasant places.
All the parish, including the most contradictory
seceders, agreed that Birkenbarns kirk
and manse made up ' a bonnie part.' The
beetling Craig rose close at hand. The big
hummock was covered with heather, juniper,
and blue-berry bushes, and crowned by natural
battlements of blue-grey rock, sown with red
and yellow lichen, and embroidered with an
occasional tuft of wild strawberries, cranes-bill
geraniums, and nodding harebells. The
Craig was a refuge for the conies and the
heather linnets. Wild goats would have
leapt there had wild goats belonged to the
fauna of modern Scotland. As it was, the
Craig lent a touch of wild nature to the
pleasant domestic scene, rising right behind
the old-world grey-stone kirk  itself lichen-covered
and ivy-draped  and the manse.

There was no adjoining hamlet of the living,
though there were the homes of the dead in
the green, daisy strewn kirkland. The last
was not desecrated as it might have been
near a village, though, indeed, ignorant strangers
are given to attribute an offence of the past
to the present generation. There are neglected,
ill-kept churchyards both in Scotland
and England, but though the former country
may not supply so many models of flower-gardens
among the tombs, many of its lone,
quiet, hill-side or valley kirk yards may challenge
comparison in every appropriate attribute
of solemnity, peace, and simplicity with any
God's acre in Christendom. In the same light
the rudest shepherd's, ploughman's, or fisherman's
funeral among the hills or the leas, or
by the sea-shore, may be conducted with
seemly reverence and deep feeling. In Scotland
4 men are rude and speak their minds,' but
it is a shallow as well as a gross error which

confuses the absence of weak sentimental
demonstrations with the presence of coarse
stoicism, and scatters broadcast the repulsive
accusation of disrespect and indifference to
their dead on the representatives of a nation
that has shown itself, over and over again,
capable of ardent passion, strong fidelity, and
semi-quixotic devotion to persons and causes
which have passed away.

The Manse of Birkenbarns was an ordinary
enough square house of free-stone, with roses
clipped and snipped and snubbed, not allowed
to grow too high or too near the windows, on
the front with its southern exposure, and on
the gable which looked to the west. But it
was saved from mediocrity or worse by its
agreeable situation  kirk and kirkland, manse
and manse garden lying nestling together in
the ' how ' of the Craig, looking up to it at
all seasons and borrowing from it shelter and
sweetness. The manse garden was all that

a manse garden should be, for ministers, like
the monks of the past, and like the shoemakers
and weavers of the present, have been noted,
along with the soundest and gentlest natures in
every class and vocation, for an addiction to
gardening. A book called ' The Manse Garden,'
ably written by a minister of the Kirk, used to
be the standard Scotch authority for the best
simple gardening adapted to the needs of
middle-class folk with limited grounds and
means. The garden at Birkenbarns was both
sunny and shady, protected from the north and
east winds by the Craig. It was fertile from
long cultivation, former ministers having been
good gardeners. It was profuse in useful
vegetables and fruit, screened away by some
simple device of sweet-peas and hollyhocks and
sweet-briar hedge. It abounded in common
favourite flowers and shrubs, with here and
there a rare tree or bush or blossom, carefully
reared and acclimatised and proudly cherished

as trophies of the gardener's skill, and seed
mindfully sent to the reigning minister by
kindred, or former parishioners gone abroad or
settled in the colonies. This manse garden did
not make a great appearance at flower shows, as
its owners had not in general gone in for the
production of over-grown monstrosities and
specialities, but it had in its time added its
stores to those of many a cottage garden,
furnishing treats for the dwellers in hovels and
garrets, and invariably supplying the cherries
and gooseberries, apples and pears for summer
and winter school feasts. It had that quintessence
of beauty in a garden, a sloping bank
to a little stream, no other than a thread of the
Bog Burn, which ran along by the strawberry
beds at the foot of the garden, but still within
its four fruit-laden walls. Wat Baillie, without
having recourse to his glebe, had a considerable
space of garden wherein to stroll and
meditate, like Isaac, at even-tide, and as his

mother often pointed out with asperity, unlike
the ' patriarch ' to smoke before he went to
roost, as the boyish-minded scholar and divine
would privately call retiring to rest. To tell
the truth, he did little else in the garden than
stroll and meditate, hence the whiteness and
softness of his hands with which Bruce Kirkpatrick
found fault. He said he was too big and
his back was too long for gardening, but that was
an audacious pretence not worthy of the man.
In reality, he had no early acquaintance, like
what might have been enjoyed by a better-born
minister, with such a garden as had now
fallen to his lot, and though he delighted in it
after the inner man, it was an ignorant delight,
thus he did not take naturally to gardening like
a duck to water.

It was a great eclipsed pleasure for the
minister to afford a comfortable home, superior
to anything they had ever known, to his
father, mother, and sister. It did not at this

time seriously interfere with the gratification
that Mr. and Mrs. Baillie abused their privileges.
Wat never said or even paused to think
they did so, though lie allowed to himself that
his mother, with the best intentions in the
world, was trying in some of her ways, which
had to be resisted for her own sake as well as
for his, where they interfered with positive
duties. The resistance was not an agreeable
exercise, but the minister went through it manfully
as he did most of his battles, and forgot it
as soon as possible. His father never set up
an independent protest, while he was not the
most enlightened and amusing companion,
though his son would have been the last man
to reproach him with the defect. Wat rather
tried to be amusing on his side. As to
enlightening his father, the son was never
guilty of the presumption. Tammas Baillie
might not be book-learned (he was grossly
illiterate for a Scotchman who had attended a

good parish school in his youth), or possessed
of great original sagacity (he was one of the
dullest, most stupid men going  Wat and
Eachie were certainly indebted for their brains,
which had taken a new direction, to their
mother), but the old man had known a thing or
two before Wat was born, and might still be held
by all reverent, single-hearted people to retain
a vague but potential natural advantage and
superiority, from that earlier start in being and
primal relation, enough to cope successfully withall
accidental arbitrary disadvantages and inferiorities.
Wat honoured his father and mother
against every obstacle which would have floored
a flunkey or a man with the slightest strain of a
cad in him, and he reaped the fruits of such
honour. He was not a forecasting or foreboding
man, so that he did not trouble himself with
prudent anticipations and precautions against
the days when there might be rival interests
and claims in the manse, and the old couple's

presence there become a fertile source of strife
and unhappiness.

Then where in all the world was there a
sister, confidante, and companion like Eachie,
who gave everything and exacted nothing, who
had submitted to be trained for her post, and
was proud and pleased to occupy it ? What
man was ever better off in a sister ? Eachie
proved his right hand and his left, brain, his
chaplain  as if he were a great church dignitary
treasurer, secretary, and the sharer of all his
refreshments no less than of all his cares. For
she not only read the ' Nineteenth Century ' and
the ' Contemporary ' from beginning to end as
light reading, but she could interpret the obscure
verse of a tremendous Greek chorus, and disentangle
the clue to a subtly inverted system of
German philosophy, better than he could, he was
always proudly boasting, in his fond estimation
of her and loving depreciation of himself.

At unison, as far as weak fallible man maybe,

with the mighty, infallible Author of his
being, his Father in heaven and his elder
Brother in the skies, at unison in the best sense
with the world around him and with himself,
doing his work diligently, hopefully, and
humbly, having his pure, simple, intellectual
tastes keenly gratified on all sides, we may well
believe that Wat Baillie was one of the happiest
men on earth during the first year of his settlement
at Birkenbarns. To say there were drawbacks
; that he had also crosses, vexations, and
mortifications ; that his patience was sorely
tried occasionally, and his sense of justice and
generosity sometimes grievously offended, is
but to admit that he was still in this world, a
mortal man, in a strange, perplexing, in some
respects painfully contradictory and abnormal
sphere.

VOL. II,

CHAPTEE VI.

LIFE IN THE MANSE OF BIRKENBARNS.

Wat Bailie was in the habit of rising with the
lark in summer and long before the lark in
winter. He had learnt the practice when he
had not only to con his lessons at odd hours,
but to save trouble still more than candles. In
winter he kindled his own fire, and in both
summer and winter he took his first breakfast
of oat-cakes and milk without help. After his
private prayers, of which we shall say nothing,
seeing they were between him and his Master,
he read Greek and Hebrew and the Fathers, as
if he were studying for a professorship theological
or secular, or with the purpose of entering

the public arena of learning and having a throw
with some of the intellectual athletes. But in
truth he had no wish or thought of ever applying
for another post than that of the minister
of Birkenbarns. He desired to grow old, to
live and die in his first charge  always learning
to know and love it better, always more fully
qualified to slay dragons, speak the truth,
gather in the harvest, and extend the kingdom
of his Master. He would even have liked to
become a benefactor in a temporal sense to his
parish, like the good Swiss pastor Oberlin and
the equally good Scotch minister Duncan. Apart
from this he had little or no worldly ambition,
which men of the type of Claud Kirkpatrick
explained by the argument, correct so far as
it went, that Wat Baillie, the son of the former
grieve of Eintoul, had already risen in the
world by a long step when he became a placed
parish minister, entitled to the high distinction
of sometimes sitting  by no means on terms of

T 2

peril ct equality  at lairds' tables and saying the
grace there. And Wat had hardly so much as
dreamt of contributing to contemporary literature
 that channel by which men such as heare
often naturally and blamelessly induced to
widen their influence and increase their not too
large incomes. Strange to say, Wat's income,
like his office, was sufficient for him, while he
smiled or laughed outright at the idea of fame.
He had little more personal than worldly ambition,
and was, perhaps, unassuming to a fault.
He studied, as Hal of the Wynd fought, for his
own hand, with the single motive of tilling,
fertilising, and storing his own mind to the gain
of his parishioners, who were nevertheless anything
save scholars. They represented the
agricultural interest in different estates  similar
to the political chambers in constitutional
countries. The members were a few lairds
and many more farmers and ploughmen, with
their womankind ; not one of them  though

they had all advanced to more prosperity and
polish  so thoroughly taught in the little they
knew as the sons of the soil had been in Scotland
two or three hundred years before. Wat
Baillie studied for the love of study ; but that
love became, as it were, hallowed and reclaimed
from selfishness by being broken in and yoked
to the highest aim, so that study was rendered
an everlasting joy to him.

At eight o'clock, when the sluggards of the
world were still in bed, Wat, after having
been hours in excellent company, ate a rather
more liberal breakfast with his family. Even
this was not exceptionally liberal, for Mrs.
Baillie presided over it in more than pouring
out the tea. She would no more have allowed
the presence of coffee also on the table than
she would have consented to introduce chocolate,
or, what was worse, claret  the former
she called a c nest French superiority,' the
latter a ' drunken-like fashion, fit only for reprobates

who had been on the booze half the
night, and risen with splitting head-aches and
a craving for a hair of the down that had
bitten them.' She permitted porridge and
milk  the milk rather thin and blue in spite
of the manse cow and dairy  and suffered
Eachie to dispense them. For dainties there
were tea and ' loaf bread ' and fresh butter,
with herrings, as a thrifty relish, judiciously
varied on alternate days and according to the
season of the year, by specimens of the fish in
their  saut,' ' reekit,' or ' spelled ' conditions.

There was a tolerably well-stocked poultry
yard among the manse offices, but never a
new-laid egg appeared at the minister's table.
Mrs. Baillie hunted the hens, ransacked their
nests, and treasured their ess as if these were
the famous golden eggs of the great goose. If
she did not convert them into gold, she transposed
them, together with a large proportion
of the butter secured from the manse cow,

into silver and copper, or payment in kind by
barter with Sauchope tradesmen.

Mrs. Baillie looked on thrift as the cardinal
Christian virtue, waste as the beginning of
demoralisation and universal corruption. She
was not able to see for herself, what she must
have read in her Bible, that there was a giving
which tended to increase, and a liberality that
made rich. It passed her comprehension that
the rigid, self-denying economy which might
have been meritorious when it enabled her
and her husband to rear Wat for an honourable
office, and to enable Eachie to earn an honest
livelihood, might in other circumstances degenerate
into sheer grasping niggardliness.
She was fully convinced that her mission 
what she was at the Manse of Birkenbarns for
was to hold in Wat in his personal and
family expenses, since she had found herself
unable to restrain him in his considerable
parish outlay. She had tried that also, for

she was a confident, unhesitating woman. She
had interfered with his doles and his contributions
to this or that charity ; but here she
had met her master. She had found Wat as
stubborn and immovable as the most hard to
deal with of men. ' No, mother, it is his or
their due from me. She or they must have
it. If you think I cannot afford it,' returning
to his gentle deference to her judgment and
authority, ' then we must manage that I give
up something of my own. There must be
plenty of things to give up, since you and
Eachie take care that I am served like a
prince ' (he was never farther from speaking
in irony in his life). i But my debts to the
Kirkenbarns people, and to every good cause I
can help in the least, must be discharged.'

One of Mrs. Baillie's principal grievances,
where Wat's private expenses were concerned,
was that from the hour he entered on a living
he was obliged by the laws of his church to

contribute to the ministers' widows' fund.
Wat to provide for a widow ! He who had
never owned a wife, and need never own such
a doubtful good so long as his mother or even
Kachie was to the fore. It was a clear imposition
and swindle. There was no use in
seeking to explain that the compulsion was
exercised for the good of the many  with the
needy among the number  that the cares of
harassed reverent heads of families might be
lightened by the pittance for ministers' widows
drawn in part from the inevitable contributions
clerical wags called them ' thank offerings ' 
of young and old bachelors and confirmed
widowers. What had Wat Baillie to do with
other men's widows ? Let them work and
spare, as Mrs. Baillie had done all her days ;
let their own husbands manage to lay up an
aliment for them. Mrs. Baillie believed Watts
be a simple man in his cleverness and
worth, and therefore the be<Tar's brother.

She had a certain amount of contempt for the
son who was too practically good for her. She
had an aggrieved rather than pained suspicion
that his strict orthodoxy might be doubtful.
Wat made too much work about the sectaries.
What did it signify if this man was
poverty-stricken, and that woman worked to
the bone, and these children shivering in rags
with empty stomachs, if they got a good
Gospel sermon to keep their souls in the right
road ? God had ordained different lots in life.
Wat need not think to overturn time out of
mind disparities of condition, which were the
decrees of Providence. Wat put far too much
weight and held forth too peremptorily on
character and conduct, since the best works
of righteousness were but filthy rags, and free
grace was everything. We were all wicked
and vile in God's sight, and deserved nothing
save the outpouring of the vials of His wrath
till we had accepted the scheme of redemption,

and then we were safe in covenant with Him.
If anybody had told Mrs. Bailliethat an apostle
once cried God forbid he should say let
men go on to sin that grace may still more
abound, as ill-informed and impudent slanderers
and liars pretended he had said, she would have
indignantly asked you if you thought she did
not know the Scriptures, and would have given
you chapter and verse, as perhaps you could
not have given her, for the apostle's statement.
But her glib familiarity with the text did not
prevent her and many of the same creed from
unconsciously reiterating the charge with something
like deliberate and determined approval.

At the same time, Mrs. Baillie would stand
up, without altogether letting him know it, for
her only son, who had so far done her and his
father credit ; would keep him right and save
him from being ruined, as she was satisfied he
would be without her.

There was one thing that could be said for

Kate Baillie. She was honourably consistent.
She did not pinch other people in order to
squander the gain on herself. She wore black
caps to minimise the soap and time employed
in washing, though she would have preferred
white head-dresses, because the white set off
better the lingering, somewhat hardly-moulded
and ingrained personal attractions, in which
she took secret, and Wat and Eachie took open,
pride and pleasure. Her son and daughter, as
well as her husband, whom she had trained to
look up to her in every respect, regarded her
as one of the handsomest women of her age in
the country.

Mrs. Baillie allowed herself little more ease
and comfort than she allowed Eachie in keeping
at the heels of the single servant girl, who
liked and respected her young master, and
could have tolerated her old master and ' Miss,'
but who entertained a lively detestation of her
mistress, though she had been a former companion

and friend of the girl's mother. ' Sairey '
railed against Mrs. Baillie whenever she had the
opportunity, as a hard task-mistress, who had
not been accustomed to servants, so could not
ask too much from them, a skin flint by nature
and practice.

But Wat only recognised his mother's
sincerity ; and, giving her credit for the truest
interest in his welfare, bore cheerfully with all
her peculiarities, and was ready to resign at
her word, without a murmur, indulgences to
which he had been accustomed for years. He
only stood fast when she encroached on his
spiritual liberty, or threatened to assail the
rights of his parishioners.

By this give-and-take system on the part of
the master of the manse, it was possible for the
household to get along, if not altogether smoothly
still steadily, and on the whole very happily.

Wat, who had eaten kedgeree, devilled
turkey, and the perfection of chops and kidneys

at rich men's tables, could content his healthy,
temperate appetite with the changes rung on
herrings. He even praised the fare without a
grain of deceit. ' Your herrings are always so
good, mother ; I think it must be your mode
of cooking,' he told her pleasantly, as he was
helped a second time.

She condescended to be gratified by the
filial tribute, and to show her gratification in
the modified admission, ' Well, my man, it's a
blessing you're pleased. A handle men-folk
are ill to please,' with an implied complaint
against her submissive husband ; ' that is, to
judge by their taking ' (carefully measuring
out) ' their commendations. But anybody
would be set up that found fault with sic weel
fared, weel prepared fish.'

There are as gude fish in the sea as ever
cam out o't  eh, gudewife?' struck in the inobservant
Tammas, with a dim notion that he
was expected to contribute to the conversation,

and with nothing more appropriate to
say.

'You harrel! is that all you ken?' demanded
his better half, scornfully ; for Mrs.
Baillie was one of those persons who consider
that the most unassailable Christianity may
exist along with a supercilious mien, an arrogant
will, and a mountain of self-conceit. ' Did
you not hear me say the preparation of the fish
was mair than half the making of them ? '

May be, my dear, may be,' assented
Tammas hastily ; ' but I have no rock with
preparation of rude ; it is not in my line. I
leave that in gude hands. I may say, though,'
lifting up his head, with a light coming into his
pale blue eyes as he prepared to blow his own
trumpet and assert his claim to superior wisdom,
'I ken something of the preparation o' Ian'.
Wat, I have given orders for mair granny to
put upon the neep-field, and Ship Todd is to
drive it from the station ; but I can spread it

best myself'  if you cinna object '  looking
around a little doubtfully  ' to my class. Buta
gaff o' wind will set that right ; and if the
thing is done proper, I'll beat you the field will
ding every other in the paris.'

Gae wa' wi' you, Tammas Baillie,' Mrs.
Baillie took the word out of her son's mouth
and the law into her own hand. ' You'll do a
handle mair harm to your wearing apparel'
(she was a small pedant in her way, and was
partial to the use of ' long-webbed ' words when
she indulged in an English phrase) ' than you'll
do a grain guile to the sile by a' your chardin'.
Div you think anybody's to sit in the room wi'
you and your breeks, when they're fit to knock
toon bees ? '

I think, father, if you direct Ship how to
spread the guano it will come to much the
same thing without offending my mother's
nostrils,' said the minister with a laugh.

The old man muttered his dissent, but there

was no disputing the interdict, and peace was
restored.

After breakfast the minister withdrew again
to his study  his and Kachie's room, the best
beloved by them in the manse, though, except
for its well-filled bookcases, it was as bare and
prosaic, as scoured free from any little tracery
of fancy and feeling, as every other room in
the house. Eachie had never been at liberty
to employ her fingers in ornamental needlework
; which, perhaps, was as well, for neither
fingers nor taste had received any education,
while their possessor had none of the intuitions
of genius. Mrs. Baillie, whose spirit pervaded
the material furniture of the house, objected to
flowers  even cut flowers in a room  k as harbourers
of dirt and trash of dropping leaves.'
She had a still stronger dislike to domestic pets
of every description, ranging from cats and
dogs to birds. She applied extensively to them
the adjective ' nest,'  ' nest brutes,' or ( nest

VOL. II. u

craters, whether they were four-legged or

feathered, ' belonging to needless expense,'

filling every hole and corner wi' their banes

or their seed, their hair or their " doors."

She cut away the roses and drove the wild

birds from the window-sills ; but it would not

have entered her head, even if it had been in

her power, to shut out the view of the Craig

blooming profusely with its ever-hardy verdure,

and dyed in nature's dyes more exquisite than

were ever furnished by Eastern loom. She did

not value the Craig, she rather grudged its

presence, considering that it shut out a wider

view of the fields and distant houses  not that

it supplied the loveliest epitome of the grand

and the beautiful, the finest finish to the scene.

But even her energy could not contemplate

upheaving the solid obstacle, though she would

have liked it well enough, if it had fallen in

the way of road-makers or engineers, to be

blasted ' or bored through, or shattered into

rent, scarred, stripped fragments. Neither did
Mrs. Baillie propose to stop the morning and
evening orisons and the entire early summer-day's
song of the birds, though she often complained
that they ' dared ' or deafened her with
their idle noise. And she carried out vigorous
raids  which Wat was sometimes guilty of circumventing
 against the performers, by nets
and snares of divers descriptions, on the plea
of the birds' attacks, or aspirations when the
marauders failed to attack, against the peas and
currants.

But on the whole the study was not Mrs.
Baillie's domain, and though she rarely allowed
to others what she did not use herself, she
could not deny it was a minister's perquisite
and attribute, like an office to a writer, or a
druggist's shop to a doctor. Wat was bound to
have a study, so she permitted him to have it,
and as she never installed herself in it, did not
often enter it except to dust it severely now
v 2

and then, there was an air of freedom as well
as of high converse about the room which was
wanting from every other apartment in the
house. There were present in the spirit, which
was better than being there in the body, prophets
and apostles, ' the holy army of martyrs.'
The good, true, and wise of every age and
clime, heathen philosophers and poets groping
through their twilight darkness after truths
hidden from Christians in the broad light of
day. Saints and sages ; pleasant, kindly gossips,
making the different centuries and generations
god-sib by the speakers' frank, human talk ;
men of science with their researches, brave and
unflinching, calm and careful in the seekers'
faith and humility, or bold and defiant with a
constant tendency to rashness and dogmatism
in the men's scepticism and scorn, because they
had abandoned the secret of life in the act of
pursuing it, and could never see the invisible
God, whom they insisted on beholding with

the naked eyes of their senses or their intellect.
There came profounder poets who could
not doubt of a Creator and Preserver, because
He had given them in a far-off, infinitesimal
way a reflection of His power of creation, and
because their imaginations bore them up, after
a fashion, as the Everlasting Arms are represented
supporting all flesh. There met German
thinkers, French expounders, English interpreters
between the two  all the goodly array,
some splendid, some stately some ponderous
and crushing as iron, some fine and piercing as
steel, some dry and musty, some bringing with
them an atmosphere wholesome and glad, like
that of the Craig to the youngest laddie in the
parish when he 'spoiled' it on a Saturday afternoon.
And one and all did not refuse to keep
company with Wat and, through him, with
Eachie. The study in the Manse of Birkenbarns
was a haunted place as benignly haunted as the
studio of William Blake, the painter of his

generation, who grew beside himself with inspiration.
' Don't sit there,' he cried to some
intrusive visitor who was about to possess himself
of one of the vacant shabby chairs ; ' don't
you see it is already occupied ? Moses is sitting
there.' The Eev. Wat might have waived off a
coveted of his ungenial horsehair and mahogany
by the astounding piece of information, not the
less true because the delivery of it would have
set him down forthwith as a madman, that Shakespeare
or Plato or aesop or Paul or Job had
been before the visitor.

But Wat did not go into his study after
breakfast to study. He wrote his sermon there,
doing it with the greatest thought and care asa
discourse which would be delivered to immortals
 albeit rustics, in the presence of
their and his Master who had called him to
preach the sermon  that is, to tell what he had
learnt of God and the Son of God  to Wat's
fellow-men.

On the days when there was no sermon to
write Wat was occupied with what may be
called official work. He had a good deal todo.
He had presbytery and synod meetings to
attend. He liked the variety, and relished with
what shrewdness and humour were in him,
studying men at first hand in their speech and
actions instead of in their writings, albeit this
field was limited. Mild as he was, he had his
share of combativeness, his cock's comb, and
with all his thorough friendliness he experienced
no great objection to coming into rousing
collision as well as peaceful contact with his
brethren, where some of his favourite theories
and pet schemes were concerned, though he
was apt in the presumption of his youth to
think the details of many of the meetings and
minutes rather small. He had benefit societies
and classes of various kinds. He was
claimed directly or indirectly by every description
of board and commission, poor board,

school board, prison board, commission of
lunacy, road trusteeship; for the minister, if nota
recognised popular rural magistrate or justice,
still had his finger for good or for evil inmost
magisterial pies. He had letters to write
many on his own account and many on
behalf of others  and he strove to arrange all
his engagements with method, which was not
his forte, but which he knew to be necessary
to the best discharge of his duty. It may
appear that no great interests were at stake
in the business of a country parish ; indeed
parochial often stands for what is petty, and
a great public man may despise the stupid
humdrum life of a buried-alive minister, which
will only tend to prove that the great man
after all is a small man, short-sighted withal.
For the first principles which are of vital moment
are at work everywhere for eyes that can see
and control them. The human race and the
world of nature are two important factors,

which, though they may vary in scale, are
much the same all the universe over, whether
they are found in courtly and parliamentary
circles, and in mountain ranges and vast campaigns,
or among a simple folk and in a few
pastoral fields.

Wat baptised babies and married men and
women on occasions, besides receiving many
privileged visitors in that study. But these
visitors seldom came in the morning. They
were working people mostly, who attended
at Wat's levees, and these as a rule were
held in the earlier part of evenings set apart
for the purpose. But at all times, and in all
circumstances, the Manse was free to the
parishioners, for Wat was their minister, on
the spot, save during the couple of weeks
commonly known in Scotland as the length
of a minister's holiday, to listen to his people
and serve them if he could. Above all, he
knew them intimately every one, for without

that knowledge which should represent  however
faintly and at whatever immeasurable
distance  the unerring wisdom and sympathy
of Him who knows what is in man, Wat
could not have the smallest hope of helping
effectually one of the number.

The arrival of the post was the great event
of the day at Birkenbarns, bringing with it a
multitude of the most heterogeneous despatches
for the minister  the public news contained in
the daily paper, in which, like every true man,
he took an intense interest, and not infrequently
a new book, too rare or special for
the reading club, enough of a pamphlet inform
to be cut out for postal conveyance, not
too dear for a minister's purse, though always
looked at askance by Mrs. Baillie in the light
of a purchase which was a folly verging on a
sin in the minister. As if he had not enough
books already, as if books were the root of the
matter, and not a temptation to trust in carnal

learning; a waste of Bachie's time, though
that was little matter by comparison, as well
as of Wat's own.

At the mid-day dinner Mrs. Baillie and her
husband took the head and foot of the table
in the manner complained of by the public,
and "Wat supped his broth and ate his pork,
or his scrag of mutton, or his lean rabbit, or
his tough old cock at the side, like Eachie,
in manfulness, meekness, and thankfulness.

The afternoon was the time set apart for
the minister's ' visiting,' a kind of visiting peculiar
to his office, and as distinct from ordinary
calling as the feast of the halt and the blind,
recommended by the great Master of such
feasts, is apart from ordinary dinners. Wat's
parish was not very large, but it was never
unprovided with poor people, sick and bedridden
men and women, folk in worldly trouble,
in sore bereavement, in mental distress. These
sufferers might and generally did dwell miles

apart, so that to take them in turn by a
.minister who did not keep a horse, involved
an amount of constant bodily exercise which
rendered athletic sports, on the plea of health,
unnecessary. Of course Wat had his walks
and visits for mere pleasure also  walks to
the neighbouring manses in the exchange
of friendly sociality ; walks to some place
of arch geological, geological, botanical, or ornithological
interest in the neighbourhood ;
walks to the town for a later newspaper or a
fresh book. In both descriptions of walk 
professional or private  Wat, who was eminently
companionable, rejoiced when Eachie
went with him. But Mrs. Baillie thought
walking, if it could be avoided, a waste of
time for men, and especially for women. Twas
obliged to walk in the course of his visits,
and that was some excuse for the wearing out
of his boot-soles ; but Eachie ought, like her
mother, to have enough of walking in going

up and down and to and fro in the house,
the dairy, the offices, and the garden, maintaining
a perpetual cleaning, and taking care
that nothing was wasted. Tea was a regular
meal for which all the family assembled as
unfailingly and with as serious interest as for
the early dinner. It made the nearest approach
to a luxurious meal of any in the Manse, since
the most austere conformers to a narrow rule
have generally one point of relaxation. Mrs.
Baillie yielded a little to fleshly appetite in
brewing good tea, in permitting a choice of
scones, oat cakes  nay, even buttered toast in
winter, with the clear superfluities of cheese,
honey, and preserves  to appear without censure
on the festal board. And the talk round
the tea-table, as if it were affected by these
indulgent conditions, waxed freer and livelier.
The day's experience and the parish news were
discussed and enlarged upon with comfortable
leisureliness of detail, for there was no more

hurry on account of the day's work, which was
nearly over. Family jokes were permitted.
Mrs. Baillie, if she happened to be in a gracious
mood, would crack pungent jokes on her own
account, to the admiration and enlivenment
of the whole company.

After tea Wat gave his receptions, or
strolled out for some comparatively ,
easy, only semi-professional visits, or
to look in on some special cronies. In these
he had a double reward. He felt the salutary
satisfaction winch every conscientious man or
woman must feel in an honest attempt at the
fulfilment of duty  marred, as it must always
be, by human weakness ; and he had the
genuine pleasure which every student of character
cannot fail to experience, on each opportunity
for fresh analysis, in all the new curious
traits of mind and will, pathos and humour, he
was for ever coming across. For a rural parish,
even more than a great city, is full of strongly,

quaintly-marked characters to those who can
appreciate such, and Wat loved to make their
acquaintance and to derive wider sagacity together
with blither amusement from them, as
from his books.

At eight o'clock Eachie brought forward
the Books, and the servant girl entered and
sat down near the other members of the family
that they might worship God in their household
relation. No doubt Mrs. Baillie would have
liked that she, in the person of her husband,
should continue to preside over this act also.
But after a struggle she had yielded her supremacy,
and summoned Wat to fill the arm-chair
at the head of the table, when, being called, he
had answered to the call. Tammas Baillie's
stanchest backer on all occasions could not
say that he had a gift of extempore prayer,
while, after all, Wat was the minister in his own
Manse, and some respect was due to him in
that light, though his mother would have declined

absolutely to grant to him or any other
minister  even to John Knox himself  the
right of a priest in guiding her devotions.

The supper was a light informal repast,
consisting generally of potatoes and the ubiquitous
herrings, a crab to pick when the fishwife
brought shell-fish inland in her creel,
hard biscuits or ' water bakes,' which demanded
a hatchet rather than human hands
or teeth to break them, porridge, butter-milk,
the thinnest and fizziest of beer (Carlyle's
'swats'), and a tumbler of toddy, which Wat
concocted expressly for his father, considering
that the old man required the stimulant.

Of course every day and night was not
alike. There were changes and interludes
constantly occurring, but these were mostly
changes rung on the same round of tasks, and
recreations, with interludes similar in style to
the main events in the lives of the family
group. Wat would have his elders to dinner

on the Monday after a sacrament Sunday. He
would assist in * serving the tables ' at some
neighbouring sacrament, and dine out in his
turn. He would give his Sabbath scholars tea,
and work a magic lantern for their delectation.
He would deliver lectures in the course of
popular lectures, or preside at the penny readings
in the towns and villages round.

In the winter evenings, when Tammas
Baillie's narratives of what he had done with
land became particularly prosy, and irritated
his wife till she looked up from the stocking
she was knitting or darning to nag at him
unmercifully, Wat would induce his father to
play draughts with him. Scotch peasants have
an addiction to draughts, and take pride in
their skill in the game in emulation of the
herd-laddie,' who was the champion draught-player
of Scotland. Their acquaintance with
cards is much more superficial, and rarely
goes beyond ' Birkie ' and fc Catch the Ten.'

VOL. II. x

Besides, such acquaintance belongs to a different
type and age, and is for the most part loftily
abjured by soberly inclined, elderly workingmen.
Not only were the refined and intellectual
mysteries of whist utterly unknown to
the inhabitants of the Manse of Birkenbarns,
save to the minister himself, who had mastered
them as a tutor sometimes required to obviate
the use of a dummy  if cards had been introduced
in this quarter the pack would have
been at once sternly stigmatised by Mrs. Baillie
as ' devil's books,' relentlessly confiscated, and
in their glossy and spotless newness flung at
the back of the fire, as surely as the ' painted
masks,' embroidered veils, and scented gloves,
the artists' free sketches, and the idle story-books
were piled into heaps in the Florentine
streets and sentenced to pass away in smoke
and ashes, at the consuming word of Savonarola.


Summer ' or winter, in the morning or in

the evening, or on rainy afternoons, Wat and
Bachie always contrived that they should
spend some time together over their books,
while she brought her seam into the study and
he read to her, or she read to him, and he, lying
back in his not particularly easy chair, with his
hands clasped above his head and his legs
crossed, listened, stopping her frequently by his
eager remarks and vivid illustrations.

Life was very frugal at the Manse of
Birkenbarns, a good deal more frugal than it
need have been, or than it was in other manses
where the occupants had been born to such
small preferment as had fallen to their share, '
and had not risen in the social scale. For in
the last case one of two opposite results is very
apt to ensue  unnecessary thrift degenerating
into meanness provokes hostility, scorn, and
ridicule, or unnecessary ignorant lavishness
leads swiftly to debt and disgrace. The Birken-
barns Manse life could hardly have been more

frugal though it had been led in a fairly well-to-do,
self-respecting, working man's household.
But it was also a wonderfully full life brimming
over for two of those who shared it, with
honourable duties, kindly acts to relations, and
even exquisite enjoyments.

End OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

London : Printed Y

fv'OTTISWOODE ASD CO., NEW-street Squab

AND PARLIAMENT Street

Marriages

AUTHOR OF

CfTOYENNE JaGELINE*'*

fh i, asia     *  * item



OF THE
UN IVLR.SITY
or ILLINOIS


V.3

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

ir

L161 O-1096

BY

SARAH Tatler

AUTHOR OP

SCOTCH FIRS   ' CITOYENNE JACQUELINE ' &c.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL III.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



lai rights reserved]

CONTENTS

OF

THE Tried VOLUME.

'HAMESUCKEN'

(CON'nNUED).
CHAPTER PAGE

VII. Life at Birkencraig 3

VIII. Bruce locks the Kirk Door on the Minister 29
IX. The Red-cross Ambulance Class . . . 60

X. * Hamestjcken ' . . .

XI. The Minister ' waited upon '

XII. 'Tiring AT THE PiN '

XIII. The End of the Honeymoon







(continued).

VOL. III. B

LIFE AT BIRKENCKAIG.

The household at Birkencraig, from Miss Kirkpatrick
the eldest member to the youngest
yawning housemaid, lounged and dawdled out
of bed at a late hour in the morning. It was
an exception to this rule that once or twice in
the year, whether it was summer or winter was
a wholly inconsequent matter, Bruce, in a fit of
superfluous energy, got up with the cock-crowing,
and either went on enterprising excursions
through the sleeping house to the pantry and
dairy to supply her pressing wants, or fasted for
half a dozen hours to the injury of her bodily
well-being and her temper. She made up

B 2

for the rare exertion by over-sleeping herself
on nearly every other day of the three hundred
and sixty-four days which were left.

The breakfast would be standing on the
table at Birkencraig with the work of the day
hardly begun, after the family at the Manse of
Birkenbarns had dined with their day and its
duties half over. But the lingering breakfast
was not the ladies' fault ; the culprit was Claud,
who, after what he called ' a beastly bad night,'
would stroll to the kennel and the stables
in his sappers between two and three o'clock
in the afternoon.

The elder Misses Kirkpatrick always spent
the greater part of their day, doubtless with a
reference to the chilly climate of Scotland, in
voluminous shawls and caps. The last were
more of a shelter than any bonnets, always
excepting Mary and Lily Kirkpatrick's bonnets,
which they wore on a corresponding principle.,
These, Bruce said, might have been hung up ina

museum as specimens of out-of-doors' headgear
for use, not show, belonging to antediluvian.
The sisters had in their day been
fond enough of smart clothes, not always in the
best taste though the clothes were worn by
gentle-folks and county people, witness the
tradition of the pea-green satin pelisse associated
with Miss Lily's young beauty, and the
rose-pink ball gown equally linked with the
morning glories of Miss Kirkpatrick's charms.
Now the sisters went in for comfort, pure and
unalloyed, in extreme dowdiness, which was
just saved from more reprehensible slovenliness
by the fact that those who practised it had
been reared in such of those laws of delicate personal
cleanliness and nicety of surroundings as
had reached their class forty or fifty years ago.
Neither could any smothering, huddling together
wraps altogether hide and disfigure the remains
of the Kirkpatrick beauty. It had reached the
stage of matronly bountifulness, though neither

of the two was a matron, and could successfully
carry a weight of drapery. Deep borders
flapping over the ears, and broad riband bows
filling up the space beneath the chi, were
powerless to affect the flowery fairness and
purity of colouring, and the fine lines of nose
and chin, which had no affinity to nut-crackers,
and remained intact after the contour of brow
and cheek was spoilt. Perhaps it was a proud
innate consciousness of the inability of dress
to rob them of what survived of the family
beauty, which made the elder Misses Kirkpatrick
so very elderly, unfashionable, and
devoted to ease in their attire. But it is more
probable that it was careless indifference to
appearances, in a rebound from the love of
admiration to the holding fast of comfort,
rather than keen discriminating vanity, which
actuated the pair. It was a relief to Bruce,
who was quickly alive to the sources of conspicuousness
and absurdity in her sisters, that

since Mary and Lily would be such ' old wives '
in their costumes, they could not help being
bonnie old wives.

Other reactions from what had been, presented
themselves at the Birkencraig breakfast-table.
The old laird, though he had not been
any more of a model than his son, had played
the martinet, an inclination which in Claud's
case only lingered in the strict discipline he was
inclined to enforce on his sister Bruce, with
unfair capriciousness, as it seemed to her. The
father of the family, a selfish, self-indulgent
man after his fashion, had prided himself on
displaying punctuality in his own person and
exacting it from others. So long as he ruled the
roost, the breakfast-table was cleared by half-past
ten whatever laggard suffered. In all
table etiquette he was precise and particular in
private as in public. Col, the butler, waited
behind his master's chair, when only the family
were there, as duly and decorously as when the

meet came round to Birkencraig and Mr. Kirkpatrick
dispensed the hunting breakfast, or
when the house was full of company about the
first of September. Mary, who had always sat
opposite her father at table after her mother's
death, dare not let a cup get out of its place,
or drop a lump of sugar, whoever were at her
elbow whispering soft nothings in her ear. Lily
could not give a scrap to a dog though her
four-footed friends begged and whimpered their
hearts out. Now all was changed. Nicol
chose the breakfast hour for reading the newspapers
before they had reached anyone else,
and systematically absented himself if the presence
of strangers did not make an urgent appeal
to his sense of honour for the credit of the
house, or unless Claud summoned and swore
over him for not having supplied something
the young man fancied he wanted.

Miss Kirkpatrick seated herself according
to the temperature of the room or the direction

of the wind, and pulled about or allowed others
to pull about the different articles on the table
till everything was in a state of admired confusion,
liable to end in the cream-jug's being
overturned or the coffee-pot capsized.

Lily not only fed her dogs, she opened the
French windows when the season Avould permit,
and enticed in long-legged, long-necked
cocks and hens lying in wait outside. These
invaders sprawled up the table and pecked
promiscuously at any food they could reach.
Pigeons followed, and whirling round the heads
of the circle alighted in the centre, and dabbed
right and left with short abrupt pecks. Bruce
often protested she might as well breakfast in a
menagerie, but it was only when Claud's step
was heard coming downstairs that the feathered
retainers were driven out.

The most energetic, enterprising person 
and Bruce was naturally energetic and enterprising
 could hardly help growing lazy and

purposeless at Birkencraig, where it was time to
think of inch before breakfast had vanished,
and it was not worth while so much as to propose
practising, or reading, or working  at so-called
work, in the short interval. Mary and
Lily, indeed, generally sauntered off ])y turns,
for one always mounted guard at the table,
amongst the wrecks of the meal, to look after
Claud's comforts and listen to his querulous
complaints and demands. This was an important
duty which could not be left to an inattentive,
impatient child like Bruce. The sentry off
duty went no farther than the housekeeper's
room, or the green-houses, or the poultry
yard, where, to the accompaniment of a perennial
broad stream of gossip, a trickle of business
was distilled drop by drop, in the familiar, half-clattering,
half-drowsy scene. Miss Kirkpatrick
made out the dinner to the satisfaction of Mattie,
the short in stature, short in wind, but long-tongued
old housekeeper and cook, who was as

homely as Nicol was pompous. Yet she closely
resembled hun in this respect, that she had not
the slightest idea of doing anything but taking
her own way, always saving where the young
master's flights and furies were concerned.

In spite of Claud, who had no strength of
character or capacity to rule in his self-will
and passion, Liberty Hall had been established
at Birkencraig to a great extent from the date
of the old laird's failing health and death ;
and the servants, whose places had become
sinecures, while their perquisites were established
privileges, showed themselves determined,
so far as it lay with them, to prolong
this agreeable state of matters indefinitely.

Lily would over-feed her feathered friends a
little more till they began to bluster and brawl
and knocked the plate or basket out of her
hands, and fought among her feet for the last
remnants of her generous largesses. She would
imagine she was cutting clusters of grapes, or

pulling nectarines, or gathering camellias as
she chose, when she was in reality humbly
suggesting that she or Miss Kirkpatrick or Miss
Bruce or the Laird would like one or two, and
having them doled out to her by the grumbling
lame gardener, who had fallen off a ladder in
the family's service twenty years before, and
traded on the accident to this day. The dole
was bestowed with a grudging sparingness,
which was in broad contrast to her own liberal
donations to her dogs, cats, and fowls.

If any further business were done, it was
in a series of interviews sought by the ladies'
pensioners, and never denied them ; indeed, it
would have been difficult to say who would
have lost most by the denial. The pauperised,
gadding, chattering claimants would walk a
mile or two to Birkencraig on the excuse of
getting an old pair of boots or stockings, a
bundle of ' odds and ends '  as often old trashy
finery as anything else, an apron full of broken

meat or fallen apples, a glass of ginger Vine.
Mattie and Nicol took care nothing better
should be got, and all of these the recipients
could have done as well or a great deal better
without, or they might have procured equivalents
without any great trouble to themselves,
while not one was worth the work forsaken for
its sake.

On the other hand, the Misses Kirkpatrick
were free and almost bound to enter into all
the minutiae of their clients' private histories,
and to become the confidantes of a hundred
secrets, which fed the simple ladies' sense of
self-importance, and stirred and diverted them
more than the fictitious adventures of the hero
and heroine of the most sensational romance
the only romance they cared for.

Sometimes Bruce, for want of anything
better to do, hung about the house and grounds
with one or other of her sisters, when she Avould
either be sarcastic and scornful of the day of such

very small things, or she would have fits of
remorse for her superciliousness, when she
would tell herself with truth that Mary and
Lily were far better than she was. They acted
up to their light, they were always contented
and good-natured, and they were for some
good in the world, while she was for none, if
she were not for evil like Claud.

Visitors and visiting belonged to the hours
after lunch. Miss Kirkpa trick and Miss Lily
sometimes sat in their morning gowns in the
drawing-room knitting or proceeding endless
clumsy coarse pieces of knitting or crochet 
either charity slop-work or ornamental slopwork,
which taxed neither their eyes nor their
attention, and could have been done far better
and in a tithe of the time by any brisk old woman
or smart school-board girl in the parish. The
ladies waited at home for any chance caller 
generally some elderly lady like themselves,
who clung to old acquaintances and an old

house on lier visiting list. With her the
hostesses went cheerfully into the better class
gossip of the neighbourhood.

At other times the sisters drove out in their
warmest out-of-door wraps in the somewhat
battered family phaeton and paid return visits.
The seniors of the house welcomed five o'clock
tea after these strenuous efforts  as heartily as
if the refreshment had been well worked for
and abundantly deserved.

Miss Kirkpatrick and Miss Lily still went
through the form of dressing for dinner', though
it was becoming more and more of a bore to
them, and their soft cosy morning shawls and
equally soft cosy morning caps kept intruding
in place of fluttering fly-away lace shawls, and
caps which were certainly more appropriate in
company with the silk gowns.

So far this was Birkencraig life untroubled
by Claud, and even so far it was a drowsy,
gaping, wearisome life for a young girl, spec

i ally a young girl of some spirit and mind.
And Claud proved a fermenting element that,
like bad yeast, leavened, soured, and disturbed
everything without raising it into a wholesome
higher stage of development. Claud came in
growing to his breakfast. He tramped out
and in, always bringing with him currents of
crossness and perversity, swaggering and bullying
throughout the morning. He would give
himself out as falling to pieces  in which the
miserable lad was not far wrong  and have
recourse to bitters, fillips, and pick-me-ups.
Thus solaced and strengthened, he would go off
to sales or fairs or sporting matches instead of
staying for luncheon. His temporary absence
was a respite even to his devoted sisters, though
it left the shadow of an anxious care in the
distance. Or he would bring in to lunch company
unsuitable to sit down with the ladies of the
house, or with respectable women of any class,
the fallen star and reprobate. Lord Sandy ;

fast, foolish young farmers who aped the vices
of the vicious lairds and fawned on them with
the view of rising by their aid in the social
scale ; half put out, half blustering horse-dealers
with whom Claud was for ever dabbling ; still
flashed, more offensive nondescript men, who
wore diamond rings on not over-clean hands,
and came from the large towns, meeting Claud
by appointment at Birkencraig or in Sauchope.
The last mentioned of these worthies had made
Claud's acquaintance under Lord Sandy's
auspices. The elder Misses Kirkpatrick referred
to them under the vague definition of business
men, though Mr. Go van, the family lawyer,
was never seen in their company. Bruce, who
had gone through her curriculum of r.ovel-
reading, supposed these must be the men who
cheated Claud by tempting him with bargains
of Ind wine, bad cigars, bad guns, bad driving-harness,
bad machines for the farm, bad clothes,
bad everything, and who must somehow com-vol.

III. c

bine money-leading at illegal interest with
cheating.

When such company appeared in the
dining-room Bruce held up her head stiffly and
scarcely opened her lips, behaving like ' a
saucy baggage' as Claud asserted, proceeding
to use still coarser words, in language deteriorating
with the company he kept.

The elder Misses Kirkpatrick were always
civil to their boy's guests, but a red spot rose
and settled on each cheek and a constrained
tone stole into their frank speech, uttered with
voices just a little loud for women though
sweet withal, as their accents were a trifle
broad for ladies.

In wet weather the strange men would
retire with Claud to the billiard room, where
Nicol would soon be rung for to bring bottles
and glasses. Cards would succeed billiards,
and the noisy hubbub, which Mary and Lily
would pretend not to hear, or insist on regarding

as a matter of course where gentlemen
were concerned, would subside into more
business-like stillness. It would not be Claud's
fault if the company declined to stay to dinner,
with a rather slow perception of his incapacity
to stand the situation much longer.

They dare not face us,' Bruce would cry
in her fiery way. ' If they did, I almost believe
I must tell them what I think, after what
they've done to Claud.'

Oh! hush, Brucie,' interposed her eklers,
'that would be dreadful; you would make
yourself notorious. Nobody would ever let it
down on you. A young girl has nothing to do
with how men choose to spend their time.
Besides, what have these gentlemen ' (' gentlemen
! ' repeated Bruce with bitter emphasis)
done to Claud ? The poor boy is simply worn
out. You know he is not strong, you meddlesome
hard-hearted girl, he gets so excited while
he is not able for excitement. He will have a
c 2

sleep in his dressing-room and be all right
again presently.'

Bruce did not adopt the explanation. ' I
wish it would not rain when such people come
here,' she said gloomily, ' though it would not
matter much. There are always the poor
pigeons for them to shoot at, and bet upon, or I
have known somebody take off his hat and make
that the aim, with the rest laying wagers on
sae hits and misses. Yes, and all this is such
thirsty work, while there are pocket pistols
which hold neither powder nor eliot. Oh I I
cannot profess to be a goose like you two.'

I think it is worse to affect to be knowing,'
retorted one of the others with unwonted
sharpness ; ' but the truth is, you are young and
know nothing at all  not even that men must
have sport of some kind.'

And what must women have  women Who
cannot shut their eyes ? ' Bruce asked herself in
despair.

The visiting circle of Birkencraig was
always narrowing, especially where the younger
members of the family were in question.
There were prudent fathers and mothers who
would not have Claud Kirkpatrick, reeking with
the fumes of Lord Sandy's company, to come
among their young sons and daughters. Because
they would not have Claud, they could not well
ask his sister Bruce to join their sets. There
were other families not so particular, but Bruce
gradually grew to hate accompanying Claud to
picnics or carpet dances or lawn games, for
even when he had not the opportunity of forgetting
every obligation, he "seas sure to be
capricious, quarrelsome, and rude. Insensibly
Bruce became affected by the association, and
took her tone from him. She, too, was
capricious, and if not quarrelsome and rude, she
grew flighty and sharp-tongued at her neighbours'
expense. She began to be spoken of
and shunned as ' that odd disagreeable girl,

Bruce Kirkpatrick.' It did not by any means
follow that she admired Claud's manner, but
she must stand by him so far as she might.
She coukl not have him blamed alone by the
ungenerous public that did not stop to make
the smallest allowance for the boy's sickly
constitution, defective education, and unhappy
temper.

Sometimes the impulse seized on Claud to
drive one or more of his sisters to Sauckope
or any of the next towns to which he had
innumerable errands. The offer was always
received as a pleasing compliment by the
elder ladies and never refused even by Bruce.
But it was a compliment for which the complimented
persons were secretly conscious, from
the beginning, they would pay so high a price,
that tke pleasure  even of those who remained
most resolutely blind to what was to come, was
still considerably dashed with fear and trembling.
The going was well enough. Claud

was himself and generally in good humour then,
though his good humour was never to be depended
upon, and was at the best streaked with
surliness. Then he drove recklessly, finding a
curious stimulus and enjoyment in proportion
to the apprehensions he awoke. None of the
Kirkpatrick women had been born with weak
nerves, and it was only the fact that Mary had
once been mixed up with a terrible carriage
accident, that had shaken her equanimity where
driving was concerned, so that she lost colour
and trembled when a horse stumbled or reared
or took a corner too abruptly. This infirmity
of Mary's only provoked Claud to laughter,
and incited him to fresh hair-breadth exploits,
if she were in the company, with her feelings
ready to be victimised.

Arrived at their destination, the party
separated for a time. Claud had always his
own business to transact, while he would not
suffer a parcel of women to look on at the

transaction, as if he had continued a baby in
leading-strings to his sisters, who ought to
feel obliged to him for his countenance sofar,
in taking them out behind his ' cattle.'
Therefore the ladies were left to their own
devices.

After the Misses Kirkpatrick had spun out
their shopping and other engagements to the
utmost stretch, the ladies repaired to the hotel
at which the trap and horse were put up.
There followed a weary season of waiting, till
the blood began to get hot or cold, the heart
to throb or beat more and more slowly. Claud
appeared to lose all sense of time, place, and
proper conditions in the transaction of his
business. The ladies would beguile the dragging
hours by drinking tea, by trying to eat
supper in place of dinner, with the poor prospect
for elderly delicate women of driving
an eight or ten miles' drive home, in an open
dog-cart, and in the chill and darkness  if it

were not the height of summer, when it was
long past night-fall. Ears would be on the
rack for hours, and the strongest nerves
strained past bearing, while as a small excuse
for the evident discomfort of the group, ostentatious
inquiries would be made again and
again about the state of the night lamps, as if
the darkness were the thing most to be feared.
Claud would alive at last  but not with
the overflowing though stammering apologies,
the eagerness to atone, the ready penitence
and sincere though fleeting regret which causes
many a sweet-tempered, foolish man to be
freely forgiven by the victims of his inveterate
thoughtlessness and self-indulgence.

Claud Kirkpatrick would take the first
word of furious scolding with what speech was
left to him, and as everybody, including the landlord
and hostlers, shrank from exposing him in
such presence, nobody dared answer, far less
contradict him. Even Bruce was silent herewith

a set face and whitening hips. The sisters
crept into the clog-cart and huddled themselves
down in their places. Nobody ventured to
remonstrate when, stumbling after them, Claud
cut with his whip at the impatient horse. The
landlord and his men would spring out of the
way and follow to the entrance of the yard,
standing looking blankly at the turn-out, as
after its first violent start it went tearing down
the street. Some cautious man would shake
his head, some friendly spirit take the liberty
of exclaiming, ' God help the poor ladies ! '
But who could interpose ?

The horror  sometimes in part a grotesque
horror, of that drive home was only known to
the women, who never spoke of it even among
themselves afterwards. Bruce was perfectly
reticent on this point. Mary Kirkpatrick's teeth
would keep chattering, and she would go on
clutching desperately at the side of the dogcart,
though she contrived to refrain from

maddening Claud by screaming aloud. Bruce
knew that if they reached Birkencraig with
their lives and without broken bones, still her
eldest sister, a strong woman nationally, would
remain for weeks shaken and more ailing than
Lily was in these later days, in consequence of
the expedition.

Claud would sway from side to side, and
suddenly nod as if he were being rocked in a
cradle, while Bruce would first observe by the
struggling dim moonbeams or the flickering
light of the lamps, when she lead to ran the
risk of awakening him, that he had put the
back of his hat foremost, like a Christy minstrel,
or like a boy, ' guiding ' at new year, had unwittingly
accomplished a moustache on one
cheek by blackening it with the end of his
extinguished cigar. She had a hysterical inclination
to laugh, though she knew that the
next moment they might all be dashed into the
road or over the low parapet of the bridge they

had to cross, or down the steep brae they
skirted. But if God would only have mercy
on their souls, a sudden, violent death might
not be the worst thing which could befall them
not so great a misfortune when life was so
poor and empty, so harassing, mortifying,
tiresome, and joyless as it was at Birkencraig
to Bruce Kirkpatrick.

CHAPTEE Vii

BRUCE LOCKS THE KIRK DOOR ON THE MINISTER.

Bruce was not free from the extra vacant love
of pleasure in any form in which it presented
itself to her, with the attendant disregard of
consequences, which had been a marked feature
in the composition of the Kirkpatricks of that
and the previous generations. Perhaps the
tenor of her life added to this family trait an
individual inclination to snatch at every passing
enjoyment and small entertainment which
came in her way, and be mischievous with a
shade of malice in indulging some of her
fancies. Her lot was hard, or seemed so to
her, and she had not at this time a fine enough

character to accept the worst and make it the
best m the name of her Lord and King. She
had not yet forgotten or forgiven the circumstance
of the minister's treating her like a child
or an incapable young lady  somebody quite
apart from him and Eachie. She was in danger
of retaliating whenever it was in her power.

Unluckily she had soon a ludicrous chance
of revenging herself for the small injury, and
provoking Wat Baillie in turn  a chance of
which she did not hesitate to avail herself.

Without question, ladies of all ages, women
of earnest, delicate minds, should be above the
boyish escapades, horse-play, and tomfoolery of
practical jokes. But the elder Miss Kirkpatrickss
and their chosen squires had not been
by any means above such simple diversion.
Mary and Lily often retailed, with lingering glee,
to Bruce the tricks which had been played
on unsuspicious visitors and green admirers
of the fair daughters of the house, even though

the discovery of the pranks was sure to provoke
the wrath of the laird. Birkencraig had then been
full of giddy, heedless young people, who had
seen livelier, less care-haunted, precarious days
than any Kirkpatrick was ever likely to see again.

Bruce had listened to the stories, sometimes
relishing them, sometimes thinking them silly,
but not condemning them on other grounds.
Now she was going to perpetrate a joke on her
own account.

Bruce happened to pass the parish kirk and
kirk-yard in one of her solitary walks to find
the first spring orchis on the Craig, of which,
like all lovers of nature in the neighbourhood,
she was passionately fond. An idle impulse led
her to go in and linger among the graves.

There was no sadness or even pensiveness in
the act, for Bruce, though she had strong feelings,
was not sentimental ; at that date she was
even a little hard, with the danger of getting
harder in her youthful isolation and 

philosophy. Her father, mother, and one
or two baby brothers and sisters lay in a
corner, in the shadow of what had once been a
fine Dutch tombstone of marble showing remains
of gilding. It had been brought all the
way from Holland two hundred years before,
as if in evidence of the comparative antiquity
and former spare money of the Kirkpatricks.
Bruce did not care at all for the tombstone,
and thought its puffy-faced cherubs hideous.
Her mother and the babies had been literally
unknown to her. Her father she could recall,
and he had been fond of her, with a little of
Claud's capriciousness and exactions, as an old
man who is not without heart is fond of the
child of his age. It had been a sort of
grandfather relation. But he had been
breaking up in mind no less than in body as far
back as Bruce's memory carried her. while she
had been only an ignorant, unconscious child,
unable to understand and bear with his infirmities.

She had been frightened and repelled by
many things in connection with him, and there
had been natural shrinking from him as Avell as
tenderness for him in her little heart. There
had been a greater sense of relief in thinking of
poor papa as released from all his ailments, and
gone to be happy with mamma and her babies
and the angels in heaven, than longing for him
to return at the time of his death ; and there
was still a conviction of its beinsr well and fit
that the last and biggest mound should have
been added to that cluster of mounds, which
prevented all pain or even wistful yearning as
Bruce gazed on the resting-place of her kindred.
There was nothing to detain her there, nothing
to impress, soften and sober lier. She turned
away to speculate composedly, even with that
craving for amusement which is usually so conspicuous
and so incessantly at work in youthful
minds. She was in a mood to smile at every
exaggerated panegyric, incongruous figure, halt -

VOL. Ill, D

ing verse, and bold or feeble example of spelling
in the records around her. All meditations
among the tombs are not so solemn as Hervey's.
Boys and girls will be moved to laugh and jest
there as elsewhere. It does not follow on that
account that they are heartless ; what says the
old song : 

Serena' my heart licht, I would dee.

But for its volatility youth would never be
able to bear its burdens and ripen into maturity
and age. And at her most thoughtless moment,
if Bruce had come across the last bed of some
girl like herself, a familiar acquaintance, cut
down in the spring-time of her days, if she had
even encountered the record of some loss which
she knew had wrung a living heart with deepest
anguish, she would have been arrested and impressed
for the hour. But in place of such
tokens, Bruce only noticed that the kirk-door
stood open, with the key hanging in the lock.

Now the kirk-yard was always open, the

gate being defended by nothing more formidable
than a latch which even a child could lift.
But to the credit of the children and country
people who at certain seasons passed through,
following a footpath which was a right of way
among the graves, and led eventually by a near
cut to the parish school and the village, between
which and the church the school stood midway,
the place was a good deal more respected than
if it had been protected by bolts and bars. The
sacred ground was very plain and homely, and
the grass was a little tedded, with wild flowers
nodding in it, but it was as fresh and free from
stain as sun, wind, and rain could make it.

The only houses within sight were God's
house close at hand, with an ivy screen on three
of the four walls, and lichens silvering and gilding
the roof, which had been left of grey stone,
and the manse, with its blue slates and shining
windows half hidden in its umbrageous garden.
Beyond rose the wild, free Craig, which, though

D 2

it belonged to a hardship, was still in a sense
nobody's land, since any vagabond or tramp
could climb it and lie down and sleep among
its shaggy verdure, which was not so verdant
that it had not the distinct bluish purple tint
which marks out virgin from cultivated land.

If anyone calls it desecration for small
fingers to pull a white horse-gowan, or a bloodred
cock-rose, or for a weary wight to sit down
on a convenient mossy tombstone above some
former wayfarer who needed the staff" of life
no longer, and munch a mouthful of bread and
cheese or bacon, and swallow a draught of
milk or beer or cold tea, as the birds pecked
the seeds among the grass, and drank the water
which gathered in rainy weather in hollows
of the road, then Birkenbarns Kirk-yard was
desecrated, not otherwise.

But though the kirk-yard gate yielded hospitably
to all applicants, the kirk door itself was
locked fast from Sunday to Sunday, or as many

unyielding Scotch tongues continue to say, with
a dogged misappropriation of the Jewish term,
from Sabbath to Sabbath. The exceptions
were when the minister held his week-day
classes or meetings either in the church or the
vestry, which was also the session-house. This
was a room with whitewashed walls and schoolroom
desk and benches opening from the
church. Here were held the meetings of the
respectable body of elders  known collectively
as the Kirk Session, whose management of parish
affairs Bruce had rashly stigmatised ; and here
the minister was wont to put on and off his
Geneva gown, though many an excellent man in
hot weather stripped the same from his back in
the eyes of the congregation, and hung it
without ceremony, like a black flag, over the
pulpit railing, preaching in his coat, in which
he was fully persuaded his ministrations were
as reverent, and his sermon as good and as
likely to be profitable to this hearers.

There was not the most distant idea of a
daily service at Birkenbarns, or of keeping
the church open so that passers-by might enter
in and muse and hold their private devotions
there. The Scotch mind clings tenaciously
to the grand dogma that God is not confined
to temples made with hands. Though it
has got rid in a great measure of the turbulent
independence which tempted it in former
centuries to ' ding toon ' old cathedrals,
and behave with conspicuous, studied indifference
more than bordering on irreverence
even in its own cherished kirks, and before its
own esteemed ministers, just to show that it
had no undue superstitious respect for places
or persons, it still maintains stoutly that a
man can say his prayers as well in his own
house or in the fields as in any church.
Whether or not the Scotch mind is right in
this respect, it is certain that Scotch houses
have not become prayerless above all other

houses because of this bold conviction. When
public halls are not available, the authorities
without hesitation grant the kirks for secular,
political, philanthropic meetings. The established
custom of Iceland has been adopted in
cases of need, and the sacred buildings converted
into places of shelter for distressed
strangers, shipwrecked sailors, even belated
holiday makers  ever since the far-back times
of civil war when regiments  some of Jacobite,
some of Hanoverian troopers  were freely
quartered in the parish churches on Saturday
night itself. On these occasions remote worshippers
coming, without express warning,
across the hills and down the meadows for
their Sabbath prayers and sermons, found the
edifices full of redcoats  men of war who had
sometimes the grace to stay  arousing much
speculation in the congregations, and listen to
the ministers who mounted the pulpit stairs to
deliver a message of peace.

Thus it happened that Bruce Kirkpatrick,
like the rest of the world, while she sometimes
called the church God's house, and was careful
of her behaviour there during the service on the
Lord's day, attached no particular sanctity to
the building at other seasons, when she was as
likely to play her pranks there as elsewhere.

It was an unusual event to find the church
door ajar, with the key in the lock, on an
afternoon, not an evening, and that not on an
afternoon answering to the date of one of the
minister's meetings. There was not so much
as the excuse of organ or choir practising, for
there was no organ at Birkenbarns, though the
minister, being among the young blood and the
new lights in the church, that had seen the
world and worshipped in other sanctuaries
besides those of their country and nation, had
no objection to ' a kist fu o' whistles ' in his
kirk. As for the choir, it was of the most
rustic description, and could never assemble

during working hours, even if its assembling
were not chronicled with other parish business
in the weekly announcements from the pulpit.

Bruce had to think and recollect that there
had been a proclamation which answered to the
open door. There had been that morning a
meeting of ' heritor,' or parish lairds, who pay
the tithes for the farmers. Claud had been
summoned to attend  a summons which he had,
as a matter of course, neglected, though none
would inveigh more loudly against any repairs
of the kirk or manse, which had been voted
without his knowledge or consent.

Being endowed with a full share of her
mother Eve's curiosity, Bruce went lightly forward,
and peering in at one of the lower church
windows which had been opened, saw the big,
almost burly, form of Wat Bailie coming
leisurely into the church from the session-house,
where he had no doubt gone to lock up any
extracts he might have craved from the clerk's

minutes, and to take care that no private
papers had been left to the mercy of the
beadle, or 'bethel.' This was a functionary
quite distinct from the minister's man, one who
in uniting the offices of church officer and grave-digger,
shut the minister every sabbath into his
pulpit as on some week day he would shut the
minister's body into its grave. On him the
minor duty of locking the door now devolved.
After entering the church the Eev. Wat,
unconscious of any observer, stood still and
appeared to contemplate reflectively a crack
above one of the windows. He might be
wondering whether it were weather-tight, or
ought to be put down on the hist of ' called for
repairs.' Or he might be merely regarding the
neighbouring window blind, and speculating on
its working, which was certainly defective since
it sometimes refused to be pulled either up or
down, while an eccentric old lady, with weak
eyes, belonging to the parish and sitting in this

quarter, had been known to render herself a
stumbling-block to all the youth present by-putting
up her parasol in a flood of sunshine,
and cocking it in the face of the contumacious
blind.

Seeing the minister in his innocent brown
study, the spirit of mischief suddenly entered
into the gazer. She whisked round to the
church door, closed and locked it with a regardless
bang and clatter, and when the startled
man looked about him in great surprise, and
called out, ' Hey ! Mathie, I'm not out yet ;
open the door again,' he was met by a peal
of audacious laughter which was certainly not
Mathie's. Casting his bewildered eyes out of
the window opposite him, they beheld the
alarming spectacle of Bruce Kirkpatrick actually
skipping to the eminence of the nearest raised
flat tomb-stone, brandishing in one hand the
ponderous keys of the kirk door, and in the
other holding the end of the long rope of the

kirk bell which hung in the porch. ' I have
you now, Mr. Baillie,' she cried exultingly ;
you did not think me fit for a teacher, and
you see what I'm up to. I have locked you
into your own church ; you are my prisoner
at my mercy. If you dare to attempt to scale
a wall and escape by a window, I'll toll the
bell and summon the whole parish before you
have reached the manse.'

Wat hardly doubted that she would keep
her word. ' You have taken me by surprise,
Miss Bruce,' he tried to say, as quietly as
possible. ' How are you ? How are your
sisters ? When do you mean to let me out ? '
lie parleyed with the foe.

Not till there has been a hue and cry
raised on your behalf,' she answered, stamping
with her foot to accentuate the rocking motion
of the stone, which she seemed to relish. It
rested on its pillars unevenly, and swayed from
side to side, and she bent herself with the

pretty grace and glee of a child to the see-saw.
I told you what an important person you
were, and you pretended not to believe it,
while you taunted me with my insignificance.
Yes, you did, though of course you did it hypocritically
 congratulating me on the dignity
of having to wait. You will now have a little
of that experience yourself.'

Don't talk nonsense,' he begged. ' There
is no harm in it, and it is amusing in its own
way, and at the proper season. But you will
understand, if you will reflect for a moment,
this is not the place or time, besides I have an
engagement this afternoon. Do you hear.
Miss Bruce ? ' he called more imperatively, for
he had just remembered with dismay that he
had an appointment in less than a quarter of
an hour with a labouring man's son, who had
contrived to go to college, and what was more to
come back with credit. The student desired to
put modestly to his predecessor in quitting the

ploughshare for the academic hall, the perplexing
question, ' What next ? ' Wat, in spite
of his experience, was as much at a loss for an
answer as the most of us are in similar circumstances,
but all the same he would not fail the
lad for the world. It would be too bad if the
unjustifiable trick of an idle young lady, even
though she happened to be Miss Bruce Kirkpatrick,
should detain him beyond his time.

I wish you to speak sense now,' he
urged.

I don't care,' she replied, with cheerful
indifference. 'I don't half believe you. Do
reverent ministers ever tell fibs? You did
not give me credit for speaking sense.'

He was divided between perplexity and
annoyance and a strong sense of the ludicrousness
of the situation. He had a remarkably
mild temper, and would be the last man. to
stand on his dignity ; still he had an objection
to being laughed at and set at nought, in his

cliurcli too, by a girl eight or ten years his
junior. Perhaps it did not lessen the objection
that the offender was Miss Bruce Kirkpatrick
 the fairy little lady of old. He had
not had very much experience in dealing with
gay young ladies ; altogether he made the
mistake of showing he was put out.

You force me to remind you again, Miss
Kirkpatrick, as I have done already, that there
is a time for everything. Unfortunately, this
afternoon does not suit me for child's play,'
he exclaimed, in a vexed, impatient tone.

Oh, I am a child now,' she caught at the
word. ' I thought it would come to that. Do
you know, Mr. Baillie, that I was twenty on
my last birthday ? '

And do you know,' he prepared to cap
her statement, ' I am nearly thirty, and I am
your minister, whom you are bound to treat
with fitting respect ? ' he ended, half in jest,
half in earnest.

If you preach another word I'll ring the
bell,' she threatened, poising herself with difficulty
on the most tottering pinnacle of the
stone, so that he was in the liveliest apprehension
she might at any instant topple over
and come down with a thundering thump,
breaking her head like an Irish reaper, or
fracturing her arm or spraining her ankle,
like a young lady in a novel. In either case
what should he do, and how absurdly the
story would sound. What would the Misses
Kirkpatrick and the brother say? What
would the elders and the parish think? If
gravity and decorum were to be looked for
in any man, it ought to be in a clergyman,
whether young or old.

'It will be high time to ring the bell, you
know, to summon people to the sermon,' she
was explaining, nodding her head in the airiest,
most exasperatingly confidential manner. ' I
am not going to have another one all to

myself, like that I had to listen to coming
back from the Bog-o'-mony-stanes.'

'Did you find that so very tiresome ? ' he
asked, in a slightly piqued tone, which was
foolish ; but the wisest of men have their
weaknesses.

Dreadfully tiresome,' she owned, with perfect
candour and coolness.

What possible motive can you have
beyond the purest mischief in keeping me
here and forcing me to break my word? I
shall be too late for a person who has walked
miles to see me.'

The more fool he ! Are you sure it is
not she? I beg your pardon, I mean out
of church, on a week-day. Alien you are on
the spot you are standing on now, wearing
your gown and bands, walking with your
hands crossed before you, and your eyes either
on the floor or in mid-air looking at nothing,
you are entirely master of the situation ; but

VOL. III. K

you will allow it is the outsider who has the
advantage at the present moment. Mr. Bailie,
honour bright," as Claud used to adjure us,
when he was younger and nicer  little boys
are so much nicer than big boys  don't you
think so ? Is there such a person as the one
you have alluded to ? '

Of course there is. Miss Bruce,' exclaimed
the minister eagerly, with the dawning hope
of release. ' What do you take me for ? '

It will do him no harm to wait,' observed
Bruce, with gentle meditativeness. 'It is his
turn, and he Avill not be kicking his heels or
grinding his teeth. He will be receiving the
hospitality of the manse, which Mrs. Baillie
will have the opportunity of dispensing to him.
They will wonder a little what has become of
you, I daresay, but I cannot flatter you by
promising their anxiety will spoil their appetites.
Besides, the adventure is not like that
in the '' Mistletoe Bough." This is Thursday ;

you will manage to survive two days without
food, and a great deal more than your skeleton
will be found on Sunday. People are so cold-blooded,
and take everything so much for
granted nowadays, that they are not likely
to send and seek for you.'

I do not know that,' he muttered under
his breath, with a new sense of confusion and
annoyance. He would rather almost anything
should come to pass than that his mother should
arrive on the scene, or even that she should
send his father or Eachie and so discover his
plight. In many things the Eev. Wat was as
ignorant and simple-minded as a baby or as
Bruce herself, but he had a more correct idea
of the compromising folly of her behaviour.
Caesar's wife was bound to be beyond suspicion
a young lady should be above the merest
approach to romping, so should a clergyman.
He tried one more remonstrance. ' Miss Bruce,
don't be so foolish ; we have had enough of

this.' He grew severe in the exigency of the
circumstances. ' Consider all that would be

said if anybody came up and found '

I don't care what people would say ; I wish to
make a commotion by ringing the church bell,
and seeing the people running up panting and
staring:, thinking the church was on fire. There
is nothing save a fire which could happen in
this circumscribed sphere. The tower might
have been struck by lightning, only we have
not lead a thunder-storm for weeks. More
likely you and Mathie Dobie have been so careless
as to leave lucifer matches lying about the
session-house, and rats and mice have trodden
upon them and set them off. The false alarm
would be awfully jolly.' Bruce began to
laugh, was in danger of losing her balance,
sought to recover it, and, in pulling herself together,
jerked the string of the bell and caused
it to emit a throttled toll.

Oh ! for Heaven's sake, don't do that ! '

cried the minister iu despair. ' What do
you want ? What would you have me todo?'
.

I would have you keep from profane
swearing,' said Bruce steadily. ' What word
was that you uttered just now ? You are aware
we call that, as you have used it, a bad word
in Scotland ; and you, a minister ! Oh ! Mr.
Baillie, I am astonished ! 1 am shocked ! '

You would provoke a saint to swear,' he
said to himself. He leant back against the
window-frame, wiped his forehead, and permitted
himself to indulge in a dream of retaliation
and revenge.

If I could catch that lassie, I would give
her something to mend her manners, and make
her mind what she is about.'

It has been said that the most conspicuous
indication of the Eev. Wat's origin, as it still
lingered in his bearing, was what is to be found
in most self-made men who are thorough gentlemen,

in undervaluing their claims and exaggerating
their defects, and in remaining at heart
as unassuming as when they started in the race
of Hfe which has carried them beyond their
early contemporaries. There was a shade of
stiffness, a degree of elaboration, an approach
to old-fashioned stateliness in the young man.
But this was only a conscious  the one self-conscious,
thing about Wat Baillie, come of his
rusticity. Beneath it lie was still capable in
his manliness and goodness of breaking out and
expressing himself, both by word and act, in a
primitive manner, which, however transparently
innocent, would have better become a peasant
than a peer let us say. There are nature's
gentlemen everywhere ; but it takes three
generations, so the world reckons, to make a
conventional gentleman.

He sought to defy her, as he ought to have
done in the beginning. ' I don't care, Miss
Bruce, according to your favourite declaration ;

do you hear ? I am going to take a nap in
the pulpit

It is no more than your due, after all the
naps we have had in the seats. But you ought
to have a lulling voice in your ears to send
you over sweetly to the land of dreams. Shall
I say something ? I mean, shall I repeat some
of my old schoolroom recitations ? '

No, thanks ; you need not trouble to wait
any longer. You'll miss something or other 
your afternoon tea. I shall not miss mine
particularly, since I had a good dinner. I shall
be all the hungrier for the next meal, after I
have been traced. Don't wait ; good-bye.
On second thoughts I shall not take a nap, but
compose my next week's sermon, and put into
it '

I'll ring the bell ! '

Do. Let us have it all  the entire programme.
The tired people in the fields and
cottages will be frightened out of their wits.

Weary already with their day's work, they will
weary themselves still further by hurrying hereto
find they have been taken in and made game
of by an idle young lady.'

The permission was a dangerous experiment,
but it answered his purpose. She did
not accept it. 'You don't send me to the
manse to tell them why you have not returned,'
she remarked, in a more forced manner, as if
the joke were beginning to pall and fall to
pieces.

No, don't trouble yourself,' he pursued
his advantage ; ' I was only going to say that I
have given in. I am in your power to make
me look like a fool without any fault of mine,
or else  but I prefer the first alternative, to
cause me to appear to act with discourtesy and
unkindness to a good fellow  as good as myself
 very likely a great deal better. Miss
Bruce, don't abuse your power, when I ask

it as a favour if you will put back the key in
the door, turn the lock, and let me out.'

Why did you not say that before ? ' demanded
Bruce, in an aggrieved tone, leaping
down from her tombstone, walking straight to
the door, opening it, and holding out her hand.
Will you shake hands with me after what
I've done? Will you ever forgive me? I
hope I have not really inconvenienced you. It
was very wild and thoughtless of me, but you
see I am a good deal sat upon  one way
and another,' she said the words with a struggling
sigh. 'Though Mary and Lily are the
kindest souls breathing, and poor Claud cannot
altogether help being out of joint  as the
whole world is some people say, I do not
often get my head out. You are not very
angry at a stupid piece of fun ? '

No, no ; don't mention it,' he assured her.
more abashed by her penitence than by her

raillery, while she looked up with her fearless
bright brown eyes in his face. ' I am glace
you have such fine spirits, only you will allow
me to say you should keep them under control,
when they interfere  :  '

With the freedom of the subject.' She
took the word out of his mouth, with a return
of roguishness in her eyes and speech, ' especially
the ministerial subject. But I do respect
my minister, if you will believe me, Mr.
Baillie ; I meant no offence, as poor people
say.'

Well, no offence is taken ; you may see
that,' he said, with a little grufihess, to hide
some other feeling, as he took the hand held
out to him. ' You are all well at Birkencraig ?
Miss Lily does not suffer from the east wind ? '
forgetting that he had asked for both sisters
long before.

But after he had parted from Bruce at the
churchyard gate in a perfectly matter-of-fact

manner, he said to himself in a tone of foreboding,
as he strode towards the manse, making
up for lost time, 'That poor lassie will get
herself and somebody else into a bad scrape
before she has done.'

CHAPTER IX.

THE Red-cross AMBULANCE CLASS.

Bruce Kirkpatrick did not meet the minister
of Birkenbarns again, out of church, unless
in the most cursory way, until spring had
passed into summer, summer into autumn,
and the heat of harvest was over. As far as
they knew, nobody except themselves was
acquainted with her escapade on the spring
afternoon. It would be hard to say whether
or not the recollection never returned to them
out of season, in the very scene of the poor
little joke ; whether, when her eyes chanced
to glance out of a particular window and fall
on a certain flat tombstone, the corners of her

mouth did not curl ever so slightly, and she
would put down her head and occupy herself
with her book. It might be that he was moved
by the sense of a secret between them, however
trifling, while he was quick to follow her glance,
interpret her expression, and even respond toit
with a fleeting twinkle of his grey eyes.

Good people have been considerably exercised
by the relation or non-relation between
humour and godliness ; whether the two qualities
can be coexistent, and whether the first will survive
in a higher sphere. Surely whatever is
purely human comes near to the divine. The
perpetual union of pathos with humour shows
its grand capabilities. A passing reflection of
mirth, a momentary realisation of the quaint
and grotesque in the most serious mind, can no
more disturb a healthy humble awe and
reverence and hearty piety, than a child's
crow will introduce a jarring discord into a
grandsire's prayer. Wat Baillie was filled with

his message, and was as locally, blissfully in
earnest as man could be. It has been before
mentioned that Bruce Kirkpatrick, however
foolish, would no more have coquetted and
played herself during the public worship of
God than she would have coquetted and
played herself on her deathbed, knowing
it to be her death-bed. She was in earnest
in her own way, and a model of seriousness
and sobriety sometimes. She was not
only on her best behaviour in church on
Sundays, she liked to listen to Wat Baillie's
sermons, and desired to be the better for them,
though she never dilated on them in a style of
general inflated worthless eulogium such as
Mary and Lily, with the most of the church-going
old women in the parish, indulged in.

But Bruce retained a little of the soreness
on the score of spiritual and mental inferiority
with which the Eev. Wat had contrived unwittingly
to inspire her. She knew she was

idle, discontented, and often ill-tempered,
while uncouth, plodding Eachie Baillie was
industrious, satisfied, and serene. Bruce was
keenly conscious that she was far behind the
minister and his sister in intellectual acquirements.
The youngest Miss Kirkpatrick was
as badly educated as young ladies mostly are.
She did not so much as know the names of
some of those ancient and modern philosophers
' wise, auld bills like Plato and Socrates,
Aristotle and Epicurus,' or ' german, long-headed,
teach chaps like Kant and Hegel,' as Eachie had
appreciatively defined them, when the wind of
some engrossing discussion with her brother
had blown them into Bruce Kirkpatrick's ears,
and these had been tickled by faint echoes of
systems profound, speculative, practical, and
mystical, with which she could no more cope
than she could expound the Differential Calculus.
History remained the shreds and patches
of dry and barren lessons to Bruce, while to

Wat and Eachie it was the mighty-sounding
yet beautifully minute and perfect course of
God's providence among the nations, which
now roared and spouted like great sea billows,
now dropped softly and noiselessly like pearls
of dew. In poetry and imaginative literature
Bruce felt herself nearly as much humbled.
She was quite capable of liking melodious
lyrics and songs and enjoying good novels, but
what was that tiny advance, which merely
carried her a step beyond the region of the
intelligent Scotch cook and dairymaid, when
Wat and Eachie not only did as much and a
great deal more in that department, they actually
relished epic poems, and counted it the
richest treat to read a play of Shakespeare which
they had never seen played ?

If Bruce had but guessed it, there was a
grain of grace and hope in this sense of her
shortcomings; but alas! in addition to the
mortification and depression which they caused

her, she had no reason to cherish the slightest
expectation of ever correcting them in kind ;
she Alas well aware she had not a particle of
intellectual taste beyond the point given. No
Kirkpatrick that she had heard of ever dreamt
of being a scholar. Scholarship was not in her
race. So Bruce, secretly smarting at the lack
of the very inclination for it, took to decrying
it, and making satirical speeches about bookworms
and blue-stockings, which were wasted
on Mary and Lily.

One may easily comprehend the eagerness
and exultation with which Bruce welcomed a
new field of enterprise, and entered on it, conscious
that she could not only hold her own
and win laurels in it, but prove that there was
a line in which no Baillie could approach her.

As a valuable legacy left by the last wars in
Europe and America, and a fresh, if somewhat
fantastic, development of the ancient order of
St. John of Jerusalem, ambulance classes had

VOL. III. F

suddenly sprung up in the large towns, and
were well attended. Doctors and medical
students delivered lectures on the best and
quickest way of dealing with the victims of
accidents in the fields and workshops, and with
the sufferers from domestic disasters, so that
fellow-workers, ordinary bystanders, and the
simple women of a household might give
valuable help before trained professional aid
could be procured. Thus the minimum of
pain and death might be attained.

Wat Baillie's attention was particularly
called to the subject by an unwonted number
of casualties which happened in the harvest
field this year. A reaper bled to death from
the incapacity of anybody round her to form a
tourniquet and stop the flow of life-blood from
the severed artery. A banter, who was ' auld
and wrinkled and grey,' became insensible from
heat and fatigue, and was allowed to pass away
in his swoon because no one near him knew

how to recover a man from a fainting-fit. There
were other unfortunate occurrences  falls, and
an involuntary plunge into the Bog Burn, which
did not prove fatal, but had almost done so,
and would certainly have inflicted far less
injury had the commonest acquaintance with
physical laws and with the most easily obtained
remedies been general

The Eev. Avast entered on the question with
characteristic zeal and enthusiasm. He fee'd
and coaxed the young country doctor, who was
not his Elder  the older doctor was not a big
enough man to be open to such a revolutionary
movement. The junior medical man came
across to Birkenbarns on two evenings in the
week to teach the rudiments of the art of
healing to a heterogeneous class assembled for
the purpose of receiving useful information of
a vital kind in the manse dining-room, made
to serve as an improvised schoolroom.

The minister delivered only one lecture in

F 2

the series. He explained that the days of old
hereditary nostrums, with a few precious elements
of truth in them, and the ready resource
derived from sheer mother wit, were passing
away. We had changed all that. A partial
education had swept aside and was even tending
to paralyse the capabilities of shrewd
ignorance left to its own devices. The time
for greater knowledge  the knowledge of
schools, had come everywhere. Then he told
what an ambulance meant, and what was the
origin of the term Need Cross in connection
with it. He soothed the jealous susceptibilities
of the more thoughtful among the audience
lest the words should refer to anything popish,
while he gave an account of the ancient order
of St. John of Jerusalem, and sought to illustrate
the manner in which the solacing of the
unfortunate and miserable had always blended
with the practice of true religion. After his
part was played, the Eev. Wat left the desk

with the greatest alacrity and installed himself
as the first pupil in the class. He induced
Eachie. in spite of her shyness, to make the
second. There followed a tolerable gathering
of the more intelligent and docile of the
ploughmen and craftsmen accustomed to appear
in the minister's young men's class. These
aspirants to knowledge gaped and grinned
and felt tempted to nudge each other at the
marvels of the map of a skeleton, another map
of veins and arteries, a piece of dried skin,
a bit of crumbling bone. A second Elder, the
riddle-maker, was there, partly with a worthy
desire to support his minister, partly with an
unquenchable craving, which Wat had to resist,
to change the subject of the lecture and
put in a word for the soul when it was the
body which was being discussed.

The greatest difficulty had been found in
bringing out a few homely mothers of families,
either belonging to, or just above, the class that

attended Eachie's mothers' meetings. These
naive women showed that they regarded it asa
very different thing to consent to Kachie
Bailie's, request to work for an hour under her
competent directions, receiving the petticoat
or jacket they had made as a reward for their
exertions, and to be so forward and wanting
in proper feeling  though it was their minister
who bade them  as to go to the manse and sit
alongside of gentlemen and some of the men of
their own households, hearkening to a young
doctor discoursing on matters which approached
perilously near to ' people's insides.'
Men and women, aye, and bairns, died by quiet
or violent deaths, when it was the Lord's will
and their time had come. Sickness was bad
enough to ' thole ' when it was among them,
without their going half-way to meet it. There
was a mixture of fatalistic doctrine and false
humility in these women which made it exasperating
to deal with them. In spite of the constant

danger of their being brought into close contact
with cuts, bruises, and burns, the wives
and mothers would not admit that these
troubles,' in which so much was dependent
on the women's presence of mind and skill,
belonged to their province. They took little
interest in what might have been the familiar
topics. Notwithstanding the laboured simplicity
of the language and examples which
were used, the members of this section of
the audience were constantly' dropping off to
sleep, or finding themselves under the necessity
of immediately returning home at the
crisis of the lesson. Wat had to speak
a word for the reluctant scholars when the
doctor would liavc lost patience altogether.
'They are so unaccustomed to sit with their
hands still, poor bodies I I wonder if it could
be managed for them to bring a bit of knitting
or sewing. No ? You think that would distract
their minds still farther. They are so unused

to the painful operation of thinking, that even
its earliest beginning in careful observation is
a tiresome task for them.'

There were one or two older women who
were more promising scholars, when sufficient
allowance was made for the fact that they were
decidedly opinionative, disposed to be sceptical
and to believe that they knew a great deal
better on almost every count. For they held
the doctor to be a mere babe, in experience as
well as in years, in comparison with any one of
themselves. They had already a large proportion
of the medical practice of their class in
the parish in their hands. Being, as it were,
doctors without diplomas, they brought a considerable
acquaintance with outward symptoms
and an inevitable interest in them to bear on the
lecture. Wat considered it quite a diplomatic
stratagem and triumph to have got the patronage
and countenance of the disengaged of these
elderly ladies for his class.

Bruce Kirkpatrick excited a sensation when,
brimming over with youth, grace, pleasant excitement,
and fearless enterprise, she joined the
class. 'I think lean learn something here.
I have not two left hands, though I am
almost afraid I have two left brains for dry,
heavy books. I am not frightened  none of us
is easily frightened, except Mary  for carriage
accidents. I have persuaded my sisters to let
me come ; I did not mind Claud. I would not
hear of being kept away.'

In truth, Miss Kirkpatrick and Miss Lily
had not been very willing that Bruce should be
taught to ' dress wounds,' as they defined the
object of the class, even at the instigation of the
minister. In spite of their kindness and gentleness,
the sisters were among the old-fashioned
people who still ' go in ' for the ignorance and
helplessness of ladies, with the reservation of a
few strictly stereotyped performances. Young
ladies especially ought to know nothing more

than graces and accomplishments, with a superficially
scanty crop of the last. Beyond this,
Claud might give Bruce a few additional lessons
in driving, at the imminent risk of breaking her
neck ; or if she chose to shoot with his lightest
pistol in the gallery or at the target in the park,
she would always be bearing her brother company.
The sisters, particularly Lily, would not
quite like Bruce to progress till she shot pigeons.;
and rabbits with her own hand, but fishing was
a pretty sport for a lady. Fish were not like
beasts, they gave one the idea of being unfeeling
somehow, so that nobody thought anything
of the cold-blooded pangs of a trout.
Even if the minister were very anxious for the
young sister to take a class  the class of the
tidiest, best-behaved girls, now and then, byway
of example, in the Sabbath school, it could
not be called a desirable proceeding, still it was
permissible, and a point might be stretched. But
what call had Bruce to go and look at wounds,

and dress them ? The bare idea was horrible,
absolutely revolting, though the whole General
Assembly thought fit to endorse it. The ladies
must have held, without any examination, the
parable of ' The Good Samaritan' to be local or
purely figurative in its application. If the Misses
Kirkpatrick did not go so far as to think it
rude ' and ' not good for a girl ' to hear and
speak of her ' inside,' or indeed of any other part
of her body which was not discussed in a dressmaker's
sense, they regarded such discussion as
unfit for Bruce, who was too independent in
her notions already.

But Bruce had her will, as she usually got
it with her sisters, and presented herself radiant
at the class. This was the greater feat on her
part, since the woman who was the here noire of
the elder Misses Kirkpatrick's imaginations, she
who represented to them, as to many men on
whose favour the former belles of Birkencraig
set exaggerated store, the most degraded and

offensive of her sex, was that product of modern
times, styled by these old-fashioned judges, with
unnecessary repetition of the feminine gender,
a lady-doctors.' They could find pity for a
poor fallen creature, who had been deluded and
dragged down into sin and shame, but for a
brazen-faced aspirant to the honours and privileges,
nay, to the very duties of men, the ladies
had no excuse.

The most dissentient voice, after the voices
of the Misses Kirkpatrick, on the ambulance
question was Mrs. Baillie's. She considered
Wat going out of his way and demeaning himself
by taking up a doctor's ' trade,' though she
herself would have prescribed and administered
without hesitation to any unfortunate applicant
some of the deadliest drugs in the pharmacopoeia.
The ' loamy ' (laudanum) and ' calais '
(calomel) quoted to Sir Walter Scott by a self-taught
Scotch medicine man, have not vanished
from the medicine shelves of the lower middle

classes, any more than the sulphur and treacle
of Dotheboys Hall. For Miss Bruce Kirkpatrick
the pretence at learning ' to doctor '
was vain show. For Kachie, whose brains
were muddled with book-learning, whose great
fingers wavered and ' boiled,' and never went
skilfully about anything, save the use of her
needle and shears, for which she had to thank
her mother and a long apprenticeship to a
purpose ' particular dressmaker, Mrs. Baillie
would not like to be the man or woman whom
Eachie would take it upon her to nurse. For
the deluded working women whom Wat had
decoyed into wasting so much of their time on
two evenings of the week at the manse  set
them up ! some of the silly creatures were not
fit for anything, but they knew as much as
their mothers knew before them, as any ' workingmen's
' wife needed to know  if they could
fasten a leech ' and make a bit ' trate-claith '
(a mysterious Scotch preparation of calico,

beeswax and lard, long devoutly believed in
and applied as a sovereign remedy for every
description of hurt). The sole result of Wat's
experiment which Mrs. Bailie looked for, was
the amount of clay that some of the scholars
brought in on their hob-nailed shoes and diligently
scraped off on the dining-room carpet.
Well for the manse if that had been all the
harm done.

Wat had thought to stimulate his fellow-pupils
by offering a few prizes for competition,
mostly simple books on animal physiology.
He hoped these would be won by his most
sensible lads, or, what would be next best, by
one or other of the wise elderly women, as rewards
for attainments in answering questions,
writing down the plainest summary  eccentric
grammar and phonetic spelling not proving a
barrier to success  showing how a poultice
should be made and a bandage put on. But,
somewhat to his disturbance, the lion's share

of the prizes was gained by Bruce Kirkpatrick.
She was so alert and neat-handed, with a
certain native force and fineness of discrimination
and execution, lightness and tenderness of
touch. What wretched bunglers he and Eachie
were beside lier ! How far even the longest-headed,
most highly-experienced of the elderly
ladies who came nearest the successful competitor,
fell behind her. How the doctor
warmed to his apt pupil, and praised her
achievements enthusiastically. As he was not
the Kirkpatricks' doctor, was a married man,
and was, as one of the few liberals in the district,
even snobbish in his democratic scorn of the
aristocracy, represented by the small crop of
lairds' families, he might be reckoned singularly
impartial. What a treat it would be to have
such a nurse in sickness instead of Mrs. Baillie
or even Eachie ! How freely a man might consent
to be ill, to find himself so well and
daintily dealt with in his progress to recovery !

Bruce was as proud as a child of both prizes
and commendations. They showed she had
been right in judging herself not utterly
incapable. She did not care though Claud
derided her gains, and even Mary and Lily,
for a wonder, looked slightingly on them. But
she had quieted her sisters' fears by not proposing
to make any immediate personal use of
her acquirements in dressing wounds. She
had only once, and that was not in her sisters'
presence, startled the doctor and Wat, and set
them thinking, by abruptly asking, when the
three happened to be alone together, whether
concussion of the brain or internal injuries
occurred oftener in carriage accidents, and
what had better be done when people talked a
great deal, started and trembled in their sleep.

One natural consequence of Bruce's attendance
at the ambulance class was that she became
on much more familiar terms with the
manse family, especially with the minister and

Eachie. The brother and sister, of course,
approached a great deal nearer Bruce in position
than her other class-fellows, and a comparative
intimacy had sprung up between the
three  inadvertently enough  but promising to
be permanently established. Bruce said to herself
and her family, she was bound in common
gratitude to remember the benefit she had derived
from the lessons she had shared with the
ploughmen and old wives. She did not cease
to call frequently at the manse, after the class
had come to an end, and to receive an increasing
amount of satisfaction and interest from the
intercourse  a boon in Bruce's drowsy, poverty-stricken,
terror-crossed life. It was at the
height of the pheasant shooting. Claud was
enough engaged not to want much from the
women, even to forget to notice and find
fault with Bruce's doings. As for Miss Kirkpatrick
and Miss Lily, if Claud were pleased,

VOL. III. Q

or not too violently displeased, they let Bruce
do very much as she liked.

The October weather was fine and mellow,
an English version of an Indian summer in the
crisp, frosty, broadly civilised sunshine over the
bare stubble and yellowing turnip-fields. There
was still a wealth of berries beginning to be
tinted everywhere with the richest, subtlest
dyes. The very humble wayside weeds, the
silver-weed and the dock, vied with each other
in amber, and crimson, and bronze. The
manse garden was glorious  from its scarlet-streaked
russet apples, the fast-perishing foliage
of its cherry-trees, and the sunny splendour of
its dahlias and hollyhocks  down to the exquisite
variety of colour in the feathery leaves
in its caiTOt beds. The Craig above stood out
ruddy still, with lingering, unfaded heather
against the blue sky.

Bruce came generally just before the day-fight
departed, as she was returning from some

walk for vhich she had lost her afternoon tea,
and found the minister and Eachie, after their
tea, loitering for the quarter of an hour of
bondman's holiday in the gloaming garden.

The minister was not only bound, lie was
ready, to welcome any of his parishioners. To
add that he was heartily glad to see this one 
who had been capable of behaving like a
naughty, heedless child, whom old nanny at
the Toll, and many more than Nanny, pronounced
to be still destitute of grace, who was
full of faults  is only to allow that he was a
man and a young man.

Eachie was more dubious in the light in
which she viewed Bruce Kirkpatrick's visits.
Eachie rather liked Bruce after the two had
became better acquainted, though the young
lady was always laughing  perhaps to hide a
sore heart, the minister warned his sister  but
on the whole Bruce hurt the ci-devant dressmaker
less than most ladies hurt her. It was

not that Bruce Kirkpatrick was without family
pride, but she thought too little of herself and
her circumstances to show herself affable and
condescending in her frank friendliness towards
Eachie. Still the self-consciousness of the latter
came between them, and bred jealousy of her
new associate. Eachie was especially distrustful
of Bruce's bearing to the minister. Eachie,
with her woman's intuition, was forced to suspect
that Miss Bruce laughed at, as well as with,
Wat, and that offence was simply unpardonable.
Eachie had a great enough heart and soul to
condone most injuries to herself, but she could
not look over a flippant liberty taken with Data
careless slight to him  a scholar, who had
lived among gentlemen as their equal ; a
licensed, ordained minister  the gibing lassie's
own minister. That Wat should be blind or
magnanimous to the deepest shade of the
enormity only rendered it more heinous in
Eachie's faithful eyes.

Late one afternoon the three friends were
in the garden, as near the foot as the strawberry
beds, in which the leaves were curling up,
shrivelling and falling off straw-coloured, brown
and ashen-hued, with a faint delicate odour.

Bruce had already called upon the minister
to climb a tree and pull a special apple she
coveted. Her host and squire for the moment
had obeyed her behest, unsuited as his rather
ponderous figure and clerical costume where for
the undertaking. To her secret amusement
and slight consternation, which Eachie somehow
guessed, he had gone through the unexpected
preparation of deliberately pulling off his coat
and appearing in his shirt sleeves. After all,
the costume, though it was not de rigueiir,
might be regarded as decorous in essentials
as cricket or boating flannels. It might be
worn in exceptional circumstances ; it has
been adopted with advantage under press of
climate, in full dress by a high official  one

of the wisest and best of governors-general.
We have it on the excellent authority of a
bright, clichy eye-witness, that the governor-general
of an important group of South Sea
Islands appeared with the gentlemen of his
suite at dinner in government house in their
shirt sleeves. We are also told that with the
fine touches of crimson silk sashes and embroidered
braces the costume would be highly
becoming. Wat had laid aside his hat also,
and then had proceeded slowly to climb the
tree, with his face lifted up and his eyes fixed
on the goal of his enterprise. His projecting
ears were thus conspicuous, and aroused a
new simile in Bruce's prodigal mind. 'How
like an orang-outang you look up there in the
tree, Mr. Baillie,' she called to him. That
saucily impertinent comparison and a single
easily said word of thanks were all he had for
his trouble, and he seemed to think them
enough too !

The next flight of Nice's nimble fancy
was that she saw a fish's scales glisten under
a stone in the little garden burn. She tempted
Wat to descend the bank to the edge of the
shallow water, the better to reconnoitre, when
his foot slipped and he went splashing into
the stony channel Ike an over-grown schoolboy
wading to catch minnows. Domestic and
harmless as the burn was, it had some tolerably
deep holes, as the minister knew, and if he
stumbled into one of them he might have
cause to regret  though he remained destitute
of his coat  that he was not in other respect's
in the light rig of a Vater or shrimper. He
stooped down to feel the ground, and suddenly
and sharply withdrew his hand.

Eachie gaped like the ploughboys in the
class, and Bruce's bright colour find in an
instant.

'Is it an adder?' she cried, with bated
breath. 'Oh, don't say it is an adder. Dp

they come here ? Do they take to the water ?
Oh, I am so sorry I did not ask the doctor
what to put to an adder's bite. It was very
silly of me ; but I was afraid you would all
laugh at me.'

I should just say so. Why, Miss Bruce,
you are a complete victim to adder-phobia.
Somebody will play a trick on you if you do
not take care, since it is so well known you
are beyond the pale of reason where " hardly
worms " are concerned. Adders, indeed ! I
should have been better off in a nest of adders.
I say, Eachie, somebody before our day
must have been in the habit of flinging broken
glass amongst the stones of the burn.
Look here, you two burgesses,' and he held
out a broad wrist, across which there was
a long cut, from which blood was flowing
freely.

Alas! for Eachie's presence of mind, self-control,
and the power of behaving with the

greatest judiciousness which her recent studies
should have taught her, the first time these
invaluable qualifications were called into action.
She grew very faint and sick when she saw a
real wound  Wat's blood flowing in this alarming
fashion  as if she had never heard of a
tourniquet or handled a bandage. She might
have fallen into the burn next if she had not
instinctively obeyed Bruce's imperative indignant
order : ' Sit down, Miss Baillie ; sit down
this moment. Hold down you head as the
doctor told you to do. Don't stir till you
feel yourself getting red in the face, or I shall
have you fainting on my hands, when you
know I ought to be binding up the minister's
wrist.'

For the moment Bruce was as grave as a
judge, while it was Wat's turn to laugh and
rally her a little on the excellent opportunity
for exercising her skill. He was tempted to
think she had planned the whole affair  bit

of glass included  and sent him down to the
burn as the destined patient.

Bruce bravely put her fingers on what
might be a severed artery and held the wound
closed, while she bade him give her his handkerchief.
The handkerchief was not to be had
on the instant ; it was in the pocket of his
coat lying beneath the apple-tree, while her
handkerchief was too small and slight in texture.
She marched him away, a willing captive,
with her dabbled hand pressing his wrist,
as if to count the pulse-beats that sent the
blood welling to her finger-tips, leaving Eachie
sitting holding down her head obediently
among the strawberry beds.

It was only after Bruce had really, with
considerable spirit and dexterity, dressed a
wound, bound it up, with every chance of
staunching the blood and preventing any
farther harm, and removed all traces of the
accident, that the demon of mischief returned

and took possession of her. She began in her
innocent girlish folly to torment her Samson.
She told him to hold his hand this way and
that way. She threatened him with the most
terrible consequences if he did not submit to
her authority. She dared him to depart from
a regimen on which she would at once put
him. He was not to swallow a mouthful
of supper beyond a glass of claret and a biscuit.
He was to go to bed at ten o'clock
sharp. He was to sleep for a round of the
clock. He was to be very careful what he
ate for breakfast, and then  \vell, she would
tell him what then when she called the first
thing in her round of visits next morning.

He laughed a laugh of merry scorn ;
He turned and kissed her where she stood.'

Alas ! still more for Wat than for Eachie, but
he was a man before he was a minister. He
had been a homely young countryman who
had seen wild girls punished in the fashion the

most unsophisticated, which came most readily
to hand, long before he was a conventional gentleman.
No man breathing was more incapable
of a real insult or even a small im-kindness
to a woman than Wat Bailie, but it
might well be that on provocation he forgot
his elaborate politeness, and returned to the
rude simplicity of his youth. Perhaps  for the
fate of two lives seems sometimes to hang on
a straw  the want of his coat without the
excuse of the tropical climate, or the compensating
picturesqueness of the crimson sash,
recalled the undress of a carter and old
associations too powerfully. Perhaps Bruce's
serge gown, with the light shawl crossed in
front and knotted behind, as a child, or a
graceful young girl would wear it, and the
somewhat weather-beaten Rubens hat, were
not enough to turn the scales. An excellent
woman who dressed superbly, and delivered
religious addresses at meetings of working men,

gave as a reason for the costly and tasteful
dress at which some stupid censor was carping
enough to cavil, that she wore it in order to
please her masons, and make her bakers and
butchers respect her. Bruce might have
pleased Wat Baillie without securing his respect.
For the last achievement the flashing
diamonds, cobweb lace, and long trailing pale
blue and pink silk gowns, worn on a summer
afternoon, in a country garden, by a modern
American young lady, might have been absolutely
necessary, though most reflective
people would have argued the very reverse.

If it was the lack of his coat that was in
fault, the effect was similar to the fatal spell of
them boots ' which walked of their own accord
into all the alehouses, carrying with them all
the poor pauper women who wore the possessed
articles of dress in their erratic yet methodical
course.

How dare you, Mr. Baillie ! ' cried Bruce,

with lier face all on fire, retreating several
paces. Then she had an inkling of the swift
retribution which had come upon him in his
immediate discomfiture and distress. The extreme
ludicrousness of the situation got the
better of her, as on a former occasion, and she
began to laugh. ' I will tell your Elders. I
will bring it before the Presbytery. You'll be
suspended. You'll lose your church.'

When it came to that there was more
genuine refinement in' Wat Baillie than in
Bruce Kirkpatrick. Here was he scarlet with
confusion and vexation, and fit to slay himself
with self-reproach for the rash impulse of a
moment which had caused him to forget his:
cloth, and, whatwas worse, her trust in him and
the cordiality and kindness which had placed'
her in his power. He had wounded her pride
and delicate high spirit in all her antecedents ; .
he had affronted her in her young ladyhood.,
A girl like Eachie would have been justly

angry with a young man who had taken a
mean advantage of a girl's fmi and nonsense,
and would have shaken him off roughly, perhaps;
but she need not have minded so much.
This was altogether different. Miss Bruce Kirkpatrick
had been the little lady of his hobbled
and he was her minister. He could
have gone down on his knees to beg her
pardon  an abasement which would only have
afforded her further diversion ; for she was able
to laugh in his face, to laugh the matter off  even
to make stock of it for further teasing, supposing
they should still continue to be on
intimate terms.

Truly this capacity on Bruce's part administered
something like an additional shock
to the poor minister in the middle of his contrition.
Such a freely snatched kiss would
have appeared a commoner, more natural
occurrence to his sister, yet Eachie might have
thought shame ' to speak of it afterwards.

There was a strain of levity and coarseness
in the Kirkpatrick women, possibly contracted
unawares from their association with the
ignoble men of the race. Such a strain may be
present in many a fine lady whose manners are
unexceptionable, and absent in many a peasant
woman whose manners are below par. It had
been evident in both Mary and Lily Kirkpatrick
in their day. Once, long ago, Mary
had chanced to enter on a flirtation with one
of her many admirers in so unsuitable a place
for such a private gratification as the most
frequented shop in Sauchope. The lady had
got so much into the spirit of the play, and had
actually enjoyed the publicity of the performance
to such a degree, that she carried it on
for three mortal hours, until nine-tenths of the
better class gossips in the town entered the
shop on one pretence and another, to witness
and comment on the scandal. At last the
autocratic laird discovered what his daughter

was about, made his appearance on the scene,
too much incensed to hide his wrath, ordered
her away as if they were people of quite low
extraction, and, it was said, prohibited Miss
Kirkpatrick from putting a foot in the streets
of Sauchope for the next six months.

It was on the cards that Bruce might not
be above deriving some poor pleasure from the
minister's getting into a little trouble on her
account. But then the trouble must not be
great ; and even in that light it was because
Bruce was an ignorant as well as an ill-brought
girl, ignorant of much trouble and misery,
that she could contemplate even a little with
equanimity, nay, with selfish gratification, as a
tribute to her power.

Bruce composed herself presently, and went
away as if nothing had happened.

It was the minister who was thoroughly
discomfited and unhappy. But even he failed
to distinguish a certain ominously appropriate

VOL. III. H

merriment in the kitchen where the servant
had a visitor, which called forth more than one
angry remark from Mrs. Baillie, and at last
brought down a severe rebuke on the culprit
when she was at a signal disadvantage, since she
had been summoned to prayers, and was therefore
before the assembled family as before a
public tribunal.

'What's a' that reuchlin' about, Sairey?
Unco-like on-goings in a manse kitchen. I will
not have them. I will not allow you to have
company if this is to be the upshot.'

Even if Wat had not been conscience-stricken,
he must have hastened to give out the
psalm in order to release the prisoner caught ina
trap. He did not understand, any more than
the others, the exact meaning of the pursing up
of Sairey's mouth and the carriage of her head
as she sat down near the door, without a spoken
word of self-defence, and proceeded to seek
out the verse and sing in a shrill treble. The

silent protest was as follows : ' Carry on,
mistress. What's to hinder you ? But you'll
maybe hear mair o' the on-goings this e'enin',
Mistress Beelyie  a handle mair than you'll
like, before a's done ; though I cinna want to
yacht the minister, pair frail man. Ye had
better look to the ha' company as well as to
the pair folk in the kitchen, though I trow
you're mair accent wi' the last. Ye'll better
keep a tight hand on your a in bairns and the
very minister himsel'. I'm muckle obliged to
you, I'm sure, Mrs. Beelyie mem, but let charity
begin at hame.'

H 3

CHAPTEE X.
hamesuckek'

So, Claud, my fine fellow, you are likely to
have a parson for a brother-in-law. He will
dress " you, as the natives say. A parson in
one's family circle is no joke. I know something
of it, though I make myself rather scarce
at the Marquis's hearth since Lady Elizabeth
married the Archdeacon ' (Lord Sandy always
gave the members of his family their full titles
when he spoke of them to his associates). ' But
to have a regular John Knox, and a clodhopper
to boot  if you will forgive me for saying
so just this once, Kirkpatrick  all to yourself,
is an awful dispensation. By Jove, he will

pitch into you, hot and strong. I should not
Hke to be you, my boy. You will become a
pattern of all the virtues when the minister
takes you in hand.'

The speaker was Lord Sandy, seeking, for
lack of better amusement, to tease Claud Kirkpatrick,
as this promising scion of the aristocracy
would tease his bull-dog, to the verge
of madness.

The place was a private room in the Royal
Albert Hotel, Sauchope, where the young
men had been playing cards, and having a
pipe and something to drink on a stormy
October afternoon. Claud Kirkpatrick was
sitting flushed and in a heady state like the
liquor, hovering between overpowering boisterousness,
dire quarrelsomeness, and flat
stupor.

The only other person present was one of
the horse-dealers, whose company was so much
affected by the young laird. He was a low

type of man, with a bull-neck and small forehead,
a red nose, the high colour of which
was partly due to exposure to the weather,
but was indebted also to the fact that its
possessor stopped his trap at every ale-house
of every road he drove on. As a suitable
adjunct to the nose there were pahs of ferrety
eyes and thick turned-over lips. The man was
a good deal of a brute by nature and more
gratified by training and habit ; still he was
not of the decidedly blackguard order of Lord
Sandy, with his hook nose, hollow, 
eyes, lantern jaws, and long chin.

Claud had been soaking his wits, far from
bright at the best, and he did not at first take
up the allusion.

I don't know what you're driving at, you
sarcastic beggar,' he said, with the amiable
sulkiness Which was chronic with him.

What, are you the last to be told ? Come,
this is too bad, and you the head of the house,

when the whole parish is ringing with the
news. Perhaps your friends think you'll know
soon enough, as people do when a bank fails,
or your nearest relative proposes to remove
you to a lunatic asylum. It is not a bad
move on the old girls' part from their point
of view, and bonnie Bruce, though she is a
spitfire, is sacrificing herself in the most approved
sisterly fashion.'

Claud sat dumb, positively clinking with
bewilderment and rage.

By George ! it's another grand lift for
the minister,' said the horse-dealer hastily.
He desired to calm down a gathering tempest
by the first word of flattery he could find for
his patron. ' I mind well before Tammas Belie
was grieve at Eintoul, when he wrocht a pair
of horses on the farm. It is a fine thing to
have brains and study divinity, and get first
the kirk and then the teddy-wife with her
influential kindred to hold up his dignity.'

Claud had recovered his speech by this
time ; but he used such ugly words, that he
would have been as well, and better, without
the gift for the present. The substance of
his vehement protest was still, What did they
mean ? Whom where they calling ' old girls,'
bonnie Bruce,' and 'spitfires'? He was
determined to know, though the knowledge
might not be to the benefit of some of the
speakers, who were taking beastly liberties. It
was a big lie  the most insolent and groundless
of lies, which he would cast in the teeth of
any man who should dare to repeat it.

In his downward course Lord Sandy had
been forced to rub shoulders with a good many
indignities, and to put up with them superciliously
and doggedly. But he had not yet
accepted the lie direct from Claud Kirkpatrick,
whose limited sense forsook him entirely when
he had taken an enemy into his mouth to steal
away his brains, and was besides distraught

with passion. He then showed a peculiar
development, which was a mixture of the
savage and the idiot.

Lord Sandy did not catch up his riding-whip,
with which he was usually armed, and lay
it across Claud's slouched shoulders on the spot.
Neither did the insulted man throw his glass
in his neighbour's face, and grind his teeth 
perhaps because he had few left to grind,
though he bared those few fangs in a vicious
grin, while his swarthy complexion darkened
to a purplish hue. ' Look here, Kirkpatrick,'
he recommended the younger man with exasperating
composure, ' if you will be a fool,
make a row, and stand the consequences, take
care you have it out in the right quarter.
Don't go and quarrel with your friends, man.
Ask the precious peeping beadle of your blessed
kirk and the curious jade of a manse servant
what delicious morsel of tittle-tattle they have
been spreading about for the last fortnight,

till the whole neighbourhood is on the qui vive,
laughing in its sleeve, ready to explode in a
horse-laugh at any moment. I can tell you
something else than an insult and an assault is
due to a good-natured sinner, avIk; is ready to
look over your cursed temper and put you on
your guard. Miss Bruce would not have a
word to say to a ne'er do-well like me, hang
it ! but the demure little devil  pardon me
once more, for a single moment, my boy 
you know women will be women all alike,
though they hail from the same quarter as
ourselves  Miss Bruce could lay aside her
decorum to the extent of playing tricks on
the great hulking minister-fellow, locking him
up in his chmxh, when these two must have
been carrying on a Scotch wooing in the
churchyard of all places. Then there was the
farce of the sawbones class ; till at last the
woman  the maid-servant, watched her master
privileged to take a kiss from the young lady

ill the open garden, in enough daylight to be
spied upon from the kitchen or the dairy-window.
I appeal to you, is it not time that
the marriage should be announced, or at least
that you should be made aware of the honour
awaiting you in the intended family arrangement
? '

Claud was held at bay, but he remained
furiously incredulous. One of his idiosyncrasies
was an almost insane idea of the social
importance of the family which he was dragging
down by his mental and moral inferiority
and constant misconduct. He had been provoked
with Bruce for her alliance with the
manse from the date of the ambulance class,
but he had never degraded her, in his imagination,
by the most distant suspicion of philandering
with Muckle Wat. Claud Kirkpatrick
in his clownishness and scantiness would as
soon have supposed that his young sister could
consent to flirt with Nicol the butler, if he had

been a young man, as with any minister,
doctor, writer (lawyer), or banker between
Birkencraig and Edinburgh. The last were
very different persons, but Claud chose to lump
them together. Of course, a marriage with
the parish minister, Tammas Bailie of Eintoul's
son, was not to be thought of for an instant for
one of the Misses Kirkpatrick.

It was an idle, base fabrication, Claud said,
in a good deal stronger language than is preserved
here. But he cried out with the next
breath that he would put a stop to the disgrace ;
he would give the minister something to remember
for his abominable presumption ; he
would let his sister know that she must take
care what she was about so long as she bore
his name and dwelt under his roof. But it
must be all the old women's fault. Trust old
women for motioning to ministers, leading the
humbugs and donkeys to make fools of themselves
and show what they were really sweet

upon. Old women of all classes and the clergy
were like cooks and policemen. Bruce was
too young for that sort of thing. And she
knew what she was about. She knew her price,
as his friend Lord Alexander had found to his
cost. She could look after herself in a general
way. She was game enough.

Lord Sandy shook his wicked head, snarled
a secret snarl, and stirred again the furious
rage and disgust which had been beginning to
subside.

Claud cried he would go straight to the
manse and call the minister to account.

Better leave him to the ladies  that is,
after you have set them right. They will
dismiss him properly, without any risk run.
Remember what an elephant this lap-dog is;'
words which only added fuel to the fire, for
Claud was no physical coward ; on the contrary,
he was fool-hardy in such an encounter as that
he proposed.

'At least I would bide a wee, and let
sleeping dogs lie, Mr. Kirkpatrick,' recommended
the horse-dealer, who, for his part,
was anxious to promote peace, while the malicious
scoundrel Lord Sandy was egging on the
fray. ' There can be no harm in biding a bit.
Matters may be susceptible of explanation.'

There can be no explanation,' said Claud
loftily, in the height of his haughtiness and
towering wrath.

He ordered out his dog-cart, and drove 
not straight in one sense, but in the style of
driving of Jehu, the son of Nisi  without
turning aside, to the manse of Birkenbarns,
leaving Lord Sandy to sneer, and the horse-dealer
to suffer a salutary dread that, on the
one hand a profitable customer's neck might be
broken before its time ; on the other, that the
whole three men might be taken up as accessories
in a case of aggravated battery and
assault.

Arrived without an overthrow, by one of
those miracles which seem to wait on the
helpless, at the manse gate, into which Claud
dashed like a whirlwind, the first person he
met was Mrs. Baillie. She told him frankly
a merciful man was merciful to his beast,
but he had certainly overdriven his nag.
No, the minister was not ' in ; ' and she did
not think he would be back till the darkening.


I'll wait for him,' said Claud, leaping down
from his seat, leaving his panting horse to its
fate as if he had a hundred as good in his
stables, brushing past Mrs. Baillie unceremoniously,
and when Sairey appeared bidding her
show him to the study.

There, amidst the records of the gathered
wisdom of ages, by the minister's desk, on
which lay his half-written sermon, in the place
where Wat and Eachie had often held high
and sweet communion, the well-born clown,

fool, and madman sank into the first chair.
He breathed hard with exhaustion, while he
brooded over the wrong done to his family-pride
and to the dignity of Bruce's gently born
maidenhood, which, according to his light, the
lad had always been scrupulous in guarding.
As he brooded, he hugged his primitive
project of punishment, fingering his riding-whip,
and lying, as it were, in wait for his
prey.

Mrs. Baillie and her maid, the only persons
who had seen Claud's entrance, could not guess
his errand ; though Sairey asserted afterwards
that her heart  probably influenced by a recollection
too a 'propos of her late loud-tongued
gossip  had come into her mouth at the young
laird's aspect. ' He gloomed like a putting'
stot  nae less, though he's sae little bucket,
beside the minister. A silly Tarn Thoomb o'
an illdeedy laddie.'

Mrs. Baillie was one of the most dauntless

of women. She would hardly have hesitated,
in the national phrase, to call the king her
brother, or, more correctly, the queen her
sister ; but when she had followed the self-invited
guest, after a short interval, into the
study, and asked him, with a kind enough
intention, if he would not come into the diningroom
and take a cup of tea, she was sufficiently
influenced by his short answer, and a traditional
respect for the reigning laird of Birkencraig 
far more powerful than any entertained for a
hypothetical king or queen, to leave him in
peace while he was meditating war.

Thus it happened that Claud sat on for
more than an hour  a period of time which
told against his case in the end ; not wide
awake all the time, but not sleeping sufficiently
to restore in any degree the balance of his
mind ; dozing and starting, and getting if
possible always more dazed and desperately
inclined to fight with the first person he came

VOL. III. I

across, above all to fjiU upon the big dolt and
conceited dog of a minister, pommel him,
knock him down, expose him to open contempt
and derision, as a fit retaliation upon
his most impudent abuse of Bruce's silly
thoughtlessness.

The gloaming was well advanced when
Wat Baillie came into his manse by the side
door, which in that quiet country-place was
left conveniently and confidingly unbarred till
supper-time. He had not been seen by any
member of the family, and went first to his
study without having been told of the visitor
awaiting him there.

On the opening of the study door, Claud
Kirkpatrick started up for the fifth or sixth
time from momentary unconsciousness, withall
his perceptions clouded and confused. He
had no clear sense of Adhere he was or what
he was going to do. He felt only a burning
irritability at being disturbed, added to the

dim but dogged determination to get his revenge
for the injury done to him and her, and
for the miserable hour  or was it half-a-dozen
hours?  he had been forced to spend in that
hateful humbug of a minister's den.

Claud's chair happened to be in the shadow
of the door, and Wat had not so much as set
eyes on the intruder, when with the unnatural
force lent by passion allied to madness the lad
leapt up, dashed his arm in the face approaching
him, and with the silver-mounted end of
his whip struck the minister a crashing blow
on the right temple and felled him insensible
on the floor of Ms study. ' Take that for
your low insolence to Miss Bruce Kirkpatrick ! '
the assailant cried to ears which did not
hear. Then Claud flung his whip after the
blow it had inflicted, stumbled over the prostrate
figure, and walked out of the open door,
before the members of the household, running
together at the strange sound of the heavy

I 2

fall, had recovered from their consternation at
the state in which they found the minister.

Claud had regained his senses enough to
trace his trap to the cart shed, reclaim it from
Lowrie Wilson, the minister's man, and help to
re-yoke his horse. The assailant had driven
away before one of the frightened, distressed
family in the manse had so much as associated
him with the calamity.

Eachie was less overcome at a really formidable
crisis than she had been by the sight
of the cut across her brother's wrist  now
nearly whole  that evening in the garden.

Mrs. Baillie, after an involuntary sharp cry,
My bairn ! my bairn ! '  all the more piteous
because it was wrung from such a woman 
showed herself strong to act out her notions of
what ought to be done for her son in his need.

Tammas was still sufficiently able-bodied,
with the help of the three women, to lift Wanton
to the sofa.

He must have over-walked himself,' said
Eachie, with her voice sunk to a low, agonised
whisper, ' rented, and struck his head in falling.
But to think of our Wat fenton' ! Oh ! I wish
he would speak. His been are not clean closed,
but I cinna believe he sees us, though he's
breathing loud enough, and I can feel both
his heart and his pulse.'

It would have saved a wonderful amount
of tribulation if Wat had been able to speak
as Eachie wished or even to look intelligently
around him, though it was not likely he would
have substituted any other explanation than
that his people had arrived at as to the nature
of his accident. The truth was between the
blow and the fall Wat Bailie had suffered
concussion of the brain, and, most disastrously
for all concerned, did not know what was
passing around him, and could not take any
active steps in his own affairs for the next
twenty-four hours.

He must have let his stomach gang terrible
out o' order,' remarked Mrs. Baillie, ina
louder, almost an angry key, bethinking
herself of the amount of calomel she had in the
house. ' I wonder if he can Cavalry, though he
doesna seem to see or hear ? He must be 2[ot
to take physic instantly.'

Try him wi' a soup o' brandy,' suggested
Tammas, ' the time me or Lowrie's saddling'
ane o' the plough horses and riding' for the
doctor.'

In order to bring about this conclusion a
light was fetched, and then somebody's eyes
first fell on Claud Kirkpatrick's whip lying
where it had been launched, close by the door.

What's that ? '

Whaup cam' that frae ? '

Wat has nae whip ? ' was repeated in bewilderment,
and then a light flashed across
Mrs. Baillie's mind and filled her with horror
and rage. ' Gude forgive him, it has been

that young villain Birkencraig that I speak' to
at the door, and syne in this very room. Atlas
been struck and felled in his ain loose and
his within cry. They have been arguing
or fichte, gin ony decent lad  let-abbe a
minister  would fecit wi' a young reprobate
and diel's buckle like thon. But we heard no
sound, .till Wat, being a man o' peace, without
even a cane in his hand, had the worst o't 
a black shame ! Wa', Tammas Belie, wa',
and lodge information wi' the police or the
fiscal in Sauchope, as well as summon the
doctor, or we'll have our pair braw laddie the
minister o' the parish slain before our very
been, and no satisfaction got, because the slayer
is a prodigal laird come o' a race o' drunkards,
scoffers, and scoundrels.'

'Oh! whisht ! whisht! mither,' besought
Eachie, ' you cinna ken how it cam' about.
Wat thinks fair of the Kirkpatricks  the
eddies o' them  onv late. What woidd gar

the laird commit sic a trespass  a terrible
crime P There, there, the piiir dear eyelids have
flickered

But the flickering was only momentary.
Wat did not open his half-closed eyelids more
widely or rouse himself to take part in the
discussion which concerned him so nearly. All
that Eachie gained by her interposition was a
bitter reproach from her mother in which her
father joined, of heartlessness and unnaturalness
in having a word to utter in defence of
the murderer of that brother whose greatest
friend she had professed to be. The couple
were rudely awakened from their cool conceit
by the injury which had been done to the
son. Their parental still more than their class
blood was up. What did it matter, although
they had not seemed to be too proud of Wat and
had treated his attainments lightly, when both
he and they were at the parents' commands
The father and mother would prove their

rights and their wrongs the moment they saw
a finger had been raised against the pillar of
the house, the pillar of the whole parish.

Before Wat knew what he was about or
could prevent the step, the doctor had pronounced
him seriously though not necessarily
fatally hurt, by a stunning blow on the temple,
which was much more likely to have come
from the butt-end of a riding whip wielded by
cruelly reckless hands, than to have been caused
by contact in falling with the corner of a door.
In addition a very grave charge had been
brought, and to a considerable extent substantiated,
against Claud Kirkpatrick of Birken-
craig. For the offence of which he was accused
was a peculiarly detestable one in the eyes of
early Scotch lawyers. It was known by the
ancient name ' hamesucken,' which implies
that the offender has rendered the deed of
violence against a peaceful community doubly
heinous, by deliberately seeking his victim in

his home, and there in the house which ought
to have been the unfortunate man's castle,
dealing him wicked injury. If a man's own
house is not to be reckoned safe and sacred, the
old judges argued solemnly, what city of refuge
can he fall back upon, since church sanctuary
has been out of count, as a superstitious weakness,
from the days of the Reformation ? Therefore
the Daniels exacted the utmost penalty of
the law, short of a forfeited life, from the
dishonourable regardless wretch, capable of the
violation of all right feeling in the unnatural
crime of ' hamesucken.' Even though the
victim should recover, the sentence on the
criminal might be transportation beyond the
seas for life.

The undesirable comedy between the minister
and Bruce Kirkpatrick, which had been
awakening, unsuspected by the people most
concerned as usual, a chorus of mingled ridicule
and reprobation in the parish, was suddenly

swallowed up in the awful cleliglit of an apprehended
tragedy. It did not detract greatly
from the breathless satisfaction of a catastrophe,
that public opinion in an agricultural parish in
the main rampantly conservative, began immediately
in the teeth of justice  prosaic or poetic,
to set dead against the minister. Had Claud
Kirkpatrick's lawless attack been more successful
and either killed outright, or left the minister
for many weeks in sore sickness and suffering
and deadly peril, the rascally barbarity of the
deed would have come conspicuously to the
front, and taken men's minds by storm. Wat's
many virtues would have been remembered,
exalted to the skies, he Avould have been
canonised without waiting a hundred years, and
Claud Kirkpatrick would have been regarded
forthwith with horror and loathing, as one who
had committed sacrilege in addition to murder.
But the whole business was a miserable bungle
and compromise as well as a glaring anachronism.

Wat Baillie was not killed or
nearly killed ; he was hardly even in much
danger after the first twenty-four hours. No
trembling suspense had to be met, no continuous
stream of pity was called forth on his
account, and this made all the difference in the
world in his cause.

Claud Kirkpatrick was a mauvais sujet but
he was one of the old Kirkpatricks of Birken-
craig who, with their good and evil, had in
their turn belonged to the parish, while the
parish had partly belonged to them for many
a generation. He was the head of his house,
the credit of which he had been seeking, however
unwisely, to preserve. Certainly the most
honourable point about him, in his far from
honourable career, was his zeal for the credit
of his young sister. Plenty of worthy people
could sympathise with him on that head, while
nobody could defend levity in a minister of the
kirk. Bruce Kirkpatrick was but a girl, without

father or mother to look after her and keep
her under proper controL Mr. Baillie, who washer
senior as well as her minister, ought to
have been the first man to remember and
respect her disadvantages, the last to employ
them to her prejudice. So argued the stern
righteousness, esprit de-corps, and not unmanly
chivalry of the most of the fathers of young
daughters, of whatever degree, in the parish.

Weel-a-wat, a preacher o' th' word, and a
dispenser o' ordinances, might have had a handle
mair in his head than toying' and fulin' wi' a
young vain quean boon him in station. What
cam o' his meditations and prayers and making'
o' powerful' sermons, his catechising' o' the
young, his minding' o' pair folks' souls that are
more precious in the been o' the Almighty than
the ease and pleasure o' the rich and great
that they set sic store on ? We had ay a
rather o' Wat Beelyie sin' he tick up wi' the
doctoring' o' the vile body. He was over

broken from the first, on carnal learning' and
the interests o' this world ; see to him fleeing'
like a gled at a godless newspaper as gin it had
been a godly word o' a godly man of auld.
They had been felled aforehand what would bethe
end o' sic a divided heart and how pride
would get a fa'. Xo' that the minister was
prides' in the ordinary' sense, only a thocht
puffed up wi' his college and his books and sic
weapons o' the flesh.' Thus spoke the old
wives  those oracles of orthodoxy and devotion
in Scotland, since the days of Jenny Gentes
downwards.

There existed another much less powerful
but still distinct and influential element in the
tide which was turning against Wat Baillie's
popularity. He had accepted the presentation to
Birkenbarns, and come to it a young single
man, who, in spite of such domestic dragons
as his mother and Eachie, was a likely match
for a large proportion of the disengaged

young women in the parish. The facts of his
humble birth and rearing among them, and
his more familiar acquaintance, in consequence,
with all ranks, had made the prize more open
to a variety of claimants. Yet it is a rare
event for a minister  of all the magnates
risen from the people  to pay such heed to the
Apostle James's injunction as to have no respect
of persons, and to return to the class from which
he sprang in order to draw from it a helpmeet
in his manse, unless, indeed, he has committed
himself by an early engagement. Either
the charm of social refinement acts with peculiar
power on him, or a sense of inexpediency
gets the better of him, and he lets himself be
persuaded that his usefulness will be seriously
impaired if he go against the partialities and
prejudices of the upper ten of his parishioners
by bringing a peasant Dorothea to labour with
him in his spiritual vineyard. But as we profess
to believe that all men are equal in the

sight of God, and that His religion more than
any other force levels every difference of rank
and training, it seems a pity that a few brave,
honest men shoidd not try the experiment, and
ascertain whether the scandal of low-born,
rustic, poor wives, to whom the husbands
have stooped, would be really worse than the
reproach of high-born, polished, rich wives,
to whom the evangelists have aspired, making
worldly stock and gain as it seems of their
calling and graces and of women's well-known
appreciation of such conditions and qualities.
The result probably would be that some members
of the higher classes would walk no more
with their teachers, and some members of all
ranks, estranged now, would turn and hear
such disinterested authorities gladly. Where
there are many candidates there must be many
disappointed, and the tacit class rivalry here,
together with the circumstance that Bruce
Kirkpatrick had not been a recognised or fit

candidate, and was not a general favourite,
lent a bitterness to disappointment in the present
instance. It was wrong-headed as well as mean
in the minister to go hankering after Miss Bruce
Kirkpatrick, a young lady who had not even
taken a class in his Sabbath School, though
she had been forward enough in displaying
her ability in the new unwomanly capacity of
serving as a doctor when occasion required.
The verdict pronounced by the softest-hearted
and humblest aspirant to the love of a large,
reverent soul, and the privilege of being mistress
of the manse of Birkenbarns, was that
the minister was well served and richly deserved
all that Claud Kirkpatrick had given
him. ' No doubt, poor simple, learned fellow,
he had been in the beginning misled and put
upon '  with a little relenting to him, quickly
atoned for by increased severity to her. * Miss
Bruce Kirkpatrick might be pleased with the
mischief she had done. She was a high-spirited

VOL. III. K

young lady, but this might satisfy even her
ambition, that she had brought one man to the
brink of the grave, and she had brought
another  her own only brother  within the
clutches of the law She might, if she durst,
go over to BirkenbarnsJ help to nurse her
clerical admirer back to health, and demean
herself to marry him, for nobody else would
care to have a gift of him now.'

CHAPTEE XI.

THE MINISTER ' WAITED Upon.'

Nevertheless there did not fail faithful followers
who clave to Muckle Wat, through
good report and evil report, though it must"
be confessed they were the select few. The
affair was sufficiently bad, but it might have
been still Averse, even without a charge of
culpable homicide established against Claud
Kirkpatrick by the death of the minister.

Miss Kirkpatrick and Miss Lily might easily
have been overwhelmed by the dreadful blow
  a double and triple blow to them. For it
involved their family pride along with their
family affection, especially their doting fondness
K 2

for their old nursling, and it cut in a positively
hopeless manner at the loyal allegiance of two
good church-women who had taken the greatest
interest in their kirk and their minister.

But the sisters, who, after all, had not been
reared in the lap of indulgence, but had gone
through a certain amount of hard experience
under the old laird, rose to the occasion, and
behaved with far more common sense than
could reasonably have been expected from
them, thus holding the misfortune in check,
and lightening its disgrace.

Luckily Bruce had happened to be away
from home for a few days, paying a visit
to some cousins, when the outrage was committed.
Her sisters, with the concurrence of
their relations, absolutely interdicted her return,
and decreed that she should remain
where she was, till everything was settled and
the whole unhappy business was blown over.
They were not hard on what they knew of

her folly, which, indeed, did not seem to them
either very usual or unpardonable. They
could not be hard to anybody save ' a lady-doctors.'
But their instinct told them Bruce
was better out of the way of the storm.

In other circumstances Bruce might have
resisted the banishment indignantly; as it
was, she was too confounded, affronted, and
wretched to resist.

It had been found impossible to keep
Claud from being taken before a magistrate;
and while the minister of Birkenbarns was
still lying in his manse stricken and incapable,
from the effects of the treatment he had received,
it was equally impossible for the most
lenient justice to avoid committing the young
man to stand a trial. He ought to have
known better, and he had taken the law into
his own hands on a piece of provocation,
which, however it might strike sensitive, refined
minds, was still a trifle in the eyes of

the law. However, a point could be stretched
in admitting the laird to bail, and plenty of
bail was at his service.

The elder Misses Kirkpatrick would fain
have had Claud back to be cried over, humoured,
and bowed down to more than ever,
but their nearest and wisest brother-in-law
insisted, as the sisters had done in the case
of Bruce, that Claud should be removed from
the scene, and kept as far as possible out of
the way, till he was wanted.

Claud had no objection, for though he Alas
not sorry for his behaviour, which still appeared
to him the most justifiable in the world, he
was a little sick of the row which had been
made and the mess which he had got into,
when all the beggars, whether favourable or
adverse, pulled such long faces, and the old
girls threatened to become waterspouts. As
for Bruce, of course he had acted like any
other gentleman and done what was simply

necessary, she must at all hazards be kept
from running wild, getting herself talked about,
and making a fool of herself, but he would
rather not encounter his younger sister just at
present. It would be awkward to meet other
people who knew both him and that fellow of
a minister, and might be trusted to discuss the
story constantly out of his hearing. Lastly,
his brother-in law lived in a good coursing
county, and Claud desired to see coursing out
of his own beat.

Mary and Lily Kirkpatrick had always deferred
to male authority and opinion and to
the inclinations of their darling. Thus the
neighbourhood had a good riddance of both
Bruce and Claud in the interval between
the offence and the trial. A great deal of
mischievous gossip was summarily stopped in
the absence of the chief performers in the play,
while the excitement was prevented from rising
to anything like its highest pitch.

But though the worst had been avoided,
very much that was bad and hard to bear
remained, and Miss Kirkpatrick and Miss Lily
could not so much as send for their minister
and confer with him, profiting by his ghostly
counsels. So far from that, the ladies could
not even go to their parish church, and
sit in the old family pew on Sundays, seeking
strength and consolation at the proper place
at the proper time, for this most unlooked-for,
unexampled trial which had befallen them.
From the melancholy night when they were
told of poor dear Claud's rashness, the sisters
knew that they could never enter again the
church of their fathers, so long as the parish
minister continued to be Wat Baillie. This in
itself was a serious deprivation and grief to
these simple conservative women. If they
bore a heavy grudge against anybody concerned,
it was against Wat Baillie, in spite
of his punishment. But it was not so much

for this misdemeanour, admitting that it was
very blameworthy in a man of his birth and
position, as for the ill-judged circumstances m
which it had occurred that had led to its
publicity  to its reaching Claud's ears  to all
the trouble which had followed. With certain
lingering recollections of their youth to influence
them, it was on the last ground of
complaint the two ladies dwelt chiefly. . For
Tammas Baillie's son, the parish minister, to
take it upon him to give Miss Bruce Kirkpatrick
a kiss, was bad enough, no doubt ; but
if he was going to forget himself, what, in
the name of decency and order, could tempt
him to be guilty of the trespass in the
manse garden, within sight of the windows ?
Could he not have waited till the two were
in the house, in a room by themselves, or till
he was escorting her home some night in the
gloaming, and then, though it would still have
been a most impertinent liberty in Wat Bailie,

yet nobody save the couple need have been
any wiser? It might have been a lesson to
Bruce never to forget she was a Kirkpatrick,
and however homely and charitable she chose
to be, to keep herself, where familiar associates
were in question, among her equals. If it had
been a gentleman now, who had misbehaved
as the minister had done, he would have
taken care to misbehave in season, and not to
expose a young lady to remark. Wat Baillie
had conducted himself like the ploughmen
from whom he had come.

It would have been vain to argue with the
poor dies that if deliberate precautions had
been employed, they would have inferred that
the offence was coolly premeditated, and so
its turpitude would have been immensely
aggravated.

Wat Baillie did not have it in his power
to use any argument. He could have humbled
himself and written any number of letters of

apology to the Misses Kirkpatrick if such a
proceeding would have done any good, but he
was sensible it would only add to the grievance.
Unlike Claud Kirkpatrick, Wat Baillie was very
sorry for his share in the wrong. What could
he do to make up for it ? he asked himself over
and over again while he was still shaken and
ill, with his head aching and giddy from the
measure of chastisement Claud had inflicted
on him.

Wat was not without natural resentment
and indignation at the unmanly advantage
which had been taken of him, the brutal
attack made without warning on an unprepared,
defenceless man on the threshold of his
study. It was an attack which only the lack
of stalwartness in Claud's arm, under Providence,
or the good angels of both men, had
saved from being murderous. He, the big,
strong man, smarted under the mortification
of having been felled  to the ground by such

a one as Claud kirkpatrick. Still, Wat was
too true and good to yield to his wounded
pride and cherish a vindictive longing for
revenge upon the ill-conditioned lad, who
under a mistaken sense of family responsibility,
had been the minister's assailant.

Each his brains as he might, Wat was
always brought up short by the miserable
conviction that he could do nothing but bear
the penalty of his absurdity and scandalous
thoughtlessness. The matter had passed out of
his hands from the moment the charge had
been brought against Claud while Wat lay insensible.
It was not he but the Crown that
prosecuted. He was simply called upon, nay,
compelled, to give his evidence as to what he
knew of the facts of the case in which he
figured so inappropriately. And even if the
affair could still be hushed up, after what had
come and gone, what would become of Bruce
part in it? Might not what had been the

merest inconsiderateness bred of her innocent
girlishness, and leading to nothing worse thana
piece of rough, unmannerly retaliation, be so
twisted and tortured under the coarse, malignant
handling of slander as to signify something
widely different ? He recoiled] in anguish and
horror from her best inheritance of a spotless
reputation being put in peril by his means.
Even without the risk of this terrible punishment
for a small offence, in which he was the
guiltier person, was not the truth always and
in all circumstances best? Wat had such a
reverence for the truth, that he could not even
comprehend loyalty either to God or woman
without it. He was not tempted to He in order
to shield Bruce Kirkpatrick ; on the contrary, to
brace himself to tell the foolish truth was the
greatest service he could render her. But even
if a lie could have saved her from suffering, it
would have been to him a double falsehood, a
witless blunder. Truth was the one element of

human history which proved sure and lasting.
The very devil was shamed by the truth,
according to the popular adage. Tell the
truth, undo whatever was done amiss, and beat
peace with God, one's self, and the world
for ever after. There was neither confidence,
nor rest, nor stability in any other com-se. The
truth was like the white beams of light in which
every incident could be seen in its genuine
character and just proportions. It might bean
awkward, a painful, in some cases an awful
ordeal to speak the truth, but speaking it was
the one hope and safeguard of individuals and
of the race. Wat had not the least doubt of
the vital importance of the truth on all subjects,
secular and sacred. What perplexed, hurt, and
mortified him was the very different standard
which even respectable people held of the truth :
how in sport or in earnest they could, in spite
of their conventional codes of honour, with the
greatest ease, speak and act a lie equivocal

whenever their affections, interests, or even
their amusements became implicated.

Without even waiting to see the falling off
of his parishioners from him, Wat felt often
very coldhearted under the cloud. He was
driven to speak hard things against himself 
almost to believe that he lead sinned in a
moment of levity against his calling, so as to
render it advisable for him to lay down his
commission, or at least resign the parish of
Birkenbarns, dear to him from the first as the
place of his birth and the scene of his boyhood.
It had been growing dearer and dearer to him
every day as the field of his labours ; but he
was sometimes fain to think he ought to turn
his back upon it in earnest, as Bruce had
threatened in jest she would make him do.
Perhaps it would be better for him to go at
once and offer himself as a foreign missionary.
In distant lands it was to be hoped no hint of
the escapade which had cost him dear would

ever rcacli the ears of his yellow, copper-coloured,
or black flock. And even if it did
so, among the enormities of heathens and of
exiled Christians who have forgotten their
Christianity in all save the name, his momentary
clerical performance would sound venial
indeed.

But Wat was a healthy natured man, gifted
with grace. He could not long exaggerate
extravagantly. An instant's folly, however
disastrous the effects, ought not to be regarded
as a deadly sin. To throw up his license would
be morbid, even egotistical weakness, unworthy
of the Master whom he served, and the calling
to which lie belonged. To abandon his parish,
in place of living down all the mistakes and
errors he was sure to commit, and the many
falls he was certain to suffer in the course of his
career  unless it were destined to be of the
briefest, would be sheer cowardice, however it
might shield itself under the high-sounding

titles of magnanimity and disinterestedness. If
he was not fit to address well informed people,
he was still less fit to instruct untaught heathen.
The more difficult the task, the higher ought
to be the qualification. He who was willing
to become an exile, perhaps a martyr, for
Christianity, should be without the shadow of
reprc.ich or the suspicion of interested motives.
He who joked the missionary ranks in order
to skulk from his creditors, cut the knot of
a dilemma, or escape from a scandal, was
unworthy the name of missionary, and no good
could come ol his Avork. To retreat from the
full penalty, and leave Bruce Kirkpatrick to
bear it alone, would be grossly unfair to her.

Little or nothing has been said as yet of the
state of Wat Baillie's feelings towards Bruce,
which might have contributed to bring about
the present predicament, and would without fail
influence him in his efforts to set it right. The
truth is, in spite of the vast number of novels

VOL. III. L

wliicli would have made such sentiments the
prominent controlling forces of the history,
Wat's feelings with regard to Bruce were by no
means the active factors in the business which
they might have been expected to be. His
feelings were about as vague and indefinable as
hers. There was certainly a mutual attraction
between the two  the attraction of reverses and
the attraction of similitudes also. On his side
there was a tender indulgence  not always in
accordance with reason  for the little Miss
Bruce to whom he had looked up with the
wonder and admiration of a big, uncouth,
reverential boy. This tenderness inflicted on
him the keenest pang for the trouble he had
brought upon her.

On her side, there was a struggling, earnest
respect for the man and the minister, contending
with a habitual slighting estimation of
Muckle Wat Baillie with his obtrusive ears.

The state of his mind was further complicated

by his fervent repentance for having
injured her.

The state of hers implied the still more
dubious condition of an undisciplined yet candid
and generous nature, which while angry and
aggrieved cannot deny its own unwarrantable
sin of provocation, so as to take up an attitude
of implacability.

If there had been an opportunity of meeting
where the couple were concerned, it would
have furnished embarrassment to the verge of
distress to both. He would have been ready to
abase himself, solicitous to express his deep
unfeigned regret, while at the same time his
old unconsciousness and calm politeness would
have given place to an agitation that threatened
to render him dumb, and a timidity which
shrank from annoying her farther.

She would have taken high ground, looking
stones or daggers, all the while keeping up
a pretence of callous imperturbability or even
l2

insulting gaiety, for the benefit of the public
in general.

But if either of these demonstrations meant
love, it was only the shy, dim dawn of love
rudely dispelled and forced into unnatural
development.

Wat Baillie had not possessed the excuse,
such as it was, of ungovernable passion for
the freedom he had indulged in. For that
matter, it might strike most people who are
not either shallow or vulgar, that if a manlike
Wat had been devotedly in love with
Bruce Kirkpatrick, the very last thing he
could have done would have been exactly
what he did do. His offence was a breach of
manners, not an outburst of emotion.

In his own house Wat, from the moment
he became aware of his unhappy plight, found a
divided family. His mother, and his father
led by his mother, when they had discovered
the cause of the laird's attack, and were relieved

from the dread of a fatal end to it,
resented it on their son as if he had been
foolish on purpose to affront them, no less than
to bring a slur on his coat. Mrs. Baillie sniffed,
groaned, and improved the occasion, and
Tammas echoed her groans, till Wat, good son
though he had always been, was well-nigh
goaded into becoming a prodigal so far as
forsaking his father and mother went. Only
Eachie stood by him, modest, sedate Eachie,
who had never altogether Heed Miss Bruce
Kirkpatrick, and had foreboded some catastrophe
from their familiar acquaintance.

Eachie even put force on herself to make
light of the deed. ' To give a wild lassie a
bit kiss to stop her mouth for a minute, what
ferlie was that to make sic an outcry about ?
The gentry were not so strait-laced on their
own account. It would be well for them if no
heavier or more shameful sin could be laid to
their charge. No doubt Wat was a minister,

but he was also a man  a young man who
would grow wiser and never lose his head
or be carried away by fun and nonsense
again. And what was Miss Bruce Kirkpatrick
that the touch, like the brush of a butterfly's
ming, of Wat's pure lips was to work her
such harm? She might contract baser soil
before she was out of this world.'

There was much talk as well as smothered
laughter (tell it not in Gath !) among the Ev.
Wat's reverend brethren at his extraordinary
scrape, a lively variation on disputes with
heritor and whispers of heresy, the usual
stumbling-blocks of ministers in Scotland. But
even although there . had been a malicious
rival willing to do a bad turn to a man with
his back temporarily at the wall, the case was
clearly not one for the Presbytery.

But the divided, distracted state of the
parish with the alarming prospect of one of
The principal parishioners being subjected to

a public trial in a criminal court, admittedly by
the fault of the minister, was as clearly a
question for the Kirk Session, with which the
Eev. Wat had hitherto worked so harmoniously.
It was an indication of this that
the members, instead of calling on their head
to summon a formal meeting in the crisis, with
the customary readiness in dealing with a
scandal, showed their reluctance to incriminate
their minister and even their delicacy in
approaching the subject, by preferring to appoint
a deputation to call upon him and confer
with him in the manse privately.

Wat was grateful for their forbearance
and consideration. He felt anxious in the middle
of a sore sense of pain and humiliation, which
he told himself sternly was no more than his
desert, to give his office-bearers all the satisfaction
in his power, and to submit as far ashe
could honestly to their decision.

He received the Elders  consisting of the

laird, one of the farmers, and the riddle-maker
in his study, formerly the scene of so much
peace and happiness, with gravity befitting the
occasion, but also with a cordial welcome
signifying his comprehension of their friendly
meaning.

Whatever the Elders' shortcomings might
be, or however they might act, they were
worthy, well-intentioned men, all of them, as
Wat knew to his comfort, in anticipation of
this trying interview. He felt that the traditionary
prayer which he, with so many
Scotch ministers, had been in the habit of
putting up ' every Sunday, that these men
who bore the vessels of the sanctuary ' might
be pure, had been largely answered. He was
thankful that at the most solemn moment in
the services of his church, when he addressed
his immediate followers in the time-honoured
words ' the Elders will now bring in the elements,'
no painful sense of incongruity could

be aroused unless among the thoroughly contumacious,
the ' ill-doers ' who are also the ' ill-readers.'
There was no reasonable call fora
heavy stumbling-block to be found in the
spectacle which presented itself when these
mature, mostly grey-headed men of all ranks,
in their sober yet full dress suits  uniform sofar
as black coats and white ties went  came
in with measured step and reverent mien like
men impressed by the dignity of their duties,
and yet with the sedate composure of servants
who had voluntarily accepted their responsibility,
bearing flagons, cups, and plates.
These were sometimes of precious metal
and old fine workmanship, handed down
in the parish for centuries, sometimes of modern,
homely enough material, but always
containing the symbols of bread and wine,
the substitute for the Host before which, as it
is borne by a simple village priest on a country
road, or by a bishop beneath a canopy in the

principal street of a great capital, every knee
is bent and every face veiled in Woman Catholic
Christendom. These ordinary laymen 
some of them as unlettered as any Scotchman
can be  represented the twelve apostles in
carrying round the bread and wine to the different
' tables,' and offering them in succession
to each intending communicant. The gallant
hero Sir Ralph Abercromby solemnly declared
that he Alas prouder of being elected
an Elder of his parish kirk than of any of the
laurels with which war had crowned him.
And it had been a lawful source of pride to
Wat Baillie that no single-minded sharer in
the ordinance could object to the clean hands
which transmitted its sign.

Though the riddle-maker, who was a bony,
cadaverous man, was, with his gift of speech,
generally the first to begin a discussion, he sat
with a hand on each knee and a face inclined
downwards, leaving the laird to open the ball

to-day; while the polemical farmer, a short,
vigorously compact person, turned his shoulder
on the other three, and stared fixedly out of
the window nearest to him.

The laird, with his long back, high nose,
and sensitive mouth, thus thrust into the front,
did his best to respond to the sudden trust
reposed in him, and not to collapse under the
awkwardness of the situation, and what might
be the false dictates of good breeding in a
gentleman's difficulty in dealing with such a
matter, and interfering in what was certainly
the private affair of another man.

There were a few preliminary observations,
beginning with the inevitable irrelevant remarks
on the weather, and proceeding to more
pertinent inquiries after Wat's health. These
did not imply that his Elders had not asked for
their minister before ; on the contrary, they
had been in frequent, though separate and unofficial
anxious attendance at the manse during

the worst of his illness. The preliminaries
ended with a still more significant interrogation
whether he would venture to preach on the
next Sabbath ; to which Wat answered firmly
in the affirmative.

Then the riddle-maker coughed faintly and
looked up and across at the laird, while the
farmer stirred on his seat.

Mr. Baillie,' began the laird, in a voice
which actually shook, for he had a nervous
constitution, ' I presume you guess the object 
I may say the painful object  of our visit?'

Wat bowed with a heightened colour, but
hastened to add, 'And you will allow me to
say, gentlemen, that I am very glad to see you.
I thank you for this mark of confidence incoming
to me.' As he said it, with the old-fashioned
stateliness which formed the warp to
the woof of what was homely in his manner,
sitting there big and still, it seemed impossible

to bring against a scholar and divine the most
frivolous of accusations.

But this was what Mr. Fowler, the laird of
Murniepae, had to do, and there was no backing
out of the task. Indeed, he never thought
of it. He was a remarkably conscientious man,
though not particularly clear-headed or long-sighted.
' There is no use in attempting to
beat about the bush,' he went on, labouring to
keep calm and matter-of-fact while struggling
with excitement. ' We are all only too well
aware that a very disagreeable, I may call it
grievous, quarrel has arisen in the parish with
which you, sir, are unhappily mixed up ;
in fact, I fear a false step of yours has been
most unfortunately the origin of the whole
matter.'

I beg your pardon, Mr. Fowler,' said the
farmer, sticking round abruptly, and speaking as
if the laird were beating about the bush ;

before we go any farther I should just like to
ask the minister the plain truth of the story.'

Wat bent his head again, as if he had said
You are entitled to it, and you shall have it.'
It was by his own idiotic deed he had subjected
himself to being sat upon and cross-examined
by his Elders. The process was exquisitely
disconcerting and vexatious to all concerned ;
but the inquisitors were not intentionally
rendering it insufferable. He was bound to
submit to the indignity as many would feel
it.

The laird thus called to order, and summoned
from the roundabout to the straightforward
mode of interrogation, hurried on with
a startling jerk to the core of the question :
Is it true, sir, that you kissed Miss Bruce
Kirkpatrick ? '

Yes, I did, I am sorry to say,' answered
Wat with a quietness which was no test of his
contrition, but rather of the force put upon

himself in the admission, while he knit his
brows and his lips whitened perceptibly.

Confessed like a man,' the farmer was
saying to himself.

Pair frail mortals ! ' the riddle-maker was
moralising.

But the laird, though he had been compelled
to believe the report from the first, since the story
could not have attained the dimensions it had
taken without some foundation, rather resented,
whether from caste prejudice or from some
more occult cause, Wat's instant unqualified
admission of his offence. He spoke again with
sharpness. ' May I ask if you are engaged to
be married to the young lady ? '

No, I am not,' replied Wat instantly.

Or is there any probability of your becoming
engaged'

Not that I know of,' answered Wat a little
oddly, as if he were staggered by being so
pushed, and as if he asked, in turn, would the

latter contingency alTord any apology for the
trespass ?

The laird had been undergoing a sliding
scale of provocation. Every word Wat spoke
tended, in spite of him, to irritate Mr. Fowler
still farther, till he was fairly incensed, for
the good man had a fiery temper. ' Mr.
Baillie, you are my clergyman, and you
have been my friend; but let me, an old man,
tell you, a young man, what you do not seem
to see for yourself. Your conduct was most
indefensible. You have created a scandal in
the parish, and brought a stigma on the Church.
You have driven a young gentleman to seek a
rash remedy for what he considered, justly, an
insult to his sister and a wrong to his family ;
which may end in farther and still deadlier
wrong. What he did on a momentary impulse
of outraged affection and natural  even praiseworthy
 resentment, may bring down on him
a cruelly heavy punishment.'

Canny, laird, canny !' besought the riddle-maker.


Surely we are not here to defend Mr.
Claud Kirkpatrick's unlawful violence,' exclaimed
the farmer with some heat. He was
one of the sprinkling of democrats in the parish,
and had a standing pique at lairds, not excepting
his own laird. Besides, he was always ready
to fight the very stones of the wall for what he
regarded as the right side in a dispute. Since
he approved on the whole of Wat's demeanour,
he naturally turned upon his brother Elder.

Mr. Fowler,' Wat interposed hastily, ' you
are perfectly right ; and nobody can be more
willing than I to admit that my behaviour was
gentlemanlike . '

Hours ! ' muttered the riddle-maker. ' We
have nought to do with what is ungentleman-like
; it is what is Christianity we hare come
about.'

The grand old name of gentleman had

VOL. III. M

clearly been misapplied in Andrew Sands
hearing.

It was quite indefensible,' Wat was going
on to grant in sad fullness of confidence. 'I
do not know what induced me to be so foolish,
but my rearing was not refined. The lassie
teased me, and I gave her a kiss, before she
or I knew what she was about, to silence her,'
he said, half speaking to himself, with a partial
return to the vernacular.

Eh ! man ; what for did ye no resist the
Enemy, and he would hare floor frae ye ? '
put in the riddle-maker in wistful reproach.

But Wat took no notice as he hurried to
get done with his confession. ' That is the
short and long of the story. It was very
thoughtless and wrong. I forgot my cloth,
I forgot her position, the example I was bound
to show, the tongues that might wag. No one
can be more distressed than I am. I would
give half of my goods to undo a moment's

folly. I would cut off my right hand rather
than that Claud Kirkpatrick should come to
harm by my means.'

Well and stoutly spoken, Minister ! ' exclaimed
the farmer loudly and defiantly, as if
he would have liked to spring up and ' clap '
Wat on the back. Indeed, Wat's champion
told the farmer's family afterwards it would
have melted the heart of a stone to hear a
grand man like the minister own to a lad's
fault with a child's simplicity and pain. ' The
best of us is liable to err, and nobody, however
bigotted '  he pronounced the word with
the accent on the second syllable, and meant
prejudiced, not fanatical, with an intended
rebuke to the laird  ' can refuse to own that
you have been frank in your explanation, and
made all the amends in your power.'

The laird, too, was touched and practically
disarmed by the not unmanly meekness
and singleness of heart with which Wat had

M 2

received his censor's strictures and offered his
explanation. Mr. Fowler was a generous man
in his recurring excitability. 'It is a most
unfortunate business,' he said, wiping his forehead,
and speaking still with perturbation
- though much more placably. ' But I hope
and trust the ferment and bad feeing will
blow over, and the threatened schism come
to nothing after all. I am not here to make
matters worse. If I have said anything, Mr.
Baillie, which we could wish unsaid, you must
attribute it to the esteem in which I have
always held my minister, and the gratification
I derived from what looked the very flourishing
condition of Christianity in the parish, so
that I have beheld with the greater grief the
blight that has overtaken our prosperity. But
I am bound to agree with my fellow-Elder *  he
spoke a little stiffly here  ' that you, sir, have
been perfectly frank with us. And when a
man, be he minister or layman, gentle or

simple, allows that he has been in the wrong,
is sorry for it, and will avoid such temptations
in future, when that is all the reparation
possible in the circumstances, I do not see
that anything more can be required of him.
I suggest that, so far as the Kirk Session has todo
with the case, no farther notice should betaken
of it, though it must attain the miserable
notoriety of a secular law court.'

And I propose as an amendment,' declared
the farmer, forgetting that he was not at a
regularly constituted meeting, ' that we enter
in our minutes in fit and proper language that
we find the clash arose from a trifle  not worth
a bawbee or half a thought in a reasonable
being's mind. We hold that we have no good
ground for disapproving  far less censuring 
the minister's conduct. On the contrary, we
maintain that a most monstrous, dastardly outrage
'

No, no, Mr. Dunlop ; you must not say or

write that,' cried Wat, won to a smile, the first
he had smiled that day, by the zeal of his
adherent. ' If I have your forgiveness for
what is past and your sympathy in the ordeal
which is yet to come, it is more than enough
far more than I have any title to expect.'

The laird was not grudging when he had
begun to concede the difference. 'You shall
have that, sk. I think I may promise your
Elders will stand by you. It is some comfort
to know we can still work together, and intime
look forward to bygones being bygones.'

There's no mistake that the whole stramash
is a dispensation of Providence to mind us
we're but sinful' dust and ashes, and keep us
from erecting idols, and being uplifted because
of the number of our members and the size of
our classes. If you hae nae objection, sirs, I
wad have somebody put up a bit of prayer
before we part, beseeching' the Almighty to
order and improve the dispensation for His

glory and our gude, and to bring and keep usa'
in the riclit gait henceforth.'

'With all my heart, Mr. Sandbanks,' said
Wat. He always called his Elder ' Mr. Sandbanks
' when the latter was acting in any way
officially, though the minister was in the habit
of dropping into ' Andrew ' when he bought
the riddle-maker's riddles, ' and do you, who
have had the grace to think of it, put up the
prayer.'

Before the Nathaniel had ended his quaint,
earnest petition, and the petitioners had risen
from their knees, peace and goodwill were
restored among them. Wat Baillie's session-house
was not destined to become a stronghold
of his enemies. At the same time Wat was
inclined to judge, just as some of us think the
bitterness of death is past for us after we have
been forced to meet the last enemy in the
persons of those dearer than our own souls,
that after having faced the deputation of his

Elders on this delicate question, he could face
any court in the kingdom -and he at least was
right.

The court implied a multitude, but it was
for the most part a strange multitude, not the
familiar faces which had been wont, even where
the laird and the polemical farmer were concerned,
to defer and look up to the minister.
The crowd which assembled to hear the interesting
details of a laird's having ' thrashed ' his
parish minister to the point of insensibility, with
risk to life, because the minister had kissed
the laird's sister, did not come under the head of
the crowd, in which many women of all ranks
bear a part, that has become a prominent
ominous feature in recent trials for murder.
There it would seem that the spectacle of a
human creature at bay in the hardest, last
extremity short of the hangman's hands, has
taken the place of a bull-fight or a gladiatorial
show, as a welcome sensation to jaded,

brutalised imaginations. This was a crowd
that collected from all sides, not for a tragedy,
but for a comedy, out of sheer love of diversion,
because of the comicality, irrespective of the
torture which might lie under the fun. It
was a crowd that came to jeer and giggle,
and for the most part it did jeer and giggle
to its heart's content, undeterred even by the
judge's formal reprimand, and the usher's
mechanical ' Silence ! ' Had not the judge and
usher been themselves grinning the moment
before ? For there are allusions which are
sure to provoke a laugh in public though they
can be heard in private without eliciting the
ghost of a smile. The minister of Birkenbarns
had to answer some of the awkward questions
he had answered to his Elders, and the slight,
sickly lad at the bar was proved to have felled
the big man in the witness-box. It was all
superlatively absurd, no doubt, and only exceptional
persons in the audience not closely

connected with the case, who might have
joined in the general merriment for a moment,
looked beyond the laughter and reached regions
above and beneath it. These spectators
contemplated the style of Wat's presence, and
the pallor and flush which rose in succession to
his brow, and grew grave. Then they looked
at the half-blustering, half-sulky, puny youngster
opposed to Wat Baillie with his fine
physique. Claud Kirkpatrick's wandering,
blood-shot eyes were never caught and fixed
in an honest answer to an inquiring glance.
His entire aspect bore traces of desperate dissipation
and degradation. The humane, high-minded
gazers grew graver still as they looked.
By the greatest effort and influence Bruce
had not been called on to appear in the witness-box.
Li the same manner the whole strength
of Claud's counsel had been employed so that
the very name and nature of the ancient crime
of ' Hamesucken ' should be left out of the

case, and the charge should be confined to
assault with hostile intent.

Even after the success of the manoeuvre
and all the gloss which could be put on the
affair, by dwelling pathetically upon the jealousy
of an attached brother with regard to the
slightest injury done to a young orphan sister,
of whom he was the natural guardian and
defender, the best lawyer in practice could not
have prevented a jury's finding the charge
proven and the prisoner guilty. And not the
most lenient judge with the most aristocratic
bias could have pronounced a more merciful
sentence than six months' imprisonment, if law
were not to dwindle into a mockery.

The prisoner was quickly withdrawn from
the court, to drown his petulant, ungrateful,
idiotically arrogant protest that he had been
done and sold by the whole pack  advocates,
jury, and judge. The country was coming to
a pretty pass when a gentleman could not calla

clerical cub like Baillie to account for a piece
of cursed insolence to a lady and a Kirkpatrick,
without being disgracefully served.

The Eeverend Wat retired hanging his
head. He would need all the support of his
Elders, all the stay of a conscience void of any
other offence save that of a moment's levity.
For though he might convict himself of folly,
he could not accuse himself of falsehood, meanness,
time-serving, or intentional wrong to
any human being.

CHAPTER XII.

'Stirling AT THE PIN.'

They might as well have killed Claud at
once ! ' the elder Miss Kirkpatrick cried out in
despair. Talk of manslaughter ! It would be
Claud who would be slain in cold blood
because he had loved his sister and stood up
for her like a man against a shameful advantage
taken of her thoughtlessness, with all the ill-natured
gossip which was sure to spread abroad.
Was Claud a fit person for a prison ? It made
their blood run cold and broke their hearts
to think of it. And when had a Kirkpatrick
been named in the same breath with a gaol
since Jacobite times, when the laird of that

generation had lain with his peers in the
Tower under a charge of high treason ?

But the mourners were a little soothed
when they learned that the sentence might be
regarded as nominal in many respects. Claud
would not be put in the prison dress, or subjected
to hard labour or prison fare ; therefore
the imprisonment need not be held an
indelible stain. Doubtless the governor would
be brought to wink at the ladies driving over
to the county town almost every day of the
week, carrying with them all the dainties the
sisters could think of or Claud could fancy, for
their pet. The prison was in a most healthy
situation ; it was dreadful to have to think of
that in relation to Claud, still the Misses Kirkpatrick
need not refuse to be thankful that the
place had the highest character for salubrity.
As to the term of the sentence, it was sure to
be shortened on account of the delicacy of
the prisoner's constitution and the extent to

which he was certain to suffer from confinement.


It all came about as hopeful friends and
satellites had ventured to predict. Claud
Kirkpatrick enjoyed exceptional fame and importance,
without many drawbacks, in the
county gaol. If he was not exactly feted, he
was visited and condoled with, both by equals
and inferiors, in the most attentive manner.
Prison rules were considerably relaxed on his
account. Even respectable elderly ladies 
though Claud would have little to say to them 
who were in the habit of visiting on religious
and philanthropic errands, a very different
style of prisoner, were smitten by the sorry
enough grains of chivalry and romance, together
with the glamour of superior rank in the offence
and the offender. They had their tender hearts
so softened towards the young fellow who had
been a wild madman for his fatherless young
sister's sake, that they would have done anything

for this comfort and for the beguiling of
the irksomeness of his stay in their sphere. He
lent a wonderful interest to what they had
elected to be their life-work, therefore they
were bound to repay him. They did not
presume to offer him tracts, but the ladies were
proud to send, with a delicious pretence of
secrecy, a choice of their most comfortable
easy-chairs for his use, and to smuggle into the
governor's care the most toothsome preserves
in their cupboards for Claud's delectation. In
addition, the gentle owners proposed to lend
the interesting youth the liveliest tales iu
their libraries of street Arabs. It is needless
to say Claud did not want the easy-chairs or
preserves, and never looked into the annals of
the Arabs.

The commutation of Claud's sentence took
place at the end of the first three months, when
he had grown thoroughly tired of the variety
in his life which being locked up had afforded

him. The doctor certified that his health, such
as it was, had begun to give way, and an order
of release was signed, to the jubilation of all
save the prison authorities, to whom the period
of Claud's incarceration had been an agreeable
interlude.

There could not be two dispassionate
opinions on the question, that by far the
heavier share of the penalty for the offence
fell on the minister. It was not that his
health suffered permanently; it might have
been better for him, in more lights than one,
if it had. But long before the trial he was as
well and powerful-looking as ever, which had
enabled Claud's counsel  sin spite of medical
evidence, which, to be sure, does not go for
much in courts of law  to point the finger of
scorn at any assertion that his client had done
more than knock down the minister of Bird
in the gentlest, well-nigh facetious
fashion of that ordinarily not too gentle and

VOL. III. N

jocular performance. And there was nothing
like general pity for any other injury worse
than bodily harm which Wat Bailie might
have suffered. Claud Kirkpatrick's imprisonment
was a tangible evil, but any disappointment
and misery endured by Wat were far
beyond the range of common sympathies. The
minister had failed in his high calling ; he had
proved a source of strife instead of a peacemaker.
There was what the Laird of Muriel
had called a slur upon him, a drag upon
all his future movements. Though he preached
even more earnestly and carefully than ever,
his once well-filled church became more and
more deserted. The noble patron who had
presented Wat with the Having was at home fora
season; but, disgusted with the unheard-of
difficulty into which his man had got, he did
not choose to bestow his countenance on the
culprit, but continued the languid, fitful
attendance at the Episcopal Church he was

wont to give when away from Birkenbarns.
Thus the parish and the kirk of Scotland lost
one of the few noblemen that were left to them.
The Kirkpatricks were the next in the order
of lairds, and of course their pew remained
vacant ; others of the upper class considered
themselves bound to resent the sin against
caste, though the Laird of Murniepae, with the
other Elders, continued faithful to his allegiance.
Several tenant-farmers on the Birken-
craig estate  partly from an old feudal feeling,
still more from policy  began to drop off from
the parish kirk and wander off to other kirks,
whose ministers did not decline to make them
welcome. For, alas ! more than one of Wat's
brethren who had laughed at his trouble, when
they saw to what it had led, caring a good deal
for the opinion of men, took to showing him a
cold shoulder, while they did not refuse to
benefit by his loss. A portion of the misinformed
labouring class  though not, of course,

N 2

the paupers, who represent a permanent institution
in a parish  departed with their employers.

It was at this time that a party of strangers,
happening to be in Wat's kirk listening to one
of his heartfelt, eloquent sermons, preached to
the next thing to bare walls, expressed their
surprise that the preacher was not better
appreciated even by stolid, bucolic intellects,
and received the astounding explanation in an
ambiguous version of the style of the House
that Jack built : This was the minister that had
kissed the laird's sister', that had been thrashed
by the laird, that had lain in gaol for the deed.

Wat was terribly disheartened. He had
thought that he sat lightly by public favour ;
but when it was withdrawn from him, when
his parishioners were shrinking and dwindling
away before his eyes, and his friends were
turning their backs upon him, he could have
told a different tale.

It would seem as if this father and mother,
ill spite of their complacent philosophy, had
been inordinately vain of their son's social
standing and influence, so deeply did they resent
his downfall, so constantly did they visit
it on him in aspersions and reflections, which
held him up in his own eyes as little better
than a hypocrite and black sheep among ministers.
' Ay, my man, your tricks hare brocht
ye to a fine pass,' his mother would tell him
austerely. ' Better ye had ticket afore ye
entered the poopet. How can ye ever hand
up you're head there again, when you hare
been becket for idle daflin', like ony graceless
lad. More by token ye hare caused a pair
silly callant o' a laird to be thrown into jail for
the best turn he ever played in seeking' to look
after his ain gypsy o' a sister. Ye hare broken
their friends' hearts. I'm wae to think a son o'
mine  man-muckle, wi' his wisdom teeth cut,

leta-be a minister  could be sae licht in the
head.'

Mother,' cried Wat, appealing in desperation
to old fellow-feeing and momentary weakness,
' did my father never steal a kiss from you
in your courting days ? '

Mrs. Baillie turned sternly upon her son.
You're no blate lad to mint that to your
mither. Tammas Bile kenned better what
became him and me than to presume over far,
and he was not a preacher o' the gospel, no to
say an ordained minister, who oct to have
been like a licht set on a candlestick or a hill.
Neither are you making' up in earnest to Miss
Bruce Kirkpatrick ; od if the young laird
thocht that, he would not stick at murdering'
you, there's sic spunk in the waikly body o'
him.'

'He had better try it again,' said Wat
grimly ; then he called himself to order. ' No,
of course, there is no thought of that,' he said

hastily, in a lower tone, and with a sigh, in
answer to her implied question.

It would be simple Jockeys and Jenny
who would come and listen ony mair to your
lectures and expositions, no to say your prayers,
after sic work,' his mother assured him coolly.
I'm thinking' ye had better died up and try a
seule, if your character will stand that muckle
exam, and if your ill-name cinna gang afore
you and hang you.'

Weel, Wat, I thocht to hare done my part
to your glebe,' groaned his father; 'but gin the
nowt hare run through your reputation as a
minister, you may e'en tak your mither's advice.
The bonnie fields maun gang with the
kirk and manse afore we hare gotten a bushel
for a' the gude dung I hare patten into the
Ian.'

Eachie never flinched from her brother, but
she, like himself, was unduly depressed by the
misfortunes which undoubtedly he had brought

upon himself. She was nearer being crushed
along with him, than capable of cheering hhu
by an elastic spirit, and a faith that would
not falter.

When the news came that Claud Kirkpatrick
was free and coming home, a new idea
laid hold of his partisans, for a faction had
come into being on his behalf. They would
give him a welcome home to wipe off the little
stain of his imprisonment, and show they
thought he had been badly treated, while the
demonstration would serve as an additional
sign of their determined and lasting condemnation
of the minister.

As the reception awarded to Claud was not
to begin till the prison bounds were passed,
there could be no official interference with the
pretty plan. Some of the wiser of Claud's
family friends did look coldly on the suggestion
which was, in fact, a defiance of the sentence
of the law. They made an attempt to

extinguish the proposal in its first sparks, but
this prudent conduct only fanned the enthusiasm
of the more foolish into a brighter flame.
Unfortunately, the idea chimed in only too
well with the weakness of the elder Misses
Kirkpatrick. Mary and Lily had entirely lost
sight of the fact that Claud had been condemned
and sentenced justly for a crime against
law and society. They did not require to be
persuaded that their neighbours fully agreed
with them in regarding their boy as an innocent
victim, the next thing to a hero, and a
very fair substitute for that rare and often uncomfortable
production. They were full of
inconsiderate joy as over Claud's triumph.
There was something half piteous, half provoking
in their delusion. All the concession
that the more upright and sensible spirits on
Claud's side could gain, was that there should
be no public allusion to the minister, no hissing
or groaning at him, no resort to the manse

with the purpose of burning his effigy under
his nose. Miss Kirkpatrick and Miss Lily saw
the propriety of the reservation, <3n their sister's
account if for nothing else, that her share in
the story might, if possible, sip into the background
of people's minds. But, indeed, they
were not vindictive women, and were quite
sincere in solemnly assuring whoever cared to
listen that they wished no harm to Wat Bailie.
It could not be called harm to desire that his
eyes might be opened to the gross solecism he
had committed, and that he might be sorry for
all the worry and distress he had occasioned.
But the past was happily over, when a public
honour should atone to Claud for a public
affront, so that the last might be clean wiped
out. As good Christians, therefore, the Misses
Kirkpatrick forgave Wat Bailie, though it was
not to be thought they could ever speak to him
again, or re-enter the church of Birkenbarns
during the tenure of his ministry. It was inconvenient,

and still felt, somehow, strange and
wrong, to drive a mile and a half farther to
Muirend Church on Sundays and to have Mr.
Fraser instead of the ladies' parish minister to
any ' dinner party ' over which they had still a
chance of presiding. But this state of matters
could not be helped.

Thus the manse and its occupants were
left to as much peace as they could be expected
to feel, when they were thoroughly acquainted
with the circumstances. Claud Kirkpatrick's
friends and neighbours were to take advantage
of the termination of his imprisonment, to meet
and escort him home, as if he had been returning
from the wars, or were bringing back a bride,
which would be the next reason for rejoicing
no doubt. And there was to be a great entertainment
at Birkencraig afterwards.

The afternoon and evening dragged out
slowly at Birkenbarns with a markedly uncomfortable
sense of the family having been sent to

Coventry, and sint out of a natural connection
with what was going on within a short
distance of them. The very topic which was
engrossing everyone, though he and she happened
to be absent from the singular festival,
was tacitly shunned in the Baillie household 
only Mrs. Baillie diversified the dulness of the
time by sundry reminiscences of parish doings,
in which the minister had always played a
prominent part ending by an assertion which
nobody contradicted, ' Weel-a-weel, it's a fell
change. I daresay there has na been, what
may be called a public dinner in the place, at
which the minister has na said grace and returned
thanks  no since my mither's day
when there was a drunken minister who had
to be deposed before his first year was out.'

Wat's first year was out, but how many
more years he was to spend there, or if he
were to fulfil another in the grand service, in
which he had hoped to end his days, it would

have been hard to say. If his people meted
away like snow before the first spring sunshine,
he could not stay on to be a permanent 
among them.

At last the March evening closed in and
drew to an end. The weather was dull and
depressing. The cold had strengthened as the
day lengthened. There was little promise even
of a primrose, and the Craig still bore a patch
of snow, sodden and splashed by ineffectual
rain on its disconsolate head. The one comfort
was that darkness soon hid the cheerless
landscape. The Books were brought in, the
herrings were eaten, Wat, with a sigh of
relief, received his mother and father's last
good night, and was left alone with Eachie in
the dining-room.

The brother and sister had not the spirit
to repair to the study this night, though
Mrs. Baillie had taken the precaution to rake
out the last embers of the fire from the grate

in the family sitting-room, while the night was
settling down piercingly cold.

Eachie was stitching at Dorcas work, the
minister had let his head fall on his hand, and
suffered himself to lapse into a gloomy silence.
His sister could not bear to leave him to himself,
but as the clock struck eleven she began
to gather her work together.

My mother will not be pleased if we sit
up longer, wasting licht, since you are not
studying, Wat,' she said in a pleading
tone.

Who said I was not studying ? ' he asked,
recovering himself with a laugh which was not
very joyous, ' the hardest lesson to study  a
man's own failure, such a contemptible failure
too. But it must be profitable ; the contrite
heart will be accepted in the day of small
things as in that of great  don't you think so,
Eachie? A straw may show how the wind
blows  a straw has shown that I was careless,

self-confident, and, as my mother says, light in
the head

Oh, Wat ! ' remonstrated Eachie  but as
she spoke there came a rap at the front door,
which sounded startlingly loud in the stillness
of the house, for Mrs. Baillie's unflagging feet
and voice were at rest for the next seven
hours, and ' Sairey ' was at liberty to sleep
soundly on her chaff bed. It was a quick,
stumbling rap, as of one eager to be heard
and answered. It was also uncertain and
tremulous in the application, like the rap of
a person whose mind was disturbed and his
purpose uncertain.

'What's that?' cried Eachie in a scared
voice, as if it could be anything else than a
rap, or as if thieves announced their entrance
by a previous summons for admission.

Somebody wanting me,' cried Wat, beginning
to look brisk and hopeful again, as if
there was the height of refreshment in the very

idea of being wanted. ' It is well that I am
of use yet. Stay where you are for a
moment, Eachie, in case it be an errand for
some poor sick body, with help needed instantly
that they could not get elsewhere.
I'll open the door, and take the messenger into
the study. If I do not come back in five
minutes go to your bed. I may have to turnout,
for, you know, it may be a poor soul
on the verge of another world, fain to bespoken
for to his Maker and Father  as if that
were wanted  and to have another word of
consolation and encouragement ; or his friends
may be fain for him. In that case I'll lock
the door, take the key, and let myself in.'

Wat went. Eachie heard him open the
door, and apparently without waiting to hold
more than a word of communication with the
messenger, proceed to conduct the person to
his study.

The next moment Wat came back as if hei

had seen a ghost, for the colour of his own
face was the gray of ashes. But he knew
what he was about, for he closed the door
behind him, and spoke in a whisper. ' Kachie,
it is Miss Bruce Kirkpatrick. She has come
the whole mirk road alone, in her slippers,
with nothing but a rag of a handkerchief tied
over her head. Hoar frost or sleet is falling,
for her hair is powdered white, and her feet
are soaking. She will get her death of cold.
For God's sake make up the fire, give me the
brandy, bring a change of clothes, and come
to her immediately.'

Miss Bruce  the night  at this hour  her
lane ! ' cried Eachie, in a succession of gasps.
Oh, Wat ! what brings her here ? She'll be
your destruction, the destruction o' ye faith.'

Whisht, whisht, woman ! I cannot tell
what brings her, and I cannot stop to ask ,
I'm afraid she has run away from Birkencraig,

VOL. 111.

Oh! make haste, Kachie, to succour her, for
she is entitled to the best we have to give

Eachie was not so sure of that till she saw
the wild-looking, dripping figure of the poor
girl, whom she too had admired from a distance
in the past as ' bonnie petted little Miss
Bruce.'

Neither Kachie nor even Wat ever knew
exactly what drove Bruce to the desperate step
she took. She had come home from her
banishment some time before Claud's release,
and there had been an apparent reconciliation
between them. She had gone with her sisters
to visit him, and the sight of her brother in a
gaol  however the situation might be glossed
over, for an act to which she had given provocation
 had completely overcome her proud,
independent spirit, and the resentment she had
been cherishing. She sobbed on Claud's shoulder,
and begged him to forgive her, as if she
alone had been in fault; while Claud suffered

the embrace and granted the prayer for pardon
as if they were his due.

But when Claud came home in triumph
the tables were turned, and another temper
was roused in the girl. She bethought herself
of all the exposure he had brought on her, all
the blame, humiliation, and ridicule she had
been forced to undergo, and the unacknowledged,
repented-of injury he had done her
in his frantic passion rankled in her mind.

The elder Misses Kirkpatrick, in their
lamentable supineness, had permitted Lord
Sandy, and some other equally undesirable
associates of Claud's, to assist at his homecoming,
which was as much as to say that the
festival was let degenerate into an orgy long
before midnight. After most of the guests
were gone, Claud, worn out with fatigue and
excitement, and no longer fit for ladies' society,
or for any other company, in an evil moment
came across his young sister. He was not so


lost to what was passing around him as to fail
to see her usual indignant pio test at the state
he was in, and the companions who had
reduced him to it. In his opinion she was
now the last person in the world entitled to
take such ground. He implied as much in a
speech in which the taunt addressed to her
was neither delicate nor veiled.

She answered sharply and quitted the
room.

He followed her, and then the furious
ill-conditioned lad, incapable of self-mastery or
even common consideration of what he was
about, committed some outrage which she
would never repeat. He might have struck
her an unmanly blow, lie might merely have
turned the key in the door of the room she had
entered, with a loud remark that she was not
lit to be trusted, and that it would be more like
the thing if it were she and not he who was
locked up.

Whatever he did, it was the last straw
which broke the earners back. The galling
insult, which made all that had gone before
it utterly unbearable, drove her into open
revolt.

The room was an old school-room on the
ground-floor ; she had often before leapt out of
the window in sport in day-light ; she did it
now in earnest, under cloud of night, when
the rest of the household were assembled
elsewhere.

For the moment Bruce was almost as reckless
as Claud. She did not care what became
of her, so that she escaped from farther
cruel wrong at his hands.

Finding herself in the wet and darkness of
an inclement night, she hardly knew where to
turn, but half instinctively she took the familiar
road to the manse, and traversed it still more
aggrieved by the unwonted exposure which
she had brought on herself She was in a

measure scared by it, and rendered wilder and
more distraught. But she was not prevented
from accomplishing the walk along the lonely
road where still she might have been met, and
whether recognised or not, stopped, assailed,
insulted. She told herself, in her hot young
blood and her ignorance, that she was
fleeing from worse insult, and she was not
hindered from making the only appeal which
entered her head. The way appeared interminable,
but it came to an end at last.

'Mr. Baillie,' she said distinctly, though
her teeth were chattering and she was shaking
like a leaf from head to foot, 'will you take
me in, and give me shelter to-night, and I
will go away tomorrow and never trouble you
or any other body more ? ' She addressed
Eachie much in the same strain, calling her
simply by her christian name, as Bruce had not
been accustomed to do. 'Eachie, will you
find a place for me and help me to get warm

again, for I am perishing with cold ? I think I
never knew before what cold meant. Will you
take me into your room or let me sit by the
lapped " kitchen fire ? I don't mind, and I'll
go away as soon as it is light, and not put anybody
about more than I can help.'

There was little sleep for Wat Baillie and
his sister that night, though the deprivation
was made up to one of them by the rapid
growth of a dream of delight, contending
successfully with a waking crowd of anxieties
and cares. As for the cause of the sleeplessness,
after she had been warmed and comforted in her
body, she soon sank into the ready slumber of
youth, and the combined exhaustion of extreme
agitation and fatigue, for she had run rather
than walked the distance.

So far as Wat could discover, she had
formed no plan for the future beyond a vague
vehement persuasion that she would die or
suffer anything rather than go back to her

brother's house, granting that he would take
her in and not turn her from the door. She supposed,
in an indefinite way, with the hazy half-genuineness,
half-despair of youth, some place
would be found for her. She did not speak of
her more distant relations, since she knew they
had been displeased with her before as the
cause of so much trouble ; and she might well
guess, even in the whirl and distraction of her
ideas, that this fresh scandal and defiance would
raise them all up in arms against her.

Wat had made his plans before morning,
and imparted them to Eachie, who, for that
matter, acquiesced in them, with many
doubts and " fears, sorely exercised for her
beloved brother. It vss as well that he was
prepared, for the moment he came down from
his room, he was hailed by his mother, who, to
his surprise, prepared to sit down to breakfast
in her bonnet and shawl, while his father wore
his Sunday clothes.

Of course Mrs. Baillie knew of the arrival
during the previous night, and she was not
going to waste a moment in expressing her
opinion of it.

Are you bound for a journey, mother ? '
asked Wat, trying to speak as lightly and
indifferently as possible.

Ay, Wat, that am I,' she answered emphatically.
' It is high time I should be taking
my foot in my hand. I cannot hinder sic ongoings
as have taken place, and are a shame to
a manse as they will be a by word in the parish,
but I can manifest they were with no will c*
mine.'

'Mother,' he said, ' you had better wait for
an explanation.'

It doesna' behove me to wait, lad, and the
thing bodes of no explanation. Na, na, you
hare gotten another mistress for your manse,
and I'm no wanted. Gin she had come a
wise-like gate, at a proper time, and been a fit

wife for you, I would hare made her welcome,
and bidden still and learned her how to guide
your house, and no bring you to ruin, as so
mony men are brocht. But I'll stay for no
gude-daughter  teddy or no teddy  sit's an unco
unleddy-hke trick, who comes linking' in the
dark o' her ain accord, though I cinna misdoubt
she got plenty o' encouragement; and
it was a' plotted and schemed between you
beforehand.'

'You are completely mistaken,' exclaimed
Wat, whose colour had been rising to a deep
glow, while his tongue was tied by the flow of
words addressed to him.

But ony way,' Mrs. Bailie rushed on in
her charge, not to be silenced for a moment,
she's thrown herself at a man's head and
ta'en refuge in his loose like an ill-doer that
dreaded war wite would fa' upon her.'

'This is not to be permitted, even from
you,' protested Wat. starting up.

'And wha'U stop me?' demanded Mrs.
Baillie, proceeding in a fine vein of irony.
Permitted quo' he ? Pair man, it will be a
wonder gin he's permitted to keep his kirk
after decoying a yomig teddy to break loose
from her friends, and rin to him.'

Mother, once for all, will you allow me to
explain ? '

Explain wa', Wat, but words will no
mend deeds.'

If it is the presence of Miss Bruce Kirkpatrick
in the house to which you object,'
began Wat with an unconscious assumption of
his stately manner, ' I grant you that is undesirable
under present circumstances, but it will
soon come to an end. She is to set out after
breakfast with Eachie.'

And where are they gain' ? ' interrupted
Mrs. Baillie with inflated nostrils, ' and what for
am I no to be consulted about Eachie's gain' ?
I dour her to gang ony gate without my knowledge

and leave. I forbid her to steer a step 
a fell-like minister you are, Wat Belie wi' a*
your broke o' duty, and morals, and works, first
to entice a lassie and back her against her
brother and sisters  though I'm no saying' the
scriptor demands honour for them  and syne
to put up Eachie to deceit and insubordination.'
Mother,' said Wat, ' it is the one favour I
ask from you, and if you refuse it, I do not
hesitate to say I will never ask another. Eachie
is only to accompany Miss Bruce Kirkpatrick
three hours' journey by the train to the house
of my old friend and principal Dr. Astray.
He is a respected minister of the Church of
Scotland, the esteemed head of a college  you
yourself were proud when lie came to preach
for me and said that was something like
preaching. You know his house Alas a second
home to me when I was at college, and Mrs.
Eattray was a second mother. I have given
Eachie a letter to the Doctor, and Mrs. Eattray

will not refuse to take in my sister and Miss
Bruce Kirkpatrick for my sake. Now, have
you anything to say against such a step ? Will
it compromise Eachie ? or am I the man to ask-her
to do anything that could go against the
grain with her, or reasonably offend you ? '

In spite of herself, Mrs. Baillie was taken
aback by the resolute statement, but she was
not inclined to show how far she was impressed,
or to give in more than she could avoid, though
Wat's solemn passionate words about the one
favour he would ask from her, had their effect.
And you'll be to follow the lasses a' in gude
time,' she said with a little accent of derision ;

and there will be a braw wedding' over in

Edinburgh, if Dr. and Mrs. Eattray are sic rules
as to lend themselves to white-wash a bad
job.

That is as it may be. That is for another
person to decide,' said Wat, keeping his temper,
and speaking firmly, though again the tell-tale

colour rose high in his face. He had carried
his point so far that Mrs. Bailie did not forbid
Eachie to go on her brother's errand, but
neither would their mother defer her own and
her husband's abrupt departure. She said she
had sent out to Lowrie who had a message to
the town that morning, to bid Geordie Leghorn
fetch her box, and it would be the waste of a
hire for her to change her mind which besides
she saw no sufficient cause for doing. She was
going to her cousin's at the other side of
Wliinny Loan, she had got many a bidding 
and she could look about her and settle what
was to become of her and Tammas afterwards.
They were up in years, and would not need the
little they wanted long. Their son, for whom
they had fought a battle in their prime, who
had his kirk and his manse and all his orders
and was about to intermarry with the gentry,
could not have the face to let them starve, she
could lippen to him for that, but these newfangled

notions of what was right were not for
her, and her presence was not desirable in the
changes which were coming.

Wat could not contradict her, though his
heart was sore at her desertion of him. He
could only slip one of the two five-pound notes
which were in the house into his father's hand,
and volunteer to come and see the couple in the
course of the week.

The nest was flown where the imperious
old bird and her submissive mate were concerned,
and Bruce had only to encounter Eachie
and her brother when she came down. The
girl was shy with a trepidation that was
foreign to her and yet was winning in her.

But in the middle of her distress there was
still an evident spice of relish for the excitement
of a strange adventure, enough to prove
that she scarcely realised to this moment, the
grave consequences of what she had done ina
fit of anger and rashness. Here also all the

forethought and foreboding, ' the heavier end of
the string,' as they say in Scotland, was left for
Wat to carry.

He told her what he proposed she should
do as soon as they were alone together ; and
while she looked at him questioningly, doubtfully,
with her ]brown eyes alight, and her
colour and breath coming and going fast in a
tumult of contradictory feelings, lie added a
few words which could not be mistaken. ' I
am sending you away from the manse, because
it seems best for you to anticipate idle gossip.
But it rests with yourself whether you will not
soon return and stay here for the rest of your
days as the honoured mistress of the house,
so far as its master can heap honour upon you,
as his dear wife.'

'Oh, I did not mean that,' she said
piteously, her colour coming and going worse
than ever.

I know,' he said, gently ; ' and I would not

hurry you if it could be helped ; I am sure you
believe that. I would not take advantage of
your position, if I were convinced you had an
insuperable objection to the end I am proposing,
which I am mad enough to think is the
most natural, the wisest, and best end after all,,
though you did not mean it. Your family will
be offended, and if I had not good reason to
suppose they were so already, beyond the hope
of reconciliation, it would be my duty to try,
first to heal the breach, which I am satisfied is
no longer susceptible of healing. I fancy I,
too, did not dare to mean this end in the beginning,
still, even in the ordinary course of events,
we might have come to think of it  you don't
deny it  Bruce, my dear love,' cried Miscarried
away by the dazzling vision of a bright,
fair, loving wife, the very ' little Miss Bruce '
of the past, to share his manse and his life.
Of course I know I am not your equal ; you
VOL. III. P

are stooping to me  you will have to resign
many things, put up with many things. You
will have to make allowance for my ways.'

She interrupted him quickly, with eyes
which began to stream. ' Wat Baillie, you are
the best man I ever knew. The life you have
led is as much higher than what my life has
been as the sky is above the earth. That is a
good reason for thinking I ought to refuse you,
though I do not know where to turn, or what
to do. If you had been like any other man,
you would have let me feel that I had not only
put myself in your power, but left you without
any other choice save to make me this offer 
that is another good reason for me to decline
it. Oh, I wish you would suffer me to go, and
not care about me. If you only guessed how
ashamed I am,' covering her face with her
hands.

Ashamed ! ' he cried, drawing them down,
of what I am so proud  that you could still

trust me, though, Hke the lout I am, I affronted
you once  I was so left to myself as to take by
a rude liberty, what has become mine by a
dear right.'

p 2

CHAPTER XIII.

THE END OF THE HONEYMOON.

It all happened very much as Wat had proposed.
The Rattrays, a rather high-bred, benevolent
old couple, who had already been surprised,
sorry, and, in spite of themselves, diverted
at the scrape in which their old pupil
and protege had found himself, were again
electrified by the consequences. * Wonders
will never cease,' cried the lively old lady. ' To
think of a minister of the respectable old Kirk,
that great heavy, steady Wat Baillie, whom
you used to call your right hand, running away
with a lassie, or rather of a lassie of our class
running away with him ! I cannot help thinking

she must have a fine spirit, for he would
be hard to drag along by her apron-string.'

The pair did not refuse to lend Wat the
countenance he craved, in the most decorous
mode he could devise, for extricating Bruce
and himself from their difficulty. The Eattrays
were all the more won over by their aristocratic
bias, which laid it upon them, as a positive
obligation, to shelter Bruce Kirkpatrick from
the punishment of her imprudence. The same
proclivity inclined them to be charmed with
her, as if she were the fittest wife for a sober-minded
minister, the mistress of a manse whose
management of its narrow means would not
ruin her husband, which Wat's mother had been
in the habit of assuming was the ordinary work
of wives.

Fortunately for all concerned, Bruce Kirkpatrick
had run away from her brother and
sisters, and not from her father and mother,
else the Church might have had something to

say to Wat's share in the escapade. But the
distinction pointed out made a great difference
in the eyes of even the strictest formulate of
censures. To quote Mrs. Baillie again, there
was no scripture command to honour  sin the
sense of to obey  a brother or a sister. When
the subsequent marriage ceremony was performed
with all the proper rites, including the
crying ' three times in the kirk, and the
pronouncing of the blessing of the Kirk by the
voice of an ordained minister, not John Knox
in the flesh could have found any flaw in the
performance.

One thing which he could have hardly
hoped for, was a great relief for the present to
Wat. The two elder Misses Kirkpatrick-not
to say Claud  were so moved by the extent
of Bruce 's wrong-doing  her frantic revolt,
withdrawal in future from their authority and
establishment under their very eyes in the
manse of Birkenbarns as the wife of the parish

minister Muckle Wat Baillie, son of the old
grieve at Eintoul, that the whole family quitted
Birkencraig, as they had not done for a period of
years, and repaired to a popular watering-place,
there to spend the spring and early summer, on
the plea of the benefit to Claude's health.
What was to be acted on their return  whether
they were to cut young Mrs. Baillie dead, and
the manse and one of the principal heritor'
houses were to present to the parish the unedifying
spectacle of permanent family strife and
estrangement, or whether a hollow peace and reconciliation
were to be patched up between the
ladies, remained among the dubious questions
of the future In the meanwhile, there was no
doubt Wat's marriage brought about his partial
restoration to favour in the eyes of the disaffected
members of the community. Certainly there
were many still hostile and disposed to talk
coldly of bad examples. But, on the other hand,
there was enough romance left in the world, both

among high and low, for other recusants  above
all the comparatively neutral  to be softened
by the agreeable sight of the winsome, bonnie
young brides. She appeared constantly in the
minister's pew in church, and frequently by
Wat Baillie's side in his walks on his ' ministerial
visitations,' with or without poor Eachie,
who had dwindled away into an inferior
satellite.

Not only the elders  including the Laird
of Murniepae  who had come and conferred
with Wat on his indiscretion, now to a man
congratulated him on his marriage, and
an-lived with their wives and daughters to
call for young Mrs. Baillie ; the fancies of the
old and the young of all ranks were caught by
Bruce as they had never been before. The
old among the orthodox, evangelical poor were
still disposed to deny her the supernatural
gift of grace, they were even tempted to
distrust their minister in this indispensable

quality  the absence of which would be a sore
lack in his office, while they magnanimously
hoped the defect would be supplied in time.
Till then, these competent judges were content
to be benefited and cheered by the benefactions
and notice so much more liberal and
kindly than in old Mrs. Baillie's day, of the
couple whom the Scotch pharisees held as
suspects  suspected of latitudinarianism, erastianism,
and any number of isms.

The young of the same class made no bones
of bestowing their favour, but enjoyed to the
full the bright smile, sweet voice, and easy merry
words of the pretty young lady, once Miss Bruce
Kirkpatrick. They had always known her, and
they at least had not disliked her, but she
came more among them, and was nearer to
them now. She helped the minister to distribute
the school prizes, and she assisted Miss
Eachie to marshal and entertain the scholars,
big and small, at their summer feast.

People took a fond pride in remembering
later  and the more indulgent of the old wives
were fain to ascribe the fact in the end to the
first sprouts of that free grace they were so
wary in according to Bruce  how she tried to
suit herself to her altered circumstances, how
the young wife strove to render herself acceptable
to her husband's parishioners, so as to
prove herself a help and no longer a hindrance
to him. She was so frank and unaffected in
her gentle breeding, that though she had not
hitherto been popular in her own rank, it was
not hard for her to make a good impression under
fresh auspices on both old and young, while the
minister was enchanted by the golden opinions
she was winning. Still, she had her prejudices,
and she must have stifled them to sit down so
readily in inferior places and at inferior boards,
to walk where she was wont to ride or drive,
as a rule to drink tea with farmers and their
wives or the household circles in neighbouring

manses, instead of dining with lords and
lairds and their ladies, attending christening
and comings of age in high places, and dancing
at county balls. She must have put force on
herself to be satisfied with the homely economy
at the manse  sin which she had the sense tolet
Eachie initiate her, and to go with Wat to
see his mother and father in their new character
as her mother and father  to whom she
owed duty and service, which were not made
less difficult by Mrs. Baillie's grudging sour
manner of accepting them, so far removed
from Mary and Lily Kirkpatrick's good-natured
graciousness. Every body in the parish admitted
her marriage must have made a great change
to young Mrs. Bailie, and most people added
she accommodated herself to it bravely and
sweetly  a proof of that good and honest heart
which had lain neglected and choked by a false
over-growth in Bruce Kirkpatrick. For one
must remember that her worthy wifely efforts

had not the impelling motive and immediate
reward of a passionate attachment to Wat
Baillie. Love had only been dawning between
the couple, and the coy indications of the
coming day will not, under whatever press of
circumstances, pass in a bound to the strong
light and heat of noon. As it was, Wat had
gone considerably in advance of Bruce in this,
as in most other schools. Her sentiments for
him when she married him. were largely made
up of genuine reverence, hearty contrition and
deep unfeigned gratitude  no bad soil for love,
but not love any more than the nourishment is
the growth it produces.

Even Eachie had to allow Bruce did her
best, did well in the middle of the devoted
sister's sharp struggle at giving up the first
place in Wat's regard, with the additional
jealous tortured sense that what she had cherished
as the highest earthly good was lightly
held by the woman who had gained the prize

without seeking for it, and witlioiit any true
sense of its real value. Yet what Rachel
reluctantly owned then, she would have
vouched for with her heart's blood, before she
Alas many months older.

It might have been partly from the absence
of passionate love for her husband, as well as
from the magnanimity of the nobler sort of
pride, that Bruce insisted the brother and sister
should continue together the studies in which
they took such delight, but in which she could
not join.

At first she had said with cheerful humility,
she would be their pupil ; but with all the will
in the world on Wat's side, it was found this
could not be, since there were not the elements
of a student or scholar in any Kirkpatrick.
Bruce was the readiest to own and submit to
the truth. She declared herself content to be
left behind, like many a wife in this region,
and to pursue her own devices as she had been

accustomed to do, during the time Wat and
Eachie spent over their books. It did not follow
from this that poor Bruce, who was very human
and fallible, failed to feel a little hurt and resentful
when her companions took her at her word,
in complete unconsciousness, so far as Wat was
concerned, and only ruefully on Eachie's side,
when she recollected herself and bethought her
of whose rights she was invading, and what was
most becoming in these later days.

But in the very exuberance of Dissatisfaction
in his honeymoon  for he was an
easily pleased, unassuming, exacting fellow,
who had been accustomed to hard lines under
his mother  he turned sometimes in the joy
of this heart, with renewed zest, to the chief of
his old earthly sources of happiness and became
engrossed with it for the moment  almost to
the exclusion of later and still more heartfelt
interests. How should he guess that Bruce
felt lonely or sad when she had only been left

to herself for half an evening, and when she was
so much mistress of the situation as to refrain from
giving the slightest sign of weariness or chagrin
so far from that, she would be at her gayest,
almost startlingly gay afterwards ? And Twas
too sincere and slow in some respects to
draw any save the most agreeable inference
from the incessant talk, banter, and laughter.

But Bruce gradually vacated the study
more and more to the brother and sister. She
was wont to take refuge from this and the other
tolerably rough rubs of lier early married life,
in the manse-garden, or on the Craig. She
would climb the last surreptitiously in order to
wander aimlessly among the blackberries and
heather, or to sit and gaze wistfully at the
chimneys of Birkencraig bereft of its owners.

Bruce had always been fond of the manse-garden,
so different from the formal beds at
Birkencraig and destitute of a despot of a
gardener. For Lowrie did as she bade him,

for a wonder, without venturing to interfere
with her will and pleasure. She began to
grow an enthusiastic gardener in her own
person, displaying the same ability in the floral
art that she had shown in the profession of
nursing. She projected a half-natural terrace
grown over with rock plants, and a new walk
shaded by tufts of bracken imported from the
Craig and intermingled with laurel bushes, long
kept up in memory of those days. She first
induced Wat to lend her his strong back and
lengthy arms, telling him that she would
improve his hands, and then appointed him her
assistant and worked him hard under her orders
to the simple-minded giant's high gratification.
She was not like Charlotte Lucas in ' Pride and
Prejudice,' who encouraged her clerical
husband in gardening ostensibly for the sake of
his health, really to get rid, for hours everyday,
of the heavy drag of his society. The
minister and his wife at Birkenbarns gardened

a great deal together, like Adam and Eve, that
summer, and about the happiest of the swiftly
passing hours were thus spent.

Among the lost privileges of her old
state which Bruce regretted was her riding.
She had been a good rider as well as walker,
but she had not conceived, till riding failed
her, how she would crave a variety of
exercise, and how unmixed walking would
become tame and tiresome. One afternoon
Bruce had gone with Eachie to pay a visit to
the farm-house of Mr. Dunlop, Wat's Elder, at
the Bow of Birkenbarns, where Wat was to
follow his wife and sister. Then Bruce could
not resist the temptation to an impromptu ride
suggested to her in the course of some remarks
made to her by her host, who asked her advice
on a question troubling him. He and she had
fraternised from the first, when Mrs. Wat had
gladly hailed him as an old acquaintance of the
hunting-field. He told her he had been em-vol.

III. Q

powered by the widow of his late laird to buy
a riding horse at the June market, for the use
of her youngest daughter. He had made the
purchase but had not sent the beast home, ashe
was a good deal exercised in his mind by
doubts of the animal's perfect steadiness and
docility in the hands of a lady  an inexperienced
rider.

Oh, will you let me try her, Mr. Dunlop ? '
begged Bruce with eager coaxing. ' You know
I am not a bad rider, and I think I could tell
what would suit Alice Crawford. Never mind
a habit, let me go as I am and have a good
gallop round the Lea,' referring to the great
pasture meadow in which the house stood.
Do let me go before tea, I shall eat twice as
many of Mrs. Dunlop's scones if you will only
give your consent.'

But what would the minister say,' remonstrated
the smiling, and on this occasion
not contentious, but only too-yielding guardian

of the mare, ' supposing you should get a fling
and break your bones? '

Suppose nothing so insulting to my
horsemanship  you who have seen me follow
the hounds with  with Mr. Kirkpatrick for the
better part of the day, when the fences were
not too stiff, or the ditches too wide. Of course
I could not pretend to such a leap as carried
you in, first of the field, at the King's Crook 
don't you remember, Mr. Dunlop ? '

Didn't he remember? and wasn't he
flattered by his minister's wife  as fine a young
lady as ever lived, recalling  what none there
save he and she could recall  to his glory as a
sportsman, though that was but a worldly vanity
when men looked at it in a serious light. He
was prepared to do her almost any favour, however,
after that speech.

Kachie objected, but though Bruce, as everybody
agreed, behaved well to Eachie, the
young matron did not see herself called upon
Q 2

to submit to her unmarried sister-in-law's
control in what was not Eachie's province, in
what, for that matter, she was quite unversed,
since Eachie Bailie was of a timid disposition,
in contrast to her size, and had not mounted a
horse  not even a cart-horse, in her whole life.
Besides, poor Eachie, whose learning did
not prevent her from being unrefined, had unconsciously
provoked the young lady, her sister-in-law,
several times that afternoon, by the unvarnished
expression of a country dressmaker's
opinions, and the unhesitating practice of her
homely habits. Bruce was neither hypercritical
nor hypocritical, but she was still sufficiently
small to allow herself to be offended by trifles
lio-ht as air. She had asked herself what
call had Eachie to descant like a professional
on the ' sit,' and the ' hang,' the width of the
'sey,' and the length of the 'tail' of Mrs.
Dunlop's children's dresses ; or to put pins in
her mouth ; or to sleek her hair in a fashion

with which Bruce was totally unacquainted?
Young Mrs. Baillie had grown irritable and restive
under those pin-pricks, though she had possessed
the good taste and good feeling to keep
her fastidiousness and fault-finding spirit to herself.
All the same, though the two causes seem
to have no necessary connection, the grains of
offence she had received did not dispose her
the more to defer to Eachie's remonstrance
against riding a strange horse unattended. For
Bruce had scouted Mr. Dunlop's halting proposal,
that he should take out his horse and
accompany her. ' Certainly not, Mr. Dunlop ;
to give all that trouble for a gallop round the
Lea, when I have followed the hounds for the
better part of a day,' she cried in chagrin. And
somehow he thought it would look foolish, she
might take it as presumption in him, though
she was only the minister's wife now, and was
to drink tea with his good wife and himself,
the minister and Eachie Baillie, the old Eintoul

dress-maker, on something like terms of
equality, which might very well be, when he
was one of the leading Elders of the parish. Still
he could not altogether forget that on that day
at the King's Crook, to which she had alluded,
she had been closely attended for the entire
morning  there had been some mistaken word
of her marriage with the lad in consequence 
by the son of the master of the fox hounds, the
finest sprig of quality in the field. There was
no reasonable apology for the farmer's escort.
It was an altogether different matter for a good
rider like Mrs. Wat Baillie, and a school-girl
like Miss Alice Crawford, to mount the mare,
while Mrs. Baillie's opinion was worth having,
and she could not give it till she tried the
animal

The whole family party accompanied Bruce
to the farm-house door, after she had first tied
on her hat to shade her eyes, and drawn on
her gauntlets lest the creature should tug at

the bridle. She looked with sparkling eyes at
the handsome bay, and was more covetous than
critical.

Oh, she is bonnie ! ' she cried enthusiastically
; then proceeded to praise with effusion
the horse's size, shape, coat, head, and tail.
Finally Bruce confidently announced that she
would find no difficulty in riding the mare,
though it was not certain that she would do for
Alice Crawford.

The rider was suffered to start alone,
looking blythe and very bonnie herself, and
turning to smile and nod as she set off with no
further demonstration from the high-spirited
horse than a little toss of the head and quiver
3f the shoulders.

There was no question the mare had found
her mistress, and Mrs. Baillie could manage her
though the horse had increased her speed, and
was going like the wind when she passed Wat
Baillie walking leisurely along the path though

the pasture. But the horsewoman was flying
along at her ease, full of restrained power,
quite capable of enjoying the joke of the blank
surprise of her husband.

There was a comer to be taken, with a
projecting elder-bush round which Bruce
turned sharply. The farmer who had been
watching the vanishing rider, thought of the
manner in which both root and branches of
this bush extended round the comer, with the
first twinge of anxiety, when he saw how near
she had ridden on this side. He walked
quickly in the direction of the bush, but did
not overtake Wat Baillie, who had turned, and,
somewhat to the amusement of the more distant
group at the door, began to hurry after his
wife. It was therefore Wat who first passed
the screen which the elder formed, and saw
right in front of him a woman's figure in a
heap on the grass, and still farther in advance
a riderless horse galloping more wildly than ever,

In the few seconds it took him to reach
her, he had begun to thank God she had fallen
among the meadow grass, and was probably
not much hurt, though she lay so still. But
when he came nearer to her he saw another
thing that made his blood run cold again. It
was the long sharp spur of the root  like one
of the whale's jaw-bones which an eccentric
fancy had placed, in the room of pillars, at the
entrance into this very field. The treacherous
root, half-hidden in the grass, had escaped the
eyes of both horse and woman. It was the
root which had caught the mare's hoofs when
she was at the top of her speed, and without
bringing her down, caused her to stumble
suddenly and heavily. It was across the root
that Bruce lay.

But God was merciful. As there was no
outward injury, beyond her stunned condition,
to be seen at a glance, there might still be
no grievous harm done.

There was plenty of assistance, and no
lack of sympathy at hand. Mr. Dunlop
kept telling his minister, as they carried the
lifeless-looking figure back to the house, to
keep up his heart ; Mrs. Dunlop would have a
bed prepared, and restoratives ready before
they could reach the house ; he or one of his
men would ride and fetch the doctor in less
than half-an-hour ; the speaker had often seen
worse accidents in the hunting-field with no
mischief to speak of.

But Wat could not resist the impression 
from the very fervour of the well-meant,
kindly-uttered assurances  that Mr. Dunlop
held there was great necessity for keeping up
their hearts from the moment he saw where
and how the accident had happened.

The women undressed Bruce and laid heron
the bed before she moved or spoke, and even
then, while the minister's heart leapt up at the
light of her eyes and the sound of her voice

again, she was half stupefied still. She did not
know where she was, who was beside her, or
what had happened to her, though she moaned
by fits and starts as if she were in pain and
made little convulsive movements, as if she
would be restless were she able to throw her 
self about.

But full intelligence came back before the
doctor arrived, and then Bruce comforted some
of her listeners by saying she was not in pain 
at least not in much  only very uncomfortable
she must admit, in spite of all they had been so
good as to do for her, and oddly tired and helpless,
she supposed she was sick from the blow or
the shock. ' It was not Mr. Dunlop's or Eachie's
fault,' were the first words which were coherently
though faintly spoken to Wat. ' She was
against my going, and I must say I distrusted her
eyes  the mare's eyes  but I longed so for one
good gallop again, and I thought just round the
Lea there could be no great risk. Wat, bid

them look after the mare  she is a fine horse,
though she will never do for Alice Crawford.
But she was not vicious, you know, just keen
to be off, and she could not help herself, with
that horrid tree-root. Tell Mr. Dunlop he
ought to have it chopped off, or sawn asunder,
or something  better the bush be spoilt than
people hurt ; why, somebody might be killed
there one day.'

Hush, my dear, hush ! ' implored Wat, with
a sword going through his heart ; ' you must not
speak so much till the doctor sees you.'

The doctor came at last and examined his
patient carefully without eliciting a louder
moan from her. She was able to make a joke
to him on their old ambulance class, and he
answered it with another joke ; but his face fell
the moment he left the room, and Wat's heart,
which had risen like a feather within the last
three or four minutes, fell again with the density
of lead.

Mr. Baillie, I am sorry to say your wife has
met with a bad  a very bad accident,' said the
medical man, so accustomed to make painful
communications that he could deliver this
with composure ; yet he was so far from destitute
of fellow-feeling that the matter-of-fact
brevity of the sentence was simply the result of
his own instinctive recoil from the distress he
was causing and the further misery he knew to
be in store for his listener.

Is she in danger ? ' inquired Wat in the
same quiet manner, though surges were ringing
in his ears, and his own voice sounded to him
like that of another person speaking at an
immeasurable distance.

'Poor chap,' the doctor was saying* to himself,
' he will have need of the consolations he
accustomed to administer to other people 
before all is ended. That fine girl, so clever at
picking up the hints of my trade, and she ran
away with him not four months since ! ' He

said aloud, ' I am greatly afraid she is in danger ;
I should recommend you to have further
advice without delay.'

Telegrams were written and farther
messengers sent here and there, regardless of
trouble or cost, while Bruce lay and dosed
with only that involuntary moaning and twitching
to disturb her sleep. She woke up to smile
a little at being put at once on invalid's fare.
I was to have eaten so many of Mrs. Dunlop's
scones  don't you remember? and now I am
only to have slops  it is very hard.' To the uninitiated
it looked as if she were not doing badly
at all, but for what she herself considered her
inexplicable uselessness and weakness, while the
last became less prominent after fever began
to rise and to furnish her with artificial
strength.

Wat had. telegraphed to Dr. Eattray, who
had helped him before at another pinch, to
send through the foremost medical man in the

capital to pronounce Bruce's doom as it proved.
For he had no more comfortable words for
Wat than, ' I regret I can say no more than
that while there is life there is hope. The case
is as bad as it can well be.' Then he added
some technical words as to the fatal injury to
the spine which would have been incomprehensible
to Wat, with all his learning, at the
best of times, and was now part of an unknown
tongue.

Cease ye from man whose breath is in his
nostrils.' Put not your trust in him though he
were a prince ruling with a rod of iron, far less
a simple physician, the teacher of a science
which  as all honest men admit  the long
centuries have not been able to bring beyond
the babble of infancy.

But surely there is help still in the Maker
of the universe, with whom are the issues of
life and death. He was Wat's God and could
not destroy the happiness He had given. He

could not take from His servant, by a stroke
the treasure he had hardly grasped. Alas !
Wat knew better. He was not a minister for
nothing. One of his principal duties was to
visit the sick and bereaved, to break, with holy
words of faith and submission, the tidings of
many an unlooked-for disaster, to incredulous
and wailing sufferers. What was he that he
should count himself exempted from the common
lot, even from an exceptionally hard lot ? Had
not Wat often taught the strange sad mystery
that whom the Lord loved He chastened, and
scourged every son whom He received? It
belonged to the yoke which in another sense
was easy, that Wat should pass over the red-hot
ploughshares and the sharp goads and
harrows, if possible without a murmur. It
was only fit that he too, though at an immeasurable
distance from his Master, should
be made perfect through suffering, that he
might be alle to help those who suffered. The

spiritual physician was called on to heal himself
of his deadly wound.

Wat made one last despairing effort at
resistance. The doctors could not mean that
by their long faces and gibberish. They only
meant, and it was bad enough, that his Bruce,
who was so young, lithe, and active, in whose
light foot and perfect health he had rejoiced,
was thenceforth to be a sickly cripple, nevermore
to move without help from bed or couch.
But he would give himself up to caring for and
solacing her, since God had made her his first
charge. He would surround her with everything
which the heart of woman in her melancholy
position could desire, till she should almost
cease to regret her deprivations. But what was
the meaning of that lifelessness creeping on and
on, of the stillness of the once animated body
which no feverish unrest could affect ? He could
not deceive himself for a minute ; and must he
also undeceive Bruce, who, because of a little

VOL. III. R

temporary ease, and the fever which while
consulting her vital force was lending her a
false and fleeting life, talked cheerfully at
intervals of her removal home and her subsequent
recovery ? It was difficult for the most
despondent and the best informed as to her
state, not to believe the person most concerned
in it. And who was to tell what might be an
untruth after all, to one from whom God had
withheld the knowledge  if it were knowledge
 of the great change, near at hand, with
which she had so much to do ? '

But when Wat returned to his wife, after
his interview with the two doctors, the smile
lead faded from her lips, and he saw that her
eyes were startled and grave with anxiety and
earnestness. ' Shall I not go back to the
manse, Wat ? ' she asked faintly.

They say not, Brucie,' he answered in a
choked voice, unconsciously using the tender
child's name, which her people had given her

long ago. ' But they may be wrong, and if
not, you are going to a better place, where I
hope and pray to follow you soon.'

She was dumb under the awfulness of the
information, only her great solemn eyes broke
his heart by the look which seemed to say,
Oh, Wat Baillie, can you do no more than
they can for me ? '

Then Wat girded himself to do what was
left to him  his best while his heart was like
stone in his breast. If it could serve her, he
must not fail her. He began to read and speak
the words he had often read and spoken to other
voyagers on the verge of the shoreless sea.
They had sounded living words before, though
they were like dead words to him to-day, and
he could hardly conceive it was himself who
was reading and praying, it was so much like a
perfect stranger rehearsing once again a tale
that had been often told. It was the most
cruel grief, at the core of his grief  too sharp

K 2

to be borne long, while faith in Heaven  the
last boon of the wretched lived on. Had his
Master forsaken him in the hour of his bitter
anguish, and left him to sink in the deep
waters ? or had he no Master ? Was there no
Heaven, only a material perishing world,
while the life that was dearer to him than his
own was ebbing swiftly away before his eyes,
without any power on his part to retain it ?

No, no. The blue heavens continued above
the hapless couple, though clouds and darkness
had come between. The everlasting arm was
not shortened, the great right hand of Almighty
truthfulness and mercy was not, could not be,
closed. It was but the crushed, reeling creature,
who even while he clung half mechanically
to the last trusted stay, had ceased, not
unnaturally, to feel the strong, gentle clasp.
The ever-open ear of the Heavenly Father and
Divine Elder Brother was not stopped to
human groaning, though Wat Baillie had become

deaf and blind, like a dead man before
his time, in the sore trouble of his life.

The words which were half frozen on his
lips, must have melted as they fell, and dropped
softly like dew on the thirsting heart. There
was nothing save peace in her face, or in anything
she said afterwards, so long as she lingered.
She muttered many a foolish wandering
word in her growing weakness, but not one
that he or she need have wished unspoken.

Among adders ! Did Muckle Wat save
me from them, or did he bring me among them,
and then smile and bid me not mind their
hissing tongues, for he would keep them from
doing me any harm, though he should take all
the poison into his own veins ?

Only four months since our wedding-day at
the dear old Eattrays, who have not visited us
yet, and never will now. Only four months
married  not long to get used to each other,
and become all the world to each other ; but I

think we were growing fonder and fonder of each
other every day. I called him " Mattie " the
other morning, and reminded him that was what
we called the ganders, and he laughed and said
he did not care, any name from my lips was
sweet  the silly old man ! I was looking at
him the night before last  no, the night before
I met my death, after he had fallen asleep on
the sofa, and I was proud of his big brow, and
wondered I had ever seen anything wrong with
his ears, or thought that other ears would have
become him better. I hoped if I ever bore him
a son, that the boy would be the image of his
father. I kissed him without his knowing it.
I meant to tell Wat I had taken back the
stupid kiss he snatched from me long ago,
which people made such a work about, so that
it cost him dear.

We might have been a marvel of married
love, but I daresay it is better as it is, for
the Kirkpatricks are not made for good

Islands and wives. Self-indulgence is it?
or pride under the garb of humility ? or want
of grace, as old Nanny at the toll used to
say ? I shall get it at last where I am going ;
there is sufficient for all wants yonder, since
One is at the door who never grudged or
stinted what He gave, and the minister says
He will let me in, and put what I lack into my
bosom good measure, pressed down and running
over.

I might not always have done my best here,
I might have failed after all. I pined sometimes
for wretched little things I should not
have thought I would have wasted a sigh upon 
silk gowns and lace handkerchiefs, a plate of
Mattie's hare soup, or claret jelly handed to me
by Nicol, some of the biscuits Lily feeds her
dogs with , I believe I even missed afternoon
visits and the excitement of a drive to Sauces
Oh ! What a weak wicked goose. I
was angry with Eachie without a cause, and

I craved the ride for which I am paying with
my life. I might have gone on getting angry
and craving, paying higher and higher prices,
and not discharging the debt alone, with
innocent noble Wat Baillie made accountable
for it. But now he has put down what was
owing to the uttermost farming. And they
will see how he has suffered, and say he has
been punished enough.

Wat and Eachie will go back to their books
and be taken up with them again, but they will
not forget me. I am better off than the poor
woman in the queer song Wat read to me once.
How did it go ?

It killed her, the brute !
On the stump of the willow tree ;
And only the baby wept
For poor Lorraine Lore.

Oh ! there will be a great many people 
far more than I deserve  sorry for me, Almost
of all and Claud next.' She startled her
husband by looking up and speaking distinctly

to him. ' Send for Mary and Lily and Claud, all
of them, to come at once ; ' then she replied to
the pained perplexity in his eyes. 'Do you
think Claud will not come? Do you think
he did not care for me ? Oh ! it is little
you know though you are wise  but not with
worldly wisdom, Wat Bailie. Why, Claud liked
me better than anybody, save himself. He
was prouder of me than of anything, unless perhaps
his horses, which were never very good
ones, poor boy, he was so taken in by Lord
Sandy and the dealers God forgive them.
Claud and I were as much together as you and
Kachie when we were young ; we did not read
books, of course, but we sought birds' nests and
harried them too, sometimes, I am sorry to say,
and walked on stilts and put on false faces and
rode  what rides we had together ! Well, I did
not hope to have Claud at the manse I must
say, but I looked for the two others  some
day. I was going to show off as a housekeeper to

Mary, and to cram Lily's hands with our roses
and lilies, and give her the best of the little
white bantam's brood. It is all to be different,
but no doubt its for the best, and I shall have
Claud  you will see.' He saw  not she. The
eyes of her body and her mind too were dark
to all the sights of this life, though she was
still alive, and the soul had not quitted its
fair fragile tenement, when those who were
summoned without ceremony and apology,
for a last meeting in this world, with Claud
among them, could not find it in their
hearts to disobey that summons. Mary and
Lily were weeping their soft eyes out, but
Claud, as he bent with a haggard dry face,
over his sister, only gave one great tearless
sob.

Mr. Baillie, I would give all the horses I
have in my stables, ay, ten times over, that
I had never let yon brute among them  that I
had never suffered the poor young lady to

mount her,' Mr. Dunlop protested sorrowfully
to Wat on the evening of the day of Bruce's
death.

You could not help it,' said the widower
in a dull, measured tone ; 'she did not blame
even the brute of a horse. She wished the
mare to be valued and cared for.'

Well, sir, if you do not wite a man who
would have gone a long road before he would
willingly have hurt you or her to a hair of
your heads, prove your goodness by not going
back to the manse your lea' lone as I see you
are preparing to do. Wait till Eachie your
sister can accompany you. I am no great
company for a scholar, but let me or any other
of your Elders you like to pick out stay with
you in your trial. We'll be proud to serve
you. Murnipae was at College, and though he
has no great gumption in a market, he may be
another man among books.'

'Thanks, thanks, Dunlop, I'll not forget

your kindness, but believe me I'm better left
alone,' the minister assured his friend wearily.

They will see how you have suffered, and
say you have been punished enough, just as
she anticipated,' he told himself. ' But what
can they do ? They cannot bring her back.
What do I care for them, except in common
gratitude. Oh ! Bruce, Bruce that was mine,
that is mine through eternity, but I cannot hear
you or see you, my daring, that was growing
fonder and fonder of me. Little Miss Bruce,
whom I had learned to love as I love my life,
that I only clasped in my arms for four short
summer months before the Master called
her.'

There was a great gathering in Birkenbarns
Kirk on the Sunday after Bruce had been
buried in the minister's ground in the churchyard,
to hear her funeral sermon. It was not
preached by her husband. He sat conspicuous

in his mourning among the hearers, as he had
sat but yesterday, as it seemed, on his proclamation
day, when the banns between him and
Bruce Kirkpatrick were published to an interested
world, arousing the congregation to one
broad smile, and the embarrassed bridegroom
to a hot blush. The preacher was a sympathising
brother minister in the Presbytery,
himself a widower, who had lost, not long
before, the companion of many years, the
mother of his children. He spoke with feeling
therefore, though he dealt in generalities, and
was as often as not referring mentally to his
own case, which was not quite parallel to
that of his bereft brother.

But it was rather the occasion and the
infectious sentiment of the crowd that came to
commemorate the event, than any appropriate
address or eloquent oration which was calculated
to stir the people. There had not been such
a gathering in the kirk since the day of Subordination

 many present thought of it  he
among the rest. He recalled the bright young
girl, the laird of Birkencraig's sister, who had
given him her hand at the door with the cordial
greeting, ' I am glad to see you, Mr. Baillie ; I
am glad to have been here to-day.' He thought
of her when she surprised him, alone in the
church, and in her girlish glee kept him ina
state of mingled exasperation, alarm, and
amusement, while she shook the keys in his
face, through the window, from the ill-balanced
tombstone and threatened to ring the kirk-bell
and summon the parish to find him locked in,
before he could stop her. He remembered the
dark rainy night when the hurried rap had
come to the door of the manse a bow-shot off,
and he had opened it to discover her on the
threshold come to him as her refuge and
deliverer. And it was his destiny to sit there
and know the sweet body to be lying in the
dust till the morning of the resurrection, while

he conned his Master's lesson of learning to
say, ' Thy will be done.'

Not only were the Misses Kirkpatrick, in the
crape and white cambric which they wore in
keeping with the minister, in the family pew,
Claud sat wan and worn in his late father's
seat. Every once familiar face was at its old
post, and was not likely to vanish with the day,
for there was some pricking of conscience and
an inclination to allay the little smart by a
handsome atonement. The fulfilment of the
penalty on Wat Baillie's part was amply
acknowledged, and his last popularity was
likely to be greater and more enduring than his
first.

It would be a satisfaction to say, with the
assurance which proofs give, that Bruce's death
became new life to her brother. But so far as his
career here might have witnessed to his amendment,
the opportunity was not granted to him.
In the winter of the same year a bad cold,

ending in acute inflammation, cut short his few
and evil days. At least the brother and sister
whose love had worked each other, not weal
but woe, in their deaths were not long
divided.

Mary and Lily showed themselves all but
inconsolable for this last loss. They proceeded
to canonise their boy on the spot, and to speak
of him for ever afterwards as one would refer
to a departed saint.

To them Wat became as a son, and it was
a sign how they got, by degrees, to appreciate
and depend upon him in another relation from
that which had originally existed between
them, when towards the close of their lives the
ladies would voluntarily and publicly admit
the family connection which his marriage with
Bruce had established, by speaking of him
sometimes to their old friends as ' our brother
the minister of Birkenbarns.'

Wat and Eachie live on together in the
manse, and continue fast friends. They both
grow more learned, and he especially more
devout and charitable, so that he is frankly recognised
to be the best, as well as the most gifted,
minister in the Presbytery. He cares almost
as little as she does for general company,
though he is not put out by it. When they
are together or among intimate friends, they
are more rustic than ever. But the little bits
of china which Bruce had ferreted out from
odd holes and corners, the quaint spinning
wheel which she had made Wat buy at the
sale of a pauper's few old ' sticks of furniture,'
Bruce's pretty arrangements with her baskets
of flowers in the drawing-room and study, are
piously preserved and lovingly kept up like the
terrace and walk she designed in the garden
as traces of her brief tenancy of the manse, and
the love-dream of Wat Baillie's manhood.

VOL. III. s

And all that were not sent to Lily Kirkpatrick
of the brood of bantams are fed regularly by
the minister's own hand. They have the
chance of becoming patriarchal fowls.

