CHAPTER I.

THE BEAST.

The white glare of an Indian sun was
beginning to beat on the parade-ground at
!Rhilpoor. The English regiment, which had
been summoned for early drill, was detained
to witness a painful piece of discipline, which
the authorities trusted would prove a salutary
warning. A young soldier named Thwaite, a
fine, manly fellow in spite of his faults, had,
in the course of several years' service, risen to
the rank of sergeant. This desirable result
was the effect of energy, daring, an obliging
temper when he was not crossed, and a clever
aptitude for a soldier's duties, born of mother-wit,
sharpened by a rather better education

VOL. I. 1

than was usual in his grade. Unfortunately
his merits were counterbalanced by defects,
which not even the promotion he had attained,
calculated as it was to open his eyes to the side
on which his bread was buttered, had been able
to check. He was as rash and reckless as he
was dauntless and enduring. He had an uncertain
temper, spoilt by what' was understood
to have been a hard youth. He was careless
of the company he kept, and careless of the
excesses into which he fell in bad company.
He had an elder sister, married to a cousin
of the same name in the troop, but in spite 
of her efforts, and notwithstanding the staid
example of her husband, who was a pattern
of prudence, though he had not the wit to rise
in the world, young Will Thwaite had been
going from bad to worse lately, and had indulged
in one fit of dissipation after another.
They were beyond being hidden ; they could
not escape punishment ; and both offence and
punishment were totally incompatible with his
position as a noncommissioned officer.

His best friends had grown weary of pleading
for grace, which was so often abused. A
court-martial could only come to one conclusion,
especially as the Colonel of the regiment

was somewhat of a martinet, and had never
entertained any great favour for Will. The
commanding officer resolved the sergeant
should be made an example of.

It was in anticipation of the spectacle that
a certain solemn stir went through the mechanically
controlled body, drawn out in strict
order. The culprit was brought forth to confront
the Colonel, who proceeded to see the
sentence carried into effect, without any
symptom of dislike to the duty. William
Thwaite was reduced to the ranks, and in sign
of the degradation the signal was given for
the usual official to remove, in the presence of
the man's comrades and subordinates, the
stripes on the arm of his jacket, which were
the token of his grade.

Till then Will Thwaite had stood like a
statue, though this face was sullen and lowering.
But the moment he felt the offensive
touch on his arm he sprang aside, and before
anyone could anticipate the action, tore the
stripes from his coat by one wrench, and flung
them right in the face of the Colonel, with a
savage shout :

Take that from a better man than yourself!'


12

Blank consternation was the first result of
the lawless defiance. The deed was such a
gross breach of military discipline, such an
unseemly violation of authority, that the poor
Colonel gasped, and could hardly believe his
senses, while the junior officers and soldiers
gaped in harmony with their senior's gasp ;
and for an instant every energy was paralyzed.

Thwaite did not take any advantage of the
second's pause to attempt a flight, which would
have been as mad as what had gone before it.
He stood at ease with the angry grin still on
his face, till the whole company recovered
themselves. He was put under arrest a
second time, without offering any resistance,,
and marched back to durance, while the dismissed
soldiers formed into groups and discussed
the event of the day, filling the barrack-yard
with subdued commotion.

The orator who spoke beneath his breath
with greatest horror of the outrage which had
been committed, and wagged his head with
most reprobation and foreboding, was Laurie
Thwaite, Will's cousin and brother-in-law.
It was not Lawrie who, as might have been
expected, carried to his poor wife, said to he
devoted to her brother, the news of his fresh.

unpardonable outbreak, and the imminent
danger in which he stood of something to
beoin with still worse than being; drummed
out of the regiment. A gabbling straggler
sought out Jenny, and, without preparation,
titulo-ed to her the miserable incident.

Jenny wrung her hands, prematurely
withered and drawn by much washing to
the troop. Well might she lament and cower
in apprehension. The next court-martial
weighed out the terrible, but warrantable,
almost compulsory retribution, that Will
Thwaite should undergo a certain number
of lashes before being dismissed from the
service.

jenny's struggles.

Jenny Thwaite, a hard-featured, hard working
middle-aged woman, was more attached to
her brother than to her husband. Indeed, it
was alleged that she had married Lawrie
Thwaite principally that she might have a
chance of following Will to India and being
still near him. The reason for this perversion
of natural regard might exist in the fact
that while poor Will, smart as he was, had
sore need of such protection as she could
afford him, there was no question that Lawrie
Thwaite was quite capable of taking care of
himself In addition, Jenny had never borne
a child, which might have broken the old
allegiance, while Will had all along been like
her child, seeing that he was nearly fifteen
years her junior. She had looked after him
in these old hard days of his youth ; she

had toiled to procure for Mm an education
that might be more in keeping vith his future
than with his present fortunes ; she had
suffered the keen disappointment of seeing him
grow up wild and unsteady, until he forsook
the trade to which he had been apprenticed 
only stopping short of breaking his indentures
and leaving Jenny to pay the forfeit  and
enlisted into an infantry regiment under
marching orders for India. Then Jenny
consented to marry her cousin, who was in
the same regiment, while he stoutly denied
ever having decoyed \ill into the service.

Lawrie was more Jenny's contemporary
than Will's, and having been on the look-out
for a careful, manaoino- Tife, who mioht wash,
or do dressmaking, or perhaps keep the girls' -
school, and so greatly multiply his resources,
he had hovered about Jenny Thwaite with
matrimonial intentions for years.

Jenny had not been a weak woman so as to
remain blind to her boy's delinquencies ;
had rated and reproached him, and sometimes
was not on speaking terms with him for days ;
but it was all for his good. She loved him
faithfully through his worst scrapes, and was
secretly serving him, even while she was

submitting to be shunned by him ; nay, taking
the initiative in declining for a brief space
to hold intercourse with him. She was
the first to hail a sign of amendment ; she was
extravagantly proud of his promotion, insisting
that he would never stop till he got a
commission, which would be no more than
his due, though she must give up her washing,
and it would be as well that Lawrie had
served his time before that day came round.

The process of retrogression, even when it
reached its extremity, did not shake Jenny's
fidelity ; instead, it knit her so closely to her
brother that she ceased to protest against his
folly. Was it a time to be picking out holes
in his coat and pointing to his errors, when
the poor lad was in trouble and brought to so
sorry a pass that he needed every grain of love
to fight for him, cleave to him, and, if it were
yet possible, save him ?

Jenny would leave Lawrie to play the
cautious, cold-hearted, judicial part  to drawback
in case of incurring reflected blame, to
stand aloof, though with a decent show of
reluctance to join in the chorus of blame.
Neither did Jenny greatly censure her husband
for his conduct. It belonged to the poor

man's nature, as she had known when she
married him; and so long as he did not propose
to stop her in the most desperate exertions
she might undertake on her brother's behalf,
according to the original bargain between the
pair, honest Jenny could not see that she
had any title to sit upon her husband.

It might have been otherwise if Jenny's
conviction of her husband's fulfilling his
bargain had been shaken, or if she had
guessed that the great secret of her independence
lav in the meanness, rather than in the
phlegmatic magnanimity of the man she had
married, that he dreaded to offend her high
spirit mortally, lest he should lose the constant
harvest of her skilled work which found many
channels of outlet. Jenny never dreamt of a
separate purse, neither would the scapegrace
Will have consented to touch a farthing of her
wages, so long as he could work for his own
hand.

Jenny moved heaven and earth to deliver
her brother from the barbarous infliction of the
lash. She knew well that it would be the
death of his moral nature, the brand that
would enter his soul, even if his high-strung
physical system recovered from the shock it

Would receive. If it had been possible to
administer the punishment vicariously, without
Will's knowledge, she could have been
wrought up to bare her brave shoulders like
the Russian women to the knout, and like
another Godiva have faced ignominy, so that
the victim, who was her own flesh and blood,
her darling since her early girlhood, might be
permitted to go free. That resource was impossible.
All that Jenny could do, and she
had only a few days to do it in, was to wander
day and night, praying for a commutation
of the sentence. She appealed here and urged
there. She worked upon the chaplain to
draw up a petition for her. She vexed the
souls of men with her sometimes speechless,
but never-failing importunity, and the dry-tongued
anguish of her despair. She declined
to be repulsed, though she had been rather
a proud little woman in her better days. She
won over gentle, illogical, enthusiastic ladies
to espouse her cause, and to plague their
husbands never to mind precedents, not even
justice, but for dear mercy's sake to grant
Jenny Thwaite's prayer. She was the most
careful washer and clear-star cher, the best
darner, the nicest sewer of plain seam, the

most trustworthy nurse on a pinch they had
ever found. The whole men would fare the
worse, and every officer's household be in
straits, if they drove Jenny beside herself.
Why, the poor woman must go mad ; she
would die on their hands, and they would
have two ruined lives, two deaths at their
door. Was that what their stupid, stubborn
bondage to form wanted ? Colonel Bell was
not a bit the worse of the insult. He had
not so much as a scratch on the face ; and
was a poor fellow to be treated like a brute,
because, for once in his life, he had forgotten
himself, and behaved like a baby's Did not
Bertie or Charlie throw his toys at anyone
A'ho came in his way  at papa himself, when
the child was in a rage ? Don't speak to
the ladies of the demoralizing effect on the
other soldiers, the loss of prestige where the
rule of the officers was concerned, of mutiny,
and insurrection, and chaos come again. Xo
such horrors ensued in the nursery from
making as little as possible of Bertie or
Charlie's naughtiness, and leaving; the child to
come to himself.

Jenny wound up her vehement representations
by what sounded in the circumstances

like wild romances, of the Thwaites having
grand connections, with the likelihood that
the family would rise in the world some day,
when certainly the officers would be sorry for
the cruel, base punishment they had inflicted.
These unreasonable and passionate statements
on the whole did harm to the woman's suit.
Nobody had time to ask or give confirmatory
details of the improbable story, which appeared
to rest on no foundation, unless it were a
little vapouring of Will in his cups, and some
wary conceited bragging on the part of his
brother-in-law. It was either a credulous
delusion or a pure invention. It actually
impaired the respectability of the pleader.

In the meantime, Jenny had no encouragement
from those most interested in the
affair.

It is of no use, Jenny,' said her husband
with ostentatious dismalness, doing little to
second her in her frantic exertions.

'Never mind, Jen,' said poor Will, when
she visited him. ' It will soon be over,' turning
away to hide a shuddering recoil. ' Everything
will soon be over, and you'll be well
rid of a rascal who has only been a trial and
grief to you.'

THE RESCUE And THE SACRIFICE.

Jenny's fond, piteous struggles proved in
vain. Law and order were inflexible. The
offence was too outrageous. The welfare of
the British army was at stake. Will Thwaite
was to be flogged, though many a kind heart
resented the necessity, or waxed rueful
under it.

The morning of the flogging rose as sultry
as the day on which Will had grossly insulted
his commanding officer in the discharge of
his duty. Will never forgot the airless heat
of his . cell as he lay on his face and awaited
the summons to public shame and torture;
compared to the last the sharp shock and sting
of a pistol-bullet, and the smart of a cut from
a sabre, of which he bore the scars, could have
been as nothing.

Jenny did not lie on her face idle, though

her door was shut, and it was in shrouding
darkness that she busied herself with a dumb
intensity of preparation, in gathering together
fomentations, unguents, rags, and bandages,
and in filling a disused kit with wearing
apparel and provisions for a journey.

But the post-runners came in before the
hour for drill, and among the letters for the
Colonel was one from a firm of London
lawyers, which filled the scrupulous man with
disturbance and dismay. There could be no
mistake about it. He knew by name the
respectable firm that applied to him, and their
communication was carefully attested.

The laws of the service were as the laws
of the Modes and Persians. Never had there
been a more scandalous contempt of discipline
than that shown by Will Thwaite on the
parade-ground. But though the welfare of
the British army ought to be the first consideration,
there was also something  a great deal,
according to Colonel Bell's ideas  to be said
in support of aristocratic privileges and prejudices.
Good heavens ! a baronet and squire
of many acres and long descent could not be
flogged in the presence of a regiment of
soldiers ; some of whom represented his social

equals and future associates, while the rest
were his undoubted inferiors. This was what
the matter had come to.

The lawyer's letter to Colonel Bell contained
the document which was to buy off
William Thwaite, private in the regiment, on
the pounds that he had succeeded to the
rank and property of a grand-uncle, and was
now Sir William Thwaite, of Whitehills, in
Eastham, and it was not fit either for the
rank and file of the army, or for the honourable
fraternity of baronets and squires, that
he should continue a day longer than was
necessary a private soldier, even in the most
select and distinguished regiment.

What would the firm think if the tidings
were flashed to them that the baronet and
squire was about to receive his deserts in the
form of corporeal punishment ?

Xo, it could not be ; the sentence, stringent
as the obligation was, must be quashed 
whether on the plea that the negotiation for Sir
William's discharge had o-one a certain length
before he committed the offence, whether that
Will Thwaite and Sir William, of Whitehills,
were two different and distinct individuals, or
fi:'om some other flaw in the indictment.

An informal council or court of astonished,
scandalized officers was held, Colonel Bell
assumed the responsibility with the War
Office, and it was announced to a yet wider
circle of open-eyed, open-mouthed, interested
persons, that no flogging was to be performed.
For William Thwaite, or more properly, Sir
William Thwaite, had already ceased to belong
to the service, therefore his misconduct had
been dealt with under a false assumption. If
he were still to be held accountable it must
be before another tribunal.

The news found Sir William too stunned
to take in its meaning beyond the two items
that he was delivered at the eleventh hour
from indelible obloquy, and that he was at
liberty to depart from scenes which had
become odious to him.

He staggered out into the blinding sunshine,
doggedly enduring the measured explanations
and shy, awkward congratulations
of his recent superiors and judges, and impatiently
shaking off the rougher and readier
good wishes of his former allies. He went
straight to his sister's without waiting for an
invitation from Lawrie Thwaite, who, to be
sure, looked more taken aback with the extraordinary

change in his brother-in-law's
fortunes even than Colonel Bell had appeared.
The Colonel, after the first shocked sense of
incongruity and confusion, detestable to a
man of his precise cast of mind, did not testify
any vindictiveness or unwillingness to admit
that the scales had undergone a sudden reversal
in a comrade's case. But Lawrie
shrank into himself, looked blue and green,
and could hardly furbish up the thankfulness
that was called for from him.

Did you ever see a chap hang his head as
if his nose was bleeding, because his brother-in-law
weren't walloped, and had come into a
pot of money and a handle to his name? It
ain't always not lost what a friend gets,'
remarked a shrewd observer.

Could this fellow have counted on any
chance of his coming into the succession ? He
is a cousin of the other beci:o;ar's, and he mio;ht
have calculated on this Will's never getting
the better of the beastly consequences of his
precious performance, drinking himself to
death, or shooting himself. I have known a

an pull the trigger on less provocation,' surmised
a more thoughtful speculator on the event,
which was the talk of the station for weeks

VOL. I. 2

V

to come. ' Well, I for one am glad that the
luck has fallen to the first. He has the thews
and sinews of a man ; a clean-made, well-knit
fellow, and would have been a first-rate
soldier if he could have learnt self-control. I
remember his dragging Roberts out of the
enemy's range in the encounter in the
Little Ghaut, when he first came out, and we
had some brisk business doing. But he was
always getting into a mess, and this last
spurt of insolence threatened to put on the
finishing-touch. He will go to the dogs as
it is, taking a little longer time perhaps.'

Nobody save the two saw and heard the
ecstasy of Jenny's recovery of her brother and
recognition of his changed estate.

Nobody  Jenny included  doubted that
Sir William would immediately start for
England, where much business, the irksomeness
of which would be splendidly gilded,
must await him. The lawyers had sent
ample funds for his travelling expenses, and
there was nothing to detain him. Indeed,
Sir William and his comrades had rubbed
shoulders with such an extremely awkward
contretemps that they felt mutually abashed
and inclined to get rid of each other.

But a sorrowful, peremptory impediment
sprang up on the eve of Will's starting.
Jenny as worn by long years of work, and
her constitution had not been improved by
the climate of India. She was further spent
by the burning anxiety and incredible exertions
of the last few days, in the hottest of
the hot season. She fell a ready victim to
the fever hovering about the native town, and
the disease from the commencement assumed a
hopeless aspect.

There was no want of interest and sympathy.
The mingled sensations which Sir
William's story had excited relieved themselves
in a crowd of attentions to the invalid.
Jenny had many more shapes of jelly, bottles
of wine, and preparations of iced milk sent to
her than she could have possibly swallowed,
though her short illness had been indefinitely
prolonged. Her former employers waylaid
Sir William and Lawrie Thwaite every time
they stirred abroad, with inquiries, offers of
service, even proposals to come and share the
task of nursing the patient. These demonstrations
proceeded quite as much from the
romance of the situation, with the melancholy
nature of poor Jenny's final part in Sir

22

William's good fortune, as from interested
motives.

Lawrie Thwaite did not fail in attention to
his wife, though he had never recovered from
the combined shocks of his kinsman's dishonour
and honour. He was a plain man, he
said, and could not stand such flights of
fortune. But he knew a good wife when he
had her. He was persuaded  drawing the
deduction from his own disposition, that it
would be the last blow ; everything would be
up with him if Jenny died, and not only deprived
him of her services, but severed the
near connection between him and Sir William.
'Drat Will Thwaite, that he should bear a
title like an alderman or a took.'

But Jenny, who had always been courageous
and self-denying, was resigned to her fate and
the will of God. She tried her best to meet
and overcome the passionate rebellion of her
brother. Her heart was still so full of gratitude
and joy on his account that she had no
room for sorrow herself It appeared as if
she had come to see that all was for the best,
and could feel an unearthly satisfaction in this
last offering up of herself for the lad.

You won't want me any more, Will ; I

should only have been in your way she said
faintly.

Jena he protested in his vehement depths
of love and sorrow, * you know I would
rather have lived in the most miserable den,
and had nothing except potatoes and salt to
keep me from starving, with you, than without
you be master of the finest house in the kingdom,
and have grand furniture and delicate
dishes at my command. So don't go for to
leave me, Jen  don't, if you ever cared a
farthing for a scamp who was never worth the
trouble you took for him, and the fondness
you wasted on him.'

No, no, my dear; I have my reward when
I think of you as a gentleman among the best.
I do know that it is sore for you to give me
up, for we've come through the hards together,
that we 'ave ; but we've seen the last of
poverty and knocking about, and it is all for
the best. A pretty like figure I should have
made as a maronite's sister ! Why, Will ' 
raising herself up with difficulty, a smile on
her wan face  ' you'll get a fine young lady
for your wife, as good as she is fine. You
won't miss your sister Jen, though your kind
heart will never let you forget her.'

I don't want a fine young lady said Will
hoarsely. ' What should I do with such
cattle? They would only laugh at me and
despise me. I only want you, Jen.'

Ah, lad, you don't know what is good for
you. Best content ; there is One as knows,
and He don't make no mistakes, though it
ain't the thing we fancy we want He gives us
mostly. But there is something you can do
for me, lad, before I go  a single favour I'm
bold to ax.'

Ax all I have, and you are welcome to it.
Don't put your request in that way,' said
Will reproachfully.

Nay, it is the fitting way, since you are
the head of the house  Sir William, no less '
dwelling on the words in her weak voice
with loving triumph.  If I am not the first
to do you honour, who should be ? But I
hasn't too much breath to spare. Will, dear,
it is the drink that has been your ruin; not
that you're ruined  far from it  and you ain't
a sot  God forbid!  but you've gone your
own way, and not been too peticklar about
the-company you kep'  judging others as you
did yourself, like a innocent 'inspirited chap
not always looking out for number one,

keeping out of mischief yourself, and leaving
others to pay the piper, like poor Lawrie, and
the drink has done the rest; when it was on
you it has driven the vit clean out, and made
your temper work like mad. Promise you will
have no more to do with the drink, for it
tempts gentle and simple, in one shape or
another, as I've seen in some of the tip-top
bungalows, where I've gone to do a day's
washings. Your beings Sir Wil'am and a
squire will not keep you straight, but will
only make your fall the greater, if you let the
drink get the better of you. I'll not rest in
my grave if that day come. Promise me,
Will, you'll have done with the drink, and
I'll die 'happy.'

I swear I'll never put my lips to a glass
from this day forth, if that will content you.
It is the least I can do for you, that has done
everything for me since mother left me a
whining baby,' the young man vowed
solemnly.

And I can answer for your keeping your
word  that's my good lad,' declared the dying
woman, with growing feebleness and perfect
satisfaction.

Will roused her afresh.

Is there anything more I can do for you,
Jen ?' he implored  ' not for myself, but for
yourself or any other person you mind about

Bless the lad ! what should I desire now
but to 'ave him sitting there, where my eyes
can fall upon him, the last thing. Well, there
is, Lawrie. I doubt poor Lawrie will miss
me a bit,' muttered Jenny, rather in a tone
of benevolent consideration than of keen
sympathy. ' You might spare a trifle and
settle summit on Lawrie. He's your cousin,
as well as my goodman  a poor relation of
the family, such as you were wont to be when
no helping-hand was held out to you ; but it's
forget and forgive where I'm going. With
that and his pension, when his time is out,
he'll fare well enough, without feeling the
likes of me gone, and no more money coming
in to eke out his pay.'

He may have the half of all I'm to get for
your sake, Jen. I don't feel to care about it,'
said the new squire in his despondency. .

The half of your inheritance ! Have you
taken leave of your senses, lad ?' cried Jenny,
almost springing back to life and energy at
the extravagance of the proposal. ' What
would Lawrie Thwaite do with a gentleman's

allowance ? You could never make a gentleman
of him. He would only hoard it, and
run the risk of being robbed and murdered, orbe
cheated out of it by some fair-tongued
scoundrel, for Lawrie ain't wise, though I've
heard him called a wiseacre. Between you
and me he's greedy and cunning, poor soul !
but there bent no great harm in him, and he
hasn't much of a head-piece. Xo, Will, I said
a trifle out of your abundance ; stick to that,
and I 'ont be displeased or troubled with the
fear that I did wrong in marrying Lawrie to
follow you, and so mebbee hung a millstone
round your neck. Ye're but weak critters,
and don't see an inch before our noses. For
his sake as well as for yours, let it be no more
than is in keeping with what he has been used
to, and what he needs. It is another thing
with you, who are to be a grand gentleman, a
benefactor to your kind, like old General
Leigh with his soldiers and the natives.
You remember him and the monster funeral
he had ? Ay, but I would have liked to see
you at the height of your glory !' cried Jenny,
beginning to wander. ' I would have liked to
have seen Whitehills just once, and then crept
down into the dark hole. Whitehills, with

its floors of gold and its gates of pearls, and
you among your ivory and your apes and
peacocks. But we'll meet again in a better
place, Will  a better place, where there's no
more parting.'

Jenny was dead and buried. There had
been a most respectable attendance at her
funeral. It seemed perfectly natural that her
brother, Sir William, should act as chief
mourner, paying his sister all the respect
which she had so richly merited, in his first
appearance in public after his accession to
rank and fortune. The company were
actually at the grave's mouth before an
awkward omission was remarked. The
widower had not joined the little cavalcade.

Will took himself severely to task because
he had shut himself up with his sorrow and
only come out when he was summoned to
walk at the head of the coffin. He went immediately
on his return to seek his brother-in-law,
and take the first steps in the arrangement
which had been agreed upon between
Will Thwaite and his sister. It was too late ;
the wretched man had hanged himself.

The catastrophe was classed as a singular
instance of wedded love and despair in a man

who had not been demonstrative in his regard
for his partner during her lifetime. Paradoxical,
pensive spirits pointed to it as a case
of repressed emotion and misunderstood devotion.


The sorry truth was that Laurence Thwaite
had been goaded beyond the utmost stretch of
his endurance by the cruel chapter of accidents,
which had thwarted all his crafty plans and
secret hopes. Why had events happened so
promiscuously, and yet with such horrible
fruitfulness for Will ? Why had his
prodigal course been stopped, before folly and
the climate had sent him post-haste and
betimes beyond the succession to a baronetcy
and a squire's acres ? Why had the indignity
and anguish of the floooino; been remitted ?
Why had old Sir John Thwaite, after he had
lived beyond his three score-and-twenty years,
not hung out just another month, but insisted
on dying in the very nick of time ? Why
had the post-runners not slackened their speed
and delayed the mail, if but for one hour ?
And now the last misfortune had happened.
Jenny, who was so clever a bread-winner and
manager, had taken it upon her to die out of
hand. There had been no love lost between

him and Will in the past. Will would seize
the opportunity of Jenny's death and his
departure to enter on his possessions, to get
rid of Lawrie, as Lawrie, in similar circumstances,
would have got rid of Will. Lawrie
would be reduced to his poor pay, with the
prospect of greater indigence in his old age,
after he had been let down from a condition of
comparative comfort, and shut out from the
intoxicating prospect of a great inheritance.

It was more than the miserable man could
bear. He counted himself hardly dealt with,
both by God and man ; his brain reeled, and
he flung up the game in a sudden fury, which
altogether overcame his caution and deliberation.


As for Will, he was cut to the heart by what
struck him as the ghastly result of his swift,
selfish unfaithfulness to Jenny's trust ; though
he could not pretend to regret, on any other
grounds than those of horror and pity, his
kinsman's fate. It sank into Will's spirit
that no good had come, or would come, of his
prosperity. It had saved his worthless credit
and life, but it had cost Jenny her life, and it
had driven Lawrie Thwaite to destruction.

CHAPTER lY.

Whitehall.

The Thwaites of Whitetiills were one of the
oldest families in Eastham, but, like many
another old family, all its members had not preserved
its dignity intact, or behaved with the
decorum which ought to have accompanied
blue blood. Two generations before, a foolish
lad had alienated his kinsfolk by a low
marriage with the daughter of one of the
keepers. He had consummated his evil-doing
in the eyes of the head of the house, by declining
to come begging for pardon, and to
submit to the authority which should mete
out to him at once his punishment and such
assistance as might enable him to make the
best of his bad bargain and refrain from disgracing
his family further. He was only too
willing in his refractoriness to drink as he had

brewed ; but since such culprits are not often
gifted with the strength of character and
determination of mind which mark the successful
architects of their own fortunes, the
drink he consumed grew very thin indeed.
He sank lower and lower in the social scale,
and ended by becoming a considerable burden
on his father-in-law, the keeper. He had, as a
matter of course, been dismissed from White-hills
; but as he was a capable, industrious
man, master of his calling, and had not been
privy to his daughter's love and ambition, he
succeeded without much difficulty in getting
employment in another part of the county.

The matter, though a source of mortification
and pain to the Thwaites of that day,
was of less consequence, apart from family
pride and affection, inasmuch as the delinquent
was not the heir, and had more than
one elder brother.

There was no lack of sons then at White-hills
; but time sometimes works havoc
among the strongest of such stays. Time
was rather slow in its work in this instance,
and as a cousin who has descended in the
social ranks is not like a brother fallen into
low life, the successors of the erratic Thwaite

who was at the bottom of the mischief were
still more left to their fate by their illustrious
relatives.

The poor Thwaites, inheriting the good
and evil of the paternal temper, had the rare
grace not to obtrude themselves on the notice
of their loftier kindred, though the plebeian
branch kept up the recollection of their
descent. One of them had even gone so far
as to make, on one of his few holidays, at a
considerable sacrifice, an incognito journey in
third-class carriages and on the tramp, to
gaze, from a respectful distance, with gloating,
covetous eyes on what, in picturesque
lanouaoe, mioht be called the cradle of his
race. He kept the expedition jealously concealed
from people who had even a nearer
interest in it. Xo doubt it added to the liveliness
of the interest, that the news had
filtered somehow to those most concerned of
the gradual sweeping away of the elder branch
of the stock. Deaths at home and abroad,
old bachelors whose rights perished with
them, childless couples equally without representatives,
left the last Sir John, in the direct
line, limited to his family and to the alien
Thwaites for the preservation of the title and

land in connection with the original name.
He had no power by the terms of the entail to
will away the inheritance  even so far as heirs
female, while there existed the remotest heirs
male who could prove their descent and produce
their registers.

In view of the exigency of the situation,
Sir John seized the opportunity of marrying
twice  first in early manhood and again late
in life. A third opportunity was not vouchsafed
to him. In the first instance, the
children died in infancy. In the second, the
sole child born was a boy, weak both in body
and mind.

There seemed no resource for Sir John save
to make himself acquainted with his poor relations,
and cultivate them diligently while there
was yet time to provide a decent wearer of his
honours. But the old man was of an arrogant,
narrow temper. He clung to the last, with as
much passionate pride as human feeling, to
the hope that his poor boy, with all the aid
which his position could give him, would grow
stronger and wiser as he grew older, and when
that trust was stamped out by the death of the
little fellow, the father would not consent to
put a low bumpkin in his son's place. He

washed his hands of the whole matter, the
error of his ancestor and the misfortune of an
illiterate, underbred master of Whitehills. Sir
John peevishly refused to do what he could to
set the wrong right. If Providence had chosen
it was to be so, why should he plague himself
to concoct a partial remedy ? On the contrary,
he did his best to become enamoured of
the Frenchwoman's motto, ' Acres moi le
deluge

All that Sir John would attempt for the
credit of the name and the good of the place
was to live as long as he could and keep the
interloper out till his last breath. This he
contrived to do till he was an octoofenarian
with four or n years to spare.

The Thwaites with the puddle in their blue
blood had not been longer lived or more productive
of heirs than the main line had shown
itself. At last the inferior branch resolved
itself into Will and Jenny Thwaite, the son
and daughter of the elder grandson of Dicky
Thwaite, who fell from his station by marrying
the keeper's daughter, and Lawrie Thwaite,
the grandson of the younger son of the same
worthy. There was no confusion of numbers
or difficulty in tracing the proper descendant

VOL. I. 3

from the man who formed the link to the
baronetcy and estate. Perhaps the wonder
was that no long-sighted individual had anticipated
the end, and insisted on advancing
money, or otherwise bettering the condition of
the future Sir William. But Will and Jenny
would have looked shyly on such overtures,
and their going out to India put temptation
more out of their reach.

Sir William had never seen Whitehills before
the day that he drove down to it with his
lawyer, one of the leading members of the
well-reputed firm, a clever little gentlemanlike
man, who honestly wished to do his best
by his strange client, but could not make
much of him, as he watched him curiously at
a crucial epoch of his history. Sir William
was a personable enough young fellow of 
or six-and-twenty. He was not above \
feet eight inches in height ; but his sinewy
figure was well developed. His carriage was
good, though it partook a little of the ramrod
; but that defect was sometimes to be
found in the bearing of field-marshals. Thanks
to his soldiering, Sir William was delivered
from the clumsy, loutish shuffle or slouch of
a day-labourer or a mechanic, and from the

jerking gait or skip of a journeyman tradesman
or counter-jumper. His close-cropped
hair was chestnut ; the florid colouring of his
face had not yet lost the bronze of India and
the tan of a sea voyage. It was a complexion
which was not a bad match for that of a
college undergraduate who went in for athletic
sports, or of a country gentleman who had his
year strictly divided into fishing, shooting, and
hunting seasons.

In some respects the lad looked younger
than his years, though he was of manly make.
In others  in a slight massiveness peculiar to
his features, and in what had become the inflexible
gravity of his aspect, he gave one the
idea of maturer age than he had attained.
The best and the most striking things in his
face consisted of two marked traits. The
natural sweep of his hair made an ample
corner on each side of his forehead, disclosing
a full brow above, well apart eyes and eyebrows,
which lent an impression of honesty
and frankness, as well as of intellectual
capacity. His eyes were dark blue, and though
they sparkled oftener than they melted, would
have gone a long way to confer beauty on a
woman's face. The worst points were income



gruous and contradictory in the inferences to
be drawn from them. The jaw inclined to
dogged squareness, while the chin was ill-defined
and boded weakness.

Mr. Miles the lawyer, doing the necessary
detention of Sir William in town, had in the
most delicate manner suggested an outfit in
accordance with the change of rank. This
and other considerate attentions had provoked
no restiveness on the part of their object, such
as might have been apprehended from a feather-headed
fool suddenly raised to an elevation
altogether beyond his level, with the etiquette
of which he was necessarily unfamiliar. Sir
William adopted a tweed morning-suit and a
dinner-dress without making any difficulty.
What he did in trifles was a happy sign of
what he might accomplish in weightier matters.
His mode of meeting the hints given him
raised him in the opinion of the late Sir
John's agents. But the instructions could
not be more than hints, for with all his
rusticity and simplicity, there was something
about the heir which kept sensible, self-respecting
men, gentlemen themselves, at a
proper distance.

On the other hand, there was nothing about

Sir William which could force his prompters
to look down upon him, while they should be
under the necessity of taking the upper hand
with him. The lawyers found their client
had fair parts, and could understand what
was explained to him, even though it had todo
with business out of his accustomed rut.
He had received a very tolerable education in
the three great primitive R's and of one R
he had availed himself pretty considerably, in
what appeared, at first sight, untoward circumstances.
He had a taste for reading, and
in spite of his admitted wildness, had taken
advantage of the regimental library.

Altogether, what with the o;ain of his foreign
experience and military training  granted that
the last was in the ranks  he might at least
hold his own, on the score of ordinary intellectual
knowledge, with those young English
gentlemen who have no taste for the
classics, have been plucked over and over again
in their examinations, frequent stables and
kennels instead of drawing-rooms, and never
open a book except the Field or Belts
Life.

Messrs. Miles and Dickinson were rather
proud of their client. They had dreaded

something very different ; now they augured
quite hopefully of his future  a quiet fellow,
not at all without common sense, which was
"better than uncommon genius, who had done
with sowing his wild oats, and pulled up
effectually so far as anybody could judge. He
might not make such a mess of the baronetcy
and property as some very fine gentleman
would have done. Manners, of course, he
had none \ but no manners were a great improvement
on bad manners. He had everything
to learn there, but comparatively little
to unlearn. He had his drop of good blood,
which people would be particularly ready to
recognise, seeing it was now fitly balanced by
an old title and good landed property. The
last, no agricultural depression, or vindictive
policy of old Sir John in granting long leases
at low rents, and pensioning dependents inordinately,
could greatly impair. In those
days, when landowners had a strong call to
fall back into gentlemen farmers working their
own land, against odds too, Sir William might
not be amiss as a plain country gentleman.
Let him marry well 

A penniless lass with a long pedigree,'

and sailor faire to her finger-tips, and be
amenable to his Tvife in those respects in which
she was his superior, and there was no fear of
him. He seemed a finish fellow in the main,
both in physique and morals.

What puzzled and disconcerted Mr. Miles
in his otherwise satisfactory charge, was the
inflexible gravity and inscrutable reserve with
which Sir William made acquaintance with
his prospects, and at last with his place. It
was surely unnatural, especially at his age,
that he should express no rejoicing, hardly
even satisfaction, at his accession. He had
lost his sister very recently, but the death of
an elderly married woman, though she had
brought him up, was not likely to affect so
deeply a young fellow with the ball at his
foot.

Sir William and Mr. Miles were driving
over from the nearest station in a trap which
the lawyer had appointed to be ready for
them. He had thought it better not to order
the Whitehills carriage to meet them, with its
announcement that the new master was come,
and its proclamation of the news to everybody
they might pass on the road. The wiser arran
element was for Sir William to arrive

Without attracting particular attention. If a
demonstration were demanded and found desirable,
let it come later, when everybody
should be better acquainted and prepared for
what was to happen. When Sir William's
wishes were asked on the subject, he emphatically
acquiesced in Mr. Miles's judicious
plan.

The day was in spring, during blustering,
but not cheery March weather. The landscape
was as flat as most of the scenery of
Eastham ; but it was not without its charms
in the absence of picturesqueness. It was
wide and free, even to its broad, rutted,
shaggy green lanes, in which a gipsy encampment,
or the evicted Shakers might pitch a
tent or two, and still leave ample room for
the small traffic, principally of carts or
waggons and day-labourers passing that way.
There was a certain rugged sincerity in the
unpretending homeliness of the fields, together
with a shade of sadness and sombreness
oftener attributed to some descriptions
of French, than to any examples of English
landscape.

This suspicion of pathos had a complex
origin. This corner of Eastham had never

been in the van of agricultural progress, and
was as moderately productive as it was inadequately
cultivated. It had plenty of well-preserved,
carefully stocked coverts for game,
and bore a hunting reputation; but the low
value of the land in other respects was evident,
not merely in the spaciousness and frequency
of the lanes, but in the recurring wedges of
ground covered with straggling, sodden grass
and rushes.

The country here was very scantily populated.
Anything like market towns or villages
worthy of the name were separated by six or
eight miles. In general, a village was represented
by half-a-dozen thatched or tiled
houses  not even clustering together, but
standing with wide gaps, till the dwellings
extended over a quarter of a mile  by solitary
road-side inns, and road-side shops which jar
took of the character of Australian stores. As
for the small, ancient, often beautiful churches,
they seemed to exist principally in connection
with their rectories, sometimes equally
beautiful in their mellow, red-brick multiplicity
of angles and luxuriant green draperies.
The mansions of the nobility and gentry were
largely conspicuous by their absence, and the

squires' seats had sunk into farmhouses,
dating in more than one instance from pre-elizabethan
times, which would have delighted
the antiquary or the archaeologist. There was
an arrested, isolated, half clownish, poverty-stricken
aspect about what was, in fact, one
of the most primitive districts in England,
though it had not been furnished with any
barricade of hills or rivers.

The working people, consisting almost entirely
of day-labourers, the moment they had
passed their first youth, looked dull and
apathetic, on rare occasions fierce and savage,
as if heart and spirit had either been crushed
out of them, or raised into sullen revolt by
the grinding toil necessary to keep soul and
body together. It was probable that William
the Conqueror's Doomsday Book attested the
region  what with Norman castles, Saxon
homesteads, and religious houses, squatters
on waste territory, fishers of pike and tench
and shooters of wild-fowl  more populous
and fully as thriving as it was to-day.

So much for the sombreness of what was
comparatively waste, half-inhabited and downtrodden
in this section of Eastham ; but there
was no gloom which a March wind and a

changeful ]\Iarcli sky could not relieve and
carry off. There was a flavour of liberty and
a feelings of room to breathe in the un crowded
earth and the un vitiated, though somewhat
moist and heavy air. The patches of blue in
the sky were matched by the springing green
corn, and the banks studded with primroses.
There were more than primroses gemming the
little watercourses and the long grass by
the sides of the ditches ; there were such
quantities of purple and white violets unseen
by the travellers, that they lent a subtle
sweetness to the scent of decaying leaves and
freshly turned-over earth. Rooks were wheeling
and cawing over the ploughing and the
sowing in the fields. Small birds were stirring
and chirping in the coverts, where the twigs
of the underwood had swollen with the bourgeois
and acquired the bluish-purple tint of
the bloom on a plum. Colts, calves, and
lambs were kicking up their heels and frisking
in the meadows.

That is Whitehills, Sir William. Let me
congratulate myself on being the first to point
out to you the home of your ancestors,' said
Mr. Miles, betrayed into tall language by the
importance of the occasion, as the trap turned

the bend of the road which brought the
mansion-house into view.

Just so. Thank you, sir said Sir William,
who had not got over the last form of address,
and who spoke mechanically and almost as
apathetically as any native. He did not even
spring up to a standing position to catch a
better glimpse of the house ; what he did see
of it, perhaps, was not calculated to strike him
much, unless he were blinded by the sense of
ownership. He was neither antiquary nor
archaeological, and what he distinguished between
the leafless branches of the trees of
the park was only a long, low white building,
with the remains of a moat in a gleaming
pond  a common feature of all the old  halls '
in that part of Eastham. The house was not
likely to impress his ignorant, underbred taste.
He felt rather inclined to contrast the reality
a little sadly and sardonically with his poor
Jen's delirious dreams  in which she confounded
earth and heaven  of floors of gold
and gates of pearls.

Mr. Miles had cleared his throat and began
to talk of the origin of the name. There were
no hills in Eastham, and hardly even one
elevation here. Some people thought that

hills ' referred to remote cromlechs or mounds
over illustrious dead, whether Danes or Normans,
Saxons or Britons, and that the adjective
* white ' meant either the unsullied purity
of their patriotism, or the clear light of that
land to which their souls had fled.

Old Sir John had pensioned his domestics
so liberally, that they had retired in a body,
for the most part, to enjoy the idleness and
domesticity secured to their declining years.
One or two, who had been more Lady
Thwaite's servants than Sir John's, went to
form the nucleus of a comfortable establishment
for the will-jointured widow at the
dowager-house of Atherton, four miles off.
Mr. Miles had taken care that a new staff
should be put in office, and had enlarged to
his wife on the great gain of a discreet butler
and a staid, efficient housekeeper. The first
performance of these important minor actors
in the drama was perfectly satisfactory, and
did credit to Mrs. Miles' s selection. They
behaved with the silent, attentive civility
which was all that was wanted from them.
If they could practise imperturbability in
addition to the quiet discharge of their duties,
it might be as well ; though Mr. Miles began

to hope more and more that Sir William
would not from the beginning tax too severely
the nerves of his domestics, or outrage their
standards. No doubt a gentleman from the
ranks might hold his tongue to his agent, and
yet not preserve his distance from the inferiors
with whom he would come in constant contact.
For that matter, these would hardly
have held him their social equal of old. But
Mr. Miles was fain to anticipate better things
from Sir William.

The heir had crossed the fine old hall,
really a choice specimen of a low-roofed, but
spacious, many-recessed entrance hall, where
black and white marble had preceded tiles,
and a great fireplace, sending forth a ruddy
glow of light and heat, civilised a grateful
warmth, that took out the sting implanted by
the March winds, and offered a kind of
physical welcome home.

From the equally balmy atmosphere of a
corridor, rich in pictures, cabinets, and the
superseded Lady Thwaite's fancy in flower-stands
and low ottomans, Sir William had
entered the library, with its entire lining of
books, its classic busts, and faint perfume of
generations of culture transmitted by the

medium of old Russia leather. It had been
Su" John's study, though he was neither a
scholar nor a student, and it had never
struck him as out of keeping with its possessor.
But it was here that the sense of the
contrast between his past and present position
seized upon Sir John's successor and staggered
him.

It was easy enough to guess that the
change might be too great to be pleasant,
though none save Will Thwaite himself knew
the whole story of that Xhilpoor, where he
had lain on his face groaning, awaiting the
brutal punishment of the lash. The scene
rose up before him with sickening, revolting
vividness. Just so it would arise and fill him
with a kind of dire bewilderment and terror
as of discovery, exposure, and the awakening
from a mad beguiling dream, on many a
future occasion, which would otherwise have
been among the gladdest and brightest experiences
of his life. Xot the den at Xhilpoor
alone, for that had not been the first instance
of his lying under arrest in a dog-hole, neither
had he been a martyr to military tyranny and
his commanding officer's persecution. He
had deserved all he had got and more. The

gulfs of low debauchery in which he had been
sinking deeper and deeper, from which Jen
had striven in vain to warn and snatch him,
stood out as plainly written in letters of fire
on his brain. From the moment he had bent
over Jen's bed and known himself powerless
to save her, his remorse for those grievous
sins against her devotion, which had cost her
life, smote him with throes of self-disgust,
convulsing his nature and threatening to
remain an indelible accusing record on his
conscience, quickening any original sensitiveness,
which had been hardening for years, and
rendering it morbid for life. He could not
agree with her that she would have cut but a
poor figure wherewith to adorn his elevation
in rank. If that were true, then perish the
elevation, for he knew, if none else did, how
far she was his superior. He had slain the
creature who had done everything for him,
and was so much better than he. It was over
her grave that he had stepped to his promotion.
He had even in his wretched self-engrossing
neglected her last charge and
suffered Lawrie to perish. If it were not for
his pledge to Jen, he would not care what
became of him when everybody was singing

out the mocking lie that he had been so lucky
in coming into a fortune and all that rubbish.
But for Jen's sake he must keep his word,
and deny himself to the last the one antidote
to his misery. He must die game and sober.

VOL. I.

NEIGHBOURS.

Sir William had paused on the threshold of
the library, and Mr. Miles, who was watching
his companion, saw him get first red and
then white, and hang his head. The next
moment the master of the house walked to
one of the windows, and, as if to mask any
disturbance he had betrayed, asked, in the
slow, measured speech which attaches to
speakers who weigh every word they utter:

What is that house to the right ? Who
occupies it?'

 There is only one house within sight, I
think,' said Mr. Miles, in the easy, unaffected
tone he sought to establish between the two,
joining the speaker as he spoke. ' That is
Lambford; it belongs to Lord Termor. He
is in his dotage, and Lady Fermor rules for
him. She is your nearest neighbour. I am

sorry to say she cannot be called a good
neighbour.'

Sir William's curiosity was easily satisfied.

Naturally it was not the first time that the
lawyer had dined with his client. Mr. Miles
had already found the opportunity of noting
two things. One was that the young Baronet
conducted himself very much according to
ordinary rules. He had assisted as an orderly
at mess dinners ; he had come home first-class,
and, being surrounded by an odour of good
fortune, his presence had been welcomed instead
of tabooed at the table cVhote. He was
too proud to subject himself to ridicule by
failing to acquire habits which the practice of
a little observation and self-restraint could
quickly teach him. A smart soldicj clean
and neat to finicalness, tutored to one species
of etiquette, has always the making of a conventional
gentleman in him, however far he
may be from the higher type, and Will Thwaite,
apart from his fits of dissipation, had been a
very smart soldier.

The second peculiarity which had attracted
Mr. Miles' s attention was that Sir William
drank nothing save water. Taken by surprise,
the elder man was tempted to rally the

42

University OF

younger gently, for the former was already
doubtful whether the latter were a fellow at
whom his neighbours could safely poke fun.
Are you a Good Templar ? Have you taken
the pledge ?'

Sir William did not appear to see the joke.
No, I am not, though there are some of the
sort in India,' he said with his accustomed
gravity; ' but I have taken a pledge, though
it is not of the kind you mean.'

All right,' answered Mr. Miles. ' Every
man should judge for himself.' At the same
time he was reflecting in his own mind, ' I
wish you may keep it. Possibly these are the
safest lines for you.'

So it was the butler, and not Mr. Miles,
who received a shock from the man's master's
decided waiving aside of his attentions with,
I don't want any wine.'

'o wine, Sir William ? I beg pardon, sir,
but I think I must be mistaken. Do you
mean neither sherry nor chablis, nor hock? 
I have them all here with the liqueurs, and
the claret and port later. Perhaps you prefer
a liqueur first. Some of the gentlemen I have
been with always began with a liqueur.'

No '  Sir William stopped himself just intime

from saying, ' Xo, thank you, sir,' to the
black-coated dignitary hanging anxiously on
his swords  ' I drink nothing but water, my
man,' floundering into the opposite extreme of
too affable familiarity this time. ' You need
not trouble to have out these things,' indication
the old cut wine-classes and decanters,
with a fine indifference, ' unless, of course,'
stammering a little as he corrected himself,
for the obligations of hospitality are strong
in the class from which he had just emerged,
when any gentleman is here who drinks
wine.'

The butler knew that his master had been
a grub before he became a butterfly, but the
sentence about the wines floored the subordinate
considerably. ' I say,' he remonstrated
with himself, ' I can't stand this. " My man,"
indeed! from one who has pipe-clayed his own
belts and polished his own shoes. Why, the
Dean called me as often "* Mr. Cumberbatch"
as not. Good waoes, lia'ht work, and time to
one's self is all very well, and an inducement
to put up with a master who has risen from
the dirt, though he were the rio-ht heir, and is
a likely enough young gentleman to look at.
When it comes to that we're all Adam's sons.

But what are we coming to when wine ain't
countenanced at a squire and baronet's table ?
There will be no broken bottles of claret, or
sherry, or nothing' for the hall-table ; and beer
will vanish next. We're to be tea-totters, if
not saints. What about the plate ? Is silver
or silver-gilt sinful ? Are we all to eat off
coarsest earthenware, and sport sackcloth
and ashes ?'

From the caustic irony of his thoughts the
reader may judge how deeply the butler was
moved. Nevertheless Mr. Cumberbatch was
able to bring in a note on a salver, and present
it in a respectful 1} reproachful way to
Sir William. He took it, opened and read it,
and then handed it with a mystified air to his
companion; yet it was no more than one of
those notes which fly about the world launched
by idly busy hands, and do not even require
an answer.

It had only one reason for making a mark
on reaching its destination. It was the daintiest
note Sir William had ever received,
written on black-edged note-paper like satin,
supplied with both a crest and a monogram 
a tiny version of what, in an enlarged form,
had been shown and explained to Sir William

as the two hounds in a leash under an oak-tree,
which constituted the heraldic bearings
of the Thwaites, together with a fanciful
miniature A. T.

The clear writing was a little bold for so.
small an epistle, while it conveyed the frankest,
most courteous, and magnanimous of greetings.


Dear Sir Williams! ' (it said),

 I cannot help calling you so, and
desiring to be the first to bid you welcome to
the charming old place, which I know so welland
where I have been so happy. That you
are in the room of my dear husband and
beloved child is only an additional reason
why I should have the most cordial interest
in your welfare, if you will allow me to say
so. I trust I shall soon have the pleasure of
seeing you, and knowing you as a friend and
near neighbour.'

Believe me, dear Sir William,

Yours sincerely,

Ada Thwaite.'

"Well, Sir William ?' said Mr. Miles tentatively,
with a smile, while he was turning

over rapidly in his mind the considerations
which the note suggested. ' What can she
want? She does not intend to become Lady
Thwaite the Second by captivating young Sir
William after she has disposed of old Sir
John. Oh dear, no ! She is a great deal too
astute, while she is too mild and well-bred an
adventuress for so violent and vulgar a dodge.
She must be ten or fifteen years his senior.
Mischief, not malice ; pickings, not plundering,
are her cue. I know her of old. The
prestige of becoming, by the assertion of a
prior right, first and best acquainted with the
gentleman, and then of trotting him out to
the neighbourhood, on the qui vive for his
arrival, if he turn out a decent specimen of
resuscitated gentility, will count for something.
There may be certain dowager perquisites over
and above the bond, though she has a very
pretty jointure, and he is saddled with a life
almost as good as his own on the property.
She will have the use of his horses when he
does not require them, with offerings of game
and fruit beyond what Netherton can produce.
She will have the advantage of continuing the
first female influence at Whitehills till he gets
a wife.'

Mr. Miles's speculations were interrupted.

I suppose it is Sir John's widow, and it is
good of her not to mind,' said Sir William
slowly. ' But what am I to do about her ?
What does she expect me to do ? I have no
acquaintance with people of her kidney. I
am not fit to go into such company; at least,
not yet a bit

It was as if Sir William had proposed to
reply to the note dashed off in a few minutes,
by sitting down at his desk, squaring his
arms, and inditing with care and deliberation,
and not without the assistance of a dictionary,
a formal, frozen letter, so precisely to the
point that it might have been printed ; and for
that matter, its clear, firm, upright characters
were not unlike print.

Oh, you will find no difficulty!' said Mr.
Miles cheerfully. ' I know Lady Thwaite
quite well, and will introduce you if you like.
She is not a hard person to get on with, and
she may, in turn, make you acquainted with
the neighbourhood, which, in the sense of
society, is not extensive  the less reason for
you to withdraw into a shell. Let me oppose
that line with all the weight you will allow
me. It never did any man or woman good to

shun Ms or her kind, and hold them at arm's-length
; any amount of difficulties and rubbing
the wrong way is preferable. Lady Thwaite
means to be gracious, and it will not do for
you  I speak as your friend and senior by
thirty years  to meet her advances ungraciously.
You must condone all former neglect,
or anything that strikes you as forward in the
present overture. I will confess to you that
I do not give her credit for the finest perceptions
or the most exquisite tact. But the
world, which is not too nice in its tastes, does
not agree with me. It counts her as pleasant
and clever as she is good-natured, and votes
her its greatest popularity. She is certainly
good-natured, but she can be offended, though
she is not very spiteful. She might do you
harm by driving her pair of ponies all over
the country, and airing her rebuff in the spirit
of an accomplished gossip, who finds food for
her calling everywhere. She can treat the
matter either as a grievance or as a good joke,
which would be rather the worst treatment of
the two.'

I don't care a rap,' cried Sir William,
swelling a little with indignation ; ' she may,
if she likes, for me. I shall be a poor creature.

indeed, if I mind what a parcel of old women
say

Softly, softly, my dear fellow !' asserted
Mr. Miles, seeking to keep the peace. * Xo
man can afford to be so independent. In the
second place. Lady Thwaite is not an old
woman. What put such a shocking idea into
your head ? I shall be surprised if you take
her for more than five-and-twenty  about
your own age  when you see her. In reality
she is a handsome, well-preserved woman between
five-and-thirty and forty  no more.*

I shall think the worse of her if she is
made up to look what she is not, like a horse
at a fair said Sir William a little doggedly,
and with brutal plain speaking, as a recollection
flashed across his mind of his sister Jen,
with her spare, worn figure and face, and her
patches of grey hair. Where had he read  for
this ex-sergeant had been given to reading in
his wiser moments  of such ashen patches as
flakes of heaven's sunshine?

You must remember she has a claim upon
your forbearance,' represented Mr. Miles
adroitly, not noticing the ebullition which
smelt of the hole whence Sir William had
been dug. ' Your first impulse to regard

it as good of her to write to you was not
altogether wrong. Poor soul ! the fate of her
boy cut her up considerably.'

 Very well, I'll go and see her if that will
be of any use. I expect that is what it will
come to said Sir William, as if he were submitting
to a disagreeable necessity.

Mr. Miles had to be content with the concession.
Holding intercourse with Sir William
at this date partook a good deal of the nature
of a one-handed conversation, and the one-mindedness
seemed to increase when the only
share of the host in the post-prandial conviviality
consisted in passing the decanters,
which Sir William was scrupulous to do.
The situation began to get intolerably heavy
to a town-bred man accustomed to a very
different description of dining out  something
that he was used to regard complacently
as having to do with ' the feast of reason and
the flow of soul.'

The cub is not a bad cub,' he grumbled,
but I hope Lady Thwaite, or some one
else, will have licked him into shape, so as to
render him livelier, before I visit Whitehills
again. Funeral baked meats would be a
hilarious entertainment in comparison with
this orgy on entering into possession

As a little variety after coffee had been
sent in, Mr. Miles proposed a stroll in the
dusk, comforted by the sense that things
would not be so unsocial, since Sir William
had not abjured a pipe along with a
glass.

The two men went as far as one of the
park gates, and stood leaning over, looking
into the darkening hioh-road. It was as
empty as most country roads at the season
and hour, when all at once a close carriage
appeared in the distance, looming out of the
obscurity, jolting rather than bowling along.

Mr. Miles grew quite excited by this little
adventure, though it was hardly within the
bounds of possibility that it could bring other
visitors to Whitehills. As the carriage drew
nearer he had, at least, the satisfaction of
announcing that he knew it. It was one of
the Lambford carriages ; he had seen the
liveries when he was down at Whitehall
before. Lady Fermor must have been at
Knotley to her banker or shopping. The old
lady still did her business for herself, though
it was a mercy to think she was too old for
much which had made her earlier career
notorious.

Mr. Miles's scandal against Queen Elizabeth
was brought to an abrupt conclusion. The
carriage stopped, the coachman kept his post,
while a groom alighted. Presently it became
evident that Lady Fermor wished the lamps
lit before she proceeded farther, and that the
groom was bound for the porter's lodge to get
a light. For anything that the two lookers-on
knew, they might be unseen by the occupants
of the carriage. But it did not accord with
Mr. Miles's old-fashioned politeness to remain
hidden while he could help a lady. He had
met Lady Fermor at old meets and hunting
breakfasts at Lambford. He opened the gate,
stepped briskly forward, leaving Sir William
behind, and went up, hat in hand, to the
window, which had been drawn down.

Can I do anything for you. Lady Fermor?'
he asked with the civility of a man of the
world. ' I dare say you have forgotten me.
My name is Miles. At one time I was often
down from town on law business of poor
Sir John's, and I had the pleasure of getting
a little sport and enjoying Lord Fermor's
hospitality when the scent held and we could
get a run across country.'

Lady Fermor's old head, in a somewhat

juvenile bonnet, was thrust out of the window
at once. Hauteur or reserve had never been
among her faults.

*I remember you perfectly, Mr. Miles. I
am glad to renew our acquaintance. Will
you be so good as to see that my groom lights
the lamps so that one or other does not go out
after the first hundred yards ? I have been
to Knotley, and stayed too long  let myself be
benighted like a dissipated old woman. But
what brings you down here just now ? Is it
anything about your new clown of a
baronet ?'

 Hush ! he is just behind me.' Mr. Miles
was forced to warn her.

There, bring him forward at once and
present him to me, and to my grand daughter.
Iris is in that corner. Are you awake, child?
Were you ever introduced to Mr. Miles ?'

I think not ; but I shall be happy to
undergo the ceremony now,' answered a fresh
young voice.

Many thanks for the permission, Miss
Compton ; but, if you please, we'll agree to
defer the ceremony along with the presentation
to Sir William. I can scarcely see you
two ladies. We are only just come. The

time is not propitious ; let us wait for another
and a happier clay.'

Mr. Miles retreated on the plea of giving
some directions about the lamps.

I am not going to be the man to introduce
Jezebel to him he was resolving. * Let
us be thankful she has, in a great measure,
outlived her sorceries and power of ruin ;
but they say she has taken to play in her
age, like the most accomplished performer at
Homburg in its worst days, or Monte Carlo.
I believe the granddaughter, poor thing ! is a
nice girl to have come out of so bad a nest,'
still pursuing his reflections.

Mr. Miles was hampered by the fear that
Lady Termor's personal remark might have
reached the young man ; but as the carriage
disappeared in the darkness from which it
had emerged, and the lawyer rejoined his
companion, he felt bound to deliver his testimony
that danger had been near.

Sir William anticipated him by a remark in
which a shade of doubt and discontent was
just audible.

 I thought you said the Fermors were
a bad lot.'

A shocking bad lot, so far as Lord and

Lady Fermor go,' corroborated Mr. Miles
emphatically.

And yet you are quite thick 'sith them.'
The pupil suddenly turned the tables on his
Mentor, still with the suspicion of mystification
and annoyance in his manner.

Xot thick in your sense,' answered Mr.
Miles promptly; ' not more than common
courtesy demands. I am sorry that your
nearest neighbours are the Terrors, Sir
William. He, poor old wretch, may be
reckoned nowhere now ; but she  well, she
forfeited her place in ladies' society ages ago.
She has, in course of nature, given up hunting,
and there are no more hunting breakfasts,
or stud dinners, or election banquets at Lamb-ford.
The place used to be a great rearing
ground for hunters ; and both host and hostes?
went in strongly for politics  at least, as far
as the hurly-burly of elections. You will
not come across him, and you may not
encounter her ; which, let me tell you, will be
no loss for any young man who wishes to
keep himself straight and avoid temptation.
It is my duty to make you acquainted with
the rumour that high play goes on whenever
she can call up the ghost of company at
Lambford.'

VOL. I. 5

S

Does nobody go near her, then T said
Sir William, dwelling on the isolation. The
sharp ears of his adviser detected that it had
a fascination for a lad who might be a pariah
in his own person. Mr. Miles was induced
to qualify his statement in policy as well as in
verity.

 Oh, not so bad as that ! She raised with
reason the hue and cry of the world against
her, but it is an old, half forgotten story: she
has lived long enough to survive her punishment
so far. The household at Lambford
has been outwardly quiet enough for a dozen
years. If people choose to lose money over
napoleon or vingt-et-un, or no worse than
whist, it is entirely their own doing, and is
quite another matter from a public scandal.
They say she is kind to poor old Lord
Termor. There has never been a word against
Miss Compton, the granddaughter, and she is
likely to inherit her grandmother's savings 
although there are other grandchildren, not
Comptons  Dugdales and Powellss, the children
of two daughters of Lady Fermor by her first
husband. As far as I have heard, they have
never been near Lambford; but Lady Fermor
has taken up her relations, or they have taken

up her, again of late years. Even Lord
Fermor's heir-at-law does not hold it wise
to keep up a quarrel with the present mistress
of the house. Lady Fermor, at her worst,
maintained what I should call a brazen
adherence to her Church whatever it had to
say to her, and I have no doubt subscribes
handsomely to parish charities ; so her rector
and restores, with their staff, must extend a
certain amount of countenance and support to
her: whether or not they regard her in the
light of an interesting penitent, I cannot tell.
Between the oblivion into which her past
is falling, forbearance with her as an old
woman, and pity for an innocent victim like
Miss Compton, there is some amount of
neighbourly amnesty. If I remember rightly,
I have heard Lady Thwaite say she called
at Lambford and had Miss Compton with her,
though Sir John was not too well pleased.
Her ladyship pretended that he wished to keep
the acquaintance for his own entertainment,
while she could not see that she was bound to
know scandal which had happened before she
was born. Shall we drive over to the
quarries I told you of tomorrow, 
?

52

BEAUTY.

Lady Fermok was a bad woman; lie had
been a bad daughter and sister, a bad wife,
mother, and grandmother. She had been
weighed and found wanting in every relation.
Lord Fermor was not her first husband,
neither was she his first wife. It had only
been after passing through the divorce court
in a specially scandalous suit that she had
attained her present position.

But that was half a century ago, years prior
to the birth of Iris Compton's mother. Lady
Fermor' s only child to Lord Fermor. For
many a long day the respectable world refused
absolutely to condone the heinous offence.
But time will serve to obliterate the blackest
stains, and two facts were in Lady Fermor's
favour. The sinner had for a period, which
was equivalent to a moderately long lifetime,

refrained from her old sins against moral and
social laws, and she was now an aged woman.
These facts upheld self-interest, easy-minded
tolerance, and charity in granting some renewal
of the lady's passport to mix with other
than the utterly reckless and polluted of her
sex. Though Eastham was largely conservative,
and its population was by comparison
stationary, and in this respect far removed
from the shifting inhabitants of a great town,
Lady Fermor had neighbours nowadays who
in the rising of new generations, the necessary
prohibition of some topics from free discussion,
and the reluctance of honourable people to
touch pitch and be defiled, knew nothing-further
of the mistress of Lamb ford than that
there had been something wrongs where she
was concerned, long, long ago, something
which was better kept out of hearing, and
gradually lost sight of

Lady Termor was too wise a woman not
to avail herself of the slow, shy relenting,
though she felt more contemptuous of it than
grateful for it. She had never cared for the
members of her own sex, while she had always
been able to be on ' hail-fellow-well-met '
terms with a wide circle of men, so lone as

she was young enough to love company and
enjoy her part in it. Such was the law of the
world in which she lived. Nevertheless there
was a small triumph to Lady Fermor in surmounting
what she considered milk-and-water
and bread-and-butter scruples. Besides, it
was desirable for Iris, her grand-daughter, for
whom her guardian had some consideration
though little affection, that she should have
the entrance to respectable houses presided
over by women on whose reputations suspicion
had not so much as breathed.

Lady Fermor had not secured the last
boon for her daughter, Iris's mother; she had
moved in none but the most Bohemian sets,
and as a natural result had married ill, in
every light save a worldly one, at her mother's
instigation. She had led a wretched life, in
which even the price for which she had sold
herself had failed her. She had not possessed
either spirit or power to rebel against her fate.
Both she and her husband had died young,
and she had left a helpless child, another girl,
to the care of her mother's nearest relatives,
who had made shipwreck of her fortunes.

Hard, heartless, coarse, and corrupted as
Lady Fermor' s career had left her, she felt

that she owed some reparation to her unhappy
daughter's child, and she did not mean
that Iris's history should resemble that of
her mother. Lady Fermor put herself to the
pains to secure an excellent governess, who
did not refuse to enter the family at Lamb-ford.
She placed the pupil entirely under the
teacher's charge.

The mistress of the house did not interfere,
except it can be called interference, that in
the early days of Miss Burrage's domestication,
Lady Fermor did not consider it any
breach of the contract or source of 2eril to
her scheme, to encourage the little girl when
she came to the drawing-room to mimic the
small peculiarities and gaucheries of her
schoolmistress, and to reward these exhibitions
of talent by herself furnishing lessons
in this histrionic school distinguished by its
lack of generosity and tenderness and by its
insolence. She was a well-qualified professor,
and showed up poor Miss Burrage's weaknesses
so as not only to cause the child Iris
to dance with delight, but to awaken universal
laughter among the drawing-room groups,
made up of the fastest men and the shadiest
women in that corner of the kingdom.

Iris used to cry bitterly, a little later in lier
life, over her share in the game, and she would
wonder in her troubled mind whether the
hard, flippant, or affectedly languid laughter
was that crackling of thorns under a pot of
which the psalmist wrote. It was not any
direct word or act of Miss Burrage's which
aroused the remorse and suggested the simile.
On the contrary, when the poor lady could
not help learning the extent to which so
modest and retiring a person as she was had
contributed to the entertainment of the ,
she contented herself with discharging
a delicate duty faithfully. She was forced
for conscience' sake and in Iris's interest to
say to the weeping girl, insisting in an agony
of contrition on confessing her falseness to the
obligations of friendship :

Very true, my dear, it is not right or kind
to mock at your friends behind their backs,
especially for such physical misfortunes 
which are not merely bad tricks, as a lisp, or
short sight, or a queer gait. But don't worry
about it, only don't do it again. I am sure
you never will. Do you think I cannot say
all my absurdities off by heart at my age, or
that I mind much other people's noticing

them, especially as many persons have a
strong sense of the ridiculous which they
cannot easily curb ? You must remember
jesting and laughter break no bones, though
the fun might sometimes be suppressed with a
good grace, and the suppression, strange to
say, rather tend to increase true merriment.'

Miss Burrage was a very remarkable Avoman,
though she could be guilty of lisping, and
blinking, and stalking; as she walked. She
was not merely well informed and accomplished,
a capital teacher with a high character
for uprightness, steadiness, and kindness
to her pupils. She had come to Lambford
well aware of what she was doing, without
saying anything to anybody  not even to
herself, unless in the vaguest way, untempted
by the salary her employers offered, dazzled
by their rank, much as she should have gone
into a Zenana or a lazar-house.

I shall take no harm,' she told herself,
 and while I know I have not ten years' more
work left in me, I should like to do something
apart from earning my bread, for love's
sake.'

Miss Burraofe did more than drive Iris a new
experience, she brought to her a revelation.

In that intensely worldly house, where there
was hardly a law save that of wayward inclination,
when it was not that of vicious self-indulgence,
Iris came into closest contact with
a woman to whom the Divine command of
duty was the ruling, well-nigh the sole power.
At Lambford the pursuit of pleasure, though
it had cooled from its passion and fever, and
was now more of a hard, hackneyed round
than a headlong race, continued to be the
entire business of life. But Iris heard of
work, not as the degrading curse, but as the
ennobling blessing of man's earthly sphere.

Lady Fermor scarcely owned allegiance to
mortal, simply paying the compliment to
Lord Fermor, who had sacrificed all that was
best worth having for her, of behaving to him
with a mixture of careless, boisterous geniality
and half scornful forbearance. Yet she was
capable of being mortified by her exclusion at
the hands of the Lord Chamberlain from
figuring in the Drawing-room lists. She
would have grasped greedily at the slightest
notice from her Queen, at whose honourable,
virtuous life Lady Fermor nevertheless
flouted, since it was beyond her comprehension.


Miss Burrage, somewhat homely and dowdy
in those points of personal appearance and
dress which were extravagantly valued at
Lambford, in the humdrum drudgeries which
seemed to many to constitute her calling, did
not hesitate to believe that from no material
throne but from the blue sky, high as heaven
above her, God saw her and loved her, and
held blessed communion with her as in the
old-world Hebrew stories, when the same God
walked among the trees of the Garden of Eden
and spoke with the first man, Adam, and
called the patriarch Abraham His friend.

It was not in Lady Fermor's bargain, as she
had read it, to allow her grand-daughter to
be reared an enthusiast, with a vocation for
religion and virtue quite out of the common,
and a troublesome, impracticable forte for
righteousness. Lady Termor considered that,
with all her slips and stumbles, she had not
been a bad church woman on the whole ; she
had always stuck to Mother Church as  good
form ' to say the least, and she had her reward.
She was willing that Iris should go farther
and be more consistent in her walk; but as to
her becoming over-pious and over-upright, a
benevolent platform scold, or a meek martyr,

a silent rebuke to lier neighbours in general,
Lady Fermor would sooner have Iris a lunatic
at once and dispose of her in the safe seclusion
of an asylum.

As soon as Lady Fermor perceived the
mischief which was at work  and it was her
thorough scepticism which rendered her blind
to it in the beginning  she did her best to
stop the evil by dismissing Miss Burrage summarily,
and taking Iris, who was then a girl of
sixteen, into her grandmother's charge, to be
cured by a course of such knowledge of the
world and unrestricted gaiety as Lady Fermor
could administer to her. But the harm was
done ; rather the bent was given to the twig
and the inscription carved on the grain, which
not all the king's horses and all the king's
men could untwist and efface. There had been
a seal set on Iris Compton's modest forehead,
which Lady Compton's brow at its smoothest,
least guileful stage had never borne. Iris was
not wax, though she had proved pliant to the
highest culture. She could not unlearn all
she had been taught ; she would not if she
could.

Lady Fermor did not believe in supernatural
aid, but she found in her granddaughter a

quiet power of endurance and passive resistance
which ended by baffling her. For she
was a shrewd old woman. Her wickedness
had destroyed many a faculty of mind and
quality of taste, but it had not interfered much
with her native shrewdness. She could
submit, after a struggle, to the inevitable.
She had no notion in those days of persecuting
the girl, or driving her to greater folly or
madness, or breaking her spirit. Nay, there
was a degree of respect, along with the eternal
grudge of evil against good, bred in the
veteran, by the staunchness of the recruit to
the marching orders which the miserable
marplot Burrage had given. If Iris's mother
could have had as clear an aim and been as
constant to it, she need not have come to such
irreparable grief.

Happily for all concerned, the sinner. Miss
Burrage, had implanted the principle in Iris
that goodness Alas not a charm confined to
any sacred place, or solemn routine of daily
enorao'ements. The first bindings debt the ofirl
must pay was that rudimentary obligation
which Lady Fermor had never dreamt of acknowledging
in her day or contemplated transmitting
to her successors, unless in the sense

of a superior force or a convenient form. It
was that primitive call to reverence, obey, and
be tender to every elder and ruler who is the
ordinance of God, unless when the homage
defies and outrages the unassailable majesty of
truth, purity, and that beauty of goodness
which can know no decay.

All these encounters were things of four or
five years back. Iris had not seen Miss
Burrage from the hour they were parted. The
pupil had heard of the governess's death.
Then Iris had shut her eyes and seen a lonely
ill-trained little girl and a good woman striving
with kind patience to win the child to all
that was honest and lovely. ' And I have
done nothing for her in return,' cried Iris, with
the tears bursting forth \ but after a while she
admitted, with tender magnanimity,  She was
getting feeble before she left. I know she
dreaded to be dependent, and shrank a little
from a lonely old age. I wish, oh ! I wish I
could have cared for her; but since that was
not to be, shall I, of all people, grudge to her
the ' Well done, good and faithful servant''
when we shall not miss each other at last?'
Lady Fermor had come to let Iris alone. The
old woman was not fond of her grand-daughter.

What heart the elder retained was reduced
to a fraction, to which the younger's position
and qualities did not appeal. Occasionally
Lady Termor showed herself spiteful to Iris
with a spite which might increase on provocation
to a formidable malice. But as a rule
the venerable matron  with so little to be
revered in her, alas !  was reasonable, with a
sort of masculine bonhomie about her which
saved her from being guilty of petty tyranny,
and caused her to like that the members of her
family should be comfortable in their own
way  always provided that way did not interfere
with hers  contradiction roused the
demon in her.

Iris was now over twenty years of age, a
tall, slender girl, with a small, well carried
head. She had auburn hair, which she had
worn since childhood, anticipating the fashion,
in little clustering waves and rings low on
her forehead. The mode had been her grandmother's
decree when she discovered the chief
defect in the little face, which was the disproportion
of the broad, full forehead to what
lay beneath it.

Good gracious, child ! who ever saw such a
top to a Queen Anne's sixpence of a face?

You only want spectacles to grow up like
Miss Cornelia  I forget her name  that
schoolmistress of Dickens'. Every man will be

straightened

away by such a brow, unless he
imagines he can save himself trouble by using
it for a dictionary. Bid Woods take crispin
or a wet brush and cover over that
huge overlapping promontory as much as

possible.'

Thus the defect was veiled, and Iris happened
to be one of the very few women improved
by borrowing a hint from her cousins
the monkeys.

In spite of the ominous indication, nature
had not destined Iris for a prodigy of brains,
and Miss Burrage had not completed her
pupil's demoralization in this respect. The
girl was quick and intelligent, and had received
a solid foundation to her education  that was
all. As she grew up she proved enthusiastic
in an age which has invented a new application
for the adjective ' gushing,' and sympathetic
in a dry and parched atmosphere which
would have withered all save keen sympathies.
She was fertile in resource. She had a
natural gift of working skilfully in womanly
fashion with her hands. The little face under

the softly-masked brow remained small, and
when the hazel eves were clear, the mouth
rosy, while the cheeks too had their roses, the
head was a wonderful reproduction in form,
colouring, and expression of the cherub head
which Sir Joshua painted in so many different
poses, having found the original in the head
of the Honourable Isabella Gordon, the kinswoman
of a bouncing beauty of a duchess and
of a crazy fanatic who led a national riot. But
sometimes the cherub was under a cloud, with
drooping eyelids, drooping mouth, and a pale,
wistful little face more suggestive of piteousness
than beauty.

The last was not the normal aspect of the
girl. She had a healthy constitution, physically
and spiritually touched with the highest,
finest influences. She had been accustomed
to an isolated life in that most depressing
atmosphere of age without the attributes
which render a hoary head a crown of glory.
But she was far from friendless either in her
own class or among servants, working people,
and poor people. In the neighbourhood of
Lambford there was a oreat deal of feelings for
Iris Compton, an orphan under bad guardianship),
though she never dreamt of herself as

VOL. I. 6

an object of compassion. The Rector of the
parish and his wife, well-meaning if somewhat
self-conscious people, made a pet of her without
any interference from Lady Termor .
Their only son, Ludovic Acton, was like a
brother to Iris. That one of the Rector's
daughters, nearest to Iris in age, was Iris's
bosom friend, exalted by her lively imagination
far beyond Lucy Acton's deserts, though
Lucy was a good girl.

Iris had a happy temper and a mind that
was neither suspicious, nor exacting, nor
foreboding. She was always busy when she
was by herself, as she was to a large extent
when she was at home, with her share of the
club books, her music, her art needlework, her
favourites among Lady Termor's poultry, her
rockery, and such assistance as she was sometimes
allowed to give Lucy Acton in the
church choir and in parish work. Iris had a
reserve of courage in her character, which
lent an attribute of the heroic to the girlish
womanhood. She had been thrown from her
horse when riding with her groom near the
town of Knotley, and had her collar-bone dislocated.
She had been carried into a house,
where she had given no trouble beyond the

fact that lie had begged her hostess to allow
the doctor who attended Lord and Lady
Fermor to come and set the bone and take her
home in his brougham, in order to spare her
grandmother the shock of hearing of the accident
before she knew it was nothing, and that
Lais was safe back in her room at Lambford.

A painful accident occurred in the butler's
pantry at Lambford ; an unlucky footman in
drawing' the cork of a soda-water bottle
wrenched off the neck and cut his hand
severely. Everybody called out a remedy,
but nobody from the butler to Lady Fermor
could bring himself or herself to look at the
wound or touch it. Then Iris ran in from the
garden, bound up the gash, kept the bandage
in its place, gave brandy to the man when he
grew faint, and stayed to help the doctor after
he arrived in time to take up the severed
artery, because no one else had sufficient nerve
to make him or her willing to become the
medical man's assistant.

Lady Fermor was very angry when she .
knew what had taken place, and said if she
had been aware of the disgraceful chicken-heartiness
of every soul about the place, she
would have ordered each and all, on pain of

62

instant dismissal with a month's wages, to
stand beside the doctor and prevent Miss
Compton's being taken advantage of and put
to such uses.

In spite of her ladyship's indignation, from
that date, whenever a misadventure happened
in the household, the sufferer was sure to
make a secret humble application for help to
Iris, though the girl protested laughingly her
inexperience, and the absence on her part
even of any intention of being trained for a
nurse.

While things often went wrong at Lamb-ford
and in the world. Iris was as sure as she
was of her own existence, that there was a
Ruler over all Who ordered things aright, and
brought good out of evil, and light out of
darkness. She believed He had work for her
to do in His world, and would show her more
and more clearly what it was, if she waited for
Him and did the least thing her hand found
to do, with all her might, for the good of herself
and her neighbours, to His praise. And
when this scene of blessing and tribulation
was ended, there remained the new heavens
and the new earth wherein dwelt righteousness
and the Lord of righteousness.

Iris on the whole was a happy girl, as who
should be if she were not ? She was kept
ignorant, as those nearest the sinner often are,
of the worst of the iniquities of the past at
Lambford. Still she heard and saw much to
distress her, but while she shrank from further
enlightenment, the wroncr-doinsf fell away
from her as something; entirely foreign to her
nature and history. She was very sorry
sometimes. She could not fail to be grieved
and shocked, but it was not for her to judge
and condemn those who were far older than
herself, her natural superiors. She had an
inextinguishable spring of hope in these years.
She was always hoping the best. This was
especially true of the wound dealt to her
affections by the knowledge that neither her
poor old grandfather in his great infirmity,
nor her grandmother in the possession of all
her powers of mind, but bending under the
heavy burden of an aged body, cared much
for her. It was well for Iris that she did not
make much of herself ; that she could trust,
however vainly, that she might yet win
greater confidence and regard from those
before whom the treasures of a noble and
gentle nature were like pearls cast under the

feet of swine, which only cause the brutes to
turn and rend the giver.

Iris walked in the light of her innocence
and rectitude in the love and fear of God, and
in the honour of all men, unhurt by her harmful
surroundings, one of the strange, sweet,
incontestable answers to the carping, doubting
question, ' Can any good thing come out
of Nazareth T

BY LADY THWAITE's Work-table.

There are women one of the principal objects
of whose lives consists in providing themselves
with fine feathers, and in pluming the
feathers after the wearers have got them.
There are other women among whose chief
aims is that of lining their nests luxuriously
and agreeably, and displaying to envious
neighbours those well-furnished nests. Xot
unfrequently these moods show themselves in
the same women, and rather mark different
stages of development than contrast of inclination
in one person.

Lady Thwaite had married a man old
enough to be her grandfather, without entertaining
for him any of the sentiments of
respect, gratitude, or pity, which could by
the wildest flight of fancy have stood for
parallel sympathies and mutual inclinations.

She was one of a family of many poor pretty
daughters, belonging to the 
widow of a hunting squire-parson, or
squadron ' as the type is sometimes entitled
in Eastham. She hankered after the fleshpots
of Egypt, especially in the shape of fine
feathers, and she saw no other way of procuring
these than by the marriage which she
made.

To do Lady Thwaite justice she was just
the wife old Sir John wanted, with the signal
exception of giving him an heir to live and
flourish after him instead of handing over
Whitehills to degenerated Thwaites. She disappointed
him in nothing else, and she was
reasonably contented with the result she had
achieved. So having accomplished two things
which the world thoroughly approved, done
well for herself, and made the most of her
gains, disdaining either to proclaim to the
public or to whisper to her own heart the
weak points of the situation, she was popular ;
she was regarded as a fairly fortunate woman
and a highly available acquaintance. Unlike
old Lady Fermor in everything else. Lady
Thwaite was like her in this, that both of them
had always dispensed with female friends, and

been perfectly satisfied with acquaintances of
their own sex. Going: back so far as her
girlish days, Lady Thwaite's mother and
sisters had been no more to her than intimate
acquaintances. The point at which the resemblance
broke down was that neither had
Lady Thwaite shown any need of male friends.
Beyond the wide, easy bond of acquaintanceship
 and no woman cultivated more acquaintances
 she had been sufficient for herself.

Mr. Miles, before he left, was as good as
his word, in introducing Sir William to the
former mistress of AVhitehills. She struck an
unsophisticated stranger as a fair-haired woman
with a figure inclined to stoutness, and a fine
presence which was ' stunning ' to him. Her
black silk and crape and white cap set off her
fairness, diminished her stoutness, and caused
her to look younger than she really was. She
received him with ease and friendliness, which
might have been still more cordial if he had
been able to advance half-way to meet her.
There was nothing distressing in her allusions
to Sir John. She spoke of the loss she had
sustained with no more than the quiet gravity
and gentle sadness which the death of so old
a man was calculated to excite in his kindred

of the second generation. She was his widow,
no doubt, as her dress indicated, but only a
widow who had been his contemporary could
have experienced sharp pain or keen desolation
at old Sir John's having passed away before
her, by ever so short a time. Very soon the
conversation took a more cheerful turn, and
Lady Thwaite's social gifts, as a lively woman
of the world, came out to anybody capable of
appreciating her.

The interview had not proved very formidable,
and from the date of the introduction
the gentleman found himself, he could hardly
tell how, in frequent communication with the
lady. He did not like her particularly, though
she was good enough to lay herself out to
please him; but he had a sense that he ought
to feel obliged to her for bearing no grudge
against him after he had turned her out of his
house, and he had an honest wish to serve her.

Lady Thwaite approved of Sir William's
intention and recognised his capabilities of
usefulness. She speedily extracted from him
sundry china jars, a marquetry table, and a
pair of old Dutch leather screens which she
considered would be acquisitions in her
rooms.

jNfetherton was already a wonderfully cosy,
pretty dowager-louse. Lady Thwaite had
kept a careful, fostering eye on it, ever since
she married Sir John, and particularly after
the death of their son. She had moved in the
background, buc not the less successfully
on that account. She had seen that the
house was in perfect repair. She had bestowed
unremitting attention on the improvement of
the grounds. The place was not, and could
not be like AVhitehills. It was only a smallish,
nineteenth-century country house, built in the
earlier years of the century, when bow-windows
were synonymous with light, not shade. The
lawn was almost too like velvet in its pile,
to be spoilt as it often was, to the mortification
of the one adult gardener, by tennis. There
was a carriage drive in the perfection of order,
and a belt of rarer though younger shrubs
and trees than any at Whitehills. Altogether
it was a very different establishment from the
ill-kept, run-out, over-crowded house from
which Lady Thwaite had been led by Sir
John.

The lady, like Mr. Miles, was gratified to
find the representative of the family, whom
she had elected to make her protege  hopefully

docile and tolerably presentable. Yet she
felt a pang in connection with the thing which
had gone nearest her heart, in the whole
course of the deliberately planned, worldly
prosperity of her life. It was the failure
of the hopes with regard to her son.

To think such broad, manly shoulders and
such a resolute mouth should have been given
to a lout, a common soldier, while my boy,
the true heir of Whitehills, was like a thread -
paper and had no more firmness in his poor
loose lips than when he was a senseless baby
was her inaudible cry on the first peep she
got at the new-comer.

But she swallowed the bitterness and was
altogether bland and propitious, finding the
subjects for conversation as became a fair, fat,
well-bred woman, so good-natured and accessible
in her circle that there sometimes crept
out just the faintest suspicion of ladylike
wheedling and cajoling in her attitude.

Lady Thwaite was amused, too, by Sir
William. She liked amusement as well as
profit, and to be amused no less than to confer
amusement. She sometimes split on this rock
in spite of her general judiciousness. Her
consistency was not perfect any more than



the consistency of the rest of the T'orld. She

ft/

could not always steer skilfully between her
so-called Mend and her jest. She had been
known to sacrifice the former to the latter,
though it was an exceptional imprudence.

It was that fresh season of the year when
spring' is still glad, and not yet growing
languid as it passes into the heat of summer.
Chequers of sunshine and shade were women
on the floor of the pleasant room, where the
fire still gleaming on the tiles was tempered
by the open door into the little conservatory,
bringing wafts of fragrance from violets, lilies -
of-the-yalley, and jonquils. A far-away
window open to the garden admitted the
full-throated singing of blackbirds and thrushes
in the early joy of mating. The silvery light
crossing the soft gloom, kindled up here and
there in chair-covers, porters, and cushions,
admirably blended lines of cool blue and
white creon, mellow olive yelyet and dead-gold
plush. There was an effect like the
wavering motion of leaves on the dull reds
and blues, and greens of the Turkey carpet
an ivory-tinted softness and delicacy in the
revived satin-wood with its fine hand-paintings
flowers and fruit, contrasted with the rich

black of ebony in the framework of the piano,
chairs, and settees. Of the pictures on the
sober grey walls, that of old Sir John, padded,
buttoned up, and looking as if he had just
come from successive visits to his barber and
his tailor, was in the merciful shadow ; while
Lady Thwaite's likeness, in the light, showed
her considerately crowned with a small cap,
and draped in a shawl so as not to look
younger than her husband's daughter. There
was also a careful representation of a baby
shrouded in a cloak, not to be superseded by
a bluff or prim little boy sitting on his pony
or standing by his dog, the ordinary style
for the heirs of the family as preserved at
Whitehills.

Though April days invite to dawdling idleness
out of doors, the April sun shone on
manifold signs of busy idleness within the
house. The temperate beams scattered their
selves freely on newspapers and books, a
well-filled music-stand, the paraphernalia of
easel and colour-boxes, and a dainty worktable
containing half a dozen pieces of pretty
work  all of which were necessaries of life to
Lady Thwaite.

Sir William, late private in one of her

Majesty's infantry regiments, remained an
incongruous faire, not at home in such an
entourage. It must be confessed that he Twas
not in himself entertaining, so Lady Thwaite
had therefore ensconced him in one of those
torturing', retreating, subsiding seats of the
second-last fashion, in which no man who
was not to the manner born could have
settled himself otherwise than uncomfortably
and awkwardly. She was talking to him in
her smiling, fluent manner on subjects of
which he could know nothing. If he answered
at all, he must either express the most refreshing
ignorance, or perpetrate the most grotesque
mistakes. She asked him to help her with
the arrangement of some of her silks and
wools, and he did not see how he could refuse
to oblige her by declining to comply with her
demurely-put request. But his proceedings,
while she would take care that they did
no harm to her property, must be more
ludicrous than those of Hercules with
Omphale's spinning-gear ; for Hercules had
the unfettered mien of a demi-god, while
Omphale's establishment was sure to have
been simplicity itself. Sir William's spasmodic
actions in the Atherton drawing-room bore

more resemblance to the uncouth demonstrations
of a bull in a china shop.

 Ah ! there is somebody coming Lady
Thwaite cried, interrupting her little game,
as a shadow crossed the window. ' I believe
it is Iris Compton. Don't go. Sir William,' 
detaining him when he sought to accomplish a
shame-faced retreat. ' You may rise if you
will, that is if you can. Let me give you
my hand. Dear! dear! I must bid Charles
take away these low chairs with their sloping
backs. They are a snare to half the people
who sit down in them. Miss Compton ought
to be one of the belles of the neighbourhood,
though her fine figure is rather slight even
for a girl.' She favoured him with a preparatory
criticism, sitting serene in her own
becoming matronly bountifulness of outline.
\ There is certainly a suspicion of red in her
hair  ill-natured people call it red  and her
face is too small ; it is even inclined to be
chubby. But in spite of trifling defects she
would be one of the county beauties if she
were properly seen. She goes out very little,
however ; her relations are very old and don't
live in the world ; all the same you must
know her like everybody else some day, and I

am charmed that the encounter should take
place here. I am fond of young people meeting
and making themselves at home at
Netherton. It is not so very long since 1 was
young myself, but my youth passed soon
remarked Ladv Thwaite with an echo of
pensiveness in the reflection, pausing as if she
expected to be contradicted, and then going
on with a furtive smile, faintly acidulated, at
the omission of any contradiction, ' Poor dear
Sir John liked the society of his contemporaries,
naturally, and I was only too happy
to accommodate myself to his tastes. It was
no less my pleasure than my duty, and you
cannot think the comfort it is to me to
remember that now. Ah! here she comes.'

Sir William recollected perfectly what he
had heard of Miss Compton and her grandmother,
Lady Fermor. He had struggled out
of the cramping chair, and, as he stood stiffly,
feeling very much in the way, he glanced
up, expecting to see a woman like Lady
Thwaite, but younger. His eyes fell on the
tall, erect figure of a girl like a straight, slim
sapling. She wore a dark blue velveteen
gown and jacket, with a little cap of the same
colour. Beneath it was the loveliest silken

VOL. I. 7

thatch of hair, not unlike his own in hue, but
how different in texture, as it strayed and
curled at its own sweet will! Beneath the
thatch was a line of white forehead and fine
brows, with the rest of a little face lit up by
hazel eyes, half eager, half wise. The round
cheeks were rosy ; still rosier was the delicate
mouth, which had no inherent weakness in
the curve that broke its straight line. She
was smiling upon him, and going through
her part of the introduction as if she liked it,
and wished him well.

He had not seen, he had not so much as
conceived of a beautiful, simply refined girl
like this, with so much of the child in her
that she gave him the sense of being open
and frank as the day. Yet there was something
in her which daunted him, more than he
was impressed by anything in the mature
woman of the world beside him, though when
he was beside Lady Thwaite she had him in
her power, and caused him to do her
behests.

In the presence of a third person Lady
Thwaite was doubly bound to refrain from
the faintest approach to making game of her
kinsman and guest. But she imagined Sir



William did not see what she was about.
Iris Compton was not much of a third person,
while her company enhanced the fun of
the thing to such an extent that Lady Thwaite
could not resist prolonging the joke, were it
only to watch its effect on Iris, and how far
her gravity would stand the strain to which it
was subjected.

Lady Thwaite sought to inveigle Sir
William back into the fellow of the detestable,
cavernous chair. She gravely asked his
opinion of the genuineness of her old Chelsea.
She said Miss Compton would excuse them if
they went on winding their silk, after a scene
in a great English classic which Sir William
must recall.

Iris's carnation cheeks flushed a rosier red.
She started up, as when she ran to the aid of
the unfortunate footman with the gash across
his palm. It was a mental wound which at
this moment called for her aid, and she could
no more withhold it from the second than
from the first sufferer. To be art and part in
hurting anybody's feelings Wilfully and wantonly,
was about as impossible to Iris Compton
as to conspire in dealing a stab with a
knife, or to refrain from seeking to stem the

72

flow of the life-blood. Nay, she went farther
in her sensitiveness  her own feelings were
hurt in the hurt feelings of her neighbours,
with a keenness which was positively painful.
In addition, she endured uncalled-for remorse
and affront as if she were accessory to the
offence.

Iris protested quickly,  No, no. Lady
Thwaite, I can help you far better  Sir
William will forgive me for saying so.
Besides, what has become of the ingenious
winding-machine you showed me the last
time I was here ? Ah ! I see it on the table
in the corner. If you have tired of using it
let me try it.'

She sat down, made the machine fast to the
table, and twirled it round with her light
fingers. She kept up the other ball of small-talk
with Lady Thwaite, making it turn upon
the weather, about which anybody surely
could venture an observation. Then she referred
tentatively to the meteorological signals
from America transmitted across the ocean.
At last diverging adventurously to sea
voyages, she said pleasantly that she believed
Sir William Thwaite was the only person
present who had any experience in that

respect. The manoeuvre was as prettily ingenious
as the winding-machine, without containing
a grain of affability or patronage.

He could not help answering the bright
appeal. He said he had made two voyages,
the one in rough and the other in fine weather,
and he could not help thinking she  the
ladies before him  would have liked the sea
and the great steamer after they had grown
accustomed to the motion of the vessel.

Lady Thwaite, restored to her good behaviour,
professed an ardent interest in porpoises,
albatrosses, and flying-fish, as if each
belonged by right to the other, jumbling the
whole together in a somewhat astounding;
fashion for so clever and fully-equipped a
woman.

Then more visitors came in whom Lady
Thwaite went to entertain, while Miss
Compton stayed for a few minutes talking to
Sir William. She set him at his ease in the
simplest, kindest manner. She made him feel
that he was the conveyed to her of some unsophisticated,
graphically given descriptions of
wonderful places where she had never been
and was never likely to be. He was able to
tell her particulars worth hearing of the

HoogUy and the Sunderland, the Ganges
and the Ghauts, Delhi and Benares, and faraway
Afghanistan.

Suddenly he broke off and startled her with
the mute eloquence of those dark-blue eyes of
his, before he began to speak on a totally
different theme. He was so stirred and roused
by her sweetness and fellow-feeling that he
was moved to confide in her.

I have not read much,' he said modestly,
mostly travels and histories of campaigns
such as they provide for fellows in barracks;
but I have been turning over some of the
Whitehills books since I came here  stories
and that kind of stuff. I think I know the
book and picture Lady Thwaite referred to.
But if I am like that nabob fellow  though I
have not brought home shawls and muslins
and fine stones  how can she compare herself
to the woman who tried to take him in ?'

Oh, she did not mean to carry out the
comparison; she was not in earnest,' said Iris,
colouring, very much in earnest herself, to reassure
him and to withdraw if possible the
sting fi'om the absurd simile. ' Thackeray is
so popular that a trifle recalls his famous
scenes, don't you see ?'

He did see that she was good to him. Was
she one of those fine young ladies  as good
as she was fine  of whom Jen had spoken ?
But if so, she was only the farther removed
fi:om him. Whatever her grandmother might
be, these lips of hers looked as if they had
never spoken an unbecoming word, while his
bad been soiled by the coarse language of the
barrack-yard and the ale-house. He was surprised
that he could have taken it upon him
to speak to her ; yet here again she was in
her innocent ignorance asking him more
questions about punkahs and howdahs,
elephants and tigers, and pretending interest
in his answers, so that he could not reply
shortly and evasively.

Lady Thwaite cast a doubtful, inquiring
look at the couple.

Can that girl be making a dead set at my
Sir William? Did I ruffle that gentleman .
Has he got on so fast that his pride has to be
studied ? My humblest apologies to him ; my
bear is learning to dance. It is the first time
she has seen him. If it were anyone else I
should know what to think ; but Iris Compton
is half a goose, half a saint, and she may just
as well leave her settlement in life to that formidable

grandmother of hers, who will never
suffer another finger  not that of the person
principally concerned  in the pie.'

He rode home wondering if he should ever
see Iris Compton again, and assuring himself
that it did not signify in the very least
whether he did or not. She was a creature
made of another clay. He was a fallen spirit
beside her. In her beauty, which he compared
to that of an angel, and her tenderness
of heart she could feel compassion for his
degradation and for his miserably false
position ; but as to drawing nearer to her, the
step was impossible, and he would die sooner
than take advantage of her. Yet apart from
so gross an abuse of her charity, he had a
notion that he could have gone on speaking to
her, enticed by her gentle encouragement 
even telling her of Jen and Lawrie and beseeching
her forgiveness as if he had sinned
against her in his sins against them, and in
his rough falls  begging for counsel and
guidance in the troubled life which lay before
him.

Iris Compton drove back to Lambford and
went to her grandmother with the scrap of
news she would care to hear.

I have met Sir William Thwaite, grand-mamma.
He was with Lady Thwaite at
Netherton when I called,' she addressed a
wizened mummy in an envelope of sealskin
drawn over a quilted woollen dressing-gown,
hugging her dressing-room fire, but turning
on the speaker a pair of the keenest, most
undimmed, cat-like eyes that were ever sunk
in the puckered, fallen-in face of a human
being who had seen more than eighty summers
and winters.

You were in luck, child,' said the old lady,
propitiated by the offering. ' What was the
ogre like ?'

He was not very bio,' answered Iris with
momentarily stupid literalness, puzzled at the
same time to give a description that would
satisfy her grandmother. ' He seemed a good
sort of young man. He was homespun certainly,
but he did not assume anything. I
rather liked him.' Then she went on with a
great deal more animation. ' I don't think
Lady Thwaite was behaving well to him.
She was amusing herself at his expense when
I went in, and she wished me to join in the
amusement. From what he said afterwards,
I think he saw what she was about. I hope

it was not officious in me to try and stop it,
but I could not stay and look on and laugh
in my sleeve, as she meant me to do.'

Lady Fermor did not care either for what
her granddaughter had thought or done,
though these were exactly the points which
would have baulked largely in the minds of
most mothers and grandmothers. She was
only interested in Lady Thwaite and Sir
William.

Just like Ada Thwaite,' she began, with
an impatient snort ; ' always taking her own
in the way of diversion when she cannot take
it in more solid coin, picking the parvenvJs
pockets, no doubt, and in the act showing
him up to the polite world.'

But she is very good-natured,' remonstrated
Iris, beginning to repent of her own
censure ; ' she put herself about to chaperon
me to the hunt-ball before Sir John's death,
and she drove all round by Cavesham the
other day, to ask at the station for your
parcel, which was supposed to have been left
there.'

She is as fond of company as the youngest
chit she professes to take care of ; and she
wanted an excuse to call and hear what I

had to say about the bumpkin Baronet. She
thouohl I mio'ht remember something of Tried
Dicky Thwaite ; but though I have met one of
his nephews, he had done for himself and left
this part of the country" long before I came toit.
I suppose she will imagine I saw Noah
go into the ark next. You have never told
me what the man is like.'

He seemed a good sort of young man,'
repeated Iris not very clearly.

Lady Fermor gave another snort.

That is nothing to the purpose, unless
you thought of engaging him for a footman,'
she said ironically. ' I conclude you know a
man when you see him. Is he a fine-looking
fellow inter his rough rearing ? or is he a
cut below being polished ? I have known
the day when I should not have had to take
at second-hand the report of any young spark
in my neighbourhood.'

* I think he is rather nice-looking  I should
say so  yes, I am sure ; he has good eyes,'
hesitated Iris, growing confused under the
cross-examination and the certainty of giving
fresh offence. Conscious, too, alas ! that,
though she had shared in the lively curiosity
of the neighbourhood, still, after the first

glance, she had not bestowed the most careful
inspection on Sir William's outer man.

You will tell me next that he has a nose
and mouth like other people,' cried Lady
Termor scornfully, ' and that he speaks when
he is spoken to. But I will judge of Sir
William Thwaite for myself. I shall drive
over and leave Lord Fermor's card, and then
invite the man to a family dinner. He is our
nearest neighbour, and we have not too many
available neighbours ; only old fogies and
young scamps out-at-elbows, and long-faced
hypocrites. I don't know what has become
of all the honest, open-hearted, open-handed
fellows I knew when I was young.'

SIR William's first rA:iiLY dinner.

Lady Termor was as good as her word. She
left Lord Terror's card, she invited Sir
William, and, although he had refused other
invitations, he accepted this, drawn by an attraction
he fought against in vain.

The old woman may not be too particular,'
Sir William brooded ; ' if all is true that is
said of her, she ought not to be. But Miss
Compton will not look twice at a clod-hopper
at worse than a clod-hopper, a wild, senseless
brute when I was drunk. By George, if
she heard of what happened at Xihlpoor  that
I rubbed shoulders with the lash, the next
thing to rubbing shoulders with the gallows!
How dare I go where she is ? What if I
were found out, and kicked out, as I deserve
to be ?'

He went, however, committing the presumption,
and braving the risk.

Lambford had been an old house not unlike
Whitehills, but, in an evil hour for architectural
harmony, Lord Fermor had built an
addition to the house in the utmost discordance
with the original, and in the worst possible
taste. He had tacked on a new wing
twice as high and half a dozen times as ornamental
as the main body of the building. The
entrance, by a great flight of stairs, penetrated
this wing, and in this favourite quarter were
the public rooms, with their ceilings at such
an altitude that the size of the apartments did
not keep them from looking like telescopes.
As much light as the season permitted poured
between the curtains of rows of great windows
extending from the floor midway to the ceiling.
Huge heavy marble chimney-pieces surmounted
the great grates of polished steel.
When Lady Fermor came to Lambford she
had caused the principal rooms to be refurnished
according to her theory. This was,
if a man wanted a handsome dining-room and
drawing-room  and if they were not handsome,
what were they ?  bid him go in for
good bright colours, massiveness of form, and

plenty of carving. Above all, don't let him
grudge plate-glass and gilding. She hated
the dim, dirty tints that people pretended to
admire nowadays. And as for lattice panes
of green glass, worm-eaten chests and cupboards,
rickety rush-bottom chairs, and blinking
wax candles instead of paraffine lamps, she
would not harbour such trash in her garrets.
Lambford had been a place to strike the eye
when she ordered its upholstery. It had been
as magnificent as some of the saloons she had
seen in Paris. She admitted the gilding had
become tarnished, and the gorgeous colours in
the big patterns had parted with much of their
splendour ; but the solid mahogany, walnut,
and rosewood, and the colossal mirrors had
worn well, and would last her time. For true
superbness of style recommend her to the era
which reflected the influence of the first gentleman
in Europe, George Prince Regent.

Sir William Thwaite was certainly impressed
when he was shown into the loud,
loaded, once-costly drawing-rooms, where
there was not a particle of evidence of culture
beyond an appetite for barbaric weight and
glitter, and where the worn, smirched traces
of age brought no kindly air of family use

and wont  no sense of domestic charities.
Lady Fermor had presided with spirit all her
own over a great house, but she had never
made it a home. Lord Fermor, who had been
born and spent his youth there, had no homelike
feeling attached to the place, except what
belonged to a shut-up portion of the older half
of the house, to his private sitting-room and
the billiard-room, and to the stables and the
kennels, when he was still able to frequent
them. Iris was the single member of the
household, out of the servants' hall, who had
found a home at Lambford ; but her home
was centred in the old schoolroom, which she
was allowed to keep for her morning and
working-room, and her white, dimity-hung
bedroom.

To Sir William's uninitiated eyes Lambford
looked as grand as a palace  not so far removed
in its atmosphere, barren of sensual,
unselfish aims, and pure disinterested affections,
from some of the marvellous Indian
palaces which he had visited, while it was not
in a palace like this that he would have expected
to meet a princess like Iris Compton.
On the whole, mock | palace as it was till Iris
came in, he knew himself less out of his old

element than he had been conscious of feeling
in Lady Thwaite's drawing-room. Lady
Termor, with her strong passions unbridled
in the violence of their prime, her long expatriation
from any save the fastest and
shadiest society, had forfeited in a large
measure any claims she had ever possessed to
gentle bearing. She was not very different,
except in accent and phrase, from the coarse,
untrammelled queens of some of the .


But to do Lady Fermor justice, there were
other reasons why Sir AYilliam should feel at
ease with her. All that was most honest and
least vindictive in her nature, came out when
she encountered simple youthful manhood, as
the best in many bad women is shown where
little children are in question. Men had
always exercised far more influence over Lady
Fermor than women ; and it is just possible
that if she had come in contact with better
men when she began her career, if she had even
borne a son in her younger days, she might
have been a very imperfect but a far less
guilty woman than she had lived to prove
herself.

She had Sir William brought up to her sofa,
VOL. I. 8

where she sat by the side of a blazing fire with
her Indian shawl wrapped round the bent,
shrunk figure which had once been that of a
tall woman, while the yellow old lace of her
ruffles and head-dress flapped about her
shrivelled hands and creased and crumpled
face. She looked him through as he came upto
her, and then she rose with the slow stiffness
of her years ; but there was no stiffness
in the cordial tones of the cracked but still
resounding voice with which she greeted him,
as her young neighbour and friend.

She bid him sit down beside her, and began
to talk of horses and dogs, of which in truth
he did not know much. But as most young
men have at their command some sort of
vocabulary where these interesting lower
animals are concerned, and as she led the
conversation, the circumscribed character of
his information did not become conspicuously
apparent. She went on to farming, of which
Mr. Miles had been talking to the Squire of
Whitehills, and on which his mind had been
naturally dwelling a good deal, since he came
to the place. Lady Fermor in ruling for her
lord had done a considerable amount of high-handed
farming for him. She was quite com-pet

en t to speak on the rotation of crops, on
shorthorns, South Downs, and Berkshire pigs.
And her listener would have followed her
vigorous if one-sided details with comprehension
and tolerable interest, if his attention had
not been distracted by the obligation of listening
for a coming footstep, varied by an aroused,
disturbed apprehension  since he was not
acquainted with the habits of the dwellers in
these regions  that Miss Compton might not
appear or dine with him and her grandmother,
as he had counted upon her doing.

At last Iris came in, advanced straight to
him, and with an outstretched hand and her
eyes raised to his face said, without the slightest
semblance of insincerity, that she was very
glad to see him. At that moment he felt as if
it would have been a relief if she had stayed
away, he was so dazzled by the vision before
him, and mingled with the dazzling there was
so little self-assurance and so much trepidation
 approaching to discomfiture. He had
seen ladies in full dress as he had seen feasts
before, but both had . been at a distance, and
with not the most remote idea of holding companionship
with the ladies any more than of
partaking of aught save the broken meat of

82

the feast. Besides, he had never seen any ladylike
Iris Compton.

Lady Fermor did not approve of the change
in the style of dress for girls, which has marked
the close of the century, any more than of the
odd transformations in furniture. In the
former case the impetus is in the opposite
direction. There is no childish, mawkish affectation,
or crazy, hare-brained rusticity there.
But to waste silks and satins, ay and velvets,
for every night in the year, on chits who had
not attained the promotion of a wealthy marriage
or even of a promising engagement,
appeared to the old lady the height of extravagant
folly. Youth did not need much decking
out, and what became of one of the principal
factors in a girl's making a sensible marriage
if she had not line clothes to look forward to ?
She might well relax in her good behaviour.
Better give her a house and servants and
carriages at her command at once, than leave
her to refuse the rich manwho did her the favour
to make her an offer, and accept the beggar who
took her silly fancy. It made no difference to
Lady Fermor that Iris was not particularly
fond of fine clothes. The matron acted on
the broad ground of the principle involved.

Iris wore an Indian muslin with a little
bunch of blue field hyacinths at her throat,
agreeing with the turquoise brooch that fastened
them, the turquoise earrings and bracelets,
and the turquoises set in the handle of her
Ivory fan. But Sir William's breath was
taken away by the look of the slender slip of
a girl in the soft white zephyr-like dress,
which seemed to suit her entirely, with the
touches of blue, like scattered flowers of the
forget-me-not, setting off her white skin, the
vermilion in her lips and complexion, and the
auburn of her hair  above all, the innocent
youthfulness of her face.

Sir William felt abashed by the fair sight.
He shrank secretly from the notion that he
might be ' paired ' with her, which seemed to
him not unlikely from their similarity in age,
and because there were no other young people
present. He was not aware that his rank and
importance as a stranger awarded Lady Fermor
to him, and that Iris was destined, as a matter
of course, to the only other guest present, a
middle-aged Major Pollock from Knotley.

Lord Fermor, though in fact younger in
years than his wife, was too feeble to take his
place at table. The company formed a partie

carries somebody said, which was a statement
as mysterious as any sentence in a Chaldean
manuscript to Sir William ; but He swallowed
it with courageous stolidity, as he did many
more things. He sat at the right hand of
Lady Fermor, and continued to hear her
opinions on farm stock and the grain markets.
He was not asked to carve. Her ladyship had
accepted a fashion which chimed in with the
disqualifications that had long been invading
the powers of the host and hostess of Lamb-ford.
Everything was carved at the sideboard.
There was actually nothing to disturb the
guest, whom her ladyship delighted to honour,
in his proper business of dining and listening
to his companion, unless he let his eyes and
thoughts stray to the couple opposite. He
had conceived an instant aversion to Major
Pollock, which subsequent inquiries justified.
He was a gentleman of decidedly objectionable
antecedents, whose only merit, if it could be
called a merit, was that, when a young man,
he had stood by Lady Termor in the miserable
crisis of her history. She boasted that she
never forgot an old friend, therefore Pollock
continued an habitude of the house, though, in
this instance, the wicked had not flourished

like a green bay-tree. The Major had played
what might have been a pleasant, but what
had also been an unmistakably losing game
throughout the greater part of his life. His
unveiled sins were not of such a remote date
as to have sunk into partial oblivion like Lady
Termor's ; one especially  an affair at a London
club, which his fellowmen had elected to
be of an asofravated character, and had insisted
on reoardinof with righteous indignation  had
very nearly done for the gentleman. This
was true even in the wilds of Eastham, to
which he had returned with his fallen fortunes,
setting up a bachelor's household  fastidious
only on the grand questions of meat and drink
in a house which belonged to his family, in
the market town of Knotley.

All these parings of biography Sir William
picked up and fitted together later. His dislike
to his vis-advise with his burly person,
exceedingly black hair, twirled moustache,
and crows' toes, was purely instinctive. Sir
William had not even the excuse of finding
Major Pollock on a detestably friendly footing
with Miss Compton, such as the gentleman's
freedom of the house and the unceremonious
terms he was on with Lady Fermor might

have warranted. It was clear that even Miss
Compton's unsophisticatedness and good-nature
rebelled against the mingled leer and
sneer which constituted Major Pollock's odious
expression where women were concerned. She
looked as if she had an uneasy sense  similar
to the old pricking of the thumbs  of something
evil, beyond her power to cope with and
remedy, in her vicinity. Even a neophyte
could not mistake the constrained civility of
her bearing to her partner at table. He submitted
to take his cue from her, probably with
the sullen, cowed notion that Lady Fermor,
who kept all that remained of her graceless
satellites well in hand, approved of her granddaughter's
conduct in this particular, and did
not choose that a notorious black sheep should
approach too closely to the girl, with the
danger of sullying her white unimpeachable-ness.


The contre temps of the evening occurred
when Sir William drew back his glass, a third
time, as it was about to be filled.

What is it. Sir William ?' cried the old
woman of the world, puzzled, through all her
accumulated knowledge, at this marked instance
of abstinence. ' If you will not have

Chateau Marivaux, try Lafitte or Madeira ; ordo
you prefer dry Champagne ? We must
have some brand that will suit you. Let me
help you myself.'

Thank you, my lady said the incorrigible
Sir William, not troubled by the form of
address, but shoeing symptoms of agitation at
the hospitable contention which he foresaw
awaited him, and which was inexpressibly
painful to him, ' I don't drink any thing except
water ; I never do.'

Xot drink anything except water I' exclaimed
Lady Fermor, in so high a key as to
have attracted the attention of the whole party
if it had been otherwise eno;ao;ed, and not
lying in wait for any general discussion. ' I
have heard that the old, under-bred temperance
movement is spreading in odd quarters, and
making the noise in the world which empty
tomfoolery always makes. Acton,' naming
her rector, ' has taken it up  Bands of Hope,
coffee-houses and all, " for the good of his
working-men," he says, as if his working-women
never entered an alehouse, or as if his
claret has anything to do with their beer.
But you are not a parson ; there is no earthly
call for you to serve as an example.'

Itis not that; it is my own look-outs he
stammered bluntly, fidgeting and crimsoning,
thinking that he was badgered, and conscious
that his temper was rising, but striving to
bridle it in such a presence; ' a friend made
me promise '

 Oh, bother such promises V interrupted
Lady Fermor, with impatient scorn; ' I
wonder you pay heed to such stuff. Some
officious idiot has taken advantage of you.'

While he listened  amidst what seemed to
him the splendour of the Lambford dining-table,
with its blaze of lights, its glittering
silver and crystal, its sweet flowers and dainty
cheer  there rose up before him the interior
of a soldier's hut, and the spectacle of Jen,
worn out by her efforts to save him, pleading
with her last gasp that he might redeem himself
from destruction.

His manners had not that repose which
stamps the caste of Yere de Yere. He lost
command over himself. His blue eyes
sparkled like steel. ' I will do as I choose in
what is nobody's business save my own,' he
shouted, looking round him fiercely ; ' and
whatever you or other gentlefolks may think
of promises, by God, I will keep mine !'

He brought down his clenched hand with
violence on the table.

The effect of a sudden thunderclap so loud
as to warrant the suspicion that the house
had been struck, might have borne some resemblance
to the shock Sir William produced.
Lady Fermor, possibly for the first time in
her long life, sat open-mouthed, with her shaking
hand arrested on its road to a bottle, which
a servant was presenting to her, l3g orthodoxly
on its side.

Major Pollock swore a private oath, which
had to do with a ' canting brute,' champed
his moustache to prevent an audible ' Haw !
haw!' or a snarling reminder of his warning
of what might come of ladies having anything
to do with the scum of a barrack-yard such ashe
had known, even though this man had been
discovered to represent a baronet and squire.

Iris looked half fiio'htened, but her eves
shone.

The servants, not unaccustomed to extraordinary
demonstrations at Lambford, preserved
their composure, though they were
posed by a novelty.

Sir William, who had become as pale as he
had been red, rose to his feet. ' I have to beg

everyone's pardon if I have given offence and
been insufferably rude,' be said, with proud
humility, inadvertently glancing across at
Iris. * Everybody knows what I am come
from, that I have grown up a rough chap,
unfit for such company.'

Lady Fermor interrupted him. She had
been looking him through again, and now
she put her weak hand, with an imperative
gesture, on his arm, as a signal to him to sit
down again. ' My dear boy  you will suffer
the word from an old woman,' she said, a little
hoarsely  ' let the matter rest. You shall
never be interfered with again, though you
should take it into your head to eat pulse as
well as to drink water. I could have wished,
for your own sake, you had not adopted this
freak, for it will be against your making your
way in the county, You see I speak plainly
in defence of my opinions, though plenty of
people will tell you they are not worth defending.
But the affair is your own, as you say.
If anybody is called on to apologize for getting
up a row, I think I ought to figure as the
guilty person. But I have lived more than
eighty years a sinner instead of a saint, so
what would you have?'

Nothing, nothing,' he protested incoherently;
' you can't suppose that I want you
to excuse yourself, that I did not guess you
meant kindly by me, or that I sought to
dictate  save the mark !  to anybody.'

Well, then, we'll let the argument drop
and the dinner go on in peace,' said Lady
Fermor, with the quickly restored philosophy
of a once practised judge of appeal in dinner
and card-table squabbles.

THE Caen-TABLES.

Lady Feemok showed no diminution of
favour to Sir William because of the sharp
skirmish that had followed his introduction to
her house. She would never have forgiven a
woman for persistent opposition to her will,
and the consequent outrage on conventional
good manners. Lady Termor had never
either forgiven or forgotten the manner in
which Iris had learnt Miss Burrage's creed
and stood by it, though the grandmother had
seen fit to ignore and shelve the useless
struggle. She would have treated any
woman's scruples with withering contempt,
even though she had been forced to give way
to them. But her estimate of men had always
been as far apart as the poles from her judgment
of women. She liked men to have wills
of their own; those were rather feathers in

their caps than otherwise in her eyes. She
had always granted men license. She would
even permit them to be virtuous and Metho-deistical
 was it possible for forbearance in
such a woman to go farther, without detesting
and despising them. And she still craved
their regard for herself.

When she rose from the table she took Sir
William's arm, availing herself of his support
instead of her old ally's aid, or her granddaughter's
shoulder, or her own stick, to help
her to reach the drawing-room, where she still
kept her new friend by her side. She improved
on her lectures on agriculture by presenting
him with sketches  pungent, though
kept thin bounds  drawn from her circle of
neighbours.

Once Major Pollock tried to strike in with
a malicious inquiry whether Sir William still
interested himself in military matters. The
public found men in every branch of the service
favouring it with their experience nowadays.
It might be worth while to get Sir
William's opinion on recruits, or rations, or
the like. Major Pollock felt sure it would
carry weight, and would receive all the attention
it deserved.

Sir William had from the first looked
askance at the half-pay officer, who, by the
way, had never seen more distant regimental
quarters than were to be found in Ireland.
The man appealed to knit his brows in perplexity
and annoyance. But Lady Fermor
promptly interposed, and put a stop to the
cross-examination. She was more than a
match for a creature like Pollock, and she
would show him, what he should have for his
impertinence in daring to plague any person
she protected.

We will have no shop talked here, Pollock,'
she said with grim decision. ' Indeed, your
theories must be so antiquated, and, if I am
not mistaken, some of your recollections of
your old regiment so disagreeable, that I recommend
you not to attempt to compare notes
with Sir William here or anywhere ;' a significant
reminder which caused the gentleman to
retreat with a scowl.

Tea and coffee were brought in. Major
Pollock read the newspapers sulkily. Iris
flitted like a white butterfly through the great
gorgeous room.

Play or sing something, child,' cried her
grandmother; and then from the grand piano,

massive like the rest of the furniture, though
the march of time had reached the instrument
in its corner, there issued for the intruder not
the bravura strains which the once strong
fingers of Lady Fermor had forced from the
cracking strings, but the music of the spheres
wistfully rising and softly falling and dying
away; songs with words and without words,
by Schubert and Mendelssohn, Chopin's passionate,
pathetic Polish mazurkas, quaint
tender ballads by unknown singers in the
far-ofi", misty past. He on whose ear every
note thrilled, would sooner have faced the
cannon's mouth hot with the death warrants
of battle, than approached uninvited the
girlish figure behind the heavy barricade,
even though he had been freed fi-om Lady
Fermor's detention.

Though Lord Fermor could no looser take
the foot of his table at dinner, he tottered into
the drawing-room on the arm of his valet.
The peer was a bent wreck of a man. with
lack-lustre eyes, and a tongue which still
wagged at intervals, no doubt, but had ceased
to be under the sure control of the brain. He
looked so pitiable an object, that Sir William
sprang up, as if he, a young man in his

VOL. I. 9

strength, were fain to salute age in its last
mournful decay.

Come along, Fermor,' cried Lady Termor
in what had been her view-halloo voice, ' you
are as fresh as a daisy to-night. Well have
you following the hounds again, one of these
fine days.

 If you say so, my lady,' piped Lord
Fermor in his thin treble, showing his toothless
gums, with the ghost of a smile for the
woman who had been his ruin, and was his
last stay, ' then it must be all right. But
where are the card-tables ?'

Cards were the sole means of excitement
remaining to the couple, who had drunk other
sources to their polluted dregs in their day.
To do the two justice, it was more for a necessary
stimulant, than from an unholy greed of
gain, that Lambford had acquired its last bad
name for play. Lord Termor's encumbered
rent-roll was still more than enough for their
fast diminishing expenses, and would last
their time, while Iris was the only descendant
of the two to profit by their acquisitions.
There was an heir to the barony and entailed
estate who was a nephew of the present Lord
Fermor, his first wife having died childless.

But though the reigning peer and his second
wife consented to accept Mr. Mildmay's tardy
overtures, the master and mistress of Lambford
cared nothing for their successor, naturally.
They regarded him as looking out for their
deaths, and taking stock of what was to come
to him, every time be showed his face at his
future place.

Major Pollock had thrown down his paper
to be ready for action, though he received no
further encouragement from his host than a
peevish, scantily civil 

Dear me. Pollock, have you ventured out
in this east wind ? I rather wonder at you,
but since you are here, you'll help us with
some game or other.'

All of us have not your privileges. Lord
Termor,' said Major Pollock dryly, ' but it is
always something to be of use.'

'I am afraid to ask if you play cards. Sir
William,' said Lady Fermor, with the dullest
suspicion of timidity, which was yet perfectly
sincere, in her voice and manner, as she spoke
to her next neighbour in a tone half doubtful,
half-insinuating.

I have played,' he admitted, ' but I may
not know any of your games.'

92

Imported man cliei\ I will teach you she
said gayly.

No, Pollock, you are to have nothing todo
with the lesson,' she interposed peremptorily,
to prevent a quick movement of the
Major in their direction ; ' Sir William is to
be my pupil and my opponent when he has
learnt his lesson, do you hear? I don't want
any interference with the course of instruction
which I propose to give him.'

Very well. Lady Fermor, you shall make
your little game,' said Major Pollock, retreating
with a shrug and the beginning of a snarl
worked off by the relief of delivering an
unpleasant double entendre ' I may as well
take myself off, and face the east wind which
has incurred Termor's displeasure, since I
cannot even have the comfort of finding myself
usefuL'

Bosh, Pollock,' exclaimed the old lady,
who belonged to the generation of women that
had taken delight in addressing men freely by
their surnames. In fact she was even now
dropping the formal ' Sir William,' and, somewhat
to his surprise, calling her newest fancy,
 Thwaite,' as his old comrades' wives had
done. She was not out of humour. She had

just been propitiated by Sir William's concession
to card-jDlajing. She despised to make
amends to her old ally. ' You are not going
to set up being thin-skinned at this time of
the day,' she rallied him; 'you know I don't
like my lord to play without me at his elbow,
since he is not equal to too much excitement,
and wants me to keep him in order, don't
you, Fermor ? But there, you may tackle
him to-night, and Iris will help him with his
cards.'

Thanks,' said Major Pollock. ' It will bean
unequal match ; I shall have to put forth
all my skill against the combined forces of
Lord Fermor and Miss Compton. Besides,
don't you think '  he passed behind her chair
and dropped the words into her ear  * it is late
in the day for me to begin to play the parts of
dry nurse and keeper?'

She frowned with rising wrath, but she
shook her fan at him the next moment, ' You
are a queer creature. You have gone on
finding; fault with the side on which your
bread was buttered, ever since I have known
you, and as that is neither to-day nor yesterday,
I fancy I must put up with you to the
end.'

Sir William ran the most imminent risk of
convincing Lady Termor, against her will,
that he was a blockhead of the first water, for
the same couple that had threatened to play
ducks and drakes with his powers of attention
and response during dinner, formed part of a
trio, with only two little tables between him
and them. Major Pollock, whose sight was
failing, sat turned to one side in order to catch
the full light from the lamp on its stand just
behind him. He did not serve as a screen to
shut out the view of Miss Compton and her
grandfather from the furtive gazer. Dewy
youth and decrepit age sat side by side, as Iris
marshalled her grandfather's cards, put them
into his fumbling hands to play out in their
order, and marked his numbers for him. She
devoted all her care to Lord Fermor, as if
she would look as little as possible at their
antagonist.

Major Pollock did not play with the scornful,
reckless indifference that he might not have
taken the trouble to conceal, had there not
been golden stakes on which his eyes gloated ;
for he was a broken-down gentleman, up to
the neck in difficulties as everybody knew.
But Iris did not wish him to have her grandfather's

money. Major Pollock made her very
angry by the want of feeling and reverence
with which he took off, every now and then,
the scarcely conscious old man's pitiable weaknesses,
turning them almost openly into merciless
ridicule. She believed he dared not
have done it, if Lady Fermor had been 
enough to see what he was about, but
he dared to do it before her  Iris, in mean
revenge for beg set down to play this poor
little game of bezique instead of being allowed
to play a higher game.

As a rule, Iris was not called on to assist at
any of the Lambford card-tables unless when
her grandfather and grandmother were alone,
when they strictly limited their necessarily
tame diversion to taking from Peter to give to
Paul. It was the first battle she had fought
on her own  that is on her grandfather's account
 against an unscrupulous adversary.
She regarded the field as unworthy, but she
stood by her guns and showed no want of
courage and determination. Young as she
was, the protective instinct was already strong
in her. All that Sir William understood of
the pantomime, was that Iris's little face was
flushed, and her lovely bow of a mouth

straightened and compressed. If he could
only have seen beneath the soft, fine rings
curling like a child's hair on her forehead, he
would have discovered that the big brow
which ought to have been smooth as ivory,
was ruffled and rumpled with intentness and
vexation.

The young man could not imagine that the
girl cared any more than he did for the little
heap of sovereigns with which, at Lady Fer-mor's
suggestion, he and she had also adorned
their table. Any former experience he had
enjoyed in this line, had been in trials of
chance of a nature little better than pitch-andros,
and in betting on such races as some of
his officers had managed to get up even in
India. His losses had never been so deadly
as to imbue either him or Jen with a horror
of the propensity. But he could see that Miss
Compton had enough to try her, for not merely
was her grandfather inclined to be aimlessly
restive and to remonstrate without any distinct
notion of what he objected to, with regard
to every card she sought out, and number she
marked between the deals, Lord Fermor's
clouded memory invariably reverted to an
awkward subject of inquiry. ' Who is the

youngster playing with your grandmother,
girl ?' he demanded irritably, over and over
again. He spoke as if the knowledge had
been wilfully and injuriously withheld from
him, and Iris had to hasten to reply in a succession
of explanations delivered, with regard
to Lord Termor's deafness, in full earshot of
the object of his curiosity. She bit her lips,
and looked in an opposite direction, as she
kept saying every time, ' It is Sir William
Thwaite, grandpa.'

*And who the mischief is Sir William
Thwaite ? never heard of him in all my days,'
grumbled the insatiable questioner.

Oh, Sir William who has succeeded old
Sir John, and has lately come to Whitehills.'

What ! Is Sir John dead ? Why have I
never heard of it? Who the dickens will o
next, I wonder?'

She would not laugh, because Major Pollock
was grinning maliciously without scruple or
disguise. And if that grin were observed,
either by Lord Fermor or Sir William, it might
be enough to exasperate the innocent offender
into a frenzy, or to cover the still more innocent
victim with confusion of face, without her
conspiring to increase the misfortune. She

bore the assaults on her patience and temper
wonderfully, but at last her girlish gravity
gave way; yet even in yielding to the irresistible
provocation, she did not join in Major
Pollock's lauoh. She looked across with half-shy
frankness and laughed a deprecating appeal
to Sir William, who coloured to the roots of
his hair as he smiled slowly back to her. She
was like an angel, Sir William vowed, with a
swelling heart, and he was inspired and emboldened
to take a step on which he would
not have ventured earlier. When the game
was finished and everybody rose, he happened
to be standing near Iris for a moment. In
that moment he had ' the impudence,' as he
called it afterwards, to speak to her for a
second time aside, to beg her pardon specially.

I am sorry for what took place during
dinner,' he muttered. ' Lady Fermor has been
good enough to look over it, but I behaved
like a sulky brute.'

She glanced up at him with a light kindling
in her hazel eyes, her face grew grave, but it
was very gentle and sweet in its womanly
gravity. She spoke with generous impulsiveness,
' Don t apologise, I am sure you did
quite right.'

The Greek Iris was said to cut the last strand
of human destiny, to refresh the parched earth
by pouring down rivers of waters from the
lowering clouds, and then to glorify them
with all the colours of the rainbow. But this
English Iris unwittingly knotted instead of
cutting a terrible tangle in a poor mortal's
career, poured out the beginning of a flood
of trouble and sorrow on his devoted head,
and then shone above him in incomparable
radiance, as if that could have brought any
balm to his woes.

LADY Fervor's NEIGHBOURLY WAYS.

The squires of Eastham did their part by Sir
William Thwaite. They all paid their respects
to him and held out the right hand of fellowship
to him, declaring that he was not nearly
so bad as they had expected, and that now he
was ' Sir William and all that,' the past had
better be forgotten and he should be treated
as if he had been born, cradled, and schooled
in the purple. It would be hard to say
exactly what the squires had expected, or
what they thought of themselves. Some of
them were clownish enough to this day, and
not without wild ways of their own in their
out-of-the-Avay retreats, though they had worn
pink coats, sworn over grouse, handled old
plate, swaggered in dining-rooms and dozed
in drawing-rooms, ever since the middle-aged
men were boys.

But of Sir William's fellow squires and
nearest neighbours, every one was too old to
be a natural companion for him. The way
of the modem world and the poverty of East-ham
rendered it impossible that the county
should support a population of young men of
the higher rank. These lads, including the
heirs of estates, were all drafted off betimes
into regiments or ships, to eat their dinners
in the Temple, to wear white surplices and be
petted or pitied as curates, even to figure in
the upper walks of trade in the larger mercantile
towns, or to make shift in the colonies.
The absentees who could turn up at set
seasons only fluttered home like the birds the
young men came to shoot in September, or,
like the children and schoolboys at Christmas,
or on any private emergency, or demonstration
in the visitors' respective families. What
remained permanently was a small residue of
half-pacers, pretenders to a better position
than they were entitled to, scampish yoimo-
fellows of whom nothing could be made, who
took their cue from Major Pollock when they
were within hail of Knotley. Some of these
promising young people were supposed to be
trying better class farming or brewing, since

there was a great brewery in Knotley, while
they plagued the hearts out of their unfortunate
parents or all who were responsible for
the delinquents.

With both the old and the young sets
representing the squirearchy, Sir William
Thwaite's total abstinence, in drinking only
water or tea, was, as Lady Fermor had easily
prognosticated, a great stumbling-block to
familiar intercourse and social intimacy. A
rumour spread abroad that Sir William had
made a vulgar clamour in refusing to drink
wine at Lady Fermor' s table, where the
choicest vintages had been wont to flow in
bucketfuls. Lady Fermor had condoned the
offence for her own ends, but her neighbours,
who might not have the same inducement,
did not feel inclined to excuse the outrage.
The most sober of the elder men did not
scruple to declare that total abstinence was
suspicious and ominous, not to say bad form.
The fellow must have suffered from Dat.
Depend upon it there would be reaction and
an outbreak sooner or later. There was
nothing like moderation in all things. The
young men in great disgust voted Sir William
at once a low prig, a dissenting minister in

disguise, a wet blanket, a beastly interloper.
The favour of the last-mentioned critics would
not have been particularly desirable for the
man whom they sent to Coventry. Poor
Jen's prevision was ji'ophetic where they were
concerned.

But Sir William was lonely in his new
estate, and he would have been still lonelier
had not Lady Fermor proved faithful to her
fancy and approached him as she knew how,
in a variety of neighbourly ways. He had
touched some softer chord in the hard, cjTiical
old heart. Whether he recalled an honest
young brother who had believed in her when
she was still deserving of belief, with whom
she had been hand and glove in her early girlhood,
or a lover for whom she had felt the
dawning of fervent respect and regard, though
she had tortured and tried him, till for his
honour and happiness he had parted from her
for ever, or the boy she might have borne
instead of weak and whimpering girls, who
could perhaps have saved her fi'om the depths
which had left her what she was ; there was no
question of the kindly feeling for Sir William
which underlay the mocking defiance of the
neighbourhood, her determination to appropriate

the new-comer, and the rapid formation
in her mind of certain worldly schemes
where he was concerned.

Lady Fermor kept up briskly the acquaintance
which had been begun. She invited
Sir William constantly over to Lambford and
she returned his visits by unceremonious calls,
to ask what he was doing, what he thought of
the weather for the turnips, whether his lambs
were in good condition. She would disturb
the absolute silence of the long low-roofed
drawing-room, out of which Lady Thwaite
had been wont to allow complacently so much
could be made in this age of revivals. It was
such a delicious place for window-seats, screens,
fans and pot-pourra. As it was now stripped
of Ladv Thwaite' s reversion of the screens,
fans and pot-pourra, and under the superintendence
of an unexceptionable housekeeper like
Mrs. Cray, who hated what she termed litter,
the room was quickly assuming a stiff, stony
and disused aspect. But it did not chill or
daunt Lady Fermor, who claimed her afternoon
tea there and looked round her on the
family portraits which were heir-looms, the
couple of Sir Joshuass, the fine fragments of old
tapestry, with a freedom which even she

had not attempted when the room owned a
mistress.

Lady Fermor declared without a falter,
rather with sly satisfaction, that she was a
great deal too old for people to speak about
her any longer, or to mind what she did, so
that she could drop in on a young friend to
see what he was about without making a
rumpus. She never took her grand-daughter
with her, on her ' larking expeditions,' but
Sir William was in Iris Compton's company
every time he went over to Lambford. He
accepted the invitations. Mr. Miles' s early
warning proved of no avail. Will Thwaite
had not been so nice in the company he had
kept that he should consider himself too good
for these people, one of whom was the sweetest
and truest of God's creatures. So Ions;- as he
did not fail in his promise to Jen, he did not
see what harm could come of his ofoin where
he was made heartily welcome. He thought
more of that after the first visit than of the
rank of Lord and Lady Fermor or the grandeur
of Lambford. 

Sir William did not mind losing a little
money ; he supposed it was the way of such
houses, and he could afford it. For that

VOL. I. 10

matter, Lady Fermor had interposed her
shield, from the first evening on which Sir
William had gone to Lambford, between him
and wholesale plunder, as represented by
Major Pollock and birds of his feather. She
kept her young neighbour very much to herself,
either as her antagonist or her partner at
the card-table. She would consent to amuse
herself by winning more or less of his guineas ;
but so long as she could help it there should
be no turning inside-out of his pockets, no
inoculating him with the incurable disease of
play, no instilling into him the arts of a
blacken in self-defence. One lad who had
trusted her should not have to curse the day
he had ever seen her face. He should come
and go at Lambford without his being the
worse for it, even if his being the worse were
not likely to interfere with a half-formed
plan of hers.

Yet Sir William did not respond to Lady
Termor's friendship without some instinctive
reluctance. Whatever his youthful errors had
been, his better nature was repelled by her, as
by an old woman who was very far from what
she should be. In spite of her gradual social
whitewashing, she occasionally made revelations

of herself which revolted him. He resented
her lack of affection for her granddaughter,
which he had been quick to notice,
and felt aggrieved by it, though it was no
business of his, and so far as he could judge,
the indifference remained unmixed with any
form of ill-usage. But it also belonged to his
nature, both in its strength and its weakness,
that he should be touched by any kindness
shown to himself. Lady Fermor, be she what
she might, was awfully good to him, and one
day finding her alone among the tulip beds on
the terrace at Lambford, tottering along by
the help of her parasol, he was moved to an
impulsive offer of his strong young arm, the
first he had made to a lady in his life.

Won't you lean on my arm, my lady ?' he
said, awkwardly enough, ' if it ain't too great
a freedom in me to propose it.'

She took his arm instantly, and patted it
with her claw of a hand, as she chatted to
him.

Another day he was shown into the back
drawing-room by a bungle of the servant's ;
Sir William immediately concluded  when he
found Lady Fermor almost swallowed up in
wraps, in an easy-chair, with one foot swathed

102

as in the cerements of a mummy on a stool
before her  in the clutches of gout. He stopped
on the threshold with a brief word of apology
and regret, and was about to beat a rapid
retreat when the sufferer hailed him.

Don't go away, Thwaite,' she forbade him.
Come forward, and let me see a hale and
hearty fellow who has all his senses, and is
neither worn out, nor deaf, nor blind  even
Pollock has to use glasses in private, though
the fool goes blinking without them in public.
You have not had a twinge of my enemy.
Ah, your day will come. Well, perhaps not,
if you go on drinking ditch water ; but I daresay
worse will happen to you. Sit down and
tell me what news is going, or read the papers
to me for a bit. I am sick of that hole of a
dressing-room of mine, to which I have been
confined for three days. I dare say I shall
die some day without my friends having had
the grace to inquire for me. No ; I know you
had not heard, but whose fault was that ?
stow that you are here I am going to make
you useful. See, there is a draught blowing
from that window, draw the curtains more to
my side.'

He did as he was told, handily enough this

time. He was one of those rough fellows who
are gentle in sick-rooms. Indeed, he had
a greater knack at nursing even than Iris
Compton possessed. This gift had become
known both in and out of hospital in the
course of his soldiering. He had been repeatedly
told off as the orderly appointed to
wait on a sick comrade or officer. But he had
certainly never waited on an old lady under
an attack of gout before. ' Mais ce n'est que
le premier pas qui route.' When he turned
and saw better the hollow eyes glittering with
fever and pain, the puckered, yellow face, the
constrained attitude, the helplessness, he was
full of pity, and of a erasing to be of service
to her.

It ain't a joke. Have you had your medicine?
Don't it ease you the least thing? No ;
I am main sorry. I think, if you would let
me, I could lift you right up and set you down
again more comfortable like.'

Ah ! thank you, my dear fellow, that is
ever so much better. I am in the very best
corner of purgatory now. How long would
it have been before any idiot of a servant ora
doctor could have managed it ? Of course
a well-meaning baby like Iris would only kill

herself without being of an atom of use to me.
There, will you read to me ? for the truth is
I am not up to talking. You'll find some of
the morning papers on that table.'

He fell into the trap, if trap it was, instantly.
He brought the paper, and read fluently in a
stentorian but perfectly distinct voice, which
had lost its self-consciousness for the moment.
He picked out carefully the paragraphs relating
to races far and near, and the last
report of the Mark Lane Express. Then he
courageously attacked the columns that set
forth a trial for murder. He was satisfied that
these were the portions of the paper in which
she would take most interest.

Sir William read till Lady Fermor, growing
drowsy, dismissed him with thanks and
praise.

I don't know what I owe to you, since
you are sending me off to sleep, which is the
very best thing you could have done for me 
what Sawbones has tried in vain to bring about
with his abominable opiates. You have read
what any rational, unaffected person would
like to listen to, and I have heard every word
you said, for you don't cheep like a girl or
mouth like a play-actor.'

The last hit was directed against Mr. Acton,
the rector, who, in seeking zealously to be eves
to his discreditable old parishioner, had neither
succeeded in affording pleasure nor conveying
profit.

But to-day Lady Fermor's heavy eyes were
moist as they glanced after her nurse and
reader. She was a good deal of a Stoic, and
wished to feel sufficient for herself, but it was
so long, so very long, since she had been served
with any service she cared to accept out of
pure, disinterested goodwill, with some kindly
care for her at the bottom of the act.

Rival CLAIMS.

Lady Thwaite soon became aware of the
degree to which Lady Fermor had diverted
Sir William from what, after Lady Thwaite' s
advances, ought to have been his grateful,
trustful reliance on the only person near, who
had the most distant pretension to being connected
with him by a family tie. The absence
of any natural Netherton influence over hieland
the fact that he could not find anything
in common with the late Sir John's widow,
were disappointing traits in Sir William. The
conclusion might have been held a compliment
to her ladyship, still it was a piece of great
stupidity in the young man, since Lady
Thwaite was so popular in the neighbourhood.
She was not bluer or more aesthetical than
the custom of the day required. She was
not stuck up or puritanical. She was a woman

of society, a charming woman in most people's
estimation, the secret of whose charm was that
she could suit herself admirably to any commonplace,
tolerable company, in her own class
of course.

The cool appropriation of Sir William by
Lady Fermor was a lawless interference with
the rights of another, and an arrogant trampling
upon them which savoured of the woman's old
machinations. But Lady Thwaite, though she
had all her life shown that she could look out
for herself, was no match for her neighbour,
and knew it, which was a considerable proof
of Lady Thwaite's cleverness. She felt provoked
and aggrieved, but she did not dream
of entering the lists against the successful
competitor. If Sir William Thwaite had the
bad taste and the bad moral perception  and
after all, what could be expected strom him? 
to accept Lady Termor for his sponsor, and to
turn to Lambford for countenance and guidance,
unquestionably he was at liberty to do
so. The loss of frequent personal visits from
him would simply be a relief from maintaining
fellowship with a boor and a bore, from the
responsibility of inflicting him on her friends,
and from being, in a sense, security for his

good behaviour. Thanks to her mother's
lawyer and the late Sir John, his widow was
not by any means dependent on the favour of
his successor, though she would have liked to
have done her duty by him and by the fine
old place over which she had presided, which
she had once hoped would have descended to
her son. But if Sir William showed himself
incapable of appreciating her motives and was
infatuated, there remained nothing more to be
said.

Lady Thwaite in her calmness and reasonableness
was, as Mr. Miles had vouched for,
not at all difficult to get on with, up to a
certain point, and if you expected nothing
farther, you would not be disappointed. She
had at once suspected Lady Fermor of ulterior
designs. ' Trust the naughty old woman not
to do anything without having a sufficiently
selfish end to serve,' said Lady Thwaite to
herself. The preponderance of a certain
quantity of brain over heart in her, prevented
her from so much as conceiving the lingering
womanly regard with which Sir William had
inspired his undesirable monitor. ' What is
it ?' pondered Lady Thwaite. ' Does she
want a fit victim for the intermittent gambling

that still goes on fitfully at Lambford ? I
know I  who make a rule of never staking
anything save gloves  was forced into losing
three guineas the last time I dined there. I
did wish I had paid heed to poor Sir John,
and kept clear even of ci-devant black sheep,
or that I could have pled, like demure Mrs.
Acton, that the Rector would not permit me
to play for money. Is Lady Fermor bent on
making a match between Sir William and Iris
Compton? I did think, when they met here,
that if it had been anybody else I should
have said she seized the first opportunity of
taking his homely measure and laying herself
out for him. He is a good-looking fellow
enough, and might pass for horsey and
nothing worse, though I believe he enlisted in
an infantry regiment. He knows how to
hold his tongue in the meantime, and when
he reaches the stage of speaking, very likely
he will do it decently. Whitehills is not to
be despised, even with a Sir Will attached toit,
as a necessary though not very available
appendage. But Iris is not a girl of that
sort, not that there would be any harm in her
seeking to push her fortune, if there were any
call for it, or if her destiny were in her own

keeping. Women of the upper classes have
no other resource, unless they take to mounting
platforms. But Iris Compton has birth,
beauty, and if her grandfather and grandmother
live to nearly a hundred, as mauvais
sujets usually do, I dare say she will have
something like a fortune. But there are the
ugly antecedents, with what may be the taint
in the blood. No ; many a man would not
choose her for his wife, poor girl ! so that my
dearly beloved and right worshipful cousin,
Sir William, might have a chance. He had
the taste to make sheep's eyes at her, as at a
divinity, the other day. I wonder how it
would do ! Iris would be a great improvement
for a cousin, and she would not rule
with a high hand. She is the style of grand
simpleton who would never forget old favours
and former conditions  for instance, that I
had been kind to her, and had been mistress
of Whitehills in my day. How does it feel
to be Queen Dowager or ex-Lady Mayoress,
I should like to know ? That has not come
quite within my experience yet, since my dear
old drawing-room is given over to Mrs. Cray,
and no other Lady Thwaite reigns at White-hills.
I should say it depended to some

extent for its being made tolerably endurable,
on the temper of the reigning Queen Consort
or Lady Mayoress. Ah ! but nice as she is,
there is that in the blood, while the association
might prove a fearful risk in its utter unsuitability.
Beauty and the Beast, the
Princess and  not the knightly Page  the
ploughman Squire.'

After further thinking over the subject,
Lady Thwaite saw herself called upon to
attempt a talk with Sir William. She would
drop a gentle hint  double-barrelled  against
the danger of houses  of which Lambford
was not the only one in Eastham  in which
play was as an essential element, and against
the rashness of marriages which involved bad
connections.

Lady Thwaite sent Sir William one of her
little notes, summoning him  with the most
disarming, compelling confidence in his obeying
the summons  to come over to Atherton
either for luncheon, afternoon-tea, or dinner,
as he felt inclined, to discuss a tenant difficulty
with regard to one of the farms set apart for
her jointure, about which, by the way, she
was a hundred times better informed than he
could be. * Men like to be consulted whether

they know or not,' she reasoned. ' Poor Sir
John always did. It used to put him into a
good humour, and the less he knew, the
better he was pleased. I am right to begin
by asking Sir William's opinion, and young
Sam Withers' s views about a new lease will
do as well as any other subject.'

Out of three evils Sir William chose the
least, the slight refection which ladies affect
as afternoon-tea. Though he never drank tea
then, for his own part, it was not such a
novelty to him, as many another thing. His
sister Jen, the washerwoman, and her cronies,
had taken tea at all hours ! Here was the
touch of nature which seemed to make the
whole of women kin. Besides, he had been
fortunate before on such an occasion. Who
knew what graceful figure might not pass the
windows, what flower-face blossom before his
ravished eyes, what eager, gentle interposition
save him from a horrible strait ? He had not
forgotten the burden which included agonies
of mauvaise honte, the mingled stupefaction
and smart of a consciousness of unbounded
ignorance, the dread of looking like a cad,
with the angry suspicion, bordering on conviction,
that the late Sir John's widow did

not find her own house an insuperable
barrier against making game of her husband's
heir ?

But unless for the pleasure of being helped
by Iris, Sir William was becoming more independent
of extraneous aid in his new
sphere.

It is a curious study both for philosophy
and satire, to recognise how soon a man of
ordinary aptitude and fair opportunities accommodates
himself outwardly to a change
of circumstances. There may be a thousand
things, petits soins of etiquette, tricks, turns
and shades of behaviour which take years,
nay generations to acquire, which, when allis
said, women learn sooner and better than
men. But it would have been either encouraging
or mortifying, according to the
creed or temper of the individual, for an onlooker
to have satisfied himself of the degree
to which Sir William had accustomed himself,
on the surface at least, within three or
four months, to a new style of living. He
now sat, or leant back, very much at his ease
apparently, in one of Lady Thwaite's fauteuils,
and looked round with calmly observant  she
could almost have said critical eyes, on her

treasures, the orchids from his own greenhouses,
the Banksia rose-tree covering the
door of the conservatory with its myriads of
minute flowers. But she did not have him
there that she might privately remark on the
improvement in his manner and hearing,
which, save for his soldierly carriage, owed
little or nothing to his training. The only
sign she gave of noticing his progress, was
that the faultlessly well-bred widow, in her
faultless weeds, did not again break down by
committing the solecism of converting her
STuest and kinsman into a butt.

Lady Thwaite discussed fluently the grievance
of young Sam Withers's wishing a new
lease to his farm already, and settled the
question without much help from Sir William,
whose one idea, as yet, in such difficulties was
Mr. Miles. Then she glided on to general
topics, chatting easily and brightly. There
was not much going on in the neighbourhood
just then  there was not much at any time.
Eastham was a little slow, even those who
loved it best  and she hoped Sir William
would grow fond of his county  must own
that. But it would have been a blessing if
the quality of slowness had been the only old

fashion to be deprecated which still held its
own in Eastham. Was Sir William aware
that a considerable  she might say a lamentable
 amount of high play survived in every
class, with the most distressing results in
some cases ? The Rector could tell him tales
of its demoralising effect on many of the
farmers. She trusted Sir William as a newcomer
would set his face against the practice,
when he met it in their circle.

Sir William in his gravity was not without
a sense of humour, and now that he was
beginning to get over the shocks he had
sustained, the humour had room to play at
times. 

I beg your pardon, Lady Thwaite, I think
it is just because I am a new-comer that it is
not for me to interfere ; now, you are an old
hand '

An old hand I' she swallowed the brutal
plain speaking. ' I would gladly try the little
I can, but except abroad a woman has nothing
to do with play.'

Poor Lady Thwaite ! she was an innocent
woman dwelling among green fields after all.
She had little suspicion of the re-appearance
of the mortal malady among the grand dames

VOL. I. 11

of the generation. Such a relapse consummates
the ruin of old historical families,
brings to the hammer broad acres, and
scatters art collections which have taken
centuries to acquire, and have been kept
together through changes of dynasties and
national up-heavens, to be gambled away by
the turning up of a knave or the loss of an
ace.

It is a vice,' continued Lady Thwaite in
her simplicity, ' which you men keep very
much to yourselves in England. But Lady
Termor is an exception. Is it not a melancholy
spectacle to see a poor old creature like
Lord Fermor, and a battered, bedizened old
woman like Lady Fermor  they say she
came out at Alack's  cling to cards as
their chief good, when one would think the
couple might be turning their attention to
other things ?'

To their graves or their winding sheets, I
suppose?' Sir William rose to irony. 'I
thought the Fermors were your friends,' he
said, repeating the objection he had made to
Mr. Miles 's opinion, as if the higher Sir William
rose in the world the more social hypocrisy
he encountered. ' They can take their

choice, I fancy. If they are too stiff to walk
or ride, and can't see to read, and are notable
to entertain their friends in any other
way, ain't cards made for them, and the like
of them, to pass some of their slow creeping
time ?'

She hastened to explain herself. ' I quite
agree with you that cards, or backgammon, or
chess, in moderation, are excellent resources
for old people, especially if they are deaf
Don't imagine for a moment that I am so
narrow or silly as to object to cards in themselves.
Why, I used to play draughts with
Sir John as regularly as the evenings came
round. It is perfectly depressing to come
across the board now. But it was play for
high stakes according to people's means, that
I was deploring. If that has ceased at Lamb-ford
it can only be lately. Oh ! Lady Fermor.
has been a dreadful woman,' exclaimed Ladv
Thwaite, as if on the impulse of the moment,
shading her face with a fan which lay at hand.
One cannot speak of such things, unless when
an old married woman, as you rightly regard
me, opens her mouth to put a stranger and
kinsman on his guard. There is no end of
skeletons in that house  very grisly skeletons.

112

The first Lady Fermor died mad. A visitor
staying in the house locked his room door and
shot himself, after quitting the card-table. He
was a young man engaged to be married ; the
only son of a widow, and he was a clergyman
I am sorry to say, when he yielded to the
madness and could not face the disgrace and
destruction in store for him. Poor Iris Compton
! it is very sad for her, but although she
is a charming girl, as good as gold, and all
the horrors happened before she was born,
still the reproach attaches in some measure to
her  a portion of the shadow falls on her. It
is grievous, but it cannot be helped.'

It was a rainy afternoon in May, and he had
been sitting with his long legs and his boots 
not free from mud  stretched out before him,
while he glanced out of the window nearest to
him with a mind half wandering from the conversation,
because of her he mioht see amono-
the laurels, in spite of the rain which had only
begun to fall. He drew himself up with a
suddenness that made Lady Thwaite start, and
turned upon her a lowering brow and a hot
cheek. He was unused to any diplomacy in
conversation ; he only knew that he hated to
have his friends called bad names  all the

more, perhaps, if they deserved them. But it
made him furious to listen to the most distant
insinuation of a stain on the spotless plumage
of a white dove like Miss Compton.

I have found Lambford a jolly house,' he
declared defiantly. ' Old Lady Fermor behaves
like a mother to me. Why do you smile and
shake your head? I am sure she is old enough
to be my grandmother.' At that word, which
slipped out inadvertently, he coloured more
violently than before, and began to flounder
in his speech. ' You don't mean me to rake
up old scandals, and to distrust everybody
who speaks me fair and makes me welcome,
because they have not always been on the
square. I am not their judge; I have sins
enough of my own to answer for  if you only
knew. As for Miss Compton, I will not speak
of her ; she is not to be brought into such talk,
only she is as much beyond reproach as the
stars in the sky. Good-bye, Lady Thwaite.
Oh ! dash it now, I am not displeased. What
right has a fellow like me to be displeased or
to object to any word which a woman  a lady
likes to say of her friends in her own ?'
and out he marched.

She rose, went to a window, and stood looking

after him as he walked fast across the
sweep and down the little avenue. She
laughed a little at her own dismissal. ' Yes,
he has dismissed me ; I have not sent him
away. He might have taken an umbrella ;
but I suppose he has stood sentinel in the wet
like the man in Tennyson's verses. It is a
plain-spoken Sir Will ; yet I am not sure that
he saw my drift. It is evident he is hit by
Iris Compton. He has not the self-control or
delicacy to maintain a becoming reserve, not
to say to throw dust into people's eyes. If
the old witch at Lambford does incline in that
direction, I dare say the match is made. Poor
Iris ! she will have many a yawn and many a
blush  though she has been accustomed to a
dead-alive household  to submit, and to look
aside when she cannot look straight before her.
She will not have everything her own way 
when all is done, in spite of his present blustering
worship. I could imagine that a hero
from the ranks would have a primitively passionate
courtship while it lasted  to be followed
by a reaction of coolness, neglect, and rudeness,
even when he did not beat his wife like a
coal-heaver. Now Sir John was calm and
deliberate in his well-bred wariness ; one

always knew what to do with him. He did
not chancre much, though he could be cantankerous
at times, poor old soul ! I don't
know  she may be good enough to stand it
all, and bear with him while she is making as
much of a gentleman as can be made of him.

 If he is to marry somebody soon,' Lady
Thwaite cogitated further, ' I would rather a
great deal have Iris than an} of the Acton
girls  only Lucy is old enough, the others are
too young, and Lucy has not a soul above
choir practising, Sunday-school teaching, and
poor people's clubs  an excellent eldest
daughter or wife for a clergyman, but not a
wife for a squire. She would have neither
time nor tact for taking the lead in county
society, and she might drive the Squire to
become dissenter or the worst of landlords,
out of jure contradiction. Such things are
heard of nowadays, noblemen holding forth at
conventicles, and squires declining to interfere
between farmers and labourers, and refusing
to put another foot in the village, where
their wives are for ever pottering and making
paupers.

claude and Nanny Hollies might have the
monster for a trick on their brothers, or a

wager; but that would not do at any price
Lady Thwaite pursued her musings. * If an
alliance be unmistakably impending, I shall
throw my weight, such as it is, into Iris
Compton's scale. I suppose she would go upto
town for her trousseau. I might chaperon
her faute de mieux:, if Lady Fermor did not
choose to accompany her grand-daughter. The
old lady will not give in ; but she cannot
attempt many more journeys. I should not
dislike it. Iris would have to make Sir William
do a good deal of re-furnishing, and I
should be the best qualified person to advise
the couple.

There ! I believe Lady Fermor has infected
me or suborned me,' the schemer ended.
I could not have believed that I should be so
easily reconciled  not to say that I should
take kindly to Sir William's marriage  to
another Lady Thwaite at Whitehills. Height !
But it is natural that I should continue to
take an interest in my old belongings ; at the
same time he and she ought to be much obliged
to me, as I don't doubt they will be. If my
poor boy had lived, the place would never have
gone entirely away from me; I should have
been living over there still, till he was of age,

and it was his marriage which had to be
planned. Oh, my little baby !' cried the
woman, with a momentary softening, ' I
thought for a brief, blessed time that you
would grow up like other babies  that we
should make a man of you. But it was not to
be, and there is an end of it. Where is the
use of idle lamentation ? The Rector would
say it is as unchristian as it is unwise.'

Lady Fermor had often astonished  nay,
astounded  the world, and she was to astonish
it again, by boldly proclaiming that she was
to return to it for one night. She would not
put herself about to go up to town during
the season, while she must have Iris presented
next year ; but she would have gay doings
once more at Lambford  unexceptionably gay
doings this time, though she did not supply
the qualification. Her grand daughter
would be twenty-one in June, and Lady Fer-mor
would have a ball in honour of Iris's
birthday. There would not be a multitude  
nothing like the festivities when she and Lord
Fermor kept open house for a week at a time
in a close run at an election, or when the
hounds hunted five times in succession at the
different fox-covers within twenty miles round

to oblige the Duke, who was staying at Wool-aston
Lodge. Tom Mildmay, Lord Fermor's
nephew, would be down about that date to
look around him, curry favour with the
steward, lounge through the offices, and take
solitary rides over the property, pricking his
long ears all the time. They would see
whether his wife could find an excuse for not
accompanying him on this occasion. Lucy
Acton would be at Iris's beck, as was her
duty, and the younger girls could come, if
they were required. She might count on the
Hollies girls, who were never behind when any
diversion, within the scope of girls, was in the
wind. That meant also their father and
mother. Were not those she had mentioned
women enough? Very well. Lady Thwaite
was to have her house full in June, and she
would bring further contributions, if more
partners were wanted. Leave the men to
Lady Fermor ; she could undertake for them,
since Fermor was hors de combat. There
would be Thwaite first  the ball was as much
to introduce him as Iris  Lady Fermor said,
with full comprehension of the sense in which
the words might be taken, looking her hearers
full in the face while she spoke. Any men

Tom Mildmay might like to bring down 
they would not be much worth, still they
would be men  old Hollies and the train of
fellows his girls kept at their heels, the officers
from Birkett  they were a new set, but every
man would jump at his card. Ludovic Acton
need hardly be counted ; but since he had
been blown up by torpedoes he might come,
and old Pollock must not be left out.

nobody was more taken by surprise at the
compliment paid to her than Iris. It was an
acceptable compliment to a healthy-minded
young girl, leading a singularly retired Hfe;
but any exultation she was tempted to feel
became a good deal subdued after a comment
of her grandmother's. It followed on Iris's
expression of grateful thanks, and concern
lest her grandfather and grandmother should
suffer from the disturbance of their usual
habits, ' Though you and I don't pull in the
same boat, Iris,' said the old lady with her
hardest look and tone, ' you have not given
me any particular reason hitherto to think you
a liar. But don't make pretences that I
cannot take in. No girl that ever was born
would heed the comfort of Noah and his wife
when her first ball at home was mooted.

Make the most of your youth and what good
looks have fallen to your share, and any other
good thing that comes in your way, while
they last. Be sure they will not last long,
and that you will have a price to pay for them.
But leave me to take care of myself and my
lord. I am still lit for that and more. Pray
don't waste your compassion upon us. I for
one should hate it, and I think 1 can answer
for Termor.'

Did the reader ever receive a welcome gift
and a slap in the face  figuratively  from the
giver at one and the same time? The process
is not pleasant, especially to a sensitive,
affectionate nature, and goes a long way to
spoiling the gift, only, happily, custom blunts
pain, and youth is elastic.

Lady Fermor chose that she should be the
person to apprise Sir William of her project,
making him one of her first confidants. When
he received it doubtfully, rather hanging back
from the promised boon than jumping at it, as
she had described the action of the jubilant
officers over at Birkett, she took him in hand,
and pursued him with her design on his
company. She had a number of tete-a-tetes
with him on his resolution to oblige or disoblige

her. These tete-a-tetes waxed positively
mysterious to the on-lookers  of whom
Major Pollock sneered the ugliest sneers, and
Iris smiled without a grain of anxiety because
of her grandmother's great fancy for poor, rude,
sober, agitated Sir William.

Sir William's agitation increased under the
pressure put upon him, and the notions deliberately
and persistently introduced into a
mind which, though very far from weak, was
at its best single rather than subtle, and was
narrowed by defects of education and absence
of experience. His assailant, on the contrary,
was as rich in the experience that served her
purpose as she was destitute of misgivings and
scruples.

Sir William, still drinking water, grew
practically an intoxicated man, dazed, to begin
with, in his intoxication, but at every moment
liable to violent outbreak of his disordered
faculties. It was at this point that he started
for London with the acknowledged intention
of spending three or four weeks there; but he
was pledged to return to Whitehills at the end
of June, in time for Lady Termor's ball.

Any one interested , in the manoeuvre could
detect that Sir William went with Lady

Fermor s permission, if not at her instigation.
The last conclusion was the more likely, since
she had been heard to dwell with some testiness
on the stupidity of lawyers, even those
in greatest repute, and their common failure
in securing for clients the very advantages of
which they stood most in need, which would
be really available to them.

But what did Lady Fermor send Sir
William to London for? Did she wish her
protege to revisit some of her old haunts, and
bring her back the last news ? Did she fancy
that knowledge of life and the world, the
seamy side of life and the world of evil, so
often taken to represent true life and the true
world, especially where men are concerned,
was imperatively called for to finish Sir
William Thwaite's halting education? Greenhorns
of young squires were wont to be sent
up from the country to have their eyes opened,
and learn how few people they could trust,
and what a ' precious difficult ' task it was to
take care of themselves. It was a base kind of
euphrasy which was squeezed on their eye-lids.
When the young squires returned to their native
fields, over head and ears in debt, wasted with
riotous living, it was often doubtful  however

knowing the men showed themselves in the
future  whether the game were worth the
candle. Averse such places of resort as Lady
Fermor was likely to recommend, with the
questionable introductions which she could
procure, together with rides in the park, and
visits to Lord's, and running the risk of being'
black-balled by a West-end club, judged the
proper materials for lending a speedy polish
to Sir William's original style? Did Lady
Termor's intention of bestowing her granddaughter
on the gentleman induce her to
intrust him, of all people, with the delicate
responsibility of buying a birthday maclean for
the heroine of the ball? Left to such taste and
judgment what might it not be? A hideously
set necklace, fit for a South Sea Islander; a
brooch and ear-rings as big as a plate and a
pair of cups and saucers; a new watch, which
could be worn by an alderman?

A HAND IN NEED.

The simple truth was that Lady Fermor had
counselled Sir William to run up in a hurry
to London, and, though it was the season, to
live as quietly as he could manage it, not even
calling at Messrs. Miles and Dickinson's office,
unless he felt bound to do so, for he would
have little enough time for the business he
had in hand, which was to take private lessons
from a dancing master. Lady Fermor would
furnish him, by the aid of a friend, with the
address of the best man for his purpose.
While he was about it, he might as well goto
a riding master and get a little training
from him also. With regard to the last obligation,
Sir William had the liking for a horse
which reigns in the bosom of ninety-nine out
of a hundred young men. Sir John, as a
matter of course, had kept up a good stud at

T\"hiteliills long after he was incapable of
taking exercise on his cob, or having anything
farther to do with horses than being driven out
for a carriage airing It had been one of the
first of his possessions of which Sir William
availed himself, and to the credit of his courage
and natural instincts, he had neither come to
serious grief nor made a notorious spectacle of
himself His seat and hand might not be all
that could be desired; there might be traces of
swallowing a ramrod in the saddle as elsewhere;
still Sir William did not look amiss on
horseback, while his attainments in this respect
were deserving of cultivation.

There is no one to tell what heart Sir
William carried to his studies in the freshness
of early summer in London. Whether he did
not attack the first, mostly with spasms of
shamefacedness and self ridicule ? Whether
he were not often tempted to abandon it, and
find manlier and nobler teaching in that great,
wonderful world of stone and lime, which he
had not knovn hitherto, except in the most
cursory, one-sided fashion?

Only this is ceram, that a strong, sweet
inducement was beckoning him on to submit
to what was like the binding and teasing of

VOL. I. 12

Samson by Delilah, after she had subdued the
giant with the spell which he himself had put
into her hands.

At the same time absence and leisure for reflection,
since he was not capering in one
fashion or another all day, and all night to
boot, did something to dispel the fumes of the
intoxication, under the influence of which Sir
William had rushed ofl" to town. He was
further smitten by the thought of ' swells ' to
the manner born, who did not need this, to
him, humiliating preparation for entering
into the gay society in which Iris Compton
took her place as a matter of course, and was
fitted to shine above all other stars in the
galaxy.

He strolled many a night with his hands in
his pockets and a pipe instead of a cigar
between his teeth, where not a mortal knew
him, past houses in Piccadilly and Park Lane,
lit up that gentlefolks might hold their revels.
He pushed his way through the crowds
collected to stare at the carriages, as they
rolled up to the covered entrances and put
down the occupants  of whose fine feathers
and sparkling stones the mob had a glimpse
while the guests passed into the flower-lined

halls and went up the embowered stairs to the
ball-rooms, from which the music of brass
bands kept sounding. The fellows, who
seemed still more the masters of the situation
than the footmen, as they rid themselves of
their crush hats and other encumbrance, and
proceeded to join their partners, were perfectly
at ease, and had not been condemned to undergo
an absurd ordeal for a full-grown man, or to
feel hot and cold in such scenes, as he would
feel, even after he had taken lessons in dancing.
He hoped desperately Lady Termor
would not turn round and ' peach,' and Miss
Compton find him out. His heart swelled
with angry despair of ever feeling on a level
with born and bred jackanapes. It seemed
to him that he was going on the course and
entering the lists for the sweepstakes with
such a mere spread of a chance that his failure
would be accompanied with the roars of
ridicule and shouts of derision which he
had often helped to raise on other com-ses.
Yet there were drops of blood in his veins
which gave him some title  as the squires of
Eastham had Ions: ao'o admitted  to enter such
houses, where his acres and title put him, sofar
as they were concerned, on an equality

122

with all, save those of the highest rank, in
these assemblies. In the process of becoming
a finished gentleman, Sir William was, to a
certain extent, disillusioned and rubbed the
wrong way; so that when he returned to
Whitehills in good time, and found as the
first thing that awaited him, a note in a shaky
old hand from Lady Fermor, to tell him that
Lord Fermor had been seized with one of his
attacks, and been so ill, that though he was
now better, the ball was unavoidably postponed
for a month, he said to himself he had
known all along this was how it would end.

It was in vain that he had sought by
despicable efforts to cut the figure of a
monkey obeying the directions of an organ-grinder,
who did not even play his own
organ, and put his scholar through his paces
as if he had never been drilled, as if he had
not been a drill sergeant in his own person,
and ended by finding fault with his step and
his carriage ! He was rightly served for his
folly. What a grin it would call forth if it
were ever known to his old comrades of the
barrack-yard ! for whom, though they were
rough chaps enough, he was free to own he
sometimes secretly sighed. He missed his

mates, among whom he had crowed, instead
of hanging his head and singing dumb. Where
was the good of a title and an estate if they
only made a man feel small among other
baronets and squires who had worn their
honours all their lives, to whom their grandeur
came naturally, who knew what to say and
do on every possible emergency ? Yet with
one notable exception. Sir William did not
see that the circle, the members of which
ought to be his associates, were so very much
better than their fellow creatures after all.

Sir "William put no faith in Lady Termor's
assurance that the ball was only postponed
for a short time, since she would have Lord
Fermor as well as when the affair was proposed,
before many weeks were over. She
could not make him live or die. though she
had driven rough shod over many a barrier,
and stuck at little in her time. It sounded
heartless and profane in the old woman, who
had wound him round her finger, to pretend
to such power.

The young man was suffering from one of
the fits of reaction which beset many people
who have far less reason for them than he
had. His loneliness, which had haunted him

in town, struck even more coldly to his heart
when he returned to Whitehills. He was not
without invitations to his neighbours' houses.
Lady Thwaite and Lady Termor were not the
only women in that part of the country who
decreed that Whitehills, even with Sir William
into the bargain, was not to be despised.
Every woman with marriageable daughters,
from office-bearing, harassed Mrs. Acton, who
was as poor as a many-chilled church-mouse,
to Mrs. Hollies, of Thornbrake, who was rich
in her own right, and rich in her husband's,
felt bound to cultivate the new-comer for the
good of womankind, so far as to see what
could be made of him. But Sir William,
though he might kick against his subjection
at intervals, remained loyal to his chief
patroness. In the present state of matters
at Lambford he would not go into company.
His unvarnished refusals, together with the
extent to which he had previously availed
himself of the Lambford hospitalities, tended
to confirm the rumour which was already
afloat that, in newspaper language, there was
a marriage on the tapis between Sir William
Thwaite and Miss Compton.

This gossip impaired one source of attraction

 that of a diseno'ao'ed eligible young:
man  but filled its place with another. It
would be interesting to see Sir William
Thwaite and Iris Compton together, and
judge if there were any truth in the story,
anything serious between the couple. To
think that a woman over eighty should step
in adroitly, while younger people held back,
in order to subject the prize to inspection, and
win it before their eyes ! Here was food for
excitement in a dull country neighbourhood,
while the question in suspense promised to
prove an important agent in filling the Lamb-ford
ball-room. Instead of a sprinkling of
reluctant guests, Lady Fermor, chuckling in
her sleeve, was in danger of being publicly
and privately assailed for invitations.

In the meantime, one of the two centres of
interest was utterly unconscious of the potent
charm with which she had been invested.
Her great friend, Lucy Acton, might have
given Iris some inkling of the truth, but unfortunately
Lucy had been working day and
nio'ht to enable the female teacher in the
Rector's school to bring up her pupils to the
standard of attainment which should secure a
Government grant, and Iris was occupied at

home and less at the Rectory than usual at
this date.

The military discipline which Sir William
had known, helped his sense of propriety in
holding himself aloof from his servants. The
one to whom he drew nearest was the young
groom who accompanied his master in his
rides. This was an honest, sensible lad, a
countryman, born and bred at Whitehills.
Sir William and Bill Rogers were about the
same age, while Bill was au fait to all the
rural knowledge, with which Sir William,
brought up in a town, proved scantily acquainted.
And a lad like Bill had at his
finger-ends the local annals of which his
master was profoundly ignorant. From a
casual observation now and then, the two took
to chatting a little together  quite respectfully
on Bill's part, about the crops and the crows,
the colts and the rabbits. Bill would venture
to call Sir William's attention to this farm,
and tell him there had been Wilkinson in it,
folk said, as long as there had been Thwaites
in Whitehills. He would point to that mill,
the lease of which belonged to Sir William
also. It seemed but right the Squire should
know what trouble there had been in the

miller's family, for the last two seasons, since
the miller met with the bad accident, when his
arm was caught in the machinery, and his wife
was of no use because of ' a waste,' while their
eldest son had taken to drink.

Mr. Miles had striven in vain  as it seemed
to him  to awaken in Sir William sufficient
curiosity about his tenants, with whose interests
his own must be inextricably bound
up. He was new and strange to the place
and life, and he was still stasoered and shaken
by the events and revolutions of the last few
months. It was different now, or Bill communicated
the information in a simpler,
more telling manner. Sir William listened,
asked questions, even went so far as to
certify some of Bill's narratives and make a
movement in connection with them. And
it must be said of Bill that he did not abuse
the influence of which he was not altogether
unconscious.

In other departments, even of his own
house, the Squire of Whitehills continued
terribly unsocial. He gave deep offence to
Mr. Cumberbatch, the butler, by ordering his
the Squire's  meals to be brought into the
library, and by keeping a book lying beside

this plate. Sir William might think of his
butler's feelings, if he had none of his own.
It was too absurd for a fellow who had pipeclayed
his belts and cleaned his boots to make
a pretence of being ' that scholarly.' Why,
the Dean had never looked at a book for full
half an hour before luncheon, saying the
mere sight of print, hard on a meal, spoilt
digestion. As for reading during dinner, of
course he knew better ; he was a gentleman.
Even when his ladies were from home he was
sensible what was due to the table and the
wines  not to say to the cook and the butler.
But what could be expected of a squire who
drank water like a temperance lecturer ? The
Dean was an affable gentleman in proper
quarters ; but Sir William had not half a
dozen words to say  except, as Mr. Cumber-batch
had heard, to that lump of a lad, Bill
Rogers. Mr. Cumberbatch had no fault to
find with Bill ; but what could lie tell a
gentleman that would be of use to him ?

Mr. Cumberbatch was not a bad fellow
himself in the main. He could be just, he
could even be magnanimous. But he was full
of class prejudices, and he had not the breadth
of mind to comprehend that while he himself

might repel, even alarm, Sir William as an
old prig and humbug of a butler, Bill was Sir
William's contemporary, ' a nice chap ' who
would not have been more than ' a cut above
Will Thwaite ' in the old days.

The long summer evenings tempted Sir
William to saunter, generally aimlessly
enough, beyond the park, along the country
roads. Ashen he passed the way side inns of
Eastham, the sound of skittles and jovial
voices, rich in the inflections and idioms of
the native dialect, filled the air. But the
only effect of the lively turmoil was to hasten
the wayfarer's steps, and cause him to turn
into more secluded by-paths. There was one
which led by a high matted together hawthorn
hedge, one tangle of traveller's joy and black
and green bryony. Beyond lay a long strip
of underwood, prized as an excellent covert
for game. Sir William knew that to his cost.
He had happened to take a terrier, which had
attached itself to him, along the field path.
The seductions of scent had proved too strong
for the small animal. She had forsaken her
late love, and plunged into the underwood,
over a sluggish ditch and through a hole
which was by no means large enough to admit

jeer companion. Sir William had hesitated to
tear his way through, and face, perhaps, one
of his own indignant keepers. He had fought
shy of them, as he had fought shy of his
retainers generally. And the keepers, especially,
were down in the mouth with regard to a
master who, so far as they could discover, had
not asked a single question about the state of
the birds and whether poachers were hard to
grapple with on the Whitehills ground. The
keepers' importance was as seriously threatened
as that of the butler. They were only dimly
aware that Sir William had in his day fired at
game rather bigger and less safe than partridges
and hares. Nor did they suspect that he had
been testing the truth of his aim at a target,
and had inspected all Sir John's guns with
some interest and a clear idea of trying his
luck on the first of September, or whatever
day was the law of the land and the gentry.

In the meantime Sir William had stood
still and listened to a great hurry-skurry
behind the hedge, and such sharp yelps of
frantic eagerness and delight from Vixen, that
he was sensible all his whistling and shouting
would not bring her back. He feared that
dog slaughter would take place before he

could prevent it, and before the perpetrator
of the act was cool enough to recognise the
intruder, and to realise that the owner of both
dog and game stood on the other side of the
hedge. However, there are consciences in
dogs, and Yixen awakened in time to a sense
of the folly and impropriety of her conduct.
She sneaked back with her eyes scratched and
watering, her nostrils full of sand, and her
coat stuck all over with dead leaves, broken
twigs, and seeded heads of grass, presenting
the usual disreputable look of a poacher
caught red-handed. Sir William took care
not to include Vixen in his further rambles in
the direction of Hawley Scrub.

He was alone as he strolled one memorable
evening across the meadow-land by the Scrub.
It was the loveliest hour of the twenty-four, at
the height of the young summer. The sun
had set, but the light was still clear, not only
in the west, where rose and purple had given
place to a pale amber, but in the rest of the
blue sky, bluer than at any other time, as the
corn in the ear and the leaves on the trees
were greener.

The trumpets of the greater bindweed and
the round faces of the moon daisies, already

wet with dew, still stood out prominently
among their surroundings, but they were
rapidly assuming a character totally different
from that they had borne at noon. They were
becoming ghostly as by moonlight, and striking
even an unimaginative person with a vague
impression of something wistful, solemn, mysterious
in their ordinarily frank, familiar,
cheerful beauty ; just as the commonest, homeliest
pieces of furniture acquire an altered
aspect when seen by the strange light and
shadows of a solitary candle in the hush of
midnight or in the half-obscurity of the grey
dawn. As for the closed poppies, like big
blood drops, and the blue corn-flowers, like
clippings of the sky, they were growing dim
and indistinct in their deepening, darkening
colour.

Sir William had a love of nature, though he
could not have expressed his feelings on the
subject very intelligibly. He liked the look
of the place at this season. He liked the occasional
rustle and chirp of birds gone to roost,
and the fitful, drowsy notes of the final evensong
of the thrush, before the bird gave way
to its rivals the nightingale, which were the
onlysounds that broke the silence.

Presently lie came in sight of the waters of
a pond  looking steely blue as a stage to its
leaden greyness, when the night had fairly
fallen. Eastham was so great in ponds and
ditches, that it would have looked as if one of
its most distinguishing attributes were wanting
if standing water, in some form, had been long
absent from the landscape. In June, flowering
rushes and flags formed a suitable fringe
to these ponds and ditches, while the former
were sometimes thickly set with the great
white cups of the water-lily, and the smaller
stars of the water ranunculus.

But it was neither water-lily nor ranunculus
that Sir William was staring at, when he
drew nearer the pond, and stepping through
the sedges, regardless of the slushy footing,
gained the brink of deep water. He had his
eye on a tuft of coarse grass, among which he
believed he discovered the tail of a water-rat 
yes, it was a water-rat, and if Yixen had been
with him, there might have been some slashing
and rare sport, for water-rats had not been
much more in Will Thwaite's way than hares
and pheasants. Presently there was a splashing,
whatever might be said of the sport,
without the aid of Vixen. Sir AYilliam's footing

gave way, and he fell into the water. It
was deeper than he had imagined, with an
oozy bottom which yielded to his weight. Ina
moment the muddy water was far above his
knees, rising breast high. He was a fair
swimmer, and would have been safe in an
open sea, in moderately calm weather, for an
hour or more ; but this small pond, when he
tried to strike out, was like a miniature submerged
forest, with roots of trees and bushes,
and a dense growth of water-plants. He could
not free himself sufficiently to swim. He was
sinking deeper every instant. He could still
keep himself afloat, principally by resting his
chin on a convenient but slender willow bough
which reached his length, and by clutching
with both hands thrust into a thicket of osiers
invading the water. But he could not pull
himself up, from the nature of the ground and
the inefficiency of his support. He had cause
to envy his decoy-duck, the water-rat, and to
suspect he might perish with as little grace ashe
and Yixen would have granted to the
denizen of the pond.

Sir William, though he had grown laconic,
was not slow to proclaim his case. ' Holloa !
as sure as fate I'll be drownded,' it is to be

feared he said, returning to his vernacular in
the exigency of the moment, and with all the
volubility which the occasion required he
shouted for help.

To his relief somebody answered him almost
immediately from no great distance.

What's ado ? Don't let go. There's no
danger.'

The last statement sounded weakly, flatteringly,
though it was uttered in a loud rather
deep voice, which might have proceeded from
a man's chest. But on Sir William's shifting
his chin by half an inch, he saw it was a
woman who Alas hastening towards him, and
did not feel surprised, in spite of his worship
of Iris Compton, that she should talk nonsense
in such a contingency.

It's much you know of it,' he protested indignantly.
'Run and fetch any man you can
find; look sharp, if you want to save me.'

That would be an uncommon clever way
of saving you,' she retorted, still advancing
quickly towards him, ' when father ain't at
home, and I don't know of any other man
within half a mile. Just do as I bid you.
Hold on like grim death, and I'll help you
out before you can say " Jack Robinson."

VOL. I. 13

What business had you down dabbling among
them water-docks ? There ain't no wild-ducks'
nests here, if that was what you were
after.'

He might have answered her that he had
the right possessed by the monarch of all he
surveyed, but he contented himself with indignantly
forbidding her to come a step nearer
to him, as soon as he saw what she was going
to try. She had slid half-way through the
fringe of rushes, and was proceeding to precipitate
herself still farther, hanging forward
with one arm extended to meet his clasp, and
the other thrown round a sapling willow
which looked perilously slim as a support for
Both.

I'll pull you down,' he remonstrated. ' Do
you want me to drown you, too ? Do what I
told you.'

And do what I tell you, you great donkey !'
she insisted unceremoniously. ' Do you mean
to keep me hanging here all night ? I'll go
bail I've as strong an arm as you any day,
unless you're as big as Dan'l Bates. There,
hold on to the bushes with one hand, and
give me the other. Try to get your foot upon
that patch of dock ; the ground shelves there

I know every inch of it  then spring!
Didn't I tell you I'd fish you out ? Don't
go to come over me with your man's strength

again.

Sir William found himself standing dripping
like a water-god, if water-gods are ever slimy
and green with duck-weed, confronting a
strong woman of his own age, and nearly his
own height, wearing a black woollen gown
and a red handkerchief knotted at her throat.
Her head was bare, and her ruffled, dark hair
was more conspicuous for its luxuriance than
for neatness of arrangement. She turned
upon him a brown face buxom even in the
weatherbeaten texture and tint of the skin.
The full red lips parted and showing the
white, glittering teeth, and the well opened,
grey eyes looking across at him with a bold,
blithe challenge, formed the most conspicuous
features.

His inspection and the thanks he was beginning
to utter were brought to a summary
conclusion. ' You'll have to come straight to
our house  it ain't a hundred yards off  and
strip, and put on some of father's clothes,
while I'll throw, yours into a bucket. I'll
rake together the fire, and you'll swallow a

132

nip of summit hot, or we'll have you took
with ague before we're done with you. Have
you heard tell there's ague in them parts,
yet?'

He followed her without resistance into the
Scrub, which might have been an enchanted
forest for him, though he was a clownish
squire, and his guide the most primitive and
plain-spoken of princesses.

She stopped abruptly and faced round on
him. She had been glancing repeatedly at
him, and she found herself on the eve of a discovery
which arrested her. * Bent you the
new Squire, Sir William, himself ?' she suddenly
charged him, with a mixture of dismay,
defiance, and lurking amusement. ' I've been
out of the way, at the death of old auntie at
the Quarries, for the better part of the spring
and summer. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and
John, I have got into a scrape, and no mistake
!' She hid her crimsoned face for a second
in rustic affront and alarm, as a child might
have done, then looked sharply up and around
her, as if she were preparing to bolt from the
consequences of her lack of ceremony in saving
the Squire. Altogether her behaviour showed
a jumble of genuine unreasoning mortification

and alarm, with a tremulous dash of diversion
at the absurdity of the situation.

He put it before her in a more satisfactory
light. ' I was such an ass as to tumble into
that beastly hole; and I believe that at this
moment I should have been lying at the foot
with my teeth clenched on a mouthful of mud,
if it had not been for your sense and pluck.
I'm no end obliged to you  that's about it,
though when I come to think of it, I don't
know that there is another human being to
say as much to you on my account. But
you'll take me to your place and do what you
can for me  won't you ?  like a kind soul ;
for, to tell the truth, I don't like to show
before my fine servants in this guise.' His
heart was warm with gratitude to his rescuer.
He had found free speech wherewith to address
the country girl, and under the influence of
his freedom, she gradually grew glib as she
was wont to be, with only a relapse now and
again into consternation  brightened by a suspicion
of a frolic, every time they became
silent. ' What's your name, if I may make
so bold?' he asked, as if she were the lady and
he the servant. All the time, he was expanding
into communicativeness, under the welcome

consciousness of no longer feeling daunted
and depressed, forced to pick and choose his
words as he had been for the last six months.
What may your father do when he is at
home T

Oh, I'm called Honor  Honor Smith ; and
father is old Abe Smith ; Abe short for Abel.
He has been one of the under-keepers for a lot
of years, so that I were born and brought up
at our cottage in Hawley Scrub here. But
father do be getting old and losing favour
with Waterpark, the head-keeper, and my
brothers did no good, but gave trouble, and
father  she were blamed for it. Ted, he 'listed ;
and young Abe, he went off to America. Now,
father and me  mother's dead before I can
remember  we're thinking of going out, in
one of them emigrant ships, to join young
Abe in the Back Woods. That name sounds
pleasant, don't it?'

A HAIR OF THE DOG THAT BIT HIM.

Abe Smith's cottage was a tumble clown,
picturesque, self-coloured lodge in the wilderness.
The interior failed to do credit to
Honor's housekeeping. Disorder reigned over
the articles, few as they were, in the family
room. The furniture was summed up in an
old oak-table, which Lady Thwaite might
have coveted, though it was battered and
standing insecurely on three legs ; a convenient
deal chest, into which everything
might be stifled ; a chair or two  that for
Abe an old armchair as black as the table ; a
cupboard with the door half off its hinges,
exposing the scanty supply of common coarse
crockery.

But the visitor had hardly time to look
around on inanimate objects, for, contrary to
expectation, the owner of the cottage was at

home. He knew Sir William by sight, though
Sir William could not profess to return the
compliment. Old Abe testified to his knowledge
by the formality with which he stood upas
fast as his stiffening joints would allow,
and removed his cap ; at the same time he
glanced with a flurried look at his daughter
for an explanation, which she did not delay.

Then Sir William received a considerable
shock as he listened to an entirely new version
of the accident.

I was a-walking round the pond with an
eye for them plaguy ducks that wander all the
way over from Mistley Down, father, when what
should 1 see but the young Squire wallowing
in the mire and water at the very worst place,
where Adams met his death. Didn't I just
run and cry, 'your honour, mind what you're
about ; don't flounder an inch farther, as you
value your life, and I'll do my best, which is
my bounden duty, to save you!" And, sure
enough, I crept through the osiers, and held
on by one hand till he gripped the other. You
know I'm strong, father, and Sir William's
active, so we struggled out of the water, and
here we are.'

Several times while she was speaking she

gave Sir William a half cunning, half comical
glance of warning and mutual intelligence, as
if she dared him to contradict her. Once, when
she passed close to him, behind her father, as
she was bustling about to make up the fire,
which was Divino: white in ashes, she muttered
so that Sir "William only could hear, ' He'll like
that way of putting it best.'

But Sir William did not like it, and shifted
his wet feet uneasily. He was a truthful man
who had never ' crammed ' a comrade, unless
in the plainest chaffing. His sister Jen would
not have told a lie to save her life. Perhaps
it was a sign of their drops of gentle blood;
perhaps it belonged to a higher order of
gentility.

There seemed the less sense in Honor
Smith's easy fabrications, that her father
looked far more pacific than savage  not a
man to fly into a fury on a small provocation.
He was behaving to his guest so deferentially
that it was difficult to separate obsequiousness
fi:*om the deference.

Sir William amazed his host by absolutely
declining spirits of any description and defying
the consequences; but he was anxious to
have his clothes dried for the reason he had

given Honor. Here a difficulty presented
itself. It was not from her father that Honor
had inherited a splendid physique. He was a
little hairy man, who, in his faded moleskins,
more tattered than patched, and weather-stained
fringed gaiters, looked shaggy all over,
like a creature of the wilds and the waters, a
badger or an otter, rather than an able-bodied
man. It seemed as if Sir William could have
put him into one of his pockets. No garment
of Abe's would be of the slightest temporary
use to Abe's master.

Dear sakes ! what are we thinking of !'
cried Honor, in scorn of her own slowness and
forgetfulness. ' There's Uncle Sam's old
regimentals in the drawer of the chest. They're
the best we have to offer, sir; and Uncle
Sam was a big man, when he were alive, every
way.'

Sir William pricked his ears at the word
regimentals, and then looked put out. What
a fool he was to mind a dead man's clothes,
though they were regimentals ! Very likely
they did not belong to any department of
the service he had known. What though he
had thought never to wear the Queen's livery
again ! It was a big lie that he had disgraced

it, beyond redemption, the last time he had
it on in the square at Xhilpoor, when he
wrenched the stripes from his arm and flung
them in his colonel's face. He must put
on the red jacket once again, at a pinch,
unless he cared to be laid on his beam-ends
with aofue, or worse, since his teeth were
beginning to chatter in his head.

Honor mistook the Squire's hesitation.

Uncle Sam's clothes are as good as new,'
she said a little huffily, preparing to pull out
what had been put away with some care in
the drawer of the chest. ' He were a good
many pegs above us, so that his toggery is
almost fit for a gentleman. I have often been
on father to sell it right away; but it do be a
kind of credit for us to have it, if it were only
to show that we hadn't all of us our backs
alius at the wall. And father there has a
notion that the things are lucky lying ready
for use, and that Ted may pick up and come
back some day as smart as them which 'listed
before him. That will happen when the
Queen axes us all to a snack, and a bed after it,
at one of the palaces. It will be as good as
airing them clothes, besides being a mighty
compliment, if you will take a turn in them.

Sir William, while I am cleaning your own
suit. Father and I will go out and leave
you to the fire and your own company, if
you'll please shift yourself before the floor is
in a swim.'

It was clear Uncle Sam had been the
great man of the family, and that it was
in seeking to pay proper honour to the Squire,
the uniform had been brought out for his
benefit.

Sir William, when left to himself, looked
with some agitation at what would have
awakened no interest in another man in his
place, if it had not excited amusement or
annoyance. He lifted up the different portions
of the dress with a kind of trepidation,
yet with yearning. It was all complete,
though a little old-fashioned. By what appeared
a singular coincidence, the rank of
Sam Smith, which he had not forfeited, must
have been the same as that to which Will
Thwaite had risen. There were the identical
stripes of which he had made short work
in his fit of frenzy. He had a glimpse of
the old soldier's sword lying gleaming in
the half shut drawer. Sir William dressed
himself punctiliously, finding the clothes not

far from his fit. Then he looked in the little
looking-glass which huns, for Honor Smith's
convenience, on the wall opposite the window
where a withered nosegay thrust into the neck
of a bottle stood on the sill. A thrill ran
through him as he retarded his impose in
the glass. He felt at home in the borrowed
clothes. He took out the sword and began
to make the accustomed passes with it. Ah !
that was a deal better than jigging like an
idiot to the prancing of another idiot, Who
could not even play his kit without the help
of another man.

Sir William was disturbed by Honor's
knock at the door. He must be quick about
changing his clothes, if she were to have
them cleaned and even partly dried before
midnight.

Was there a spell in these old regimentals
which became Sir William so well, that he
had not to wait for Abe's respectful compliments,
since he saw with gratified vanity the
admiration which shone in Honor's great grey
eyes ? How long it was since his heart
had grown warm under the influence of a
woman's inadvertently betrayed admiration !
He was not very vain, but he was sensitive

to public opinion even on his looks. In his
old estate he had been a favourite, rather
a hero, with women ; and though he had
shown himself particular in his taste, so as
to have been something of a rover who had
found no humble heroine, he did not object to
the hero-worship.

Lately it had chilled him to meet none save
critical eyes. He did not believe Miss Compton
had ever wasted a thought on his inches
or the colour of his hair  only old Lady
Fermor had ever made him feel that she found
him a well-knit, comely fellow.

He had not looked so gallant and gay,
or made himself so entirely at his ease, for
many a day. He sat at the fire and smoked
with old Abe, and heard dubious stories of
poaching scuffles, or told tales of a soldier's
life, in which Abe was interested for his son
Ted's sake, and because of gratifying memories
of the brother, who had been almost a
gentleman in the under keeper's eyes, and
who seemed to sit there again before him.

Sir William shouted thanks and jests
through the half open door into the back
kitchen, in which Honor was so obligingly
at work on his clothes. After her part

was done, there was still the dying of the
soused garments, and that necessitated the
guest's farther stay, and his taking a share in
the family supper which was pressed upon him
with the unstinted hospitality of the host's class.
The meal was composed of choicer fare
than might have been hooded for from the
rest of the establishment. There were cold
roasted leveret, pigeon-pie, and poached eggs.
An explanation was offered of the nature of
the feast, with so little disagreement between
the speakers and so few break-downs,
that a more thoughtful man than Sir William
might have come to the conclusion the father
and daughter were accomplished experts in
such apologies. Abe had found a poacher's
snare with a leveret in it, and he had taken
care that the setter of the snare should not
profit by his success. The wild pigeons had
been brought down by Key Musket's sling.
The boy meant no harm, but he must be
taught not to take such liberties in future,
as Sir William would be shooting both the
crows and the pigeons for his own and his
friends' diversion. The eggs were plovers'
eggs, which Honor had gathered as far off as
Mistley Downs.

Sir William heard every word as if it were
gospel, and did not betray the faintest suspicion
that he was eating savoury food of his
own providing  the game, pigeons, and partridges'
eggs which he paid a gang of men,
with Abe among them, for protecting from all
spoilers.

Sir William was good company on this
occasion. He was as much carried away by
reaction, old association, the spirit of defiance
which was apt to arise in the man, as if he had
swallowed bumpers of strong drink. He
joked and rattled off camp experiences. He
proved a capital listener to the annals of
the woods and fields. He was gay and hearty,
until he was nearly volunteering a song which
had been the usual accompaniment of former
merry-makings. It seemed as if his later
dreams and the very image of Iris Compton
were for the moment swept from his mind.
At last the play was played out, and Sir
William, re-debilitated in his half dry clothes,
took a cordial leave of his entertainers.

The fraternization had been complete while
it lasted, and could not have astounded others
more than it did some of the participators
in it.

Did you ever, father !' protested Honor.
If the Squire ain't one of ourselves, I can't
tell who is. Why, he has been jack-fellow
alike and no make-believe with us, ever since
I brought him in like a drowned rat. He
is the right sort to fill old Sir John's shoes.
But won't he make the stuck-up ladies and
gentlemen stare ? Ain't I quick to have been
and nabbed him in this way? Now we may
laugh in Water park's face. If we only goon
as we have begun, it may be " change seats,
the King's come," with you and he, and we
stepping into his grand cottage, and no
'Merica for us after all, before the year is
out.'

And you may be Lady Thwaite of White-hills
 is that the next thing ?' inquired Abe,
with mild scepticism and sarcasm, for he
stood in some awe of his daughter. ' And
sure enough that will be when the Queen or
the Lord Mayor bids us to a feast, or when
the world comes to an end, as is much the
same thing. It's like it is turned upside
down already, when a chap like yon have got
the property. But don't you let your fancy
cut capers and get the better of you, so
as you'll sup disappointment for your pains,
VOL. I. 14

Hon. This here lad be come of the people,
and no mistake. He ain't the specially cut
of a gentleman, though the name be Thwaite
and he do belong to the tribe. But he ain't
quite one of us neither, not he, though he may
favour your Uncle Sam as were bound to rise
in the world. The Squire couldn't take no
drink like a man, and as far as I could see
he didn't tell no crackers, neither one way
nor t'other, bouncing or sly, which if ever
man had a grand chance to do he had. It
would be like playing with fire to have to do
with he. You could never tell when you
had him or when you wanted him. He
would be off like a shot when you least
expected it. I ain't so cock-sure that there
bent the making of one sort of gentleman in
him, as gentlemen goes, the sort as is blunt 
maybe thin-skinned and peppery, but is
as nice about their word as if it was their
nails or their teeth. And when I come to
think of it, Sir William was as clean as a took
all over, like your Uncle Sam, barring the
mud be brought up out of the pond. He
may let us stay over the autumn, till we take
ship to 'Merica. Waterpark can hardly have
the face to make a stand about trumpery holds

and ends, and think for to turn us out at
the last, when he knows that you drew Sir
William by the 'airs of the 'eat, as I may
say, out of the pond ; but that's all the good
we're like to get of the adventure, if you'll
believe me for your own good, my girl, and I
am an old man. I should know summit by
this time of the day.

Like enough, father,' answered Honor indifferently,
as if she were getting weary of the
subject; 'but that's not to keep me from
putting in a claim to the Squire's acquaintance,
and getting a guinea or a five-pound
note when I've worked for it. Maybe I'll get
more, maybe no,' she added with a laugh.
Are you going the round of the walks tonight,
when Luke Evans is to be at the turnstile
about two in the morning ? If you go,
I'm with you. I'm as fond of a rove when
timid folks is in their beds, as you can be, or
young Abe or Ted ever were.'

The more's the pity, lass,' said old Abe, ina
moralising vein, ' though it do come nat'ral
to some women as to most men. Your
mother now, she were reared in the Quarries,
yet she took as easy to the woods as a fish to
the water. More by token her brothers were

142

the biggest poachers hereabout, and Mori,
he were transported for life, for his share in
such a tussle as has not been heard of since
that day. Me and Waterpark were in it, and
I was in mortal terror I should have to fire at
Marry or bear the mark of his bludgeon.
There's no doubt company's cheery,' reflected
Abe, going off on a new track, which yet had
its link with the former line of conversation :
 wandering about in the dark gets a thought
creepy and signifying as a man wears up in
years, and recalls old mates and old frays.'

Sir William, whose habits till now had been
as regular as those of any of ' the Method
parsons ' to whom he was sometimes compared,
for the first time since his coming to
Whitehills, kept his servants up late without
previous warning.

Cumberbatch, who had constituted himself
his master's keeper, experienced real anxiety
on his account. When it was relieved by the
Squire's making his appearance, the sufferer
could scarcely go so far as to take the
offender to task ; but he looked Sir William
in the face with such solemn reproach, that
the delinquent was impelled to explain. ' I
stepped into a pond a good bit off, and had

to wait in a house till mv clothes were dried.
No, I don't want any supper. No, I shouldn't
think of hot brandy-ands water. That will
do.' Sir William was himself again, cold and
reserved. Will Thwaite, open-hearted and
reckless, had been left at the cottage by
Hawley Scrub. But the Squire asked Bill
Coopers, during their next morning's ride,
what he knew of an old under-keeper and his
daughter living; together in the worst cottage
Sir William had seen on his lands.

They're a bad lot. Sir William,' answered
Bill promptly ; ' leastways old Abe ain't what
he should be. Old folk will have it Abe's
come of a queer breed, being a far-off shoot
from them squatters as made free with East-ham
when great part of it  because of the
water lying easy everywhere  was no man's
land, given over to the fowls of the air and
the fish of the fresh water seas, and to them
as liked to catch them. I don't want to tell
no tales, but Abe's failings are piper's news,
and there's a score of his neighbours as will
let you know if I don't, while the man is
going for sure across the seas in the autumn.
The wonder is that he has been kept so long ;
but old Sir John, he took it into his head

after it were a bit muddled, that Waterpark,
the head-keeper, had a spite at Smith, and he
would permit no spites, would Sir John, save
his own, which were his right like, he being
squire and master.'

Is it certain Sir John was in the wrong T
inquired his successor, as if he too were jealous
f his likes and dislikes.

Well, sir, I would not go for to contradict
you,' replied Bill, with sincere respect, ' but
Abe connected his self by marriage with
poachers notorious. That might have been
his misfortune more than his fault, but the
word went, even before Abe's sons were half
grown, that he were in league with the
poachers, and connived at their snares and
shots, instead of fighting them fair as the
other keepers fought them. There could be
no mistake about Ted and young Abe, they
soon made the country too hot to hold them.
I never heard of a Smith as was a credit to
the family save Sergeant Smith, a brother of
Abe's that enlisted when he was in his teens,
and did good in foreign parts, and only came
home to die, before he was corrupted by the
rest of the lot.'

And what about the daughter, Bill ?'

Why, if you will believe it, sir, Honor, the
girl  that is as big and strong as one of her
brothers, have took up the trade too, and is
as wild as need be. She had a bad upbringing.
Her mother, such as she was, died when
the lass was in her cradle ; but what finished
her off, years and years gone, was that a
young chap with whom she kep' company
had a hole drilled through his shoulder, one
September night, and were taken up and died
of the wound in Birkett gaol. She's the
strappingest lass going,' Bill said with some
lurking admiration, ' and I don't say she ain't
an honest woman. She's kep' men at the
staff's end  all but poor Hughie Guild 
and he would be a bold man who would look
soft on Honor Smith, or speak sweet to her
against her will. She's a regular randy, nigh
as bad as a gipsy. She's never in the house
save to cook her father's meals. She ain't up to
sweeping or charing, or even dressing herself
fine like other women, not since Hughie met
his end, and that is good six or seven years
gone, when she was a slip of a handsome girl ;
but the word goes she can tramp day or night,
and keep out of the way when she's wanted, and
set a snare, and bring down a bird, and dodge,

and lie, and toss ois a glass neat  not that I
ever heard tell of her being seen in drink, like
old Abe's self. That's all I've got to say of
them Smiths, if you please, Sir William.'

The description did not please Sir William,
but he gave no sign. He vouchsafed an explanation
to Bill, as the master of the house
had offered an excuse to his butler, and he
drew an inference which he had already drawn
more than once before.

I was indebted to these people last night,
Bill. I fell like a big baby into the pond,
near their door, and the girl you speak of
gave me a leg-up  when it was touch and go
with me, for I had no room to swim  as if I
had been the girl and she the man. Of course
you did not know this when you spoke, and I
didn't ought to have asked you a question
without telling you first. But you understand
I don't care to hear the Smiths spoke
badly of, after this.'

No, sir. I beg your pardon, sir. I hope
you believe me, I wouldn't speak harm of no
friend of yours, not if I snowed it, for my
wages twice told,' cried Bill with genuine
regret, for he was quickly acquiring a warm
regard for his master.

But the servant's private reflection was,
Lord, to think of his making friends with
them Smiths, as if he were the forlornness
wretch in the kingdom ; and he Sir William,
and the Squire of AVhitehills, with half of the
gentlemen and ladies in the county ready to
strike their hands in his, I'll go bail, if he'll
only five them time ! The may say what
they like of his smelling of the barrack-yard,
and not of the officers' quarters there ; either
he's too good for this world, or one sick of his
lone position.'

Afterwards the servants' hall at AVhitehills
learnt all the details of the accident, as the
world below stairs does not fail to ascertain,
in spite of the absence of direct information
from the fountain-head, what that other world
above stairs has been doing. These judges
picked up the additional information that Sir
William had been over to see the Smiths,
once or twice, during the next fortnight. Mr.
Cumberbatch merely turned up his nose in
silence, and thought it was what he might
have expected, from a baronet's unseemly preference
for a young groom over a middle-aged
butler. Bill, too, was silent, but he groaned
within himself.

He ain't fit to take care of himself. Why
don't some of his own kind, the kind he's in
now, look after him ? There's the old lady
over at Lambford, what runs after him as if
she were a gal herself ; but they do say shea
devil's hip, if ever there was one. Why
don't Sir John's wider stay here till he's
served with a wife, or take the Squire to bide
with her at Netherton ?' questioned poor Bill
unreasonably, and with a fine disregard of the
proprieties in the amendment he proposed to
institute. ' I'm blowed if I can tell for what
the like of she is charged on the estate, if it
ain't to do for the Squire when he wants her.
If I were my lady, I wouldn't take my wages
and give no work for them,' concluded Bill,
rubbing down the horse he was grooming with
virtuous vigour.

Possibly Lady Thwaite's notion of doing
for Sir William differed slightly from Bill's,
but she was not without a conscience on that
point.

MISS compton's ball.

Lady Fermor was as good as her word. She
brought Lord Fermor up to that point of
recovery which made it permissible and not
outrageous that a ball should take place in his
house of Lambford, where he was draofonnor
out his weary days.

The ball had come to be called Miss Compton's
ball, without any objection on the part
of Lady Fermor, although she suggested an
improvement.

It may also bear the name of my worthy
young neighbour, Sir William Thwaite,' said
the old lady demurely. ' It is his first ball in
Eastham, as it is my grand-daughter's first
ball at Lambford. Let it be Miss Compton
and Sir William Thwaite' s ball, if you please.
Awkward to couple the two names together,
do you think ? Oh ! I don't mind it declared

Lady Fermor, with such an unblushing amount
of candour that it sounded as if there were
something under it, something to excuse the
indiscretion.

But the persons appealed to judged that the
union of names was premature, to say the least.
Even supposing Miss Compton and Sir William
had got so far as a betrothal. England was
not Germany, where betrothals were announced
like marriages, and betrothed pairs appeared
in public together the same as husband and
wife. The proposal savoured of the indecorum
for which Lady Fermor at the best had been
distinguished, while only to call the ball Miss
Compton' s ball really relieved some excellent
people from rankling scruples. It was one
thing to hasten to stand by poor Lis Compton 
who, while one of themselves, was guiltless of
the smallest offence against morals, and another
to flock to a ball of Lady Fermor' s, even
though a long lapse of years had softened the
turpitude of her misdeeds. As for Lady
Fermor, she did not care what the hypocrites
and fools called the ball if they came to it, and
it served her purpose.

Mr. Mildmay and his wife lent Lambford
their countenance for the event. He was

simply and strictly polite as usual. She looked
frightened to speak or move lest she should
compromise herself, while she stuck to her
husband like his shadow, as if she might require
his protection at any moment.

Does the o:ood woman think I shall take a
bite of her ?' protested Lady Fermor, in one of
her slight asides. But both Mrs. Mildmay
and Lady Fermor knew it was not being bitten
but being socially contaminated that the lady
dreaded. It was a little compensation to her
for being' draiJfoed down to face this horrible
ordeal, to be able to take stock, covertly, of
the possessions among which she was to reign
as the future Lady Fermor. Mrs. Mildmay
did not count Iris one of these possessions,
and would almost as soon have proposed to be
on confidential terms with the wicked old
grandmother as with the innocent young
granddaughter. In fact Mrs. Mildmay,
though she was not a colourless, cowardly,
self-engrossed woman when she happened to
be at large, had very little doubt that Miss
Compton's innocence was nothing better thana
callow stage of wickedness, and felt disposed
to regard it as more insidious, if less repulsive,
than the advanced stages.

Iris was glad to turn from the chill and
mortification of Mrs. Mildmay's unawed reserve,
and her constant withdrawal to her
husband's side, to the friendly presence of
Lucy Acton, who had been allowed to spend
a few days at Lambford to support Iris on the
great occasion of her ball. It was something
like a preparation for home gaiety to have
Lucy on one of her rare visits, and to grow
enthusiastic in her company over the dresses,
the decorations, the dancing, the supper. Iris
would have taken delight in them all of her
own accord had she not been behind the scenes,
whereas Lucy was not only an outsider, she
happened to be a matter-of-fact girl, who took
things as she found them, and did not seek to
look below the surface. She was a good
daughter, and an assiduous helper of her
father and mother, both with the parish and
the younger children. She was a faithful
friend to Iris, and paid back with easy fondness
the girl's fervent affection. But Lucy
Acton was not gifted either with much sensitiveness
of feeling or discrimination of character.
She was inferior to Iris both in heart
and mind. Her personal appearance was of
less consequence; but in this case the body

reflected the spirit. Lucy Acton was a well-grown,
rather comely, but perfectly 
young gentlewoman, the colour
of whose hair and eyes, and the shape of whose
nose and mouth, though they were all quite
well defined, her acquaintances were constantly
in danger of forgetting:. A crown on her
head and a sceptre in her hand would not
have made her look otherwise than a contented
every-day individual. It was not
modest unconsciousness which was at the
bottom of her merits, it was rather an incapacity
of apprehending anything better than her
own qualities. But Lucy was worth a great
deal to Iris, and the solitary girl warmed into
something of the pride and pleasure which the
ball at home called for. The two girls were
excitedly comparing notes on all the important
items that belong; to such an entertainment 
surreptitiously inspecting the ball-room and
supper-room  dwelling in delighted half-mystification
on what was to be the distinguishing
characteristic of the evening  fluttering from
Iris's room to Lucy's to gaze upon this dress or
that, and compare these flowers and those, and
study the programme till they had it by heart.
It must be so nice for you to have a ball

at Lambford, clear,' said Lucy in all sincerity.
You are the young lady of the house, and
therefore the queen of the ball. It is for you
to confer honour and bestow pleasure, though
you may kindly share your good things.
Won't you like it very much? I am so glad
Lady Fermor thought of it at last.'

Yes, it is kind of grand mamma,' said Iris,
hesitating a little, with a momentary cloud
coming over her small face. ' Of course I
like to have a ball of my own, and to invite
my friends. They are not very many  now
that is one drawback,' she remarked quickly.
Other girls are happy in loads of home relations
and family friends. Where there is an
affair of this kind, the house itself is overflowing
with kindred near and remote. But
grandpa and grand mamma are old, and have
outlived whole generations, and that makes a
difference,' she broke off with a sigh.

She had conjured up a vision such as she
had read of, rather than seen, of a girl with
loving sisters and brothers, with a mother of
whom she was proud, who held her child dear,
and a father whom she could trust implicitly,
who guarded her as the apple of his eye  a
family who were among the salt of the earth,

whose friendship was coveted and prized by
like-minded people, arriving in troops to take
part in their festival.

But in that case you would not be the one
queen, with an undisputed, undivided sovereignty.
I know there are girls who hate the
idea of rivals, even in their own family, and
are ready to be thankful that they have no
sisters to come in and claim any portion of the
attention that falls to their share. But there
is no use in speaking of them, for I know you
are not a bit like them. As for myself, I must
say I should not care to be without King Lud,
and Susan, and George, and the rest  not to
say without the poor dear father and mother 
to be handed back to a former generation. I
have not more than one grandmother living,
the kindest granny in the world, at Birkett,
you know, Iris,' said the literal Lucy. ' But
it's the will of Providence, and we must all
submit to the will of Providence,' she quoted
glibly from her stereotyped speeches by cottage
sick-beds and in the Sunday-school. ' We
ought to make the best of things, and to feel
contented and cheerful, as I know you do.
Iris. Only I don't know why you let your
deprivations  we all have our deprivations 

VOL. I. 15

it would not be good for us if we had not 
crop up on the afternoon of your ball. You
are not badly off for a birthday treat this year,
and I do hope that Mr. and Mrs. Mildmay
behave well to you.'

Iris winced a little at this suggestion, even
from Lucy Acton. Neither of the girls knew
a great deal of the old, miserable embroilments
of the family, but they were acquainted with
the general outline  that Tom Mildmay was
the son of Lord Fermor's younger brother,
who had, further, married a sister of the first
Lady Fermor. It was understood that there
had been an entire breach between the two
branches of the family for many years, and
that though young Mildmay submitted to a
patched-up reconciliation for his own interest,
he looked with hostile eyes, under his cold
courtesy, on Lady Fermor and all her belongings.
Iris, though she was his cousin once
removed, was also Lady Fermor's granddaughter
and heiress. In the last light she
was likely to contest with Mr. Mildmay such
money as the old Lord could ' will away,'
either with or from the entailed estate. When
it is further taken into consideration that Tom
Mildmay was a married man and the father of

a family, that he had only the modest income
of a moderately successful barrister, tacked onto
Lord Fermor's allowance to his heir-at-law,
wherewith to maintain his household, it maybe
around that he would have been more than
human if he had been able to entertain a
strong regard for Iris. Perhaps it was to the
credit of both that, in their formal intercourse,
he could preserve towards her a species of
neutrality.

My dear Lucy, there is not a fault to be
found with the Mildmays' behaviour, unless,
indeed, they behave too well,' replied Iris
hastily.  They are never off their good behaviour,
as people sometimes say of children,
with rather a stand-off result, to be sure.'

Then you ought to be satisfied,' Lucy
hastened to say, with a tone of sensible,
affectionate reproach. ' You should not spoil
your grand birthday ball with crying for the
moon, and raising up bugbears of trials and
troubles.'

 I don't mean to spoil anything,' insisted
Iris, still a little ruefully. 'But it is not my
birthday ball  that is another contradiction;
my birthday was on the 29th of June, as you
remembered, when you sent me that pretty,

152

kind card. I spent it all alone without even
you to speak to ; grandpa was lying at his
worst, grand mamma would not come down,
and she did not care for me to go up and help
her to nurse him. But I did try to submit
and make the best of things. It was a lovely
day, and I had a new book which I cared for,
and took with me into the woods. Fancy
how delightful they were while they were still
fresh and full of flowers, and all the birds were
singing ! Mrs. Pole had baked a cake for my
express benefit, and Susan and George ran
over to inquire for grandpa, in time for
afternoon tea, and helped me to eat it. Then
we heard poor grandpa was better, and had
enjoyed some hours of refreshing sleep. I am
not sure whether a ball like this which we are
going to have, would have made me so very
much happier on my real birthday than I was
after all.'

That is going to the opposite extreme and
talking nonsense still,' said Lucy briskly. ' I
won't have you grow unsocial ; but it is more
likely you will have your little head turned
with the compliments and flattery and all
that sort of thing which you will be receiving
presently. My chief concern about the ball's

not being on your birthday, is whether it is
quite right to call it a birthday ball when it
isn't,' debated Lucy with her judicial, puritanical
air, which she had acquired betimes
from her early career as a clergyman, while
it was at the same time perfectly honest, like
everything else about her. Then she solved
the difficulty like a loyal gentlewoman and
daughter of the Church of England, ' AVell,
the Queen very often keeps her birthday on
the wrong day.' She got rid of her doubt on
the instant, and turned to another consideration.
' It is rather a pity that it is later in
the season than the 29th of June, for then it
was moderately cool, while the 30th of July
is really too hot for anything save a garden-party.
I wonder Lady Fermor did not change
the ball into a garden-party. Iris.'

She was set on the ball and had made her
arrangements ; besides, I fancy garden-parties
were not so common when she was young.
However, we are to have something of the
kind too, and you will be there, Lucy. Mind
you must not cheat us of our due, and escape
to a mothers' meeting, or a cottage-reading at
the other end of the parish. The Mildmays
have half consented to stay and go, and Lady

Thwaite is to preside, though it was grand-mamma's
idea, and I believe it was her influence
which brought it about.'

I am not going to make any difficulty ; I
am not often in such request,' said Lucy
merrily. ' I enjoy a treat just as much as the
school-children do. But you have never told
me where this one is to be.'

At Whitehills, at Sir William Thwaite's,'
said Iris composedly.  He is to have the
second cutting of hay in the water meadows
just beyond the park, tomorrow. We are all
to go down after luncheon to look on at the
hay-making, and I suppose to help also, if we
have a weakness for playing at Daphne and
Chloe. Lady Thwaite is to give us tea in
her old drawing-room. Poor soul ! I daresay
she will not like it, though she can laugh
and carry off her troubles as well as most
people. The Rector thinks she has behaved
beautifully to Sir William, though, as you
say, we all have our deprivations. Oh, Lucy !'
went on Iris, in the rambling manner of a
person who is saying everything that is
crowding into her head  without stopping to
classify the materials  on one of the rare
occasions when she had a friend's ears to pour

it into. ' I should not be surprised if the
Hollises were there. Grandmamma will take
care that they have an invitation. I think the
hay-making will help us to subside gracefully
into our usual soberness. I have only been
at two or three balls before, and I confess I
felt headachy and dawdling and do nothings
for days after the ball.'

Lucy had heard the name of the host, and
of his local habitation, with a modified ' Oh!'

She was too busy a girl to be quite familiar
with all the last confident gossip which served
to confirm idle guesses and audacious prognostications.
But she knew enough to have
put it, in so many words, to any other girl as
intimate with her as Iris Compton, whether
she were going to marry Sir William Thwaite,
taking it for granted that it was by Lady
Termor's desire and according to her arrangement.
But somehow Lucy could not ask
such a question of Lis Compton. Girls,
especially fairly educated, well-bred girls, maybe
very good friends, without (if some men
will forgive the exception) exchanging love-confidences.
In this case there was none to
exchange. Iris had none; and if she had, the
greater depth and delicacy of her nature would

have made her shy of confiding it, till the very
last moment, to her dearest friend. Lucy
went so far as to complain laughingly of presuming
curates, while she was still so popular
among them, and so helpful to them, that Iris
shook her head privately, and feared selfishly
that Lucy must fall a victim to one of her
court of clerical squires at last. But Lucy
was steady and conscientious, and till the
right man came, she was above either entering
on petty flirtations for their own sake, or with
the sillier intent of inflicting their rise and
progress, scrapes and catastrophes, on an unfortunate
bosom-friend.

It seemed only the other day that Iris and
Lucy Acton had speculated, with the rest of
their world, on the anomaly of a clownish
squire at Whitehills, and asked each other if
he would be fit to enter a drawing-room, and
how they should shake hands with him when
he might swing their arms like the hands of
a pendulum or crush their rings into their
fingers. What should they find to say to him,
especially if they wished to propitiate him 
supposing Lucy sought a subscription for her
pet cottage hospital or any one of her missions,
and Iris was solicitous to abet her ?

When brought to the test the difficulty had
not proved so insurmountable to a girl with
an exceptionally tender heart and single mind.
But Lucy had only an inkling of this, while it
struck her that Sir William's name was constantly
coming up in the conversation.

On Iris's tablets, which were not left clean
ivory, it was recorded that she was to have
Mr. Hollies for her first partner, while Mr.
Milkman was to dance with Mrs. Hollies.
This was a piece of county etiquette. Iris,
attain, was to waltz the first waltz with Tom
Mildmay as a piece of family etiquette.

And I hope you will give the third dance
to King Lud,' suggested Lucy, using her
brother Ludovic's family nickname.

Xo, nothing quite so good,' answered Iris.
I am to have Sir William for my third partner.'


But can he dance ? are you sure ?' urged
Lucy, in alarm for the consequences. ' Will
he not trample on your toes till they are like
a jelly, or tear your skirt to tatters ?'

Oh no !' answered Iris, laughing fearlessly.
At least grand mamma vouches for him, and
scouts at any doubt. It is only a quadrille,
so that I cannot come to great grief. But I

don't think he would attempt what he knew
nothing about. He has sense and observation.
You must remember I have seen a good deal of
him since grand mamma has received him into
high favour. I have not seen her make so much
of anybody for a long time ; she keeps him
mostly to herself, but occasionally I have
to talk to him, or play to him, or take a turn
with him on the terrace. It is not nearly so
awkward and uncomfortable, or so much of a
drag as we feared. I believe he is rather a
nice fellow. Plain ? Oh ! without any pretence,
homely, and not particularly bright,
though it is hard to judge of a man brought
up quite differently from ourselves. He never
drinks anything save water, because he promised
to a friend that he would not touch
strong drink. Then you know Jenny Rogers,
the little table-maid out of your class, whom
I like so much ? she tells me that she has a
brother a groom up at Whitehills ; since the
rain and heat he has been attacked with
rheumatic fever, and Dr. Snell is attending
him at the Whitehills offices. Sir "William
goes to see Bill Rogers every day, and lifts
him in his arms, as if he were the servant and
Bill the master. He offered to read to him to

ease the pain and help to pass the time, just ashe
has read the newspapers to grandmamma
during a fit of her gout. The book was to be
what the lad liked, but he had no choice, so
that Sir William took over * Tom Brown's
School-days,* which I had told him to get,
when we happened one day to speak of boys'
sports. I am so proud of having mentioned
it, because he said it was first-rate. I declare,'
said Iris impulsively, with her sweet smile, ' I
am falling quite in love with poor Sir William,
though he is a rough diamond. His eyes are
like a woman's, or like a dumb animal's when
it is trying to make itself understood.'

It was a frank announcement, which did
not sound promising, and Lucy did not mistake
it for a moment.

Lady Termor had ordered a dress for her
grand-daughter from a court dressmaker, and
the old lady turned out certain jewels fi-om
her jewel-case for Iris to wear. Had the girl
known their history, the thought of it would
have burnt into her pure, just soul as if the
jewels were red-hot and scorching her tender
flesh ; but Iris did not know, and her ignorance
was more than bliss, it was unsullied righteousness.


Lady Fermor had spared nothing for the
occasion. She had even condescended to consult
Lady Thwaite on what novel luxury,
elegance, or eccentricity would bestow eclat
on the ball. Formerly Lady Fermor's attempts
in this direction had tended to aristocratic, but
rather riotous orgies. She now sought to
establish a different character for Lis's ball,
and so was willing to compete for another
more subdued and subtle distinction. She
was asking the suffrages of the neighbours,
and she made a concession to their prejudices
to the extent of letting it be known that Miss
Compton's ball was to be a ball pure and
simple. There was to be no cosy room with
green tables to attract stragglers from the
chalked floors. For once play was abjured
at Lambford.

Lady Thwaite had suggested a foreign
fashion of dancing the cotillon. It certainly
called for expensive accessories, but it might
be new in Eastham, though it had been ridden
to death half-a-dozen seasons ago in London,
and had fallen back in a great measure on its
native ground of French and Austrian ballrooms.
But Lady Thwaite could think of
nothing better as a surprise to tickle and

charm the natives, and Lady Fermor adopted
the device.

Iris and Lucy met to put the finishing-touches
to each other's toilets. Iris's costume
was made up of white silk, tulle, and lilies,
with long grassy leaves. It might have been
looked down upon as insipid, tame, and old-fashioned
by the man-milliner Worth and his
prostrate American and English worshippers,
but she had never worn anything so befitting
her youth and beauty. As she looked at herself
in the long mirror, her face beamed with
girlish gladness at her own fair image. It
beamed still more brightly, though bashfully,
when Lucy cried out in honest exultation,
Iris, dear, you look  I won't say how you
look,' for she knew Iris, however pleased by
her friendly admiration, would still feel
affronted if she were told to her face that she
was beautiful. ' Your dress is charming.
Madame deserves her reputation and her
prices,' with a little sigh, for poor Lucy  one
of the many children of a much-hampered
clergyman  had to be satisfied with an old
pink silk of her mother's which had seen
much service, but was still supposed to pass
muster when covered with fresh tarlatan.

I am SO happy you like everything about
me said Iris, with her soft blushes ; ' but if
love were not blind, you would see that all is
needed where there is a face like a Queen
Anne's sixpence, and a big bump to be concealed
by real thatch,' and she stirred with
her forefinger the silken tangle above the disproportionate
forehead.

The next moment Iris forgot herself in inventing
improvements on Lucy's dress. She
would gladly have given her fi:-iend a new
gown for the occasion, while Lucy and her
mother would not have been too proud to
accept the gift. But Iris, though a prospective
heiress, had little more pocket-money at
her disposal than Lucy possessed. Neither
was Iris at liberty to transfer for a night one
of the diamonds glittering at her throat and
waist, and on the band passed through her
hair. It was only her love, taste, and skill,
and a few perishing flowers, which Iris could
lavish on her friend. But Iris looped up here,
and gathered together there, and festooned
with ferns and Meant de canaille roses, till Lucy
protested with gratification she would not have
known her gown, and that Iris had far too
clever fingers for anybody save a dressmaker.

 When all other trades fail, I shall try
dressmaking, Lucy'' promised Iris.

Yes, but there must come a revolution
first,' objected conservative Lucy.

There is not much of you, but we have
made the most of it,' said Lady Fermor, when
Iris went to show herself. The mistress of
Lambford spoke fiom the superbness of her
purple velvet and ermine, which only royalty,
condemned to wear robes of state, or eighty
years of age, with an icy finger on its veins,
could have borne on a July night after the
Goodwood races had sounded the retreat to
the rear-guard of fashion fi:om suffocating
London rooms. ' See that you do the best for
yourself, child,' said the ancient oracle, ' and
make your hay when the sun shines. Don't
be such a fool as to think you are everybody's
bargain, and lose the only chance that may
fall to your lot.'

Iris was accustomed to her grandmother's
speeches. She had got into the habit of not
stopping to analyze them when they held anything
enigmatical. Adhere was the good of
pulling words to* pieces in order to find beneath
them gall and wormwood, ashes, golden
powder from the great image of Mammon,

stamped small and strewn on the water which
men and women were to drink for their daily
refreshment ?

The little-used ball-room at Lambford was
one of the finest, least-spoilt rooms in the
house. Iris's taste and dexterous fingers had
been there too in the decorations. She had
laughed to herself as she indulged in her little
spurt, at the aesthetic mania with which she
was so familiar from her studies of Punch and
the other illustrated papers. She had introduced
the great tawny discs of sunflowers and
shields of peacocks' feathers among the drapery
of ivy, Virginian creeper, and clematis. ' Even
Punch, and Toby, and " the Colonel," of whom
one has read, would own the effect was good if
they were here to-night.'

IRIS WITH THE BALL AT HER FOOT.

The guests, though there was a shade of shyness
and stiffness about them at first, because
they were conscious of replacing a different
company, did not disgrace the scene. True,
Mrs. Milkman was more colourless than ever
in her pale grey satin. She would have liked,
if she had dared, to have her gown black, and
to wear no ornaments but her pearls, which
might have stood for congealed tears of
reluctance and consternation. She drew Mr.
Mildniay aside into the conservatory, and
begged him to tell her which were the least
objectionable people present. She got into a
sc ire, and pointed out the Hollies's party as
certainly disreputable.

My dear Amelia replied the harassed
gentleman, ' it is quite right that you should

VOL. I. ] 6

be particular about the company you keep, no
husband worthy of the name could blame his
wife for being careful on such an important
point. But for heaven's sake don't go into a
panic and do yourself and me irreparable
injury. Seem ember this is to be our future
home, and these are to be our neighbours.
There is nothing wrong with anybody here
to-night, unless it be that stout, bottle-nosed
man in the corner, whom there is not the
slightest occasion for you to notice. Lady
Fermor knows better than to have us down to
countenance her old associates ;' and the small,
pompous man, who was to be the future Lord
Termor, spread out his chest, and brushed up
his flaxen hair, which was in a higher top
than usual, and drew his fingers through the
Piccadilly weepers ' of his long moustache
and beard.  Besides, the old woman is not
such a fool as to compromise that girl and the
lout on whom she is to be bestowed. I wish
they would take themselves farther off than
Whitehills, certainly ; but the rank-and-file
Baronet may be more easily dealt with than a
finer gentleman. Now, just to show you how
much you may be mistaken, and how near
you may go to impairing our future comfort

here, the very people you have singled out as
objectionable are the most unexceptionable in
the whole room, so far as birth, fortune, anti
irreproachable antecedents go.'

 You don't say so, Thomas !'

Fact, I assure you. Indeed, the family is
so irreproachable that the present people must
needs trade on their immunity from scandal,
and begin to play pranks. HoUis is of a very
old Eastham family, who have left their estates
unencumbered  not the usual practice Truth
the gentry here  neither will he impair them.
He is an excellent man and admirable magistrate,
though not so much master in his own
house as he is on the bench. Mrs. Hollies had
a large fortune and is equally well descended
she is nearly related to the Marquis of
Eastham's family  all of which is perhaps at
the bottom of the mischief. I mean these
people can do anything they like, and they,
especially the young people among them, have
chosen lately to revive many of the tricks and
tomfooleries of a former generation. I cannot
help thinking it is a pity, but there is no
serious harm in it, and it must be overlooked
in their case. You can see for yourself what
thorough aristocrats these two pretty girls are,

162

though they have early shown themselves fond
of making people stare.'

Tom Mildmay's definition of the Hollises
was not a bad one. Either they and their
actions were a singular relic remaining of the
rudely healthy thoughtlessness, half-haughty
hoydenishness and half-refined, half-barbarous
horse-play of their predecessors, or else the
existence of these qualities was one sign
among-st others that in the moral as in the
physical revolutions of the world, wee are
constantly going back to a good deal that wt,
were fain to hope we had outlived. Thus the
puritanism of the Commonwealth was replaced
by the licence of Charles II. 's reign, and the
virtues of good King George Iii's court were
replaced by the vices of the Regency, and so
another honourable standard seems sinking
before fastness and rowdyism in quarters where
simple folk would least have expected to find
them  before mammon-worship, fraudulent
trading, vicious books, plays and music, and
the worst French fashions, with scepticism and
superstition walking hand in hand. At such
eras old quips and cranks and odd traditional
practices come to the front again. Such were
the unbridled giddy love of fun  not ending

with boyhood or girlhood  and the feather-headed
unscrupulous devotion to frolic for
which nobody was responsible, that had distinguished
the Marquis of Eastham's race
when its members were contemporaries of the
wits and bullies of the earlier Georgian
chronicles. The same characteristics had reappeared
strongly marked in the family lately.
It was a remarkable testimony to the influence
of blood and to the truism that there is
nothing new under the sun, so that biography
must repeat itself, to discover how decided the
attributes were in a branch from the main
line, consisting mostly of women, like the
Hollises. For the sons were rarely at home,
and Mr. Hollies, representing generally the sole
male element in the family, had no quicksilver
blood in his veins. In spite of his combined
gravity and benevolence, he proved totally
unable to cope with the hereditary tendency
in his daughters.

Mrs. Hollies had laughed and grown fat, like
Lady Thwaite. She was in a measure hors
de combat where active sport was concerned.
But she would not stand in the way of nonsense
 which she enjoyed with the zest of the
youngest engaged in it, or hinder her girls in
their maddest escapades.

It wos difficult to believe what these two
stately-looking nymphs, certainly with roguery
peeping out, now and again, from beneath the
stateliness, had dared to do and to leave undone.
All Eastham would have been up in
arms against the culprits, if they had not been
the Hollises, who might do anything.

Maudie and Nanny HoUis had dressed
themselves like farmers' daughters, and driven
ti market cart through Cavesham, stopping at
every door when required, measuring out and
selling peas and early potatoes, blackberries
and cherries, much as Sarah Jennings, the
future Duchess of Marlborough, dispensed
oranges, for a wager, in the streets of
London.

The Misses Hollies were never out of their
mail phaeton, during the summer, when they
had a brother at home. They coaxed him tolet
one of the girls blow the horn, and the
troop had been known to draw up, and invite
each marvelling stray pedestrian they met to
avail himself of their cattle and trap.

Sometimes zeal for the improvement of the
human kind was engrafted on the family foible.
The young ladies would arm themselves with
a formidable array of brushes, brooms, and

pails, and force an entrance into a cottage
closed for the day. Dainty hands would
splash and sweep and souse with such goodwill,
that the cottagers, returning from toilsome
field-work, craving sluttish rest, would
stand transfixed before a dwellings reeking: and
running down with cleanliness, and half-dried
whitewash. Every chair and table had been
ousted to undergo soaping and scrubbing ;
every cherished old secret hole, full of rubbish,
stood gaping in emptiness, in the garish light
of day. It never appeared to occur to the
imperious, gleeful philanthropists what their
feelings mioiit have been if Thornbrake, withall
their pet retreats, had been so assaulted,
taken by storm, and well-nigh washed and
swept ofi* the face of the earth.

At another time it would be the children
the girls would rout out of their hiding-places
and hunt into the Hollises' school, which was
under no officious, troublesome Board. There
the young idea was taught to shoot in a wholly
fitful and grotesque manner. According to
the amateur schoolmistress' moods they
would set their small scholars such astounding
lessons as no youthful brain could compass,
which drove the juvenile fry and their

parents to the verge of despair. Or Nanny
Hollies would undertake to enact the entire
drama of ' Punch and Jude ' for the benefit
of the assembly.

Withal, the Hollises were kind-hearted in
their heedlessness. It was a rarer event than
thoughtful people might have feared, for the
girls to turn upon their victims and, after
teasing, tempting, and confounding them,
either toss them aside or trample them underfoot,
in impatience with anyone's being so
silly as not to know his or her place, or in the
high-spirited experimenters' eagerness to find
some other jolly game. Whole and half-sovereigns
of the Hollises, which to be sure
they never missed, were continually finding a
way into Lucy Acton's or her father's purse,
so as to salve, in the people's day of distress,
what wounds had been dealt to the pride
which still survived in the stolid day-labourers,
and doltish, unskilled mechanics of
Eastham.

Nanny and Maudie Hollies were the most
simply dressed girls in the room, but for the
gleam of some of their mother's jewels, to
which Lady Fermor's ill-gotten gems had
been nothing. The sisters sat demurely by

Mrs. HoUis's side, and it was only those that
knew the madcaps best, who entertained an
unerring apprehension that the long, sleepy-looking
eyes  the true Eastward eyes, under
the well-pencilled brows, were glancing out
from beneath their lids in search of prey.

Lady Thwaite's weeds had passed gracefully
into black satin and bugles, and a Queen
Mary cap. She had fulfilled what had been
expected of her. She had brought with hera
train of young nephews, and nieces, and
cousins, to whom any ball was welcome.
She was sincere in seeking that neither Miss
Compton's ball, nor the great coup) which
Lady Thwaite had herself inaugurated, should
prove a fiasco ; only if either did she was not
called upon to cry over it. She was easy in
her mind with respect to hedging, so far as
any woman could perform that prudent, manly
measure, where the ball and any results that
might follow the ball were in question.

The officers from Birkett had appeared to a
man, and Lady Thwaite was taking some of
those she knew into her confidence about her
special part of the programme. When the
best that could be brought forward was said
of Sir William, he was not the man who could

be chosen with any prospect of a successful
issue  nay, with anything save trembling
apprehension  to figure as a master of the
ceremonies in a jeu-de-societe. There he
stood, half-hidden among a knot of men atone
of the doors, so that though many an eye
was turned upon him, and many a whisper
breathed his name, he did not suffer from an
overwhelming consciousness of observation.
He could pass muster, tugging at his gloves,
in his well-fitting dress coat, with the camellia
which Lady Fermor had herself picked for
him, stuck in his button-hole.

Iris had danced with Mr. Mollis, and
received the kindest encouragement from
the white-bearded, indulgent, too indulgent
master of Thornbrake, whom his wife and
daughters set at nought, coaxed and laughed
at as ' poor old dad and ' Peter,' whereas he
was not a descendant of the old Hollises for
nothing, and his Christian name in reality was
Adrian.'

Iris had waltzed her punctilious waltz with
her cousin till, before the three rounds were
ended, she felt alarmingly infected by his
solemnity. She was glad to exchange her
partner for Sir William, who went through

the quadrille to the admiration of the sceptical
and the credit of his dancing-master, though
not without some loss of equanimity.
' Poor man,' Iris secretly compassionate
him, * how pale he has grown ! surely the
game is not worth the candle.' At the same
time she darted a triumphant challenge of the
eyes to Lucy. ' Shall I introduce them?' Iris
pondered. ' Of course the Rector has called,
and Sir William knows some of the family,
but I think this is the first time he has happened
to meet Lucy, and she has been sitting
for the last dance. He would not be a bad
partner if he would appear to forget what he
is doing, and not leave his partner to find all
the small-talk. He looks as well as any man
present. I am not sure he does not look better.
His figure is not at all bad, if it were not so
bolt upright"; then he has got quite beautiful
eyes, and I like his chestnut hair. If Lucy
were very captivating she might pave the way
for a handsome subscription to her Cottage
Hospital. He could afford it, for grand-mamma
is always saying what a fine estate
Whitehills is.'

Iris's good intentions were nipped in the
bud by Lady Thwaite's claiming Sir William

and carrying him off in mystified reluctance
to be presented to Maudie Hoi lis. This
movement was the consequence of a short
conversation which had passed between the
two ladies.

'Where is Orson, Lady Thwaite?' inquired
the younger. ' You don't tell me that he is
dancing with Iris Compton? What next ?
He will be found able to read and write, and
then he will be like everybody else ; he will
not be worth his salt.'

My dear child!' exclaimed Lady Thwaite.
She was a little nettled, for Sir William,
though she could laugh at him when it suited
her, was her late husband's heir and her
protege. Like many women, when she was
piqued she became specially affectionate with
a sort of bitter-sweet affectionately. Besides,
she had known the Hollies girls all their lives,
and felt free to take them to task. ' I should
not wonder, Maudie, though he were better
read for a man than you are for a woman.
Every class can command wonderful advantages
now. Sir William had a fair elementary
education, and he is a reading man.'

He may easily be better read than we are,'
said Maudie Hollies unblushingly, ' if he has

gone beyond a few novels, which make me
yawn all the time I am reading them, though
they are said to be naughty, and it was rather
good fun smuggling them into the house,
under papa's nose, in the guise of histories and
sermons. But Sir William Bumpkin is disappointing,'
went on Maudie with a pout.
What is the use of the fine story of the man's
having been a private soldier, if he is to be
just like every other partner we meet ? But I
mean to give him another chance. Won't you
introduce him, Lady Thwaite?'

Certainly.'

Lady Thwaite brought him over, and, to
her gratification, Sir William went through
the introduction with a coolness which would
have been miraculous had it not admitted of
an explanation. The well-filled room contained
only one woman for Sir William
Thwaite, and that woman was Iris Compton.
To dance with her was rapture and torment,
in which former scenes came flashing back to
taunt, cow, and sicken him. To every other
woman there he was profoundly indifferent,
and indifference in certain instances lends
ease, freedom, even a species of distinction to
the manner. But Sir William did not immediately

avail himself of the privilege of asking
Maudie Hollies to dance. He stood looking a
little as if he wondered what he had been
brought there to do, till she suggested that
she was dying to waltz to the particular air
which the orchestra was playing.

 Then hadn't we better try it ?' he said, and
whirled her round carefully and correctly.

Orson's a humbug she whispered to her
sister, when the couple stood still to rest, and
Nanny Hollies with her partner stopped beside
them. ' There is not a rise to be got out of
him. I think the Field-marshal should make
an investigation what the men who take the
Queen's shilling are really drilled in  the
goose-step or waltzing. If he had been a
Scotchman, and we had stood up in a reel, I
could have understood it ; I believe Scotch
children are born dancing reels, and only need
the sound of the bagpipes to make them skip
and whoop like red Indians. But a waltz !
Yet, I assure you, there is nothing at all odd
in his waltzing. Why, I thought we should
be the spectacle of the room, and I might be
reduced to spraining my ankle or fainting to
put an end to it, and he only touches me as if
I were glass, and lets me go when he has the

DD

opportunity. I wonder what Iris Compton
sees in him? But you can try him. if you
like. I dare say Captain Ryder will not
object to change partners, and Orson may
think it is the rule in our set. Then Peter
will be pleased to see us both dance with Sir
William, though the worthy soul has no notion
of match-making.'

Of course not,' answered Nanny. ' Peter
only thinks we are good, polite children, to
dance with everybody who asks us, and not to
affront a stuck recruiting sergeant.'

In the meantime Iris had been allowed to
follow her inclination and waltz with her fast
friend, LudoT.c Acton, as they had waltzed
together hundreds of times before, since the
juvenile days when they disputed hotly about
their steps, and she asserted that he trod on
her toes, while he retorted that she had nearly
pulled his arms off.

Lieutenant Ludovic had developed into a
big and incomprehensible fellow, comely, like
his sister Lucy, but with more individuality
in the comeliness, which defied and conquered
a mass of material, for he was big, with sandy
hair and moustache, and an inclination to
chubbiness in his cheeks. At home he was

the gentlest and most inoffensive of male
beinfifs, the most dutiful and affectionate of
sons and brothers, whose principal weakness
di splayed itself in a passion for musical instruments
of a languishing and die-away description.
He never came home from foreign
service without bringing back a new flute or
mandolin. It would have been his joy to have
played accompaniments to his mother's and
sisters' performances on the old piano all day
long*. It was his sorrow that with all the will
in the world to oblige the family's darling,
they had so little time to avail themselves of
his powers. Sometimes Iris Compton did
duty for the defaulters ; her grandmother
had, however, passed an interdict against
her making herself 'notorious' by frequent
trimmings with that musical fool, the Rector's
son.

But no sooner had Ludovic rejoined his
ship than the most extraordinary reports
reached the Rectory and his neighbours regarding
him. The mild strumming fellow
was all but blown up by his forwardness in
torpedo practice. He had leapt overboard in
the happy hunting-ground of sharks, and
risked his valuable life twice over to save a

"NVTetched Malay woman. He had volunteered
to take the command of a boat on an exploring
expedition among the ice near the North
Pole. And when the crew landed on a frost-bound
coast, and on false information took a
journey over the snow, which was likely to
be their last, he left the exhausted, despairing
men huddled together in their hut, and made
an awful journey back alone. He crossed the
wild white waste, with no companion save an
Esquimaux dog, and no sound to break the
stillness of death but the roar of a bear, the bay
of a wolf, or the scream of a bald-headed eagle.

These performances were certainly removed
by an immeasurable distance from any experience
which his home and native place had
of King Lud ; and he was so hurt and indignant
if anybody ventured to approach the
subject that his familiars were driven to the
verge of doubting whether he could really bethe
hero of the exploits Which were put in his
name. Had they not rather been performed
by some gallant young man who was unaccountably
defrauded of his due, while
Ludovic Acton, as his manner seemed to
imply, had, by an absurd mistake, been falsely
accredited with the glory? In spite of the

VOL. I. 17

bewilderment which attended on the young
manes honours, King Lud was justly the pride
of his father's and mother's hearts, and the
idol of his sisters. Iris Compton, too, was
proud and fond of him. She had only
escaped a deeper feeling because of the familiarity
which paralyzes the imagination, and
because one of the finest fellows in the world
did not happen to entertain any deeper feeling
for her.

All the difference which the advance from
boy and girlhood to young man and womanhood
had made in the relations between
Ludovic Acton and Iris Compton was, that
after frequent separations and renewals of intercourse,
the couple had succeeded in accomplishing
the effort, as a tribute to social forms,
to address each other in public as Mr. Acton
and Miss Compton, instead of King Lud and
Iris.

Therefore Sir William, with his unmasked
face, need not have looked every time he passed
the pair as if he would enjoy swearing ' like a
trooper,' according to Maudie HoUis's graphic
description. Even if he had heard their conversation,
so primitive a fellow might have felt
elated rather than depressed by it.

Don't you think Sir William Thwaite
waltzes very nicely?' said Iris, looking with
approving eyes on the waltzer. ' Oh I I hope
Lucy sees him.'

Ludovic had been interrupted in an enthusiastic
account he was o:ivinor of a either. He
did not dream of resenting his partner's lapse
of interest in his conversation ; but he looked
at her a little curiously in his quiet way. ' A
lady is the best judge of a fellow's waltzing,'
he said cautiously, pulling his fawn-coloured
moustache ; ' but if you ask me  I should not
have presumed to offer any criticism, mind, if
you had not put it to me  I should say the
gentleman is just a trifle laboured in his performance,
and occupied with it. No doubt art
will soon become second nature.'

'Now, Mr. Acton, that is very ill-natured
of you, particularly as we are speaking of
dancing, not of singing, or playing on the
banjo,' said Iris saucily; 'and I do not know
what you mean by professing not to presume
to give me an opinion till it is solicited.'

'Don't you?' responded King Lud dubiously;
' but may I inquire what Lucy has
to do with it?'

Yes, Lucy was so conceited as to imagine

172

Sir William could not dance at all  Sir
William who is waltzing like  like Lord
Palmerston when grand mamma saw him at
Alack's.'

Hold on, Miss Compton; I don't object to
a spice of friendly exaggeration, and I don't
wish to find fault. What's in waltzing after
all ? The best of men may not figme as the
most graceful of waltzers. I am afraid I am a
little heavy myself.'

I am afraid you are acknowledged Iris,
with all the candour of easy-going friendship.

Sir William waltzes more like his dancing-master,
whoever he may have been, and
whether or not he is still pointing the light
fantastic toe. The man is as solemn and
earnest over his task as if he were earning his
bread by it.'

I don't believe he ever had a dancing-master,'
said Iris in her ignorance, with a gay
laugh. ' I think he waltzes by nature  so
well that you are tempted to be jealous of him,
just as he is a gentleman by nature, to a greater
extent than many people suppose.'

It was just after this dance that Iris had her
eyes opened and the ball utterly spoilt for her.
The operation of having euphrasy squeezed on

the eye-lids may be always beneficial  as truth,
if we can bear it, is always the best  it by no
means follows that the act itself is not often
exquisitely painful ; indeed, the occasions
when it is supremely pleasant are the exceptions.
Iris's enlightenment had no apparent
connection with an awkward and distressing
episode of the ball which had happened a little
beforehand. The girl was out of the room
when the unlucky blunder occurred, and she
only heard a mangled version of it sometime
afterwards. Nevertheless, the accident was
partly the cause of Iris's having her eyes
opened  in this as in many instances she suffered
for the sins of others.

Lord Termor had not walked since his last
attack of illness, but he liked to be wheeled
from room to room, to look at the company he
could no longer join, and mumble greetings to
any friend he recognised. Lady Fermor had
directed that he should be wheeled once round
the ball-room. The progress, though it disconcerted
some of the guests, was made with
apparent satisfaction to the poor old man, who
glanced about with his lack-lustre eyes, and
smiled a meaningless smile, till he came close
to Lady Fermor where she sat at the top of

the room. She was preparing to accost him
with one of her customary challenges, in
the overpoweringly hilarious tones which she
always adopted towards him.

How do you like it all. Fermor ? The doings
are a little slow, eh ? The young folks have
not the go they had when we were young.'

At that moment he anticipated her, a light
came into his faded eyes and a tinge of lifeblood
into his clay-coloured cheeks. He succeeded
in raising himself up, and stooped
forward with an attempt at a low bow, at the
same time fumbling to lay his yellow wax-like
hand on his heart. He spoke in a quavering
but perfectly audible voice. ' Allow me to
pay you my very best respects  my ardent
homage. You must know it gives me the
greatest pleasure in life to attend your assembly,
Mrs. Bennet,' he said, using a name which
had not been mentioned in her hearing since
she had dragged the shameful thing she had
made it through the mire.

Even she grew ghastly at the unfamiliar
sound, and quailed for an instant, when her
sin found her out after half a century, by the
fatuous brain and babbling lips of the partner
who had continued devoted to her.

Everybody within hearing looked at each
other in dismay, and poor Mrs. Mildmay was
so appalled that her husband had to hurry
her away in search of instant restoratives, lest
she should groan aloud or faint on the spot.

The next moment Lady Fermor had signed
to the servant who was wheeling the chair to
move on, had pulled herself together, looked
round defiantly, and startled her next neighbour
by asking her how she liked the new
fashion of puffed sleeves, like pillows with
strings tied round them.

But there was a disturbing impression produced
at the worst time, for there was a lull
in the dancing, while the gentlemen whom
Lady Thwaite, as mistress of the ceremonies
for Lady Fermor, had deputed to be aides-de-camp
were assuming their steward's bows and
ribands, and consulting too-ether about the
bringing on the piece de resistance.

Lady Thwaite wished to get rid of the sense
of something wrong and to dissipate an uneasy
qualm of conscience on her own account.
Besides, she was a woman born to meddle,
incapable of letting well alone, unless in her
own private concerns, which she treated with
the greatest respect and discretion. She

caught Iris as she was coming back into the
ball-room, withdrew her from her partner, and
took possession of her, to have a little confidential
chat in a cool corridor which was
then deserted.

What is it, Lady Thwaite?' inquired Iris
without a shade of apprehension, unless for
the small trouble indicated in her next words.
Oh ! I hope nothing is going to put a stop to
the cotillon. The bouquets and foolscap have
not gone missing ? Nobody is too bashful ?
Captain Hood has not begun to doubt his
power to act as fugleman?'

No, no; but I have hardly spoken to you
to-night, my dear Iris, not even to congratulate
you, if I may venture '

 On my ball?' Iris finished the sentence.
Well, I do think it is going off delightfully in
spite of the heat, and that everybody is happy.
I am beginning to be sorry it is half over; I
did not enjoy my other balls nearly so much,
though you were very kind ended Iris, with a
little sigh of content.

I am so glad you find this ball especially
charming ; I am not surprised. But you did
not quite take me up. It was not on the ball
I thought of wishing you joy  may I not doit

on something else ?' said Lady Thwaite
caressingly.

On what else should you wish me joy ?'
inquired Iris wonderingly. ' I dare say it is
very stupid of me, but I do not in the least
know what you mean. I think I am stupid
to-niorht, for I have been two or three times
puzzled by things people have said, or rather
left half said. Ludovic Acton, among the
rest, professed not to presume to give his
opinion on something we were talking about.
I must have grown, unknown to myself, a
grand, imposing person all at once.'

You are not stupid, and you have only
grown grander by anticipation  you are
merely modest, a rare quality, let me tell you,
nowadays, and perhaps a little shy. But I
must warn you, my love, shyness is not always
wise where serious interests  the happiness of
two people's lives  are at stake,' she added
with an air of matronly wisdom, and a tone of
friendly caution. ' Shyness may be misunderstood
in certain cases and cause irreparable
mischief.'

What can you mean, Lady Thwaite?' cried
Lais, provoked into standing still, with her
cheeks hot and scarlet, and a sparkle and ring

of justifiable vexation in her eyes and voice.
You speak as if there were somebody when
there is nobody  nobody in the world, Nota
soul has a right to say so, or to talk to me
about it; though I hope I should have the
sense and good feeling to let any friend talk tome
for my good, if there were a shadow of
reason for it. Mr. Acton, if you mean him,*
continued Iris incoherently,  though I cannot
think why, unless because he is Lucy's brother,
and we have always been intimate friends 
they have all been kind to me since I was a
baby at the Rectory  but we shall never be
anything more than friends  we have never

either of us had the most distant idea of

I should be so sorry, and I am afraid grand-mamma
would be very angry, if anything
without the smallest foundation were said.'

 Don't trouble yourself  there is no fear of
it,' said Lady Thwaite, with the faintest sarcasm
in her tone, and continuing the unruffled smiling
serenity of her scrutiny ; * what is the proper
word for what old-fashioned people used to
call " close " ? Does your grandmother never
say, as characters in novels were wont to do,
My dear girl, you are very close " ?'

Lady Thwaite could not in any sense be

termed a bad woman. She was not cruel or
treacherous or even tyrannical in her selfishness,
and she had a genuine liking for Iris
Compton ; but she no more understood her
than she could have understood the inhabitant
of another world. Iris thought that either
Lady Thwaite was taking leave of her senses,
or that she had gone out of the way to insult
her, which in itself would have been a witless
as well as an unprecedented piece of aggression.
For Iris was not aware of having
offended her inquisitor, who had been formerly
her friendly patroness, while the girl had
never imagined herself insulted before.

I am almost a relation,' went on Lady
Thwaite, with her exasperating cheerful reproachfulness,
' at least a most interested
family connection.'

Iris had been standing staring at the
speaker, now she started with a gasp. ' Lady
Thwaite, you cannot mean Sir William, to
whom grand mamma has been kind ; and I
have tried to be kind to him too, though of
course I have nothing in my power. Taat
do you take us for ? He would never make
such a dreadful mistake.'

Iris,' said Lady Thwaite, thoroughly excited,

' it is not other people who have been
making mistakes ; it is you who are  a perfect
simpleton I had almost said, forgive me for
such plain speaking  a greater child than I
could have conceived possible. All the people
here to-night are talking of your marriage
with Sir William Thwaite almost as an accomplished
fact. What is more, Lady Fermor has
arranged the match. She has spoken of it tome.
Sir William himself is looking for the
fulfilment of the expectations which have been
held out to him. It is right that you should
know the truth, if you have never suspected it
before.'

And was I to have no voice in my own
marriage ? What is there about me, what
have I done, that people should see fitness in
such a marriage ? Would grand mamma give
me to one of the servants, to a rude, ignorant
working-man ?'

Lady Thwaite was touched by the misery
in the girl's face, and by the self-restraint
which prevented her from expressing it, save
by the unconscious tightening of every muscle
so that the eyebrows grew contracted and
the little mouth drawn  and by the involuntary
clenching of her hand on one of

the white roses of the bouquet, till the flower
was crushed, and the petals fell unheeded to
the ground. But Lady Thwaite was also
provoked and indignant. ' My dear Iris, I
am very sorry. If I had dreamt that you
would be so distressed, I should certainly
not have spoken to-night and spoilt your
pleasure, though it is high time somebody
spoke to prevent a great esclandre. But,
pardon me, you are speaking very foolishly
in what you imply of Sir William. He is not
to be mentioned in the same breath with an
ordinary working-man. Xo doubt, his branch
of the family had been permitted to sink into
obscurity, so that he was brought up very
plainly ; but he was still a Thwaite of White-hills.
For my part I think he showed his
origin by preferring the army to any small
trade, and I believe he proved himself a brave
soldier. You know we have all accepted him,
and given him his place among us. Every
year that passes will see him in greater
harmony with his position. I am convinced
he is a rough diamond, with many admirable
qualities, as men go. He is young, fairly
good-looking  I may say rather handsome
than the reverse  manly, honest. You know

he is as temperate as an anchorite ' (with an
irrepressible smile). ' He attends church as
regularly as if he were marched there by a
commanding officer. He is kind  I have seen
it with animals, and you yourself told me how
good he has been to some sick servant. If
you were as well acquainted with the world as
I am, you would be aware that many, very
many girls of your rank, whether they get
their choice or not, have to go farther and fare
worse, to put up with much heavier objections
in their husbands than are involved in marrying
poor Sir William.'

To Lady Thwaite's surprise Iris gave a
little nervous laugh as her only protest. Lady
Thwaite fancied it was in scorn, and she was
annoyed at this exhibition of pride in a girl
whom Lady Thwaite had imagined only too
good, gentle, and docile.

But the laugh was more hysterical than
scornful, though Iris was too healthy in body
and mind, with too much native dignity and
self-respect in her simplicity, to be guilty of
pronounced hysterics. Only Lady Thwaite's
words had vividly recalled to her mind a
half-forgotten sentence which she herself had
spoken of Sir William, when she had seen him

first, and said of him afterwards that he seemed
 a good sort of young man.' And Lady
Fermor had protested impatiently such a report
would have been very well if she had
meant to hire him for a servant.

Yes, the recommendations which Lady
Thwaite was citing were just the good character
which one might get with a servant. The
rather handsome than the reverse ' miofht
stand for the number of inches often required
in a footman. For the rest  ' honest, sober,
obliging.' Was he obliging ? Such kindness
as he had displayed ought to represent good-natured
consideration and readiness to please
in refraining from over-driving the horses,
if he were the coachman, and in behoof found
willing to help the other domestics.

The question was, whether the attributes of
a good servant were quite those which a girl
would look for in a husband, though it was
true she might not fare the better as a wife
for the lack of them.

Iris, in spite of the silence of her lips, had
not been without her dream-husband, her
ideal of true nobility, honour, grace, with
every accomplishment for which she cared a
straw. Compared to this ideal Sir William

Traite was a clown, and something worse, if
he had so grossly misinterpreted her, and presumed
on her friendliness towards him.

Lady Thwaite went on in spite of the unpropitious
laugh :  I think he was smitten
with you at first sight. I am certain that he
now worships the very ground you tread on.
You could make almost anything of him.
Would it not be worth your pains  a fit task
for a girl so kind and unselfish as you are 
to enable the poor Beast to break the spell
of inadequate training and unfortunate associations,
and see him rise the perfect prince
of the fairy-tale ? I remember, Iris, finding
you, when you were a little girl, reading
'' Beauty and the Beast," and crying sour
eyes out for the poor, self-denying, forsaken
Beast.'

'That was long ago,' said Iris, shaking
her head. ' I know now that Beauty
had her rights, no less than the Beast  in
fact, that there are no such Beauties and
Beasts.'

Who would have expected cynicism from
you ? Was there not some old queen and
saint who asserted her queenliness and saintship
-by christianizing and civilizing a barbarian

of a husband, to whom my Sir William
is a Paladin ?'

I am neither a queen nor a saint,' answered
Iris briefly; but she recollected instantly the
whole story of St. Margaret, which Lady
Thwaite had never read, and that Margaret's
royalty and saintliness did not save her from
dying of the stab of exquisite anguish dealt
by the bitter tidings that her old rustic wooer
Malcolm and their first-born son had fallen
together in the Northumbrian siege.'

I have only one word more to say,' said
Lady Thwaite, beginning to wonder at the
zeal of her own pleading, when she was carried
away by the spirit of the moment. ' Lady
Fermor is a very old woman ; it is simply
natural and right that she should be concerned
for your future. I don't wish to sadden you,
love, but you will be a very lonely girl when
she dies, and it is possible that she and Lord
Fermor have not been able to make such an
ample provision for you as the world supposes.
There may be other reasons, which you are
too young and do not know enough of the
world to comprehend, why it would be specially
desirable for you to marry early and well,
as society judges marriages. Is it at all
VOL. I. ' 18

surprising that your grandmother should wish
to seize the opportunity of seeing you
established at Whitehills ? Though it is not
above eight months since I lost poor Sir
John, I think you must have forgotten what
Whitehills is like remonstrated Lady Thwaite
between warmth and plaintiveness.  It is as
well, perhaps, that you are to see it again
tomorrow. I am not ashamed to confess that
I was a proud woman when I came there first
as its mistress. Whitehills, with a man who
adores you  not at all a bad fellow, not
vicious, or even superannuated, quite capable of
becoming a respectable and respected county
gentleman ! Iris, think twice what you are
about

Thinking a hundred times would not make
any difference,' retorted Iris, stung into
passion, and proceeding, in her pain, to deal
certain home-thrusts  of which she would
have been incapable at a calmer moment 
of whose point, in truth, she had little idea.
I may be left a poor solitary girl  far poorer
and more solitary than girls who have been
brought up to earn their bread. I may have
to bear reproach ; I have not been so happy
as to fail entirely in the knowledge of evil.

which will cling to me. And Whitehall
may be a very grand place, with its mistress
a most enviable woman. I dare say Sir
William will not beat her, or prevent her
from being a fine lady, though he is not a
gentleman, and her Mends will not forsake
her. But for all that, I see no cause why I
or any other girl should sell herself. That
would be the lowest poverty, the most utter
desolation of all, because it would be degradation
and a lie.' 

Then I imagine you must be suffered to go
your own way,' said Lady Thwaite a little
loftily and angrily, ' since your notions are so
impracticable. I hope you will never regret
your resolution. You will allow me to say
so,' she continued, recovering her temper.
For it recurred to her again with greater force
why should she so press Sir William's
suit ? It would be nicer for her if he were
longer in marrying  nay, if he never married
at all  though what, in that case, would
become of dear old Whitehills ? To think
that it should go a-begging ! But now she
would have the clearest conscience with regard
to hadng done her best in seconding Sir
William in the wish of his heart, though it

182

went a little against her convenience rather
than her interest.

Even Bill Rogers might have owned that
the dowager had done something to earn
her pension. Under the renewed sense of
what was best for herself  doubtless for her
cousin ' and Iris also  and under the full
sunshine of an approving conscience, good-natured
Lady Thwaite's touch of indignation
at Iris's very tall notions and absurd unconventionality
vanished speedily.

Iris '  Lady Thwaite addressed her companion
soothingly  ' don't mind it too
much ; it cannot be helped. It is vexing ;
but most girls have troubles of the
kind to encounter, sooner or later,
and though they are trying they can begot
over. Indeed, I am not sure whether
any girl would like to be entirely without
them  we are such contradictory mortals ;
we women especially. This is a free country,
though there may be some difficulty with
your grandmother, who cannot be expected
to see with your eyes, and generally objects
to being thwarted. However, I make no
question that Sir William will take his cone
like a man. But if I were you, my dear,

I should put him out of pain as quickly
and humanely as possible. I am afraid he
has deceived himself, and been deceived,
without any fault of yours, while he may
not stand being undeceived quite calmly just
ut first. Only don't frio-ten yourself. I
dare say he will not go straightway to destruction,
or even forget himself so far as
to swear at you.'

Lady Thwaite was laughing now ; but
though Iris felt hurt by this rapid transition
to a light mood, as by everything else in the
discussion, her wounded pride did not prevent
her from more nearly breaking down
than she had yet shown. She could have
implored Lady Thwaite to stay the denouement
to save everybody from an explanation which
could only be painful. If Ladv Thwaite
were right, which Iris to this moment doubted,
with the doooedness of affront and mortification,
and the utmost recoil from the next
staofe of the farce  surely it was a farce, nota
tragedy  would not Lady Thwaite tell Sir
William it could not be ? She, Iris, was very
sorry ; but the suggestion was monstrous.
Well, if that would be too strong an epithet,
the think; was not to be thought of for a

moment. Sir William would take Lady
Thwaite's word for his dismissal, and there
would be an end of it. Lady Fermor could
not say anything if he withdrew of his own
accord.

Iris was saved from an entreaty which
must have been refused, by the arrival of a
servant, with an urgent request that Lady
Thwaite and Miss Compton would return to
the ball-room immediately. The second part
of the programme, the cotillon, which was to
give speciality to the ball, was about to begin,
but it could not be started in the absence of
the two ladies.

THE COTILLON.

Lady Thwaite was more sorry than ever for
having interfered at so inopportune a time,
though she had the consolation, which was
great to a woman of her character, of knowing
now exactly how matters stood.

Are you quite able for it, Iris ?' she inquired
kindly. * Would you Hke to wait
here a little longer, or to go to your own
room for a few minutes ? Shall I send to say
the cotillon must be put off for another half-hour
? It will not matter much, though the
supper-hour is coming on.'

But whatever kind of home Lambford had
proved to Iris, it had not been a nursery of
self-indulgence. The place had not been
without its bracing elements. She pulled
herself together, slight vouno: girl that she
was, as a strong man might have done, and

after putting her hand to her head for a
moment, she answered : ' Xo, thank you ;
where would be the good ? I must not keep
everybody waiting and disappoint people ;* and
then she held up her drooping head and walked
like a young queen back to the ball-room.

Lady Thwaite had never admired her so
much. * She is too good for him and such a
fate,' she said to herself, for her abiding conviction
was that the marriage was merely a
thing of time. Lady Fermor would prevail
eventually, as when had she not prevailed ?
Otherwise what would become of Iris, poor
girl, in spite of her beauty and spirit, and
what fortune she might inherit ? She was
over weighted, and unfortunately she was not
fit to measure the clogs calculated to drag
anyone down. It was a pity that she could
not yield without a struggle. Sir William
was a bit of a Turk, although all Lady
Thwaite had said of him was true. It was to
be hoped that he would not develop into a
Bluebeard. If Iris could have seen it to be
her wisest course, it might have saved useless
contention and suffering ; but Lady Thwaite
had done her best, her ladyship wound up
with a shrug of her shoulders.

So courageously did Iris carry herself to
hide her wound and hinder herself from becoming
a drao on the satisfaction of her
neighbours, that only one person remarked
the girl who had left the ball-room the
happiest creature there, and who returned toit
dizzy from a blow, with her maidenly pride
up in arms and humiliated, and her heart
fluttering with nameless shame, pain, and
terror. It was not her old friend, Lucy, who
saw" the change. It was the awkwardly stiff
young man, clumsily encumbered with his
lessons in polite accomplishments, wretchedly
self-conscious, out of his element, and so
racked with anxiety and shaken with alternate
ague-fits of heat and cold, hope and fear, that
he could not offer the slightest response to
the many overtures  some of them not ungenerous
or self-seeking  made to him as he
hung about the doors and corners of the
room. The consequence was that he was
pronounced the merest stick, the most unsocial
fellow in the world. It was he who
was quick to observe the subtle alteration in
Iris Compton's look, though her gait was as
elastic, and the rosy flush on her delicate] y-
rounded cheek a more perfect carmine than ever.

They have allowed her to do herself up
he complained to himself angrily. ' She is as
sick as I am of all this falling rigmarole.'

There was a little agreeable murmur rather
than hush of expectation. Ladies sat and
fanned themselves, and complained of the
July heat, but could not make up their minds
to go out on the terrace  not just at this
moment. They hoped there would be no
thunderstorm before tomorrow, both for Sir
William's hay and their presence at the hay-making.
It was so seldom that there was any
summer gaiety in Eastham, except tennis-parties,
of which everybody was sick, or
harvest festivals and thanksgiving services,
which might be pretty and improving, but
were not very entertaining. Gentlemen
formed a succession of little circles, copying
the circle of officers who wore the badge of
the stewards of the concluding ceremonies.

A flutter among those who were not acquainted
with the cotillon heralded the
entrance of servants with a great basketful
of bouquets, composed of distinctive individual
flowers, of white stephanotis, roses of every
hue, striped carnations, purple pecunia, blue
or scarlet sylvia, yellow and brown cancellaria,

each tied with its appropriate white,
red, or blue riband. These bouquets were
handed to all the young people, ladies and
gentlemen alike. Then the masters of the
ceremonies announced to the novices, who
were fingering the flowers and gazing doubtfully
at the ribands  not knowing what to
make of the posies and their streamers, since
the most of the recipients were provided with
bouquets already  that these cotillon bouquets
matched each other two and two, and were to
serve as indexes in the choice of partners,
besides being worn without fail by their
owners in the waltz which was to follow.

Then commenced a grand hunt for corresponding
nosegays, with plenty of jesting and
laughter. Short-sighted men peered about
for special roses with their special ribands.
Colour and form blind men obstinately persisted
that oleander blossom was the flower of
a balsam, or that the large clustered head of
the plumbago, with its grey-blue, was one
and the same nth the little sky-blue tufts of
lobelia.

Nanny Hollies tied her nosegay of marigolds
under one ear in a trice. She was a tall girl,
but she stood up in order that yellow and

brown might the more easily detect her.
Maudie swung her Tom Thumb geraniums
from her girdle like a chatelaine, and advised
her partner to tie his flowers at his knee as a
new Order of the Garter.

But Iris Compton kept her stephanotis and
its bridal white riband hidden out of sight,
while she glanced round in fright. Some
witch at Sir William Thwaite's elbow  it
might have been Lady Thwaite  in spite of
everything had guided his selection, for he
was dangling a handful of stephanotis, and
looking about with eager trepidation.

Iris leant back and stooped down to one
of Lady Thwaite's young cousins. She was
a little girl of fifteen, full of the enthusiastic
admiration which some girls lavish on other
girls older than themselves. Iris Compton
was at present the object of Janie Fuller's
devotion.

Do you like the scent of stephanotis,
Janie ?' inquired Iris faintly ; ' I don't ; it
makes me sick.' And she had grown as pale
as a lily within the last few" minutes.

Oh, then don't keep it near you, dear Miss
Compton,' pleaded Janie, intent on serving
the heroine she was worshipping. ' Give it tome,

I am very fond of the scent, and though I
were not, it would not matter. Change with
me ; my flower is only heather, with a tartan
riband ; that won't hurt you. But will it
spoil the dance if we change the flowers ?
Will auntie or Lady Fermor be displeased ?
Oh, please tell me, Miss Compton,' besought
Janie, in an agony of divided feelings. There
was her delight in doings something for her
goddess. There was her dread of not behaving
properly so as to annoy her aunt, who
had procured for her, Janie, one of the greatest
treats of her young life. Above all, there was
the terror of drawing down upon herself the
wrath of that awful old Ladv Fermor.

!Neo, no, there will still be partners for
everybody, and I will take the responsibility.
You know it is my ball, Janie,' said Ri?,
hurriedly asserting her privilege with a poor
attempt at a smile. At the same time she
was ostentatiously shaking out her borrowed
heather and tartan. They were successful in
bringing to her side a stripling brother of
Janie' s, who would certain] v have been a fitter
partner for his sister than for the young mistress
and beauty of the ball. The last distinction
had been universally admitted, more

to the satisfaction of Lucy Acton than of Sir
William Thwaite. He might have cared for
other people's homage to Iris if he had not
been mortally jealous of every man who approached
her.

As for the very young gentleman who led
Iris forth to the waltz, he was at the nil admirer
stage of his existence. He would not
have given a cricket-match for all the balls in
the world. He had already enraged Janie by
declaring that he could not see what she made
such a row about in Miss Compton, a maypole
of a girl with a little round turnip of a head,
pink-painted cheeks, and the recollection of
carrots in her hair. He would have preferred
pulling about and teasing his sister by a long
chalk to being compelled to stick that beastly
rubbish of heather in the pocket of his jacket,
and to ' tread a measure like any other theatrical
ass, with the young lady of the house. The
gentleman was not even propitiated by the
circumstance that Iris, in her excitement and
in the reaction produced by her small achievement,
chatted to him as if she had been a very
chatterton.

Sir William fell to the share of the quaking
Janie. He was hugely disappointed, and

showed it transparently ; but he had escaped
seeing the manoeuvre which gave him his
partner, and fancied it was only a stroke of his
bad luck, though he was considered by the
assembly generally the luckiest fellow going.

If any other person received a surprise at the
result of the pairing of flowers and couples in
one case, he or she was fain to conclude that a
servant had blundered or had been unable to
carry out private instructions.

The cotillon lottery had been quite fair,
several people remarked with approbation,
when they saw Miss Compton dancing with
a schoolboy, and Sir William Thwaite, in his
absence of mind, lifting Janie clean off her
feet.

When the waltz was over there was another
distribution of indexes and adornments. At
the first glimpse, the young people were inclined
to cry that the substitutes for the
flowers were too childish and absurd. Then
the company found that to every paper helmet
or ass's head which was extracted from one
of the crackers  that are generally reserved
for the amusement of very juvenile parties on
Christmas Eve and Twelfth Might  Lady
Termor had been so liberal as to add, by way

of bribe, a pretty, more or less valuable trinket
or fantastic charm, which could be worn either
at a lady's or a gentleman's watch-chain.

A hum of gratification on the discovery
testified that a large proportion of the bigger
boys and girls there were willing to make
fools of themselves for a small reward.

If her fate and her human foes were alike
minded to betray Iris on this occasion, she
must submit so far to destiny. She must
dance her round with Sir William, as the old
desperate villain danced his round beneath the
gallows-tree, though every eye in the room
should be upon her and her partner, and every
soul present mistake the couple's relations and
injure and insult Iris by the mistake. Iris
could not affect to be overcome by a paper
crown, mitre, apron, or tippet, and she could
not openly insult Sir William in her grandmother's
house by a marked rejection of his
claim, and breach of the laws of the dance.
She was too gentle, too courteous, her good-breeding
went too far beyond skin-depth, to
permit her thus to release herself, at the expense
of Sir William and the company. The
favour or treachery, call it which you will,
appeared again in the-distribution of the

crackers, else Sir T\illiam was indeed the
luckiest of men in externals and empty conquests.
Fortune, half bandaged, had
awarded him a green paper sash with an
emerald buckle to fasten it, and a fac simile
of the same sash and buckle lay in Iris's lap.
His keen eyes detected the coincidence immediately.
He came up and looked at her
appealingly, T\'ith the blue eyes which she had
said melted like a woman's sometimes.

I suppose we must seem as great babies as
the others,' she said, with a rush of colour to
the cheeks which had been pale just before.
She spoke in a formal, constrained way  the
first time she had shown such a manner to
him. He started, and looked at her with a
more desperate appeal than ever.

" Green is sorrow unseen," I should warn
you,' she said, lingering, as if she hoped to
find him superstitious, and to slay on his
superstition.

I don't mind,' he answered in a voice half-choked
with the tumult of his feelings.  I
don't mind anything.'

She rose and stopped him from saying more.
She ought to have fastened his scarf on his
shoulder, but she left that duty to a servant

VOL. I. 19

while she clasped her paper rag beneath one
arm.

The scene had changed to a harlequinade,
in which Iris's one ray of comfort was that the
two must pass comparatively unnoticed among
much more ridiculous figures causing merriment
verging on boisterousness. For had not
tall Nanny Hollies fluttering wings pinned to
her shoulders, and was she not dancing with
the smallest mite of a man in the room, having
companion wings tacked to his little shoulders,
which, as they waved in time to the music,
gave him the air of making a perpetual vain
effort to fly up to a level with his partner ?
Was not Ludovic Acton waltzing, and pointing
the beak of a vulture over the shoulder of
a vulture maiden from no greater distance
than Knotley ?

No wonder Mrs. Mildmay took to reproaching
her husband as if this were more than
she had bargained for, more than any exemplary
matron could come through and live or
else be for ever compromised.

'Is it a masquerade ball, Tom ? Oh, I
thought masquerade balls were confined to the
opera-houses, and only attended by actors and
actresses.'

My dear Amelia, you ought to go more
into society  indeed you ought protested the
aggrieved husband. ' This is only one of the
figures of the cotillon. You will take fright
at calico balls next : you will say calico balls
are only got up for music-halls and casinos.'

Iris would have hoped that she and her
partner passed unobserved among the greater
notorieties, if Sir William had not waltzed a
little wildly, as if he had lost his head, so that
he did not stop with the others, or hear her
telling; him she would not have another turn.
And when he paused at last, it was before
Lady Fermor, who  Herculean old woman as
she had shown herself  was in the act of
withdrawing: to rest for half an hour before
supper.

Iris tried to meet her grandmother's gaze
without betraying consciousness or tremor;
but the girl's modest hazel eyes fell abashed
before the bold, half taunting challenge which
met hers. ' What characters are you two young
people representing ?' cried the old lady in
great good-humour. ' A pair of Tyrolean
beggars on the tramp with an organ-grinder ?
A couple of Foresters from the worshipful
company that hold their annual festival at the

192

Crystal Palace ? only the wives and sweethearts
do not go in character; they are supposed
to be too retiring for fancy dresses. Well, I
am pleased to see that you are enjoying yourselves,
and I'm ready to say " God bless you,
my children," whenever you like.'

Iris drew her arm from Sir William's, and
moved hastily away. He might take the
words as a matter of course. He might not
understand them in their stage slang. This
was a forlorn hope. But if he were sharper,
what a cruelly mortifying ordeal for her to be
thus thrown at any man's head ! At the head
of this man, who could hardly be expected to
see that she had no share in the unwomanly
transaction. It was not to be thought that he
would disclaim it for her, or even feel for her
in this humiliating position. He had emerged
within the last six months from a condition
lower than that of any of the servants at
Lambford. She had never refused to admit
that there were nature's noblemen, but these
she understood to be martyrs, heroes, geniuses
at the very least, not mere stiff, shy, young
squires and baronets. She had been surprised
to find Sir William could conduct himself
passably, but he had been led into an intolerable

blunder Trbicli a better-bred man might
have avoided. He had been betrayed by the
coarseness of perception and vain credulity
which had made him become an easy prey to
her grandmother's scheme. At this very
moment Sir William might be exulting in
what his lands and title could do. He might
be making up his mind to get rid of all the
matters on which the couple differed  of what
would appear to him her squeamishness and
fads from the time that he consented to take a
willing bride.

Iris was mistress of the situation in the two
concluding acts of the cotillon. These were
the prettiest, most dramatic, and most foreign
of the whole.

A chair was placed in the middle of the
room, and Iris was the first called to fill it.
A hand mirror was given to her; a march was
played by the band ; all the young men in the
room passed in single file at the back of her
chair, each pausing an instant that his image
mioht be reflected in the o:lass she held. If
she accepted the first man for her partner, she
must let his image remain till he, recognising
the sion, came round to the front of the chair
fi'om which she had risen, led her out of the

circle, when the two ought to waltzes a single
round of the room. Then another girl seated
herself in the chair, and the same performance
was repeated. Tf Cassiopea rejected the first
man, she passed her handkerchief across the
mirror, as if she were brushing away the
offending image, and she might go on effacing
quenched partners, one after another, to the
last man, and, blotting him out also, decline
to dance at all.

It was a tableau rather than a dance, a
capital tableau for a born actress or a finished
coquette, who could improve upon the original
idea by fine touches of coyness, disdain,
hesitation, surrender, to the delight of the
audience.

Iris was no coquette, and she had only one
thought in her mind, that of publicly refusing
to have anything more to do with Sir William
Thwaite, by theoretically wiping out his image.
Her nimble mind had quickly laid hold of one
important deduction. If she accepted the
first, second, or third man for her partner, of
course taking it for granted that none of the
gentlemen was Sir William, her decision
would be to a great extent without point.
It might look the simple effect of girlish shyness

and unwillingness to offend. It would
be treating the unpalatable suitor thrust upon
her, exactly as she treated a large proportion
of the other young men. She must behave
as if she were deliberately waiting till the
partner of her choice presented himself; she
must sit till the reflection of Sir William was
in the mirror, and she had the chance of
seeming to wide it out. Oh, surely then
he would take the hint ! and it would dawn
upon him that she had never looked upon
him in any other light than that of an acquaintance
and neighbour, who might be the
better for a kind word or look. He would
comprehend that she had pitied, even liked
him, but never cared for him as her grandmother
had arranged that they should care
for each other. In her case the two feelings
of pity and love, in place of being akin, were
as far apart as the poles. He must believe
her that she would not willingly have trifled
with him, that she had continued in utter
ignorance of what had been thought and said
by others up to this very evening, when, for
his sake as well as her own, she was forced to
make her meaning very plain.

Iris sat the picture of youthful loveliness,

with an erect, undaunted carriage which she
had shown before on special occasions, but
only then. The company, thinking of her
youth, and having some idea of her relations
with her grandmother, marvelled that she
acted her part so well. ' She will make a
dignified mistress of Whitehills. What a boon
to that cub Sir William ! The man may creep
altogether into his shell, and remain there for
the rest of his days, with so efficient a partner.
She will not let herself be put upon. She
will know what to do for both  a child like
that ! How cool and composed ! She is no
school-girl blushing and giggling, and looking
fatuously round for guidance and support.
She might have been a trained actress, or
the heiress to a great estate. It is wonderful
!'

The gallants of Eastham behaved with the
gentlemanlike gaucherie the paralysis of intelligence
and morbid mauvaise honte which
is apt to attack the young gentlemen of England
when they are unexpectedly called upon
for an exhibition of histrionic talent. They
tumbled and stumbled, sidled and boggled
past Iris, who sat so still and so steadily, with
her heart throbbing as if it would burst her

bosom, or make its beating heard above the
rhythm of the march, as, with a movement that
grew measured and mechanical, she passed
her handkerchief lightly across the glass, and
hid the reflection of one smiling, reddening
face after another.

Still he did not come. What if in his
waywardness, or in his conceit and vulgar
desire to flaunt his triumph, he stayed to the
last ? Then Iris's fastidiousness and determination,
in place of giving a conspicuous
denial to his claims, would lend a glaring
confirmation to the report and to his hopes.
Because, as the daughter of the house and
leader of this figure of the cotillon, she could
not well avail herself of the welcome privilege
of not dancing at all. She began to get dizzy
with apprehension, to be conscious of a panic
laying hold of her. She would wait no longer.
She would leave the next reflection unbroken
in the mirror. But happily agitation did not
dim her eyes, for what she saw was the representation
of the upright figure and soldierly
step trampling past  contrasting not unfavourably
with the irregular, shuffling paces that
had gone before  the head slightly bent, the
flushed face glooming with a very passion of

suspense. It was the image she had been
looking for and dreading to see.

Iris's arm was not unnerved by the apparition.
With a rapid gesture she swept her
handkerchief, as if in the impatience of high
disdain, right across the glass.

Iris was conscious of a little stir of surprise
in those around, and then she felt she could
go no farther with the play. Instead of
looking at Sir William's successor in the
nearly completed file of rejected candidates,
she shut her eyes for a second and let her arm
drop, so that her handkerchief fell to the
ground. The next moment she beheld Major
Pollock leering and sneering and bowing
before her. She had done well ; she had
given point to her suggestion with a vengeance.
She had as much as said that a broken-down
reprobate who belonged to her set, the person
she detested most among her acquaintances,
was preferable in her eyes to the Squire of
Whitehills.

The consideration was a small consolation
to Iris, when she was whirled away by the
ci-devant man about town, with his step made
up, like everything else about him  to suit
his gout in this instance  his hateful, 

date swaggering coxcombry. ' 'Pon my
word, I don't know what to say, Miss Compton,
for this mark of your favour! I'm a
modest man, so that I'm at a loss to know
what I've done to deserve it, unless you and
I are ooino; to be better friends in future.
You may depend ujDon it I'm eternally obliged
to you.'

Swearing friendship with Major Pollock 
was that what Iris had come to ? It was a
greater consolation that she was soon done
with him. So much time was spent in each
girl's making her choice of a partner, that the
chosen man had to be content with the honour
of his election, and eschew the profit of more
than one round of the room.

Iris did not venture to seek out Sir William
with her eyes, and learn, by the evidence of
her senses, whether he was rampaging in a
rude fury, or merely moderately morose. She
was fain to trust that he had got enough of
the cotillon, and would keep himself out of
the last figure, which was only another version
of what had gone before. The reversal of that
rule of society by which a gentleman is supposed
either to select or to be given to his
partner, in all the various forms in which

people dispose of themselves or disport themselves
in the upper circles, must have fascinated
the imagination of that master of the ceremonies
 or more probably that queen of
fashion  to whom the cotillon is due. The
last figure was a repetition, with a slight
variety, of the magnanimous permission for a
fanciful girl rather than strong-minded woman
to select her champion, while it also betokened
that the invention of the author was beginning
to fail.

All the girls in the ball-room stood together
in the centre of the room, making a stationary
blooming ring, with their faces turned to an
outer ring of young men that moved round
the inner ring. As inclination prompted hera
girl bowed and made step forward to a
privileged man of her acquaintance, who took
her hand and led her to his side. If Iris had
been stern in stamping out a false impression
a base insinuation  that she had stooped
and sold herself to the master of Whitehills,
Sir William Thwaite proved stubborn in insisting
on a public demonstration which should
dispel the dream of his life, and scatter his
hopes to the winds. He was in the revolving
ring of men, but Iris did not wait for him to

approach her. She eagerly nodded and advanced
to Ludovic Acton, when he drew near,
and went aside with him. She did not want
to hurt Sir AVilHam more than she could help.
She was utterly incapable of wanton cruelty.
The blow she had dealt had rebounded on her
own head, the sword-thrust was quivering in
her own heart. She was very glad when Lucy
Acton graced Sir AYilliam with her hand before
the whole of the young people were whirling
round in a final waltz.

Supper followed immediately afterwards.
Iris might have saved herself from a last
spasm of fright, for Lady Fermor, who had
returned to the ball-room, took Sir William's
arm as the crowning mark of what she had
intended to have been the significant distinction
conferred on him throughout the evening,
and Iris fell thankfully to her last partner.
But King Lud did not monopolize the attention
of his companion. She could not keep
it from straying to Lady Fermor and Sir
William ; she could not shake off the suspicion
that they were speaking of her, plotting
against her, if it ought to be called a plot,
when he might merely be complaining of her
avoidance of him, and Lady Fermor smoothing

him down and reassuring him. His face
primitively transparent in spite of its fair
share of sense and intelligence  certainly-looked
so black that she feared other people
must remark it, while Lady Fermor had her
rallying, snap-forefingers, authoritative expression
in full force.

Iris's guess was not wide of the mark. Sir
William had said, in his gruff, hurt undertones,
' I tell you it is of no earthly use. I
had better let it alone before worse comes of
it. I have your goodwill, I know, but that
ain't everything.'

Now, Thwaite, what in creation are you
down in the mouth about ? You were all
right when I left the room. Do you expect
a girl like her to j ump down your throat ?
Did you ever hear of such a quality as coyness ?
Are you not aware it is the most favourable,
flattering symptom women betray at an early
stage of a certain malady ? Were you never
told that when a woman is willing, a man can
but look like a fool ? Do you want to look
like a fool ? Would you deprive us of our
single, short season of power ? Don't we
pay dearly for it to the best of you men in
the long-run ? See what your fete champetre

tomorrow will do. Take my word for it
that it will turn the scales, if there is any
turning needed. She is just the style of girl,
at the age to he idiotic about green fields,
and rubbish of weeds, beetles, and snails, and
all the rest of it. You can show her you'
house, too ; and though it is not like Lamb-ford,
to be plain with you  you observe I
don't butter you up  it is a fine place of its
kind. You have my consent to press your
suit. I will see that you are not worsted in
the end, but you cannot expect that you are
to walk over the field and conquer without a
siege or a battle, or the shabbiest skirmish.
What cheek you must have ! The prize would
not be worth the winning if you got it at so
easy a rate.'

Lucy followed Ms to her room that night.
Oh dear, it has been such a charming ball 
everybody says so !' exclaimed Lucy, in a
glow. ' I never enjoyed anything half so
much in my life. I feel perfectly demoralized;
and, do you know, that dear fellow, Sir
William, has promised such a handsome subscription
for the harvest feast ! He hardly
waited for me to speak of it. Of course I
should not have thought of asking him to put

down his name the first time I had spoken to
him. But when he saw I was pleased with
his volunteering a subscription, in the handsomest,
most modest manner, I assure you
darling, he wished to double it. I had
actually to forbid it. There is a man with
his heart in the right place ! That is of twice
as much consequence as his having stamped
and dug his fists into his eyes, after the
fashion of Gerald and Charlie over their Latin
Grammar, or pulled an oar, or ridden a hurdle-race
at Oxford or Cambridge. I was quite
struck with his appearance to-night. He is a
fine, soldierly-looking man when one comes to
study him closely. I don't in the least wonder
that you, who value all that is honest and kind,
like him so much, though you tease him a little.'

It became clear enough to Iris, in her heartsickness,
that Lucy's ears had been open, and
had picked up a good deal more than the
amount of Sir William's subscription. A
horrible suspicion arose that Lucy might have
such a mania for charities, she could be
brought to stretch a point in the bestowal of
a bosom-friend for their advantage.

I am glad you have been happy, Lucy,'
said Iris wearily.

Oh, Happy ! I am only afraid it is wrong
to be so happy in a scene of mere worldly
gaiety  though the Church does not condemn
innocent gaiety, does it, dear ? Then there is
tomorrow to look forward to. I shall so
enjoy seeing Whitehills again in a new light.
But I shall leave you now, Iris, for you do
look tired, and no wonder ; but you must beat
your brightest tomorrow.'

Iris was at last at liberty to pace up and
down her room, toss on her sleepless pillow,
and cry, ' Oh ! I am glad it was not my real
birthday,' with the restless, tumultuous, half-fanciful
trouble of youth.

END or VOL. I.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

3 0112 000960242

\

A]

r>

m

mm

-.- "Sili-s !* 4a -r

! . '-'

e  K

I f 1 1

  V i

w

,*s

="

*'t. r-'

vx\\t

i ' *



"H

 SI '. M>

\ V

tinMiMJi0xiMdxilii

eTh Must t ; '.So-'"- -'' e A'/ny/n Fee for

The person charging this material is responsible for
ns return to the library from which it was""tM
on or before the Latest Date stamped below
Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reanno # w 
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400 "diversity.

JJIC REC'D

rp'n "r-' o i

 

-'89

MAY 2m

July 2



%



V

\l

Lice O-i096

HI

>Mft*4i i

FOXGLOVE MANOR. By Robert Buchanan.
PRINCES AXINE. By Ouida.

DOROTHY Ester. By Walter Besant.
A DRAWN GAME. By Basil.
SAINT MUNGO'S CITY. By Sarah Tatler.

HEART SALVAGE BY SEA AND LAND. By

Mrs. Cooper.

CHATTO AND WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

31 oljcl

Bv SARAH Tatler

AUTHOR OF 'the BRIDE's PASS,' ' WHAT SHE CAME THROUGH,'

'saint ml'ngo's city,' etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. IL

CHATTO

AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[All rights reserved

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/beautybeastnovel02tytl

s/.Z

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER PAGE

Evil HAY-making AT WHITE HELLS - - - 1
XVIII. THE BEAST THROWS HIMSELF AT BEAUTY's

FEET - - - - - - 31

XIX. 'one WAS FAR AWAY, Ant ONE WAS NEAR ' 66

XX. AN INTER View - - - - - 87

XXL ANOTHER INTERVIEW - - - - 112

XXII. A RUDE Idol - 152

XXIII. THE BEAST WALLOWS IN THE ille - - 178

XXIV. LADY THWAITE'S LAST PRANK - - - 195
XXV. BEAUTY AT THE FEET OF THE BEAST - - 211

XXVI. THE ANGEL OF DEATH SMITES TWICE - 235

XXVII. A FUGITIVE IN BROAD DAY - - - 264

going to Whitehills, however awkward and
terrible the hay-making might present itself
to her in anticipation.

She could not feign bodily illness which she
did not feel, and though she had felt it, she
had a vivid perception that Lady Fermor,
who was out of humour already, would have
scouted any ailment short of the disfiguring
eruption of small-pox or the dangerous revelations
of delirious fever. She would have
dragged Iris in her train to Whitehills a half
dead offering to its master, should he condescend
to accept it.

Iris could not beg ofi" from the expedition
like the Mildmays  Mrs. Mildmay on the
score of a severe headache, and Mr. Mildmay
because he had business letters to answer, and
some other things to attend to, before he left
with his wife next day.

More prying to do,' Lady Fermor commented
behind his back. ' Well, they are no
loss, a couple of kill-joys, he with his stupid
pomposity, and she with her die-away airs.'

Tom Mildmay 's excuse to himself was :
That match is not made up yet, from what
I saw last night, and surely I am not called
upon to put myself out of my way to push

the girl's interests or hatch the old woman's
chickens

There was only one small comfort of which
Iris could avail herself. She arrived at a
clear understanding with Lucy Acton, as she
had come to an explanation with Lady
Thwaite.

There is not one word of truth in the
story that I am to marry Sir William Thwaite,'
she impressed on Lucy with solemn earnestness
; * only I fear grand mamma T\dshes it
she added, with a fall in her voice and an
involuntary tight interlacing of her fingers.
 But I could not do it, even for grand mamma ;
my duty to her and to poor grandpa does
not absolve me from my duty to myself, to
Sir William, and to God, Lucy. He ordained
marriage as the nearest, most sacred tie, a
relationship we might not enter into lightly,
with divided minds. Think how unlike Sir
William and I are, with not a taste, very
likely not an opinion or principle, in common.'

Lucy listened, startled, while Iris continued
to speak in the same unnaturally grave, almost
portentous, tones.

I don't mean that he is a bad man ; very
likely he is far better than I am, since he has

212

stood SO great a change in his fortunes
without breaking out into any extravagant or
outrageous conduct. But have you forgotten
how we used to talk of him, and laugh and
wonder whether he would put his hat under
his chair, and what he would do with his
gloves and handkerchief?' asked Iris, with a
reproachful, wavering smile. * A worse than
half educated, under-bred man  a man rustic
and dull, as one might fairly expect, and very
possibly arrogant and vulgar-minded, though
he has had no great opportunity of showing
it, and I never suspected it till last night,'
said Iris in her truthfulness. ' Oh ! Lucy,
how could I marry such a man 'i How could
you ever think it V

I beg your pardon, dear, if I have hurt
you,' Lucy apologised in a convicted voice.
She was sorry, not only because she had
brought herself the length of making up her
mind to the match, hardly for the sake of her
subscription lists, since, to do her justice, Lucy
was a good deal more of a woman than a
secretary, but because she happened to be a
practical sensible girl, largely trusted by her
elders. Young though she was, she knew
something of the sad reasons, with which Iris

was very partially acquainted, why it would
be by far the happiest prospect for Lucy's
friend if she could find herself early and safely
settled in life. Supposing Iris could have
brought. herself to entertain a suitable regard
for Sir William, and he were the worthy,
plain fellow that Lucy had been persuading
herself for the last twelve hours he undoubtedly
was, here would have been a grave difficulty
joyfully solved at once.

But, of course, it was for Iris to judge, and
if she could not of her free-will look on Sir
William in the light of her future husband 
which was not surprising, after all, poor
child !  it would never be her friend Lucy
who would use pressure on Iris's inclinations.
Lucy would leave that to Lady Fermor.
Lucy would even aid and abet Iris against her
formidable grandmother, so far as the welfare
of the Eector and the parish would let so good
a Churchv/oman endanger it for any private
and mundane matter. However, the affair
was unfortunate altogether, and Lucy feared
with some reason there were hard times in
store for Iris.

As for Iris, she was still capable of thankfulness
for small mercies. It was a relief to

think Lucy would not come to her again and
speak of Sir William with the forced, sanguine
praise Lucy had adopted last night. Iris had
a sense of support in the conviction that Lucy
would help her when she could, in keeping
out of his reach at the hay-making, were it
but to atone for the pain which her friend's
credulity had given Lis. Such an atonement
would be a hundred times better than any
amount of apologies for causing Lis a passing
mortification.

The girls had fixed to wear nearly similar
gowns  white, with blue ribands for Iris, and
pink for Lucy. But when Iris appeared
before her grandmother, she was summarily
dismissed to change her dress.

You look too washed out this morning for
that childish white frock, girl. What a
wretched constitution you must have, to be
tired out by one ball ! I have danced seven
hours and driven to the Derby or the Oaks,
and danced again, and gone to a breakfast at
Richmond, without being a hair the worse of
it. Put on anything rather than that white
rag to make an exhibition of your sickliness ;
which is only a bad trick, after all, for you
can walk to Knotley or Mistley Down and

back again, and feel no worse of it, when you
choose.'

Though Iris was prepared to be miserable,
though she despaired of pleasing her grandmother
this morning, she had not attained
the age when vexation and worry merge into
personal hopelessness, and there is a certain
listless, half-bitter satisfaction in being utterly
indifferent to externals. Iris had still the
feelings of her kind, in seeking, however unhappy
she might be, to comply with her
obligation to the world in making; the most of
her personal advantages, and looking her best
under difficulties  whether in public or in
private. It seems perverse of Iris, for, apart
from her grandmother's wishes, it ought to
have served the girl better to wear sack-cloth
and ashes, and look in harmony with her
attire. Instead, she put on a garment of
mixed dark and light blue, which set off her
fair complexion, even in its dimness and
waxenness, this morning. She tried on a
straw hat with maize ribands, which warmed
her present lack of colour, and removed from
the pale pink in her cheeks the slightest strain
of sallowness. If she were no longer like the
red, red rose, she was like the maiden's blush,

whose very faintness of tint is exquisite, and
competes successfully with the hue, * angry
and bright of its brilliant sister.

Lady Fermor made no comment on the
change, though she spoke a few words apart to
Iris. * You will mind what you are about,
Iris. There is neither to be mock-modesty
nor barefaced flirtation. I think either of
them in shockingly bad taste. I was sorry
to receive a hint that you had been guilty of
the one or the other last night. What ! you
do not understand me, Miss Compton ? I
give you credit for more brains. What do
you call mock-modesty but an assumption of
ignorance of a gentleman's intentions, which
have been patent to anyone who chose to use
his or her eyes for the last three months % If
the ignorance had been real, it must have
been idiotic. And what is your idea of a
hoydenish flirtation but to turn your shoulder
and run away from a man who has my leave
to pursue you, and will stop you before many
days are done ? I could give you a good
shaking for your pains.'

Grandmamma, will you let me speak to
you ?' begged Iris, shaking already in every
limb before the crisis, but nerving herself, like

a brave-hearted girl with a clear conscience,
for the encounter.

No, I will not,' answered Lady Fermor,
with hardly restrained violence of absolute
denial, so that the sound reached Lucy in the
other window. ' I have no time to listen to
your flighty maundering nonsense ; besides,
there is nothing further to be said. I have
already told you that you are not everybody's
bargain  that I am doing my best for you,
while you are behaving like an ungrateful
baby. Come, Miss Acton, I hear the carriage
drawing up.'

Such was the seasoning which Iris had beforehand
to the various courses of a Dresden
china fete.

Lady Fermor's party and Lady Thwaite's
party constituted the principal people at Sir
William's hay-making. The Holies had
been otherwise eno;ao;ed, and the contribution
from the Rectory, from Knotley, even from
Birkett barracks, was of inferior importance.
If Lady Fermor's ball had become Miss
Compton's, Sir William Thwaite's hay-making
was more than half Lady Fermor's. Though
Lady Thwaite had engaged to give the guests
tea in her old drawing-room, the mistress of

Lambford put in her oar again and unceremoniously
robbed the former mistress of
Whitehills of all save her bare perquisites,
while Lady Thwaite was too much of a
woman of the world to do more than shrug
her shoulders imperceptibly and smile, and
gracefully waive her superior claims.

Lady Fermor took the initiative. She knew,
or held that she knew, exactly what to do. She
had the programme cut and dry. She drove
straight to the hay-field, where Sir William was
restlessly awaiting his guests, while his reception
of them there could be made a more informal
and easy matter than it could have been
managed in the house. The old lady at once
occupied the arm-chair which she had directed
to be brought out for her, and asked for a glass
of wine to drink the hay-makers' healths and
prosperity to the crop and its master, which
she did in a spirited little speech composed for
the occasion. Then she ordered all the select
company to find rakes and toss the grass with
the best, while she sat and presided over
the work and boasted of the hay-making
machine which had superseded hay-makers at
Lambford. Thus the hay-field was as it were
declared open to the better classes, and the fete

set a-going sheerly by the energy of Lady
Fermor.

The scene was pleasant to see. The great
hay-field consisted of acre upon acre of billowy
meadow land just adjoining the park of AYhite-
hills. The field commanded clumps of fine
old trees and vistas of green. At the end of
one vista stood the long, low, white manor-house,
which had survived the vicissitudes of
centuries, of kings, and of people, and had
still been handed down from Thwaite to
Thwaite, till it fell into the hands of a sergeant
in a marching regiment.

Not infrequently the moist climate of East-mich
had a mist  silver or golden, or dank-white
 like a shroud, to hang its light, loose,
wavy veil, or to wind its hazy, tight, straight
folds about the landscape. To-day, after long
dry, warm weather, there was no more of this
mist than the softest amber haze of heat, which
tempered the droughty blue of the sky even
more than one or two fleecy white clouds flecking
the expanse, and, making chequers of shade,
afforded a sense of refreshment. The weather-wise
pointed to these clouds, and coupling with
them the well-known sign of the low darts
here and there of the rooks, said Sir William

\

was drying his hay in time, for the fine weather
would not last much longer.

The swathes of grass passing from green to
russet filled the air with dusty sweetness, as
they were whirled and swirled about, not with
the precision and monotony of the hay-making
machine, but with the more picturesque irregularity
of human arms and human wills. Here
and there a precocious cluster of haycocks
showed where the early sun had shone most
strongly and the early workers toiled most
diligently.

The true workers, tanned and freckled, with
an ancient green-stained smock frock-or two
lingering in the ranks of jackets, and a snow-white,
deep pink, or fresh lilac sun-bonnet
asserting itself at different points among the
brown straw-hats, were in keeping with the
occupation. It was pursued with a sort of
dogged industry and slow humorous pretence
of the primitive hay makers at not so much
as seeing their esoteric fitful assistants.

Lady Termor, in her chair, with her nodding
plumes, and her stiff fingers covered with rings,
looked the mediaeval chatelaine to perfection.
The artificial workers lent greater animation
and gaiety to the heavier, more sombre groups

among which they mingled for a few hours.
The ladies and gentlemen brought delicate play
and airy flutter, like the accompaniment of fairy
music to the deeper tones of the human choir.
There were the lighter swish of soft dresses, and
the daintier effect of wonderful shades of colour
in primrose and daffodil, peacock-blue, cardinal-red,
and sea-coral. There were graceful gambols,
with badly poised new rakes and pitchforks,,
freedom to rest every other moment, the
continual refrain of merry jesting and laughter
accompanying a labour of love and fancy, and
not of strict necessity and a workaday use
and wont.

Doubtless there were some gloomy and saturnine
souls that resisted the intrusion of fairies
among; the battered warriors and amazons, the
beaten victims of the sweat of the brow and
the bondage to poverty and toil. Sir William
himself was not without a tendency to look,
from time to time, in this light at the party he
had permitted, if not originated. But the
apathetic, much-enduring Eastwich labouring
men and women for the most part treated the
liberty taken with their class in a more genial
and wholesome, if more superficial spirit. The
appearance of the gentlefolks in the field

formed a fine sight, their antics proved a famous
diversion to their humbler neighbours, and for
that matter the grandees had their troubles as
well as their gay doings, and were but dust like
the rest of the world, which was a comfortable
reflection.

There was the squire, looking none so hearty
and heedless that anybody need eat out his
heart with envying him. Mayhap he wished
himself back among his early friends, doing a
day's work, trudging on the march, talking
and smoking their clay pipes over their mugs
of beer, when the sun went down. Mayhap
working at being a gentleman, to which he
had not been bred, turned out the hardest
work of all. The women among the real
hay-makers thought surely they would have
a taste of cowslip wine  still extant in East-with
 or elderberry wine and diet cake to
sweeten their mouths after the usual fieldfare,
when the gentlefolks were holding their
least.

In the meantime Sir William, though he
wore an expression of inflexible gravity, as one
on the eve of a grand epoch in his life, was
not a blot on his company. He showed best
in his morning dress, in which he was most at

home  any rusticity or obliviousness of what
another squire would have done without a
thought, did not come into prominence, or
merely peeped out with a species of propriety
in the relaxation of the hay-making. The
sort of fettered air which haunted him at
other times, with a depressing effect, had
largely disappeared on this occasion. In his
tweed suit and straw hat he looked the comely,
stalwart young fellow he was ; he moved about
almost freely, almost lightly.

Iris's vexation and nervous oppression 
when they were not at once confirmed by Sir
William's conduct  did not remain proof
against the fresh open-air attractiveness of the
scene, with its touches of sentiment and fantasticalness.
She had visions of Madame de
Sedge at Les Others ; and Madame Delay
at some of the innumerable country houses
of her innumerable friends, from the ' dear
Duchess ' downwards ; of Lady Sarah Lennox
on the lawn before Holland House, when
Kensington was a village and a king rode by ;
of a picture which hung up yonder in the
drawing-room at Whitehills. It represented a
Lady Thwaite whom Sir Joshua had painted
as a shepherdess, and neither her husband nor

anybody else had resented the masquerade,
though the very next generation had punished,
with lifelong expulsion from the family, a son
of the house who took a gamekeeper's daughter
for his bride.

The light returned to Iris's eyes, and the
colour to her cheek. Sir William had not so
much as spoken to her, except in a general
welcome to Lady Fermor's party. He did
not come near her. Was a great deliverance
granted to her ? Had he got his lesson so
that he would not affront her again by confounding
common charity with full sympathy
and warm regard ? In that case her grandmother
could do nothing, and he would soon
forget his baulked expectations. She, Iris,
did not think she could ever again slumber in
such sweet security and lightness of heart, as
she had allowed herself to feel, but at least
she might be happy to-day in the sunshine
in the meadow, among friendly young people,
her contemporaries.

Iris and Lucy and Ludovic Acton, with
Lady Thwaite's niece Janie, flung about the
future hay for a quarter of an hour in an
orderly professional manner. Then Lucy,
backed with half-shy glee by Janie, turned

upon the naval lieutenant. They showered
the contents of their rakes upon him till he
was stuck all over, from the crown of his hat
to the soles of his boots, with seeded grass.
Iris looked on and laughed with maidenly
coyness. Five or six years ago she would
have been forward in the game, for which she
still felt a secret inclination, but she was too
grown up and decorous to engage in sisterly
or schoolgirl romping. He did not mind it,
though there were stray specimens of the
seeds in his sandy beard and moustache for
the next hour. His sister was constantly
imploring him, in vain, to let her pick them
out. He said they did not bother him, and
would not at all interfere with his flute-playing.
He had brought his second-best flute in his
pocket, as he felt certain Lady Thwaite and
Sir William must have made some provision
for drawing-room music. For anything farther,
the seeds ought to stay where they were, as a
punishment to Lucy for her sisterly behaviour.
He did not mean any reflection on
Miss Janie, who could do as she pleased, and
was not to be considered accountable for his
acquiring the look of having slept last night
in a hay field, like any tramp or vagabond. It
VOL. II. , 22

was a member of his own family, his sister
Lucy, the prop of the Sunday-school, who had
set herself to draw down on him the slanderous
inference. It was too dreadful, almost more
than could be borne with manly fortitude.

The wit was of the mildest description, but
the girls laughed at it as if it had been Attic
salt. They laughed, too, when Ludovic was
the first to complain of an ache in his strong
back, and to propose a saunter round the
meadows, where the saunterers gathered all
that was left of the queen of the meadow and
ragged robin.

Iris suggested that they should sit down,
when Mr. Acton might convert himself into a
Corydon or an Orpheus, on the spot, by piping
to them on his reed  toot tooting on his flute
she meant  if he had not broken it when he
had disobeyed Lucy and everybody else, and
got his boots in a mess of clay, in spite of the
dry weather, by burrowing in the side of the
ditch after a harmless hedgehog. But Lucy
forbade him, insisting that the hay-makers
would consider the piping an invitation to
leave ofl" working and take to dancing  not
such dances as came naturally to Arcadian
shepherds and shepherdesses.

Among the hand Fide workers was a woman,
who raked and spread the grass slightly apart
from her neighbours. She had come on Sir
William's express invitation, but she was not
well received by the other field-workers. They
had little to say against her. It was nothing
to them that old Abe Smith had a doubtful
reputation as an under-keeper, and only
retained his post till he should cross the seas
to his son, by a cross whim of old Sir John's,
which he seemed to have left as a legacy to
the present baronet. It was even little to the
lasses and wives and mothers that Honor was
not like other young women. She was masculine
and wild in her ways. Instead of staying
in the cottage at Hawley Scrub and attending
to her housewifery, as they stayed at home
and scoured and washed and plied their needles
when they were not at field-work, she lived in
the woods, summer and winter, like her father.
She was said to aid and abet him in his nefarious
doings, if so be he had nefarious doings.
She was not a relation of the common country
people's, old Abe being come of a nearly
extinct race of settlers, while Honor's mother
had belonged to the quarry-folk who dwelt
hard upon Mistley Downs, and were, next to

222

the ancient squatters, the most unsettled and
unruly natives of the district. But the great
offence was that Honor was not, and never
had been, a field-worker ; and the ordinary
Eastwich field-worker looked as dubiously and
disapprovingly on an interloper as any exclusive
set, high or low, objects to an intruder
into their charmed circle. The squire might
bring as many ladies and gentlemen into the
field as he liked, but a strange field-worker
was another matter. That was not to bethought
of. That was not Eastwich manners.


The solitary figure was conspicuous in the
black gown, with the red handkerchief not
worn round her throat, but drawn over her
abundant brown hair and knotted under her
chin, as her sole protection against the beating
down rays of the afternoon sun. The headgear
lent an outlandish, half-gipsy air to
Honor, to which she did not object. It
certainly suited with her being held at arm's
length by her fellow workers, neither did she
appear to mind the ostracism. Perhaps she
took it as a compliment, for hers was an odd
character, with its own peculiar pride, as well
as its dash of cynicism. She might put down

the distance at which she was kept to the fact
that, as a keeper's daughter, if he had been a
flourishing keeper of unblemished fame, she
would have moved in a grade of life considerably
higher than that of the day-labourers, her
present companions. This reflection doubtless
helped her philosophy, for she looked contented
enough whenever she paused to contemplate
the amount and the thoroughness of the work
to which she was unused.

Sir William did not fail Honor Smith. Like
Lady Fermor, he did not lose sight of a friend.
He came down to her corner of the field several
times and spoke with her, asking how her
father was, when he proposed to take out their
berths in the Liverpool ship, how she was
getting on with her work, and how long she
thought it would take for the grass to dry.
But Sir William spoke also, though with greater
effort, to other men and women in his pay
with whom he had struck up an acquaintance.
There was nothing; at all striking; in his notice
of Honor Smith till Major Pollock strolled
towards her, and began to talk to her in a
way that interfered with her work and annoyed
her, to judge by the manner in which she
rested on her rake and flung back her head.

She had been a motherless girl from her first
recollection ; and old Abe had not been the
most efficient of guardians, so that she had
early learnt to take care of herself. Nobody
dared to say that, with all her faults, she had
not been vigilant in defending her womanhood
from unworthy aggression ; yet here she found
herself obliged to stand still, and suffer what
she was not slow to regard as the insolent
advances of a gentleman who would take no
repulse, whom she could not escape, neither
could she dismiss him from her presence.

It was then Sir William crossed the field
swiftly to Honor Smith's aid.

'You know, Honor, I am looking for half
the field being in haycock to-night.' He
addressed her as if she were his friend as well
as his servant, while he ignored the unwelcome,
compulsory guest brought upon him by Lady
Fermor. ' I count upon you doing your best.
Look here, you must not permit any interference
with your work.'

All right, Sir William,' she said, very much
as a free-spoken man would have answered
him, while her white teeth flashed out in a
broad smile against the warm brown of her
cheeks and the red of her handkerchief ; ' will

you be so good as to repeat your orders to
this here gentleman ?'

In spite of her smile and her masculine
tone, there was very much of the woman in
the mingled impatience, anger, and disgust of
the last sentence.

Oh, I'm off ! Excuse me. I had no idea
I was guilty of an intrusion,' the Major
mumbled superciliously and impertinently ashe
lounged away, giving more freedom to the
expression of his thoughts the farther he got
out of Sir William's hearing. * So my gentleman
has two strings to his bow, low hypocrite
and temperance dog that he is ! It would not
be a bad idea to give the old beldame a hint.'

But Major Pollock did not feel equal to
fulfilling his intention, though a fine opening
presented itself to him the very next moment.
Lady Fermor, who had been fully alive to the
little episode, made an imperious signal for
him to come to her side, and told him roundly:

Pollock, if you cannot behave yourself at
this time of the day, you shan't enter decent
society under my auspices again.'

What does she mean by decent society X
muttered her follower, as disloyal as he was
abject. ' Her own, or that of the stuck-up

swashbuckler whom she means to call her
grandson, or the red-capped woman who is
Miss Compton's rival ? A fine collection !'

But though Major Pollock refrained from
using his foul tongue when he was called to
account, and was cowed by Lady Fermor's
rough reprimands, he registered both the
offence to his pride and the choice communication
he desired to convey, for a future
occasion.

Lady Fermor's seat was not far from a gate *
into the park where a side path led to the
house. Sir William had done his best to make
everything easy for his patroness. He gave
her his arm and conducted her carefully to
the gate, a movement which was a sign for
the company to follow their leaders. Within
the gate a sedan-chair, which had been used by
the late Sir John, was drawn up. Sir William
placed the old lady in it ; then he took his
stand by the open gate, and in a dumb show,
which was not without its clumsy grace of
honest hospitality, did not so much receive as
show in his company. He was making himself
their servant, according to his sense of a
host's part. As Lis Compton came up he
found voice to address her :

I hope you are enjoying yourself, Miss
Compton ?'

She had no choice except to answer :

'Thanks ; I am enjoying myself very much,
Sir William.'

She felt aggrieved as well as troubled by
the hot flush of pleasure, the momentary broad
smile, which her matter-of-course words brought
into his face, and by the emphatic nod of
acquiescence and approval volunteered by her
grandmother.

Sir William would suffer no one but himself
to wheel the chair along the by-path which
turned into the main sweep and terminated at
the entrance to the house.

The rest of the party, preceding the two,
entered the fine hall which had failed to impress
its owner on the March day when Mr.
Miles brought the heir home, and passing the
library, went into Lady Thwaite's old drawing-room.


The former Lady of Whitehills was in her
element as she again presided in the well-known
domain, welcoming everybody, entertaining
everybody, seeing that Mrs. Cray and
Cumberbatch supplied the company with tea,
or wine, or ices, as they preferred. Mrs. Cray

did not relish the deputy mistress. The housekeeper
might stomach an ' own lady,' if Sir
William chose to bring her on the scene, but
not the late madam, who came to remark on
changes, and call for this or that to which she
had been accustomed, but which was not
cleaned and put out for the occasion. But as
for Cumberbatch, he was as much in his
element as Lady Thwaite was in hers. He
considered this was something like a return,
on a small scale, to the dignified hospitality of
the Dean.

Lady Thwaite was supported by the Eector,
in a flush of benignity, divided between the
advisability of lending his countenance to a
lady who was in the position of hostess  a
trying position under the circumstances  or
of hurrying off to relieve Sir William of the
charge of Mr. Acton's old prodigal, the most
unmistakable and unmitigated prodigal in his
flock.

Lady Thwaite had an elevating sense of
magnanimity in doing her duty, under such
altered conditions, in the Whitehills drawing-room
; she had also a considerable feeling of
enjoyment in displaying the magnanimity,
knowing that almost everybody to whom she

sent a cup of tea and a shaving of bread-and-butter,
or a pile of grapes, or a peach in lieu
of the strawberries which had not waited for
the second hay-cutting, was remembering to
say, ' Poor dear Lady Thwaite, how unselfish
and amiable she is, and how much Sir William
and the rest of us are obliged to her, for she
must feel all this dreadfully. She must be
overpowered by a throng of old associations.'

Lady Thwaite was not overpowered in the
line sketched out for her ; but she had some
pensive perceptions which gave her the
agreeable conviction that there was no sham
in her magnanimity. How well her old
drawing-room looked, bare as it was ! what a
poor little place her drawing-room at Nether-ton
would always be in comparison ! Of
course she could not carry ofi" the carved
cornice, the caryatides of the chimney-piece,
the space, those odd available nooks with
their charming; air of retreat and delightful
lights and shades. That relic of the musicians'
gallery, the only one left in the county  she
used to be so proud of it, and show it off to
all strangers. In like manner she had exhibited
the two Sir Joshuass. They were heirlooms,
but she might have asked for the

fragment of old tapestry hanging over the
railing of the gallery. She had been too
modest, particularly as Sir William doubtless
imagined it a bit of old carpet, and wondered
what it was doing there.

Iris could not escape from certain new
sensations when she entered Whitehills again.
She had the taste to value it, and she could
not avoid reminding herself that if Lady
Termor and Lady Thwaite were right, as her
awakened instincts told her they were, all
might be hers. This might become her stately,
beautiful home  her home, with a man on
whom its mellowed dignity, refinement, and
comfort would be thrown away, who might
like to pull down the old pile, and replace
it by a hideous staring modern mansion,
which had not borrowed one idea from
Ruskin or Morris, Kensington or Burnham
Green. If Sir William did not meditate such
wholesale desecration, he was probably only
waiting for his marriage to re-furnish White-hills,
' right off,' like a new pin, as she had
once heard him express himself, with waggon-loads
of gorgeous chairs and couches, and
curtains brought down from Shoolbred's or
Maple's, and only the modern antiques rejected

along with the veritable antiques.
Certainly taste was not everything, was not
very much in a manes moral and spiritual
composition ; still, it stood for a good deal in
the girl's mind  for that culture which, however
laughed at in its extravagance, still
marks the difference between knowledge and
ignorance, polish and roughness, and represents
to a gentlewoman easy sympathy,
natural companionship, familiar interests, and
almost involuntary respect and regard. She
was rio;ht in what she had said last nio;ht.
Whitehills, even though it had been Warwick
Castle or Windsor, was not worth a girl's
selling herself that she might be its temporary
owner, and dwell there in loveless state and
bounty, in heavy dulness and loneliness, inconstant
petty affront and perturbation, for
what its untutored, sometimes uncouth master
might or might not say and do.

It was better for him, if he had been presumptuous
 she held to her point, he had
mistaken her manner unwarrantably  that she
should see all the incongruity and folly of
the proposal, therefore it did not choke her
to eat his bread at second-hand from Lady
Thwaite. Iris felt calm again. She could go

and look at the Sir Joshuass with Lucy, and
speculate whether the Lady Thwaite of a
hundred years ago had ever tried making hay,
or had been at the pains to look at the process,
save in some French print of ' Tn Amusement
Pastorale' though she had been an Eastwich
bride and had dwelt at Whitehills for the
most of her life. If it had been otherwise,
could she have dressed herself in what looked
like a pink gauze sacque, and worn a mob-cap
with a hat suspended by the ribbons
half way down her shoulders, and employed
such a toy rake as would not have gathered
more than half-a-dozen blades of grass at a
time ?

King Lud had his will. There was a little
music extracted with difficulty from the old
piano, for Lady Thwaite had carried away her
Broadsword, and this was an instrument ' as
old as the hills,' the most musical man
present felt bound to protest with a groan, an
out-of-tune thing without the additional octaves,
which had been used by Sir John's last
unmarried sister. Lady Thwaite played first,
but Iris, though she played among the other
girls, declined to follow immediately after her
hostess.

THE BEAST THROWS HIMSELF AT BEAUTY's FEET.

Reis was getting too bold, far too bold ; she
took herself to task disconsolately soon afterwards,
when all her nerves were jarred, and
her heart again sent fluttering in her
throat. There had been some talk of the
garden, and Lady Thwaite had asked Sir
William about the lilies which ouo-ht to be in
blossom on the pond, and about the Japanese
lilies which she had introduced with success
into the tank at the end of the taro-est

o

greenhouse. There was a little stir indicative
of an adjournment to the gardens, but Iris
felt quite safe in joining in the movement.
It would only be the young people who would
go out again before returning home to dinner,
and mentally she classed Sir William, in spite
of his last night's waltzing, with the elderly
folks, and seated him in her imagination beside

Lady Fermor, to whom he seemed bent on
doing the honours of his house. Iris was
ready to acknowledge, even in her present prejudiced
state of mind, that the homage did not
come ill from the prime of manhood to tottering,
though untamed and undaunted old age.
Instead, her dream of security was rudely
broken by her seeing Sir William standing in
front of her, and hearing him say, ' Miss
Compton, would you mind going to see the
lilies V

She did mind, but she could not say so. She
had an instantaneous comprehension that the
hour and the man had come, and she must
meet them with the courage which other girls
summoned up for similar trials. She took his
arm and walked out, with the knowledge that
all the eyes in the room were fixed on the
couple, as they had been last night. She dared
not let herself think that Lucy must be pitying
her, lest the sense of her friend's compassion
should shake her firmness.

Slight and matter-of-course as the advance
might appear, it was really the most direct,
unmistakable approach he had made to her
that day. She would never have looked upon
it as anything save a host's politeness, and Sir

William's growing savoir faire, if it had not
been for what she had been told last night,
which had robbed her of her ease and peace of
mind, till she could not put an indifferent interpretation
on a simple action.

Iris could not tell whether Sir William had
been spurred on by her grandmother to take
the leap which lay before him, or whether it
was the spontaneous impulse of a man with
regard to whom she had not doubted that he
was a brave man. He might never have read
poetry (if she had known it, he had taken to
reading it lately, and had gone through dozens
of love poems on her account), still, he might
by instinct have arrived at an entire agreement
with the gallant Montrose :

He either fears his fate too much,

Or his deserts are small,
Who dares not put it to the touch
To gain or lose it all.'

Yet she felt the arm on which her fingers were
resting trembling as she walked along the corridor,
and she feared she would need to have
coolness for both. She had read that in certain
circumstances, under the influence of passion,
strong men are sometimes weaker than fragile
women. But whatever other girls had done
VOL. II. 23

she ought to be able to do, and surely he would
take his rejection like a man. She knew he
could not conceal his feelings, and she did
not expect him to be forbearing and generous,
especially after what her grandmother had done.
He might be rude and angry, but his anger was
not what she feared.

Withal, modest as Iris was, she never doubted
the sincerity of Sir William's sentiments, she
never fancied that he could be influenced by
any other motive than unfortunate misplaced
attachment to herself. There was little distrust,
and almost no suspicion, in Iris Compton's
nature, neither was there the least tendency
to double-dealing or trifling. There was
not the making of a coquette in her. Now
that the moment from which she had turned
away with the greatest repugnance was at
hand, she would rather face it and have it over,
because it would be better for both of them.
Then she would reckon with her grandmother ;
at least the gentle, inexperienced, ill-armed
girl would match herself with the woman who
had eaten of the fruits of the tree of the knowledge
of evil to the last bitter-sweet morsel,
who could be as furious as she was unscrupulous.


Iris only made a single attempt to direct the
course of events a little in her favour, and in
his favour also. Everybody seemed bound for
the gardens ; had she and he not better have it
out where there were fewer spectators ? at least
spectators less interested in watching the couple
from a distance, and greedily scanning each
sign of the result of the interview. If the
poor man were in danger of making a spectacle
of himself, ought she not to screen him as far
as she could from exposure ?

If it is all the same to you, Sir William,'
said Iris, with an involuntary tremor in her
voice, ' I should prefer to go down to the hay-field
again. I should like to speak to an old
acquaintance there.'

Whatever you please,' he told her hurriedly.
We may come back by the lilies. They are
like  they make me think of you  I mean of
how you looked last night.'

She had nothing to answer. She was afraid
he might go on to reproach her with slighting
him at her ball. Yet how could he have felt
the slight if he cared to remember her looks
last night % She was afraid everything remained
to be told. She began to talk fast on
another subject in order to excuse herself for

232

neglecting the lilies. She was nerving herself
to give him a hearing and an answer once for
all. But she did not see that she need keep
silent, and bring on a premature declaration 
that she might not rather stave it off as long as
possible. It was inconsistent, but it was the
struggle between her girlish courage and girlish
cowardice.

I wish to go down and see Honor Smith,'
she said, in what sounded to him as the most
extraordinary coincidence. * I used to know
her long ago.'

She succeeded in arresting for a moment the
words which were trembling on his lips, and
arousing his curiosity instead.

Do you know Honor Smith ?' he inquired
in surprise. ' She did me a bit of a service
not long since ; that is how I came to know
her. How did it come about that you and
she were acquainted ?'

Simply enough. I was living alone with
my governess, at Lambford. Grandmamma
and grandpa used to go a good deal about
in those days, and I was always left at home
with Miss Burrage. She was a good, kind
woman, who tried to make me care for others,
and she began with little girls like myself.

The Rector told us of a child a few years older
than I was, who had fallen down a bank and
broken her arm. She had no mother or
female relative ; she was lying alone, only
taken care of by her father and brother, when
they were at home, over at the cottage at
Hawley Scrub. Miss Burrage took me there
several times, and we did what we could for
poor Honor. When she was well again she
used to bring me presents of wild-flowers,
blackberries, and nuts, and birds' eggs, for
years afterwards, till grand mamma put a stop
to it. She says, people did not run in and out
of cottages and have such acquaintances when
she was young. I am afraid she had heard
something; to the disadvantage of Honor and
her family.'

Just so,' said Sir William, with his impenetrable
manner. ' But you have no horror of
poor common people and their ways V

Horror !' exclaimed Iris, a little taken
aback, ' I should hope not. Neither is grand-mamma
horrified, but she thinks the social
lines between the classes should be strictly
drawn. They were so long ago,' she ended a
little nervously, with a consideration for his

origin.

Then why did she open her doors to me ?'
he startled her by asking a little sarcastically.
I beg your pardon,' he added immediately
with a softened manner.  What although it
was because I had come into my own, and was
master of Whitehills here, since I do not believe
you would have made the same distinction  I
do not mean that I do not know what was
fitting for the likes of you  but at least you
could keep company with Honor Smith and
not forget what was due either to her or to
yourself. You two were friends. It is what
I should have expected from you.'

She was saved from the necessity of saying
anything further. The two had been walking
fast, and Honor had made such progress with
her work that she was turning over and spreading
the swathes of grass close to the park wall,
while the rest of the haymakers were several
paces behind.

I have brought a young lady to see you,
Honor,' he said with an eager pride which hurt
Iris. ' She says that she does not want an introduction,
for you and she were thick together
when you were children.'

Miss Compton is very kind,' said Honor,
with some pleasure in her face and voice. At

the same time she looked sharply at the two,
and she stepped back, idly moving the hay with
her foot, instead of drawing nearer. ' It is a
power of years since we were acquainted,' she
added with g-rowinor reserve, 'and I have not
had any other friend of the kind, so that we
have fallen out of knowledge like, and it
don't seem worth while to rake up the past
and begin to build upon it.'

Nonsense !' said Sir William bluntly.

I am not surprised that you should think
so, Honor,' said Iris, a little pained nevertheless,
' but I could not help our old friendship
being stopped ; it was always pleasant to me.
After Miss Burrage left  you remember Miss
Burrage, and how she could put your bandages
right, and knew exactly what you would like
to eat and drink ?  I was as lonely a girl as
you were, perhaps lonelier, for I had neither
father nor brother. You may see and believe
I have not forgotten you.'

Oh, don't go for to heed what I say, miss !'
burst out Honor, with shame and contrition.
 I have run clean wild, as the other women
among the workers will tell you. I am as bad
as the women who 'list in disguise, or get into
the Queen's ships in Jack Tar's clothes, and

are only found out when they are dead or
dying. It would be a jolly lark, and I think
I could die game. But I am speaking to a
delicate young lady as was good to me when
I were sick and little, and I might speak what
would suit her ears better. I am glad to have
seen and spoken with you again, Miss Compton
; and I wish you all the happiness you
deserve,' she said a little formally, and glanced
doubtfully at Sir William.

Faith, you're in a queer humour, Honor,'
said Sir William discontentedly. *I never
heard that you set up for a rowdy or a
gipsy.'

You don't know me yet, Sir William,'
answered Honor curtly.

Is it true, Honor, that you and your
father are going to cross the sea V inquired
Iris. * If so, will you let me wish you all the
freedom you like and all the prosperity you can
meet with out there ? Some day we may hear
of you as successful settlers who have not
feared privations, and who have held the last
of the Need Indians at bay.'

Honor looked up with a brighter face. * Yes,
you may. That's a good wish ; them are kind
words.' Then a shade of sullenness fell

again across her face, and she bent her head
over her work and began anew to exert her
entire energies in drawing together and shaking
out the hay, as if she would put an end to
the conversation. * It is the best that can
happen to me since I've missed what the likes
of you might have made of me,' she said again
with bitterness.

Iris attempted no rejoinder, no fresh reminder
that she had been without power to
act otherwise than she had done. She stood
silent for a moment, at last she turned back
with Sir William strolling by her side. ' I
never thought Honor Smith would grow into
a woman like this,' Iris said regretfully. ' She
was such a bright, warm-hearted girl.'

You see,' he said awkwardly in his agitation,
 she missed her great good ; and how am I
ever to ask it for myself  that you will take
me and make me something better than I am  
better than anything I have ever thought
ofr

Don't speak so. Sir William,' she begged
him low, but with the utmost earnestness of
entreaty. * Indeed, I wish you and every
human being well, but you are asking what
I cannot give. No human being is able to

aid another in the way you seem to think.
It is not allowed to humanity ; it is a far
higher prerogative. You can be a good man
the best of men if you will, with God helping
you. You do not need to ask a girl like
me, or the mightiest power on earth, to help
you.'

*But you may do what you can to help
me he urged. ' You may make me a happy
or miserable man, Miss Compton. Do you
know the difference between the two ? You
may make this place a blessing or a curse tome,
and perhaps to more than me. I know,
none better, how terribly far I am from you 
what a tremendous favour I am asking ; but
if you could bring yourself to grant it, there
is nothing I can imagine that I would not do
to pleasure you  to make you as happy as a
queen. My sister  I had a sister once who
did not think so badly of me  said she believed
I could make any woman happy if I
tried. That was rank folly, and because
she was rare fond of me, for I was her
lad, whom she had mothered for many a year.
But, Miss Compton, there's nothing I would
not try.'

Oh, don't say that again,' besought Iris in

her pain. * I believe you, but I never thought
it had gone so far as this. If I had only
known  if I could have done anything to
prevent it !'

Did you not know ? Could you not
guess '?' he asked wistfully, with a little resentment
stealing into his tones. ' I dare say
I could not put it to you  could not make
you understand as a man like yourself could
have done ; and I was a coward when I feared
to scare or offend you. Your grandmother
knew almost from the first. She gave me encouragement
; she said plainly I had her consent,
or I might not have presumed.'

Don't talk of presumption,' she protested.
Only think how you are wasting your regard !
Call up your pride, and don't waste your 
your liking for me any longer. You have a
right  every man has a right to ask a return
for what he gives, or to take it back without
letting it lie unacknowledged and unaccepted 
I don't say spurned  no girl with a heart in her
breast would spurn such an offering, unless it
were forced upon her.'

In time she might stoop and pick it up,'
he said quickly.

Oh no. not if there were such an unlikeness

and such unsuitability as exist here. She
would have been very sorry that such an idea
had ever entered into a man's head, but she
would be firm when truth and happiness were
at stake.'

Truth !' he repeated passionately. * I love
you true as the heavens above us. Happiness
! I should be the happiest man the
world ever saw, if you but said, " Will
Thwaite, next year, or five or ten years hence,
I will give a thought to what you said after
the Whitehills hay-making  if you go on improving
yourself nearer to a gentleman, you
shall have your reward before you leave this
world." '

But that is not the truth, and the happiness
you imagine would be a short-lived
delusion,' she persisted in words that she
knew must cut deep, but so the operator has
to use the knife if he will save the victim ;
and she was doing what she had to do with
keen suffering to herself. ' It is not only that
we have been brought up quite differently,
with other customs and standards, but that
we have so little in common which makes your
notion that we could become close companions
and fast friends, and be happy together,

incredible in its absurdity. Forgive me for
saying so, but you will soon see it yourself ;
you will be conscious before long that you
have only been carried away by a passing
fancy for the first girl you saw after you came
to Whitehills, who spoke as she felt, out of
simple goodwill. You will thank me ; yes, I
believe you will live to thank me for saving,
not only myself, but you, from a great blunder
and a lifelong disaster.'

Is there anything to equal the fearless confidence
even of the wisest, most modest vouno;
girl when she thinks the path of duty lies
plain before her, and that she has to follow it
at whatever cost ? The only parallel is the
innocent, uncomprehending sincerity which
may crush with the weight of lead the object
on which it falls.

Sir William's ruddy colour faded, and he
writhed under the blow inflicted by the usually
kind, gentle hand ; but he had still a man's
spirit left in him to resent and deny his share
of her inferences. 'You are wrongs, Miss
Compton. I mean you are altogether and
hugely wrong where I have to do with what
you say. I may be  since you will have it I
am  a poor lout of a fellow, but I know this,

that my love for you is not a light fancy, and
that I shall never thank you for parting us, if
so be you do part us  never, though I were to
live a hundred lives !'

She sighed an impatient sigh. He had
succeeded in stirring up in her that sense of
personal affront with which she had first heard
of his suit. She began again to feel indignant
on her own account, as well as deeply hurt for
him. She spoke, as it sounded to him, more
mercilessly and cruelly than before, though
she judged it a just and humane cruelty.

 And I cannot, now or ever, care for you as
you wish, as you are entitled to ask of any
girl, if you are justified in addressing her at
all, as you have addressed me. I must say,'
continued Iris with a swelling heart, and her
little head held higher than was its wont,
'that I don't think you are justified in  in
making love or proposing to me by anything
that I have ever said or done. You are not
entitled to draw down such a trial on me,
whoever may be in fault. But it has all been
a wretched mistake, and it is better to forget
it at once, and for ever, than to seek to apportion
the share of blame to everybody concerned,'
she hurried on. ' Sir William, you

spoke of my stooping to pick up your regard
it is you who are stooping and degrading
yourself, if you say another word to me on the
subject, after what I have said to you  with
real sorrow and shame, because I would not
hurt anyone if I could help it, because I
believe you have been misled and have deceived
yourself

They were standing just within the gate in
the path which led to the house. He turned
round with a face in a flame again, and hands
which were clenched in desperation. He could
not restrain himself, as a man differently constituted
and differently trained might have
done.

Do you mean,' he said slowly,  that nothing
I can do will make any difference, that you
will never look on me as a lover or a husband ?
That not only I don't take your fancy now,
but that you will let some other man take it
and welcome, and hold yourself free from any
wrong done to me % But that is not all, you
think I have wronged you by telling you, with
my lady's permission, that I love you as I love
my life ; that I have loved you from the first
moment I ever saw you. You will hold me a
mean rascal, a low dog, if I demean myself

further to cringe and beseech you for what you
have said I can never get.'

*Yes,' said Iris faintly. *That is in some
sort my meaning.'

Then don't be frightened, Miss Compton.
I won't demean myself : you have heard the
last of the story. You have done with me,
and I hope you may never repent having
stripped life of all it held sweet, even to your
greatest inferior, a beggar who began life in
the gutter and was the blackguard of the
barrack-yard. I hope you'll never be sorry 
if women have any pity in their breasts  for
sending; him back to where he came from,
with ten devils, instead of one, to bear him
company.'

He was breaking from her abruptly, when
the most inappropriate interruption stopped

him.

Refreshments had been sent out to the
hay-makers  an ample and choice store of
meat and drink  by the orders of a man with
a full heart, who had been so besotted as tolet
himself be duped into thinking that the
day was to bring him blessedness, either insure
prospect or in fulfilment. The company
who were about to enjoy their feast had seen

the squire in the hay-field again with a young
lady, and afterwards standing in conversation
with her just inside the park gate. The best
mannered were struck with the opportunity of
thanking him, and, according to immemorial
precedent, drinking his health. But they
where too bashful to intrude on him and his
companion in a body. They deputed the
oldest apple-checked man in the greenest-stained
smock-frock to cross the field with his
body bent and his knotted hands clasping a
mug of ale, as if it contained the elixir vice.
He was to act as proxy for the others, and
express their general gratitude and satisfaction.


An' it please you, Squire,' he suddenly
wheezed, turning up on the other side of the
gate, and relieving the tension of his mind
by leaning on it, and resting his mug on the
top bar, * I have come to say that we're
greatly obligated for the wattles, and we're
a-drinking of your very good health.' He
paused a minute, and then gave voice to a
happy original thought, which had slowly
dawned on his mind as he was crossing the
field, *And we'll add j the young lady's very

VOL. II. 24

good health, and long life and happiness to
you both

At this ill-timed union of healths, with the
inference conveyed, poor Sir William's last
shred of endurance and composure gave way.

Get off with you and your tomfoolery !'
he cried, dealing the gate such a rough push
that he sent the old deputy staggering a few
paces. He still clasped the mug, though its
contents had been dashed in his face and spilt
all over the ground, leaving him ruefully
staring, so far as his wet eye-lashes would let
him, at the empty bottom of the vessel.

Iris shrunk back, shocked at the unseemly
outbreak. The next moment she flung open
the gate, went out, begged the old man's
pardon, and pressed upon him her slight arm
to lean upon, till he had recovered his footing.
Then he pulled out his cotton handkerchief
and mopped his face, and shaking his head,
began, in spite of the repulse he had sustained
and the disconsolateness which followed, to
make rapid way on his return to his discomfited
companions.

Sir William had started ofi" in another
direction. There was no more thought of
showing her the lilies which she had resembled,

with their white cups rocking tranquilly
on their green leaves. Some of her
fellow-visitors were appearing at the end of
the side path. Discomposed as she was, she
saw that her best plan was to join them and
pass in with them unperceived, if possible, to
the drawing-room where Lady Fermor was
waiting for her, and where Iris might say
good-bye to Lady Thwaite before the party
left. So many petty yet useful obligations,
belonging to a long code of social rules, held
Iris bound to self-restraint and courtesy. But
poor Sir William, like a half savage, did not
see why, when a tempest of misery had swept
over him, when what of rank and social importance
he possessed had become a second
time utterly embittered to him, he should
grin and bear it. He was furious with the
sense of being fooled. He was stung to the
quick by Iris Compton's absolute, wrathful
rejection of him. Why should he go back
and bow before a pack of fine people who did
not care a straw for Will Thwaite ? They
would, if they knew all, turn their straight
backs upon him in righteous indignation, and
shun, as they would flee the plague, the most
distant association with a drunken brute who

242

mmnswf Of

had lain under the sentence of the lash. They
only noticed him and came to his house in
their ignorance, because he was the master of
Whitehills, and bore the title of Sir William,
and was willing to treat his betters according
to their idle fancies.

Long after Iris had accomplished successfully
her unnoticed return to the drawing-room,
so that even Lady Fermor did not
observe where her grand-daughter sat among
a group near one of the doors, there was a
murmur, rising as loud as politeness would
permit, for Sir William. Where had he gone ?
Was anybody responsible for his absence ?
Why did he desert his post and his guests ?
Here was a hitch in the simple ceremonies ;
here was a hole in this gentleman's coat which
he did not button round him so tightly that
the coarse jacket of the free-and-easy workingman
failed to peep through. Must the company
go without taking leave of their host 
without starting with his last greetings ringing
in their ears ?

Lady Fermor was craning her neck and
defying a draught in order to look out and
find what had become of Sir William and
Iris. For a wonder the old lady said nothing.

All at once she discovered him in the hay-field,
and detected Iris at the farther end of
the room. Still she said nothing, but she
squared the fleshless jaw of which age had
revealed the massive bony outline  the most
conspicuous feature, except the eyes, in the
face which had otherwise shrunk and withered
into a mummy-like representation of its former
buxom self. That squaring of the heavy jaw,
with a bending of the furrowed white brows
set on Lady Fermor's face the seal  not of a
frown, but of a scowl which few people cared
to encounter. She continued to screw her
eyes and her glass on the hay-field. The
hay-makers had eaten through their meal not
the less resolutely, though a little less jovially,
because of the rough reception their messenger
had met with. But one appetite had failed,
and that belonged to Honor Smith. She
played with her food and showed herself
perplexed, if not put out.

At the end of the meal, the feasters began
to show that it was time for them to betray a
lurking, lingering resentment of the Squire's
behaviour. They had polished the bones of a
jolly good supper, roast and boiled, whole
sides of bacon, pancakes and apple dumplings,

with plenty of ale to wash them down. They
had nothing to complain of on that score.
Everything had been as handsome as at a
harvest thanksgiving, or a Christmas dinner,
with no call to go to church if not inclined, or
to listen to the parson preaching at them out
of his pulpit. All the same, they did not like
their best thanks and good healths to be
trampled upon  leastways, knocked to the
ground. If Martin Weeks had not been in
his working clothes, his best coat and waistcoat
would have been next to ruined. Ale-stains
were not so easily rubbed out. Some
squires they knew brought to mind the old
saw about beggars and porters. Bottle ways
were not the ways for a squire. Sukey Pass
knew a man as were a totter, and the water
went to the brain and killed him, same as he
had been a baby.

You are a graceless, wooden-headed crew !'
cried Honor Smith, starting to her feet and
speaking loudly and shrilly, among the half-servile
growling and muttering, * to eat a
man's bread and wag your tongues against
him with the morsel still between your teeth
or half-way down your throats ! Can't you
tell for yourselves summit has taken a rise

out of the Squire since the afternoon ? He
ain't himself. Do none of you never fly into a
rage, and fling about the chairs and tables,
when you dunno whether your head or your
heels is uppermost 1'

A man with a second crop of hay like
this here, which he has gotten the whole field
in cocks, and the clouds still holding up, has
little call to go into a rage,' pronounced a
ruined farmer in a tone of oracular condemnation.


How Honor's interference might have been
taken, and whether she might not have
provoked disagreeable reprisals, remained unproven,
for the Squire himself was descried
walking towards his hay-makers. He did
look, in spite of his good clothes and his
soldierly air, disordered and not himself, as
Honor had said.

Good-night,' he said to the people gruffly.
You have had a long day's work, and the
hay is safe. I ought to thank you as well as
pay you. AYill that make amends for anything
I've said or done amiss % Look here ;
surely you need not mind what a fellow from
the ranks without manners, like yourselves,
says or does against the grain. Have you

grown so nice as to weigh words and looks
like the high and mighty folk up yonder V
indicating the house with a jerk of his elbow.

He did not wait for an answer. He drew
Honor Smith aside, and said something which
caused her to stare and redden, though she
was not given to blushing. His words were,
I'll be rid of the plaguy lot presently.
Honor ; and, remember, I'm coming over to
you for comfort. I'm as dead beat as the
hardest worker among you  as I ever was in
India. Make haste home, or I'll reach Hawley
Scrub before you. I've something to say to
you and your father that may stop your voyage
across the seas.'

Lady Termor was looking through the trees
at the hay-field, at the dispersing hay-makers,
anU at a couple standing for a moment apart
from the others. Her familiar spirit, Major
Pollock, was at her elbow. He looked the incarnation
of malice as he showed his teeth ina
grinning snarl. Generally his mistress kept
him well in hand, but he could not resist so
fine a chance of retaliation : ' Strapping gipsy,
in black and red  eh ! my lady ? Curious
how the most refined tastes will wander in
by-ways and hanker after forbidden fruit.

But when it is a case of " like draws to like,"
I should say the game is up. What will you
waorer that the future mistress of Whitehills is
not standing yonder? Exceedingly romantic,
though low all round. A misfortune for the
county  a shocking scandal, but not so very
surprising, after all, if you measure the
merits and antecedents of the master of the
place. Looks like it, from this abominable
forsaking of his company, and flaunting the
rival attraction in our very faces.'

Pollock, I should never speak to you
again,' the enraged old lady turned on him,
if it were not to show you what a fool you
are, and what an idiotic error your slanderous
tongue is leading you into. That girl pulled
Sir William Thwaite out of a pond at the risk
of her own life. He told me so himself. Man,
are you worse than a beast, that you cannot
understand common gratitude 1'

Common gratitude is sometimes an uncommonly
deceitful and dangerous commodity,
particularly when it leads a man and woman
in different grades of life, nowadays at least,
to strike up a friendship. But, of course, I
stand corrected before your ladyship's superior
information.'

Major Pollock bowed with mockery in his
bow, but still with an appearance of submission.

Carriages and horses were being driven and
led backwards and forwards along the sweep
before Sir William came into the drawing-room
again. He made no apology for his
protracted absence, but said, in what sounded
like a general leave-taking, * Ladies and
gentlemen, I hope you have enjoyed yourselves.'
There was a change in his tone,
which a subtle student of human nature
might have detected and puzzled over. The
earnest desire to play his part well, the
anxiety to please in certain quarters, which
had weighed upon him, had disappeared.
He moved more freely  almost with a defiant
swagger, while he spoke rather in grim banter
than in cheerful hope.

Thwaite, what have you been making of
yourself V cried Lady Fermor peevishly, as if
she had a right to call him to order, and to
claim a compensation.

But he did not accord to her the slight
atonement he had made to his working -
people.

Nothing,' he answered laconically,  except
that I found some one to keep me outside.'

He took lier down in silence to her carriage
and put her in, allowing Ludovic Acton to
hand in Iris and Lucy. ' Good-bye, Lady
Termor,' said the host, standing orthodoxly
enough bareheaded on the doorsteps, but
going on to speak with an odd emphasis words
which the occasion hardly seemed to require ;
I am indebted to you for all you have done
for me. Good-bye, Miss Compton.' He
forgot to speak to Lucy.

Mercy on us, man ! you are not taking
farewell of us for ever,' Lady Fermor was
moved to ejaculate ; * we shall see you tomorrow,
if you do not walk over, in the course
of the evening, to inquire whether my old
bones are no worse of your hay-field and of
the late hours last night.'

Excuse me, my lady, I am bespoken elsewhere,'
he said ; but his words were drowned
in the roll of the wheels.

Lady Fermor sat on the same side as Iris.

Something is up,' the old woman mumbled
in her grand-daughter's ear ; * and I shall hear
what you have to say on the subject, Miss
Compton, the moment we get home.'

Iris had no other thought than to tell her
grandmother what had passed ; severe as the

ordeal was, she would go through with it.
Indeed, she was not sure that it could be
quite so bad as what she had undergone
already that day. She had her share of the
courage and steadfastness which make martyrs ;
but she could not speak before Lucy, though
she sympathized with all her might in what
she guessed of the circumstances. Lucy would
even have annihilated herself, or jumped out
and walked home under the last hazily hot
beams which the sun, low in the sky, sent out
over the pastures and ponds of Eastham.

Iris sat and tried to be brave for what lay
before her, while her mind went back with
painful pertinacity, and rehearsed word for
word the scene in which she had figured.
How unreasonable he had been I How presumptuous
! Yes, she must say it again  how
violent ! But there was one thins : he had
never once mentioned Whitehills as an inducement
for her to change her mind. Lady
Thwaite had brought his place and position
prominently forward, and, no doubt, Lady
Termor would dwell upon them, but he had
not done it. He had ranted egotistically
about his misplaced passion, but he had not
shown a trace of mercenariness ; in this respect

he had displayed the spirit of a gentleman.


Iris thought this with a little softening; in
her wholesale condemnation  even as she was
making up her mind that she had seen the
last of Whitehills for a long time  at least
not till Sir William had found another girl
whom he would be more justified in addressing
who did not mind his ignorance or
rusticity, or who balanced against them the
fine old manor-house, the noble trees in the
park there, the position in county society,
with, perhaps, the additional bribe of seasons
in town, opera-boxes, and routs ad infinitum.

Iris did not wait for Lady Fermor to bid
the girl follow her grandmother to her dressing-room,
where Iris had gone as a little child to
receive her deserts whenever she was in disgrace,
and though the disgrace had always
been sore to the child, she had not shirked
the punishment. Her prompt anticipation
of Lady Termor's commands on this occasion
had some effect in calming down her judge.

Lady Fermor threw herself into an armchair,
untied her bonnet-strings, and asked,
with more self-restraint than might have been
expected :

What is the meaning of all this, Iris %
What have you been about ?'

Sir William Thwaite asked me to marry
him, grand mamma, when we went out together,
and of course I had to refuse him,' said Iris
with dry lips, but without hesitation, without
sobbing breath or welling tears.

The information, together with the manner
in which it was conveyed, struck Lady Fermor
dumb. For an instant she sat glaring rather
than staring at Iris, and tapping the arm of
her chair. Lady Fermor could storm against
weakness  she could meet violence with
violence ; but simple firmness which, as she
knew by experience, might prove inflexibility,
tried her to the utmost and well-nigh got the
better of her. She was not a fool, though she
was an arrogant tyrant, shameless where her
evil-doing was concerned, and vain of her
power.

Then all I have to tell you,' she said at
last, speaking nearly as quietly as Iris had
spoken, ' is that you are even sillier and more
stupid and full of conceit than girls in general.
I have done the best I could, and found an
excellent match for you. There is not a
mother far or near that would not be pleased

to establish her daughter at Whitehills ; and
Sir William is a good, honest young fellow,
who might make any right-minded, reasonable
creature happy.'

But, grand mamma ' interposed Iris

in vain.

'Girl,' the old woman put her down, 'if
you knew the world, you would understand
what he is worth. He is fond of you, which
is a deal more than you deserve ; but there is
no accounting for men's tastes. I have tried
to do better for you than I was able to do for
your mother, and you have done what you
could to thwart me. Do you not believe me,
that you are not every man's bargain ? Few
good sort of men, as you described Thwaite
the first time you saw him, would care to seek
you, because you are come of people who were
no more safe than they were smug.'

I don't wish to marry !' stammered Iris.

Hold your tongue !' cried Lady Fermor.
You will suffer for your folly, and you need
not look to me for assistance. You are entirely
dependent on me and your grandfather ;
your precious father managed to run through
his means, and did not leave you a penny.
We have cared for you nearly all your life,

and I must say you are rewarding us well.
You have been ungrateful and disobedient,
and you have disappointed me thoroughly,
though I can't say I ever had much hope of
you. I don't pin my faith to cant and goody-goodness,
which you were so quick to learn
from that fanatic Burrage. But I have not
done with you yet, Miss Compton, only Tom
Mildmay and his wife are waiting for dinner,
and I must go down and keep them in countenance.
Girl, if it had only been to snap my
fingers in their faces, and take my place in the
county before them, for all their puritanical
ways and their poking tricks, since Whitehills
is a better property to 'begin with, and is unencumbered,
while Lambford is pretty considerably
dipped, you might have consented
to please me and make a good fellow happy ;
but you don't deserve the luck you have
thrown away, and he is worth a dozen of
you.'

Iris knew it would only increase her offence
to attempt to answer Lady Fermor further 
to beg her forbearance and forgiveness, to say
how sorry she, Iris, was, for having displeased
and disappointed her grandmother, in her
autocratic disposal of her grand-daughter for

life  instead of going and getting ready for
dinner without an instant's delay. After the
day's tribulations, she was still fain  even
without Lucy's encouraging assurances  to
cling to the impression that she had got off
more easily than she could have dared to look
for, that Lady Fermor would be better than
her word, and would have done with her
granddaughters from that nio;ht, so far as Sir
William Thwaite's egregious blunder was concerned.


Iris could not fathom Lady Fermor's
domineering determination of purpose, and
indomitable strength of will, when she had an
object to gain. The girl could not guess how
little her grandmother cared for one girlish
refusal, or a dozen girlish refusals, if she could
pat the gentleman on the back and coax him
to come on again, and yet again, until, by
mingled wearing ins stance and harsh persecution,
she might sap the foundations of conscience
and inclination, and force the rebel to
yield.

VOL. II. 25

ONE WAS FAR AWAY, AND ONE WAS NEAR.'

The sunset yet made red bars above the full
green of Hawley Scrub, when Sir William kept
his appointment with Honor Smith.

Abe was from home, only Honor had sat up
for a little time by the dilapidated and dirty
lattice window. The fire was out in the hot
weather, and the father and daughter would
have to content themselves with a cold supper.

The absence of any glow from the hearth
served to increase the cheerlessness of the
neglected house-place. But the coo of the
cutlet-dove came in from the scrub, and some
woodruffe which Honor was drying  not without
a likelihood of its being left to rot on the
window-sill, filled the place with an odour
which, in its sweet fragrance, has always a
scent of decay. It seems to belong more to
old memories, dead hopes, and graves with the

paths to them no longer trodden by lingering
feet, than to the living fragrance of budding
desires and happy expectations.

Honor was weary with a day's work as
foreign to her as if she had been a lady,
though she was strong T\'ith the strength of a
fine physique and an open-air life. She was a
picturesque but not a home-like figure, as
she sat there in the gathering dusk with her
brown fingers interlaced and her head, still
covered by the red handkerchief which had
shaded it from the sun, thrown back against
the window-frame, catching the last rays of
light. She was in a quandary, as she would
have said.

Whatever does he want here ?' she asked
herself, bewildered ; ' he is not the man to
come on a hang-dog errand, and I am not the
woman to whom he would come in that case.
"Whatever else I've been, I've been true to
poor Hughie. How long it seems since I seed
him last, lying a-dying in quad at Birkett !
I'm afraid I'm forgetting the very lines of his
comely young face. But no man as knows
me would liken me to a light lass, any more
than he would liken the most delicate lady in
the land. What is there between him and

252

Miss Compton ? What can there be save his
lands and the " Sir" before his name % and she
ain't the one to sell herself, not if I know her.
If anyone said I done it, I would be rare mad.
Father said Squire were a kind of gentleman
in his way  all the same, Sir William was
reared a working man, and it do come out in
him and pulls him down to his natural level.
Some rises above it, sure and certain, like
Uncle Sam ; but then they raise themselves by
their own struggles, and by slow degrees,
learning as they go, and ain't tossed up as
with a pitchfork and left to come to grief,
like a larch tree in a hothouse, or a living
hare in a house-place, or a swallow in a

cage.'

Sir William walked past the window as she
spoke, and entered by the open door without
the ceremony of knocking. His first actions
were to toss his hat on the table, and to pull
off his coat and fling it over the back of a
chair. His first words were :

'There, I'm rid of them, like some other
fine things that were not for me, and were not
all gold though they glittered.'

He stretched out his arms in his shirt-sleeves,
and then throwing himself down in a

chair, rested them on the table before him,
and leant his head upon his hands.

Does aught ail you, Sir William V she
asked with genuine anxiety ; ' there is always
gin or rum in the house. I know you don't
taste drink as a rule, but when you are overdone
and would be the better for a glass,
wouldn't you have it ? Just say the word.'

'No,' he said, looking up with a haggard
face, ' don't ask me. Do you know, Honor,
the last little straw between me and drowning
in the lowest depths of sin and misery is that
I forswore drink, at the word of a dying
woman. But I'm not ill or in trouble  at
least, I'm going to turn over a new leaf, and
be all right after to-night. I am glad your
father is out.'

Why so, sir X inquired Honor, a little
coldly.

Don't " sir' me,' he forbade her hastily.
*But how can that be, when you are Sir

William, and our squire and master V she
demanded with a startled laugh.
 * I ain't Sir William to you  anyhow I
don't want to be so any more, and if I continue
your master, it is only on the understanding
that you be my mistress. Honor, I'm glad

your father is out, because I want to tell you
all about myself  a poor subject lie broke off
with a bitter laugh.

If you are in a story-telling humour, I
ain't the one to baulk it,' said Honor, dying
to hear what he had got to tell.

He started at once, as if eager to begin,
describing his early days and the shifts his
sister Jen had made to provide for their needs
details very patent to Honor's comprehension.
He went on to his youthful outbreaks,
not extenuating or omitting a single
particular of his enlisting, his successful career
as a soldier in India, marred by his habits of
dissipation and wild recklessness, and his last
outrage against military discipline till he lay
in the cell awaiting the sentence of the lash.

Oh ! poor lad, poor lad ! This was worse
even than my Hughie's fate,' cried Honor,
moved to the depths of her soul by what she
could so well understand. Forgetting the
difference of rank she put her hand on his
shoulder and began to stroke his arm.

He looked up at her, with his face wan from
the strain of the last twenty-four hours, and
the agony of the associations he had been
recalling.

So you pity me, Honor, after you have
heard nigh-hand the worst, for my sister Jen
died and then her husband hanged himself.
You ain't shocked past looking on me as a
fellow-creature.'

Shocked ! what should I be shocked at ? I
could cry my eyes out for you, if that would
do you any good.'

I know,' he said softly ; ' and you are the
woman for me, the woman who knows all, and
yet does not cast me off, and treat me as dirt
beneath her feet.'

Who cast you off, Sir William ?' Honor
inquired point-blank, without any of the
restraining delicacy that might have shut her
mouth, had she been a woman of a different
temper and rearing.

Never mind,' he said, flushing hotly ; * and.
didn't I tell you not to call me " Sir William'"
any more ? say, " Will Thwaite, I will marry
you, and help you to bear your burden."
We'll go our own way and be happy in our
own fashion. We'll cast care to the winds
and not waste a thought on our betters, or
suffer them to lay a little finger on our lot.'

He spoke excitedly and a little wildly,
though he had not been drinking.

She sat and stared at him, not able to
believe her ears, at this instantaneous and
wonderful solution of the riddle she had been
trying to read.

Are you in earnest ?' she asked breathlessly.

' In earnest ! "What do you take me for ?
I have spoken my whole mind  made a clean
breast of it for the first time these many
months, and, by George ! I feel as if I could
breathe freely and be a man again, and nota
mountebank and puppet. Will you not
make my freedom and happiness complete
by coming to me, Honor, and letting me know
I've a real friend  one that knows me  all
about me, and looks over all that's sorely
amiss in me, all I lack, and all I've done
wrong, and cares for me in spite of all ?'

He spoke with eager passion as if he had no
other desire ; and it was true that making a
clean breast of it, as he called it, had been
an immense relief to him. For he had been a
man naturally open as the day, on whom the
unaccustomed reticence of the last period of
his life, the concealment and shamming, ashe
had been tempted to call them, had hung
with the dead-weight of iron fetters. He
was also a man who, as a matter of temperament,

craved sympathy ; to whom a woman's
immeasurable tenderness had once been so
familiar that he had lived surrounded by it,
without thinking of it, but, once lost, it was
for ever missed.

She sat dazzled. What! could she be the
mistress of Whitehills at a word ? But it was
not of the grand house, and servants at her
call, of soft living, fine clothes, and being a
titled lady that she thought first and most.
The attractions which would have been all-powerful
with most poor girls did not lay hold
of her to any great extent. It was to be the
mistress, through him who was their master
the man that thus addressed her  of the
lands and the woods where she had ranged
on sufferance or in secret, of the wild creatures"
that had been her solace and her prey ; to
come and go when she liked and how she
liked ; to defy the upper-keepers and have her
father do the same  these were the ideas
which took possession of her.

It was on second thoughts that she considered
she would be regarded with mingled
consternation, admiration, and lively envy
by everybody she knew  the colony at the
quarries, her mother's people with whom she

had kept company, and the field-workers who
had so lately held her at arms-length.

Neither was the man himself distasteful to
her. She had the liking for him that many
persons  women especially  entertain for
those they happen to succour, to the length of
rescuing him from a possible death.

His tale had filled her with a tumult of
fellow-feeling and pity, for just so had the
poor lad to whom her heart had been given
in early girlhood been set upon, driven to
stand at bay, and then forced to pay the
penalty to the utmost tittle of the law. And
while she had been saying to herself, within
the hour, that Hughie Guild's lineaments
were waxing dim in a memory which had
long been faithful to him, the comely features
of another, the manly figure on which she set
such store, the soldierly carriage  reminding
her of the great man of her family, Uncle Sam 
the waves of chestnut hair, the ruddy colour,
the smile she could call forth, which was able
to brighten indescribably what had perplexed
her in the gravity, almost sombreness, of Sir
William Thwaite's face, were all now taking
her fancy and knocking at her heart.

Her indignant spirit, which from the date

of Hughie Guild's cruel death had set
womanly rules and household restraints at
defiance, was in sympathy with his spirit
when he threatened to turn upon the class
into which he had been grafted and shake off
its yoke. Her nature, run wild, was yet full
of esprit che corps and class prejudices, which
disposed her to war with the upper ranks
generally, while her lawlessness also inclined
her to strive with her very fellows, nay, with
herself and him when the time came.

It would be the best game she had ever
played for her and ' Will Thwaite' to set up
Liberty Hall at Whitehills. The temptation
to answer ' Yes' to Sir William's question was
strong, and growing stronger every instant
while she hesitated. But to Honor Smith's
credit she made a stand. ' What about Miss
Compton V she said suspiciously, watching
him closely. ' This bent in keeping with
your walking about the hatfield your two
selves, and speaking to me, like you were the
friends and sweethearts as folk would have it
you were. I shan't speak another word till
you tell me the right-down truth about Miss
Compton. Her ain't saucy, nor do she take
up poor folk like playthings or babies, to

pass away the time and be taught by her
wisdom, as if hard times weren't a mighty
sight powerfully teachers than fine ladies and
rectors' wives and daughters. But hers real
good, and were rare kind to me long ago ; and
though all that soon came to an end, it were
none of her fault. She's a deal nearer heaven,
I guess, than the likes of me, or maybe you
either. Yet if you have been sweet upon her,
and she have but looked on you to listen to
you  though knowing summit of you both,
I'm free to confess,' owned Honor candidly, ' I
do not see as how that could be  still, if them
words you have spoken ain't no more than the
outcome of some quarrel between you two, I
tell you, lad, I don't want to listen to a fellow
mad with rage and jealousy. I shan't come
between you. Go and make it up with the
fine young lady, and let me be. I'll forget
your words before you're out of the door.
I'm none so set on a man, or on being Lady
Thwaite,' she said, with a toss of her head,
that I should bear them in mind and plague
you for your hasty folly.'

You're all out, Honor,' he answered, with
a loud laugh, ' except in not being able to see
how metal and clay could mix together. Miss

Compton would no more quarrel with me than
she would quarrel with the servant at the
back of her chair ;' he ground his teeth as he
made the illustration. ' Her single word with
him would be to dismiss him from her
presence and forbid him ever to enter it again.
So you see, though she may be good  I would
be lying like a trooper if I pretended she were
not good  she ain't good to me. I'll never
speak to her again while we live. I tell you
I have done with the whole small fry of ladies
and gentlemen in which she was the single
creature worth a sigh. What is the use of a
man's succeeding to land and money if he
cannot please himself? I have found out that
at last, and if you and Abe won't have me,
Honor, I don't know what is to become of me.
Perhaps, as nobody wants me, I had better put
a bullet through my head, and have done with
it all, at once.'

Not so fast as that. Will ; and who says as
nobody wants you ? I want you, and I'll do
my best to make up to you, and be a goodwife,
as I would have been to poor Hughie.
You have heard of Hughie Guild ? I bent a
bit ashamed of Hughie, not at this moment,
when I seems to be giving up the last thought

of him she went on, with a flash of her eyes
and a swell of her fine throat. ' I ain't going
to hide what him and me were to each other,
when we walked out on the long summer
nights, and met for a word in the frosty winter
mornings, and my heart was tender and trusty,
like his'n. Oh ! I doubt I was better worth
looking at, and speaking to both, in them far-off
days than I am now,' she exclaimed wistfully,
with a glance at the black gown she still
wore for Hughie, and a twitch at one of the
ends of the red handkerchief Then she
struck a chord in perfect harmony with his
mood, ' I don't want to have secrets from you
You're right there,' he said with emphasis.
Secrets be hanged ! We've done with them
for ever, and there shan't stand one between
you and me.' He clasped her hands, and
drew her unresisting towards him. ' I tell
you, Honor, I thought I should have died, or
burst out cursing, and shouting aloud my
story, with an adder's nest of secrets in my
breast stinging night and day. Now it will go
hard with us, my lass, if we can't be enough
for ourselves, and have a jolly good time while
it lasts. We're young, and strong, and have a
liking for each other. There's plenty of life

before us, and surely it holds something worth
taking for us still. Let your Hughie sleep 
he's the best off after all ; I'll not rake him up,
and you'll not cast Nhilpoor in my teeth,
though you have heard all about it. We're
quits and we're equals ; only, I take it, you are
made of kinder and truer stuff than I. A
woman that ain't bad, or that ain't akin to the
angels  when her very goodness robs her of
earthly feelings, has more heart than a man
for the most part. I know you've been a trifle
wild on moonlight nights and misty mornings
with the snares, ay, and the guns, among my
birds and hares, mine  do you hear. Honor ?
I could have you up before the justices, before
Mr. Hollies, who called himself my friend the
other night. You'll have to be mortal kind
and give me all my own way to keep me from
taking the law on you. And what about the
wild ducks that flew over from Mistley Down %
Have you been seeking their eggs lately, or
are the nests flown ? They are all yours now,
every bird and beast, bush and furrow. You
and your father will have to keep) my preserves,
in good faith, when neither him nor you will
ever need to poach on them or any other again.'
It is handsome in you to put it in that

way,' said Honor frankly. Then she added,
after a moment's reflection, with an echo both
of humour and sadness in her tone : ' But I
doubt half the fun will be gone.'

Old Abe strayed in to be dumfounded by
the most astounding tale that ever shook the
nerve of keeper or squatter. The Squire, Sir
William, was going to marry straight away,
without either compunction, commotion, or
concealment, the daughter of his servant, the
least reputable of his servants, the under-keeper,
suspected of being in league with
the poachers. And his strapping randy of a
daughter, the bride elect, who was all but the
widow of a young poacher that had died in
gaol, had been an active sharer in her father's
misdeeds.

It ain't to be believed,' cried Abe, though
the incredible tale was to the marvellous exaltation
of himself and his family. * It can't be ;
who ever heard tell of such a marriage V

Why, it was the very marriage made by
my great-grandfather, Abe, or I should not
have been here,' said Sir William, laughing.

No, no ; he weren't the head of the house
or like to be, only one of a litter of young
puppies. And the keeper as he connected his-self

with continued Abe modestly, * was the
head-keeper on the estate, like Waterpark, a
man of substance in his line, sought after and
employed by other families, even after his
daughter had got him into disgrace with the
Thwaites. Old people did say he had got no
other daughters, and that her that would bea
lady had gone to school with the bailiff's
daughter, was the beauty of them parts,
washed her face in butter-milk and saved her
complexion like the finest lady of them all.
Now, my Hon is as brown as a gipsy, is no
scholar, and knows more of guns and game-bags,
begging your honour's pardon, than of
needles and pins.'

But if I prefer a brown gipsy and a brave
woman that could save a man's life at a pinch
not that it was worth the perilling her own
for  ain't it my own look-out, old crusty-boots
?' argued Sir William, with a rough
good-humour.

You'll take your own way,' said Abe resignedly,
'but as an honest man I'm bound
to say I can't see that Hon here, though she
bent a bad daughter to me, is fit to be a
grand lady. She ain't the cut of one, and
VOL. II. 26

ill will come of such flying in the face of
Providence. It was clean different that the
Squire should befriend us because her picked
he out of the water  she done it and no
mistake  and he were welcome to come over
'and have a pipe, if not a glass, and a talk
any night he pleased. Nobody could say
nought again it ; that were no more than
nat oral. But t'other ain't nat'ral. A most
unlikely, unsuitable marriage is summit
serious, and will lead to no end of rows, and
bring the whole county-side down on us. I'm
getting an old man  too old to have both
gentle and simple down upon me, or to change
my ways,' sighed Abe, drawing out an old flat
snuff-box, taking snuff and sneezing a further
remonstrance.

Who's asking you to change your ways ?
and I ain't going to be a grand lady, you
stupid, grumpy old father!' cried Honor, who
had taken and kept the upper hand of her
father ever since her two brothers left the
country. * It is Will Thwaite as is going to
be a common man again, and suit himself to
the rest of us. Didn't I say the very first
night we set eyes on him, that it were a fine
thing  all the finer that it were as new as the

first paring of the ramon, to have a squire as
were one of ourselves ?'

But I said lie weren't none of ourselves,
below the skin, and were never like to be,'
muttered Abe.

'And it is just because I am head of the
house that I can do as I like, and marry
whom I will  Honor if she will have me,
tomorrow, or as soon as the banns can be put
up. There's nought to wait for. We aren't
going to have a flare-up like  like some I've
seen. We needn't call together a crowd of
fools and flunkeys to pity and laugh at us,
though we'll do the thing in open day ; we
ain't ashamed of ourselves neither. You
don't want to wait for fine clothes, do you,
Honor, when I like you best as you sit
there ?'

'That's a pretty compliment,' pronounced
Honor impartially, ' but you might have spared
it, or kept it for another time. Will. I don't
care a straw for fine clothes. More than that,
father and I ain't able to buy them. More
than that again, I wouldn't take a gift of a
gown from you now, not though you went
down on your bended knees, or swore never to
see me more, if so be I refused your gifts.

262

As father says, it were different when we were

your servants to command, and you micfht

spin down half-a-crown or a guinea for me, as

your purse was full and your temper generous,

in exchange for mv washing your clothes or

blacking your boots. But not a shilling of

yours will I touch now  not till it is your

right to give, and mine to take, Sir William

Thwaite. That's settled between us: you ain't

to come swaggering here and emptying your

purse into my lap  not that I say you'd care

to do it  mind, mc and father knows you're a

better gentleman than that comes to, a deal

more of a gentleman than lots as have been

brought up to the trade. I say. Will,' Honor

resumed suddenly, after a moment's pause,

with a doubtful, searching look in her orreat

rev eves, ' I'm most afeared of that gentiles
./  ' o

man as is in you  wherever you got it, deep
down, part of yourself, till death let it out 
that it won't mate proper with the wild, rude
woman, granting I've kept myself honest for
Hughie's sake, that is in me. But ain't it a
mercy,' changing her tone, with equal abruptness,
to a crow of congratulation this time,
that you have neither father nor mother nor
nobody to make a stir and sunder us ? You're

your own master, though you are the Squire,
as if you were one of our boys, Ted or young
Abe, as always went in for pleasing themselves,
when they were at home

*Ay; you'll all please yourselves,' said old
Abe, throwing off the responsibility, as he was
wont to do, and becoming naturally more and
more reconciled to the honour that had come
to him, in proportion as he recovered from his
stunned incredulity ; * you'll please yourselves
and take the consequences, which will be a
mighty promotion for Honor. I make bold
to hope, likewise, it will be the keeping of
this here tumble-down cottage and my place,
whatever stories Waterpark tells again me, till
my death, without my having to quit the old
country.'

You'll get your choice, Abe,' announced
Sir William, with reckless prodigality ; ' your
old quarters here, or the best quarters with us
at Whitehills.'

Father will stay here,' said Honor decisively.
' He would not ever be at home out
of this hole, but I'll come and see him, and
he'll come and see me, whenever we weary for
each other's faces ; shan't we, daddy V

Then, since it's all fixed, I'll go home,' said

Sir William, getting up and stretching himself
again. ' I'll be here tomorrow, of course, but
to-night Tm dizzy like  dizzy with freedom
from care, and content. Honor. I feel as if I
had been standing on my head for half a year,
but that will come right with a night's sleep :
everything will come right when I'm back in
the part I'm fit for, that I know how to play
as well as my neighbours  nobody can cast
scorn upon me then.'

Honor helped him on with his coat, nay,
she convoyed him half the way back to White-hills
in the summer dusk, laughing at his
questioning her whether she were not tired,
scouting at the idea of her not liking to be
out alone in the late twilight  not offending
against the convenances, where there were none
to be set at nought.

AN INTERVIEW.

Sir William hall to learn that, practically
alone in the world as he was, he could not be
suffered to please himself without somebody's
interfering to prevent his ruin.

The first sign of the interference was to be
detected in Lady Thwaite's driving over to
Lambford in hot haste, within three days of
the Whitehills hay-making, and begging to
see Lady Fermor alone before luncheon, when
there was security against other visitors.

Lady Thwaite need not have said ' alone '
in reference to Iris, who had not been accustomed
to spend her mornings with her grandmother.
But the Mildmays had stayed two
days longer than had been anticipated, to suit
their own convenience. Lady Termor did not
hesitate to remark, and Lady Thwaite was not
sure that they were gone at last, when she

sent in her card with a corner turned down,
and a pencilled request to see Lady Fermor in
her dressing-room.

Show her up,' had been the immediate rejoinder.
* What's in the wind now V Then
she added, just out of the servant's hearing :
'At least, I'll find out what has become of my
sulking gentleman these last two days.'

Lady Fermor's dressing-room was the cosiest
room in Lambford, but it was also the dullest,
with a deadly dulness to a stranger. It did
not afford the slightest evidence that its
mistress had a single taste or interest beyond
her personal concerns and what went on in
her own mind. There were no little groups
of family miniatures or photographs above the
chimney-piece, no washed-out, characteristic
children's heads reappearing in sketches in
crayons of self-conscious boys and girls, and
ending in portraits, in water-colours or oils,
of mature men and women  though Lady
Fermor had been twice married, and was a
grandmother with half-a-dozen grandchildren,
in descent from her first husband, in addition
to Iris Compton, the grand-daughter of the
second. There were no little trophies of her
own or of the members of her families' residence

in foreign places, in stone, or bronze,
or ivory, woodwork or basketwork, Indian
embroidery or grass cloth, ending in the merest
trifles of knickknacks formed out of twisted
vine-twigs and plaited palm-leaves, and carved
juniper-root. There were no books and no
work. Lady Fermor read the newspapers, but
nothing else, and she never worked. She sat
with her shrivelled, bony hands in her lap, and
went over her own thoughts, often busying
herself with the scenes and people of the past.
One might have thought the process in this
case would hardly have been pleasant. But,
pleasant or unpleasant, Lady Fermor was equal
to it. She preferred her own identity to that
of any other person, and reviewed the events
of her earlier life without shrinking, simply
because they had belonged to her life, and so
had always possessed keen relish of some kind
for her.

There was not a portrait of Lord Fermor in
the room, but there were several engravings
from pictures of his favourite horses to enliven
his wife's sanctum ; and the ink-bottle which
she used for the business sittings she still
made, at the heavy old writing-table, was composed
of one of the hoofs of the Lambford

horse which had been the most distinguished
of the season at Newmarket.

Summer and winter a brisk fire burned in
Lady Fermor's dressing-room, the atmosphere
of which was heavily laden with old Jockey
Club scent, while there was no replenishment
of oxygen from the closed windows. This
little fact alone would have made a visit to
its mistress in her den, on a sultry August
morning, a trial to any person full of modern
theories of health, and with fresh-air proclivities.
But in addition, Lady Fermor indulged
in a habit of having every visitor she
entertained shown to the warmest corner. It
might have been an unconscious impulse of
her old hospitality, as that was now the
physical good she craved most ; or it might
have been a plan to shorten and prevent visits
at hours and in a region which she reserved
for herself. Yet she had no occupation to be
disturbed, and even no practices to be hidden,
unless that she wore the worst shawls and
lowliest caps, when nobody  not even Fermor
or Pollock  could see them.

What's in the wind. Lady Thwaite V repeated
Lady Fermor, without the smallest
scruple, to the visitor, after the two ha(j

greeted each other, and the hostess had seen
Lady Thwaite established in close proximity
to the glowing embers in the grate.

Lady Thwaite did not seem to notice the
fire, or the thunderstorm, which had come on
at last, though it had only partially discharged
its artillery, leaving the air close and oppressive.
But it was no wonder that her fair complexion
looked heated almost to drowsiness.
She was come on a trying errand. She had
debated with herself, over and over again, in
driving along whether she could not throw up
the self-imposed commission and turn back.

It is all the fault of this wicked old woman
and that silly child Iris. Why should I put
myself about to break the miserable catastrophe
to Lady Fermor % She would not let him
alone; she would take him away from his
natural friends and protectors. If he had
been left to my guidance  but, no; honestly
I do not think I could have made anything of
a man who has ended like this ; who has
deceived us all, down to Mr. Mills, as Sir
William has done; whose taste for low life
has proved so pronounced and hopeless. But
it is very hard on me, coming forward as I
did, acting as the lady of the house  poor,

dear old house!  at that detestable hay-making,
which was all Lady Fermor s doing.
I wish with all my heart I had gone abroad at
once, after poor Sir John died, and remained
away till I had some grounds to go on, with
regard to the new man

But wishes were even more unavailing for
the past than for the future. Here was Lady
Thwaite, sitting all but suffocated in Lady
Fermor's dressing-room. She had taken upon
herself a thankless task. She was indignantly
conscious of her own innocence, and yet she
dreaded to tell the sinner the result of her
machinations.

Lady Fermor, on the contrary, was coolly
cracking her finger-joints, and asking what
was in the wind. The next moment she behaved
still more abominably. Having, unfortunately,
established a ' way ' of saying
with impunity what nobody else would have
said, she proceeded to remark  with a most
objectionable sardonic flavour in her objectionable
jocularity, as if the explanation suggested
were far removed from the list of
possible events :

You ain't going to be married again Lady
Thwaite ?'

Good heavens, no 1' cried poor Lady
Thwaite, provoked out of her usual assured
composure and seasoned agreeability. ' Have
you forgotten that Sir John is not yet a year

dead % Everybody is not so ' she stopped

in time.

So fond of a second husband as I am
The terrible old woman took up the sentence
without hesitation, and with a chuckle. ' But
you have only to try ; very likely you will
find, like me, that your second bargain is a
great improvement on the first. If Fermor
were to slip away now, who knows but I might
venture on a third ? Only I am too stiff to be
troubled seeking another trousseau.'

To do Lady Thwaite justice she shuddered.
She did not even feel inclined, though she had
dared, to retort with the taunt that it might
not be necessary to wait for Lord Fermor s
slipping away ; Lady Fermor had not always
stayed for that preliminary, or stood out for a
trousseau.

Lady Thwaite could have her revenge in
another fashion. But she was a practical
woman, and revenge would not compensate
for the awkward position in which she found
herself, with the substantial losses it involved.

If anything could yet be tried  she did not
believe it would be of any avail  still, everything
ought to be tried to arrest such a
calamity.

Lady Thwaite, being fallible, did permit
herself to say coldly :

The same example would scarcely suit us
all,' while she still meant to make common
cause with Lady Fermor, so far as inducing
the intrepid, hardened old offender to enter
the lists and take the bull by the horns. * But
you are not altogether wrong,' began the
bringer of bad tidings. * It is a marriage I
am come to announce  a dreadful marriage,
which calls for no congratulations.'

Lady Fermor sat up in her chair with a
little start ; it might have been the tremor of
age, however, for her hands remained perfectly
still, and she said nothing.

'Do you remember a woman in the hay-field
the other day V proceeded Lady Thwaite
falteringly.

Who was the woman ?' demanded Lady
Fermor, with as much sharpness as if she had
been an adverse counsel cross-examining a
shrinking witness.

A woman, not like the others, rather fine-looking,

in a coarse, masculine style. I think
she wore a black gown and a red handkerchief
shading her head.'

Yes r snapped Lady Fermor ; * go on.'

Do you remember Sir William taking notice
of her, and talking to her more than once %
I think people observed it, though he did
nothing very much out of the way.'

Well r

Their banns are given in to be published
next Sunday,' said Lady Thwaite, driven by
her companion's manner to make haste and tell
her tale in its naked simplicity.

You are mad. Lady Thwaite  stark, staring
mad !' cried Lady Fermor, rising to her
feet, grasping the arms of her chair, while
a thin, pallid red came into her cadaverous
face.

I almost wish I were, for the moment,' said
Lady Thwaite, with a groan. ' But it is too
true, too disgracefully, ruinously true.'

And have you done nothing ?' Lady
Fermor broke out furiously, instinctively
seeking the relief which a scapegoat affords.
'Have you stood by and seen this scandal,
this outrage against common-sense and o-ood
feeling, and the propriety you are all so fond

of talking about, take place before your very-eyes
V

What could 1 do ?' Lady Thwaite remonstrated.
* T am only the man's distant cousin
by marriage. I never heard what was going
to happen till late last night ; it came upon
me like a thunderbolt  I had been led to expect
something so very different. But I was
in time to telegraph to Mr. Miles, and he was
down before breakfast this morning.'

And what does Miles say V

Not much,' said Lady Thwaite, with an
expressive shrug. She was beginning to recover
a portion of her equanimity so as to
object to being browbeaten. She felt bound
to treat the subject with more philosophic
resignation than she had yet shown  nay,
with a shade of the banter for which she was
famous. * He owned that he was dreadfully
disappointed, and that the ill-advised step
would make a complete wreck of his client's
fortunes. All the same, I think Mr. Miles
would have liked to have sworn at me for
bringing him down, when the man was of age
and his own master  an ignorant, untrained
fellow, who could not be expected to stand
opposition, even in his own interest, or to

follow rational argument, whom contradiction
would only make worse. There was nothing
to be done, any tyro might have seen that.
After the mess was made and so far advanced,
where was the use of bringing an unfortunate
lawyer or anybody else down from town, to
render the business more hopeless, if that were
possible ? Sir "William had not sent for him
to draw out the settlements. I never saw
Mr. Miles so cross, and nearly rude, though
we are too old friends to count plain-speaking
rudeness. He did see Sir William, however ;
but as Mr. Miles left for London by the next
train, without coming back to me, I conclude
nothing can be done.'

You're all as mad as Sir William cried
Lady Fermor, without softening her opinion.
The fellow ought to be taken away, and the
woman shut up ;' speaking as if the primitive
customs of centuries ago were still in full
force, as if the power which old aristocrats
had once wielded unscrupulously enough on
occasions, had never departed from their hands.
But I'll go to him ; I'll let him hear a piece of
my mind

The resolution was what Lady Thwaite had
VOL. II. 27

half hoped for as a last resource. But when
it came to the point, while she entertained
small expectation of the efforts producing even
the little delay which might yet be of the
greatest moment in arresting an irretrievable
misfortune, she had qualms at sending the
aged woman  let her be ever so much to
blame  alone into the breach on this breathless
summer day.

Lady Thwaite could not accompany Lady
Fermor. Indeed, the younger woman would
not on any account have attended the elder
on the expedition to which Lady Thwaite had
nevertheless spurred on Lady Fermor. After
all, Sir William Thwaite, though he was Sir
John's heir, and Sir John's widow had intended
him to continue to be the purveyor of
many social advantages to her, was happily
no relation of hers, but a remote and disowned
kinsman of her late husband. It was
only an irregular skirmishes in the campaign
of life, an old alien from social laws, a woman
who had never cared anything for public
opinion, who could go to Sir William, and
either in utter disregard of what had been
said, or in unblushing reference to it and to
what had really taken place between him and

Iris Compton, seek to stop his degrading,
desperate marriage.

I am afraid it will be too much for you,
Lady Fermor,' Lady Thwaite managed to say,
as Lady Fermor was ringing for her maid ;
try and think over it. At least, let Shames
go with you. I am sure you do not know
what a trying day it is. We shall have another
storm immediately, and you may be
caught in the rain, with the damp so bad for
your rheumatic gout. Sir John had to avoid
it carefully, and  oh dear ! I believe you
have not taken your luncheon,' lamented Lady
Thwaite, fanning her hot face.

She began to yield to a painful conviction
that if anything happened suddenly to Lady
Fermor in consequence of these unusual
exertions and deprivations, the most lenient
coroner's inquest in the country might feel
justified in requesting Lady Thwaite's attendance,
and in seizing the opportunity of the
evidence she would be compelled to give, to
censure her for her inhumanity.

Am I to sit here and eat a chop while a
poor deluded young devil  excuse me, Lady
Thwaite, but you ain't averse to plain 



ing  a friend of my own, is on the brink of a
precipice V Lady Fermor asked scornfully.
That is not what I call friendship, and I have
had a man-friend or two in my day. It seems
Soames thinks she may sit and guzzle, whatever
is up ; but I'll teach the idiot better
manners than to keep me waiting,' ringing
the bell at her elbow violently a second time
in rapid succession.

Soames answered in haste, and her mistress,
with no more than a promise to give it to
Soames hot and strong in some moment of
leisure, despatched the maid to collect wraps,
and to send another servant to order the
carriage.

It seems all so unreal and shocking,' said
Lady Thwaite, feeling helpless for once in her
life. Yet she was not averse to do more
talking in the presence of the fiery zeal which
could still blaze up in the shrunken veins of
the woman of fourscore  the woman of another,
more turbulent generation. * Of course
it is in his blood,' repeated Lady Thwaite, not
without a recollection of her objection to Iris
Compton for the taint in her blood, 'and I
have heard that the woman pulled him out of
some ditch and saved his life. What was a

great hulking fellow like him doing, dropping
after the fashion of a stone into a pool of
standing water, and suffering; himself to be
rescued by a woman  unless he did it on
purpose  what was he good for if he could
not take care of himself ? Certainly, if he is
not useful, he cannot be called ornamental.
But if it had been some neat, pretty girl 
dressmaker's assistant, or sewing-maid, or
head-waitress in a restaurant, whose smartness
and mock jewellery a man of low origin on
the whole, and no education to speak of,
might have mistaken for the real things, I
could have understood it better ; for such
esclandres, however deplorable, do happen,
now and then, among people one knows. Buta
masculine creature such as this woman
Smith is, I am told, as bad as a gipsy, who
consorts with poachers  indeed, she was to
have married a wretched young fellow who
died in gaol  only the lowest, most depraved
instincts, I am afraid, could have exposed a
man to danger from such a quarter. Her
father has been suspected of underhand dealings
with poachers and with game-shops in
Birkett and Cavesham ; I know her brothers
went all wrong years ago.'

How do you know ?' inquired Lady Fermor
ungraciously.

Oh, I used to hear everything about our
people when I was at Whitehills. Most unfortunately
it was a hobby of poor Sir John's,
after his mind had begun to fail a little, that
Waterpark, the head-keeper, and a capable,
trustworthy man, but comparatively a newcomer,
trumped up stories and bore a grudge
against Smith, who had lived all his life on
the estate, whom Sir John remembered from
a boy. So he was allowed to remain in a
cottage like an Irish hovel at Hawley Scrub.
The girl has grown up there, and ranged in
the preserves, and over the downs, at all
hours, wearing a black gown, and some yellow
or red rag of a handkerchief round her throat
or over her head. I think it must be an
affectation of a gipsy costume, or in rude
coquetry, for she is not bad-looking in that
style. They say that she can not only fire a
gun and throw a line, but swallow a glass of
spirits undiluted without a cough, and swear
an oath like a man. It is too horrible to
think of her as Lady Thwaite,' protested the
prospective dowager.

In fact, she was so overcome between the

idea and the heat of the room that she took
up a bottle of the old Jockey Club scent, and
began to pour it over her handkerchief, though
she hated the perfume. All would not do to
put down the image of Iris Compton in her
fair, slender, delicate-minded, almost austere
maidenliness, as it rose up in broad contrast
before the speaker's mind.

You might have spared yourself the horror
of thinking it all over again, and your breath
the pain of telling it to me,' said Lady Fermor
coolly ; ' I know all about the woman. My
unworldly saint and dutiful innocent of a
grand-daughter picked up an acquaintance
with this Honor Smith which I forbade years
ago. But I'll put you right on one point,
Lady Thwaite. Men who are men, like
Thwaite, ain't always caught by soft skins,
dainty tongues, and a few trumpery accomplishments.
They sometimes look for bone
and sinew, ay, and courage and daring in the
women they care for, as well as in the horses
they squander their means and their lives on.
What pretty nursemaid or sewing-girl could
have had the pluck and strength to help to
drag a drowning man of Thwaite's weight out
of a bottomless pit of mud, like some of the

ponds here ? All the same, he is raving mad,
and will be a lost man, if he go on to reward
me and punish a doll of a young lady, as he
proposes to do. Here is Soames with my
shawls ; I must not keep you longer, Lady
Thwaite.'

When Lady Thwaite was gone, as Lady
Fermor was slowly descending the stairs to
depart on her mission, she encountered her
grand-daughter coming up. Iris had been
away in other regions all the morning. She
had not been aware of Lady Thwaite's visitor
heard the most distant sough of her news,
though the hall and kitchen, which had come
into contact with Lady Thwaite's groom, were
already ringing with the tidings. Iris had not
only her hands but her arms full of ferns, which
she had been gathering in the park, and was
intending to use according to some incontrovertible
art formula. She was singing softly
to herself an old English song :

Be she fairer than the day,

Or the dewy meads in May,
If she be not fair to me,

What care I how fair she be V

Grandmamma,' she exclaimed, * going out
just now ! Do you not wish me to accompany

you ? Do you know there is a storm
brewing ? I came in because the sky looked
quite lurid.'

Get out of my way, Iris,' said Lady Fer-mor
savagely ; * and if I find what I expect 
a man worth a dozen of you doomed to be
ruined body and soul, made dead to the world
henceforth, by your virtuous, godly doing  I
warn you, girl, to keep out of my sight for
some time to come !'

Iris, amazed and aghast, was pushed aside
by the weak arm, and stood leaning against
the banisters till her grandmother had disappeared.
Then the girl began to creep slowly
up to her own room, hanging her head, with
half of her brittle-stemmed ferns broken and
crushed in her tightened grasp.

To Iris's fresh astonishment and apprehension,
Soames, after she had seen Lady Fermor
into the carriage, followed Iris, and sought admission
to her.

Soames was not a favourite in the house.
She was a hard-featured, cold-natured woman.
The impression was that so much was taken
out of her to enable her to keep her post to
the last by Lady Fermor, so as to entitle her
to the annuity which was believed to be

settled on the maid on duty at the time of
her mistress's death, that poor Soames had
nothing left wherewith to propitiate the favour
of the world. She had never made a pet
of Iris, as some of the other elder servants
had comforted their consciences and hearts
by doing. Soames had rather regarded the
young lady as standing somehow in the maid's
light.

But now Soames begged to speak with Iris,
and there was smouldering compassion in the
woman's dull eyes, and duller voice, when she
said :

If I were you, Miss Compton, I would
walk over to the Rectory, and stay there fora
day or two, as you sometimes do. If Lady
Termor inquires for you, I'll take it upon me
to explain that you understood what she said,
on the stairs, as a wish to be left to herself
for a little while. My lady has her humours
like most ladies of her rank and age, I suppose,'
said Soames, hesitating a little in the
caution which was an instinct with her, * and
she's in a bad one this morning; and if I
were you, Miss Compton, I would not fly in
the face of it, but keep out of her way, as
she bade you, till the worst pass over. If

you will believe me, I am speaking for your
good.'

I do believe you. I am much obliged to
you, Soames,' said Iris humbly, in her bewilderment
and alarm. ' But what can have
happened since breakfast ? What is the worst
that you say will pass over ?'

It is about Sir William Thwaite's marriage,
I think, miss,' said Soames, perhaps not altogether
reluctant, with all her lack of geniality,
to retail an astounding piece of gossip to a
person deeply concerned in it, and to be the
first to note its effect.

Sir William Thwaite's marriage !' echoed
Iris, turning crimson and drawing back, because
she was not able to conjure up in her
mind any bride for Sir William, save the one
who had been set apart for him, whom he had
so lately and so ardently sought in vain.

Yes, Miss Compton,' said Soames stolidly,
though she did not fail to perceive the
reddened cheeks and the erect head. ' I do
not like to mention such a thing to a lady,
least of all to a young lady; but you'll hear
it in church on Sunday with the rest of the
parish. Sir William is to marry Honor Smith,
the daughter of one of his under-keepers ;

her that my lady stopped coming to you with
berries and nuts, and such trash, when you
were a young miss and she a slip of a girl

Iris laughed. She seemed fated to show
her feelings in this fashion at different crises
in her history. She laughed again the same
nervous, quivering laughter to which she had
yielded when Lady Thwaite congratulated heron
her approaching marriage with this very
Sir William Thwaite.

Soames's touchy feelings were hurt.

You may not credit the story she said
gloomily, ' but I am afraid it is gospel truth.
My lady has driven over to Whitehills to beat
the bottom of it. And, if you will take
my advice, Miss Compton  excuse me for
offering it twice  you will go down to the
Rectory till the disturbance has blown over.'

Soames retreated, feeling that she had done
her duty, and had been treated as most people
who can thus justify themselves in their own
eyes may expect to be served.

The perfect confidence with which Soames
had spoken, together with Iris's knowledge of
the maid's prudent nature, had really robbed
the listener of all incredulity from the first.
Her earliest sensation was one of overwhelming

humiliation, not so much because of Sir
William's inconstancy as because of her rival
and successor in his regard. Iris Compton
had been deeply mortified, in her girlish
dignity and self-respect, by his having utterly
mistaken her friendliness, and addressed her
as no man who was not her equal, whom she
had not favoured in the light of a lover, ought
to have spoken to her. How was she to feel
when she heard that he had instantly transferred
his suit to poor Honor Smith, whom
she had known as a ragged little girl, and
lamented over to him  of all men  because
she was different from the humblest cottager
or working woman in the field, in her unwomanly,
vagabond habits ?

Iris thought next of the wrath of Lady
Fermor, and then she asked herself if she
would take Soames's advice. It went against
the grain with the girl to flee from, instead of
facing, the expression of the resentment she
had provoked. On the other hand, she was
docile to whoever sought to lead her in good
faith. She did not question Soames's commiseration
; perhaps, also, the maid was concerned
for her old mistress. And ought Iris
to risk injuring her grandmother by provoking

her to further paroxysms of passion, no longer
usual with her, and solely exhausting to the
frame, which had held together through all
the troubles of over eighty years ?

In the meantime Lady Fermor drove the
short distance, panting a little from the intolerable
airlessness under the low sky, seeing
the cattle standing in groups under any shelter
they could find, or straying home, in single,
file, in their distress.

The place did not look the same, though it
was only three days since she had been presiding
at a fete champStre there, paving the
way for Iris's becoming its mistress. The hay
had all been carted ofi" the meadow, which lay
stripped and bare as in winter. The first half
of the thunderstorm had committed havoc
among the trees, bushes, and grass of the park,
splitting up one oak, scattering leaves, beating
down twigs, conveying an impression of how
it must have laid low the glory of the summer
garden, though the devastation there was
unseen. All the merriment and gaiety, the
light figures and pretty dresses, were gone. Nobody
was visible. Whitehills lay as still as if it
had been devastated by an earthquake, or as if
a judgment was going to descend on the place.

Lady Fermor was fortunate in finding Sir
William at home. He had been over at
Hawley Scrub, but he had returned, and was
in the library. Lady Fermor did not give
him the opportunity of denying himself. She
told Cumberbatch to show her up at once to
his master. The butler was still in office,
though he was labouring under great perturbation
of mind, whether he ought not to give
in his leave, like Mrs. Cray, because of the
slur that had been cast on the family. But he
did not contemplate a matrimonial alliance
with the housekeeper, and, like men in the
mass, as opposed to women in general, the
gentleman was less impulsive and more practical
than the lady. Knowing the terms his
master had been on with Lady Fermor, and
having some inkling of the old lady's temper
and errand, it was a small satisfaction to
Cumberbatch to obey her implicitly.

Serve him right for being such a thundering
ass, with his jug of water and his book at
meals  like a low-life, radical scamp. If the
aristocratic old party were to scratch his eyes
out, bless you ! I shouldn't mind or interfere,
not if I could help it.'

ANOTHER INTERVIEW.

Lady Termor began, without the slightest
preamble or circumlocution, as soon as the
door was closed.

Thwaite, what is this that I hear about
your cutting your own throat V

I don't know what you mean by my
cutting my own throat,' he said a little sulkily ;
but will you not take a seat, Lady Fermor V

I would not, if my old limbs would serve
me,' she protested, sinking into the chair from
which he had risen, and keeping him standing
like a culprit before her. ' You do know
what I mean. It is I who want to be told
what you mean by being the maddest, most
misguided idiot that ever walked the earth,
and by forswearing yourself into the bargain.'

Seems a man like me,' he said, thrusting
his hands into his pockets, ' must take a good

deal from a woman. If I choose to cut my
own throat, mayn't I do it if I like ?'

No, not if you have a friend who cares a
straw for your welfare, not if there is a social
policeman left.'

Ain't there worse things than having done
with one's self once and for all V

Not that I know of, and I've lived a good
many more years than you have protested
the old lady steadily. ' It is like the broken
neck in the old song 

" A lover forsaken a new love may get,

But a neck that is broken can never be set."

Thwaite, did I not tell you to have patience,
and she would come round ?'

You told me false. Lady Fermor !' he cried
quickly, walking away, and turning his back
upon her for a moment to hide the torture
she was inflicting on him. 'And I have to
tell you that if you bring her name into this
conversation I'll leave the room and leave
the house, and you may stop till doomsday,
and go, as indeed you must, without your
errand.'

Is this all you have to say to me ?* she
asked in a lower key. ' Is this all the thanks

VOL. II. 28

Fm to get V she urged with pain as well as
pleading in her failing voice.

An appeal like this had always gone to his
heart.

'I know you've been good to me, Lady
Fervors he exclaimed. ' I dare say you have
meant kindly by me. Don't reckon me an
ungrateful brute because I say it has all been
a monstrous mistake. Don't force me to say
you've been my worst enemy.'

*You are your own worst enemy, William
Thwaite, if you force me to wash my hands
of you, and to have done with you from this
day.'

It cannot be helped,' he said desperately.
I believe it is the best thing that can happen
now.'

And do you make nothing of me, sir V she
reproached him bitterly. ' Do you give me
up without so much as heaving a sigh ? I
believed I had secured a son for my old age.
I meant to be like a mother to you ; I swear
it, Thwaite ! I never thought so little of
myself, or so much of another, in any friendship
I ever formed. I sometimes fancied I
was going to die soon ; it was so like feeling
good, as your simpletons and knaves pretend

to feel. I was a fool, and you have rewarded
me finely for my folly

'Then, maybe, as a mother forgives her
son's folly, you will forgive and forget mine
some day, Lady Fermor,' he said shyly.

'Never!' she said with all her former
rancour. ' It is not as if you only hurt me
cruelly; it is the disgraceful insult you put
upon me, after what I have wished to do for
you, as you know, and everybody knows, by
destroying yourself in the way you propose
to do. Look here, Thwaite : I am aware the
young woman did you a service  let us say,
the greatest service one human being can
render another. Let us say she took your
eye, too, by way of change  men's eyes will
rove out of their circle, and for old association's
sake you might have a hankering after
her ; but she would never look for your marrying
her. You could have pleased yourself, if
need were, without people's being much the
wiser, and made it up to her in another style.
You might double or treble the settlement,
because you have gone so far in a fit of pique
and rao'e as to mention banns and the church,
and commit yourself to the world.

That is, my lady, if I understand you

282

rightly,' said Sir William, half choking, his
ruddy colour growing purple with fury, ' you
would have me pay a woman for what you call
the greatest service one human being can
render another, and at the same time gratify a
brute's inclinations by behaving like a villain
and doing her the most damnable injury in
my power, and then propose to heal it by
money ? I am not a gentleman ; I do not
pretend, as you call it, to have been a goodman,
or anything save a ne'er-do-well,
drunken, degraded rascal, if you knew all ; but
I have not come to that yet  to what a great
lady, an old woman on the brink of the grave,
has brought her mouth to utter to a low beggar
like me, young enough to be her grandson.'

She blenched a little before his rage. If
there was anything she respected it was the
whirlwind of a man's just anger. She had a
perception of justice, and she sometimes
accorded to the men whose manhood she
could appreciate, the right to rule over themselves,
over her, and over humanity at large.
I grant it is awkward,' she said, ' and
unpleasant and improper, and if you take to
high-saluting you may call it all the bad
names you choose. But you have got yourself

into the scrape, and if you will not break
off from it, without another moment's shilly-shallying
 availing yourself of your horses
and your yacht  if you had one  but there
are always the railways and screw-steamers 
it will be the worse for you. My way of backing
out is at least better for you and everybody,
including the woman, mind, than your
putting an end to yourself by marrying a
drab like that.'

By George, she's the woman I'll marry as
soon as the banns are out !' he said with hard
firmness. * I might take out a licence ; but we
ain't ashamed of what we're going to do, and
driven to huddle up the doing of it, as some
of you fine folk are fain to try. I needn't tell
you we ain't in the fashion neither, having no
turn that way. Such being the case, will you
have the goodness to mind your manners,
Lady Termor, and keep from calling my
future wife names to my face, which I would
not suffer for a second from a man, but must
stomach from a woman  lady or not  because
I cannot use my fists to her ? I'll only say
this, that whatever you may mean by a drab,
I am free to tell you Honor Smith  my Honor

now  is an honest woman, which is more than
can be said of every fine lady.'

She cowered as if he had dealt her a blow.
Boy,' she said hoarsely, ' whatever provocation
I have given you, it is not you who should
have used these words to me.' She stumbled
to her feet, and prepared to totter out of the
room, while he stood, arrested in his violence,
with an apology checked on his lips. He
wished to give her his arm, which she had so
often taken in preference to any other support ;
but she waved him off. He followed her to
the door, and heard the first roll of the
thunder and splash of the rain. * Stay till the
storm is over. Lady Termor,' he besought her
humbly. * Your horses may be frightened ;
you will catch your death of cold. If you will
remain I'll send Mrs. Cray  no, she went this
morning, but Cumberbatch will fetch one of
the maids ; I'll not intrude on you.'

I would not stay another minute in your
house, not though all the fires of heaven were
launched on the earth and the deluge had
come again. Do you remember the words of
the play  not that you've been much in the
way of Shakespeare's plays  about not turning
your worst enemy's dog out of doors in a

pitiless storm ? But if I had been the enemy
or the dog I would have scorned the shelter of
a false friend's roof, a man who could taunt
and revile a woman, a grey-headed woman,
old enough, as he has said himself, to be his
mother's mother. You are not a gentleman 
you are right there  you are not even a man, as
I had stupidly thought you. Farewell to you,
Sir William Thwaite ; I have done with you
She went down the wet steps, rejecting all
assistance, was put into her carriage by herman,
and turned her back on Whitehills.

Iris had gone to the Kectory, where she had
sometimes taken refuge before, when she had
been made to understand that her presence
was not desired, in some specially troubled
state of the Lambford atmosphere. She was
always welcome, without a word asked, at the
Rectory. It was a crowded, well-worn house,
where even necessary expenses had to be
pared down ; but a place for her had never
been wanting. The Rector did consider her a
pet lamb of his flock, though he was occasionally
a little theatrical in implying the relation
between them. There was no insincerity in
his staginess. He was only somewhat flourishing
and flowery in speech and action, by

nature, which caused him to be one of the
most popular preachers within a considerable
area. Lucy was quite proud of his eloquence.
It had a different effect on Ludovic, who
could not escape the suspicion that his father
was apt to be grandiloquent, and that his
pathos savoured now and then of bathos. He
knit his brows sometimes  a strange exertion
for King Lud when he was at home, and
wished the governor could be carter and
simpler in his speech. The Eector's loquacity-helped
to seal his son's lips  at the same time
the young fellow knew his father too well not
to be sensible, to his own great comfort, that
his senior was single-minded and whole-hearted
in all the rhetoric he indulged in.

Harassed little Mrs. Acton, born an anxious
woman, and married on a small income, with
a large family over which to spread the scanty
supply of coin, had no time, as she frequently
said half-plaintively, half-peevishly, for speechifying
; but she still honoured and admired
her husband for doing both what she could
and could not do, and kept a corner in her
crowded heart and mind for one who had
grown up like a child of the family. This
fact was not seriously impaired by the circumstance

that Mrs. Acton  always under
the necessity of looking at the pounds, shillings,
and pence side of the question  had
permitted certain worldly considerations to
come in, where her regard for this outlying
child of hers was concerned. Iris might prove
a boon to her adopted brothers and sisters.
Her antecedents were not all that could be
desired. Lord and Lady Fermor had been a
trial and care to the Eector throughout his
incumbency ; but they were a peer and peeress
all the same, and Miss Compton, their granddaughter,
would inherit a considerable fortune.
No doubt she would marry suitably, whether
her heart might or mio-ht not incline eventually
to a distinguished naval officer, with
whom she had been on intimate terms from
childhood. Her early and constant association
with the family of a clergyman, and a clergyman
so much respected and admired as Mr.
Acton was, afforded ample assurance that she
had escaped any injury from having been
brought up by her poor old grandmother and
grandfather. It was not possible that Iris
Compton could ever forget what she had owed
to the Actons, or lose sight of the boys and
girls of the Kectory, in after-life.

Ludovic was thankful to get another and
more disengaged lady to play his accompaniments.
Lucy hailed gladly the advent of her
friend, and could count on her sincere opinion
with regard to the progress of the choir, and
her interest and help during Iris's stay at the
Rectory in all the work of the parish which
could fall to a clergyman, in the little rubs
with the curates, and in the Acton children's
lessons.

Iris, whose life was in the shade, would
have sunned herself, as she had done formerly,
in the light of being thus welcomed and appropriated.
Her spirits would have risen. She
would have become the life of the Rectory
while her visit lasted. But she had received a
shock, and the news travelling fast had already
reached the Rectory, and was disturbing it
too, in a milder degree. There would have
been some doubt and delicacy in discussing
the topic of the hour before Iris Compton, if
Lucy had not felt herself bound to come forward
before her friend's arrival, and explain
that Sir William's deplorable marriage could
be nothing to Iris, nothing in the world.
Lucy was driven to the verge of betraying
trust, she was so determined to clear her

friend from the undeserved stigma of having
been disgracefully jilted, and what was still
worse, from the remotest suspicion of having
entertained an unworthy preference  which
could now only return, with prejudice, on the
head of the person who had cherished the
misplaced regard. Lucy just kept within
bounds in solemnly assuring her listeners that
she knew for certain Iris would never have
listened to Sir AYilliam Thwaite, whom, no
doubt. Lady Fermor had favoured, though
there had not been such a person as Honor
Smith, or though she had never crossed the
gentleman's path, and he had stood firm, instead
of tumbling; headlong' from the eminence
to which he had been raised.

Thus Iris heard the general sentiment expressed,
with no more reservation than was
likely to be used in any of the country houses
round. Everybody was holding up his or her
hands for the moment, and crying, with Lady
Thwaite, that mes alliances were in the blood
as if family traits, like the best-regulated
comets, were bound to return at stated intervals.
The regret was general that the fellow had ever
been taken up in the fashion he had been,
though coming events neither did nor could

cast their shadows before. And as Sir William
had unhappily succeeded to the family title
and estates, it was not easy to see how
his neighbours could have avoided recognising
him, while he had behaved as if he meant
to keep quiet, improve himself, and do his
duty.

Mrs. Acton lamented the loss of Whitehills
from a visiting list, which was inevitably short,
for girls who could not go much from home,
and yet ought to see a little society. She
did not even think she could call there with
her subscription-book, if the new Lady Thwaite
proved the dreadful woman she was represented
to be. Since the Smiths did not come to
church, and Honor had been systematically
kept from school, Mrs. Acton had no personal
acquaintance with the offender. The clergyman's
wife spoke as if she feared that if she
presented herself at Sir William Thwaite's
house  which it was her duty or Lucy's to do,
and the matron must enter the breach to shield
her daughter  then, when the visitor mentioned
the Zenana Mission or the Coal and
Blanket Clubs, and took out her subscription-book,
the mistress of the establishment might
have recourse to some appalling practice 

point a gun or swear an oath to drive the intruder
away.

The Rector declared it was a highly unsuitable
marriage, which did not recommend itself
to him in any light. He had trusted that Sir
William Thwaite was assuming; his ancestral
responsibilities, and preparing to discharge the
obligations of his rank and position in a manner
becoming his  well, he could not say his birth
and education, but he might put it  with some
regard to the influence of his wealth and rankin
the county. Instead, there was this utterly
unbecoming, rash, ill-omened step, which was
calculated to bring contempt on his order, and
at the same time to heighten, rather than to
decrease, class antagonism.

I am rather sorry for the poor beggar
King Lud stood up for the assailed man ;
though I do not believe he has any soul for
music. You remember I could not agree with
you on his waltzing, Miss Compton ? Possibly
the coming Lady Thwaite has never seen him
waltz. I consider the loss is mutual  indeed,
rather the greater on her side. She seems to
be game all through  a splendid wife for the
last of the great travellers, or the settler on
the remotest verge of civilization  she will be

more lost at Whitehills than lie can be, though
he should fall back into her set.'

Don't talk nonsense, my dear boy,' insisted
Lucy. ' He must be a horrible man
to have known anything better, and then to
select a wild woman, a heathen, for his wife.
I don't suppose she was ever so much as taught
her Church Catechism. I know both papa and
Mr. Enables were refused admittance to the
cottage at Hawley Scrub  at least, they could
never find anybody at home when they called ;
could you, papa 1'

When Lucy was alone with her friend, then
Lucy caught Iris's hands. *It seems almost
wrong to congratulate you on the dreadful
folly of another person ; but oh, I do, my
dear  I do wish you joy of such a wonderful
escape ! I know you never looked at him or
thought of him for a second in such a light.
Who has such good reason to know that as I ?
But when I remember how I brought myself
to regard the match as bearable for you, how
could I do it ? Iris, it is like a special interposition
of Providence on your behalf.'

Iris drew back with a little shiver, and grew
very pale. What if it had been no special
Providence, but simply her doing ? His words

were rinocino; in her ears  that she had sent
him away from her with seven devils, instead
of one, to bear him company.

Lucy entirely misinterpreted Iris's emotion.
It is hard for you, at present, my love, for
we all know Lady Fermor is rather a difficult
person to deal with ; but though old people
do not like to be thwarted in what they have
set their hearts upon, they soon forget, and
she will speedily recognise that you have been
very fortunate, and will be thankful for it in
her own way.'

*It is not that,' said Iris, twisting and untwisting
her slim fingers ; 'it is not grand-mamma,
though of course I am very sorry for
having vexed her. But what if I drove him
to it % It seems a very vain thing for me to
say,' added Iris, blushing deeply, * but I believe
he cared for me a great deal more than I
deserve. He was terribly put out in the hay-field.'


You could not help that, Iris,' said Lucy
promptly.

No, but all of you, unless your brother,
speak of her as if she were some shameful
creature whom you can hardly bring yourselves
to mention. And I am afraid,' continued

Iris, with her eyes growing moist and
her lips quivering, * when I first heard the
story I did the same. I thought I was doubly
disgraced by being brought into association
with such a woman as Honor Smith. She was
only a little less despicable than he was, because
she did not know any better, and it did not
appear to signify what became of her.'

No, not that exactly,' denied Lucy.

I had forgotten the forlorn child, the warmhearted
girl who used to bring me from her
wanderings in the woods and the downs, anything
she thought I might like, and was so
pleased to have it to give to me,' said Iris
piteously. ' Indeed, Lucy, though she had
the misfortune not to be taught or confirmed
though she has not availed herself of the
privilege of coming to church  though she is
wild, she is not bad, apart from such lawlessness
as her father and brothers may have
taught her. Now what will become of her 
of them both ? Everybody will turn against
them. She will be separated from the few
friends of her own she has ever had, and if
even he does not care for her, and they are
both miserable, I am to blame for it all,' cried
Iris, with her hazel eyes opening wide and her

lips falling apart in the extremity of her
distress.

My dear child, you are a great deal too
tender-hearted and scrupulous Lucy told her
decidedly. * It is no business of yours ; you
ought only to be thankful for your own escape.'

But I was never in any danger,' persisted
Iris, 'and I am only one rescued to two
ruined.'

Such a one to such a pair !' Lucy exclaimed
indignantly.

Iris's next words sounded as if they were
in answer to the scornful objection, though
she had neither heard nor heeded it. ' There
is something fine in him. He is not mercenary.
He has stood by his promise to his friend to
drink nothing save water ; and she  she is
not wholly bad. Oh, far from that, when one
thinks how she has been brought up. She
might have had the making of a grand woman
in her. And who made any of us to differ,
Lucy, that we should condemn instead of being-sorry
for them ?'

But they are not sorry for themselves, and
it is their look-out,' protested Lucy, with good-humoured
impatience. * Leave them to take
care of themselves and of each other. If there

VOL. II. 29

be any good in them  I confess it is not very
conspicuous to me  there is no reason why it
should not come out. My dear, forgive me for
laughing and scolding you a little, but I am
so happy on your account. You will allow me
to say you are a little fanciful, and draw too
nice distinctions.' Then Lucy in her turn
grew serious and sententious. * Iris, how could
you praise a girl who has been mixed up with
poachers all her life, who can drink, and swear,
and shoot  not that the last is a sin, I suppose,
unless she shoots at game which is not her
own, or at something else than hares and partridges
 but it is so unwomanly and cruel.
Lud talked some nonsense about her being a
splendid wife for a traveller or settler, but that
is because men think it necessary to praise
courage and daring wherever they meet them
even King Lud falls into the affectation 
while they don't hesitate to prefer timidity
and humility in any woman with whom they
themselves have to do. Who prevented
Honor Smith from being taught and confirmed,
and from coming to church ? I am
certain she had every opportunity, but she
chose to be a heathen. I dare say she will
continue so after she is Lady Thwaite  a fine

example for her household ! I don't know
whether even the Bishop, dear old soul, could
confirm her privately. Iris, how can you call
her good ?'

Everybody who is confirmed and comes to
church is not good replied Iris, defending
herself.

Certainly not, but at least they put themselves
in the way of becoming better. The
last time I heard you speak of Sir William,
when I was over at Lambford, you never
hinted at reserves of nobility and virtue in his
character. Nobility and virtue in a man who,
after the company he has kept for the last five
or six months, sinks himself and destroys his
usefulness for the rest of his days by marrying
the daughter of his under keeper  a girl like
Honor Smith ! Don't preach the reverse tome.
The man must always have had low
tastes, which is not at all to be wondered at,
and he had never got quit of them  you may
spare yourself your self-reproaches. Depend
upon it, he could never have really appreciated
you or cared for you, though he might easily
have admired you and felt some ambitious
aspirations. There is no denying Lady Fermor
led him on to fancy he might propose for you

292

and be accepted. But lie consoled himself
quickly with an unworthy consolation. Iris, I
am surprised that you can find any pity to
waste upon him. Take my advice and don't
do it, dear ; be wiser and harder-hearted, lest
people, who do not know you, take it upon
them to say you cared a little for him, and are
disappointed by his horrid conduct.'

I don't think you quite understand, Lucy,'
said Iris, in a low, slightly hurt tone. She was
not in a mood to mind what people said of
her, but it pained her to find that her friend
could not sympathize with her in her tenderest
feelings. * It is not that I think he need have
cared much  that I am any great loss.'

My darling, don't say that  I never
thought so,' Lucy interrupted her affectionately.
* The loss of every hope of you, might
well be the greatest earthly loss, all but enough
for a man to break his heart about. For you
know papa does not consider  and I agree
with him  that a Christian ought to break his
heart quite about any merely earthly good.
But then this man has shamed himself, and
shown that he was a world inferior to you,
not capable of valuing you. I know you are
not vain  the last girl in the world to be vain

but I think you exaggerate unconsciously
here. Perhaps you have been the least bit
carried away by your first proposal, however
unacceptable in the main. They say every
girl is slightly tele monte on the occasion. I
am biding my time. It will be a small comfort
to me, if I have not even a chance of
being anything save an old maid, that I shall
have been delivered from the general houle-vehement.
If not, I shall look to you to sit
upon me and set me right. Seriously, you are
far too soft-hearted, and so you put weight on
a few disappointed words from an angry man,
who was doubtless not considerate or cautious
enough to hide his mortification and annoyance.
And it is still more like you to preserve
a vivid recollection of what  foro-ive me, Iris !
was, I dare say, the designing visits and
worthless gifts of a girl of Honor Smith's
stamp.'

She was not designing  of that I am
certain, but very likely I am silly,' Iris ended
the conversation with a sigh. She had to
confess to herself ruefully that she was disappointed
in Lucy's response to her confidence,
though it might be no more than what was to
be expected, when Lucy possessed only the

most superficial second-hand acquaintance with
the chief features of the case.

The fact was that Lucy, on her part, wronged
Iris more than she guessed, by the passing
suspicion  could she, after all, feel mortified
by the loss of Whitehills ? Had she, like some
girls, not been so honest in the rejection of
her suitor as she had persuaded herself she
was, so that the suddenness with which she
found the suit withdrawn and herself superseded,
nettled and vexed her ?

However, Lucy had the grace to experience
next moment a lively sense of contrition for
having been tempted to pass such a judgment
on her friend. It was incredible, on second
thoughts, to one who was not herself mean and
heartless, who had known Iris Compton all her
life, that she could figure as a worldly-minded
girl or as a vain coquette, capable of trifling
with a man who had proved himself in every
sense, except in the light of his title and property,
immeasurably her inferior.

On the following day there was some calming
down, except in one gentle heart and
sensitive conscience, of the excitement over
the great event of the week, which as far
transcended the long-talked-of cotillon ball, or

the Whitehills hay-making, as a murder surpasses
in grim interest a cricket-match or a
flower-show. Lucy and Iris strolled together
to a nook which they were pleased to call their
own, in the overgrown Rectory shrubberies.
These had the advantage over the somewhat
run-out garden ground, that whereas neglect
in the first tended to nothing worse than untrimmed
luxuriance, in the second the same
absence of attention to what was purely ornamental
led to poverty of result in the flowerbeds.
But no one need mind having let well
alone, by the sparing of the gardener's shears
round the seat placed among the great box
bushes, and among the laurels and plants which
threatened to become gigantic. The view was
confined to the inevitable pond, in which the
Rectory boys had made an island, where there
was an actual punt, in which the girls sometimes
condescended to sit and be rowed, running
aground every minute  not nearly so
satisfactory a progress as that in a washing-tub
on a mill-dam, King; Lud allen-ed.

Iris was trying to enjoy, as she had been
wont to do, a piece of work and a book with
Lucy, feeling all the more bound to be happy,
because hard-working Lucy was making an

hour and a half's leisure, on purpose to spend
it in congenial pursuits with her friend. If
only Iris could have got rid, on the first of
the golden autumnal days, of that doleful
burden of two lives wrecked inadvertently by
her means. Lucy might tell her it was conceited
to think so, but Iris could not cast off
the impression. Poor Sir William ! Poor
Honor ! Looking at their marriage in every
light, Iris could not believe that there was
any chance of its turning out well. He was
going to marry Honor ' in a pet,' according to
the mild popular interpretation of a man's
having become mad with rage and despair.
And Honor, what was she marrying Sir
William for ? A short triumph over her
neighbours, a fit of false pride, a passing
fancy ? Could she ever have settled down,
after the restless, exciting, sometimes lawless
life she had spent from childhood, even so far
as to comply with the primitive requirements
of a labouring man's wife ? And she was to
be Lady Thwaite of Whitehills, joint head of
a large household, the mistress of one of the
oldest, best-considered houses in the county.
If she turned to her husband for guidance and
support, then it would be the blind leading

the blind. She would lean on a broken reed,
which could hardly fail to pierce and wound
her  mortally it might be, for she was a high-spirited,
proud-tempered, passionate woman.

While the girls sat and worked and read,
with the undercurrent of troubled dreaming
on one side, Lady Thwaite, the coming
dowager, had called at the Rectory. It was a
P. P.O. call. She wished to see the girls, and
preferred going out to them, to having them
sent for to come in to her. Mrs. Acton
accompanied her, and the group stood for a
few minutes, talking idle nothings among the
box and laurel bushes.

Then there was a summons for Mrs. Acton
to return to the house, and she made a sign to
Lucy to accompany her. ' Lady Thwaite has
something to say to Iris, and we had better
leave them to themselves,' the little woman
said somewhat fussily to her daughter, when
they were a few paces off. . '

Lady Thwaite suddenly stopped the well-bred
nothings. * Do you know what I am
going to do, Iris ?' she inquired directly.

No,' said Iris, a little bewildered and
alarmed. ' I thought there was nothing; that
could be done. AVhat can you do ?'

For him  nothing : but for myself, I hope,
a good deal,' answered the lady hastily. ' I
am starting tomorrow morning for Switzerland,
where I shall pass the rest of the
summer. In the autumn I shall either go to
Italy or return as far as Paris, and spend the
winter there.'

'You have planned the trip since I saw
you,' remarked Iris awkwardly, not knowing
very well what to say.

Of course. Should you have liked to have
gone with me ? But you would have been
dreadfully hurried in your preparations.
Besides, there would have been no use in
proposing it, for I am convinced Lady Fermor
would never have given her consent. She has
quarrelled with the whole world, including
myself, on account of Sir William's insane
behaviour. We are all alike in her black
books, as if we would not  some of us at least
have done our very best to prevent the
catastrophe.'

All the time Lady Thwaite was speaking,
she was thinking to herself, ' It is the nice
thing to say to Iris Compton, and I might
have been glad of her company in a way.
Her French has not got the time to rust that

mine has had. But she has shown herself an
impracticable girl. Above all, I might meet
people who would know her name, and have
heard of the Fermors. There might be
revivals of scandal and unpleasant reminiscences.
I have done my duty all my life,
why am I to pay the penalty of other people's
iniquities ? She has been a fool for herself
and others, and done a great deal of mischief
all round, with her child's face and her goodness.
I am not sure that she is not such an
idiot as to repent, and, what is still worse, to
show her repentance when it is too late, for
she looks dreadfully distressed, and is changing
colour every minute.'

But Iris had some spirit left. ' Thank you,
Lady Thwaite, I should not like to go from
home just now, even though grandmamma
wished it. It would seem as if I were running;
away, either from something I had done, or
from something that was going to happen,'
she finished a little vaguely, but she held up
her head, and there was a fine colour in her
cheeks while she spoke.

'You are perfectly right. I am glad that
you see it in that light,' said Lady Thwaite
approvingly. ' The little gossip which mixes

your name with the affair will soon die out. I
wish the misfortune might end there

But is it not possible for everybody to live
it down ?' said Iris bravely. ' Must you go,
Lady Thwaite ?'

'Yes, indeed. I have had a long trip to
the Continent in my mind ever since Sir
John's death. I was only once abroad, and
that was for my honeymoon. But Sir John
caught cold the second week, and was notable
for sight-seeing, and could not be induced
to believe that he would be comfortable or
could get well till he was at Whitehills again.
Oh yes, I intended to go, but I did not
imagine that I should be driven off in this
fashion ! I wish to goodness I had started at
once for a change, and moved on as I felt
inclined.'

But could you not help them,' interposed
Iris anxiously  * Sir William and his wife ?
they will have nobody to stand by them.
You are connected with him ; you have
influence in society.'

Iris Compton, have you lost your senses ?
what can you mean ?' protested Lady Thwaite
indignantly. ' It is bad enough to think of
such a woman in my place. It is forcing me

away from my home and my friends, but for
you to suggest that I should countenance her T

I don't know why you all cry out so
against her burst from Iris. ' It is not fair,
and it is merciless. If she is wild she is not
faster in her rank than Lord Eastham's family
have gloried in being in theirs. Maudie and
Nanny Hollies have done as many things to
make people stare, without a particle of the
excuse that Honor Smith could plead. You
have countenanced Sir William, yet one would
have thought that harder to do.'

It was hard,' said Lady Thwaite ruefully,
to acknowledge a rude lout in my husband's
and boy's place, and to defer to him. But I
did it ; nobody could say I failed. Oh, Iris, if
you had played your part, how much harm
and sorrow would have been spared !'

The reproach, however unmerited, fell in
with Iris's equally gratuitous conjunction and
stung her sharply, so sharply that it helped
the inconsistency of human nature to reassert
itself proudly.

How can you speak so to me, Lady
Thwaite ? was I this man's keeper ? He was
something to you ; he could be nothing tome.'


'Very well, Iris, let us drop the subject
said Lady Thwaite, continuing it all the same,
while she composed her ruffled plumes. 'It
is true I have no call to blame you, but
neither should you be so foolish and childish
as to suggest that I ought to adopt this ill 
or well-matched couple. The thing is not to
be thought of for an instant. It would be
improper  wrong. It was quite different in
Sir William's case. He came here a single
man, and we might have made something of
him amongst us all  we might have trimmed
and polished him by judicious management.
Don't put up your lip, you little goose,' Lady
Thwaite was provoked to add, though she
was no longer out of temper, and was speaking
more in sorrow dashed with playfulness, than
in anger. ' You will know some day that
men have to be managed for their own good,
as well as for a quiet life and an honourable
position, where women are concerned. But if
I were to attempt to take this Honor Smith
up, it would be for no good either to her or
anyone else. A woman like her is beyond
being subdued and cultivated.'

Lady Thwaite paused for a moment, and
then began again : ' Good heavens, Iris, what

could put it into your head to compare her to
the HoUis girls and the Eastham family,
aristocrats from their cradle, and so with carte
blanche for eccentricity ? But they always
know where to stop, and never risk their
prestige. I should soon be let down and cut
dead by all my set. I cannot afford that.
What do you take me for, that I should fling
away all the good things of this life  which
are not so easy to get, to begin with, as a
short-sighted girl fancies ? And for whom
should I make the sacrifice  a Sir William, a
distant, unacknowledged kinsman of my late
husband, and his low-born, ill-conditioned
wife, with her doubtful reputation  however
you may explain it away and defend her V
Lady Thwaite was silent once more, and then
finished with a touch of natural pathos, ' If it
had been my boy grown to be a man, and I
had negotiated his marriage like a proud
mother who would not have counted the best
match in the country, or the most beautiful,
amiable girl too good for her son ; and if he
had turned against me, against all his wisest
advisers  though I cannot imagine it of
Johnnie, supposing he had lived to become
strong and grow a man  still, if he had chosen

the worst instead of the best match, I might
have tried to make the most of it and risked
something, or even lost all for him. But that
is a mother's heart ; no other heart can belike
a mother's.'

Iris might have answered, none save the
heart of that most perfect type of womanhood
in which motherliness is the central human
principle from the beginning. It may be seen
in the little girl who  mothers' in succession
her doll, her kitten, her dog, her thoughtless
schoolboy brother, her selfish grown-up sister,
her exacting, unconscionable lover, her grumpy
husband  until the long roll at last reaches
her first bona-fide baby. It may be seen in
the aged woman whose last conscious thought
is to give others pleasure and save them
trouble. But Iris remained silent.

I shall not see you for some time, my dear
girl,' said Lady Thwaite, in her most caressing
tones ;  I hope  nay, I have not the slightest
doubt  that any little misunderstanding or
difference of opinion we may have had will be
entirely forgotten before then. In the meantime,
I shall look forward to our next meeting.
We part friends, don't we, Iris '?'

Oh yes, we part friends,' answered Iris, a

little mechanically, and Lady Thwaite kissed
and left her.

Iris clasped her hands and asked herself,
Why cannot I believe her % She blames me,
to be sure ; but even she does not refuse to
admit that I was free to act as I chose. Lucy
everybody agrees in that, unless grand-mamma,
and I can make allowance for her
liking for Sir William and her wish to get an
establishment for me. Oh, I don't want an
establishment : and it is most humiliating; to
have one sought out and planned for on my
account. He did not think of things in that
light. However unreasonable and unsuitable,
he sought me for myself, and implored me to
take him  not Whitehills. Has he got over
it already % Is this that he has done getting
over it, or will worse come of it, with two ungovernable,
reckless spirits in collision  not in
union % Lady Thwaite fears it, and so she
has taken herself away not to be tortured or
shocked by the tragedy

Iris set herself to brood on all the most
horrible tragedies  the unhappy memories of
which lingered in a remote, primitive county
like Eastham. There were disappointed lovers
who had shot themselves, dying with the stain

VOL. II. 30

of their life-blood upon their hands. There
were neglected ill-used women who had sought
the oblivion of strong drink, or worked themselves
into frenzied madness under the contemplation
of their wrongs. There were hapless
little children who grew up uncared-for
and forlorn, bones of contention instead of
links of love between their miserable fathers
and mothers. And who was it that had first
used the defence which Iris had made so glibly
to Lady Thwaite ? Cain, who slew his brother
Abel. She must have dismissed Sir William,
but could she not have done it so gently, with
such humility instead of pride, with such sympathy
and sorrow, that she would have retained
him as her friend ? She might have helped to
win him to what was good and right, in place
of sending him to his destruction.

One of poor Honor's grave offences, in the
eyes of the Eector especially, was that she had
not been in the habit of coming to church.
But Sir William had always marched there,
taken his seat in the Whitehills pew, and
joined in the service according to military
usage. From the first day that the banns
were published, he marched Honor to church
in his company, on the ground that they would

do nothing in the dark, and they were not
ashamed of their purpose, which they were
bringing to its legitimate issue. He did not
ask her to sit with him in the Whitehills pew ;
he descended the gallery stairs, and sat by her
in one of the humble free seats near the door,
which she had been wont to occupy on the
rare occasions when she had been seen at
church.

He did not enter any protest against her
dress, possibly he did not notice it in the pitch
of furious reaction and defiance which he had
reached, though he knew that she had refused
all gifts from him till she was his wife. Thus
she wore nothing better than the least rusty
of her black gowns, with one of her gaudy-coloured
neckerchief, and the concession of a
hat over her rough brown hair. In this guise
she still appeared a handsome, striking-looking
woman, and there was no denying that the
discharged soldier and the poaching scoundrel's
daughter formed a comely, stalwart couple.

The sensation which the pair excited was
beyond what would have been produced by
the entrance of the Queen and every member
of the royal family into the country church
though Eastham was not behind other English

302

shires in loyalty. The Eector had difficulty in
keeping his place and countenance, and reading
with his usual solemn dramatic effect. If
Lady Fermor had been in her pew she would
almost certainly have spoken out her disapproval,
to the scandal of the community ; but
the old lady was absent, for which more than
one person felt devoutly thankful.

Iris saw the two from the Rectory pew, and
after one startled, wistful glance, in which she
failed to meet the eye of either, a certain
peace stole over her little face. They were all
together in the house of God ; they were equal
in His sight. Would not He make everything
right and bring good out of evil ?

There was one person who ventured to greet
the tabooed bride and bridegroom, from whom
others separated themselves and scattered, as
if the couple were uncanny, or carried about
with them the seeds of a pestilence. The
daring individual was, of all people, that modest
fellow. King Lud. He went out of his way to
intercept and address Sir William, a piece of
attention which met with no encouragement
from its object, and drew down censure upon
the bestower.

My dear Ludovic,' Mrs. Acton remonstrated

with her son afterwards, ' what could induce
you to come prominently forward and speak
to Sir William Thwaite to-day ? You were
not so intimate with him as to warrant that.
It would have been no credit to you if you
had been friends, but I believe you were on
little more than speaking terms. This was
such a conspicuous, unnecessary step on your
part, my dear boy, and it looked  it really
looked as if you were lending your countenance
to a disgraceful proceeding which has grieved
your father and me very much. It was
affording a bad example on your part also,
Ludovic'

My dear mother !'  Ludovic took the
reprimand with perfect good - humour  ' I
could not cut the fellow as I saw other people
do, because he was going to marry any woman
in the world he chose to marry. But before
you allow your serenity to be disturbed
remember I have no countenance to lend. I
am a poor beggar of a naval lieutenant, a
complete nobody, except in your partial
estimation. And as to a bad example, I hope
I may never supply a worse. I must say, if
the governor has no more evil deed than this'
,0 cut him up, he is uncommonly well off

which, I am willing to add in the most filial
spirit, he deserves to be. King Cophetua may
still marry the beggar-maid, I hope.'

Iris looked round at Ludovic Acton with
eager pleasure, and she was so soft and kind
to him for the next few days, that if ever there
were danger of friendship passing into love
this was the time.

Sir William Thwaite and Honor Smith were
married, without more trouble, or without any
demonstration of public dissatisfaction, on the
day they had fixed. They went no marriage
tour, but repaired to Whitehills, which was
likely to afford them as entire retirement as
they could desire or hope to procure elsewhere.

Iris Compton returned to Lambford about
the same time. For some weeks her grandmother
shunned her systematically, but, beyond
the fact of the shunning, the only sign of
Lady Fermor's displeasure was the angry light
in her eyes and the snarling abruptness of her
tones, when she was forced to speak to Iris.
As the inevitable intercourse of daily life
gradually relaxed Lady Fermor's avoidance of
her grand-daughter, the old lady began to let
out more of her feelings. But as 5et it was
no worse than the first scratches inflicted by

the envenomed talons, and Iris had known so
little of the soft pats of the velvet paws which
frequently precede such attacks, that she
could bear them without outcry, only with a
little inward moan.

A RUDE Idol.

By the time the names had been read for the
third time, and the marriage of Sir William
Thwaite celebrated, September and St. Partridge's
day had arrived, which proved a boon
to the newly-married couple, and a reprieve
from that repenting at leisure which is apt to
follow marrying in haste. The Thwaites were
as solitary, though no doubt considerably safer,
than any boycotted household in the wilds
of Western Ireland. The very household at
Whitehills had shrunk in the blight of the
alliance which its master had formed. Mrs.
Cray had fled from the first unmistakable
tokens of the advent of such a mistress,
with the odium which would attach to her
innocent housekeeper. Mr. Cumberbatch, who
knew a good place when he was in it, and had
contracted a certain amount of attachment to

Sir William, in spite of his water-drinking
and the great difference between him and the
Dean, lingered on till  without any breach of
honour on Cumberbatch's part, since Lady
Thwaite generally spoke her asides in a louder
voice even than Lady Fermor used  he heard
his mistress allude to him as an old humbug
and blockhead, and was directly addressed by
her with primitive playfulness as ' White
Choker' and ' Shiny Boots.' Neither freedom
from control, nor time to himself, nor perquisites
could atone for such gross liberties. So
Cumberbatch too departed.

Bill Eogers, with considerable shyness and
doubt of his powers on his part, was promoted
to ' wait ' in the butler's place. Whatever
blunders he committed and erratic corrections
he attempted, Sir William made no sign, and
Lady Thwaite was satisfied. Bill did not care
a straw where his own dignity was concerned,
though Lady Thwaite, with whom, as Honor
Smith, he had been acquainted in her early
days, would call him ' Bill,' as she called her
husband ' Will,' and stop him in his duties to
recall some story of their old experience, or to
tell him news of their common acquaintances.
But however led on or laughed at by her, he

never would forget her title, or speak to her
till she spoke to him, and he persisted in behaving
to Sir William with double respect and
deference.

Sir William, like Mr. Purcell, blurted out
an equivalent for ' fudge !' and turned away,
half in restlessness, half in pain, but the young
groom was staunch in maintaining his tender
discretion and faithful devotion.

Those of the womankind who had not given
in their * warnings ' like a flock of sheep, after
Mrs. Cray's great example, turned out sufficient
for the contracting needs of the household.
Lady Thwaite did not take much notice
of them or interfere with them, and while
they made a great many remarks upon her,
she did not, somehow, come within their
measurement. She inspired them with a mixture
of wonder and awe, not altogether unlike
what might have happened if she had been a
great lady.

Honor Lady Thwaite's first impression of
Whitehills, seen near at hand and familiarly,
was slightly disparaging, as in the case of her
husband when he was introduced to his place
by Mr. Miles. Not even the library shook
Lady Thwaite's conviction. It was not true

that lie could neither read nor write, as had
been said at the time of her marriage ; but
though she could spell through a line of print,
and sign her name in rustic letters. Belles
Lettres had not the smallest attraction for her.

What a great musty, poky hole ! What
an 'horrid smell the leather of them books
have ! Why don't you turn 'em all out, and
find room for 'em in the garret, or kindle a
bonfire 'neath 'em, Will ? I'm certain nobody
will ever open them mouldy boards.'

In the drawing-room, which the Dowager
Lady Thwaite had lately envied, which Lady
Termor had contemplated with pride as that
little fool Iris's assured possession, of which
Iris herself had owned the simple, stately
charm, there was still in the new Lady
Thwaite's mind the same surprised contempt,
not unmixed with exultation over those better
things that the Squire's wife had always enjoyed
while she was but the unbroken-in
daughter of a disreputable keeper.

My sakes ! it is the empties, dingiest
place I ever seed for a room in a great house.
Is this what you call a fine drawing-room V
She pulled open the piano and banged the
keys. ' The birds in the Scrub do a . heap

better than that without teaching or pay.'
She walked up to one of the Sir Joshua's :
What queer washed-out madam is that, with
a muckrake fit for a child in her hand ? She
looks heathenish  she ain't dressed for her
work.'

Would you like some new stuff of furniture,
Honor V asked her husband, only the
more willing to humour her, because she had
come to him at his bidding as she stood.
You know there's a balance at the banker's
for us to get rid of.'

Oh, speaking for myself, I ain't particular
about furniture, as you can tell, lad ; and
what with the keep of father and the gifts
you have insisted on sending to Ted and
young Abe, we'll make a hole in the balance.
But I've been thinking if any of my friends,
my mother's folk, as have heard I'm a squire's
lady, would care to come over, I'd not like to
put them off with a faded, shabby place like
this here for a drawing-room. They would
expect to see something tasty and bright and
rich. A cart-load or two of satins and velvets
all the colours of the rainbow, might make a
difference,' considered Honor reflectively. For
such ideas as she had were sumptuous.

All right acquiesced Sir William. ' Write
down or tell me what you want, and I'll send
the list to the first upholsterer in Birkett or
Caversham/

Better say London when you're at it, and
the man in the shop he can tell, a deal cleverer
than me, what's like to be wanted. You'll
just say fine furniture of all kinds for a seedy
drawing-room.'

The roving order was driven, and the transformation
which Iris had once imagined as
Sir William's doing, became an accomplished
fact. The upholsterer, quick to take a hint,
made a considerable clearance of the older-fashioned
stupendous lacquer and gorgeousness,
together with all the hideous fantasticalness
and incongruity which were yet to be
found in his shop.

The fine, dainty old room at Whitehills
became a brand-new, more expensive, and
meretricious copy of the drawing-room at
Lambford, and Sir William never put his foot
in it if he could help it.

Lady Thwaite said this new state of things
was more like the real article. But she did
not really care for the grandeur she had
evoked, and she could not put up with the

trouble of inhabiting several rooms when one
or at most two would serve her. She fell
back on a dull morning-room which had been
converted into a smoking-room, where she
said she and Will might be tolerably snug
when they were by themselves and happened
to be in the house. Bill Eogers might bring
them their meals there without any to-do when
they wanted them.

At first Lady Thwaite changed her black
gowns for something she held to be more in
keeping with the station to which she had
risen. Hei' choice of dress was not happier
than her selection of furniture. Stuffs, patterns,
dressmakers were all fixed upon at
haphazard, on no conceivable principle except
that notion of sumptuousness which she had
not been able to indulge hitherto, and the
scrap of fondness for ' a high light ' in a bit of
brilliant colour, which had already existed in
Honor Smith's red, orange, and sky-blue
neckerchief. Imposed upon here also by the
specious vendors of the wares, with her gaudy
finery ill put on, and so badly treated that she
never wore a gown three days without looking
a full-blown slattern as well as an outrageous
vulgarian, Lady Thwaite's dress offended

even her husband's half dormant taste and
eye.

Fortunately she soon grew tired also of her
gay clothes, and found them highly inconvenient.
She replaced them by adaptations
in purples, bronze-browns, greens, and slate-colours,
of her old rusty-black ' frocks ' with
the bright neckerchief in some silken stuff, asa
relief to the prevailing sombreness of the
attire. Thus clad she had the gratification to
receive her husband's congratulations on looking
more like her former self.

Old Abe occasionally invaded the honeymoon
privacy of the young couple, but nobody
else came, with one striking exception. Mrs.
HoUis declared that she had visited so many
squires' wives exactly alike that an entirely
new variety ought to be refreshing, and it
would be hard for her to miss the much-wanted
refreshment. The present Lady
Thwaite might prove a great acquisition in
this way, and might be trotted out with the
utmost benefit to her neighbours. Mrs. Hollies
assured * Peter,' truly enough, that the young-woman
had not been a bad character, only a
little wild according to her station in life.
Luckily for the peace of one corner of East-ham,

the Thwaites were literally not at home
when Mrs. Hollies left her own and her husband's
card for them. In return she had a
singular scrawl written by Lady Thwaite on
her own responsibility. She was much beholden
to Madam Hollies for her bits of pasteboard.
In the meantime, during the shooting
season, she and Sir William had not a moment
to spare ; but later on, if they should be passing
Thornbrake, they would look in.

Mrs. Hollies called the note delicious, showed
it off to her Eastham relations, and exhibited
it generally, but nothing came of it. Sir William
and his lady were never at leisure, or
they never happened to be passing Thorn-brake.


One other visitor, a brave and gentle one
in this case, would fain have entered the
Whitehills gates again, held out the right
hand of fellowship, and done what she could
to bring order out of chaos. But Iris had no
more power to refrain from abandoning the
couple to their fate, than she had possessed
power to use her hold on the gratitude of the
girl Honor in order to win her to forsake * the
broad way and the green.'

That season's shooting at Whitehills was on

the whole a prolonged, innocent, healthy, and
happy saturnalia. Honor went out every day
with her husband and brought down as many
birds as he did, though he had shot bigger
animals. Old Abe was almost always in attendance,
full of solemn importance and cunning
delight. Waterpark, like the other higher
functionaries at Whitehills, had thrown up his
commission in disgust, when his thieving
subordinate not only escaped all prospect of
punishment, in addition his word threatened
to demolish the decrees of the head-keeper.
It was characteristic of Abe that though he
boasted continually he was now free of every
covert, water-meadow, turnip or stubble-field
on the property, in the right of his daughter,
and could fire his gun where and when he
chose, and dispose of the products as he liked,
at his own table or in the game shops in the
next town, he stole and snared, and helped
others to poach of nights as much as ever.

Bill Rogers completed the party. No additional
men were wanted for the doors, runs,
or game-bags. Abe and Honor knew the
dogs and could control them. Each ' gun '
carried his or her weapon and bag, seeking no
relief, scouting the bare suggestion of it.

VOL. II. 31

Honor pelted her husband with ridicule when
he proposed to carry her gun and bag with
his own. It was with some difficulty that the
wilful woman was kept from constituting herself
a beast of burden to the whole party by
slinging all their bags round her neck, and
piling their guns on her shoulder, in order to
parade the strength of which she was proud.
She had found or fancied that her battered
straw hat interfered with her aim, and had
replaced it sometimes by a cap of her
husband's, sometimes by one of her gipsy
handkerchiefs.

The whole party lunched, rather dined together
afield, on the most free and easy terms,
but for Bill Rogers, who would always be
minding his manners. However, a meal al
fresco is not like a meal within doors, and Sir
William winced less often abroad than at
home at words Lady Thwaite spoke, and acts
she committed. Here it seemed no more than
natural that she should loll against a tree-stem,
or by a hedge, and smoke her pipe with
the others ; for Honor possessed the accomplishment
of smoking in its unvarnished form,
unlike the fine ladies who nibble cigarettes,
and ape, in what they are pleased to consider a

dainty fashion, the habits  not to say vices 
of men. Poor Lady Thwaite was more honest ;
she smoked a short clay jDipe coolly, in the
frankest manner, exactly as men did for a
physical solace after labour. The blue smoke
curling from her full red lips, and rising above
her brown face, as she sat with her head flung
back or resting on her hand, perfectly at her
ease, did not seem so out of place when the
green earth was around her, and the fleecy
clouds just tempering the sun in its zenith
overhead.

The little party pursued their game till
nightfall, and trudged home all dead-beat, still
hale and cheery, content with their exploits,
hopeful of what tomorrow held in its lap. It did
not matter much whether the weather were good
or bad to the hardy company that could face
soaking wet, and defy the elements with marvellous
equanimity.

Seen at a little distance, Sir William's
shooting-party was unquestionably grotesque,
and excited no end of sarcasm and laughter,
yet it is doubtful whether any other shooting-party
in the neighbourhood got as much
pleasure out of their more civilized sport, and
had as good a time of it.

312

Sometimes Sir William and Lady Thwaite
varied their occupation by a day's fishing, but
here, though she was still more his equal, and
busked his flies and baited his line as well asher
own, and softly stroked the water far more
unweariedly, the close companionship proved
less successful. The two were performing a
duet, and the discordant notes, which would
mar the harmony in the end, could be more
plainly heard already. But it was Honor
who taught Sir William to love his own woods
and fields with a passionate fondness which
would last to the day of his death.

It was an evil time for the husband and
wife when even the last days of the pheasant-shooting
waned, and the chill end of October
gave place to a bleak November, which began
with early black frosts that threatened to mar
the prospects of the hunting-field. At their
best they were to the Thwaites a poor substitute
for the shooting. A meet and a run were
a more open game, and could hardly be conducted
in a homely family fashion. There
were yeoman farmers in the field, no doubt,
but the mass of the riders were Sir William's
fellow squires who, though they had not
objected to his subscription to the hunt, now

showed generally as great a disposition to
drop him, as they had ever displayed an ir.o]i-
nation to take him up. Even if they Lod
done otherwise, he would have resist  ;:ir
overtures, for he had passed from neutrality
in politics to bitter radicalism. But it was
not pleasant to encounter old acquaintances
and be dismissed with compassionate nods, or to
see them turn their heads in other directions.

Sir William could ride, but Lady Thwaite
could not. She had never been on an animal
more dignified than a donkey in her life. The
redoubtable champion of Amazonian feats on
foot among the beasts of the field and the
birds of the air, the fine fissure of a woman
walking in her half-gipsy guise, was reduced
to helplessness and sat like a sack of com in
the saddle. She was not too proud to conquer
her deficiencies, she had courage enough to
surmount any difficulty, but she showed herself
too impatient to learn slowly and surely.
After one or two premature exterior dinar'
appearances in the hunting-field, and * .spills '
which made the M. F. H.'s hair stand on end,
Sir William withdrew on his own account,
and induced Honor to absent herself from the
diversion of the season.

Lady Thwaite detested driving. She took
half-a-dozen trials of her carriage, then said it
made her sick. She had employed it in order
to go to church in state. It served as a sorry
excuse for abstaining from joining the assembly
of her fellow Christians which she had
no mind to do, that she could not ride the
distance. It went without saying that she
could walk the distance half-a-dozen times
any day, and would have indignantly rebutted
the statement that she might suffer fatigue by
the exertion.

With the falling leaves, the dank mists
which are so conspicuous a feature of East-ham,
and the shortening days, the newly-wedded
pair found their open-air resources
largely gone, and were driven within doors.
It was as if the wailing utterances of the
prophet were sounding afresh, ' The summer
is past, the harvest is ended, and ye are not
saved.'

Long before his marriage had left him undone.
Sir William had awakened from his fit
of rage and despair, as he had awakened many
a time from the madness of drink, to be sensible
that Honor Smith was no wife for him.
He knew that he had better cut off his right

hand or pluck out his right eye than wed her,
that such wedlock would certainly be his,
probably her ruin.

But he had also said to himself that it was
too late to repent, that he could not leave a
woman who had trusted him in the lurch, that
they must go on and take their chance, and
God have mercy upon them both.

It was incredible at first, besides being
extremely vexatious and humiliating to Sir
William, to find that in so short a time he had
acquired something of the tone of the class
he had renounced and detested, and saw no
reason why he should not continue to detest,
in spite of the fact that so many of Honors
words and deeds stood out in antagonism to
his better self and plagued him. He did his
best to hide the unwished-for acquisition and
crush it out of him, but it rose from its ashes
and forced him to own that, be his principles
what they might, he could never be again
what he had been, before he entered on his inheritance,
and moved for a brief space on
terms of equality in more intelligent and cultivated
circles. He might be that monstrous
anomaly, a stuck gentleman  neither one
thing nor another, disowned by both classes.

that in which he had been born and brought
up, and that into which he had been for the
shortest time adopted. He might be a social
outcast, doubly repudiated, but he could not
return to his original obscurity and live and
die the common working-man he had started
in life, with his great succession no better
than a wild dream.

His reading had included considerable
dabbling in the great dramatist whose breadth
and strength meet all wants, whose work,
next to the Bible, is fit to unite all English
classes, and is, if possible, more acceptable
and enthralling to the intelligent mechanic
than to the dilettante scholar. Sir William
had read of Christopher Sly and the trick
which the merry and not too scrupulous duke
played upon the dupe. Often Christopher
Sly rose before Sir William's mind, and he
compared himself to the man. He questioned
whether the drunken dog ever recovered from
the dazzling, enervating illusion of the imposition
practised upon him.

When Sir William went back to his books,
to tide over the dull, dark, winter days, he
tried to take Honor with him. He would
read to her what she might care to hear, as he

had read the 'Racing Calendar' and the details
of the last murder to old Lady Fermor.

But Honor could not abide books, whatever
the subject. The very sight of print was disagreeable
to her. She would not have listened
even could Sir William have hit on registers
recording the experience of mighty hunters
and great sportsmen, or the nature-insert of
the word-painters of the woods and fields,
with their teeming life, in which she had lived.
She cared for the things themselves, but not
for the finest reflections of them. The bare
obstacles of his measured voice, and a style of
expression less homely than she had been
accustomed to, would have been enough to
deprive her of all sympathy with the reader.

Lady Thwaite could hardly work unless in
the coarsest make shift for sewing, and she
hated such woman's work next to listening to
sermons, with which she always confounded
listening to reading.

She moped and wandered about restlessly
and aimlessly, went constantly to her father's
at Hawley Scrub, at the most ill-timed seasons,
and took to visiting her mother's kindred at
the Quarries to pass the time.

Sir William began by accommodating himself

to his wife's wild habits, for a longer time
than could have been looked for from him.
He had never shirked acknowledging his
father-in-law or even his connections by marriage
at the Quarries. What had he been that
he should treat the roughest fellows as his
inferiors, or behave as if he were ashamed to
be seen in their company? He went with
Lady Thwaite both in broad day and under
cloud of night, when the fancy took her, to
Hawley Scrub. He showed no provocation,
which was, doubtless, because he cared too
little for his privileges, on seeing, as he could
not fail to see, that old Abe's ways were unchanged.
Lady Thwaite was more aggrieved
than Sir William, and went so far as to rate
her father soundly for trenching on ' the rights
of things.' ' These birds and hares are Will's
and mine, father. Yow. are welcome to a share
your share of them, but you ought to be
content with that. It ain't serving us fair to
make them public property, or to put them
away on the sly to fill your pocket when
you've everything you could wish and nought
stinted to you, and Will do have come down
handsome to the boys.' At other times she
took the matter as an excellent joke, and

lauoliecl long' and loud at the contradiction.
For Abe himself, he was always complacent,
cunning, and a trifle cringing.

Neither did Sir William decline to accompany
his wife to the Quarries, or to be present
when the Quarry gossips, men and women,
came to Whitehills, to join in the family meals,
marvel at the splendour of Honor's drawing-room,
and soil its flaunting finery with their
hob-nailed boots and smutty or greasy fingers.
Sir William had returned to the ranks of the
people, and he must accept his natural associates.
So far as they were concerned, any
momentary sense of feeling abashed, by finding
themselves amonof surroundings so different
from their own, vanished rapidly before their
engrained brainless effrontery.

It was in connection with the Quarry folk
that the smouldering discord in the situation
took shame, and threatened to burst into a
blaze. These natives of Eastham were a specially
uncouth, violent, debauched set of people.
They had no modesty, else they would
have held back a little even from Lady
Thwaite's boisterous, ladsh invitations, and
Sir William's grave endorsement of the same.
The Quarry men and women had no respect

for themselves or for others, otherwise they
would have let the master of the house alone
in his peculiarities, and would not have taken
offence at his sobriety, with the comparative
quietness and reasonableness it lent to his
behaviour. He did not impose the restraint
he put on himself on any of them. He did
not even restrict the mistress of the house,
when knowing what her guests liked best 
what, if conspicuous by its absence, would
render a feast flat, flavourless, and unendurable
to their disorganized natures and morbid
cravings  she caused ale and gin, rum and
brandy to flow freely. The mirth grew fast
and furious in consequence, the talkers shouted,
quarrelled, and had occasionally to be dragged
asunder, as they were about to close in hand-to-hand
fights. Never had Whitehills seen
grosser orgies, even in the drunken days of
the Restoration, or the rude revels of Mediaeval
times. But Sir William was well enough acquainted
with such scenes, though he had
never before known how brutal and sickening
they could present themselves to a sane onlooker,
who endured them while he sought to
keep the peace.

Nevertheless the detachments of quarry men

were by no means satisfied with being left to
follow their debased inclinations in putting an
enemy into their mouths to steal away their
brains, and so suffered to degrade themselves
into raging, insensate beasts. They felt affronted
with their host or guest, as it might
be, spoiling all true fellowship by not affording
a good example in drinking deeply and steadily.
They were secretly enraged with the man and
inclined to vow vengeance upon him, when,
with his conscience tormenting him and all
the higher qualities he possessed reproaching
him, he still doggedly indulged them to the
top of their bent.

The women  the greatest gadders from
house to house, the biggest scolds, the most
ragged slatterns, and in self-defence, perhaps,
the most frequent drunkards of all the working
women far and near  turned, too, upon
the man who, though he had a whole cellar
full of drink at his disposal, was not enticing
men, by his abuse of it, to spend their
children's bread in the ale-house. What business
had Honor Smith with a husband who
was not only a titled squire and had made her
Lady Thwaite, but who could not take a glass
like his neighbours ? For a young unmarried

woman, she had not been so far behind her
matronly friends. It was not one glass or
two either that would go to Honor's head ;
she need not try to make a fool of them by
coming over them with a pretence of growing
proper all of a sudden.

It would have been the last thought which
would have entered Lady Thwaite's mind to
pretend to be other than the wild reckless
woman she was. She did not require the
goading and taunting which met her on all
sides from her coarse, stupid, envious cronies,
to display herself in her worst colours, to
defy all implied opposition, including her
husband's.

If these riotous tempters had known it, they
had a powerful ally in Lady Thwaite's breast.
She was not dull as they were ; she was not
book-learned, but she had plenty of mother-wit,
as well as an overweening pride and a
passionate temper. She had been accustomed,
in the days which seemed far off now, when
she had sprung up from a neglected little girl
into a strong, capable woman, to be a person
of importance in her family and circle. She
had not thought often of Sir William's condescending
to her, from the evening of the

hay-making. Since he had told her his story,
her thought had been to stand by him and
atone to him for the injustice which had been
done to him, and the burden thrust upon him
of having to put up with fine folk who were
not of his kind. Her heart had grown soft
to him; she had been very happy in those
September and October days in the woods and
fields.

But for that very reason Honor had been
quick to detect the slightest sign of what she
must regard as recantation and rue on his
side. She had been galled by the faintest
token of disapprobation and disappointment
fi'om her husband. In place of seeking to
submit to his judgment and to suit herself to
his tastes, she flourished her independence and
opposition in his face and in the faces of her
friends.

He remonstrated with a reservation, because
he knew in his heart what she suspected,
while the suspicion was driving her mad, that
he had no true love and fond admiration for
her in his heart, such as might have caused
him to overlook her faults, or to win her
fi'om them, by patient devotion. Her conduct
was offending and incensing him, and

the more he grew offended and incensed the
more contumacious and audacious she became.

The couple took to going their different
ways ; rather Sir William sulked and sat alone
in his topsy-turvy, disorderly house of White-hills,
while Lady Thwaite roamed abroad and
pursued her vagaries wherever the vagabond
impulse of the moment drove her. The result
was that she was from home at all hours,
and was frequently to be found in any company
to which he had an objection. When
called in question for her behaviour, she
either asserted her right to do as she chose, or
lied and made a feint of deceiving her husband.
But she did the last with so brazen a face and
so carelessly, that it looked and sounded as if
she either told falsehoods and cheated for the
mere pleasure of the thing, or sought to put a
fresh insult on Sir William.

The roar and surge of domestic discord
rising and swelling filled the ears of the principals
in the strife, even of the minor performers
in the household contest, so that they
could not distinguish the loud, vehement condemnation
of the world without.

Old Abe remonstrated anxiously: ' Lass,
what are you about? Be you going to spoil

your luck and waste your fine fortune? Is
there an evil spirit in you? Xo man born will
long stand the treatment you are giving he. I
have seed a man take a stick or a poker to his
wife, and break her head or go nigh to brain
her, for a deal less.'

Iever mind, father; Sir William will not
break my head or brain me. I can take care
of myself, and I'll do what I like. Maybe
there is a devil in me  leastways I'll not stand
his cold looks and sour fault-findings. Who
axed him to leave the fine cattle he consorted
with? Let him go back to them, if he will
have them and their ways.'

The crisis could not be long deferred, when
a house only built the other day was already
shaking to its sandy foundation.

VOL. II. 32

THE BEAST WALLOWS IN THE MIRE.

Lady Thwaite's last transgression had been
to walk over to Hawley Scrub, before the
wintry daybreak, to meet and warn a brother
of the dead Hughie Guild's, whom even the
shuffling Abe did not countenance, and whom
Sir William had been roused to threaten he
would hunt out of his plantations and bring
before the justices.

Hughie Guild had perished in his comparatively
innocent youth, or he might have
been the best of his race  anyhow the remaining
Guilds were well known to be the worst
livers in the parish; women as well as men of
them were abandoned to shameless vice. It
was only lately that Lady Thwaite had
renewed her acquaintance with the Guilds, and
Sir William had sworn she should not enter
their house, or he would know what to do.

Lady Thwaite, after she lead got Zachary
Guild out of danger, denied that she had been
near the Guilds' house, and announced her
intention of visiting her most intimate friend
at the Quarries, where Sir William no longer
offered to accompany her.

In Honor's refuge she was plied with jeers
and sneers at Sir William as a pattern-card,
a great hulking reformed water-drinker,
and she was taunted dth her subjection to
him.

She defended him hotly for a time :

You are not to say ill of my man Sir
William. He's a deal too good for you and
the likes of you. You are not fit, the best of
you, to hold a candle to him. He have come
of gentlefolks, and he was hand and glove with
gentlefolks so long; as he chose, but he
liked his freedom and he liked me.'

She did not care that anybody should blame
him save herself ; she only changed her tone
when some persons hinted broadly that he
must have altered his mind, and could not
think very much of her after all. She was
to be pitied, with a husband at once a squire,
and not a fostering squire, but a nonsuch.
As for the speakers, whatever their men were

322

poor quarrymen, never out of the ale-house
at least they were no better than their wives,
and could not indulge in despising them.

Honor cried out she was as good as Will
Thwaite any day, she was no man's slave; and
she began to drink and shout, gossip and sing
snatches of songs. When she returned to
Whitehills it was with an unsteady step, a
blazing face, and clouded eyes.

Sir William sat waiting for her in the comfortless
room, without the vestige of a woman's
presence in it  not a bit of darning, or an
ironing blanket, or a screen hung over with
white clothes, such as had marked his sister
Jen's home. He had discovered by this time
that though Honor had not been at the
Guilds' house, she had gone out at break
of day to keep an appointment with the
scoundrel Zachary Guild.

The husband was at hia post in a white
heat of fury, meaning to charge her with a
violation of all duty to him, and utter disregard
of his credit and her own. But the sight
of her, as she stumbled into the room, gazed
at him with half-blank eyes, and broke into
senseless laughter, stopped him. He stared
at her in return with such a look of wild

despair as to penetrate even her dazed faculties ;
then she made some foolish excuse and left
him.

When Sir William Thwaite was by himself
he clenched his fists and rose to his feet,
quivering with passion.

It is all over,' he said aloud ; ' peace and
credit are both done for. I did not mean
it when I said I would return to the ranks of
workings-men : and when I married that woman
I thought she was true as steel, and would
help to keep me true to myself and her. But
I have seen it coming, and now there is not a
grain of hope left. If you were here, Jen,
you would release me from my word, and
pray to God to forgive me. For now, as
I am a sinner and mated to a sinner, there is
nought remaining' to me but to drown care,

or) '

and drink myself blind and deaf and dead
to what I have made of my life.'

He staoforered to the door as if he were
drunk already, went out into the darkness,
walked to the nearest ale-house, which was shut
up for the night, and thundered at the door
there till the amazed and alarmed landlord
granted him admittance. Then, against law
and gospel and Will Thwaite' s word to his

dead sister, he sat pouring out and emptying
glass after glass of fiery spirits faster than
he had ever done in his wild youth, till he was
past thinking, past feeling.

Before the week was over the hue and cry
rose that Sir William Thwaite, who had
disappeared from church and market, was
never out of one ale-house or another ; that
he was drinking himself into a lunatic asylum
or the grave, in the lowest company ; that he
had become a common brawler, with whom
the police would soon be compelled to interfere.
This was what had come of his not being
able to drink his glass of port like a Christian
gentleman and Squire. Many people had
pointed out what such unbecoming extravagant
abstinence portended, what had been
its origin and what would be its end. It was
but an interlude between a drunken scamp's
fits of debauchery. After the low marriage
he had tumbled into, what further chance was
there of his keeping his pledge, or promise, or
whatever it might be ?

Lady Thwaite was subdued for a time.

What's come over you, Will ?' she asked
almost timidly  'you who would not taste
drink, to take to it all of a sudden, and like

a fish. But you needn't go to them ale-houses
and taverns where you are a marked man.
Have your liquor here, where nobody has any
right to forbid you, and you'll have nobody to
quarrel with in your cups.'

What ! you don't think I should quarrel
with you, my lady, not though we were
two at a trade ?' he said savagely. ' Ah, you
don't know me yet. Besides, I prefer taking
my sprees on my own account, and not at
home. We have not pulled so well together
of late that we should risk keeping company
when wit is out. I am not come to the
lowest pass that I should sit in my own house
of Whitehills  the old Thwaites' house, confound
them, and drink in company with
my wife till we quarrel, and fight, and
agree again like the idlest wretches in the
barracks.'

It was only once. Will,' she said with
strange humility for her. ' Did you ever
hear of me or know me as a drunken drab 
am I like it ?'

But he broke away from her, and she
desisted from all further expostulation with
him. Nay, in place of seeking to reclaim and
restrain him, it appeared as if she were

thenceforth set on goading him on and
exasperating him to the utmost pitch. She
pursued her own course not only without
hesitation, she threw herself in his way, crossed
his path, and defied him when he was more
like a mad animal than a sane human
creature.

But Sir William was not left altogether
undefended and uncared for. Go when and
where he liked, to ale-house or tavern, when
he stumbled out of it, he never failed to find
one faithful friend, whether the miserable
fellow knew it or not. Bill Rogers was a
sober lad, though he could indulge at a
time in a single glass or a couple of glasses ;
but nothing on earth would induce him to
drink with his master. He turned away
his eyes from Sir William's debasement. He
never spoke of it voluntarily. When assailed
with gibes and mockery, he said stoutly
and loyally all that could be urged in defence
of a lapsed sinner. Bill was constantly
hovering shamefacedly in Sir William's
neighbourhood, ready to osier him his servant's
arm if the Squire would accept it, wary to
follow and keep him in sight, if he waxed
furious at being wdiat he called tracked and

spied upon, to prevent his slipping into pond
or ditch, or lying down in the frost or the
wet, on the withered or sodden grass, and
dying a dog's death.

It was in vain that Sir William stormed
and threatened :

'Do you think I wish you to be ruined
as fast and sure as myself, Bill ? Ain't you
a precious sight better chap than your
master ? Don't he know it to his cost ?
But he ain't such a selfish brute as to wish
you to pay the piper, and to have your
destruction to answer for, in addition to his
own and that of a few more fools. Come
along, Bill Eogers, and I'll stand you a treat.
We'll swallow something hot and strong.
I'll tip you an old soldier's song, and we'll
have a rare blow-out, and make a night of
it. Into, you won't ? Then I'll be hanged if
you shall play the flying scout at my expense.
I give you your leave, lad, from this day,
with a month's wages. Who sends you on
your dashed prying errands at my heels ?
tvTot Honor ? Much right she has to meddle.
Or is it somebody else whose name I'll never
speak again with my polluted lips ? She
was an angel, Bill; but she wrought my

undoing. No, no. That is false as the place
I'm bound for. She was as innocent as the
babe unborn, only she could not touch pitch
and be defiled. It was I who was the beast
I have always been.'

One day about this time, Sir William was
walking down the middle of Knotley High
Street, as if challenging any man to say his
gait was disorderly, and his dress slovenly,
when he felt a clap on his shoulder.

 Hallo ! Thwaite,' cried the insolent voice
of Major Pollock. ' I hear you have come
out of your shell, slipped your cable or your
moorings, or what shall we call it ? since I
saw you last. My dear fellow, I like you
a thousand times better for it. I have only
one crow to pluck with you. Why will you
descend to the gutter, and not go to the
bad in good company  that of gentlemen
like your  ahem ! forefathers ? I assure you
that you would find it more agreeable, if
you would only try us, and we should
make you heartily welcome. Come to my
den and have a game at billiards and a
glass of beer or grog, if wine don't suit your
stomach.'

But Sir William shook him off.

I'll see you far enough first, Major
Pollock. If Tm going to destruction, and
I ain't the one to deny it, it shall be with
humble folk, who are as low as I ever was ;
it shan't be for the entertainment and profit
of them that calls themselves gentlemen.
Whatever I am or may sink to, me and
my mates don't care to earn a penny, with
our tongues in our cheeks, from our neighbour's
sin and shame.'

There was another incident in Sir William
Thwaite's history which belonged to this
period. Parliament was dissolved, and a
general election ensued, bringing political
agents and men from a distance, to town and
burgh, to contest interests keenly, and canvass
hotly for votes in houses which the visitors
would not otherwise have entered. By one
of those singular chances, which happen at
least as frequently in real life as in novels,
AVill Thwaite's old commanding officer,
Colonel Bell, who had returned from India,
was nearly related to one of the candidates for
the favour of this section of Eastham, and came
down with him to Knotley to help his cause.

In examining the lists of voters, the name
of Sir William Thwaite, of Whitehills, soon

turned up. Colonel Bell immediately recognised
it, and, upon a few inquiries, found that
the later career of the young man had been
very much what might have been expected
from certain early passages in his life.

The officer hinted his acquaintance with the
Baronet in his chrysalis condition. Colonel
Bell went on to admit that the news of Sir
William's accession to the title and estate had
reached the soldier through the speaker, that,
in fact, he was the Colonel who had given Sir
William Thwaite his discharge from her
Majesty's service. But being the soul of
honour, and a man who did not care to
present himself in an undignified light, the
gentleman kept to himself the offence and the
impending punishment which had immediately
preceded the discharge. The inevitable result
of his reticence was that he found himself
pressed to accompany the candidate, and use
the officer's supposed influence with Sir William,
who was understood to be indifferent to
politics, to vote for the right man.

Colonel Bell yielded against his judgment
to the pressure put upon him, and drove ina
carriage full of ardent electors, who would
take no refusal, to Whitehills.

The visitors experienced more regret for the
deterioration of the fine old place than for the
degradation of the new Squire. There were
traces of changed days as the party drew near
the house. Of course, when it came to that,
Sir William's dissipation had been of a cheap
and mean order compared to that of some of
his predecessors. He had still an ample
supply of ready money to squander and work
mischief with ; none of the grand old trees
had been felled, the park had not been used
for grazing purposes, and sufficient time had
not elapsed for very conspicuous signs of
downfall in other respects. Xo gate was off
its hinges, no fence was full of holes, no jDath
positively overgrown. But the exquisite dainty
trimness of an English gentleman's place,
which had been conspicuous in the late Sir
John's day, was wanting. What nobody
looked for or heeded under the present regime
was no longer supplied by the diminished
staff of servants. Weeds were cropping up,
borders left rao:D:ed, branches broken and untrimmed.
Some cottages which the young
Squire had begun to build, in which he had
taken an interest, stood half built, as the
masons had left them on the first of the winter

frosts. In the meantime the builder had come
to grief, and failed to fulfil his contract. But
no fresh contract had been entered into, and
the uncompleted houses, like unfulfilled promises,
appealed mournfully to the passer-by.
There had been an old-fashioned lamp, since
the days of links and their extinguishers,
which, though seldom used, was left to hang
in its place above the principal gate it was
supposed to grace. Its thick, dim glass had
been smashed recently, and remained in a few
jagged fragments in the metal framework. A
baker's van, which ought to have been taken
round to the back of the house, had boldly
driven up to the front entrance and stopped
the way, as if there were no chance of a dispute
with a vehicle of higher estate. The
thin wedge of neglect and aggression was introduced,
and the rest would follow, until the
house became as great a wreck as its master.

Lady Thwaite was abroad, as usual, and, if
she returned in time, did not show her face
amidst the tawdry splendour of her drawing-room.


Colonel Bell did not think the haggard-faced
man in the rumpled, mud-bespattered
clothes, in which he might have slept for a

Aveek, who reluctantly came in answer to their
summons, was an improvement on his young
sergeant. The latter, in spite of his fits of
excess, had been wont to turn out on parade
scrupulously neat and smart, as became a
gallant soldier.

How are you, Thwaite ? You see I have
looked you up when I am in the country,'
stammered Colonel Bell a little nervously.
I have come to ask a favour from you in
renewing our acquaintance. Will you, if you
have no objection, lend your support to my
friend on the hustings and at the polling-booth
next week ?'

Sir William did not take the hand held
out. He stood still, and glared with his
blood shot eyes at the speaker.

It wasn't I who ever asked any favour of
you. Colonel Bell, that you should seek a
return from me,' he said, in a thick, altered
voice. * You have forgotten, sii, or your wits
are wool-gathering. It was my poor sister
Jen. Do you remember her, or was she too
humble a lot to stick in your memory ? I
was told that she went down on her marrowbones
to you, though she was a proud woman
in her way, was Jen, if you had snowed it ;

but you pushed her away, and said discipline
could not be set aside, not though a woman's
heart were to break  as hers was broken by
that date  or a young rascal be doomed to the
gallows, since there was nothing else he could
hope for after that morning's work

He stopped speaking to a unbounded
company, while Colonel Bell, with a face as
red as fire, or his old mufti, muttered :

I thought it had been made up, and the
past forgotten,' and began to back to the door.

But Sir William arrested him. ' When it
comes to that, you did your duty, old Bell 
we're meeting as equals to-day, ain't we ? 
which is more than I ever did. I can't ask
you or your friends to eat or drink with me,
for though we're social equals, you and I
know that would not be fitting. But you're
welcome to my vote, though, bless you ! my
presence on the hustings would be no credit
to your man. I can slink up with the ruck
to the booth, and give you what Jen herself,
had she been here and a voter, would have
given you freely, man. For though you were
hard, we always held you honest ; and though
you helped to do for me, that's neither here
nor there. I was going to the dogs anyway,

and would have reached them in the honor-run
without your aid, I take it. I have that faith
in you and your choice that I believe it will
be the country's own fault  as it was mine 
if it don't do as well as it deserves under the
rule of the likes of you, old Bell !'

What a strange character !' ' Who was
Jen ?' ' What on earth had you to do with
him besides giving him his discharge. Colonel?'
At least we've got his vote, which was what
we wanted,' was chorused round the officer
when the party had reached their carriage.

Yes, yes, you've got his vote, and I really
believe you've me to thank for it,' said the
Colonel, wiping his forehead ; ' but I'll be shot
if I undertake such another encounter on your
account, Charlie. That fellow Thwaite must
have been as mad as a hatter from the beginning.
Scrapes ? oh ! of course ; a fellow like
him was safe to be in a thousand scrapes.'

Some of the stories with which the country
was ringing reached Lady Fermor. Then she
assailed her grand-daughter in the privacy of
the old lady's dressing-room. ' Have you
heard the news. Iris ? Sir William Thwaite
has broken out, and sits drinking himself to
death with carters, and quarrymen, and tramps,

VOL. II. 33

for anything I can tell.' The speaker fixed
her hollow, gleaming eyes on Iris's face, and
spoke with deliberate calmness. ' He and his
beggar-wife are at daggers-drawing, so it is
feared murder may be committed and somebody
hung for it. What do you think of that
for your work, girl ? We have all got oursins
to answer for, but I should say that was
something to have on one's conscience.'

It is not my work, and it need not lie heavy
on my conscience,' protested Iris, with her
whitening face. But though she knew she
spoke the truth, and would not be silent
because she was not afraid to maintain her
innocence in such hearing, when she got to
her room she shed bitter tears.  Grand-mamma
accuses me, and Lucy bids me rejoice
in having escaped such a miserable fate ; and
I  what can I do but cry to God to have
mercy on His lost sheep  His lost children ?'

LADY THWAITE's LAST Prank.

Spring had come, with violets and daffodil
adorning the anniversary of the time when
Sir William Thwaite had taken possession of
Whitehills.

Iris Compton had been spending the morning
with Lucy Acton at the Rectory, had
remained to luncheon, and was walking' back
alone to Lambford. She had always been
fond of country walks, like most healthy,
happy English girls, but after she had grownup
Lady Fermor laid certain restrictions on
her grand daughter. Unless when she had
Lucy Acton or some other companion with
her, Lais must be content to confine her expeditions
to the park, or the Lambford woods, or
the home farm.

Latterly Iris had been only too willing to
comply with the obligation. The truth was

332

she had an almost morbid terror of meeting
Sir William or Lady Thwaite, as she heard of
them now, when they had become the scandals
of the parish. ' I should feel as if I must die
of shame if I saw him as they say he is often to
be seen now. And what if she were to come
up and speak to me ? I could not refuse to
answer, and what should I say ?'

This day was an exception to Iris's usual
habits, for Lucy Acton had been unexpectedly
prevented from bearing her friend company
on the road between the Rectory and Lamb-ford.
However, the way did not lead past
any of the Whitehills gates, as the road from
Knotley did, and the afternoon was perhaps
the least likely time for awkward encounters.
Still Iris increased her pace in the slight spring
mist which was beginning to descend upon
the pastures, with their daisies and marsh-marigold,
their colts and lambs. But though
the mist might strike human beings as lending
a touch of dimness and sadness to the spring
landscape, it did not so much as subdue the
larks carolling in the hazy air, or the rooks
hovering over the equally hazy earth.

Iris started a little, scolding herself for her
folly, when she saw a man's figure turn the

corner of the hedgerow  on which, as in
autumn, thousands of floating gossamers were
softening the sharp outlines of the boughs
that were no looser of an earth-brown or
ashen-grey tint, but had the faintest blush of
bluish-plum colour marking where the sap
was stirring and swelling, and sending out
the first buds. The man was walking steadily
along on his proper business, no doubt. He
was a biggish fellow, young and active by his
gait, carrying nothing save a whip in his
hand, with which he was carelessly cutting at
the hedge. As he drew near Iris, she recognised
that he was a groom from some of the
neighbouring country houses, apparently going
an errand on foot.

Iris did not look at the man again till he
left the footpath to make way for her. Then
some intangible peculiarity in the air and gait
of the young man in buskins, with the dark
frock-coat and the cockade on his hat, caused
her to look up suddenly in his face, while her
heart began to throb violently.

The man was seeking to push past Iris,
while at the same time he pulled out a handkerchief,
and buried his face in it, as if in
preparation for a sneeze or cough. The movement

did not conceal the poppy-red which rose
and burnt through the brown skin of the
cheeks up to the rim of the hat, or stifle a
noise of sobbing, or giggling, or both, that
had become audible.

Iris had not a moment left to think that one
of the meetings she had dreaded had come to
pass, but so oddly and incomprehensibly that
natural instinct got the victory. She caught
the retreating figure by the arm and clutched
it If the person thus stopped had exerted
any force, the interruption could have easily
been brought to an end ; but something stayed
the strong, rough arm, and after the slightest
struggle its owner stood motionless, while Iris
cried out in her trouble :

Honor ! Lady Thwaite ! why are you in
this absurd dress ? What are you going todo?
Surely this is the height of indiscretion.'


What do it matter to you how I dress, Miss
Compton ?' Honor tried to answer with hard
defiance. ' You ain't a friend of mine. You
would not own me or come nigh me. What
does it signify to you whether I'm mad or
not ? Let me go.'

No; since we have met, not till you tell

me where you are going in this outrageous
guise ; whether Sir William  your husband
knows,' gasped Iris.

What business have you or any other woman
to come atween me and my husband ? to seek
to know our affairs ? No, miss ; I'm obliged
to you for desiring to satisfy your curiosity,
but if you don't take off your hand 111 be
forced to free myself, and I don't want to hurt
you

I know you don't,' said Iris, pressing close
to the desperate woman, instead of drawing
away from her. ' You were fond of me, long
ago. We were both fond of each other, if we
had been suffered to grow up friends. You
came to me with your little presents  I was
thinking of one last night, bunches of dry
sea-grapes, that I might put them into my
fire and hear them go off like a succession of
small shots  don't you remember ? They
were all given for such a little service. I, a
child, was amazed at your generosity. Oh '
Lady Thwaite, it is not curiosity  it is not
even a spirit of interference ; but, indeed, you
don't know, you can't guess, what people will
think and say if they see you like this.'

I don't care what they say ; let 'em. I

am sorry  a little  that you should think
bad of me, but for the rest of the world they
may think and say what they please,' said
Honor scornfully, in spite of a little softening
to begin with, as she switched the hedge with
the whip in her disengaged hand.

But Sir William will care. Men  the
best of them  cannot stand harm said of the
women who are near and dear to them,' pled
Iris.

You seem to know,' said Lady Thwaite,
taking refuge in insolence, and tossing her
head till she had nearly lost her chimney-pot
hat. ' But I've always said I ain't any man's
slave, and what is more, I ain't going to be.
I don't believe he minds ; and what right
have he to meddle when I don't set eyes upon
him for nigh a week at a time, because he is
living in one ale-house or another, sitting
swilling ale or brandy with all the low raff
he can find to drink with him at his expense,
making a sot of his self worse than a brute
beast ? What do you think of that, Miss
Compton, in a man as boasted of your acquaintance
once on a day ?'

I think it is the saddest, most terrible
story I have ever known,' said Iris, with a

shudder and eyes full of grief and horror.
 But will it mend the wrongs for you to be so
reckless ?'

I ain't doing anything so far amiss,' asserted
Lady Thwaite sullenly; ' I have only
helped myself to Bill Rogers's best suit for a
change and a bit of a lark in my dull life.
Being a lady, even when a woman can do as
she likes, and ain't yoked to a gentleman, or
bothered by gentlefolks' notice, don't turn out
the fun it promised. Life at Hawley Scrub
were a deal livelier and fuller of things
happening. Bill won't heed my making free
with his clothes  even his best groom's suit ;
he ain't an unfriendly chap, except that he's
stuck up A\ith solemn notions of duty, and
full of starch of manners, and nonsense. If
it had been anybody save you, miss, I would
have challenged him or her to deny that I set
off a groom's livery,' insisted Lady Thwaite,
with a jaunty pose of her fine figure and
handsome face. ' I'm cock-sure you never
would have snowed me from a man, if
summit had not possessed you to stare right
into my face. It ain't the first time I've
guise in men's clothes, though I did it for a
purpose then, and I did not try it on in broad

daylight before. Women has done it sometimes,
Miss Compton, you know, and run off
to sea or to the wars before the trick was discovered
; but there ain't no such luck in store
for me, and this ain't the right rig, or a very
good fit neither. Bill ain't my build, I'm
nearer Will's.'

She stopped abruptly. She had been running
on in flippant chatter, while Iris stood
looking at her in piteous wonder. Now when
the truant turned her head aside, Iris spoke
again still more firmly.

 I believe you are wearing this coat to-day
for a purpose. Lady Thwaite. It cannot be a
good purpose. I beseech you to stop before
it is too late.'

There ain't no use in stopping,' said
Honor doggedly. ' You cannot prevent me
doing my will. But I'll tell you the truth of
my own accord, since you seem to care what
becomes of me, which others as might, don't
no longer. He's been at home and asleep all
the morning, and he'll get up as cross as a
bear afore he goes off again. But I've stole
a march upon him,' with a shade of triumph
and cunning in her tone. ' He forgot his self
the last time we had words  which were no

farther gone than late last night, and swore
he would lock me up if I went near Guilds'
folk again. It were Satan reproving sin, after
the company he has been keeping. I will see
every Guild  man and woman  if I like, for
the sake of one as bore the name and worshipped
the ground I trod on, instead of taking
me up and casting me down, and being ashamed
of me like a cursed fine gentleman, for all he
pretended to be one of the people. I was
afeard he might be about by this time and seeme
from his winder, or the terrace, and give
chase, and demean his self to lift his hand to a
woman, though I don't take no pride in belonging
to the weaker sex. I ain't entitled to. I'm
as strong as most men, but AVill is more than
my match. So I borrowed Bill's toggery
without leave, and now I am bound either for
Guilds' cottage, where they'll take me in
however I like to come, and make me as bad
as themselves, I dare say  but they will not
look down on me ; or maybe I'll go to
Hawley Scrub, as the fancy takes me. I were
always a fanciful lass if you'll believe me.
Father's from home over at Birkett ; but the
pond's there where Will and me first set eyes
on each other, after I had drawer him out.

It will take me in too, never fear, and make
no words about it, and there will be none to
pull me out. What do you say to that, Miss
Compton ?' with a more desperate gleam in
her grey eyes.

I say *' never," Honor,' cried Iris, tightening
her clasp on the woman with the heaving
breast under the man's coat. ' What ! you
have still some feeling for your husband. I
believe you love him in your inmost soul, and
you would lay that on him  his and your
shame, with a separation worse than if you
where dead ? Or you would fling your death
at his door and bring the crime of murder to
sit on his pillow. I would rather have suffered
the cruellest injury, I would sooner have
died a thousand innocent deaths in obedience
to God's summons  not by rushing into His
presence uncalled for and unprepared. Oh !
woman, how could you think for an instant of
doing such wrong ?'

Honor flinched at the cry, her flashing eyes
fell, her hand shook, she writhed uneasily in
Iris's hold.

Don't be so hard on me, Miss Compton,'
she protested ; ' I ain't given to thinking. I
was wild with him and myself, and I just

did the first thing that came into my head.
But I didn't mean to hurt him like that.
What can I do ? It is past help now,' she
said, with returning recklessness. ' I'll go
my ways where nobody will ever find me, and
nobody will know whether I'm dead or alive,
and, what's more, nobody will care, unless it
may be father, in a sort.'

That is not true,' said Iris. ' I should
care ; Sir William would care most of all. He
did care for you, and chose you and went out
of his place to marry you. I need not fear to
fiend you by saying it, for everybody knows
it, you among the rest ; and it should soften
instead of hardening your heart, and make
you proud instead of angry. I dare say you
have tried him, though you might not always
know it or mean it, and he has tried you.
But though there is strife between you and
miserable wrong and trouble, there is not the
worst so that neither can forgive and forget 
so that you may not go back to him and both
think better of it and be happy yet,' pled Iris,
with the great tenderness and charity which
have in them something of the divine.

Lady Thwaite's heart melted in its perversity,
and it was with a groan she said,

flinging down the whip and striking her
hands together :

I can't  I can't. Happiness ain't for him
and me. I aren't face him like this ; he's
mad now when he's roused. I put on Bill
Rogers's clothes half for a lark, half to finish
our misery somehow. You do be good and
kind, but I have seen how you looked when
you snowed me. You belong to the gentlefolks,
and Will is part gentleman in spite of
himself. I can tell now how he'll take it. I'll
not witness his hate and disgust  that is what
it has come to  neither will I ax him to forgive
me ; it ain't in me. I can't go back.'

Yes, you can ; for his sake if not for your
own. It is his and your last chance; I am
sure of it. I will go back with you. I am
not frightened for his anger. We are not far
from Whitehills, and I shall still get home
to Lambford without keeping grandmamma
waiting.'

The brave soul made a hasty little practical
calculation, which was by no means uncalled
for.

Lady Thwaite was still more shaken in her
mind by Miss Compton s magnanimous offer.
Little as Honor knew, she was sensible, not

only that Iris Compton was in the deepest
earnest, but that she must feel convinced the
fate, for life and death, of two of her fellow-mortals
hung in the balance, before she made
the proposal.

It would make a sight of difference,'
Honor allowed hesitatingly, ' if the likes of
you showed you didn't mind being seen with
me in what was either a poor bit of a frolic,
or a fit of moon-struck madness, I can't
rightly tell which it were myself. If you did
me the honour  I know it is an honour,
though I bent mannerly  of bearing me
company, and calling at Whitehills. he might
chancre his tune, for I know he thought a deal
of you, though you gave him the sack  served
him right !' exclaimed Honor hotly. ' What
call had he to even his self to you, vrho weren't
his price at no hand ? He were like me and
my folk  he could tell that when he came to
his senses ; and he never let your name pass
his lips save once after he drew up with me.
But it do seem mean like to let you, as is a
real lady, lower yourself for them that ain't
worth it.'

Lady Thwaite still hung back, her better
nature reasserting itself

Never mind me ; I am not lowering myself:
and you are worth  every human creature is
worth  oh ! how infinitely more in God's
sight !' urged Iris, fearing the loss of the
advantage she had gained. ' Come, Lady
Thwaite,' she went on, as if she were impatient
to go, ' we have no time to spare.
You can understand that I must not keep
Lady Termor waiting dinner.'

And you are in a mighty haste in case
anybody should come along the road and
light on we two, and me in a man's clothes,'
said Lady Thwaite a little sarcastically, even
while she turned and walked with a curious
mixture of affront, humility, and pettishness
beside Iris.

I confess I am,' said Iris frankly ; and
her candour was another point in favour of
her suit.

I'll tell you what we'll do, miss,' said
Lady Thwaite more briskly, when they had
gone a little way. ' If my master ain't about,
we'll go round by one of them side doors, or
by one of them ground-floor winders as is
often left open handy, and I'll slip in, and
nobody will be the wiser. If Bill have missed
his best clothes, he won't peach on me, I

know, and I'll promise you afore we part,
Miss Compton, I'll not go a-larking no more-i'll
try, as sure as death I'll try, to stay more
at home, though a great empty house, and a
man brought home like a loo: or a bull of
Bashan ain't much of an inducement to keep
house, which I weren't used to, and didn't
pretend to ; and he snowed it before he
married me. But I'll not provoke him more
than I can help, and maybe he'll grow steadier
with the summer, and the fishing, and the
shooting season all coming on.'

I hope it with all my heart,' said Iris
fervently; but she stopped short at the same
time, and stood with her fine little head held
up. ' If I go with you, Lady Thwaite, you
shan't steal into your husband's house, by a
back door or an open window, like a thief ora
dog. You'll go in by the principal entrance
and the hall, in the most open way ; and
you'll walk straight to Sir William if he is at
home. I shall be at your elbow to bear you
out in your tale, or-to speak for you, if you
won't or can't do it for yourself It is not
much you will have to say. " I went out on
a foolish frolic because I was very unhappy,
too unhappy to know well what I was about;

VOL. II. 34

but I soon found how silly and wrong I had
been. I have come back at once to tell you
all about it, if you will listen to me, and to
ask you to pardon me, for we all need pardon,
erring as we do every hour of our lives."
Surely that is not very hard to say ?'

Honor bit her lips, and plucked at the
buttons on her coat, but she made no further
opposition.

The strange couple walked quickly in the
direction of Whitehills. They were fortunate
in meeting few wayfarers ; none recognised
Lady Thwaite in her masquerade. Of those
who guessed Iris's identity nobody was disengaged
or sharp enough to think it odd that
Miss Compton should walk with a groom
behind her. For Honor fell a pace or two
back when the first two-legged animal came
in sight, and determinedly kept the second
rank till the women reached their destination.

BEAUTY AT THE FEET OF THE BEAST.

It was in such circumstances that Iris entered
the gieat gates of Whitehills again. She was
under too severe a strain, too far carried out
of herself, to notice, as Colonel Bell and his
companions had been quick to observe, the
change  the gradual but sure growth of dilapidation,
of indifference and neglect, which
would soon amount to declared war against
every manifestation of the orderly and beautiful.
In the whole history of Whitehills,
stretching back to the norman invasions, a
more apparently ill-matched pair never drew
near the manor-house  the slender gentlewoman
with the child-like, flower-like face, in
her quiet grey serge walking dress, the vision
of whom, including her perfect womanly kindness,
had once burst like a revelation on Sir
William, and the groom, who looked so odd

342

and incongruous from the moment lie drew
back and drooped his head with something of
a hang-dog air.

The hall-door stood open ; Iris went in,
and paused for her companion to take the
lead.

You must show the way in your own
house, Lady Thwaite.'

Thus spurred on, however gently, Honor
started forward with a muttered, ' As
I'm in for it, the sooner it's over the
better.' She made a dash through a side
passage and turned the handle of a closed
door. It was that of the comfortless, un-homely
room which she had made the living-room
of herself and her husband.

Iris had no time or power to make comparisons.
Yet she received a general impression
of the shabbiness and sluttishness of the
room, contrasted as it was in the background
of her imagination with the spacious width
and old gentle breeding of the entrance hall,
the library, and the drawing-room  with its
broad and deep lights and shadows, its Sir
Joshuass, its Flemish carved chimney-piece.

Sir William was sitting lolling and smoking
over the unremoved relics of a meal which

had been breakfast and dinner in one. His
features were swollen and blurred, his fine
eyes like burnt-out fires ; yet he did not look
so much bloated as ghastly with the fierce
pursuit of fiery oblivion and an untimely
end. He stared in a puzzled, stupid way at
the semblance of Bill Rogers, who was not
Bill, but who else he was Sir william could
not at the moment tell. And when he looked
past the groom and recognised Iris Compton
standing there, he started to his feet, pulled
the pipe from his mouth and stared mildly,
with a recoil like that of a man who sees a
visitant from another world and cannot bear
the unnatural contact, but is ready to cry as of
old, ' Depart from me, for I am a sinful man.'

Then Iris spoke for Lady Thwaite almost
word for word as the girl had dictated, except
that she had to ?ay one sentence on her own
behalf, to account for her presence there :

I have come with Lady Thwaite, Sir
William  I trust you will forgive the intrusion
3' as she spoke she caught Honor again by
the sleeve, and letting her hand slip down,
clasped in her slim white fingers the brown
fist already clenched in swelling mortification
and rising wrath.

His brow grew black, as full intelligence
returned to him.

Did she  that creature aping a man  dare
to ask you to plead for her?' he growled out,

' No, Sir William. I met your wife by
chance; I knew her even in that absurd dress,
and hailed her. She and I were old friends. I
begged her to give up a foolish  it might be a
fatal adventure. I offered to 2:0 back with her
and speak to you. It was all my doing,' said
Iris steadily.

Then, Miss Compton he cried, flinging
out his hand as if to part the two, ' you are
nigh as idiotic as she is. Why don't Lady
Fermor take care of you, since you can't look
after yourself? Do you know what that
woman there has been doing, and what sort
she is, when you stand there clasping hands
with her? Do you know what this house has
grown to? What I am? What I was before
I ever saw you? a low dog of a drunken,
riotous soldier under sentence of the lash like
the brute I was and am.'

Iris became as pale as death, but she did
not move. It was Lady Thwaite who
snatched her hand away and darted forward,
crying out :

Will, you shall never belie and shame
yourself in my hearing, and I not contradict
you, look on me as you may. What although
the pig-headed fools wanted to lash you, it
was them as were the brutes, and not you.'
She was without her hat, and her abundant
hair, which had been tucked up in its crown,
had fallen down, her cheeks were flushed, her
eyes sparkling, her white teeth showing. She
looked no longer like the mockery of a man,
but like a beautiful wild Amazon. Before he
knew what she was about, she had thrown
herself upon his neck, and dragged down his
collar. ' See, Miss Compton, if that ain't the
scar of a brave soldier as fought his country's
battles, and deserved more from her than he
ever got. And there is the mark of a bullet
wound in his breast as took a close shave of
his lungs, and of another sword-cut across his
arm, which he had when he was carrying out
wounded men under fire. Though the authorities
had done what they wanted, and scored
his young back dth base lashes, I know you'll
never think they could have scored out them
honourable marks, as he'll bear to the day of
his death.'

Hold off, Honor ! shut up, woman ! what

have you to do with me and my scratches?'
exclaimed Sir William hoarsely, as he shook
himself free, but the voice was less strident,
the action less violent. There was relenting
in his impatience and confusion in his
face.

Yes, I know said Iris, and though her
voice shook, the tone was yet clear and sweet.
Whatever you two have come through, or
done, however low you have been brought, he
has been a gallant soldier, a brave and true
man, and you are a generous woman. Oh!
then  then, why will you die ?' she broke down
a little, and in spite of herself the tears
began to stream from her eyes, so that she put
tip her hands to hide them.

Don't, miss  oh, don't !' implored Lady
Thwaite.

'For mercy's sake don't, Miss Compton!'
besought Sir William. ' She ought not to
have brought you here. She does not always
know what she is doing, poor wretch, anymore
than I do myself We must get you
out of this here at once. Don't cry for the
like of us.'

And what though I cried my eyes out?'
protested Iris indignantly and despairingly,

letting her hands fall from her wet face 
what would it matter ? a poor, weak, selfish
girl like me? Do you not believe I would
do anything  anything in the world, that I
would kneel down to you and beg you to
suffer yourselves to be saved, if that would do
any good? But to think that the wisdom of
all the ao;es has come down to enlighten us,
and the blood of the Holiest has been shed to
purify us, and we may have God if we will
and heaven for the asking, and we will not !
AVe may rise above our dull, miserable selves,
and our evil companions and sin stained
dwellings to the home and the company of our
Maker, and Father, and Candour, and of the
angels and all the just and gentle who ever
breathed, and struggled, and conquered before
us. But we turn our backs and choose to
sink into even deeper defilement, till we perish
here, whatever Divine pity may do for us
yonder. Oh ! it is pitiable, terrible I God
have mercy on our horrible ingratitude, stubbornness,
and unbelief!' She stood wrinoinof
her hands in the bitterness of her heart,
associating herself with her hearers, reproaching
herself as if she were the greatest sinner
of all.

Lady Thwaite drew aside, touched, tamed,
trembling a little as if she were under the
influence of a half comprehended spell. But
Sir William was shaken to the very centre of
his moral being. He too stood silent for a
few seconds opposite Iris, with his head bent,
his arms hanging down, and the sweat-drops
gathering on his forehead. Then he spoke low
but distinctly in spite of the thrill and vibration
of great agitation.

Miss Compton, I gave a promise to my
sister Jen, the bravest, faithfulness woman that
ever lived, save one like her. My sister was
but a poor woman who had done for me all
my life. She was lying on her dying bed,
dying of her last hard fight to serve me. She
asked but one favour, which I was fain to
grant, that I should never again touch the
drink which took away my wits. You know
what my word has been worth; but if you
will take it at its lowest value, I'll give it
once more, and God help me to keep it ! I
am aware of what I am saying and doing, and
I know that I have fallen back to the mouth
of the pit, that I have raised anew a devil
and clothed it with my very flesh so that it
can thirst and crave, and madden, and sicken

me, to loose my grip. But if there is any of
the man left in me, if God has not forsaken
me utterly, I'll rise and throttle my enemy,
thinking of your tears and prayers.'

Think of something a whole earth and
heaven higher,' she cried; 'think of God on
the blood-stained cross, and Man on the great
white throne.'

I was taught the story when I was a little
chap by Jen,' he said.  I was not bred an
ioTiorant heathen, the more suit and shame
to me. But, Miss Compton, a saint may help
a sinner to read between the lines of his Bible
and understand his Maker's ways, so the
thought of you may help me. As for poor
Honor there, she was never a woman given
over to drink as I have been. K I led you to
think it of her I deceived you unknowingly.
My head is in a whirl and I was never a
specified  not great at words even when my
heart was in my mouth. I want you to hear
me say before her that I believe I have had
little patience with her from the beginning.
I am sure I was mortal hard upon her after I
took to drink again.'

That's enough. Will, more than enough,'
cried Honor passionately.  I hate to hear

you accusing of yourself  I won't have it.
You may do it to me, but not to another. And
you know I ain't all that I should be myself;
I ain't good as gold like her there  every inch
of her.'

 Then we must clear her out of this the
first thing, that will be better than blessing
her for entering our doors,' he said, leaving the
room.

The moment Iris's errand was done and the
strain on her relaxed, though she was convinced
she had acted rightly, and felt humbly
thankful that she had done it, she began to
realize the awkwardness of the situation,
standing in that room, beside the strange
woman shrinking now in the man's clothes
she had borrowed, even without the account
to be rendered to Lady Fermor which stared
Iris in the face all the time. She was sensible
Sir William was right, and that she should begone.


Lady Thwaite would have asked Iris to take
some refreshment, but the hostess did not
know how to make the request, at such a time,
to such a guest. With a quick perception of
the difficulty, Iris went to the table, took up a
biscuit, and began to eat. ' I had luncheon at

the Rectory, but I am too late for afternoon
tea at home. No, thanks; you must not get
fresh tea or coffee for me, Lady Thwaite ; this
biscuit will do perfectly. I must go at once,
to be in time for dinner.'

In the meantime the spring mist had so
condensed as to be falling down in drizzling
rain.

I don't mind it, I assure you,' Iris asserted.
I have an umbrella ; I am accustomed to be
out in wet weather, and it does not hurt me.
We are quite near.' She hardly knew what
she was saying.

Sir William came back at that moment to
tell her he had ordered the carriage, and Bill
Rogers would see her home. He did not offer
her either his escort or his wife's. When it
came to that, at the mention of Bill, whom she
had personified, Lady Thwaite had just enough
perception to turn scarlet, and make a quick
retreat to avoid meeting her double, in her
husband's and Miss Compton's presence, or
lest any of the other servants should catch a
glimpse of her ladyship in her odd garments
before their master and the first ' real lady '
who had crossed the threshold since its mistress
came to Whitehills.

Sir William went with Iris to the hall-door.
Miss Compton,' he said, ' whatever may come
of this, it ain't words that can make a fit acknowledgment
for what you've sought to do
to-day; words are idle. Only God can reward
you, though He may well have forsaken me,
and He may not listen even when I call down
blessings on your head.'

God never forsakes,' she said. ' A mother
may forget her child hut He will not forsake.
God bless you and Honor, your wife,
Sir William!'

He hesitated whether to leave Bill, as beyond
comparison the worthier of the two men, to
put her into the carriage; but she ended the
doubt, which she had not guessed, by holding
out her hand to Sir William.

She drove away in the clouding-over afternoon,
as she had disappeared in the gathering
darkness on the first evening that he had
heard of her existence  the polar star of his
life, which had come so near and yet gone sofar
from him ; the star that was fire, not water,
which, if he could repent enough to be converted
and turn from the error of his ways so
as to reach heaven at last, might yet shine
down upon him from the height of glory.

Something of the glory of self-forgetfulness
and self-sacrifice was still kindling up Iris's
little face, though it blanched visibly every
moment before the anticipated encounter with
Lady Fermor ; something of the glow of that
noblest enthusiasm which for the time breaks
down social barriers was yet bracing her nerves
and warming; her heart, when she alighted
before the hall door at Lambford, and stood a
moment to thank Bill. ' You are William, our
little housemaid's brother,' she said brightly.
Jenny is a good girl and a good servant, and
so I am sure are you. Such servants are
beyond price. Let me thank you again, and
say how sorry I am for bringing you out and
getting you wet.'

Bill routed low like an ancient squire.
'You have nothing to thank me for, miss,' he
managed to say. ' It would have been a rare
pleasure to sit on the box, with such as you
inside, though it had been raining cats and
dogs, which it is only a spring shower that
don't hurt a bit. But if I might make bold
and take the liberty, I would thank you, miss,
and so would everybody as cares for as good
a master as ever lived, and nobody's enemy
but his own, to this day; and a mistress that

ain't anything like right-down vicious, bless
you, only restless and full of jibbing and bolting,
because she weren't ever broken in or
trained to go in harness. If you will forgive
me, miss, for saying so much, since Jenny has
told me the kind young lady you are, you may
care to hear what a comfort it is to a stupid
block as ain't much good, to find the likes of
you showing mercy and holding out your
hand to his betters.'

Iris did not preach what she would not practise.
She carried the head that was beginning
to ache, and the heart to flutter, and the little
white face where they would meet no pity
from Lady Fermor.

The old woman, in her shawls and wraps,
was already in the dining-room, sitting at the
head of the table, though the second dinner-bell
had not rung. She had been fuming over
Iris's unusually prolonged absence, and had
stolen a march upon her in order to convict
her of being too late. Lady Fermor was in
an additional wrath with the cook for not
having the dinner ready before the appointed
hour. ' Good heavens, child ! where have you
been?' she demanded angrily. ' I thought
you had run away, and, upon my word, you

look like it ; only she added cynically, regardless
of the fact that the cut she was about
to give ought to have wounded herself first,
penetrating through the thick coarse skin till
it reached a vital part, ' when the members of
our family run away they are not like the lost
halfpenny  they never come back again.*

I am very sorry I have made you anxious,
grand mamma. I am glad you have not waited
for me began Iris a little breathlessly.

If you think I was anxious about your
white kitten's face you are very much mistaken.
I was only anxious for our credit, which, being
brittle ware, needs to be carefully handled.
No, I have not waited for you; why should I?
But where have you been dawdling?. Outwith
it. A lad would have spoken at once,
and though he had been at more mischief, at
least it would have been in manly scrapes, not
wretched girlish trifling and pottering.'

I was at Whitehills.'

At Whitehills ! Are you crazy T cried
Lady Fermor incredulously.

Xo. I went there with Lady Thwaite.'

Lady Thwaite ! What ! has she returned ?
I thought she was still in Rome. And what
the dickens did she mean by carrying you

VOL. 11. 35

there? To cloak her own hypocrisy and
greed in going into low company. Of course,
I should have forbidden it if anybody had
thought it worth while to ask my leave. It
was the height of impertinence in Lady
Thwaite to take you anywhere without getting
my consent. Iris, you are even sillier and
more stupid than I could have imagined you.
I must bestir myself in my old age and tie you
to my apron strings

'I was not with that Lady Thivaite,' said Iris,
with dry lips ;  not with your Lady Thwaite,
Sir John's widow ; she has not come home
that I know of. I was with Sir William's
wife.'

Girl !' exclaimed Lady Fermor, striking
the table with her closed hand, and said no
more.

Grandmamma, I could not help it. I met
her as I was coming home from the Rectory.
I knew her though she was in man's clothes 
I am sorry to say  in her groom's clothes. I
had to stop her. She admitted two things 
she was going to the Guilds  I don't know if
you remember them ; they are the worst family
in the parish, and I had just heard the Actons
say that the very worst Guild of all, the man

Sir William Thwaite threatens to bring before
the justices, lias been boasting in the village
that he could get Lady Thwaite to come to
him at any place, at any hour, by a wag of his
finger, because she was once to have married
his brother Hughie, and because she has set
herself against her husband. She was either
going to the Guilds to compromise herself beyond
redemption, or she would have drowned
herself in the pond at Hawley Scrub. I could
not walk past and let her go on to sin, or turn
aside to die. You know I could not, if it was
possible for me to help her. I got her to return
home with me, and I think that she and Sir
William have made up their quarrel, and may
do better yet. He sent the carriage home with
me. That is all.'

All ! I should say it was,' gasped Lady
Fermor in one of the furies which were restrained
perforce, and were so much more
terrible for their restraint, because they contended
with the weakness of age, and made
her look like a devil-possessed mummy gnashing
her teeth, but unable to do more. ' How
dare you come to me with such a vile story ?
What had you to do with these people, unless,
indeed, that you were at the bottom of all this

352

mischief and misery? Like the wilful, insolent
chit you were, you drove the fellow to a low
barbarian of a wife, and to drink. You lost
your one chance ; you made me the laughingstock
of the neighbourhood, and I bore it without
lifting my hand to strike you, or turn you
from my doors. As if that were not enough,
and too much for my poor patience, you go
and make friends with this creature of the
highways and hedges. You are not deterred
from meeting her, like the disgrace to her sex
that she is, in man's clothes; and where any
other girl of your rank who made any pretence
to delicacy  to common decency, would
have felt shocked, or pretended it at least, and
would have crossed to the other side of the
road, and looked in the air or on the ground
till the woman passed by, you chose to be
hail-fellow-well-met with her.' Lady Fermor
paused for a moment exhausted.

Iris tried to strike in:

I knew her when I was a little girl. It
was very foolish and wrong of her to put
on men's clothes. I was shocked ; but Nanny
Hollies once wore her younger brother's clothes,
and walked through the village with Maudie.
Mr. Hollies was not told, but her mother did

noting save laugh, and you only called
Nanny a pickle of a girl,' Iris ventured wistfully
to remind her grandmother.

Nanny Hollies was not a married woman,
and her brother's clothes were different from
a groom's,' said Lady Fermor truly enough in
her sternness. ' I hope you are not such
an utter imbecile as to fail to see that there
is one law for a family like the Hollises and
another for the scum of the earth. But
you didn't rush off and hide your face ; you
turned and went with the depraved gipsy to
the wretched man whom she had inveigled,
who had wanted you, whom you had sent to
his ruin.'

It was to save her and him from the last
sin and misery,' urged Iris, forgetting the
prohibition to cast pearls before swine. ' If I
had anything to do with their wretchedness, I
was the more bound to aid them.'

Child, I sometimes wonder whether you
have been sent to torment me before my time,
till I am beside myself, like some miserable
annoyance which I could have brushed aside
without a thought when I was young and
strong ; whether you speak and act simply
for the purpose of exasperating me ; or

whether it is all done out of pure fatuousness
of mind. I can tell you that you have enough
to do to look after yourself, without inviting
all the vagabonds and blackguards in the
country to hang on by your skirts. Do you
know what the thing that pious puritans and
ninnies call " a good name " means ? Do you
know what it is worth in the eyes of the
fools and hypocrites of this world ? Are you
aware that you have come into the world
with a smirched shred of a name, in spite
of your airs and scruples  though you seem
to have cast aside the last of your detestable
goody-goodness ? Why, the women of your
family who lived before you, and were as
strong drink to your milk-and-water, played
away your good name before you were born.
They had something for their play ; they
enjoyed life while it lasted ; but you are only
fit to clutch your rag and make the most of it.
I have told you it was not to be trifled with,
and that it was little I could do for you
or your mother before you  so little that,
though she was a harmless fool, I was fain to
dispose of her to the first scamp, with the
show of a good rental, who would take her off
my hands. What you might call a goodman

would not have ventured near her, or
had a gift of her, any more than he would
have of you

'Oh! grand mamma, for mercy's sake don't
say such things !' implored Iris, putting her
hands upon her ears.

But the old woman caught the hands and
pulled them down.

 You shall eat of the tree of the knowledge
of evil, as your flourishing friend the
Rector would call it, though it should set
your teeth on edge, if that is the only
thing to bring you to your senses and humble
you. Who takes the trouble to separate
between the girl and the people she has
come of, who have brought her up, with
small reward for their pains, I must say?
Ask Tom Mildmay's wife what she thinks
of you, and whether she would inT.te you
to pay her a visit en famille though her boys
are still in petticoats and her girls in short
frocks and pinafores. Was it for such a
one, whose name is as shaky as a tottering
tree, whose fame has been breathed upon,
though she herself may creep about as if
she were begging folk's pardon, and getting
up good deeds  I suppose as a kind of

sacrifice to atone for her peoples free treatment
of the decalogue  I say was it for the
like of her to go within a mile of Sir William
Thwaite, with his randy beggar wife, and
their disreputable house and doings ? Mrs.
Hollies  even Nanny and Maudie, might go
for their amusement, and laugh themselves
out of the adventure. The last are well-known
to be girls of spirit, besides they have
no clog at their heels; they are not spotted.
Mrs. Acton and the girl Lucy, or any other
clergyman's wife and daughter, might hand
in tracts  it is their business  wipe the dust
from their feet, and nothing be thought or
said. But for you, girl ! even I can hardly
believe that you went from any other motive
than a secret hankering after the miserable
fellow you thought fit to reject last year.
There, that is the bell at last. It ought
to have rung half an hour ago, and I'll
pay out Fordham and the rest for it. I'm
old, and Termor is a wreck ; but I am not
come to the pass of being either neglected or
bullied by my servants, or, for that matter,
by my grand daughter. You may stay upstairs
and have your dinner sent to you.
Your company gives me little pleasure at

any time, and I am not forced to bear it
when you have made it intolerable to me. If
starving on bread and water would be likely
to do you any good, you may be sure I
should try it ; but I know to my cost the
conceit and self-assurance of young people
in this generation, and that if you have
not stout stomachs, you have the capacity
of mules for sticking to your point. I don't
mean to give you the consolation of making
yourself a martyr at my expense. Besides,
I'm a good grandmother, Miss Compton
with another snarl under an ugly grin ; ' I
don't wish to set servants and people talking
of you, so long as I can prevent it, for when
all is said and done, I dare say you will
go the way of those who came before you.
It is in the blood. Your day of temptation
and downfall will dawn, if it is not hovering
over you already. But come when it may,
it can only be a half-and-half, whimpering,
sinning and repenting, altogether contemptible
day, not to be compared to some I have
seen, when men and women sinned *' with
a cart-rope," as your friend the Rector would
tell you, with a dash and a swing which
you will never know.'

With this hideous, scornful prophecy, Iris, 1

too crushed and aghast almost to be sensible
of her deliverance, was at liberty to flee from
her accuser.

THE ANGEL OF DEATH SMITES TWICE.

While Sir "William Thwaite was still under
the constraining influence of Iris Compton's
appeal, a thought struck him.

Why should we not leave this place, my
lass ?' he said, addressing Honor, while the
two sat together, hot with excitement, yet
shivering with momentary reaction, physically
wretched and uncomfortable, shy,
affronted, neither united nor disunited, on
the evening of the day that Iris had been
to Whitehills. ' Why should we not get rid
of Whitehills ?' He looked round him with
more of loathing disgust than sad yearning 
the last was for the woods and fields, the
blue horizon which had grown familiar to him,
the far-reaching yet often pale dim sky.
It's little good we've been and done here.
We'll go to some new land, such as I've

read of, as rude as its colonists ; we'll break
it and ourselves in together. We'll hold
it against the wild beasts and the wild
men, till we've tamed them and ourselves 
which is like to be the harder job,' he ended
with a heavy sigh.

Oh ! shall we. Will ?' cried Honor, with
the first cry of real joy and eagerness which
she had uttered for many a day. ' That
will be grand  a life worth living. That
will be a thousand times better than shooting
and hooking harmless beasts and birds and
fishes here. I had a notion of the kind when
father and I were going to 'Merica  an out-of-the-way
bit I think they called Kansas. But
father's nigh done, and young Abe and me,
we didn't sort together over-well when
he was at home. I doubted he would not
care for the hills and plains and woods ;
he would mind a deal more trying his luck at
the diggings, or even at the cards which
Eastham folk play in houses like this, and
in hovels like ours at Hawley Scrub, you
know, Will, from the time the players can
hold the pasteboard. But I'll work and dig,
and plant and build, as well as shoot with
you, and be your fit mate. I can kindle

a fire and boil a kettle, and bake and roast,
and Trash and dry. and rough-darn for you,
and you'll want nought else out there. Well
leave books and fine manners behind us.'

So be it,' he said, after an instant's pause,
while he looked a little drearily into the fire.

And you'll never more regret them, Will,'
she pressed him with hungry eyes  'you'll
never fiet after them, or think it would
have been better if you had snowed how
to keep still an idle gentleman among fine
gentlemen and ladies in England. You
mio:ht have done it without crossings the seas,
without setting your hand to work or going
out with your gun to fill the pot and keep
you and me fi'om starving  instead of filling a
bag with useless hares and birds to gift
away, or sell in the shop, with nigh as much
secrecy as father has been wont to sell his
filched game  without risk, without hardship,
which is fine for a change, without me.'

It will be for you to keep me from fretting,
Honor,' he tried to say more lightly  'to
make me feel that what is, is best  to teach
me, as I'm sure you will, that I could never
do without you ;' and she was satisfied for the
moment.

So it soon came to be roughly understood
that Sir William had pulled up sufficiently to
decree that the saturnalia should come to
an end, so far as the place was concerned,
at least. Sir William would have sold White-hills,
had it been in his power ; as it was,
the house was to be let. He and Lady Thwaite
were going away  not to the Continent to
retrench, not to German baths to drink mineral
waters, not to Monte Carlo to play  but to
the wilds of America, in company with old
Abe Smith, where the whole party would
doubtless soon sink into the gulphs of oblivion
provided for the lower class of sinners. And
if the couple did not send home an heir
in the course of years, Whitehills would pass
into the Court of Chancery, to be stranded
there till a fresh sprout, refined or rude, from
the family tree of the Thwaites could spring
up.

Sir William had severed himself from the
squirearchy some time before, so that their
interest in him had begun to die out, after the
first burst of reprobation, though they still
felt a concern for Whitehills, which he was
not going to carry away with him. Besides,
the attention of the neighbourhood was drawn

to another quarter at the time, by the additional
news that old Lord Fermor was
dying at last. He had been far longer dead
to the world than Sir William Thwaite had
been ; but the peer had this claim, that he had
been one of themselves from first to last, and
that his career fifty years before had been
notably before a greater public  not much to
its edification. Neither was it to the edification
of Eastham that so many stories of him
were revived as he lay on his deathbed, and
even found their way into the newspapers
again, until poor Iris Compton dreaded to cut
one open, and looked fearfully at the first
words of every local paragraph. She had a
distressed consciousness that her neighbours
of every degree pushed certain journals out of
sight whenever she happened to come across
the papers  in the village post-office, thrown
down on a carriage cushion, spread out on a
Knotley shop-counter.

Lady Fermor had always been her husband's
head nurse in his serious attacks of illness,
and she continued punctual in her attendance
on him till death released her from her post.
For the last day and night she never quitted
his bedroom. Iris was not permitted to enter,

but all who came and went from the serai-darkness
and the muffled sounds, into daylight
and natural noise, appeared with disturbed or
scared faces. Even Soames, in her reticence
and composure, broke down a little, and murmured
she wondered Lady Fermor could stand
it. She did not think she herself could  not
though it were for a pension  Soames's one
idea of a bribe.

The incident leaked out from other sources
that Lord Fermor, who was pronounced unconscious,
while he retained his powers of
speech, had been calling for his wife, with
hardly an interval of silence, throughout his
protracted death - struggle. Sometimes he
spoke in a voice of piteous entreaty, sometimes
of abject terror, sometimes of hoarse
reproach, sometimes of sharp summons. But
however the tones might vary, there was
never an alteration in the name, it was always
that of his master-spirit, his temptress, the
curse of his life.

She kept answering in her loud, bold voice.
At first she said, ' I'm here, Fermor,' as if she
would rouse him to the fact of her presence.
Then she cried, ' I'm coming, I'm coming,
Fermor.' At last she fell into ' I'll follow ;

never doubt, I'll follow, Fervors with a kind
of fierce impatience and determination ringing
out in reply to the feeble call. When all was
still, Lady Termor came downstairs with a
face almost as pinched and grey as the face in
the room above, but making no other sign.

Iris looked at her grandmother with
generous, tender longing. Could the stout
heart have gone through the awful ordeal
without being melted ? Would not the aged
new-made widow suffer a word of sympathy
from one of her last descendants, the sole
descendant of him who was gone ?

The Eector, who had been waiting in the
house, had followed Lady Fermor downstairs.
He advanced and said :

My dear and venerable friend, cur dear
departed friend has left us full of years '  he
had almost added ' and full of honours '  but
stopped in time, a little awkwardly. ' He has
been long spared to us ; we must not refuse to
give him up, though our human hearts may
bleed. We look to you  the greatest sufferer
of us all  for an example of fortitude. Dear
Lady Fermor, he is not lost, but gone before.
You must not give way.'

She looked at the speaker with the self-vol.

II. 36

command that had never faltered, and a supercilious
expression, as if she were tempted to
say, ' Don't I know all that already ? Can't
I tell beforehand what you and your cloth are
prepared to whisper into my ear ?' But when
she opened her mouth it was to make another
remark :

When my lord was at his best, he was a
man, and not a milksop,' she said, with
emphasis. Then she went on in a lower key,
It would have been better for him to have
been taken away before he became a burden to
himself and others.' With the next breath
she observed briskly to her speechless coadjutor,
' Come, we have a great deal of business
on our hands. I sent last night for Metcalf,'
naming the family lawyer. ' Has he come or
written ? Tom Mildmay  I beg his pardon
the present Lord Termor must be telegraphed
for. The funeral arrangements ought
to be made immediately.'

The dowager Lady Fermor gave no thought
to rest or seclusion. The world had always
ranked with her, if not before, certainly immediately
after, the flesh and the devil. The
world was of signal importance to her still,
and she had been fond of business in her

prime. Even in its grimes aspect, and under
the burden of her years, she looked to it for
solace and abstraction.

She must miss and mourn for him in her
own way,' Iris said to herself slowly.

She was not wanted in the busy days which
followed. She wandered away by herself, or
sat seeking to recall the few kindnesses her
grandfather had shown her. With a little
hesitation, lest her grandmother should object
to the gentle tribute, Iris gathered and
arranged the flowers which were to lie on his
bed and on his coffin, as the last dutiful
service she could render him.

Lady Fermor would not be persuaded to
remain away from the funeral. She tottered
on Iris's arm by choice from the mourning-coach
to the church, and then to the mouth of
the vault to look down with dry eyes on Lord
Termor's final resting-place, in the niche next
to that in which her own worn-out body would
soon lie.

At the reading of the will, when Iris was
again present with her grandmother, it was
found, as most of those interested were previously
aware, that by the agreement with
Tom Mildmay, at the date when the uncle

362

and nephew had seen fit, for their mutual
convenience, to be reconciled, Lambford,
where Lady Fermor had so long reigned, was
still secured to her as a residence during the
few years she could survive. In addition to
her furniture, Lord Fermor bequeathed to his
widow the remnant of the fortune which was
at his disposal, apart from the entailed estates.
The bequest was practically unconditional, for
the slight mention of his grand daughter Irises
name, though it was coupled with a recommendation,
still left the succession entirely a
matter of Lady Fermor's will and pleasure.
She had caused it to be written that the
testator devised such and such property for
her use during her lifetime, and on her death,
for the use of their granddaughter, Iris
Elizabeth Compton, or to be disposed of in
any other way which Lady Fermor should
see fit.

Iris was thus left dependent on her grandmother.
The girl had never conceived of any
other disposal of Lord Fermor' s means than
that he had executed. Brought up under the
sole control of Lady Fermor, accustomed to
her precedence in everything, it appeared but
natural and right that she should continue the

sovereign power. No sense of hardship or
deprivation from the settlement occurred to
Iris. Her grandfather had the right to do
what he liked with such a portion of the
world's goods as he did not hold in trust for
the Mildmays, and what could be simpler
or more comprehensible than that he should
transfer his power to her grandmother ? Iris
might live to put a different interpretation on
such a will, but she would always be the
reverse of her grandmother in worldliness
as in every other quality, unless in that of
courage.

Later in the afternoon of the funeral-day,
not only the new Lord Termor but the new
dowager continued still closeted with business
men, lingering over trifles which were pronounced
of moment, and which held a fascination
both for the heir and his natural enemy,
with whom he was too prudent a man to
quarrel, preferring to maintain towards her
his old attitude of cold politeness and armed
neutrality. Iris sat alone in the drawing-room
amidst the pompous space and tarnished
gorgeousness which seemed to mock at the
narrow bounds of a coffin and the most
glittering tinsel that could deck a coffin-lid.

She was at the farthest window to which she
most frequently retreated. She was yielding
herself up to that sense of the emptiness of
the dwelling, and the hollowness of life itself,
which is apt to haunt any sensitive imaginative
mind, in a household from which its dead
has been taken away to be buried out of sight,
even when there has been no anguish of spirit
in the rending of near ties. Then one of the
servants came to her with a message. A lady
had been inquiring several times that day at
the nearest lodge, which was a short distance
from the house. She had been asking for
Miss Compton in reference to the possibility
of seeing her. The lady was at the lodge
now, waiting till Miss Compton should be
told.

Iris thought of Lucy and her affectionate
sympathy. The lodge-keeper was a stranger,
who had taken service at Lambford only the
other day. He and his wife might not recognise
the Rector's daughter ; and no doubt it
was from reluctance to intrude at such a
time, that even Lucy had not come on to the
house.

Iris looked at her watch  there was time
enough to spare before the first dinner-bell

rang, even if Lady Fermor did not eat her
dinner, for once when she was in health, in
her dressing-room. In that case, Iris would
not appear as the only lady at the table. She
ran up for her hat and jacket, and hurried to
the lodge. It was a wild windy day, during
which showers of hail had repeatedly pelted
down the petals of the wild cherry blossom
and scattered them about the walks. A blast
came scurrying along faster than Iris walked,
so that she could only distinguish a tall
figure, surely taller than Lucy, standing looking
out for her at the lodge-house door. The
figure stepped forward to meet Iris. It was
not Lucy Acton, it was Lady Thwaite.

Iris felt vexed and troubled. On this day
of all days she would least like to annoy Lady
Termor. This was not a time and place for
Lady Thwaite to appear when Iris could no
more invite her up to the house than she could
have bidden Sir AYiUiam attend the recent
funeral. It was something, however, that her
ladyship was dressed with much greater propriety
than on the last occasion when Iris had
seen her. In fact. Lady Thwaite was clad
more in accordance with the station to which
Sir William had raised her, than Iris had yet

known her to be. Honor wore a fur-lined
travelling cloak wrapped round her to protect
her from the driving wind and hail, and she
had on a fur cap to match, which sheltered
her head and became her. But, after all, the
most suitable dress could not do much to
qualify an unauthorized and undesirable visit.

You do not care to see me. Miss Compton
cried Lady Thwaite, speaking first ; * but I
could not go without one more look at you.

Are you going so soon ?' answered Iris,
startled. ' I thought you were not to sail till
lieut month, when the season would be more
advanced, and you might depend on better
weathers

Father and I are getting so weary,' said
Lady Thwaite, with a little smile; 'besides,
one can never tell how many more opportunities
there may be. I thought there might bea
likelier chance of seeing you this afternoon
than later, when other great folks be come to
comfort you, and when Lady Fermor is able
to take her ride in her carriage again.'

Perhaps,' said Iris doubtfully ; then she
said more readily, in the goodness of her
heart, ' It was kind of you to wish to bid me
good-bye, and I am sure you will not be

offended if I cannot stay long talking to you.
You know poor Lord Fermor was only buried
this morning, and I must not fret Lady Fermor
to-day by being out of the way, should she
want me.'

*No, to be sure,' Honor admitted frankly.
But, my sakes ! how tied up you are, and
what a little delicate creature, if you will
forgive me for saying so, you do look in your
black. You are not much above my shoulder
if we were to measure, miss.'

I believe it without measuring,' said Iris,
with a faint smile ; ' more than that, as I am
not very little  I am as tall as Miss Acton,
for instance  you must be a big woman, big
and strong, fit to face and conquer the world.'

Ah ! but it was you as faced and conquered
me and Will, when I durst not have done it
to him, not though he is my master. Now,
weren't that strange ? a delicate, dainty young
lady as couldn't shoulder or fire a gun, not to
save your life, but you could face the wild
beusteses, which he said him and me were
when the drink were in him and the rove on
me !'

It was not I,' said Iris ; ' it was the good
that was deep down in your own hearts ; it

was the spirit of goodness striving with your
spirits. If I helped you by a word or a look,
that is my great reward. Oh ! Lady Thwaite,
see that good overcomes. Fight and pray for
yourself and your husband, and may God
bless and prosper you in the land to which you
are going !'

That's a kind wish, Miss Compton, and
I'm main indebted to you for it and for all
that went before it said Honor less restlessly
and flightily, in a more subdued, earnest tone.
 Surely I'll do my best, if  if he comes to me
of his own free will, if he shows me beyond
mistake that there is none as is like me to
him, none  not even an angel from heaven as
can come between us two.' And again, with
one of the quick revulsion natural to her
moods, the craving for supremacy, the exacting
tyranny of a proud and passionate temper
flashed from her grey eyes.

Sir William has gone to you ; he has
shown you that already,' said Iris a little
wearily, as she remembered with self-reproach
afterwards. ' Don't play with your newly-found
peace ; don't be captious, and plague
your husband with idle suspicions. I cannot
tell  I am speaking from what I imagine and

what I have read, but I believe if you would
keep a man you must trust him.' She was in
haste to get back. ' Good-bye, Honor ; I will
not say farewell, for although we shall be far
apart, there is no saying but that we may
meet again.'

Iris did not know how far she would be, intime
to come, from this early friend and late
claimant on her pity and charity. The girl
could not guess under what different conditions
the two would meet again, as she hurried
home, feeling that on this day she ought not
to be abroad, ought not to be engaged in the
most innocent unpremeditated interview of
which her grandmother would disapprove.
It seemed to her as if Honor Thwaite and her
husband were melting away from her view,
fast sinking beneath the horizon, gone together
for their new chance and their united struggle
in a fresh country, while she remained forlorn,
standing by her colours, facing Lady Fermor
and the world.

Under the circumstances. Iris heard nothing
from the world without of Lady Thwaite and
Sir William for the next ten days, when an
appalling piece of intelligence startled and
shocked her.

On the very morning following Lady
Thwaite's visit to Iris, Sir William, to his unbounded
surprise, dismay, and anger, found
his wife's place vacant and herself gone without
leave. She had left a letter for him
primitively queer in telegraphy, orthography,
and syntax generally, still queerer in sense,
but eminently characteristic of the wayward
woman :

Dear Will Thwaite,

By the time this retches you and finds
you all well, father and me, we will have salted
for 'Merica. We, leastways I, for father did
no more than I bid he, 'ave stolen a march on
you, and are starting in the small 'ours so as
train may retch Liverpool in time for us to
sale in a immigrant vessel as is to leve old
England a month before the vessels in which
you wos to take our births. The reason why,
Will, is that I wishes to leave you free to
make your choice anew. I am sensible as our
marriage do not have answered so far, and I
have been a trouble and a burden to you 
drum you back to the wild curses of your
youth. All that may be ended, I hop so,
with all my hart for your sake, still more

than for my own; but I 'ave made up my
mind, Will Thwaite, you shall not be forced
to keep to your bond. If you prefers to stay
on at Whitehills without the cumbrance I
have been to you, if you would lick to go
back to the ranks of the fine laddies and
gentlemen as you're entitled to walk in, this
here is to say you can and welcome. Even
though I had not done you snuff harm already,
I am not the woman to hold a man against
the grain. But, Will, if you do care, the rod
is before you as before me. You have not todo,
but to come on in the next ship, as us
spoke on, and father and me will be awaiting
of you at New York. I can take care of
myself, as you know, and father, too, both ; sono
more at present, and I am your servant to
command or your loving wife as you will.

Honor Thwaite.'

Sir William Thwaite was not a meek man
by nature. Events had left him full of honest
compunction and desire to amend his ways,
no doubt ; but he was also sore, worried, and
irritable.

He took great umbrage at this last very
inconvenient and unseemly freak of Honor's.

He did not distrust her word or even her
motive, but her plea of offering him the freedom
which was not hers to give, and of testing
his love, did not touch him, as it might have
appealed to his heart had there been more
of true love than of mere kindness and pity
for her in his heart. He fell back on the
charge of deceit and falsehood which he had
been forced to bring against her from the first.
She had been reared in an atmosphere of lying
in speech and action, and the propensity clung
to her ineradicable. He had never knowingly
and wilfully lied to her, though she might
have deceived herself with regard to the quality
of his regard for her. She had promised todo
her best ; she had been elated and filled
with sanguine anticipations of the wilds of
Western America, and what had her good
intentions and extravagant hopes come to ?
This undutiful step, with its complete overthrow
of his plans and its cunning evasion of
his authority. He predicted it would be
always thus ; she would be wrong-headed,
perverse and crafty, if not treacherous, to the
close of the chapter.

But he would circumvent her, if possible.
She was not fit to take care of herself. Abe

was no proper protector for his daughter and
another man's wife. She had taken away
enough money for two steerage berths, which
would throw her into the company the least
capable of restraining and shielding her, while
he did not believe she had sufficient means
for the maintenance of herself and her father
on landing.

Sir William set off within an hour of getting
his wife's letter in pursuit of her. He
hoped to arrive in Liverpool before the emigrant
ship had sailed, to go on board of her
the first thing, and intercept the fugitives.
He would either induce his wife to return and
wait for the vessel on which he had originally
fixed, or he would insist on taking his passage
in her ship, and sailing with her and her
father.

When Sir William arrived, he found not
only that the ship was out of the Mersey, but
that the pilot had returned, and there was no
hope of his overtaking her. Indeed, she had
gone even before Lady Thwaite arrived ; but
her ladyship had been equal to the occasion,
and was so resolute in her purpose that she
had hired a boat and followed in time to betaken
on board when the pilot was dismissed.

There was no good in rushing to Ireland, for
the ship was not to touch there. Much displeased
and disheartened, Sir William stayed
on for a time at the first railway hotel he had
entered. He made inquiries about the next
vessel to sail for America, and settled to go
with a screw steamer in the course of the
following week, without returning to White -
hills to show ' his diminished face ' there. He
would leave all the concluding arrangements,
as to the letting of the house, and the supplying
him from time to time with funds, to Mr.
Miles, and he would write and summon Bill
Rogers, who was to be his fellow-voyager.

The weather was now fine, even balmy for
the season ; the equinoctial gales had blown
by. Sir William had not so much as the
sardonic satisfaction of reflecting that Honor
in her first experience of sea-sickness might
be ruing her wilfulness in giving him the slip
she had hardly ever been ill in her life
before  and that subdued by circumstances
she might miss him, and repent of her rash
separation from him.

The forsaken husband was loitering about
the docks, when he became aware of a certain
ferment and stir among the dockyard labourers.

He heard fragments of seafaring talk ; one
old man said to another :

There a' been nothing' like it, Ben, sin' the
last running' down off the Kent coast, or the
sinking' of the Princess Alice in the Thames.'

Took her right in the waist, Joe,' answered
his mate, ' and clipped her there so that her
were not only stove in, but parted midship
and went down in two bits, one after t'other
like two stones. There weren't no time to
sing out for help, even if t'other vessel hadn't
sailed on, as fast as she could run, and never
looked behind her. Not more than a couple
of boats could be got down, and they do say
nine tenths of the whole lot of them poor
people are in Davy's locker by this time.'

 Right of sea-way, do you say ? That
ain't a question will be tackled in our day,
Joe  not till lords and ladies and princes and
princesses 'ave had their turn of clustering
like bees about the gangway with their
screams horful as them that a' heard do tell.
Bless ee ! what do the sinking of an immigrant
ship or two, 'cause of Avant of rule of
right of sea-way, make to the Lords and
Commons ?'

Sir William stood as if nailed to the spot,

VOL. II. 37

with his heart failing him for fear of what
had befallen some unhappy voyagers. He
could make out the talk to refer to a collision
of ships at sea, with great loss of life. On
inquiry, he learnt a few more details ; that
right of way which may be even more fatally
neglected or misunderstood on water than
on land, had been disregarded or blundered
over once again. Two vessels  the one
foreign, the other an English emigrant ship 
had run foul of each other in a fog off the
Welsh coast. The foreigner had drawn off
little injured, and sailed away like a cowardly
depredator and wanton murderer. The
emigrant ship had suddenly parted midships,
settled, and sunk, before more than a couple
of boats could be lowered and put off. Of a
great living freight sailing along without a
dream of danger  no storm in the sky, no
heaving, tossing sea, neither rocks nor breakers
ahead, the mother country still in sight  the
mass had perished.

The words ' emigrant ship ' caused Sir
William to clench his teeth to keep in a cry.
The name ? There was no doubt of it. The
name was that of the vessel in which his wife
and her father had sailed. But still there

was a glimmer of hope. Two boat-loads of
passengers had escaped. Boats from other
ships on the same course might have picked
up such of the shipwrecked men and women
as could swim, or keep themselves afloat for a
space, in a sea ' as calm as a pond.' Nay,
it was reported that some persons in the
emigrant ship at the moment of collision had
leapt on board the other vessel, which had
taken itself off.

There was no printed list as yet of the
passengers saved, but it would be published
as soon as authentic intelligence could be
procured ; and there would be no difficulty
in reaching the little village on the Welsh
coast, the nearest point to the scene of the
accident.

Sir William made one in a terror-stricken,
half-despairing little crowd of relations and
friends. Scarcely recovered from the pang
of temporary parting, they hurried in hot
haste to the locality of the disaster to ascertain
if the parting had been for ever in this
world, and to exchange the passing pang for
the weeping which would not be comforted,
for those who were not.

The tale conveyed to Liverpool was found

372

substantially correct. There was still great
uncertainty with regard to the fate of individuals
; but the many bodies already washed
on shore served not merely as grievous confirmation
to the heavy loss of life, but bore
melancholy testimony to the final chapter in
the history of not a few men and women.

Sir William received his answer in the first
ghastly row of corpses he inspected. It came
to him in the spectacle of a drowned young
woman, of fine physique, with a marriage ring
on the third finger of one brown hand. She
had on a dark dress, with which had been
worn a bright - coloured neckerchief still
knotted about the throat. The rich colour
had been washed out of the cheeks and lips ;
the grey eyes looked up without speculation
in their congealed depths. But there was no
disfiguring mark on the still face, and there
was eternal peace in the breast which heaved
no longer. He had followed her full of justifiable
anger, but there was no room for anger
or for anything save immeasurable sorrow
when he overtook her. Of what use had been
the splendid strength which had not preserved
the brave life for a little hour ? She had
saved another from a more dangerous pond

than that pond-like sea, but she could not
save herself. Why had he not been at hand
to repay the life she had given back to him ?
Was it always to be thus in his history, that
the women who saved him were to suffer and
die as their part in the salvation ?

Old Abe's body was not to be found, and
without waiting to search for it, Sir William
did indeed carry home his wife to Whitehills 
but it was in her coffin. There was a great
talk, much scandal, and some pity excited by
her untimely end. There was a funeral at
Whitehills to which some of Sir William's
neighbours and social equals  among them
Mr. Hollies, came uninvited, and to which he
himself bade those of the Quarry men who
had been Honor's relations and friends. But
though the widower, silent and stern in his
suffering, ordered that the late Lady Thwaite's
remaining kindred and former associates should
return with him to the house and have refreshments
set before them, he himself did not eat
or drink with them, and he took his last leave
of his guests on the threshold.

You were no true friends to Ladv Thwaite,*
he said coldly ; * she owned it at the last.
You know she quitted the country without

saying good-bye to one of you. You are no
friends of mine that I should ever seek to see
you again  still, I have had you here to-day,
because blood is thicker than water, and
because, admitting my own misdoings, I bear
no ill-will to you. And if you can point out
at any time a way in which I can really help
you, I will do it, for her sake who was a link
between us, since she, my wife, counted kin
with you.'

The Quarry folk departed, discomfited and
affronted. They wanted none of his help, or
his sauce either. What was he to come it
over them with his taunts and lectures ? they
blustered amongst themselves. They supposed
they were not to have another blow out when
old Abe's carcase cast up  he was to be buried
like a dog. But they would not suffer it.
They would bury old Abe like one of themselves,
and drink themselves blind in his
honour, to shame the turn-coat Squire, with
his wet and his dry bouts, his sinning and
repenting.

But in spite of Sir William's efforts and
offers of reward the remains of old Abe never
cast up,' so as to be disposed of honourably
or dishonourably. He either slept as quietly
as many another at the bottom of the sea, or

his unidentified body filled a pauper's grave,
or it was just possible he escaped, and vanished
into obscurity. He had the secretiveness, love
of mystery, intrigue, and sensation, the restlessness
and fitfulness inherited from an ancient
migratory, predatory race, either altogether
unsettled, or settled for a time as squatters.
He had transmitted some of the traits to his
daughter, intermingled with the headstrong
impulses of a warmer, more faithful heart, and
a more generous temper, a union still more
perilous than the tendencies taken singly.

If Abe did survive the destruction of the
Geoffrey Hudson his dislike of being looked
after, cared for, or, as he would have con-
ordered, shelved, and perhaps his apprehension
of Sir William's anger, because Abe had
abetted his daughter and furthered the scheme
which had cost her life, prevented the old man
fi-om ever reporting himself to his son-in-law,,
and claiming his assistance. Like a waif, or
the wild, hairy creature of the woods, which
the little ex-gamekeeper had first appeared to
the master on whom he had preyed, Abe drifted
away into oblivion, replaced, as his predecessors
the squatters had been, by more reasonable and
steadier sons of the soil.

A FUGITIVE IN BROAD DAY.

The fugitive was not Sir William ; he stayed
on at Whitehills as if he meant to stay therefor
the rest of his life. He had given up his
scheme of emigration, and after his short
scandalous outbreak and his wife's death,
settled down as he had done on his arrival
in the neighbourhood. But though he had
made no inroads to speak of on his fortune
during his brief prodigal madness, he took no
steps to reorganize or replenish the ranks of
his household, Which had fallen into still
further disorder, and been diminished to the
last degree in the prospect of Sir William and
Lady Thwaite's leaving the country. In fact
Sir William's establishment now consisted of
an old woman, with a girl to help her, and
Bill Rogers. With this moiety the master of

the house appeared satisfied, leading as he did
the life of a recluse.

This went on for nearly two years. Mr.
Miles came down on business occasionally,
and tried to prove his client's reformation
and his own trust in its permanency, by seeking
to draw out Sir William afi:'esh, and by
endeavouring to interest him in county matters,
and in his duties as a landlord. So far as that
went Sir William was amenable to influence.
While he read more than ever, he strove
harder to lay himself open to every source of
intelligent observation and occupation around
him, and to comply with all the obligations
that could reasonably be required of him, not
living for himself alone, but for others. He
began to rebuild the half-finished houses, he
dabbled in the allotment system, he showed
interest in the decisions of the justices. He
met his neighbours again on these grounds,
and, after the first blush, overcame his reluctance
to encounter them, displaying to them
something of the dearly bought obliviousness
and blunt superiority to manners and fashions
generally, which were partly the results of
passing a second time through the fires of
remorse and unappeasable regret. In the

lisrlit of the errors lie had committed and the
losses he had sustained, the infringement of
any of the superficial forms which ought to
enclose solid realities, but are in themselves
the sum-total of life to many persons, dwindled
into insignificance.

But Sir William's complacence ended there,
though the most of his neighbours would have
been well enough pleased to have granted him
further grace, even to have ventured on readmitting
him to the sanctuary of their homes.
These magnates were coming round to the
conclusion that Sir William had sown his wild
oats in one crop, that it was all the result of
his miserable marriage from which he had got
a deliverance, for his low-born wife was dead.
He was living once more as quietly and
soberly as a judge. Even though he were to
practise less austerity he would still be an
eligible partner. Was he not Sir William
Thwaite, of Whitehills ? and did it not betray
a shocking want of charity not to believe in
the sincerity and enduring nature of his repentance
? The poor young fellow had suffered
from his disadvantages in early life. After his
arrival at Whitehills he had, unhappily, fallen
ainong thieves in more instances than one.

The speakers would mention no names, and
they did not propose to confound the innocent
with the guilty ; but everybody knew a certain
terrible old lady whose bow and spear had
brought down heaps of victims in her day.
Sir William had escaped with the skin of his
teeth from all his perils, and it was the duty
of every good Christian and good neighbour,
after a sufficient interval had passed to test his
reformation  for no necessary precaution was
spared  to welcome back the prodigal, and
encourage him in the way he should go.

But Sir William declined every social overture,
not so much rudely as with calm persistence,
that foiled and wore out the most
persevering endeavours. He did not even
make the exceptions he had allowed himself
three years before. Lady Thwaite, Sir Join's
widow, had returned from Rome long ago ;
but though Sir William's carriages and the
produce of his hot-houses were once more at
her disposal, no little notes, clever manoeuvres,
or frank advances wo aid induce him either to
go to her at Netherton, or to receive her and
authorize her interference in the domestic
economy of Whitehills.

The cool motions which old Lady Fermor

made to Sir William to renew his intercourse
with Lambford fared still worse. There was
a rumour that he not only declined all her
invitations, but passed her carriage with a
bow, though its mistress hailed him in a voice
which might have been heard a mile off.
What better could have been expected from
the plain man with whom she had played like
a wicked, hoary-headed enchantress, whom
she had beguiled with lures which her granddaughter
disowned ?

Sir William was never seen within the
Rectory, though he had resumed his attendance
at church, had gone to vestry meetings,
and was ready with help for the parish poor
when it was called for.

If Sir William enjoyed the respite from
neighbourly visiting, there was another person,
had he known it, the last he would have exposed
to suffer on his account, who was
punished for his remissness. Lady Fermor's
anger against Iris had taken the form of persecution,
and assumed some of the features of
a craze. Is it a proof that our natural normal
state ought to be one of healthy-minded fairness
and human kindness, when, in all cases
of crying injustice and cruelty, a strain of

madness is said to creep in, till it becomes
difficult to separate the depraved morals and
the absence of natural feeling from the distempered
brain ? Witness the worst of the
popes, emperors, kings, and queens, including
John of England and Isabel of France. Old
Lady Fermor, who had formerly simply neglected
Iris, and who had shown some capacity
of toleration where what the girl's grandmother
classed as fanaticism and obstinacy of
temper were concerned, now set upon her
granddaughter day after day, taunted her
with barbarous taunts, vouchsafed the agreeable
information that Iris's father had ended
by despising and detesting her mother, and
added to it the comfortable sequel that the
Hon. Mrs. Compton had cared nothing for her
child, and had thrown it a dead-weight upon
her mother. Lady Fermor reverted shamelessly
to the shameful passages in her own life,
in the hearing of the pure ears that tingled
with horror and affront. She dwelt on hereditary
taints and hereditary spotted reputations
until Iris grew sick with loathing at the
infamy in which she felt hopelessly entangled,
in spite of her utter revolt against its foulness
and baseness, and her cry day and night to

the God of righteousness, who has declared it
is not His will that because the fathers have
eaten sour grapes the children's teeth shall
be set on edge. ' Lord, Thou wilt hold me
up. Thou wilt sooner send the Angel of
Death to set me free prayed the poor girl.

Lady Termor's last deliberate, well-nigh
insane sin against the granddaughter in her
power to be tortured, was that in place of
shielding her from such contaminating association
as Lady Termor had protected her
from hitherto, the mistress of Lambford threw
Iris in the way of Major Pollock, who continued
after Lord Termor's death the one
constant male habitude of the house. All her
life long Iris had experienced an extreme
repugnance and positive dread of this man.
Whatever he had been by birth, he had long
sunk into a coarse profligate, a detected black-leg,
a wolf that preyed on any silly sheep
which came within its toils. He was a disgrace
to the town of Knotley, which yet
tolerated him because of the prestige of his
original rank, his supposed knowledge of the
great world (on the evil side), and his connection
with such a house as Lambford.
There was hardly a redeeming trait to be

discovered among his leers and sneers, his
cheatery, effrontery, and profanity. Iris's recoil
was the instinctive shrinking of good from
unmixed eal over which it has no power.

Yet it was for this man, old enough to be
Iris's father, brutalized by a lengthened career
of \T.ce and debauchery, impoverished by such
riot as was within his reach, that Lady Fermor
now affected to destine her grandchild.

The mistress of Lambford, as it seemed,
half in cruel jest, half in more cruel earnest,
in the frenzy which had taken possession of
her, ceased to encourage any other visitor at
the house. She refused to let Iris go to Lady
Thwaite at Atherton, or to the Actons at
the Rectory, compelling her to sit and talk
with the worst of companions, and to make
herself conspicuous by walking, riding, and
driving with this reprobate, till the girl was
half mad with fright and disgust.

There are exhausted states of the bodily
constitution which medical men assert are
favourable to the sowing of the seeds of
disease. In the same way there are depressed
conditions of the mind after it has been subjected
to prolonged trial, when it loses its
capacity to balance probabilities, and readily

falls a victim to panics. People who remembered
Iris's mother during her last visit to
Lambford began to remark that her daughter
was acquiring the same harassed, hunted look,
which, if it settled down on her face, would go
far to spoil its sweet, bright beauty. Why,
she was not twenty-three years of age, yet she
was fast losing colour and flesh, and would be
faded and pinched before she had attained the
fulness of womanhood. Lucy Acton was
vexed by the change, but she could do
nothing, even if her hands had not been very
full with a contumacious curate, a twist in the
smooth running of her Dorcas Society, and a
proposal for pauper boarding out where her
pauper children were concerned. In the circumstances,
Lucy could not press the claims
of friendship, or maintain a vigilant watch
over Iris in this crisis of her life ; just as
many excellent persons cannot keep up their
private correspondence, or dispense hospitality,
or practise common consideration for
old friends, because of engrossing so-called
evangelizing and charitable engagements.
These worthy individuals forget somehow
that though charity abroad is a good thing,
true charity begins nearest home.

Lady Fermoronly noticed the alteration in
her grand-daughter's looks to make use of it
in her gibes.

Well, Iris, you were a poor enough affair
at the best, but I think I had a right to expect
that you would keep what little looks you had
till you were turned five and-twenty. I was
as young as ever at five-and-forty. But I see
I must look sharp and dispose of you while I
can, before you go off entirely, since I wish
no old maids left on my hands, even though I
could live to provide for them  which I won't,
girl ; there are more to profit by my savings,
on which you have got your eye, no doubt,
than you. I have had little to do with the
Dugdales and Powellss, but they are my grandchildren
too, all the same. My lord left what
he could at my discretion, and I can tell you
he cared more for my blood than his own.
He would have preferred a dog of mine to a
child of his first wife's  if she had borne him
one. It did not matter greatly to him that
his blood flowed in your veins. He took my
view of you as a troublesome, perverse minx
of a girl. If there had been a likely lad among
the Dugdales and Powellss, I should have sent
all you brats of girls to the right-about, but

VOL. II. 38

my ill-fortune has followed me through two
generations, with troops of useless girls as my
sole descendants. However, if you think I
am going to make an eldest grandson of you,
then you are mightily mistaken. It is no
matter that I don't believe I should know a
Dugdale or a Powell girl if I saw her. I
suppose they all take after their maternal
grandfather, and are a flat-footed, roundness,
blinking-eyed set.'

I have never seen them,' said Iris faintly.

I dare say not,' exclaimed her grandmother
scornfully.  Do you think they
count you a relation of theirs ? They may
condone what they are pleased to consider my
offences, because I can do something for them
if I choose ; but what on earth should induce
them to forget that you are the wild Lord
Termor's granddaughter, while they are the
grandchildren of that wronged saint, Bennet
of Hyndcoomb.'

Grandmamma,' said Iris, with a gasp, ' I
have never sought to stand in my cousins'
way. If there is any wrong to be redressed,
then for mercy's sake let it be done, and don't
mind me.'

And, pray, what do you intend should

become of you T retorted Lady Fermor, in
place of being softened, more contemptuous
than ever. * I dare say you are mean enough
good girls are generally sneaks  to think
of becoming a pensioner on Tom Mildmay, the
new lord, whose aunt I superseded. Child, it
is not in nature. He barely tolerates you, and
his wife hates you like poison.'

I shall not be a pensioner on anybody
said Iris, with grave determination and more
spirit.

And what position do you hold to me,
may I ask ?' demanded her grandmother, with
mock deference. ' I have plenty of holes to
put my money in without their ever becoming
filled up. It is not a pure pleasure for me to
provide for a girl, and endure her namby-pamby,
priggish company after she has disobeyed
and offended me, and spoilt a finer
fellow than she was worthy of, according to
the dictates of her conscience and religion, of
course. No, no, I see nothing for it but that
I should hand you over to old Pollock. He
will take you with a small gratuity. He can
keep a roof over his head, and I dare say over
yours, which will soon be as much as a scarecrow
of a girl of our family is entitled to

382

ask, for barring our looks and a mouthful of
common sense  which some of us don't possess
 we are nowhere. He may be better able
to manage you than a poor doting woman
over fourscore years can aspire to do with a
sudden assumption of extreme age and weakness.


Still the probabilities, if Iris Compton had
only been able to take them into consideration,
were all against Lady Fermor's going farther
than threaten her grand-daughter with this
last horrible injury. It was a free country, in
which no woman could be compelled to marry
any man, good or bad, against her will. Public
opinion would cry out against Lady Termor,
and although she had defied it in her prime,
in the strength of her will and passion, she
was not likely to set it at nought for so small
a gain as the punishment and degradation of
a refractory descendant. Lady Fermor had
always kept her eyes open with regard to
worldly advantages and disadvantages. Major
Pollock had none of the first to recommend
him, and the chance was, as the old lady well
knew, that if she were so reckless and if she
possessed the power to bring about a disgraceful,
unsuitable marriage between him and Iris,

she would find him the most impudent and
inveterate parasite a tie of relationship ever
permitted to fasten on the head of a house.

But Iris was no longer able to reason on
the dangers which she wildly exaggerated.
Her home was becoming intolerable to her.
It needed but one more indignity and forestalling
of future misery to drive her to extreme
measures.

Lady Fermor had gone for her afternoon
drive to Knotley when rain came on. She
made her coachman stop at Major Pollock's
door. She said she feared the wet, and was
too stiff to alight. She would sit there and
have a cup of tea handed to her by the gentleman
of the house, who had come out to attend
his patroness. But her grandmother ordered
Iris to alight, go in with Major Pollock, and
sit down with him at his table.

Iris could not escape compliance, unless she
was prepared to engage in a discreditable contention
in the public street. She was forced
to cross the threshold which no respectable
woman in any class was in the habit of passing.
She did not tarry above a few minutes. Even
Major Pollock seemed put out, and did not
urge her to sit down ; but when she came

back, pale and trembling, her grandmother
bad another order to give her. Iris was to
take the carriage-umbrella and go on and do
what shopping Lady Fermor wished to have
done, while she drove slowly after her granddaughter
 till Iris could re-enter the carriage.
Would Major Pollock be so good as to accompany
Miss Compton, hold the umbrella
above her head, and lend her his arm, as she
had not been strong lately, and was not looking
well ?

In vain Iris protested she could hold the
umbrella and walk by herself perfectly well.
She was compelled to parade the streets 
empty because of the rain, but commanded by
a double row of windows, and enter shop after
shop with her escort.

He was not the man to fail long in presuming
on his opportunities, though he was likely to
make a more correct estimate of the situation,
and to calculate, without grossly blundering,
the length and breadth of Lady Fermor's old-standing
favour for him, and dislike to her
granddaughter.

Upon my word. Miss Compton, this is
nice and cosy to have you tucked like an
unruly chick under my arm, and to be sent

to go messages with you turtle-dove fashion.
We must be better friends. Come, I prophesied
we should when you paid me a compliment at
your ball an age ago. I don't think you've
paid me another till to-day, but better late
than never, when the old lady is so jollily seton
our friendship. There is no saying where
it may end. Why don't we make common
cause ? and I'll fight your battles with my old
termagant. Better broken ships than none,
young lady. I am not the only reformed
scamp in the neighbourhood, but there is a
distinction which my lady is able to appreciate.
While a certain gentleman is safe to go on
sulking to the end of the chapter, I'm at your
feet  'pon my soul I am !  whenever you condescend
to hold out your hand to me. And
though you're young and fair, and an angel,
and all that sort of bosh, and Lord and Lady
Termor's grand-daughter, which is more to
the purpose, and entitles you to some line, by
Jove ! you owe me compensation for past airs.
Miss Compton.'

When Iris got into the carriage and it drove
ofi", leaving Major Pollock behind, she heard
Lady Fermor chuckle : * I have given the
Knotley gossips something to talk about. The

women in our family never missed affording
ground for talk. The public owe us a vote of
thanks on that account, and if I have taken
down a little of your squeamishness and high-mindedness,
Miss Compton, you ought to be
obliged to me also.'

Iris was silent. She entered no protest, she

heard no further word. She was pressing her

hands to her forehead and taking a desperate

resolution. ' I am of age ; I am my own

mistress, with any little gain that implies. It

cannot be right to live on with grandmamma

and tempt her to behave to me as she has

done  to compass, if that were possible, her

shocking suggestion. I cannot die when I

wish. I cannot go to the Actons, I should

only compromise the Rector and Lucy, entangle

them in a family quarrel, and if they were to

take my part, form a bad precedent for all the

family quarrels in the parish. Lucy does not

know, and how could I ever pollute her mind

as mine has been polluted ? Will it ever be

clean, fearless and God-trusting again ? Lucy

would advise me to stay on with grandmamma

and be good, and seek to do her good. Ah !

it is not so easy to be good and do good as

Lucy imagines. She would laugh at the

mention of Major Pollock as a child's bogie.
She would charge me to be patient where
patience is of no avail. I cannot speak to
Ada, Lady Thwaite ; she would dislike getting
into an awkward predicament, interfering between
relations, helping to make mischief  as
if there were any left to be made  between a
grandmother and a grand-daughter whom the
grandmother has brought up; and Lady
Thwaite would be right, according to the
sound of the thing. Grandmamma is so very
old that nobody would believe what power
she retains as she sits there. It seems doubly
heartless to turn upon her and abandon her to
hired servants. If the other Lady Thwaite,
poor Honor, had lived and remained at White-hills,
she would have dared to come over to
Lambford and beard grand mamma, fetch me
away before her face, and lavish upon me all
the poor shelter she could provide. I must
go away from them all ; I must earn my own
bread. Surely I can do it if thousands of
women earn theirs. But I shall tell grand-mamma
first. I don't know if she will seek
to prevent me, if she care enough to tr};,
except to maintain her rule ; but if she should
shut me up, then it will be time enough to

think of fleeing like a culprit in secret and in
the dark

Secrecy and darkness were utterly foreign
to Iris's nature. They were among the
bugbears which she would abhor and shun
to her dying day. Therefore she arranged
for her departure from Lambford, not so much
in an orderly and methodical manner, but
on principles of her own which took even
her graceless old enemy by surprise, much
more so than if the unhappy girl had absconded
under cloud of night.

The fugitive waited till the morning that
the sun and her fellow creatures might see
her set forth. She spent a wakeful night
for the most part packing such clothes, books,
and trifling possessions as she felt entitled to
take with her. But she scrupulously and
tenderly respected 'her grandmother's times
for sleep and breakfast. ' Grandmamma must
be refreshed and at her best,' the rebel
said. ' She may feel my going in a way;
she may be stirred up to oppose me. I
must take care of doing her harm.' Therefore
it was at high noon that Iris, in her
linen morning-gown and straw hat, with
her dust-cloak over her arm, knocked and

sought permission to speak with Lady
Fermor.

The room, according to its wont, was bare
of all beautiful and gentle associations, though
supplied with every luxury. Lady Fermor sat
muffled up in the glare of the mingled sunlight
and firelight, which on another would
have fallen fiercely, but in her only aroused a
grateful torpid warmth, while it lit up with
ghastly illumination her shrivelled parchment
skin, pronounced brows and false teeth and
hair. She was revolving old memories and
twirling her thumbs, and at first only bestowed
a supercilious glance on her grand daughter.

Lady Fermor was roused to attention by
the thrill in Iris's voice when she said, withall
the calmness she could command :

I am going away, grand mamma. I do
not see how we can live together any longer.
I am very sorry that I have not been more
of a comfort and pleasure to you ; but since
it is not so, and our differences are becoming
worse every day, it is better for me to quit
Lambford.'

And this is all the thanks I get for having
brought you up. Iris Compton  this is all
your gratitude ?' said Lady Fermor, leaning

back in her easy-chair and crossing her hands
in her lap.

Iris might have inquired what she had
received to be grateful for which her grandmother
could have decently kept back. But
she was of another mind.

I am not ungrateful ; I know you have
had a great deal of trouble with me she said
humbly, ' and my heart is sore that it should
end like this.'

I don't want any of your whining and
cant said Lady Fermor fiercely. ' I wash
my hands of you from this day. I don't care
what becomes of you, and you may go to
the deuce for me. You know, and I know,
it won't be an honest road long, least of all
after such vile ingratitude. I have only one
stipulation to make, since it is your modest
little game to set out on your travels in
broad day and call as much attention to the
proceedings as possible, you shan't leave
Lambford in the guise of a beggar, or a mock
nurse in a hospital, or a sister in a nunnery,
or whatever other silly example you may
choose to follow, and so bring further disgrace
upon me. You'll be so good as to
leave this house dressed like a lady, and you

will do me the favour of making use of the
carriage to the train. I suppose you mean to
journey by rail, and not on foot like an
ordinary vagabond ?'

Iris went back to her room, and with
fingers that would hardly do her will, changed
her dress for the last elaborate costume in
dove-coloured cashmere and silk, which her
grandmother had ordered for her.

As Iris was doing Lady Fermor's bidding,
Soames made a solemn muffled appeal for
admittance. She brought on a salver an
open cheque for fifty pounds, and a slip of
paper on which was written : ' This is the
last you shall have from me. Make the
best or the worst you can of it. Don't
disturb me by further leave-takings, I have
had enough of them, and I don't choose they
should spoil my luncheon.'

Iris took up the cheque and put it down
again ; it was her grandfather's money, and
yet she felt as if it burnt her fingers. She
looked wistfully in Soames's face.

I have to go back to my lady instantly,
in case what has happened should be too
much for her,' said the woman in a strictly
official tone, taking her stand on being on

duty. ' Good-bve, miss. If I may be so
bold, I wish you an 'happy journey.'

On the whole, Soames was relieved by
Iris's going away; but she did not wish to
know more of the step, since the knowledge
might get her into a scrape. Her
greedy eyes grudged the granddaughter of
the house the large cheque, but the maid
must not imperil the annuity for which she
had already paid dearly.

The suspicion that Miss Compton might
be going away for good, remained confined
to the cold and cautious breast of Soames.
The other servants were baffled and put on a
false scent by the circumstances of the dress,
the carriage, and the hour, under which Iris
set out. The old cook, the footman whose
life Iris had saved, Jenny Eogers who washer
young mistress's special favourite, all
supposed, and kindly welcomed the supposition,
that some sudden visiting expedition
had been fixed on by Lady Fermor for her
granddaughter. ' She will be all the better
for it, poor dear young lady,' they settled
cordially among themselves. ' She leads a
deal harder life than any of us, that she
do ; and she has not been looking well of late,

but a change will set her up.' Thus it
happened that Iris, the friendliest of human
beings, departed from the place which had
been her home for nearly the whole of her
young life, without a tear shed for her sake,
without a caress, or a blessing, or a Godspeed,
beyond Soames's ceremonious measured
good wishes.

Though it had been her own doinof- that
she should go like this, and she felt that
she could not act otherwise than as became
an honourable and innocent girl, she was
impressed by the desolation of the step she
was taking, while it lacked the engrossing
excitement of a clandestine adventure shrouded
in gloom that might be dispersed at any
moment with the escapade discovered and
arrested.

There was less shame with less uncertainty.
Iris had not taken advantage of age, or
betrayed a trust or transmitted a legacy of
bewilderment, doubt, even terror to the
dwellers at Lambford. But did nobody care
what became of her ? Was there not one to
ask where she was going  a lonely girl into
the wide world ? It was unreasonable in her
to put such questions when actually nobody

save her grandmother and Soames had any
suspicion of the true nature of the case. Poor
Lucy would be grieved and perhaps hurt
beyond propitiation, because the advice which
she gave so glibly had not been sought.
The Rector and Mrs. Acton, too, might blame
Iris, and resent her lack of confidence in
them. Yet, it had been a hard struggle for
her to be silent under the desire of saving
them, burdened as they were with many
cares, from fresh trouble, in a hopeless contest
with Lady Termor  above all when it would
seem like a clerical and parental obligation
laid on them to enforce the old lady's authority,
though their hearts should be with Iris in her
distress. As for King Lud, he had been gone
on a long cruise ; and though his ship was
again in harbour, he had not yet returned to
the Rectory.

Iris felt she ought to have been thankful
that she had implicated nobody in her misdemeanour,
that she was going away with
her grandmother's knowledge and in a sense
with her consent, and that her last act in
relation to Lady Fermor had been one of
obedience to her wishes.

It was a grey cloudy day, with soft subdued

light and shade, and the birds singing as they
do in such a premature long-drawn-out gloaming,
when Iris in her solitary state drove
along the wide grass-bordered roads, through
the pastures and downs and occasional cornfields.
She had selected  with a sense of
strangeness in having the privilege of selection
 Cavesham instead of Knotley for her
station, because of a violent apprehension
which still harassed her, and caused her to
shrink with a nervous horror from the most
distant chance of encountering Major Pollock,
though she had no just cause to fear the
encounter. He could not stop her flight.
It would not even matter though he should
convey to her grandmother the information
that he had seen her departure.

While Iris avoided Major Pollock, she
could not altogether shake off a delusion,
though she knew it to be a delusion. She
fancied that the people whom she passed were
looking at her; that they were surprised to see
her alone, and wondered why she came to
Cavesham, instead of the usual station for the
Lambford household ; that they were suspecting
a family quarrel, and watching with idle
yet oppressive curiosity her every movement.

VOL. II. 39

She had no doubt what she would do to
begin with, for her mind, naturally courageous,
quick and fertile in resource, had decided
promptly within a few minutes of her having
come to the conclusion that she must act for
herself and go away from Lambford.

Iris was unacquainted with her cousins, the
Dugdales and Powellss, and her grandmother
had told her, what was too probable, that
they would not acknowledge her as a relation.
She knew her other cousin, the present Lord
Termor ; she was conscious that he had been
politely passive in his bearing towards her,
but unless in the last necessity she would not
appeal to him, though she believed that in
spite of some faults and his wife's influence,
he was on the whole an upright, tolerably
humane man. Iris had been brought up in
the practice of patience and long-suffering,
but even the meekest will turn in self-defence,
especially when the meekness is co-existent
with a strong sense of justice and generosity.
Iris was even passionately indignant with the
wholesale condemnation and loose summing
up of offences and offenders which had been
displayed in the Mildmays' dealings with her.
Besides, she could not commit the last wrong

against her grandmother which would be
implied in Iris's addressing herself to Lady
Termor's natural enemy and claiming his
protection. Lady Fermor, whatever she had
done, remained Iris's mother's mother, her
nearest relative, the guardian of her childhood
and youth, as the old woman had so often
reminded the girl lately with cruel reproaches.
Nothing could do away with that obligation,
which entered like iron into Iris's soul, so
that under the sharp smarting of the wound
there was little probability of her forgetting a
duty which, according to her notions, was still
paramount.

To expose her grandmother, if Iris could
prevent it, especially to expose her relative to
her greatest foe, would be to expose herself,
so the girl argued, to the well-warranted
charge of household baseness.

Iris was shut up to one course. Her old
friend, Miss Burrage, had a sister in London
who kept a boarding-house in which the girl
and her governess had once lived for a few
days. Iris would go to Fitzroy Square, to
Mrs. Haigh, who knew all about Iris Compton,
and would surely receive her without difficulty.
Perhaps Mrs. Haigh would help Iris to look

392

about and find some way of working for her
living, since fifty pounds and the small sum
left of her last quarter's allowance, with which
she had intended to pay her expenses to
London, would not last for ever. It did not
strike Iris that there would be anything degrading
in entering the great army of workers,
though she had the sense to anticipate that
there might be much that was not agreeable,
that was trying and full of drudgery. She
even failed to see, and there was considerable
simplicity and short-sightedness in the failure,
that Lady Fermor was certain to regard the
project with the utmost hostility. On the
contrary, the wanderer sought to pacify her
tender conscience, and the aching longing of
her affectionate heart, by telling herself that
she might soon write to Lucy Acton, when
the Rector, if he saw fit, could inform Lady
Fermor that Iris was well, and able to maintain
herself.

But Iris, in her ignorance, thought less of
these questions than of the strangeness of her
solitude and independence as she left the
carriage and entered the station, took out her
ticket for London, and paced up and down
the most secluded end of the platform. Did

the man in the ticket-office recognise her, and
regard it as odd that she should be travelling
alone, which she had never done before? Was
the stationmaster keeping his eye upon her,
or did he direct the porters to do it ? She
saw. one of her fellow-travellers, a harmless-looking
middle-class woman, surreptitiously
reading the address on Iris's portmanteau. It
might be to gratify idle curiosity, at the same
time the action was suspicious. Yet why should
she mind, even though what she dreaded, next
to being followed by Major Pollock, came to
pass, and some of her personal acquaintances 
Lady Thwaite, or one of the Hollises, or even
an officer from Birkett  were to appear through
the archway ? None of them could interfere
to prevent her departure, not even though she
or he knew all about it, that Iris Compton
was not coming back, that she had only her
old governess's sister, whom Iris had seen but
once nine years ago, for a friend in need with
whom to take refuge.

But was Iris really going away from Lamb-ford,
from Eastham, from country sights and
sounds, and all she had ever known and
loved ? She stooped, as she pondered over
what seemed still impossible, and gathered a

daisy that grew on the railway bank. Was
she bound for the great city, with its swarming
population, in which she would be the
merest unit ? Or was it no more than a
vexed, confused dream, from which she should
awaken presently ?

Iris's perturbed half-incredulous reflections
were brought to an end by the arrival of the
train. Amidst the little stir of arriving and
departing passengers, she stepped into an
empty carriage, and seated herself, but rose
the next moment and stood in the doorway,
impelled by the recollection that since there
was no one to look after the luggage she
ought to attend to it. Nothing had been left
on the platform, the train was moving, and
she drew back just as she caught a glimpse of
a familiar face, the owner of which was coming
leisurely into the station. The face was the
homely but trustworthy visage of Jenny
Rogers's brother Bill, Sir William Thwaite's
man-servant.

Then the engine steamed off, carrying the
travellers fast into the unknown, and the
marvel of the expedition, the adventure of it,
began to seize hold of the brave spirit, to

fascinate and excite it, at the same time that a
great trust in the Father of the fatherless, and
the Brother of all His desolate brothers and
sisters, rose in her soul and stilled its tribulation.


END OF VOL. II.

Billet And 80>'8, PEKiTEBS, GUILDFORD.

CHATTO & Winds's

List of Books.

About.  The Fellah : An Egyptian
Novel. By Edmund About.
Translated by Sir Sandal Roberts.
PostSvo, illustrated boards, 2a. ; cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Adams (W. Davenport), Works

by:

A DJctlona? of the Drama. Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the
Present Times. Crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d.

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.
Davenport Adams. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Advertising, A History of, from

the Earliest Times. Illustrated by
Anecdotes, Curious Specimens, and
Notices of Successful Advertisers. By
Henry Sampson. Crown 8vo, with
Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations,
cloth gilt, 7s. 6d.

Agony Column (The) of " The

Times," from iso to 1870. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay,
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Aide (Hamilton), Works by:

Carr of Carrion. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 28.

Confidences. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2a.

Alexander (Mrs).  Maid, Wife,

OP Widow .' A Romance. By Mrs.
Alexander. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.

Allen (Grant), Works by:

Colin Clout's Calendar. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 63.

The Evolutionist at Large Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Vignettes from Nature. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook
of. Translated from the German
of A. Rosengarten, by W. Collects
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with
639 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Art (The) of Amusing: A Collection
of Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks,
Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank
Belleww. With 300 Illustrations. Cr.
Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Artemus Ward :

Artemus Ward's Works: The Works
of Charles Farmer Browne, better
known as Artemis Ward. With
Portrait and Facsimile. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Artemus Ward's Lecture on the
Mormons. With 32 Illustrations,
Edited, with Preface, by EowAro P
Kingston. Crown 8vo, 6d.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By
Edward P. Kingston, With a
Frontispiece. Crowa Svo, cloth eztrai
3S. Cl

Ashton (John), Works by:

A History of the Chap-Books of the
Eighteenth Century. With nearly
400 lusts., engraved in facsimile of
the originals. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Social Life in the Reign of Queen
Anne. From Original Sources. With
nearly 100 lusts, Cr.8vo,cl.ex.,7s.6d.

Humour, Wit, and Satire of the
Seventeenth Century. With nearly
100 lusts. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

English Caricature and Satire on
Napoleon the First. With 120 Illustrations
from the Originals. Two
Vols., demy 8vo, 283. \ In preparation.

Bacteria.  A Synopsis of the

Bacteria and Yeast Fungi and Allied
Species. By W. B. Grove, B.A. With
over ICO Illustrations. Cr. Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. [In pre marathon.

Balzac's " Comedie Humaine "

and its Author. With Translations by
H.H.Walker. Post Svo, cl. limp, 23. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London;
together vith Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Price.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. Gd.

Barley (Rev. C.W.),Works by:

English Surnames: Their Sources and
Significations. Cr.Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs

of. By Henry Morley. With 100
lusts. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beauchamp.  Grantly

Grange: A Novel. By Shelley
Beauchamp. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 23.

Beautiful Pictures by British

Artists : A Gathering of Favourites
from our Picture Galleries. In Two
Series. All engraved on Steel in the
highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney
Armytage, M.A. Imperial 4to, cloth
extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per Vol.

Bernstein.  As Pretty as

Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 lusts. by Richter.
Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ;
gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Beerbohm.  Wanderings In

Patagonia; or. Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. With
Illus. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Belgravia for 1884. One

Shilling Monthly, Illustrated by P.
Macnab.  Two Serial Stories are now
appearing in this Magazine : " The
Lover's Creed," by Mrs. Castel,
Holy; and "The Wearing of the
Green," by the Author of "Love the
Debt."

%* Now ready, the Volume for November,
1883, to February, 1884, cloth extra,
gilt edges, 73. 6d.; Cases for binding
Vols., 2s. each.

Belgravia Holiday Number.

With Stories by James Payn, F. W.
Robinson, J. Arbuthnot Wilson,
and others. Demy Svo, with Illustrations,
Is. [Preparing.

Bennett (W.C.,LL.D.),Works by:

A Ballad History of England. Post

8vo, cloth limp, 23.
Songs for Sailors. Post Svo, cloth

limp, 2s.

Besant (Walter) and James

Rice, Novels by. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
each ; or crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. each.

Ready-money Moptiboy.

With Harp and Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

My Little Girl.

The Case of Mr. Craft.

The Golden Butterfly.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Monks of Theresa.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.

Besant (Walter), Novels by:
All Sorts and Conditions of Men:
An Impossible Story. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

The Captains' Room, &c. With
Frontispiece by E. J. Wheeler.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

All In a Garden Fair. Three Vol-s.,
crown Svo.

Dorothy Forster*. Three Vols., crown
Svo. [Shortly,

Betham-Edwarda (M.), Novels

by. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
each. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s. each.

Felicia. | Kitty.

Bewick (Thomas) 8c his Pupils.

By Austin Dobson. With lOO Illustrations.
Square 8vo, cloth extra,
103. ci. [Preparing.

Birthday Books: 
The Starry Heavens: A Poetical
Birthday Book, Square 8vo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 23. 6d.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language
and Legends, By W. J. Gordon.
Beautifully Illustrated in Colours by
Viola Boughton, In illuminated
cover, crown 4to, 6s,

The Lowell Birthday Book. With
Illusts., small 8vo, cloth extra, 43. 6d.

Bishop, Old Mexico and her

Lost Provinces. By William Henry
Bishop. With 120 Illustrations. Demy
Svo, cloth extra, Lips. 6d.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks.
Demy Svo, Illustrated, uniform
in size for binding.

Academy Notes, separate years, from
1875 to 1883, each Is.

Academy Notes, 1884. With illustrations.
Is. [Preparing.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete
in One Vol., with nearly 600 Illusts. in
Facsimile. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenop Notes, 1877. 6cL

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, from
1878 to 1883, each Is.

Grosvenop Notes, 1884. With Illustrations.
Is. \ Preparing.

Grosvenop Notes, 1877-82. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy
Svo, cloth limp, 6s.

Pictures at South Kensington. With
70 Illustrations, Is.

The English Pictures at the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old Masters at the National
Gallery. 128 Illustrations. Is. 6d.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242
Illusts. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 38.

The Paris Salon, 1884. With over 300
Illusts. Edited by F. G. Dumas.
Demy Svo, 33. preparing.

The Art Annual, 1883-4, Edited by
F. G. Dumas. With 300 full-page
Illustrations. Demy Svo, 5s.

Boccaccio's Cameron ; or,

Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated
into English, with an Introduction by
Thomas Wright, F.S.A. With Portrait,
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates,
Cr. 8yo, cloth extra, gilt, 78. 6d.

Blake (William): Etchings from
his Works. By W. B, Scott. With
descriptive Text, Folio, half-bound
boards, India Proofs, 2l3.

Bowers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:
Canters in Hampshire. Oblong 4to,

half-bound boards, 21s.
Leaves from a Hunting Journal.
Coloured in facsimile of the originals*
Oblong 4to, half-bound, dis.

Boyle (Frederick), Works by:

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated bds.,2s.

Savage Life. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
33. 6d. ; post Svo. illustrated bds., 28.

Brand's Observations on Popular
Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating
the Origin of our Vulgar Customs,
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with
numerous Illustrations, 7s. Sd.

Bret Harte, Works by :
Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged

and Revised by the Author.

Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo

cloth extra, 68. each.

Vol. I, Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel Portrait,
and Introduction by Author.

Vol. II. Earlier Papers Luck of
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
bohemian Papers  Spanish
and American Legends.

Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts
Eastern Sketches.

Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.

Vol. V. Stories  Condensed
Novels, &c.
The Select Works of Bret Harte, in

Prose and Poetry. With Introductory.
Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait

of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Gabriel Convoy: A Novel. Post Svo,

illustrated boards, 2s.
An Heiress of Red Dog, and other

Stories. Post Svo, illustrated boards,

2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 61.
The Twins of Table Mountain. Cap.

Svo, picture cover, Is. ; crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 33. 6d.
Luck of Roaring Camp, and other

Sketches. Post Svo, illust. bds., 28.
Jest Briggs's Love Story. Fcap Svo,

picture cover, Is. ; cloth extra, 2s. cl
Flip. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Californian Stories (including Thx

Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff

Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post

Svo, illustrated boards, 28.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by :

The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.

Third Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. 8vo, 1,400 pp., cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [Immediately.

Brewster (SirDavid),Worl<s by:

More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates. Post
8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science: Lives of
Galileo, Tycho Brake, and Kepler.
With Portraits. Post Svo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
J. A. Smith. Post Svo, cloth extra,
43. 6d.

Brilliant-Savarin. Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Browning.  The Pied Piper of

Hamelin. By Robert Browning.
Illust. b) George Carline. Large
4to, illuminated cover, Is.

\ In preparation,

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by:

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Kathleen Mavourneen. Fcap. Svo,
picture cover. Is.

Lindsay's Luck. Fcap. Svo, picture
cover. Is.

Pretty Polly Pemberton. Fcap. Svo
picture cover. Is.

Burton (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Varney Lovett Cameron.
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 21s.

The Book of the Sword : Being a
History of the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Square
Svo, cloth extra, 32s.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works:

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.
With a Frontispiece by Arthur
Hughes. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6.

Selected Poems of Robert Buchanan.
With Frontispiece by T. Daniel.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 63.

Undertones. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s

London Poems. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 63.

The Book of Form. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

St. Abe and his Seven Wives : A Tale
of Salt Lake City. With a Frontispiece
by A. B. Houghton. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by W.
Small. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

A Poet's Sketch Book: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan. Crown Svo, cl. extra, 63.

The Shadow of the Sword : A Romance.
Crown Svo, cloth extra,
33. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

A Child of Nature : A Romance. With
a Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

God and the Man : A Romance. With
Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

The Martyrdom of Madeline: A
Romance. With Frontispiece by A. W.
Cooper. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Anna Water: A Romance. Three
Vols., crown Svo.

The New A be lard : A Romance. Three
Vols., crown Svo.

Foxglove Manor: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown Svo. [In preparation.

Robert Buchanan's Complete Poetical
Works. With Steel-Plate Portrait.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

[/ the press.

Burton (Robert):

The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Melancholy Anatomise : Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard, engraved
by GooDALL, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 78. 6d.

Byron (Lord) :

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
MooRE. A Reprint of the Original
Edition, newly revised, with Twelve
full-page Plate?. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Cameron (Commander) and

Captain Burton.  To the Gold Coast
for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By
Richard F. Burton and Varney
Lovett Cameron. With Frontispiece
and Maps. Two Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 21s.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Lovett),

Novels by:

Juliet's Guardian. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 33. 6d.

Deceivers Ever. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. : crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6(1.

Campbell.  White and Black:

Travels in the United States. By Sir
George Campbell, M.P. Demy 8vo,
cloth extra, 14s.

Carlyle (Thomas) :

Thomas Carlyle: Letters and Recollections.
By MoNCURE D. Conway,
M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with Illustrations, 63.

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R, H. Shepherd, New and Revised
Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson,
1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.

Chapman's (George) Works:

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. IL,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with 3 1 Introductory Essay by Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, I83. ; or separately, 6s. each.

Chatter Jackson.  Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition. Large
4to, half-bound, 283.

Chaucer:

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Haweis. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

City (The) of Dream : A Poem.

Fcap. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [/ the press.

Cobban.  The Cure of Souls :

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Collins (C. Allston). The Bar

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allusion
Collins. Post 8vo, illustrated boards,
23.

Collins (Mortimer 8c, Frances),

Novels by :
Sweet and Twenty. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Frances. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 23.
Blacksmith and Scholar. Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The Village Comedy. Post 8vo, illust.

boards, 23. ; cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
You Play Me False. Post 8vo, illust.

boards, 2s.; cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.

Cohorts (Mortimer), Novels by :

Sweet Anne Page. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 33. 61.

Transmigration. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.

From Midnight to Midnight. Pos
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown
8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.

A Fight with Fortune. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Coins Humorous Works:

Broad Grins'' " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B. Blackstone,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, gilt, ?s. 6d.

-QoIIins (Wilkie), Novels by.

Each post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ; or crown 8vo,
cloth extra, Illustrated, 3s. 6d.

Antonio. Illust. by A. Concave.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney.

Hide and Seel. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and A. Concave.

Queen of Hearts Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and A. Concave.

My Miscellanies. With Illustrations
by A. Concave, and a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman in White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

by G. Du Maurier and F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs. ? With Illustrations by

S. L. Fildes and Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and C. S. Rants.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Fildes and Sydney Hall.

The Two Destinies.

The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.

Heart and Science : A Story of the
Present Time. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.

"Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Conway (Concur D.), Works

by:

Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal 8vo, with 65 Illusts., 28s.

A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated
by W. J. Hennessy. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 63.

Tha Wandering Jew. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Thomas Carlyle: Letters and R-
col sections. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Cook (Dutton), Works by:

Hours with the Players. With a
Steel Plate Frontispiece. New and
Cheaper Edit., cr. 8vo, cloth extras.

Nights at the Play: A View of the
English Stage. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Leo: A Novel. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 23. ; crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Copyright.  -A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright In
Literary and Dramatic Works. By

Sidney Jerrold, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2S. 6 d.

Cornwall.  Popular Romances

of the West of England; or. The
Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 73. 6 d.

Creasy.  Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians : with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of *' The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 7s. 6 d.

Cruikshank (George):

The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series : The First from 1835
to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
Humour of Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A' Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.
Crown Svo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

The Life of George Cruikshank. By
Blanchard Jerrold, Author of
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Robinson Crusoe. A choicely-printed
Edition, with 37 Woodcuts and Two
Steel Plates by George Cruik-
shank. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
100 Large Paper copies, carefully
printed on hand-made paper, with
India proofs of the Illustrations,
price 363.

Russians. Handbook of Heraldry

; with Instructions for (Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By Joys E. Russians.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Cycles. Hearts of Gold : A

Novel. Ey William Cycles. Crowns
vo, cloth extra, 3s. cl

Daniel.  Merpie England In

the Olden Time. Ev George Daniel.
With illustrations by Root. Crvik-
SHANK. Crown vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d,

Daudet. Port Salvation ; or,

The Evangelist By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. cl

Covenant.  What shall my

Son be ? Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons, By Francis Covenant,
ai.A. Post 8vo, cloth lip, 23. Sd.

Davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by:

One Thousand Medical Maxi.TJS.

Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, la. 6d,
Nursery Hints: A Mother's Guide.

Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 123.

De Maistre.  A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry At t well. Pest
8vo, cloth Limp, 23. 6d.

De Mille.  A Castle in Spain.

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
a Frontispiece. Crown sto, cloth
extra, 3s. cl

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Soup Lady of Tears. Cr. 8vo, cloth
extra, Ss. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Circe's Lovers. Crown 8yo, cloth
extra, 3s. chickens

(Charles), Novels by:

Post svo, i;:u3:ra:-;d boards, 23. each.
Sketches by Eos. i Nicholas Nickleby
Pickwick Paper's, ' Oliver Twist,

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.
mayfair Library.) Post Svo, clods
limp, 23. 6d.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens,
1841-170. With a 2.'ew Bibliography,
revised and e'!aried. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Hsr.vz Shepherd.
Crcwa cvo, cIo"di extra, 68.

About England with Dickens. Alfred
Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vandeh.hoof, Alfred
RiMMES, and others. Sq. svo, cloth
extra, Ic. 6d.

Dictionaries;

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dramatic. Bv tdc-
Rev. E. C. Brewer LL.D. C:i-.n
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. ilmmedizcciy.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being

a corapr';nen;ive Guide to the Plays,.
Playwright;. P.ajcrs, -d Pia;. houses
of the United Kinidci and .\L-erica,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By V,'. D..vs.v?o?.T Adams.
A thick clame, crown vo, half-bound,
123. 61. [in preparation,

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ; including
the Names of Celebrated
States, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins. Churches, Ships,
Street, Clubs, Natural Curiosities,
and the like. By Ws*. Ai Wheeled
and Charles G. Vs'keeles, DciDj
Svo, cloth extra, vs. 6d.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. Third Edition, revised
throD]|hont, with a New Appendix,
containing a Complete Enish Bibliography.
Crown Svo, 1,400 pages-cloth
extra, 73. Sd,

Short Sayings of Great Men. With

Historical and Explanatory Notes.

By Samuel A- Best, M.A. Demy

Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.
The Slang Dictionary: Etymclcdcal,

Historical, and Anecdotal. Crowns

cloth extra, 63. 6d.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: . Die*
binary of Curious, Quaint, and Out*
of-the-Way Matters. By Believer
Rewards, Crowa Bvo, kalf-bouiid*
12s. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Dobson (W. T.), Works by :

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Dora.  Memories of our

Great Towns ; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dora,
F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations. New
and Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
Reader's Handbook") Crown 8vo,
half-bound, 12s. 6d. [In preparation.

Dramatists, The Old. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits,
6s. per Vol.

Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols.

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including the doubtful
ones; Vol. II., the Poems and
Minor Translations, with an Introductory
Essay by Algerian Chas.
Swinburne; Vol. III., the Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer.  The Folk-lore of

Plants. By T. F. Thiselton Dyer,
M.A., &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Edwardes(Mrs.A.), Novels by:

A Point of Honour. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Archie Lovell. Post 8vo, illust. bds.,
2s. ; crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6(1.

Eggleston. Roxy: Novel. By

Edward Eggleston. Post 8vo, illust,
boards 2s. ; cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and .Annotations,
by Rev. A. B.Grosart, D.D. Crown
8vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Herrick's (Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert ( Lord) of Carbury's Poems.
Edited, with Introduction, by J.
Wharton Collins. Crown 8vo,
parchment, 83.

Emanuel.  On Diamonds and

Precious stones: their History,Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s.

Englishman's House, The: A

Practical Guide to all interested in
Selecting or Building a House, with
full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c.
By C. J. Richardson. Third Edition.
With nearly 600 Illustrations. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Ewald (Alex, Charles, F.S.A. ),

Works by :

Stories from the State Papers.

With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 63.

The Life and Times of Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Eyes, The.  How to Use our

Eyes, and How to Preserve Them. By
John Browning, F.R.A.S., &c. With
37 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, I3.; cloth,
Is. 6d.

Fairholt.  Tobacco : Its History

and Associations; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ages and Countries. By F. W. Fair-holt,
F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece
and upwards of 100 Illustrations
by the Author. Crown 8\ 0, cloth
extra, 6s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ;
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Counts y
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the
like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

The Chemical History of a Candle :
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous
Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

On the Various Forces of Nature,
and their Relations to each other :
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous
Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

Fin-Bee.  The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by :

The Recreations of a Literary Man ;
or. Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 63.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s. cl

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.
Seventy-five Broglie Street.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Complete

Poems: Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev, A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Cr. Svo, cloth bds., 63.

Fonblanque.  Filthy Lucre : A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 vols., demy Svo, cl. bds., 78. 6d. each.

Francisco (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. Gd.each;
post 8vo, illust. boards, 23. each.

Olympia. j Queen Cophetua.

One by One.

Esther's Glove. Fcap. Svo, picture

cover. Is.
A Real Queen. Three Vols., cr. S vo.

Free. Pandurang Hard ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Free, G.C.S.I., &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Friswell. OneofTwo: Novel.

By Hair Friswell. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Frost (Thomas), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs.

Fry. Royal Guide to the London
Charities, I884-5. By Herbert
Fry. Showing, in alphabetical order,
their Name, Date of Foundation, Address,
Objects, Annual Income, Chief
Officials, &c. Published Annually.
Crown Svo, cloth, l3. 6d. immediately.

Gardening Books:

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse
: Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower.Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Glenny. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By ToM Jerrold, Author of "The
Garden that Paid the Rent," &c.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip

about Flowers. By Tom and Jane

Jerrold. Illustrated. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 23. 6d.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Jerrold. Fcap. Svo, illustrated
cover, Is.; cloth him p. Is. 6d.

Garrett. The Capet Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Post
Svo.illus t. bds., 2s. ; cr.Svo, cl.ex., 38. 6d.

German Popular Stories. Collected
by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin.
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square Svo,
cloth extra, 68. 6d. gilt edges, 7s. Gd.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Gentleman's Magazine (The)

for 1884. One Shilling Monthly. A
New Serial Story, entitled "Philistia,"
bv Cecil Power, is now appearing.
"Science Notes," by W. Mattie
Williams, F.R.A.S., and "Table
Talk," by Sylvanus Urban, are also
continued monthly.
** Now ready, the Volume for July to
December, 1883, cloth' extra, price
83. 6d. ; Cases for binding, 2s. each.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Robin Gray.

For Lack of Gold.

V/hat will the V/or!d Say?

In Honour Bound.

In Love and War.

For the-king.

Queen of the Meadow.

!n Pastures Green.

The Braes of Yarrow.

The Flower of the Forest.

A Heart's Problem.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 28.
The Dead Heart.

'Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. each.
The Golden Shaft.
Of High Degree.

Fancy-free. Three Vols,, crown 8vo.

Gilbert (William), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2a. each.

Dr. Austin's Guests.

The Wizard of the Mountain.

James Duke, Costermonger.

'Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 23. 6d. each.

The First Series contains  The
Wicked World  Pygmalion and Galatea
 Charity  The Princess  The
Palace of Truth Trial by Jury.

The Second Series contains  Broken
Hearts Engaged Sweethearts 
Gretchen  Dan'l Bruce  Tom Cobb 
H.M.S. Pinafore The Sorcerer The
Pirates of Penzance.

Glenny.  A Year's Work in
Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Glenny. Post 6vo, cloth limp, 2s. Od.

Godwin. Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s

Golden Library, The:

Square imo (Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Song for
Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of the
Alhambra.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Eiia. Both Series

Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tal"for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights ot the
Round Table. Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New

Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes,byT.M'CRiE,D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and Queen
Mab. With Essay by Leigh Hunt.

Shelley's Later Poems: Lion and
Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems, the

Shelley Papers, &c.
Shelley's Prose Works, including A

Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi, Isti

Irvine, &c.
White's Natural History of Sel

borne. Edited, with Additions, by

Thomas Brown, F.L.S.

II

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The: An Encyclopedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor, Crown 8vo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 73. 6d.

Gordon Cummings. F.),Work3

by:

In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illustrations.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra,
8s. 6d.

In the Himalayas. With numerous
Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth extra,
88. 6d. shortly.

Graham.  The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap, 8vo, picture cover. Is.; cloth
extra, 2s. 6d.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
KoNER. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. Suffer. With 545 Illustrations.
New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Greenwood (James),Works by:

The Wilds of London. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Low-life Deeps: An Account of the

Strange Fish to be Found There.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Dick Temple: A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Guyot.  The Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind. By
Arnold Guyot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 43, 6d.

Hair (The) : Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
Picus. Crown Svo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hake (Or. Thomas Gordon),

Poems, by:
Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth
extra, 8s.

New Symbols. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Legends of the Morrow. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 6s.

The Serpent Play. Crown Svo, cloth
(extra, 6s.

Hall. Sketches of Irish Character.

By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Machine, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium Svo,
cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Holiday.  Every-day Papers

By Andrew Holiday. Post Savoy.
illustrated boards, 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salamanca. Post Svo, cloth li'p,
2s. 6d.

Hanky.Panky: A Collection of-very

EasyTricks,Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer, With 200
Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra
4s. 6d.

Hardy (Lady Duffus).  Paul

Wyntep's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Hardy. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 23.

Hardy (Thomas).  Under the

Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of " Far from the Madding
Crowd." Crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated boards,.
2s.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by 

The Apt of Dress. With numerous-illustrations.
Small Svo, illustrated
cover. Is. ; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

The Apt of Beauty. Nev and Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
with Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations,
6s.

The Art of Decoration. Square Svo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, lOs. 6d.

Chaucer fop Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures-and
numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer fop Schools. Demy Svo
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.).  American

Humorists. Including Washington
Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
Tames Russell Lowell, Artemus
Wa.d,Mark Twain, and Bret Harte.
By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A,
Ocwn Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Hawthorne (Julian), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Garth.

Ellice Quentln.

Sebastian Stroke.

Prince Saroni's Wife.

Dust.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.
Fcap. 8vo, illustrated cover, Is. ;
cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

Fortune's Fool. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Beatrice Randolph. With Illustrations
by A. Fredericks. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, Ss. 6d. preparing,

Heath (F. G.).  My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author of
The Fern World," &c. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; cloth gilt, and gilt
edges, 63.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Animals and their IVIasters. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Social Pressure. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Ivan de Iron: A Novel. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Heptalogia (The); or, The

Seven against Sense. A Cap with
Seven Bells. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Herbert.  The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Carbury. Edited, with
an Introduction, by J. Wharton
Collins. Crown 8vo, bound in parchment,
8s.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
boardS; Ribs.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Worlds by :
Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The New South-West: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With 100 fine Illustrations and Three
Maps. Demy Svo, cloth extra,
14s. [In preparation.

Handley (Charles), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings: In

eluding the Origin of Signs, ans
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Handley.

Holmes (Wendell), Works by:

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post Svo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d. ; another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post Svo, cloth limp, 23.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
Svo, cloth him p, 23

Holmes.  The Science of

Voice Production and Voice Preservation
: A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. Crown Svo,
cloth limp, with Illust rations, 23. 6d.

Hood (Thomas):

Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse. Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original Illustrations.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 23.

Hood (Tom), Works by:

From Nowhere to the North Pole:
A Noah's Archaeological Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 63.

A Golden Heart : A Novel. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous

Works, including his Ludicrous
Adventures, Bons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
Illustrations. Crown Sto, cloth extra,
gilt, 7s. 6d.

Hooper.  The House of Ray :

A Novel. By Mrs. George Hooper.
Post Svo, illustrate ed b oa rds, 2s.

Horne.  Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
HoRNE. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s.



Howell. Conflicts of Capital

and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered : Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
of Great Britain, showing their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in
their Political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George
Howell. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hugo.  The Hunchback of

Notre Dame. By Victor Hugo.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 28.

Hunt. Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Thornicroft's Model.

The Leaden Casket.

Self-condemned.

angelo.  Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Angelo. Crown
6vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Irish Wit and Humour, Songs

of. Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves. Post Svo, cloth limp,
2s. 6(1.

Irving (Henry).  The Paradox

of Acting. Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's " Le Paradoxe
sur le Comedian," by Walter series
Pollock. With a Preface by
Henry Irving. Crown Svo, In parchment,
4s. 6d.

Irving (Washington),Work8 by:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 28. each-tales
of a Traveller.
Tales of the Alhambra.

James.  Confidence: A Novel.
By Henry James, Jun. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Janvier.  Practical Keramics

for Students. By Catherine A,
Janvier. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by. Each

crown Svo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. ; or post
Bvo, illustrated boards, 28.

The Dark Colleen.

The Queen of Connaught.

Jefferies (Richard), Works by:

Nature near London. Crown Svo

cloth extra, 63,
The Life of the Fields. Crown Svo

cloth extra, 6s. fin the press.

Jennings (H. J.). Curiosities

of Criticism. By Henry J. Jennings.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 28. 6d.

Jennings (Hargrave).  The

Roslcrucians: Their Rites and Mysteries.
With Chapters on the Ancient
Fire and Serpent Worshippers. By
Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.
A New Edition, crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7a. 6d.

Jerrold (Tom), Works by :

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Jerrold. Fcap. Svo, illustrated
cover, Is. ; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
 Jerrold. Illustrated. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants
we Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Jerrold. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 28. 6d.

Jesse.  Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Jones (Wm., F.S.A.), Works by:

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
200 Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination,
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 73. 61.

Crowns and Coronations : A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
With One Hundred Illustrations.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 78. 6d.

Jonson's (Ben) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
Gifford. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown Svo,
cloth extra, I83. ; or separately, 6s. each.

Joseph uSjThe Com pleteWorks

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
News " and " The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., Svo, with 52 Illustration*
ad Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 148.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Kavanagh. The Pearl Fountain,

and other Fairy Stories. By
Bridget and Julia Kavanagh. With
Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith,
Small 8vo, cloth gilt, 63.

Kempt. Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by:

Each crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
or post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Oakshott Ca style, j Number Seventeen

Lamb (Charles):

Mary and Charles Lamb: Their
Poems, Letters, and Remains. With
Reminiscences and Notes by W.
Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's
Portrait of the Essayist, Facsimiles
of the Title-pages of the rare First
Editions of Lamb's and Coleridge's
Works, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, lOs. 6d.

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the " Essay on
Roast Pig." Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Essays of Elia. Complete Edition.
Post Svo, cloth extra, 23.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
Reprinted from unique copies.
Small Svo, cloth extra, 53.

Little Essays: Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand and One Nights:

commonly called, in England, " The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Arabian Society In the Middle Ages :

Studies from "The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of "The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-pool. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lares and Penates; or, The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by :

The Story of the London Parks.

With Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 33. 6d.

Clerical Anecdotes. Post Svo, doth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Forensic Anecdotes Post Svo, cloth
limp, 23. 6d.

Theatrical Anecdotes. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Leigh (Henry S.), Works by:

Carols of Cockayne. With numerous
Illustrations. Post Svo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Jeux d'Esprlt. Collected and Edited
by Henry Sleigh. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 23. 6d.

Life in London ; or. The History

of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by :

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Witch Stories.

The True Story of Joshua Davidson.
Ourselves Essays on Women.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Patricia Kimball.

The Atonement of Learn Dundas.

The World Well Lost.

Under which Lord ?

With a Silken Thread.

The Rebel of the Family.

"My Love!"

lone. Three Vols., crown Svo.

Locks and Keys.  On the Development
and Distribution of Primitive
Locks and Keys. By Lieut-Gen.
Pitt Rivers, F.R.S. With numerous
Illustrations. Demy 4to, half Roxburgh
e, 163.



Longfellow:

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.

Including " Outre Mer," " Hyperion,"
"Kavanagh," " The Poets and
Poetry of Europe," and " Driftwood."
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Lucy. Gideon Fleyce: A Novel.

By Henry W. Lucy. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy Svo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, Ribs.

McCarthy (Justin, M.P.),Works

by:

A History of Cup Own Times, from
the Accession of Queen Victoria to
the General Election of iso. Four
Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, 123.
each.  Also a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols, crown 8vo, cloth extra,
6s. each.

A Short History of Our Own Times.
One Volume, crown Svo, cloth extra,
6s.

history of the Four Georges. Four
Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, 123.
each. [Vol. I. in the press.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2a. each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Watergate Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Liniey Rochford
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens. With 12 Illustrations
by F. Barnard. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

McCarthy (Justin H.), Works

by:

Scraping, and other Poems, Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 63.

An Outline of the History of Ireland,
from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. Svo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

MacDonald (George, LL.D.),
Works by :
The Princess and Curdle. With 11
Illustrations by James Allen. Small
crown Svo, cloth extra, 53.

Guttapercha Willie, the Working
Genius. With 9 Illustrations by
Arthur Hughes. Square Svo, cloth
extra, 3a. 6d.

Paul Faber, Surgeon. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. Millais. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post Bvo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Thomas WIngfold, Curate. With a
Frontispiece by C. J. Staniland.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, Ss. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macdonald.  Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonald.
Crown Svo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Macgregor.  Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Machine Portrait-Gallery (The)
of Illustrious Literary Characters;

with Memoirs  Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal  illustrative
of the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, B.A. With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint, crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7a. 61.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by :

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid. Square Svo, cloth gilt,
10s. 6d.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
byT. R. Macquoid. Square
Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Through Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.
Square Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

About Yorkshire With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid, Engraved
bv Swain. Square Svo, cloth extra,
lOs. 6d.

The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Lost Rose, and other Stories. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Sto,
illustrated boards, 23.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Mackay. Interludes and Undertones:
or. Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D, Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 63.

Magician's Own Book (The:

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magic No Mystery: Tricks with
Cards, Dice, Balls, &c., with fully
descriptive Directions; the Art of
Secret Writing ; Training of Performing
Animals, &c. With Coloured
Frontispiece and many Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 53.

Matlock (W. H.), Works by:

The New Republic; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, bound in parchment,
83.

Is Life worth Living? Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the KDi?<bts of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Marlowe's Works. Including
his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ; or,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 28i

Open ! Sesame !

Written in Fire.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Harvest of Wild Oath.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.

Waterman.  Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-mans
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.
Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.

With 100 Illustrations. Small 8vo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d. Cheap Edition,
illustrated boards, 2s.
An Idle Excursion,and other Sketches.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quake
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition (under
the title of " Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "), post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. ffd.
Without Illustrations, post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 23.

The Stolen White Elephant, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

The Adventures of Huckleberry
Finn. With numerous Illustrations
by the Author. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 78. 6d. [preparing.

Massinger's Plays. From the
Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 63.

Mathew.  London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mathew. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo
cloth extra, 33. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.
A Journey Round My Room. By

Xavier de Maistre. Translated

by Henry Attwell.
Latter Day Lyrics. Edited by W,

Davenport Adams.
Quips and Quiddities. Selected by

W. Davenport Adams.
The Agony Column of "The Times,"

from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an

Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Balzac's "Comedie Humaine" and

its Author. With Translations by

H. H. Walker.



Mayfair Library, continued 

Melancholy Anatomise: A Popular
Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy
of Melancholy."

Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. By VV. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.

DoBSON.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World  Pygmalion and
Galatea  Charity  The Princess 
The Palace of Truth  Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing: Broken
Hearts  Engaged  Sweethearts 
Gretchen  Dan'l Bruce  Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore  The Sorcerer
The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour.
Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves.

Animals and their Masters. By Sir
Arthur Helps.

Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.

Curiosities of Criticism. By Heart
J. Jennings.

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert
Kempt.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.


Clerical Anecdotes. By Jacob Lar-wood.



Forensic Anecdotes; or, Humour and
Curiosities of the Law and Men of
Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Carols of Cockayne. By Henry S.
Leigh.

Jeux d'Esprlt. Edited by Henry S.
Leigh.

True History of Joshua Davidson.
By E. Lynn Linton.

Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.

Ourselves: Essays on Women. By
E. Lynn Linton.

Pastimes and Players. By Robert
Macgregor.

The New Paul and Virginia. By
VV. H. Matlock.

Mayfair Library, continued

The New Republic. By W. H. Mal
lock.

Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmonde-
ley-penned.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol-
mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by
George Du Maurier.

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by U.
Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By
H. A. Page.

Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.

More Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh
Rowley.

The Philosophy of Handwriting. By
Don Felix de Salamanca.

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.

Old Stories Retold. By Walter
Thornbury.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
By Dr. Andrew Wilson,

Medicine, Family. One Thousand
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
Licentiate of the Royal College ol
Physicians of London. Crown 8vo,
Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.

Merry Circle (The) : A Book of
New Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Touch and Go. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s.6d.; postSvo, illust. bds., 23.

Mr. Dorillion. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Miller.  Physiology for the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
use in Classes and Popular Reading.
With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs.
F. Fenwick Miller. Small Svo, cloth
limp, 28. 6cL

Milton (J. L.), Works by:

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise
Set of Rules for the Management oi
the Skin ; with Directions for Die-t,
Wines, Soaps, Baths, &c. Small Svo,
Is. ; cloth extra, Is. 6d.

The Bath In Diseases of the Skin.
Small Svo, Is. ; cloth extra, Is. 6d.

The Laws of Life, and their Relation
to Diseases of the Skin. Small 8vo,
Is. ; cloth extra. Is. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Moncrleff.  The Abdication ;

or, Time Tries All. An Historical
Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff.
With Seven Etchings by John Petrie,
R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J.
MacWhirter.A.R.A., Colin Hunter,
R. Macbeth, and Tom Graham. Large
4to, bound in buckram, 21s.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown 8vc>,cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

A Life's Atonement.
A Model Father.
Joseph's Coat.
Coals of Fire.
By the Gate of the Sea.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Val Strange : A Story of the Primrose

Way.

Hearts.

The Way of the World. Three Vols.,
crown Svo.

North Italian Folk. By Mrs.
Commons Carr. Illust. by Randolph
Caldecotx. Square Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Number Nip (Stories about),

the Spirit of the Giant Mountains.
Retold for Children "by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J.
Moor Smith. Post 8vo, cloth extra,
53.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's

Guide in Health and Disease. By N.
E. Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown Svo, la. ;
cloth, Is. 6(1.

Oliphant.  Whiteladies: A

Novel. With Illustrations by Arthur
Hopkins and Henry Woods. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Reilly.  Phoebe's Fortunes :

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post Svo, illustrated boards,
2s

O'Shaughnessy (Artis), Works

by:
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. Svo, cloth

extra, 73. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. Svo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6(1.
Lays of France. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 10s. 6(1.

Ouida, Novels by. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 53. each ; post Svo, illume
treated boards, 2s. each.

A Dog of Flanders.

Held In Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Cecil Castle-male's

Gage.
Italia.
Tricotrln.
Puck.

Folle Farlne.
TwoLittleWooden

Shoes.

Pascal.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Piplstrello,

A Village

mine.
Bimbi.
In Maremma.

Corn-wands:

A Novel. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 53.

Frescoes : Dramatic Sketches. Crowa
Svo, cloth extra, lOs. 6d.

BimbI : Presentation Edition. Sq,
8vo, cloth gilt, cinnamon edges.,
73. 6d.

Princess Napraxine. Three Vols.,
crown Svo. [Shortly,

Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos. Selected
from the Works of Ouida by F.
Sydney Morris. Small crown Svo,
cloth extra, 5s.

Page (H. A.), Works by :

Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study.
With a Portrait. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
B.A. Edited by H, A. Page.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Cris
D.D. Post Svo, cloth limp, 23.

Paul Ferrol :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2i. each.
Paul Ferrol : A Novel.
Why Paul Ferrol Killed His Wife.

Paul. Gentle and Simple. By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo
Illustrated boards, 2s.

T9

Payn (James), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, doth extra, 33. ci. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Lost Sir Massinger,

The Best of Husbands

Walter's Word.

Halves. | Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her.

Less Black than We're Painted.

High Spirits.
Carlyon's Yeai.

By Proxy.

Under One Roof.

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

From Exile.

A Grape from a Thorn.

For Cash Only.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentlnci<'s Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family. | At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The Clyffards of Clyffe.

The Family Scapegrace.

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Gwendolen's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hundred Pounds Reward.

Kit: A Memory. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

The Canon's Ward. Three Vols.,
crown Svo.

Penned (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by : Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d. each.

Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.

The Muses of Mayfair. Vers da

Societe, Selected and Edited by H.

C. Penned.

Pegasus Re-Saddled, With Ten full-page
Illusts. by G. Du Maurier.

Phelps. Beyond the Gates.

By Elizabeth Stuart Phelps,
Author of " The Gates Ajar." Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 28. 6d. Published by
special arrangement with the Author,
and Copyright in England and its
Dependencies,

Pirkis.  Trooping with Crows :

A Story. By Catherine Pirkis. Fcap,
Svo, picture cover. Is.

Planche (J. R.), Works by:
The Encyclopaedia of Costume ; or,
A Dictionary of Dress Regal, Ecclesiastical,
Civil, and Military from
the Earliest Period in England to the
Reign of George the Third. Including
Notices of Contemporaries*
Fashions on the Continent, and a
General History of the Costumes of
the Principal Countries of Europe.
Two Vols., demy 4to, half morocco,
profusely Illustrated with Coloured
and Plain Plates and Woodcuts,
7 73. The Vols, may also be had
separately (each complete in itself)
at 3 133. 6d. each : Vol. I. Traditionary
Vol. II. A General
History of Costume in Europe.

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or. Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra.
7s. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, b*3.

Play-time : Sayings and Doings
of Babylon. By Edward Stanford.
Large 4to, handsomely printed in
Colours, 53.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols.,
Svo, cloth extra, with Portraits, lOs. 61

Poe (Edgar Allan): 
The Choice Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown Svo, cloth extra,
73. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and

other Stories. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete
in One Volume. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 23.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Valentine: A Sketch. With a Frontispiece
by Hal Ludlow, Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23.

The Foreigners, Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. [Shortly,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by ;

flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illustrations.
Small crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. ci.

Rough Ways made Smooth: A
Series of Familiar Essays on Scientific
Subjects. Cr. 8vo, cloth extras.

Our Place among Infinities: A Series
of Essays contrasting our Little
Abode in Space and Time with the
Infinities Around us. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

The Expanse of Heaven : A Series
of Essays on the Wonders of the
Firmament. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Saturn and Its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy Svo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

The Great Pyramid: Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Wages and Wants of Science
Workers. Crown Svo, Is 6d.

Pyrotechnist's Treasury (The);

or. Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 4s. 6d.

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully
Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
Dore. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Rambosson.  Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambosson, Laureate
of the Institute of France. Translated
by C. B. Pitman. Crown 8vo,
cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations,
and a beautifully executed Chart of
Spectra, 7s. 6 d.

Readers Handbook (The) of

Allusions, References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Third Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Crown Svo*, 1,400 pages, cloth extra,
73. 6d.

Richardson.  A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Reade (Charles, D.C.L.), Novels

by. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.
each ; or crown Svo, cloth extra, Illustrated,
3s. 6d. each.
Peg Wofflngton. Illustrated by S. L.
Files, A.R.A.

Christie Johnston. Illustrated by
William Small.

It Is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. PiNWELL.

The Course of True Love Never did
run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Paterson.

The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack
of all Trades; and James Lambert.

Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.

The Double Marriage. Illustrated
by Sir John Gilbert, R.A., and
Charles Keene.

The Cloister and the Hearth. Illustrated
by Charles Keene.

Hard Cash. Illustrated by F. W.
Lawson.

Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L,
FxLDES, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.

Foul Play. Illustrated by George
Du Maurier.

Put Yourself In His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated
by Helen Paterson, S. L. Fildes,
A.R.A., Charles Green, and Henry
Woods, A.R.A.

A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate
Crawford.

A Woman-hate. Illustrated by

Thos. Coulter.
Reading. With a Steel Plate Portrait

of Charles Reade.

A New Collection of Stories. In

T three Vols., crown Svo. [Preparing.

Ridden! (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Her Mother's Darling.

The Prince of Wales's Garden Party.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Our Old Country Towns. With over
50 Lusts. Sq. Svo, cloth gilt, lOs. 6d.

Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.

50 Illusts. Sq. Svo, cloth gilt, lOs. 6d.

About England with Dickens. With
SS Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer
and C. A. Vanderhoof. Square Svo,
cloth gilt, 10s. 6d.



Robinson (F. W.), Novels by:

Women are Strange. Cr. 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 23.

The Hands of Justice. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 33. 6d.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:
I ne Poets' Birds. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

The Poets' Beasts. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6cL [In preparation.

Robinson Crusoe : A beautiful

reproduction ot Alajor's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates by
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d. loo
Large-Paper copies, printed on hand-made
paper, with India proofs oi the
Illustrations, price 36s.

Rochefoucauld s Maxims and

Immoral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Saints
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Hands-ely printed,
price 53.

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.

Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.

More Puniana. Profusely Illustrated.

Russell (Clark. Round the

Galley-Fire. By W. Clark Russell,
Author of "The Wreck of the
Grosvenor." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Sala. Gaslight and Daylight.

Pay George Augustus Sala. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Sanson.  Seven Generations

ot Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (1688 to 1847). Edited
by Henry Sampson. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 33. 6d. 

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post Bvo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Bound to the V/heei.

One Against the World.

Guy Waterman.

The Lion in the Path.

The Two Dreamed's.

Science Gossip: An Illustrated

Medium of Interchange for Students
and Lovers of Nature. Edited by J. E.
Taylor, F.L.S., &c. Devoted to Geology,
Botany, Physiology, Chemistry,
Zoology, Microscopy, Telescope, Physiography,
&c. Price 4d. Monthly ; or
6s. per year, post free. It contains
Original Illustrated Articles by the
best known Writers and Workers of
the day. A Monthly Summary of Discovery
and Progress in every department
of Natural Science is given.
Large space is devoted to Scientific
Notes and Queries," thus enabling
every lover of nature to chronicle his
own original observations, or get his
special difficulties settled. For active
workers and collectors the " Exchange
Column" has long proved a well and
widely linown means of barter and
exchange. The column devoted to
"Answers to Correspondents " has been
found helpful to students requiring
personal help in naming specimens, &c.
The Volumes ot Science Gossip for the
last eighteen years contain an unbroken
History ol the advancement ot Natural
Science within that period. Each
Number contains a Coloured Plate
and numerous Woodcuts. Vols. I . to
XIV. may be had at 73. 6d. each ; and
Vols. XV. to XIX. (18S3), at 53. each.

"Secret Out" Series, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated,
43. 6d. each.

The Secret Out: One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations
; with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or " White
Magic." By W. H. Cremer. 300
Engravings.

The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or.

Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations.

The Art of Amusing : A Collection of
Graceful Arts, Games. Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades. By Frank Belleww,
With 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic,
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With many
Illustrations.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

The "Secret Out" Szjiis, continued
Magic No Mystery: Tricks with
Cards, Dice, Balls, &c., with fully
descriptive Directions; the Art of
Secret Writing; Training of Performing
Animals, &c. With Coloured
Frontispiece and many Illustrations.


Senior (William), Works by :

Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.
By Stream and Sea. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Man. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6g.

Shakespeare:

The First Folio Shakespeare. Mr.

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623.  A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process  ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.
The Vanstone Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moor Smith. Crown 4to, cloth
gilt, 6s.

The Handbook of Shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.

A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 83,

Shelley's Complete Works, in

Four Vols., post 8vo, cloth limp, 83. ;
or separately, 23. each. Vol. I. contains
his Early Poems, Queen Mab,
&c., with an Introduction by Leigh
Hunt; Vol. II., his Later Poems,
Lion and Cythna, &c. ; Vol. III.,
Posthumous Poems,the Shelley Papers,
&c. ; Vol. IV., his Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zas-
trozzi, St, Irvine, act

Sheridan's Complete Works,

with Life and Anecdotes. Including
his Dramatic Writings, printed from
the Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men.

With Historical and Explanatory
Notes by Samuel A. Bent, M.A.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Essay on the Poetry ol
Sidney, and Notes, t the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Thee Vols., crown
8vo, cloth boards, I83.

Signboards : Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Rotten. Crown 8vo, cloth extrii.
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sims (G. R.), Works by:

How the Poor Live. With 60 Illus
orations by Fred. Barnard. Largo
4to, Is.

Horrible London. Reprinted, with
Additions, from the Daily News.
Large 4to, 6d. [Shortly.

Sketches. A Match in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketches. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Slang Dictionary, The : Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d.

Smith (J. Moyr), Works by :

The Prince of Argolis: A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. By J. Moyr
Smith. Small 8vo, cloth extra, with
130 Illustrations, 3s. 6d.

Tales of Old Thule. Collected and
Illustrated by J. Moyr Smith.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated,
6S.

The Wooing of the Water Witch :
A Northern Oddity. By Evan Dal-corne.
Illustrated by J. Moyr
Smith. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

South-West, The New : Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New
Mexico.Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
By Ernst von Hesse-Wartegg.
With 100 line Illustrations and 3 Maps.
8vo, cloth extra, 14s. [In preparation.



Spalding.-Ellzabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of
the Belief in the Existence of Devils,
and the Powers possessed by Them.
By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 58.

Speight.  The Mysteries of

Heron Dyke. By T. W. Speight.
With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen
Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
38. Gd, ; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 28.

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. Tory. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 68.

Staunton.  Laws and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Games. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B. World. New
Edition, small or. 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Sterndaie.  The Afghan Knife:

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 33. cl; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 28.

Stevenson (Louis), Works by :

Travels with a Donkey In the
Cevennes. Frontispiece by Walter
Crane. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

An Inland Voyage. With a Frontispiece
by Walter Crane, Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Virginius Puisque, and other
Papers. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 68.

Familiar Studies of Men and Books.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

New Arabian Nights. Crown Svo,
cl. extra, 68. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 28.

The Silvered Squatters. With
Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

St. John.  A Levantine Family.
By Bayle St. John. Post Svo, ilius-
that ed boards, 23.

Stoddard.  Sinner Cruising

in the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Stoddard. Illustrated by
Wallis Mackay. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 38. 6d.

St. Pierre.  Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. Ey Bernardin
de St. Pierre. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
With Notices of their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Zim-
HERN ; and a Frontispiece Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. ci,

Struts's Sports and Pastimes

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions,
Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period
to the Present Time. With 140 Illustrations.
Edited by William Hone.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 78. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London : A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. With a Map
of Suburban London. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 78. 6d.

Sift s Choice Works, in Prose

and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Travels." Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 78. 6d.

Swinburne (Algerian C),

Works by:
The Queen Mother and Rosamond
Fcap. Svo, 53.

Atlanta In Corydon. Crown Svo, 63.
Chastened. Tragedy. Crown Svo,

7s.
Poems and Ballads. First Series.

Fcap. Svo, 93. Also in crown Svo,

at same price.

Poems and Ballads. Second Series.
Fcap. Svo, 93. Also in crown Svo, at
same price.

Notes on Poems and Reviews. Svo,

Is.
William Blake: A Critical Essay.

With Facsimile Paintings. Demy

Svo, 163.

Songs before Sunrise. Crown Svo,
108. 6d.

Bothwell: A Tragedy. Crown Svo,
123. 6d.

George Chapman : An Essay. Crown
Svo, 7s.

Songs of Two Nations. Cr. Svo, 6a.

Essays and Studies. Crown Svo, 123.

Erechtheus : Tragedy. Crown Svo,

63.
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. Svo, Is.

A Note on Charlotte Bronze. Crown
Svo, 6s.

A Study of Shakespeare. Crown

Svo, 8s.
Songs of the Springtide. Crown

Svo, 68.
studies In Song. Crown Svo. 7f.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

A. C. Swinburne's Works, continued 
Mary Stuart: A Tragedy. Crown

8vo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 93.
A Century of Roundels. Small 4to,

cloth extra, 83.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours:

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
Hotel. Medium 8vo, cl. extra , 7s. 6 d,.

Taine's History of English

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small 8vo,
cloth boards, 303.  Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 153.

Taylor (Dr).  The Sagacity

and Immorality of Plants: A Sketch
of the Life and Conduct of the Vegetable
Kingdom. By J. E. Taylor,
F.L.S., &c. With Coloured Frontispiece
and loo Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Post Svo, cl. limp, 2s.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas : " Chancery," " Jeanne
Dare," 'twixt Axe and Crown,"
"The Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's
Wife," "Anne Boleyn," "Plot and
Passion'' One Vol., crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

%* The Plays may also be had separately,
at Is. each.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.
Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading'. With Coloured
Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cressida.
Proud Malsle.
The Violin-Player.

Thomson'sSeason sand Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thomas (M.). A Fight for Life :

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

Thornbury (Walter), Works by

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W, Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illustrations in
Colours, facsimile from Turner's
Original Drawings. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Old Stories Re-told. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 23. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Times (John), Works by:

The History of Clubs and Club Life
In London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With numerous Illustrations.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Torrens.  The Marquess

Wellesley, Architect of Empire. An
Historic Portrait. By W. M. Torrens,
M.P. Demy Svo, cloth extra, 14s.

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

The Way We Live Now.

The American Senator.

Kept in the Dark.

Frau Frohmann.

Marion Fay.

Mr. Scarborough's Family. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
The Land Leaguers. Crown Svo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d. [Shortly.

TroIlope(FrancesE.),NoveIsby

Like Ships upon the Sea. Crown

Svo, cloth extra. 33. 6d. ; post Svo,

illustrated boards, 23.
Mabel's Progress. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.
Anne Furness. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.



TpolIope(T. A.).  Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
Thomas Adolphus Trollope. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d.; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 23.

Tatler (Sarah), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. Gd. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

Van Laun. History of French

Literature. By Henry Van Laun.
Complete in Three Vols., demy 8vo,
cloth boards, 73. 6d. each.

Villars.  A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villars, Fcap.
8vo, picture cover, la.

Walcott.  Church Work and

Life in English Minsters; and the
English Student's Monastic. By the
Rev. Mckenzie E. C. Walcott, B.D.
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with Map and Ground-Plans, 14s.

Walford (Edw.,M.A.),Worksby:

The County Families of the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c., of more than 12,000 distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. Twenty-fourth Annual Edition,
for 1884, cloth, full gilt, 508. [Shortly.

The Shilling Peerage (1884). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32mo, cloth. Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetage (1884).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth, Is. Published annually.

The Shilling Knightage (1884). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
cloth, Is. Published annually.

The Shilling House of Commons
(1884). Containing a List of all the
Members of the British Parliament,
their Town and Country Addresses,
fi:c. 32mo, cloth, l3. Published
annually,

Edw, Walford's Works, continued

The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1834). In One Volume,
royal 32mo, cloth extra, gUt edges,
63. Published annually.

Haunted London. By Walter
Thornbury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Walton andCotton'sComplete

Angler; or. The Contemplative Man's
Recreation; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crown 8vo, cloth antique, 73. 6d.

Wanderer's Library, The:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each.

Wanderings In Patagonia; or, Life
among the Ostrich Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

Merrier England in the Olden Time.
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by RoBT. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By

Thomas Frost.

The Old Nomen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James

Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hinder.

The World Behind the Scenes. By
Percy Fitzgerald.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings :
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Handley. With Illusts.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By E, P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

The Wanderer's Library, continued-the

Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Illustrations.


London Characters. By Hejjry May-hew.
Illustrated.
Seven Generations of Executioners :

Memoirs of the Sanson Family
(1688 to 1847). Edited by Henry
Sanson.
Summer Cruising In the South
Seas. By Charles Warren
Stoddard. Illustrated by Wallis
Mackay.

Warner.  A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Warrants, &c. :

Warrant to Execute Charles !. An

exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 23.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price
2s.

Magna Charta. An Exact Facsimile
of the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 53.

Th Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Price 53.

Westropp.  Handbook of Pottery
and Porcelain; or, History of
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Holder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List of
Marks. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 4s. 6d.

Whistler v. Ruskin: Art and

Art Critics. By J. A. Macneill
Whistler. Seventh Edition, square
8vo, Is.

Whites Natural History of

Melbourne. Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 23.

Williams (W. Mattie, F.R.A.S.),
Works by:

Science Notes. See the Gentleman's
Magazine. Is. Monthly.

Science in Short Chapters. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown
8vo, cloth limp, with Illusts., 2s. 61.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew, F.R.S.E.),

Works by:
Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development.
Second Edition. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
PostSvo, cloth limp, 2s. 6J,

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Second Edition. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Wilson (C.E.). Persian Wit and

Humour: Being the Sixth Book of
the Samaritan of Jamie, Translated
for the first time from the Original
Persian into English Prose and Verse.
With Notes by C. E. Wilson, M.R.A.S.,
Assistant Librarian Royal Academy of
Arts. Cr, Svo, parchment binding, 4s.

Winter (J. S.), Stories by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Cavalry Life.
Regimental Legends.

Wood.  Sabina: A Novel. By
Lady Wood. Post Svo, illustrated

boards, 23.

Words, Facts, and Phrases:

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and
Out-of-the-way Matters. By Believer
Edwards. Cr. Svo, half-bound, 12s. 6d.

Wright (Thomas), Works by:

Caricature History of the Georges.

(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, &c. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque In Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illustrated by F. W. Fairholt,
F.S.A. Large post Svo, cloth extra,
73. 6d.

Yates (Edmund), Novels by :

Post Svo, illustrated boards 23. each*
Castaway.
The Forlorn Hope
Land at Last.



NOVELS BY THE BEST AUTHORS.

At every Library.

Princess Napraxine. By Ouida.
Three Vols. shortly.

Dorothy Forster. By Walter
Besant. Three Vols. [shortly.

The New Abelard. By Robert Buchanan.
Three Vols.

Fancy-free, &c. By Charles Gibbon.
Three Vols.

lone. E. Lynn Linton. Three Vols.

The Way of the World. By D. Christie
Murray. Three Vols.

Maid of Athens. By JustinMcCarthy,
M.P. With 12 Illustrations by Feed.
Barnard. Three Vols.

The Canon's Ward. By James Payn.
Three Vols.

A Real Queen.

Three Vols.

By R. E. Francisco.

A New Collection of Stories by
Charles Reads. Three Vols.

[In preparation.

THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.

Popular Stories by the Best Authors,
crown 8vo, cloth

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY W. BBS A NT & JAMES RICE.
ready-Money Mortify.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Lucpaft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BE S A NT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.

& BY ROBERT BUCHANAN,
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever.
Juliet's Guardian.

Library Editions, many Illustrated,
extra, 3s. 6d. each.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antonio.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. ?

New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTv/o Destinies
Haunted Hotel
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart asxd Science

BY BUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY JAMES DE MILLS.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lover*

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued 
BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Love!.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. | Queen Cophetua.

One by One.

Prefaced by Sir Battle Free.
Pandurang Hard.

BY EDWARD GARRETT,
The Cape! Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
In Love and War.
What will the World Says
For the King.
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
In Pastures Green.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Golden Shaft.
Of High Degree.

BY THOMAS HARDY,
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth.

Ellice Question.
Sebastian Strong.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Dust.
Fortune's Fool.

BY SIR A. HELPS,
Ivan de Iron.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo,
Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, Jun.
Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Queen of Connaught
The Dark Colleen.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY,
Number Seventeen.
Oakshott Castle.

Piccadilly Novels, continued-
BY E. LYNN LINTON,
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Lean Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love!"

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

The Watergate Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
Linley Rochford. | A Fair Saxon.
Dear Lady Disdain.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D,
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
Lost Rose. I The Evil Eye.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame ! | Written in Fire

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.

Coals of Fire.
Vai Strange.
Hearts.

Life's Atonement

Joseph's Coat.

A Model Father.

By the Gate of the Sea.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MARGARET A. PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir massinger.


Best of Husbands
Fallen Fortunes.
Halves.

Psalter's Word.
What He Cost Hep
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.

High Spirits.

Under One Roof.

Carlyon's Year.

A Confidential
Agent.

From Exile.

A Grape from a
Thorn.

For Cash Only.

Kit : A Memory.



CHEAP EDITIONS OF
Post 8vo, illustrated

BY Edmund ABOUT,
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON aside.
Carp of Carrion. I Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY Shelley Beauchamp.
Grantly Grange.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
V/ith Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.

POPULAR NOVELS.

boards, 2s. each.

By Besant and Rice, continued 
By Celia's Ardour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.
All Sorts and Conditions of Mer.
The Captains' Room.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. ] Savage Life.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Californian Stories.
Gabriel Convoy. | Flip.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
ROBERT BUCHANAN,
The Shadow of the Sword.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.

BY MRS. BURNETT,
Surly Tim.

BY MRS. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever. I Juliet's Guardian.

BY MACLAREN COBBAN.
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Miss or Mrs. ?
The New Magdalen.

The Frozen Deep.
Law and the Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebei'sDaughter
The Black Robe.

Anton etna.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.

Sweet Anne Page.

Transmigration.

From Midnight to Midnight.

A Fight with Fortune.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Leo. 1 Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT,
Our Lady of Tears.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz.
The Pickwick Papers.
Oliver Twist-nicholas
Nickleby.
BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
c< Point of Honour. | Archie Lovell.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS,
Felicia. I Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUB.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. 1 Queen Cophetua.

One by One.
Prefaced by Sir H. Battle Free,
Pandurang Harl.

BY Pain FRISWELL.
One of Two.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capet Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.

Queen of the Meo:

dow.
In Pastures Green

The Flower of the

Forest.
A Heart's Problem

The Braes of Yarrow.


Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
What will the

World Say?
In Honour Bound.
The Dead Heart.
In Love and War.
For the King.

BY WILLIAM GILBERT,
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke

BY yates GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY ANDREW HALLWAY. .
Every-Day Papers.

BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Winter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.
BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroma

Ellice Quentln. I Dust.
Prince Saronl's Wife.

BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS,
Ivan de Iron.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER,
The House of Ray.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
The Hunchback of Notre Dame.



Cheap Popular Novels, continued

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornlcpoft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY,
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY HENRY KINGS LEY.
Oakshott Castle. | Number Seventeen

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love!"

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.

Dear Lady Disdain.

The Watergate Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

A Fair Saxon.

Linley Rochford.

Miss Misanthrope.

Donna Quixote.

The Comet of a Season.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. MACDQNELL.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRYAT.
Open! Sesame!
A Harvest of Wild
Oats.

A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.
Written In Fire.

BY J. Waterman
Half-a-dozen Daughters.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorllllon.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued-
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
A Life's Atonement.
A Model Father.
Joseph's Coat.
Coals of Fire.
By the Gate of the Sea.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT,
Whiteladles.
BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY O

Held In Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-maine.


Tricotrin.

Puck.

Folia Farina.

A Dog of Flanders.

Pascal.

Unda.

TwoLittlaWooden

Shoes.
Signa.

In a Winter City.
Ariadne.
Friendship.
Moths.
Pipistrelio.

A Village Commune.

Bimbl.
In Maremma.

BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL,
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir massinger.


A Perfect Treasure.


Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.


Cecil's Tryst.

fclyfTards of Clyffe

The FamiiyScape-

grace.
Foster Brothers.
Found Dead.
Best of Husbands
Walter's Word.
Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.
What He Cost Her
Humorous Stories
Gwendolen's Har-like

Father, Like
Son.

A Marine Residence.


Married Beneath
Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, bit

Von.
200 Reward.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlyon's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.

Some Private

Views.
From Exile.

A Grape from 
Thorn.

For Cash Only.

vest.

BY EDGAR A. POE.
The Mystery of Marie Roget

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY CHATTO S- WINDUS.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentine.

BY CHARLES READE.
It Is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash.
Peg Wofflngton.
Christie Johnston.
Griffith Gaunt.
Put Yourself in His Place.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
Autobiography of a Thief.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater.
Reading.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell,
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden Party.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.

BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SAL A,
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS,
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion in the Path.
Two Dreamers.

BY ARTHUR SKETCIILEY.
A Match in the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON.
New Arabian Nights.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. | Proud Malsle.

The VioIin-PIayep.

BY W. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY WALTER THORNBURY.

Tales for the Marines.

BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPS.

Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPS.

The Way We Live Now.

The American Senator.

Frau Frohmann.

Marian Fay.

Kept in the Dark.
By FRANCES ELEANORTROLLOPE

Like Ships Upon the Sea.

BY MARK TWAIN.
Tom Sawyer.
An Idle Excursion.

A Pleasure Trip on the Continent

of Europe.
A Tramp Abroad.
The Stolen White Elephant.
BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends.

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrol.

Why Paul Ferrol Killed his Wife.

Fcap. 8vo, picture covers. Is. each.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte.

The Twins of Table Mountain. By

Bret Harte,

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By

Julian Hawthorne.

Kathleen Mavourneen, By Author
of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."

Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of
That Lass o' Lowrie's."

Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the
Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."

Trooping with Crows. By Mrs.

PiRKIS.

The Professor's Wife. By Leonard
Graham.

A Double Bond. By Linda Villars.

Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francisco.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Jerrold.

|. OGDEN and CO., PRINTERS, 172, ST. JOHN Street. B.Oj

{ '-V

3 0112 047687956

t<r.

%

iTt,

V

LJi

mm

Ch

iStmtmimiimm'igmim

  * -t -r  *

(0

'.ril

CENTRAL CIRCULATION BOOKSTACKS

e pon charging tWs material is responsible
for its return to the l.branfr
which it was borrowed on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

for dUclpllnory action and may resuii m
TO ."Sw 2[Ll nUPHOHE Center. MS-400

3 im

JUL 2 1592



i\

\

  t> r.Virknp write new due date below
When renewing by none, wnic ucw 

previous due date

FOXGLOVE MANOR. By Robert Buchanan.

Princess NAPRAXINE. By Ouida.

DOROTHY FORSTER. By Walter Besant.

A DRAWN GAME. By Basil

SAINT MUNGO'S CITY. By Sarah Tatler.

HEART SALVAGE BY SEA AND LAND. By
Mrs. Cooper.

CHATTO AND WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

 0\)t\

By SARAH Tatler

AUTHOR OF 'the BRIDE's PASS,' ' WHAT SHE CAME THROUGH,'
'saint MUNGO's CITY,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. in.

H n tJ It

CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[A/I rights reserved]

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/beautybeastnovel03tytl

Discontents

OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER PAGE

XXVIII. REPARATION - 1

XXIX. YOUTH STRIVES - - - - 17

XXX. AGE PLEADS - - - - - 50

XXXI. MARIANNE Dundalk - - ' - - 63

XXXII. LADY termor's YOUNG PEOPLE - - 80

XXXIII. GREENWICH AND THE ACADEMY - - 105

XXXIV. ON THE BORDERS - - - 131

XXXV. A RAINY DAY IN PERILOUS QUARTERS - 155

XXXVI. THE BEAST RISES UP A PRINCE - - 193

XXXVII. THE LAW OF THE LAND - - 208

XXXVIII. A FLAG OF TRUCE - - 232

XXXIX. A SUITOR - 251

XL. FALSE SEEMING . - - - 274

XLI. THE WRONG ROOM - - - - 289

CHAPTER Xxviii.

REPARATION.

Lady Fermor gave no token of missing the
girl who had been her companion for the
last twenty years. The old lady awoke and
breakfasted, read the newspapers or got
Soames to read them to her, took her stroll
on the terrace, ate her luncheon, had her
afternoon drive, her nap, her dinner, her
evening game of ecarte if Major Pollock
dropped in, and, failing him, she condescended
to a game at cribbage with Soames, retired
to bed, and slept apparently without a care
on her mind or a feather's weight on her
conscience. She had always boasted that,
though she was fond of company in her day,
VOL. III. 40

she could suffice for herself, and it looked like
it. To the few visitors who, remembering
Lady Fermor s position in the county, her
age and isolation, made a point of inquiring
for her, she merely alluded to Iris's absence
without stating its cause or term ; and when
it was Lady Fermor's will to keep her own
counsel, not many people would venture to
dispute the point with her. Even Lucy,
with the rest of the Acton family and Lady
Thwaite, who were the most surprised and
perplexed at the unexpected, unexplained,
undefined visit somewhere, to somebody,
which Iris was paying, submitted to be kept
for a while in ignorance. Nobody had a
right to intermeddle, nobody suspected even
so formidable an old lady as Lady Fermor
of making away with her grandchild  still
there was something mysterious about the
manner in which Iris Compton had vanished
from her friends' ken, though they easily
learnt that she had left openly, in broad day,
in the Lambford carriage, and taken the
afternoon train to London in the most prosaic
matter-of-fact fashion. The mystery began
to make itself felt, so that within a fortnight
of the event Lady Former's' tranquillity was

disturbed, and she was assailed and called to
account in her own house, which ought to
have been her castle.

Lady Fermor had returned from her afternoon
drive, and ozone into her drawings-room
for half an hour, when a message was brought
to her from a former friend  a man who had
forgotten the habit of sending in a card almost
as soon as he had acquired it, who had arrived
at the frame of mind when forms and ceremonies
were indifferent to him. If he remembered
them, good and well ; why not
comply with them if they were a matter of
use and wont, and of satisfaction to anybody?
If he forgot them, good and well also ; what
did they signify after all to any creature with
a reasonable judgment and a soul to be saved?
Sir William Thwaite could bid a servant tell
Lady Fermor that he wished to see her, and
he forgot himself to such a degree that it
was exactly what he said. He had not the
suavity to add, ' By her ladyship's leave,' or
If the call is convenient for her,' notwithstanding
he had long ceased to be a daily
visitor at Lambford. He had not been there
since \hQ night of Miss Compton's ball. He
had not spoken to Lady Fermor since she

402

left him in a rage, in the teeth of a thunderstorm
after her last visit to Whitehills. He
had been a husband and a widower in the
interval.

As the message was delivered to the
venerable woman, her sunken eyes gave a
-warlike flash, and she managed to sit erect
after she had snapped out the two words,
Admit him.' When it came to that, strife,
and not peace, was her natural element. In
spite of her years, a tough encounter, a rousing
contention, a battle of words were more acceptable
to her than sluggish rest.

Sir William came to his former haunt,
looking too stern to be lightly discomposed
and discomfited. He gave a hurried glance
round while he was mechanically saying
Good-morning' to his former ally, and hoping
he saw her well ; and the sternness was intensified
on a face which, when it was not lit
up with a smile, had always been more the
type of a certain form of comely strength than
of physiognomical sunshine and sweetness.

It is a treat to see you nowadays. Sir
William,' said Lady Fermor tentatively,
motioning him to a seat beside her.

But he did not sit down, and he did not

answer her, save by telling his errand with
brutal straightforwardness. * "Where is Miss
Compton, Lady Fermor 1*

Why do you ask ?' she parried his question
with the utmost coolness and intrepidity,
while her eyes twinkled maliciously.

'Because I am determined to know he
answered after an instant's pause.

*And by what right do you claim to be
made acquainted with my grand-daughter's
whereabouts X she repeated her counter-challenge.
' Really, Sir William, you were
always an original, and at one time, I believe,
I rather liked your originality ; but that time
is past, and there are limits even to good
things.'

Her sarcasm did not ruffle his mood. He
had ceased to wince at the prick of such
weapons ; and he was able to proclaim a
right which in his e3'es was all-sufficient to
authorize his presence and interrogation,
You were willing to give her and her
happiness into my keeping once. Is not
that enough to entitle me to ask what has
come to her V

Very little has come to her, as you say,
that I know of,' answered Lady Fermor with

an insolent criticism of his English, and with
exasperating nonchalance. ' If she had many
rejected lovers it would be an awkward precedent
to establish that each man might come
and bore me with his curiosity to hear the
last news of his old flame. But she was not
much of a belle, poor thing !  and, to tell the
truth, I do not know that she had the glory
of dismissing any suitor, save one ; therefore,
I do not mind saying to you that I know
nothing about her.'

It ain't possible,' he cried hotly; ' she was
in your care. Women of your class don't let
girls go out into the world on their own hook,
to do what they like, without having somebody
to look after them. Your notion is,
that girls cannot take care of themselves no
more than if they were babies.'

'And I dare say we are right,' she interjected
briskly.

And you make and keep them helpless,'
he went on without appearing to pay any
attention to her, ' till they are too delicate
and dainty to stand on their own feet and
make their own way. I know she isn't like
that, and I haven't such a bad opinion of the
world as to think that there are many, either

gentle or simple, that would harm her. But
it ain't kind or considerate that she should be
exposed to what another young lady could
not face ; and, though she may not be right-down
harmed, she may be frightened and
worried. Lady Fermor, I insist on your
giving me satisfaction.'

In my day it was gentlemen who gave
each other satisfaction,' said Lady Fermor
airily ; ' a good manly custom which, like
some other customs not half so bad as they
were called, has passed away; but let them
go  they served my time. I assure you, Sir
William, I am not accountable for the young
lady in whom you are pleased to take so
deep an interest. I am sorry not to have it
in my power to say she returns it, or would
thank you for it,' with a little mocking, palsied
bow to her listener.  She took our relations,
hers and mine, into her own hands. According
to your definition, she assumed the privilege
of the lower orders. She said it was
better we should part ; she could not stay
any longer with me. I am too old a woman
to pretend to fight with disobedient, undutiful
girls or boys either, even though they are my
grandchildren. She said she would go, and

she went  there is the long and the short
of it

Before it came to that, my lady, you had
something to answer for,' said Sir William,
gulping down what was sticking in his throat.

Now, don't you think this is getting tiresome
T suggested Lady Fermor. * I have
told you the truth, which, whatever you may
believe, you have no earthly call to swagger
here and demand from me. May I beg you
to spare me your reflections on it, and to cut
short your visit ? Don't you see, man,
I have come in from a drive, and am
tired V

I cannot help it,' he protested, but in the
middle of the rudeness he pushed a foot-stool
under her feet, and caught up a cushion to
place at her back. Kerne bering former
services of the same kind, rendered under
different circumstances and highly valued
then, the wicked old face twitched and softened
a little, though it relapsed the next
moment into its malice and hardness.

You don't mean to say you let her go
like that V he persisted, still standing like an
avenging giant before a hard-hearted witch.
You never asked her where she was to turn

to % You are not acquainted with any friend
she might seek 1'

No,' she had the coarseness and cruelty
to answer him ; * it is not always advisable
to ask too many questions. We women are
not often without friends at Iris's age ; and
we don't always care to publish the road
we mean to follow. It is a pleasant enough
road at starting, whatever you men may
make of it in the end.'

It is a shameful lie !' he said, speaking
his mind without the slightest reservation,
while his fresh-coloured face darkened to a
dusky red, and the veins on his forehead,
within the curves of chestnut hair, stood out
knotted like whipcord. ' By George, if you
were a man, though you were a prince, I
would not stand to hear it. You are an old
woman and my lady ; but I say you have
spoken an infamous slander against your
own flesh and blood, as much above you as
heaven is above earth. Where is your
natural womanly feeling, your mother's heart,
Lady Fermor ? I was a fool to come near
you, unless to speak a bit of my mind, and
denounce you in the place where you be-fooled
me.*

Something in his air and attitude smote
the rock of her nature on which his words
had struck in vain. She shrank and cowered
a Httle, and collapsed into the feebleness of
her years.

Don't she implored, ' don't you curse
me ; you are like  like a friend I had once.
Never mind who it was. I saw the likeness
the first day we met, and took a fancy for
you, and did my best to serve you. I don't
deserve this treatment from you, Thwaite,
but I am ready to give you satisfaction  all
the satisfaction I can. That goose of a girl
you think so much of, though she don't care
a straw for you, and she ain't worth your
trouble  well, let that be  she never told me
where she was going, and I am not bound to
know ; but she is no more fit to carry out a
plot than that Spanish ass, Don Quixote.
She behaved like a simpleton, as you may be
sure. Her baggage was addressed to the
care of a sister of a canting mischief-making
governess the child once had, and
her ticket was taken to London. She had
money for her board for three months. I
can give you the address if you care to have
it, though I don't see what good it will do

you now. Sir William, will you go and leave
me alone in peace, and don't come back to
haunt me in another person's guise on my
dying bed.'

No, I want to do something better than
that,' he said, half with lingering fury, half
in gruff relenting and concession to their old
friendly relations. 'You say you took a
fancy for me, and meant well by me. I am
willing to believe you, though it was a fancy
which played me strange tricks, and went
far to my undoing. I was not ungrateful,
whatever you may think. I take it you have
not so many true friends to call your own at
the close of your long life that you should
shake off this one and that one  your granddaughter,
as good as gold, or even a rough,
little-worth fellow like me. Why in the
name of goodness should you not go after
Miss Compton, find her, and be a loving
grandmother to her, as I am sure she would
be a loving child to you, if you would let
herr

Because it ain't in me, Thwaite,' replied
her ladyship, with returning coolness and
candour.  You must be a bad reader of
character, if you cannot decipher that.

*' Loving grandmother," indeed ! Bah ! I
leave that to your tame old body who has
kissed her faithless tyrant's feet, and run
after her prodigal sons and fast daughters,
until in the evening of her days she is content
to sit chirping and snivelling over her
mischievous brats of grandchildren

He was not to be diverted from his aim.

 You say Miss Compton has the payment
of her board, among people you disapprove
of, for a month or two. What is she to do
then ? What is she to think now as to what
is to become of her afterwards ? Will you
let her feel herself forsaken by man ?  not by
God. You cannot touch her there.' He
broke off in a low tone with a mixture of
reverence and tenderness  the true chivalrous
devotion, very different from any species
of love poor Lady Termor had ever given or
taken, shining in his blue eyes. *You do
not intend Lord Fermor's grand-daughter to
beg her board from strangers, or to hire herself
out for a wage, do you % though she
might count it no dishonour to make service
honourable by discharging it.'

She has chosen her course, and she must
abide by it, ay, and eat the fruit of her

folly argued the old woman, before she
changed her cue, and suddenly made a concession.
' If I do anything more for Iris
Compton, it will be as a favour to you,
Thwaite. The hussy  or the angel, if you
prefer it  shall owe my forgiveness to you.
That will be something for her pride to
swallow, though I fear you have lost the
spirit to cast it in her teeth.'

Powerful as Sir William's championship
had been, this was not exactly true. It was
a fact that Lady Fermor, like most women
of strong passions, had possessed little
natural affection. The passions had burnt
themselves out, but in their ashes there were
few elements for the growth of the domestic
charities. Still, there were bounds to her
callousness and vindictiveness. Stoically as
she had borne herself, it was impossible for
her not to have experienced twinges of compunction
for the grand-daughter of Lord
Fermor, the wrinkled, tottering woman's
lover in the days of her prime, who had
wedded her dishonour, and crowned her
with all the gifts of fortune he could bestow
to the last. Lady Fermor had driven this
girl, as Sir William had put it from the

dignity and ease of Lambford, to beg her
bread or to hire herself out for a wage. In
the end the old woman might not be unwilling,
for more reasons than one, to yield
to his advocacy, giving it all the credit in
order to save her own consistency ; while
underneath the veil she appeased her grizzly
ghost of a conscience, and retained the rags
of reputation she had recovered in the
world.

Thanks,* he said shortly ; and then,
fearing to displease her, and turn her from
her cautious admission, he forced himself to
protest, ' I'll stand no end indebted to you
if you do this kindness to yourself and Miss
Compton at my bidding. But what you
mean to do, you ought to set about quickly.'
He betrayed his doubt and anxiety in his
last hesitating words.

'You are in a great hurry, Thwaite,' observed
Lady Fermor sarcastically. * I suppose
you see I have my bonnet on my
head, and you think I shall be ready to stir
my old bones and rise and run after a flighty
fool of twenty or thereabouts. Much obliged
for your consideration for my age and infirmities.
You had better order the carriage

back at once, and ride on before, and get a
ticket for London, and let me start napless
and dinnerless. I should arrive dizzy and
starving before midnight. I dare say I
might knock about for a bed, or if I found
my way to Fitzroy Square, perhaps my good
grand-daughter would have the common
humanity to lend me hers for what remained
of the night.'

You are talking nonsense he said
bluntly, staring at her,  but you will go upto
London, and seek out Miss Compton 
won't you T

I may, if you will be my escort. I have
never been accustomed to travel without a
squire,' she said with a kind of ghastly
coquetry. 'When I was younger, a good
deal younger, I used to have half-a-dozen
sparks and beaux at my disposal. As it is,
I am not so strong and nimble as Iris
Compton. By-the-bye, I'm not at all sure
that she will give in, and consent to put
herself under my wing again. Disobedience
is a virulent as well as a common complaint
nowadays. I shall need all the foreign support
I can get. Yours may not be very
available in this case, but it is better than

none. To be sure, my young lady may have
eaten her leek and changed her mind, while
another person has had time and reason
enough to alter his opinion. I shan't blame
him, though I am reduced to wonder whether
he has attacked me out of a spirit of contradiction
and devilry, or from mere mawkish
magnanimity, pity, and such-like stuff.'

She looked at him sharply. He returned
her glance coldly, and dismissed her wonder
with a formal ' Good-afternoon, Lady Former.
I shall see you to London if you like,
at whatever time you fix upon,' as he left
her.

That night Bill Rogers was considerably
impressed by finding himself put in authority
at Whitehills, while his master held himself
in readiness to start any day for London.

YOUTH Strives.

Iris had reached London in safety ; she
had found Mrs. Haigh, a fat, florid, overdressed
woman, not inhospitable, not unfriendly
 far from it. But Iris had not
found another Miss Burrage  it would have
been unreasonable to expect it in the matron
who was in an extraordinary flutter of
mingled pride and alarm at having Lord and
Lady Fermor's grand-daughter again under
Mrs. Haigh's roof Iris's presence lent a
glorious distinction to the upper middle-class
boarding-house, but it might be drawing
down upon the hostess the wrath of ' the
combined aristocracy '  and the combined
aristocracy must be an awful power indeed 
because of Mrs. Haio-h's aiding and abetting
insubordination in their ranks and desertion
from their leaders.

VOL. III. 41

\

I



Iris had said honestly : * I am sorry to say
grand mamma and I have not been happy
together lately, Mrs. Haigh. Perhaps my
dear old friend. Miss Barrage, may have said
something long ago, which will help you to
understand matters. I don't mean that I am
not to blame. No doubt I have failed intact
and patience, and a thousand things,
but the painful fact remains that we have
not got on well together. Now I have left
Lambford with Lady Fermor's knowledge,
and come up to town to ask if you will take
me in, till I see what is to become of me.'

Of course Mrs. Haigh would take Iris in.
What mistress of a boarding establishment,
unless she were a very exceptional person,
would refuse receive a peer's grand-daughter,
looking as Iris looked, wearing the dress she
wore, even if there had not been the old
family connection of which Mrs. Haigh had
boasted for the last fifteen years ?

Mrs. Haigh was soon satisfied that Iris,
though she as good as announced that she
had quarrelled with her grandmother, was
neither impecunious in the meantime, nor
possessed by any romantic delusion of
throwing herself on the devotion of ancient

allies, and living on air, her dignity, and their
worshipping commiseration. When this important
Httle item was agreeably settled to
Mrs. Haigh's practical mind, she had nothing
to disturb her but the apprehension of Lady
Former's displeasure, and that vague horror
of the wrath of the combined aristocracy
which was not without its breathless charm,
like the coveted terror produced by an exciting
ghost story. Certainly Mrs. Haigh was
aware that Lady Fermor had been a very
formidable, unmanageable person, though
she ought by this time to be in her dotage.
But whether doting or not, surely she would
rather have her grand-daughter in Fitzroy
Square, with highly respectable people of
whom her ladyship knew something, than
wandering through the world without chaperon
or companion  a deplorably compromising
style which was not to be 'thought of
for a moment, which Mrs. Haigh would never
have listened to where her own daughter
Jura was concerned. Lady Fermor ought
rather to feel relieved and grateful when she
heard Mrs. Haigh's name mentioned in the
light of a temporary guardian for Miss
Compton.

412

Having persuaded herself of this qualification
to Lady Fermor's displeasure, Mrs. Haigh
was at liberty to rejoice in the acquisition to
her circle, even though her reason whispered
it could not be permanent. Its reflected eclat
might long survive its actual existence, and
while it lasted the mistress of the house could
load Iris with overpowering attentions. She
Mrs. Haigh  could insist on Miss Compton's
taking precedence of the other lady-lodgers,
who, to do them justice, evinced no
radical or communistic principles on this
point, but were more than willing to give
way to Iris if she would but shed upon them
a share of the light of her aristocratic countenance.


Her false position hurt Iris, though she did
not attribute it wholly to snobbishness and
vulgarity. She knew there was a subtle
attraction in rank, and though she both
laughed and winced at the application of the
attraction to herself, in her present circumstances,
she was honest enough to own that
she too would have deferred to a duchess,
especially if she had been of the blood royal,
and that a similar homage might only be
different in degree. But a duchess without

a home, a duchess who was anxiously meditating
how she might earn her bread, had
better not have the trappings of her original
estate brandished before her ; she ought to
keep them in the background as much as
possible, and take up her position on a common
level.

Iris was vexed that Mrs. Haigh would
constantly speak of her and to her as ' Lady
Fermor's grand-daughter.' The excellent
woman would even betray at once her ignorance
and vanity, by bestowing on Iris a
handle to her name to which she was not
entitled. Mrs. Haigh always called Iris the
Honourable Miss Compton, and considered it
foolish modesty and shyness  perhaps a little
hauteur in disguise  when the girl first
hinted, and then said plainly, that neither
the Herald's Office nor Debrett would
authorize the use of such a privilege.

Iris was still more wounded when she had
reason to suspect that Mrs. Haigh, in her
incessant reference to Lambford and Lady
Fermor, did not refrain from imparting in
mysterious whispers, to chosen members of
her circle, the scandals with which [the name
had been associated, or else, by nods and

shrugs and hinted innuendoes, refreshed her
ladies' and gentlemen's memories on the subject.
She was irreproachable in her own
morals, yet she seemed to take a warped
pride in what she was pleased to view as
aristocratic iniquities.

These ladies and gentlemen were perfectly
respectable, better-class 'pensionnaires.
Though the ladies had the priority by courteous
phrase, the gentlemen were really the
ruling power in the establishment, as they
still are in the world. Whether married or
single, from the bachelor confidential clerk ina
tremendously great banking establishment,
to the retired clergyman and half-pay officers,
they all paid board in full ; and as they were
the members of the establishment who were
the most out of the house at their offices and
clubs during the day, the gentlemen were
supposed to give the least trouble to their
hostess.

But the supposition was in a great measure
a delusion. It was for the gentlemen's appetite
and tastes that Mrs. Haigh catered most
sedulously ; it was the gentlemen's evening
rubber that she guarded from interruption
most carefully. Wives sometimes saved her

the trouble of ascertaining their husbands'
inclinations, and providing for the men's
recreations, by proving beyond mistake that
the women were the better horses in the
matrimonial traces  were it only in the confident
assertion of their inclinations and of
their amusements as the first to be considered
by their submissive husbands, and, after them,
by the rest of creation. But in that case
there was merely a reversal of relations, and
these potent wives filled their husbands' shoes
and represented the men in the boardinghouse.
The other women  especially the
single women  did not fare the better for the
exceptions to the supremacy of the men, and
to the natural deference shown them by the
women.

Some of the spinsters were ladies in reduced
circumstances, and paid Mrs. Haigh a
smaller board for rooms nearer the sky, and
for inferior attendance generally, with which,
in strict justice and logic, these half-indigent
gentlewomen ought to have been contented.
But the fact was they employed a considerable
amount of their time either in jealous
inspection of the better position of their
neighbours, and muttered grumbling over

their own wants, or in high-saluting, ostentatious
professions of indifference to circumstances,
or else in judicious, assiduous attentions
to their better-off companions  attentions
which had their reward.

To the single ladies, more than all the
other inhabitants of the house, Iris's advent
was a windfall. For once the spinsters felt
equal to the men and to the married women,
who, by force of character or temper, were as
good as the men, or who merely held on by
the skirts of their individual partners. The
other maidens, however ancient, shared in
the fuss made about a girl, in the special
consideration lavished on her  with much of
which she would willingly have dispensed 
as if it had been a tribute to the whole body
of unprotected females.

In return for the homage paid to her  or
rather to Lady Fermor's grand-daughter  
Iris made figuratively a series of courteous
bows, and sought to possess her soul in
patience like a princess on a royal progress.
But, although in her faith, hope, and charity  
which, after all the sneers liberally launched
at these graces and their Christian origin, areas
trustworthy touchstones as any that have

yet been found for use in the motley crowd of
life  Iris had no doubt that there was more
than sufficient to respect, like, and inspire
interest in her fellow-boarders, if one only
knew them better, and held the clue to the
true life beneath the conventional ; still,
looking only on the surface, she did not find
material which attracted her particularly in
any of the members of the large family under
Mrs. Haigh's roof.

Iris was not absorbed, to the withdrawal of
her mind from her personal affairs, in the
rich, stiffened, silent, white-haired clerk of so
great a banking-house, that even its first
clerk was surrounded by a nimbus of golden
influence and responsibility.

She did noo yield to the lively fascinations
of Captain Boscawen, who knew all the
gossip of the best society, and being affable,
gallant, and chatty, was a favourite with
most of the ladies. She was not even greatly
touched by the Rev. Edward Calcott, a
younger man than the first two heroes. He
had been forced to retire from his vicar's
charge on account of an abiding relaxed
throat and weak chest, and was, therefore, asa
clergyman and a confirmed invalid, invested

with the double attributes of a spiritual
director and an object of tender sympathy to
every soft heart. Iris was sorry for him,
but her heart was not so soft in this quarter
as to prevent her perceiving that he was both
self-conscious and self-indulgent; so she left
the nursing of him to his wife, and kept her
spiritual concerns out of his reach.

Iris was not more won by the ladies  from
bluff Mrs. Judge Penfold, who, arguing from
her title, had appropriated her husband's
office as well as the reins of his phaeton 
wherever the colonial law authority himself,
bridled and saddled, was driven metaphorically
 down to little Mrs. Hugely.

The last was an inconsolable pretty young
widow, who, to the envy of the remaining
men, sat bereft at the Rev. Edward's feet ;
yet she was able to take the deepest interest
in the exact fit of her widow's gown and the
becoming shape of her bonnet, and pensively
asked her friends' advice whether scarlet
flowers were not admissible after the first
stage of mourning was past ? Her lost love
had always liked her with scarlet, and entire
black was really too trying for a brunette
complexion.

Iris had received a blow in finding Mrs.
Haiofh so unlike Miss Burraoe, and the blow
was not softened, neither was the likeness
increased, on the only occasion when the
girl spoke of her best friend to that friend's
sister.

Mrs. Haigh twinkled away a facile tear,
indeed, and expressed her thankfulness for
having had her dear Emily in Mrs. Haigh's
house, to be waited upon by her during the
good soul's last illness.

lb was a great privilege, Miss Compton;
you who knew her, and who, I may say, washer
pet pupil, can guess how uncomplaining,
considerate, even cheerful, she was to the
very last.'

But Mrs. Haiofh was honest in her thick-mindedness,
and absence of deep or delicate
or abiding feelings. She added, innocently
enough, in the next breath :

It was a mercy the illness was short, for
it saved the dear saint a great deal of suffering
; and to have had her lying long here, or
even lingering on, neither ill nor well, unfit
for duty, without a sufficient provision for
her needs, a burden to herself and others  as,
between ourselves, I think Mr. Calcott is

sometimes, when he murmurs so at his
chimney smoking, and objects to the piano
being played after certain hours  would have
been more than I could have undertaken,
with my husband and children and the care
of a boarding-house on my hands. When
one comes to think of it all,' reflected Mrs.
Haigh with a species of complacency, * darling
Emily was not suited for this world. She
was an excellent creature, but she was painfully
plain from a girl. She had ability and
accomplishments ; but she had no manners
that I could see  though, of course, we know
she lived in the best society  no * go " or
dash. She could not relish what most people
enjoy. To dress what I call well became a
bore to her. She was not fond of shopping
or calling or dining out, and hardly cared fora
box or a stall at the opera or the theatre,
unless the play or the opera, as well as the
singers and actors, chanced to be exceptional.
She pottered about more than she was able
among humdrum, fallen-down people she had
known long ago, or sick or poor people. She
had a regard for out-of-the-way churches and
eccentric clergymen that few people save
herself had heard of or cared for. Put her

down with a book she Used and her work,
and the world held little more attraction for
her. No, poor dear Emily was not a woman
for this world. She was a woman to be overlooked
and slighted  which she did not mind,
for she had rather a lack of spirit and proper
pride. She was apt to be smiled at, for she
had her little peculiarities, dear soul I though
she was my sister  and jostled against and
trampled upon, as the world goes. I trust
she is far better off where she has gone, poor
love r

She was a woman of whom the world
was not worthy, Mrs. Haigh,' said Iris
hotly.

To compare Miss Burrage to Mr. Calcott !
To have been capable of thinking of her as a
possible burden, and so finding her premature
death in one light a boon, instead of wrestling
with God that the loved presence might be
spared for a season, and yearning to keep it
here so honos as life lingered in the feeble
frame, and sense and love on the peaceful,
wasted brow and lips ! There might
have been a kind of selfishness in the
struggle, and the anguish, and the contest for
another with the last foe, in the dumb

despair and hopeless rebellion, which only
God could change into resignation; but it
was the involuntary, inevitable protest against
the separation which, though it be but for a
time, is, next to sin, the sting of death and
the mortal terror and great tribulation of
true love.

What would not Iris have given to have
seen her old friend's dear face again, though
it had come but in a vision of the night  to
have heard her wise, gentle counsel, though
it had been only in a dream I

Iris was not disappointed in Mr. Haigh as
she was in Mrs. Haigh. He was only Miss
Burrage's brother-in-law, by Mrs. Haigh's
election, not a member of Miss Burrage's
family, of the same father and mother, and
of kindred blood. Besides, Iris had retained
a dim recollection of him  more correct in
all respects than her early vision of his wife
as a lively, handsome young matron, who had
petted her and been very affectionate to Miss
Burrage. Mrs. Haigh was still animated
and motherly in hostess fashion, good-looking
in a full-blown style, effusive in caressing
terms and in hugs where she was intimate

enough and could take the liberty to bestow
them.

But unfortunately, Iris had learnt to know
that very little lay behind these signs save
what, after all, they might have been fairly
taken to indicate by more experienced persons
 a creditable, energetic effort to obtain
for herself and her family that independence
and comfort which Mr. Haigh alone could not
ensure to them, natural affection for her offspring,
and a considerable fund of careless
good-humour.

Mr. Haigh was the cipher that Iris had
always remembered him. He sat at the foot
of the table and did the principal carving.
He kept the gentlemen company when the
ladies had retired. He was safe for a partner
at whist, unless somebody else wished to
make up the party. He could serve as a
tolerable second when the boarders happened
to be musical and a second was in request.
He dabbled a little in art, so as to have the
entree to a few studios, and afford the benefit
of his opinion to any amateur artist in the
house. He had the same intangible connection
with the theatres and opera-houses,
so that he could always procure tickets, boxes

and stalls, and predict what a play would
turn out, when the mass of the public was
helpless and voiceless. Mr. Haigh had been
educated abroad, and possessed an additional
advantage, of which he was rather vain. He
was tolerably conversant with several European
languages. He could serve on a pinch
as an amateur courier by anticipation to inexperienced
projectors of continental tours.

To all these positive advantages, he added
the strong negative recommendation that he
was without expensive vices. He might be
said to earn his pocket-money, with the leisure
from all employment save that of obliging
and entertaining his boarders  a duty to
which he was rather partial.

In any other position, Mr. Haigh might
have been a purely ornamental member of
society ; but as the spouse of a lady who kept
an upper-class boarding-house, he was almost
the right man in the right place  while Iris
had never imagined she would get anything
more than a host's gentlemanlike notice from
Mr. Haigh.

But Mrs. Haigh had children, who were
also Miss Burrage's nephews and nieces.
They were all at school save one, Juliana,

or Ju-ju, the eldest daughter, a girl of nineteen,
to whom Iris turned eagerly. But,
alas ! Ju-ju was more like her well-bred
lymphatic father than her mother  far less
her aunt. Ju-ju's chief end in life seemed
to be to comply with all the obligations of the
most finished young ladyhood in the fashion
of the day, under such difficulties as limited
means and the necessity for the family's keeping
boarders implied. Ju-ju took her stand
on her father and mother's claims to gentility
as educated people, the children of a clergyman
of the Church of England on the one
hand, and a captain in the army on the other.
She ignored the items that Mrs. Haigh had
been a governess like her sister, and that
Mr. Haigh had failed in succession as a barristers
an operatic singer, an artist, and a playwright.
Ju-ju was inclined to make out that
her father and mother kept a boarding-house
for their private pleasure. She did nothing
save sit embroidering the artistic, elaborate
embroidery f the hour, and attend to her
toilet in the minutest details of the rosette
on her French shoe, and the extra button on
her profusely buttoned glove.

She was neither pretty nor plain, though
VOL. III. 42

she had a good figure, and felt the more persuaded
on that account that dress was of the
first consequence to her. She had her own
visiting set picked out from the sets of various
boarders who had taken her into company
with them. Mrs. Rugely and Mrs. Judge
Penfold usually chaperoned her instead of
her busy mother.

Iris Compton contemplated Ju-ju from a
puzzled mental and moral distance, with the
puzzle deepened by the fact that the girl was
Miss Burrage's niece. How could personal
enjoyment and the idlest trifles engross her
wholly? What was she thinking of when
she sat calmly applying herself for so many
hours to this costly fancy-work, while her
mother, behind backs, was really cumbered
with the care of her servants, the burden
of housekeeping for a large, disconnected,
troublesome family, the worry of account-books
which frequently refused to * square* %
And what became of all the splendid and
delicate embroidery, of which only a few
finished specimens appeared in the shape of
table-covers and cushions in the drawing-room
? Did Ju-ju simply work it to train
and gratify her hand and eye, and then wantonly

destroy it, or did she bestow it as presents
on all her absent friends ?

Iris found out the enigma at the same time
that she hit upon a little opening for her own
unprovided-for future, which was beginning to
weigh heavily upon her mind.

In vain had Iris asked Mrs. Haiofh's advice
about what she ought to do to earn a little
money. Mrs. Haigh was convinced that Iris's
illustrious relations would not permit such an
indignity. Miss Compton would only require
to hint to them that her coffers were becoming
empty, to have them filed again to overflowing.


Mrs. Haigh was not sure but that the law
could compel a suitable provision, for she had
read of peers' heirs who went to law to drag
a maintenance from their stingy fathers, and
she did not see why peeress's heiresses might
not do the same. If it were not so, an 
country would be enchanted
to support Iris without compulsion.

In vain Iris frankly approached the subject
with some of the other ladies  counting on
them as a sort of informal women's friendly
society. She was always stopped by their
smiling and pooh-cooling her. They would

422

not have their peer's grand-daughter pulled
down from her pedestal, or else they regarded
her prospects with regard to working for her
bread as so hopeless, that they preferred not
to discuss them with her. In fact they told
her it was lowering herself by hinting at such
an alternative, almost as much as if she were
to propose to borrow money from them.

At the same time Iris found to her dismay
that life in a Fitzroy Square boarding-house,
apart from the board, was a great deal dearer
than life at Lambford. Everybody overdressed,
punctiliously, with studied variety,
for dinner. In the light of Mrs. Judge Pen-fold's
brocade and diamonds the one day and
velvet and pearls the next ; Mrs. Hugely 's
diaphanous black and jet, or gold ; and Ju-ju
Haigh's earnestly thought out, subtle harmonies
in strange, wonderful stuffs and tints
from art-shops, her beads from Venice, her
bangles from India, her amber and filigree-work
from Damascus  all bought in London
town, for Ju-ju had been no traveller  Iris
was more than outshone. In such a white
India muslin, with turquoise ornaments, as had
dazzled Sir William Thwaite, or in such a blue
silk, festooned with hops, as would have been

voted decidedly ' selfish ' by the Hollises at
Thornbrake, and pronounced perfectly exquisite
by the Actons at the Rectory, she
knew she looked shabbily, stately monotonous
in costume. She was like the poorest of the
poor lady-boarders in their black silks or
black grenadines, with a couple of bodies
to wear alternately, and further changes
wrought in the owners' imaginations by one
set of ribands and flowers in the room of
another. Mrs. Haigh, while she overlooked
the delinquencies of the gentle paupers, would
glance reproachfully at Iris. The Honourable
Miss Compton might do many things as she
chose, but she ought to comply with the rules
of the house in dressing according to her
rank.

The days had long gone by since ladies felt
well equipped with a couple of evening dresses,
by which they were as well known as by their
features and complexions  the last were tolerably
permanent in the early ages. The only
question then was, as in the case of Petrarch's
Laura, whether the fair one should appear in
her green with violets, or in her purple with
grey feathers.

Iris had the impression that she was playing

at being a grand demoiselle in an effeminate,
luxurious, extravagant court. She tried
to resist, but she was a young woman without
a home, and had to yield something to what
Mrs. Haigh called * the rules of the house
She was forced, like the poor ladies, since she
had not the endless resources of Ju-ju, to
waste a great deal of time in contriving small
transparent devices for her dress to pass muster
among the elaborate shifting toilets of the
company.

It was on an errand to procure some not
too costly, gauzy transformation, that Iris,
who had from the first claimed the liberty of
walking out by herself without becoming a
mutual drag and fetter either on Mrs. Haigh
or Ju-ju, visited such a monster shop of all
wares as is a remarkable feature of the London
of to-day. It was a little of an enterprise
even for so fearless a girl as Iris to
enter one of the many doors, fall into a stream
of purchasers, pass down the streets of
counters, and be bewildered by the different
departments of the business, in story after
story of the blocks of buildings. She could
imagine herself in a huge prosaic set of
bazaars, where the babel of tongues all purported

to be one language, and the transmission
of her insignificant self from point
to point, by detachments of the army of menin
clergymen and butler-like black coats and
white-chokers, or by phalanxes of girls in
endless black gowns and frizzled hair  professed
to be means to an end.

Iris felt so small and so swallowed up,
that she uttered a little cry of pleasure when
she discovered Ju-ju Haigh at a counter on
which the exquisite materials for some of her
embroidery were displayed.

Ju-ju could not be said to return the compliment
by sharing in the gratification. She
reddened, and had a constrained air, while
the girls exchanged half-a-dozen words. Iris
would have passed on, but the crush of
buyers and sellers was great here, and she
could not advance many steps before one of
the elder shop women, or ladies of the establishment
as they prefer to be called, came
to Miss Haigh and delivered a courteous
verbal message :

 If the piece be done by next week, madam'
(old-fashioned modes of address have
acquired fresh life and new associations in
connection with London shops), ' Mrs. Cree

says it will be in time enough for the Countess.'


Ju-ju met Iris's surprised eyes, and immediately
turned aside, crimsoning from brow
to throat, through the pearl-powder which
she and young Mrs. Rugely and elderly Mrs.
Judge Penfold and Mrs. Haigh, and poor
Miss Swan, the poorest of the poor ladies, 
did not hesitate to use, though they stopped
short as yet of rouge.

But Ju-ju showed no further inclination to
be left alone ; on the contrary, she hurried
over her business, offered to join Iris and
help her, with Ju-ju's valuable aid, in a purchase,
and seemed even anxiously desirous of
bearing Miss Compton company in her walk
home.

The motive was soon explained. Whenever
the girls got into the quieter streets, Ju-ju
spoke with almost painful earnestness :

You have found me out, Miss Compton,
without being able to help it. I embroider
at home, for Mr. Blackburn's art department.
I dare say you have observed that I work
rather closely, though embroidery is a pleasure
to me also. Other people in the house have
noticed it, though of course nobody asks any

questions. My mother can only afford me a
small allowance. I could not dress and go
out like other girls, if I had not an additional
income. I assure you, many girls
design or embroider on private commissions,
which are the best, as they are for friends ;
or for the art-schools, where the girls have
been taught ; or for art departments in some
of the great shops, and nobody outside is any
wiser. The ras"e for art work is such a boon
to people who would not think of working in
any other fashion. Art work can be done by
any lady, without loss of caste, and if you will
believe me, many ladies do it for pay who are
in no want of money, as I am sorry to say I
am. Some of these are connected with the
nobility, as you are, and, for the most part,
they do not care though it is known they
embroider for money. They laugh and boast
of it, and are as proud of their earnings as if
they were sums gained at Monte Carlo, or
the payment of wagers, or the prices of books
or pictures which the girls had written or
painted. I have heard of girls who have had
the sovereigns that have been worked for
pierced so that the workers might dangle and
display them at their watch-chains, like so

many charms. But it is a different thing
when working is a necessity. I don't think
I should work if T had a good allowance ora
rich father,' admitted Ju-ju ;  and I believe,
in my case, it is certainly much better to say
nothing about it. So, Miss Compton, I shall
be very much obliged to you if you will not
mention what has come to your knowledge
to-day  not even to my mother, though I
need not say she is aware of my arrangement
and has given her full consent to it.'

This was a revelation to Iris, but she did
not stop to enquire if the game were worth
the candle. She did not weigh against each
other the false pride of girls like Ju-j u Haigh,
who eked out their means and supplied themselves
with foolish extravagances by labouring
in strict secrecy for tinsel  not bread ; and
the childish vanity of the wealthy aristocratic
girls who vaunted their uncalled-for achievements
in the shape of working, at will, for a
few sovereigns, twice the number of which
the workwomen wasted every day they lived.
It just crossed Iris's mind that there was a
performance resembling this on the part of
the ladies of the French noblesse before the
great revolution, when dainty fingers ostentatiously

unravelled gold thread in lace
which had decorated coats of husbands or
brothers or sons, and sold it as bullion.
But she drew no inference from the comparison.


Iris did not even speculate how it comes
that to work at art designs and marvels of
embroidery, which after all, beautiful as they
may be, are superfluities, can be more honourable
than to work at the homeliest useful
work, which is of still greater necessity to
the welfare of the world than the coin with
which the primitive toil is remunerated ; she
only thought that she too could do this art-work,
while she might not be fit for any
other.

She had delighted as a simple matter of
taste, when she was a girl at ease, in the
revival of art embroidery. She had practised
it with enthusiasm, and had attained some
local eminence by her performances. She
had watched Ju-ju's achievements with intelligent
admiration, and been able to offer
her available suggestions and help sometimes.
Now Tris ventured to propose, a little breathlessly
in her excitement :

Could I do anything for Blackburn's \

Would they care to employ me ? I should
be glad  thankful, if they would try me. I
need not say I would do my best to give
them satisfaction.'

Ju-ju received the proposal more graciously
and encouragingly than her mother and the
other ladies had met Iris's candid statements
of the obligation on her to find work and
wages. Jh-ju, confident in her own skill and
experience, feared no competition in her
special province, while, on the other hand,
she was inclined to clutch at another example
and to prove that lady-like girls, even girls
connected with the nobility, freely adopted
her calling. The work had something refined
and picturesque in it, after all, recalling old
queens and chatelains with their noble
maidens and bower-women, the Bayeux
tapestry and other less ambitious but still
remarkable performances.

Ju-ju readily undertook to communicate
with Blackburn, and exhibit some specimens
of Iris's capability as a nineteenth-century
Arachne. Mrs. Haigh shook her head, and
was troubled by the anomaly ; but Ju-ju had
sufficient influence over her mother to prevent
her doing more.

Blackburn was a genius in his line ; he
kept all the strings to his bow and all the
arteries of his vast organization under his
personal inspection and control. He had
found the secret of success, in the path which
he had struck out, to lie in universal applicability
and novelty. He had boasted that he
could furnish, on due notice, whatever the
heart of man or woman could desire  whether
the customer were a prince or a princess, a
dock-labourer or a charwoman ; and he had
reclaimed his pledge by providing an elephant
within four-and-twenty hours of its being
asked for, on one extraordinary occasion.
He was proud of his last development in an
aristocratic art region. He magnanimously
enjoyed solacing the idleness of rich, the
sorrows of poor gentility, that would never
recognise him and his, in spite of his celebrity
and wealth, as the equals and privileged
associates of its members. He
relished highly, as Douche did, counting
in his pay sprigs of the nobility, who
were also among the chief purchasers of
his rarest and costliest adaptations from
Worth.

Iris did not know how much she owed

again to her grandfather and grandmother,
when, to her great relief and something like
happy bewilderment, she found herself at
once approved of and appointed on Blackburn's
staff. She was even entrusted with
very valuable materials, including an idea
with a suitable moral, by a well-known artist,
the cartoon to be destroyed as soon as a
single copy was worked, of a screen in three
panels.

One panel displayed Arachne in her earlier
humanity, carried away by conceit in her
weaving ; the second gave the cowering
foolish weaver-woman brought face to face
with the great goddess Minerva, whom she
had dared to challenge to a trial of skill ; and
the third represented Minerva looking down
in supreme contempt on the humble spider
and her web, all that remained of the presumptuous
Arachne and the product of her
loom.

Long afterwards Iris was wont to view
that trophy of bold, true, delicate, if formal,
lines, traced in softest, richest silks, with
many mingled feelings. In the meantime
it was a congenial occupation, as well as a
bracing effort at independence, for Iris to

work faithfully and lovingly at the great
artist's fancy.

Iris needed this help for her heart and
mind, her faith and patience, while the
summer was yet young, since every day the
weather was growing warmer and the season
drawing nearer to its climax. The garden in
Fitzroy Square, which had been a pleasant
oasis in the dreary desert of stone and lime
when Iris came, became prematurely sere,
yellow, and brown in its lack of country
freshness, country freedom, country whole -
sameness, of gradual, bountiful growth and
decay. It seemed to miss half the stages of
vegetable existence, whether of autumn
bravery of colouring, or of a winter robe of
spotless swan's-down, instead of a rapidly
melting, smutty, grey travesty of snow.

The society of the boarding-house had lost
its strangeness to Iris, but it had also become
more and more irksome with a constant reminder
that she was out of her element
among people whom she neither judged, nor
condemned, nor despised, but not one of
whom bore much more than a human,
national, tolerably civilized affinity to her, in
her nature, beliefs, and habits. She had a

notion that she might have fared better in
some of the other houses in the neighbourhood
; especially she hankered after those
that appeared occupied by struggling artists.
But the Hails held themselves aloof from
Bohemianism in every shape, reckoning on
drawing their clients from more solid and
substantial, if less original and enlivening
quarters ; even Ju-ju only cared for artistic
circles, inasmuch as they supplied her with
canons of taste.

Many of the residents in the house were
going away with Ju-ju Haigh to pay visits to
the sea-side, to Normandy, or the Engadine.
Iris's choice of society, such as it was, began
to narrow just as she had a craving for it to
widen. She would be left almost alone in the
white dusty streets by the time she thirsted
intensely for a quiet, sandy-coloured country
road running along a reddish, purplish-green
stretch of common or down, the shade of
trees, the cool ripple of water, the yellow
corn-fields ripening to harvest.

The figure of an old woman, loveless and
unloved in her solitary age, sitting at home
in her cheerless great house, or driving outby
herself in her close carriage on her monotonous

round, had reproached Iris, from the
first, many a time. The reproach was more
than half morbid, for Lady Fermor had never
shown that she cared for her grand-daughter's
company, and she had driven Iris from herby
persecution and panic, which might have
worn the girl into her grave, or carried her to
a madhouse.

VOL. III. 43

AGE PLEADS.

Iris had been out for a little more air and a
saunter in the greater space of Regent's
Park, when, just as she re-entered the house,
she met Mrs. Haigh in such a state of consternation
that the girl's roused imagination
could settle on no smaller calamities than the
kitchen chimney on fire, to the destruction of
the eight o'clock dinner, or to the first clerk
in the great banking-house having announced
his intention to set up an establishment of his
own. But Mrs. Haigh speedily undeceived
her.

Oh, my dear Miss Compton, she is here !
Lady Fermor is here, and I dared not attempt
to deceive her about your being with us ;
indeed, she did not ask ; she simply said,
* Take me to Miss Compton," and she walked
straight into the drawing-room, dismissing

me with a nod, and staring about her without
troubling to return the bows of the assembled
ladies, to whom I gave her a general introduction.
They have all left the room, and
she is sitting there alone, for Haigh has declined
to have anything to do with her. I
am afraid you must go to her and find out
what she wants. If it is anything reasonable,
if she wishes to board here along with
you, I will do my best, though I do not know
if Mrs. Judofe Penfold and the rest will consent
to be ignored, even by a viscountess 
your grandfather was a viscount, wasn't he,
dear Miss Compton ? not an earl, as I am
always inclined to make him  when they
are all private ladies. If she thinks your
board too high, though the times are terribly
expensive '

I do not think that will be the reason of
her coming, Mrs. Haigh. I shall go to herat
once.'

The thought of her grandmother away
from Lambford, from which she had not
stirred for a dozen years, had a great effect on
Iris. She felt it when she went into the
drawing-room, where a moderate amount of
second-hand, frequently incongruous furnish



nimo\sUBRAH.

ture was made to stand for a great deal, and
for the accomplishment of entire harmony, to
which the separate possessions of the different
ladies, with the traces of their various avocations,
lent an additional unhomelike cetero


Whatever the person most concerned may
have felt, it was a shock to her descendant
when she saw the aged woman rooted up
from all her old surroundings. Iris had been
accustomed to think of her grandmother as
about as stationary and constant in her attributes
and actions as the fixed stars, as accustomed
to be law to her house, the author and
ruler of its whole economy, which for that
matter proceeded from her will and existed
for her pleasure.

Therefore the contrast was great of finding
Lady Fermor seated uncomfortably in a chair
which was the opposite of her own at Lamb-ford,
with Mrs. Rugely's easel at one side,
and Mrs. Calcott's basket heaped with the
ladies' socks and pinafores, which she was
always manufacturing for charitable bazaars,
on the other, and Mrs. Judge Penfold's dog
barking, and Ju-ju's kitten putting up its
tail, as if to assail the intruder.

Iris's heart smote her, and she advanced
quickly to her persecutes, crying out :

Oh, grand mamma ! I am sorry I have
given you so much trouble, if you have come
up to town on my account.'

You may be sorry,' said Lady Fermor
emphatically, extending two fingers to her
grand-daughter. * I have come a long
journey on your account. I am here to
fetch you away ; so you had better get ready
as soon as possible, and not keep me waiting
longer than you can help. The carriage is at
the door.'

Iris was taken aback. This was not like
the scoffing leave to go which had been
granted to her at their last meeting. To
return to Lambford, though she had not been
very happy in Fitzroy Square, was never
what Iris had intended ; all the old objections
to her residence with her grandmother,
which had grown unbearable, might still
remain in full force. The loathed apparition
of Major Pollock, of which she had got rid
lately, seemed to rise again before her and
make her flesh creep. For anything Iris
knew he might have come up with her
grandmother to London  he might be in the

carriage outside, ready to spring upon her,
in a figure.

She could not resign herself again to the
old tyranny, the old taunts and indignities
which had threatened to thrust her on the
most miserable fate that could befall a
woman ; not for her native air and the place
and the people she had known and loved so
long ; not for Lucy Acton, who had expressed
herself by letter as dubious of the step Iris
had taken, even while condoling with her
most sincerely on the causes which had
led to it, could Iris make so bootless a
sacrifice. But the assurance of the shrivelled
wreck of a woman before her staggered
Iris, and caused her to hesitate what to say
or do.

Lady Fermor delivered herself of a gesture
of impatience, and called out harshly :

Have I not stooped enough, girl 1
Would you have me humble myself in the
dirt to tell you I'll never mention poor old
Pollock's name to you again 1 If you had
not been a prim, scared idiot, you would
have known it was not in earnest. I have
got one of my other grand-daughters,
Marianne Dugdale, to be a companion for

you. I have taken a house in Kensington,
that you may spend a few weeks in town
before all the world is gone, in a manner
more befitting your antecedents. Afterwards
I am thinking of a little trip to Buxton, or
Scarborough, or Scotland  I am not too stiff
to accomplish it  and let you two girls have
the benefit of it. I dare say you will turn up
your noses because Buxton is not Spa or
Homburg, and Scarborough Compiegne, or
any other French place frequented by the
ex-Empress, and Scotland Norway. But I
can tell you, when I was young, a girl would
have counted such an excursion an opening
for making her fortune and a wonderful
stroke of brood luck.'

It is kind of you to put yourself about
faltered Iris, not at all sure how her words
would be taken. ' We are much obliged to
you. If I could only flatter myself you
wanted me  you really wanted me  grand-mamma,'
said Iris, with a more uncontrollable
break in her voice.

Oh, as to that,' said Lady Fermor, carelessly
shaking out her sable-lined cloak, and
giving a twitch to the strings of a new and
striking lilac satin bonnet, * I got on very

well by myself. You need not flatter yourself
that you are of so much consequence. It
was Thwaite, who came over and dug into
me to go and see after you with a keen
glance at Iris.

It was very good of Sir William to think
of me,' said Iris simply.

 Oh yes, we're all kind and good now,
when you've had your swing, and we're ready
to look over and make the best of a girl's
incredible folly. Thwaite brought Marianne
Dugdale and me to town, but you need not
thank him for it. I imagine he has taken a
fancy to Marianne, and though she's a goose,
like the rest of her kind, she won't be so
goosey, perverse, and infatuated as to hold
out against lawful authority, and a thousand
advantages far beyond what she could hope
for. By-the-bye, I hope Marianne's having
stepped into your shoes, both with regard to
Lambford and Whitehills, will not interfere
with your throwing down your arms, and
submitting to your natural superior,' wound
up Lady Fermor, fixing Iris with a wily,
glittering eye.

No, no,' said Iris hastily, falling into the
trap forthwith, lifting up her head in voluntarily,

unconscious of a bright spot rising
on each cheek. * Why should it ? But there
are some other things to be thought of.'

Out with them. Am I to oho down on
my knees to beg your pardon V with a feeble
movement to rise from her chair. ' I have
long thought the world was upside down,
and this will only be the reversal of our
natural position. Come, let me get over it
as soon as possible. I should not mind it, if
my old knees were not so rheumatic*

Grandmamma, I beseech you don't implored
Iris, in terror lest Lady Fermor
should carry out her horrible mockery.
How could you think or say such a thing ?
I only wished to tell you thatI have paid
my board, but Mrs. Haigh has made arrangements
for me remaining much honore. I
cannot help disappointing her perhaps, but I
ought not to let her suffer otherwise.'

Humph ! very impertinent in her to have
anything to say to you at all, and still more
impertinent to go on forming plans without
consulting your friends, but we must take
that with the rest. I'll settle with the
lodging or boarding-house keeper, or whatever
she is. Any more stipulations V

 I have taken in work  art-work  from
Blackburn's, and I have expensive materials
to account for, as well as the piece I undertook
to embroider.'

 Good gracious, Iris ! were you mad ?
How could you disgrace yourself and me in
such a manner V cried Lady Fermor,
stumbling to her feet. * You might have
gone on the boards with less scandal, if ever
such an act of low-life absurdity come to
light. We must drive instantly to the shop,
and buy up all you had to do with  only
buying up will stop the man's mouth ; and
though it were half the shop, the sacrifice
must be made. When I engage in a thing,
I go through with it. But your vagary is
likely to cost me a pretty penny, Miss
Compton, in addition to aching bones. You
had better think twice ; or rather, I hope
you will be off my hands before you engage
in another. After the good education you
had  even though that woman Burrage was
a fanatic  to descend to the gutter by taking
in work from a public shop !'

It was plain that in Lady Former's old-fashioned
estimation, art needlework was nota
whit better than white seam ; and she considered

that Iris Compton had let herself
sink, in the course of six or eight weeks, to
the level of a shirt-maker or slop-worker.

It was like a dream to Iris to find herself
snatched away from Fitzroy Square. She
left Mrs. Haigh in a manner consoled by the
spectacle of the coroneted carriage at the
door, and the undying recollection that Lady
Fermor had called in person for her granddaughter,
though her ladyship had not behaved
quite so well on the occasion as might
have been hoped for from a viscountess.
Iris had promised to come and see them all
again. On the other hand, it was certain
that Mrs. Haigh's ladies, though they were
ready to give honour where honour was due,
would not have suppressed themselves to the
extent of being trodden under foot by a titled
sinner.

It was not so much as if the present  it
was rather as if the recent past were a dream,
when Iris knew herself sitting in her old
place, listening to the old high-handed talk
and vituperation that were yet not without a
harsh kindliness, for which they were not at
all indebted to Lady Fermor. They owed
it solely to old home-like associations. But,

as Iris told herself, what could she have done
after the chief grievance was removed, and
her grandmother had bound herself to keep
the peace, than return to her duty, and wear
again the yoke of her youth ?

The house which Ladv Fermor had taken
off its former tenant's hands, for the last few
weeks of the season, was at Kensington
Gore. It was beyond the precincts of Belgravia,
and beyond the Knightsbridge art
studios and the barracks, which, following
the example of the ubiquitous mews, invade
select territories. Its windows did not give
a false idea, as they looked full on the refreshment
and refuge of the grand old leafy
gardens. The glittering pinnacles of the
Queen and country's memorial to a good
prince, with his other monument, the huge
ugly dome of the Albert Hall, promising unlimited
music, and the pile upon pile of the
second national museum, offering numberless
antiquities, pictures, the Raphael cartoons,
were all close at home. So was the Row,
with its mid-day horses and riders, and so
was Hyde Park, with its afternoon stream
of carriages, and not very far off was the
Broad Walk, that noblest avenue in which

old court beauties, fair French pedigrees, the
world of fashion and letters, once came to see
and be seen, to sun themselves, and shine as
lesser luminaries, reflecting welcome rays on
the obscure world crowding to gape and stare
at the town lions. There was the plainest of
brick palaces winking and twinkling with its
many white-faced windows iu the sun, or
looking grim and uncompromisingly prosaic
in the shade ; but never to be forgotten in
its lack of all architectural stateliness and
beauty, because there the great ones of other
generations, kings and queens, statesmen and
generals  not lost among starched and soulless
court officials  had been born, or died, or
had spent, in the glare which surrounds a
throne, some of their brief fateful days.

Iris had never before lived in such a
charmed region, where the hours might well
seem too short for the attractions which
claimed them ; but she hardly noticed it at
first, she was so full of excitement and
anxiety about her cousin, Marianne Dugdale.
The relationship that connected them, to
which Iris, in the absence of nearer kindred,
might have felt fain to cling, had been marred
by old sins and sorrows. These transgressions,

poor faithless souls feel tempted to
fear, are more frequently visited on innocent,
sensitive victims than on guilty, callous
culprits. But when it comes to that, the
vicarious suffering may be the most powerful
means of saving the sufferers from the transmission
of the moral taint.

Lady Fermor had been plagued by few
scruples in calling this other grandchild to
her side, but Iris retained a pained recollection
of what her grandmother had said with
regard to the light in which the Dugdales
and the Powellss must regard her, Iris. They
might owe some charity to their grandmother,
but they owned none to her. She
was only a rival claimant for Lady Fermor's
bounty, the grand-daughter of the man who
had foully wronged their grandfather. It
was a case of family guilt and alienation
which could hardly be repaired even between
the harmless representatives of succeeding
generations.

MARIANNE Dundalk.

Any faint hopes of amnesty which Iris
might have entertained were extinguished ;
her face fell and was dyed with a crimson
blush of shame and confusion, at the reception
she met with from Marianne Dugdale.
The young lady had been riding with some
country companions who had turned up in
town, opportunely for her. She had come
back almost simultaneously with her grandmother
and Iris, so that Miss Dugdale was
still standing in the hall, holding up her
habit with one hand, and releasing herself
from the burden of her hat in the hot weather
with the other, when Lady Fermor called out,
Are you there, Marianne ? Come here ; I
have brought you Iris Compton. Let me
see if you two cousins have any look of each
other.'

Marianne turned round and showed a short
but well-balanced, well-carried figure ; a face
from which all the dusky, not particularly
tidy hair was swept back from the good forehead
; a pair of the darkest brown, keenly
enquiring, nay, haughtily challenging eyes ;
an ivory complexion, as if pale with passion ;
a straight nose ; a mouth so shaped to pout
that one could hardly conceive it pacifically
straight, or drooping lugubriously at the
corners.

Marianne Dugdale was one of the pale
roses so much in fashion, well set in thorns,
if ever rose were so set. She made a queer
half-mocking little bow, touched the tips of
Iris's fingers with her own, and saying decidedly,
 There is not a shade of likeness
between us, granny,' turned away and ran
lightly up a flight of stairs.

How she detests me, at first sight !
Though I cannot help it, I need not wonder
at it.'

Iris took the manner of the reception to
herself, in distress and humiliation, and
asked in nervous apprehension with what
show of friendship and enjoyment the two
could live together, and go out together.

certainly for the next month or two, possibly
for years ? She would have repented quitting
Fitzroy Square and returning with Lady
Fermor, if her grandmother had not come
for her, made terms with her, and, as it
appeared, constituted it Iris's duty to submit.

For half a week Iris remained disabused
of the impression that she was an object of
half-righteous, half vindictive abhorrence to
Marianne Duo-dale, who was watching everything
Iris did and said with a hawk-like
alertness which Iris felt far transcended her
own mortified well-nigh timid inspection of
her cousin.

The first thing which shook Iris's belief in
her kinswoman's role, as a small black and
white Nemesis, was Iris's observation of the
inherent youthfulness which clung to Marianne
Dugdale. Iris knew they were much
of the same aoe, but she had been feelings a
woman for years now ; she was certain she
presented no such juvenile traits as were
constantly peeping out in Marianne Dugdale,
and largely qualifying a nature that even in
early womanhood was sharp, shrewd, and
full of self-reliance. There was the oddest
mixture, the result of early forcing and con-vol.

III. 44

extemporaneous neglect, of strength and weakness,
boldness and shyness, confidence and
distrust, tenacity and collapse, in the little
square-shouldered person who was to divide
with Iris the claims of the young ladies of
the family and the filial duties of grandchildren
to Lady Fermor, both in the house
at Kensington Gate and elsewhere. The
double temperament and training betrayed
itself even in Marianne Dugdale's physique.
Her little chubby hands were dimpled like a
child's, and while they were tolerably useless
in some things  notably in woman's work 
in others they displayed the dexterity of an
intelligent mechanic. The owner of the
hands had been very irregularly educated,
but she had a scientific, particularly a mechanical
bias. She preferred mathematics and
chemistry to history and literature, while she
had a side for fiction and poetry ; with a
greater resemblance to men than to women
in this respect, she relished an opportunity of
working with wire and wood ; she bored and
whittled like a boy ; put all the bells right in
the house at Kensington Gore without the
assistance of a workman, to the amazement,
amounting to consternation, of the strictly

conventional London men-servants and maidservants
; rectified the unevenness of various
articles of furniture, and set straight every
picture that was hung wrong by a hairbreadth.


Her voice, in the style of her hands, was
furnished with a singular variety of tones,
some of them strident and self-assertive
enough, others  mostly addressed to children
and animals  were wonderfully winning and
sweet, full of childlike vibrations, and an
irresistibly coaxing ring.

But Marianne Dugdale's attitude to her
grandmother, Lady Fermor, was the most
puzzling and characteristic of any. In one
sense the girl openly defied the formidable
old woman, and took the control of herself,
Marianne Dugdale, into her own hands, where
she had been early accustomed to keep it.
She proposed to do in London and at Lamb-ford
exactly what she had done in her
father's country-house, in the depths of
Devonshire  and that was very much what
she liked.

In another sense, the strong, ardent rejoicing
youth of the girl had an underlying
fund of generosity and pity for the old

442

woman's position, fighting against infirmity
on the brink of the grave. After a conspicuously
self-willed action or flippant speech,
Marianne Dugdale would suddenly turn, as
if moved by a different spring, and speak the
gentlest words she had uttered that day,
refrain from resenting a jeering rejoinder,
refuse to be held back by any chilling repulse,
decline to quail or to recoil passionately
from offering to the stout-hearted,
thankless rebel against her own needs and
other people's devices, soft, cherishing aid.

Iris looked from one to another in marvel
to see how Lady Fermor would stand it  
the open, scarcely seemly contradiction  the
sudden sweet, tender amends ; and if anybody
had presumed to observe and applaud
the relenting, the likelihood was that Marianne
Dngdale would have gone off at a
tangent  harder, sharper, more dogged than
ever.

Lady Former's looks and words offered a
new field of conjecture to Iris. There was
a strange, suspicious forbearance and obliviousness
about Lady Former's dealing with
Marianne Dugdale's behaviour, which Iris
suspected was made up of new sensations 

considerable amusement, and an abiding conviction
that in spite of all the restiveness
and waywardness, she, Lady Fermor, was
mistress of Marianne Dugdale, and could
easily crush her opposition whether in great
matters or small. There was no coherence
as yet in the warring qualities in the girl's
disposition, no principle of steadfastness to
enable her to pull herself together and resist
any impulse, whether for good or evil, advisedly
and to the end, no outward abiding
support. She was physically fearless to
daring, but it remained on the cards that she
might prove morally weak as water.

Iris was not thinking of herself, but she
was as a still, deep stream, obeying a great
law, which, however ruffled, could not be
diverted from its course and was full of
reserved power.

Marianne Dugfdale was like a brawling
brook, spending itself in foam and noise,
rushing hither and thither, in wandering
channels, either to lose name and identity,
or to discover itself suddenly turned aside,
and notwithstanding: its ravines, carried where
it would not, to turn some wheel, form some
reservoir, or serve some foreign purpose for

which it had not the slightest inclination.
Iris arrived at the sound conclusion that,
however indifferent or even averse to her a
girl like this might be, it was hardly probable
that she would figure in the light of an
avenger of hereditary injuries. Marianne
was not made of the stuff that constitutes an
old supporter of the Vendetta, or a modern
Nihilist.

It was on the occasion of Lady Former's
persistently twitting Iris, according to an old
bad habit, which their recent compact had
not interfered with, that Marianne Dugdale
abruptly declared herself on the side of her
cousin, called her ' Iris ' in those accents
which, when they were friendly at all, sounded
as if they came fresh from a warm, true
heart, and might wile a bird from a tree.
She walked over to Iris's side where she satin
one of the windows looking out across the
crowded traffic of the road to the grand
alleys of the gardens. Marianne knelt, or
as she would have called it, in her scorn of
sentimentality, * plumped ' down before her
cousin, leant her crossed arms against the
frame in which Iris was working at the
Arachne, amidst altered surroundings, and

began to chat over the events of the day in
which the girls were mutually interested.

The action was the nearest approach to a
caress in which the least caressing of girls
was likely to indulge. It was also a pretty,
unaffected movement, at once confidential
and implying more or less voluntary allegiance.


Iris welcomed it gladly, and with as much
cordiality at it was wise to display to a wild
bird that mioht take alarm and start off on

CD

the smallest provocation.

Lady Fermor had never known the love of
woman to woman, and had been as incredulous
of it as many men are, or pretend to be.
She had never looked upon her own sex
otherwise than with a mixture of dislike, suspicion,
and contempt, as natural enemies and
rivals, or as poor inferiors. She now regarded
the little group before her with a snort of
exasperated scepticism. * Well done, young
ladies !' she said sardonically, as she rose
from her chair with an effort ; ' the pose is
very pretty, but it is wasted upon me. You
ought to keep it for les jeunes ingenuous like
yourselves. Oh dear, no !  don't, I beg of
you, disturb yourselves on my account,' as

she stumbled and recovered herself on the
way to the door, and both of her granddaughters
were starting up to her assistance.
I hear Soames corning to tell me I ought
to be Ij'ing down ; but if she proposes to hug
me, or even to kiss mv hand, I'll dismiss heron
the spot. I make it a principle not to
encourage humbug.'

'* Don't be too affectionate, Charlotte, or
I'll kick yer'" Marianne quoted audibly from
Oliver Twist.' Then, as the door closed,
she appealed to her cousin. * Now, Iris,
you've known granny a great deal longer
than I have ; but I have seen enough of her
to dare you to contradict me, if you are in
the habit of speaking the truth, when I say
she is an abominable old woman

Iris looked down into the clear, searching,
imperious eyes fixed on hers, then before she
answered looked away into the green gardens.
Happy little children played therefrom
morning till night. Invalids in Bath-chairs
were pulled along that the sick folk
might look with their dim, faded eyes at the
sunny sky and the flowery earth, and know
summer had come again, and dream for a
brief moment that health and strength were

not fled for eyer, but might return once more.
Men of business, pursued by cares and worries,
undertaken for women and children, trudged
home from their offices. Those mature pedestrians,
who ought to have known better,
fondly persuaded themselves that they had
found a natural refuge by choosing, in preference
to the rattle of vehicles and the constant
interruptions of the streets, this comparatively
quiet ground, with the grass beneath
their feet and the trees above their heads ;
but the deluded men only used their leisure
to think the more of the business they had
meant to leave behind. Lovers sat on the
benches, and looked into each other's eyes,
and exchanged a word now and then, as if
they had sat there since the gardens were
opened, since Adam and Eve walked in the
garden of Eden, and could be content to sit
there for ever. Iris left her needle sticking
in her work, clasped her hands, and spoke
piteously :

She belongs to other times and other
manners, so that we cannot judge her and
her temptations. She has lost all she
loved and honoured, and she does not care
any more for love and honour.' Her voice

fell as. if this were, what indeed it was, the
crown of human wretchedness.

A passing shade of awe crossed Marianne
Dugdale's dauntless face, but she did not refrain
from proclaiming triumphantly :  Then,
Iris Compton, we can be friends. I agree
with what you say. She is a miserable, old,
old granny, and sometimes I would give
anything to help her. But I was trying you
to see if you were goody-goody, as she said.
She told me it was because of your goody-goodness
you ran away ; and if you had
begun to preach to me about reverence, and
the duty and privilege of respecting and
loving that dreadful old woman, though she
is a poor old soul all the same, to whom we
have the misfortune to be related  I should
have given you up at once, since I won't
be preached to. Luckily, granny, however
horrible otherwise, never tries on that : and,
like her, I make a principle of never encouraging
humbugs.'

Everybody is not a humbug who does
not go about proclaiming all the truth, who
even keeps back as much of it as is possible
sometimes. You would not expose a wound to
shock your fellow-creatures,' remonstrated Iris.

 No  yes. You are talking of a different
thing. I shall always speak the truth  I
have never told lies. I should not know how
to hold my tongue. And you  you were not
altogether silent in your conduct; I mean
when you ran away. Ah ! I have you there,
Irish

Iris winced before this very plain speaking.
' I thought I was forced to leave
grandmamma/ she said, ' but I did not go
clandestinely. I dare say she told you that
also ; for whatever she has done, she is a
truthful woman, Marianne. It was not a
pleasant experience. I do not like to speak
or think of it, and I do not care to speak ill
of Lady Fermor when I am eating her bread.
Remember, she has brought me up. I have
lived with her all my life, as you have not
done.'

The more shame to her, then, to speak
to you as she did a little while ago  as she is
constantly doing,' asserted Marianne Dug-dale
roundly, ' and the more fool you to let
her. I shan't run away, see if I shall. I
shall stay as long as she will keep me, or
till I make the place too hot to hold me,
since I have come to granny, though I hated

the thought, for the good of the other girls,
and because papa scolded and mamma cried
about our poverty. But she shan't take me
off, or put me down, or domineer over me,
you notice, Iris. I will manage better ; and
neither shall she ride rough-shod over you
any more, if I am here,' declared Marianne,
in the tone of a gallant little cavalier who
means to fight in defence of his lady.  You
are really a great deal too good for her, instead
of thinking only of yourself, and preaching
to every other person in the goody-goody
fashion I feared, and have been looking out
for, every day since you came. But it is not
true ; you are quite an honest, reasonable,
jolly girl. I shall do what seems best to me,
and you will do what you think proper, and
if granny will only consent to behave herself
tolerably for an old woman, we'll do all
we can for her.'

I am much obliged to you, my dear
cousin,' Iris was forced to laugh,  but you
must not mind me. Lady Fermor and I
understand each other, and I am not often
Aexed by what she says. People at her age
are privileged. It is only her way of joking.
You must mind yourself You may not find

it so easy for you as you suppose, though I
need not say I will do all I can to help
you.'

I do not see how there can be any difficulty
said Marianne, a little offended in
her extravagant independence and self-confidence,
as she rose to her feet and prepared
to stroll away.  I have always got my own
way, at least almost always. Papa is constantly
up to his ears in business, and a very
bad business it is with the agricultural interest
gone to the dogs. Mamma is too lazy,
and reads too many novels to take the
trouble to call me to order. She never had
a mother of her own  at least the one she
had was as good as none ; and her father
was soured with his misfortunes, so that her
spirit was broken when she was still a girl ;
but I am not going to lose my spirit. The
other girls, Cathie and Cattle, are younger
than I am, and I rule them instead of their
ruling me. There are the boys, to be sure,'
said Marianne, with a momentary pause.

I thought you had no brothers.'

Oh no ! not brothers, but as good 
rather better  five cousins ; Tom and Ned,
and Dick and Harry, and Charlie. Tom

and Ned are going to India, and Dick and
Harry are at Cambridge. Dick is to be a
barrister, and Harry an engineer. Charlie
has had thoughts of the Church. The rest
of the boys say he has plenty of 'jaw" if
his mind were made up, but I don't believe
he ever will make it up. My mind is made
up that he will choke on the Thirty-nine
Articles. He is the only sop among our
boys, and he is dreadfully spoony on Cathie,
which is a great bore both to her and the
whole of us ; to me more than anybody else,
for I was understood to look after them and
keep them from running into mischief  at
least till Sir George came home.'

What a responsibility !' exclaimed Iris,
with proper sympathy ; ' and who are all
these boys you have on your mind *?'

Of course sons of papa's brother, Sir
George, out in India. He has been a widower
ever so long, and sent all the boys home
when they were young to papa and mamma's
care. She and papa were glad to have them,
both for their own sakes  since boys are so
much nicer than girls, and because their
father. Uncle George, is a great swell in the
Civil Service, who can not only make good

allowances to his sons, buff is coming back to
provide for us all when his time is out ; 
may die, no doubt, or marry again, or do
something out there before he is able to
think what he is about. I have been a great
deal more with the boys than the girls.
Even Cathie, the sister next me, is three
years younger than I  a soft little mortal,
who can't say bo ! " to a goose or to Charlie.
I flatter myself I can play cricket, and take
a fence, and drive, and row, and chaff. Boys
will chaff and criticize, but I didn't often
give in to them, I assure you.'

These were advantages of education of
which Iris could not boast ; before which,
with their results, she must often sit dumb,
though she had not been used to regarding
herself, or to being regarded by others, asa
particularly weak and helpless young
woman.

LADY Fervor's YOUNG PEOPLE.

There was a budding phase of life of
which Iris in her isolation had known little
or nothing. Except at the Rectors, she had
scarcely come into familiar contact with a
gay, accessible, yet engrossed and restless
group of young people like herself. And at
the Rectory, life had consisted simply of a
family party, into which Iris was admitted
by special favour. It was her fortune in the
weeks spent at Kensington Gore to form one
in a cluster of young people of more varied
elements, not related, not like, for the most
part only recently known to each other, yet
who seemed suddenly, in spite of what might
have been regarded as insurmountable barriers,
to wax well acquainted, and to a certain
extent intimate. The result was produced
largely by the freemasonry of youth, and by

a certain simplicity of character which distinguished
more than one of the number.
Perhaps something was due also to that
curious fusing influence of London, or any-other
great city, on individuals who, however
dissimilar otherwise, resemble each other in
having been brought together unexpectedly,
in coming from other spheres, in being
strangers together in a new field, making a
common experiment in a complex, manifold
life. The group was so far well matched that
it consisted of two girls and two young men
Iris Compton and Marianne Dugdale, Sir
William Thwaite and Ludovic Acton. He
was doing nothing more heroic at this time
than studying the science of the sea and its
ships with their work and warfare, at Greenwich
Hospital, converted into a college for
aspiring able-bodied lieutenants, as well as
for more juvenile naval recruits.

Iris and Sir William Thwaite met as friends
of old standing, and they also met more as
contemporaries and equals than they had ever
done before. Iris had fallen into the habit,
in the past, of classing him among middle-aged
and elderly people, even while she
had felt inclined to coach him and lend

VOL. III. 45

him her countenance in seeking to serve
him. Doubtless this was the consequence
of his real and supposed disqualifications for
figuring among the young people to whom
the Squire of Whitehills should have belonged,
and of the gravity and formality of manner
conspicuous in a man bent on fulfilling his
obligations to society, while very doubtful o f
his power to fulfil them.

It surprised Iris to hear Marianne Dug-dale,
who, after she had found her tongue,
was frank and free in expressing her opinions
on every subject, mention Sir William casually
as ' a nice young fellow.'

Oh I I know what you are thinking of,'
Marianne cried, in answer to Iris's bewildered
look. * He was not always a gentleman,
and he made a foolish marriage, and
went to the bad for a time. I know all
about him,' continued Marianne, who had
a mania for universal knowledge and capability,
and was apt to leap to the conclusion
on slender premises that she was mistress of
both. ' But what of that when he has redeemed
his character % Down where I come
from we would say he could not help the
first, and he was very much to be pitied for

the second. Men are not perfect. If they
are manly, honest fellows, and do their best,
we need not wonder though some of them
have a fall or two. We may be glad when
they can pick themselves up again, as they
do after a spill in the hunting-field, and be
ready to lend them a hand, and expect them
to olive us another if we come to orgies. Oh !
we are not so starched and severe, and, upon
my word, I do not think we are the worse
Christians for it down in my part of Devonshire.
Neither are we such prigs of scholars
or such very fine ladies and gentlemen as to
refuse to forgive a man for a false particle,
or even for a verb or an adjective out of
joint, or because he keeps on his hat, or
does not take off his muddy boots, or bolts
his knife, or puts his feet on the chimney-piece
 not that Sir William Thwaite commits
these enormities to my knowledge ; I merely
used the similes to give point to my assertions.
What would a host of them signify if
he were a man and a gentleman at heart, as 
I am sure he is ? Yes ; I know all about him,
and I say he is a nice young fellow, fairly
handsome, with a fine carriage. He is not
stupid a bit, for he has told me ever so many

45 -2

tidings I wished to hear about India, where
Tom and Ned are going.'

Iris remembered Sir William's passing
another examination in reference to India
with great credit.

Whatever Marianne Dugdale had learnt
she had certainly not been informed, for
whatever reason, that the Squire of White
hills had been a rejected suitor of her
cousin's, an amount of ignorance for which
Iris was devoutly thankful, and which she
earnestly trusted would receive no enlightenment.


Lady Fermor had made a supererogatory
statement that Sir William entertained a
fancy for her other grand daughter. Marianne,
on her part, openly professed an interest in
him. Iris, too, had an interest different in
origin and kind, which included thoughts of
poor Honor Smith, and a wonder whether
she were altogether forgotten. Iris tried to
look at Sir William in a new light with impartial
eyes. He was certainly a young man,
not over thirty, although he looked old for
his age. Strong and comely, in spite of a
certain wayworn look, a trace of trouble, a
shade of sternness, which lent him a kind of

dignity. Yes, there was a homely dignity
about him ; and his manners, though these
were blunt and unsophisticated, were no
honore laboured and artificial. He had ceased
to think of what had become in a measure
habitual to him. Other and infinitely heavier
considerations had totally outweighed social
doo-mas, and from the moment that he had
regained his liberty in this respect, the man
and the gentleman at heart shone out in his
words and actions. Where there is no longer
anything to conceal, and not a grain of pretence,
there may still be rusticity, but there
is no room for vulgarity and pettiness.

Heated hot with burning fears,
And dipped in baths of hissing tears,
And battered with the shocks of doom
For shape and use,'

Sir William was a rustic gentleman, but he
was not unworthy to rank with the best, not
the worst, of the class to which he had risen.
Iris was able to comprehend how a young
gentlewoman, a little rustic herself, rather
masculine, after the fashion of the generation,
in temper and training, with a natural impatience,
and scorn of forms and ceremonies
and nice outward distinctions, should fraternize

with a Sir William, and hold him insincere
esteem, even in high regard, in defiance
of what carping people persistently
remembered and chronicled against him.

It was impossible for Sir William not to
respond within limits to the generosity and
kindness of the girl, as he had done long
ago without bounds in more difficult circumstances,
to the generosity and kindness of
another girl. It was therefore quite true that
he was on very good terms with Marianne
Dugdale, to the extent of submitting to be
chained by her, as if it were a pleasure to
him, and of bluffly chaffing her in return, as he
had never dreamt of chaffing Iris Compton.
It was perfectly possible that something  a
great deal  might come out of these terms.

But Iris soon discovered that another
puppet was to play his part in the little
drama, a puppet with such strength of feelings,
hopes, and wishes, that he threatened
to produce a serious complication of the plot.
Ludovic Acton had been at Greenwich before
the date of Lady Former's arrival in London.
He had been commanded both by his mother
and Lucy to call immediately on his father's
most difficult parishioner. Being greatly

under female commanders from the moment
he put his foot on shore, he had reported
himself at Kensington Gore before Iris was
transplanted there. He had done it in the
way of duty, and with the usual failure of
poetic justice in the affairs of men, in the
very act of filial, fraternal, and neighbourly
goodwill he found himself, as he had soon
to own with a groan, ' completely done for.'

King Lud had happened to pay his first
visit when Lady Fermor was not out of her
room, and he was handed over to a wonderful
dark-eyed girl, with a little mouth, a
square chin, a square yet symmetrical figure,
altogether, habited in a sort of workwoman's
blouse, in which she did not seem to feel the
least put out. She stepped briskly from the
conservatory, where she had been knitting
her brows, and pouting her lips over the dilapidated
rock-work, the rolled-up tarpaulin
which ought to have shaded the roof, the
syringes which would not spout water, the
sickly plants ravaged by the green fly. She
scarcely waited to hear his name, and to
Hasten to his modest explanations and apologies
for intruding on an unknown young lady,
before she told him :

Oh ! T know who you are' (it is a wonder
she did not say, * I know all about you).
You are the son of the Rector down at
Lambford. Your people said you would call,
and I am glad, because sailors are handy,
and you may be able to help me. Come and
see the disgraceful wreck of a London
conservatory.'

King Lud went and saw and worked with
Marianne Dugdale for half an hour, and did
not conquer, unless in the trifles of nailing
up some of the higher dropping-down cork
rock-work, erecting the tarpaulin in its proper
place, clearing out the pipes of the syringes
and playing them on the astonished green fly.
As if that were not enough for the entomological
specimens, Marianne gave her order,
Smoke, Mr. Acton  smoke !" It was like
the royal child's command to the wise and
witty author of the ' Three Estates,' ' Pay,
Davie Lindsay  pray !'

King Lud, too, complied forthwith, consoling
himself for having to light and pull* a
cigar in such a presence by the true conviction
that those pretty fresh lips, frank and
fearless as they were, had never been soiled
by so much as a cigarette, for the country

Amazon of high degree is more innocent and
unsophisticated than the same Amazon belonging
to the town. He was conquered
himself, hard hit, beaten to the wall at the
first bout. He had never seen such eyes, or
worked in company with such clean baby
fingers. He had never met a girl so genuine,
so original, so unconscious, so bright. He
might have added he had never been so
warmly congratulated for small achievements,
or so soundly rated for sundry little
mistakes  in the height and flutter of his
admiration, in fastening the cork and the
tarpaulin.

In his entire subjugation her Majesty's
officer called aofain at Kensington Gore on
the following day, under the poor pretext of
renewing his smoking operations against the
green fly, which the butler could do more
effectually than a visitor could manage it.
On his second call Ludovic saw Lady Fermor,
and she who had never been deficient in hospitality
to young men, made him free of the
house during her stay in town. She did not
withdraw this permission, as she might have
done, when she found that the Rector's son
availed himself of it on every possible and

impossible occasion, until his visits to town
must have made a tremendous inroad on his
studies at Greenwich. In fact it came to this,
that King Lud, who had been heretofore the
most diligent and devoted member of his profession,
appeared to be living in the College
at Greenwich for the sole purpose of paying
court to somebody in a house at Kensington
Gore.

Lady Fermor was very old, but she was
neither blind nor deaf to the extent of the
infirmities interfering seriously with her intercourse
with her followers. She was nota
fool, and she had other plans and projects
for her grandchild ; but she was 'a cool hand'
and a bold player. She was fond of a fairfield
and no favour in the game of life, and it
is to be feared she had downright satisfaction
in making mischief between men and women.
She let Ludovic Acton call or come to dinner
or form one of the escorts to the girls as he
and they chose. Lady Fermor let Marianne
Dugdale talk to the lieutenant by the hour,
satisfying her inquisitiveness, which was immense,
about all the ships he had been in, and
all the service he had seen, about the North
Sea and the Coast of Africa, and the dockyards

at home, about his experience of the
different modes and rules for cricket and
foot-ball and lawn-tennis.

Lady Fermor never interfered. She seemed
to suffer the young people to take their swing
in the easiest, most inconsiderate manner. Yet
when Iris came to think of it afterwards, she
could not recall one occasion when the old
woman, apparently doing nothing, had not so
held the shuttle and chequered, twisted,
turned back and directed anew the threads
which were to weave the pattern in the web
of destiny, that Marianne Dugdale, who
imagined herself a free agent, did not stay at
home when she had promised to go out, walk
with Sir William when the arrangement had
been that she should walk with Mr. Acton; did
notwear the one man's flowers and sing the one
man's songs when she had accepted the other's
bouquets and undertaken to warble his ditties.

The policy might be Machiavellian, yet it
was simple enough, and it had a foundation
prepared for it in a headstrong girl, calling
out for her own way and getting it, but
swerving aside and giving in because she had
still those troublesome commodities  a conscience
and a heart, not to speak of a susceptible

vanity and a temper even more susceptible
and easily played upon. She had
also a large supply of what old-fashioned
books call * frowardness which owned no
controls and could be reckoned on to influence
Marianne according to the principle on
which some pigs and donkeys are driven, if
one may be forgiven the inelegance of the
simile  start them with their faces due north
and they are safe to back due south.

Still more ready-made material for an
enemy of Marianne Dugdale's to employ to
her detriment, was to be found in the fact
that she was a born coquette  born, not
made  above all, not in deliberate, guileful,
perhaps mercenary practice, which constitutes
all the difference in the world. Without
doubt, her rearing among the tribe of boys
who were as good as brothers, yet who were
not brothers, gave early stimulus and scope
to the bent; for she liked attention, not from
one squire alone, but from all who came
within her orbit. Without thinking what
she was doing, without any conscious motive,
especially without a set aim to an end, Marianne
had an instinctive, exquisite enjoyment,
inscrutable to Iris, in smiling and frowning,

praising and blaming, pleasing and teasing,
coaxing and vexing  as the waters came down
at Lodore  now Sir William, now Ludovic
Acton. This was done in a manner calculated
to set the two youno men, who had
always been on civil terms, and when left to
themselves were growing friendlier every day,
as much by the ears as if they had both been
their tormentor's devoted slaves.

That one of the gentlemen was Marianne
Dugdale's devoted slave neither she nor anyone
else could long deny, while she was inflicting
alternate ecstasy and misery upon
him. But jesting at scars because she had
never felt a wound, Marianne did not mind
the responsibility in the least ; if anything, it
added zest to her entertainment. Thus she
never ceased laughing at poor King Lud's
moon of a face and his tow-coloured hair, apparently
without any clear and forcible conviction
that these not strictly picturesque
attributes belonged to a brave, honest gentleman
on whom it was a shame and disgrace for
any woman to inflict an unnecessary pang.

In her thoughtlessness, her gaiety and
kindness degenerated into careless selfishness
and positive cruelty. Iris could utter no

protest, though her heart waxed hot within
her, because there were considerations which
stopped her mouth, and because Marianne
would not be preached to, and must be taught
neither by precept nor example, but by what
is frequently the grimmest, as it is certainly
the most efficient teacher of all, bitter experience.
Hers was really a fine, open, even
loyally affectionate nature, but in the meantime
it was in a state of chaos, not cosmos.
There was no reign of duty in the soul, no
supreme sovereignty tending to bring every
thought and affection into noble subjection.
There was no leading, binding, restraining
principle in her life, though she had been baptized
and confirmed, and called and believed
herself a Christian.

It was a lively surprise to Iris at first, when
King Lud presented himself day after day at
Kensington Gore, without a single musical
instrument in his pocket, when he was punctilious
in never asking for music more than
once in the twenty-four hours, since Marianne
Dugdale, though she could sing like a lark
when she chose, was only moderately fond of
the joyous science, and had been heard to
speak disparagingly of musical men.

Accordingly Ludovic Acton was resentful
to the verge of repressed fury when Iris referred
without malice to his stock of musical
instruments, and expressed innocent surprise
that he no longer cared to accompany anybody
on the piano. ' Why did you say that ?' he
took her to task as if she had been one of his
sisters, and with as much indignation as if she
had accused him of conduct unbecoming
officer and a gentleman.  I am not fonder
of music than other fellows.' Then in answer
to her ' Oh, Ludovic !' ' I mean than other
fellows who have idle time on their hands,
which they do not well know how to get rid
of I say, Iris  Miss Compton  it was rather
nasty of you  I mean it was hard upon me,
to bring up that about my flutes and guitars.
I am sick of them, and shall have a private
sale the next time I am afloat. You have
heard her  Miss Dugdale  laugh at caterwauling
fellows, and no poor beggar likes to
be an object of ridicule in his set.'

The abandonment of the former ruling passion
in favour of a far mightier, of one of the
great fulcrum which bend and twist the
human heart, so that vestiges of its work
often survive all else  even the object which

called it forth, struck Iris as a most formidable
symptom of poor King Lud's fatal malady.

The season was approaching its close when
Lady Fermor came up to town, and she made
that an excuse for no formal bringing out of
her grand-daughters. However, they came in
for the fag-end of the gaieties, which were
still fresh and agreeable to them. Country
neighbours of Marianne Dugdale's fortunately
in town, one or two Eastham families that
had condoned Lady Fermor's offences long
ago, supported the two girls, stopped them
when they were driving with Lady Fermor
in the Park, offered in the persons of the
matrons to chaperon the cousins, and invited
or procured invitations for them to the last
plays, operas, flower-shows, breakfasts, and
balls. These invitations, by Lady Fermor's
desire, included Sir William Thwaite and Mr.
Acton.

The girls were called upon to wear their
pretty demi-costumes, their daintiest walking
array, with bonnets which were little more
than coronets of flowers, parasols which were
mere handfuls of lace, and gloves that were
buttoned to the elbow and beyond the elbow,
and yet were the most fairylike gloves in the

world. But what was the effect of any walking
garb to the shining or gauzy evening
robes with more flowers, the hair turned
back or in little waves as usual, in the most
natural and quietest fashion, but for the
diamond band or the diamond stars which
flashed out from the red gold or the dusky
brown little heads !

Lady Fermor not only grudged none of
these expenses, she ordained they should be
incurred, and evinced a certain cynical satisfaction
in hearing that her two fair young
grand-daughters formed an admirable contrast
to each other.

Iris waltzed again, as a matter of course,
with Sir William, and if either remembered
the former occasion he or she made no sign.
It was no business of hers, neither did she
know it at the time, but one of the balls
happened at a great house which had given
a similar rout years before, when a member
of the present company had stood among the
rabble round the door and envied the very
footman whose flesh-coloured calves were so
much at home on those stairs, and asked
despairingly whether he could ever be at ease
in such regions ?

VOL. III. 46

Now, SO far as that went, he was as undisturbed
in mind as when he traversed the old
barrack-yards, and sometimes Iris Compton
hung upon his arm, but the spirit of the dream
was changed.

In addition to a taste of the good things
of the season, there were many sights for
Lady Fermor's young people to see, and this
business they prosecuted with commendable
assiduity and considerable satisfaction. The
last would have been still greater if there
had been no such disturbing element as the
rival claims of Sir William and King Lud,
with the rapidly developing moon-struck
madness of the lieutenant.

Still these were exacting, engrossing hot
days and nights when there was always
something to be done which could not be
put off, whether it were an excursion to Kew
or Richmond, an old-fashioned survey of
the Tower or the Mint or the Mansion
House, services at Westminster or St. Paul's,
visits to the Ladies' and the Strangers' Galleries
in St. Stephen's, an enterprising hunt for
old china, dawdling at Morris's or Burnet's,
distributions of prizes for window-gardening
under difficulties, mornings at the crack

training school for nurses, the Hospital for
Incurables, the last best creole. It was a
marvellous jumble, and though Iris was
tempted to think the unlooked-for holiday-was
alloyed by the sport which Marianne
Dugdale could not resist making with her
two Samson, perhaps without it the whirl
would have lacked some of the eternal
play of human passion and warfare of
mortal life. There would have been a
certain spice to the intercourse absent if it
had not been for the sentiment that manifestly
pervaded the contending factions. To
say nothing of the under currents which
might be doing their own work, there was
something rousing in the spirit of indignation
which filled Iris when she saw one
or other of the victims specially ill-used.
There was zest for more than one person
in every event likely to satisfy the craving
curiosity to know beyond mistake whether
or not Sir William and Marianne Dugdale
were merely playing parts at Lady Fermor's
instigation and under her influence, whether
the play might not grow second nature and
end in earnest, whether Marianne's maiden
meditations were still as fancy free as she

462

professed, or whether they pointed to the
well-endowed Baronet or to the poor naval
officer.

Marianne had made one sacrifice for the
sake of her family, but those who argued,
from that event, that she would make another
and greater, on her own behalf, did not
understand the girl. She was more likely to
act on a whim, an impulse, a chance  as Iris
never could have acted, and possibly repent
and cause another to repent at leisure, for
the rest of her life. It was likely to remain
an unsolved problem to the last moment
what Marianne Dugdale might or might not
do.

Iris, without a severe analysis of motives,
without outspoken confidence as yet even
between her and her old playfellow King
Lud in his need, acted as consoler to each
of the young men in turn ; for wounded pride,
and mortified masterfulness, and sheer irritation
caused by an exasperating process, require
soothing, as well as outraged love.

But Iris was angriest and sorriest for
Ludovic Acton. Sir William might put in a
claim as having borne the brunt of repeated
disappointments and trials, but he had learnt

at last to wear a calm front to the world.
And if he were proposing again to marry on
the prompting of a third person, after all he
had suffered, because a suitable alliance was
desirable for a man in his position, then there
was a good deal that was incorrigible in his
conduct which, though it encountered loss,
could not command sympathy.

Sometimes Marianne took it into her unaccountable
vagrant fancy to take umbrage
at all the three others, and would as good as
quarrel with them so far as they would let
her. She would withdraw herself as much
as possible from association with them , go
about her own business and leave them to
bear each other company and get on as well
as they could without her.

It was then a pitiable case with the poor
fellow who gave himself up to uncalled-for
self-reproaches and desperate apprehensions
because of his mistress's inexplicable displeasure.
But in spite of his groans, there
was a considerable amount of fraternization
between the deserted members of the party,
and a good deal of pensive and humorous
enjoyment  not so much in airing their
grievance, for they were too true and too

much inclined to be attached to Marianne
Dugdale to take that course, but in enduring
her capricious humour and the temporary
banishment, if not from her actual presence,
from her goodwill and merry conversation.
When the affair was hopeless the company
would let her go off by herself, as she insisted
on doing, to secure friends for whom she would
flaunt a preference that passed away soon.
The trio would bring themselves to obey her
literally, and let her alone, stamping about
the back drawing-room or sulking in the
conservatory, while those in disgrace would
linger apart in the farthest window, or would
pluck up a spirit and take it upon them to
get their hats and stroll across the road to
the adjoining gardens. There the three would
walk up and down beneath the trees, carefully
keeping in sight of the house lest Marianne
should return to her right mind in a twinkling,
as was her wont, forgive them in a
body without telling them their offence, and
come out after her brief eclipse, the blithest
of them all.

The promenaders would talk Lambford
and Eastham assiduously. It was then that
Iris found out how Sir William had come to

know and to love every hazel copse and
sunny sloping field and rushy brake on
Whitehills. She and Ludovic, who had been
brought up in the parish, were not better
acquainted with its dear old holes and corners
and fonder of them than this comparative
new-comer. Neither could she fail to perceive,
little as it was intruded on hers the
interest he had learnt to take in the people,
especially in those who were most dependent
on the consideration of their neighbours, how
much sympathy he had for them, what good
sense and good feeling and dry humour into
the bargain he showed when he talked of
them, how attentively he listened to every
suggestion on their behalf.

And how many notable books he had
been reading ! Books of which King Lud
had not even heard the names, books which
she had longed for, but had not yet been
able to procure. To think that Sir William,
to whom she had tentatively lent ' Tom
Browns School Days,' in connection with
whom she had not been without thoughts of
adding to the other book the Water Babies'
and ' The Heroes,' by way of tit-bits to encourage
a literary appetite in its infancy,

should have got in advance of her here, ashe
was before her and King Iud in sundry
original, intelligent investigations he had
instituted, mostly in the track of natural
history I His occasional half-eager half-thoughtful
references to those experiments
sounded as if he might live to attain some
distinction among the students of nature.

What advances he had made in true manhood
! How he was casting off the slough
of the lower animal ! How fast he was
growing in his solitary life at Whitehills !
What would Honor have thought of him if
she had lived to see him now % Ah, poor
Honor ! her life could hardly have been his
gain. Her death was part of his emancipation.
But if she saw it all from beyond the
golden gate, from within the silent land,
where she might have found Hughie Guild,
and be walking with him by the water of
life, would she not be more than content ?

GREENWICH AND THE ACADEMY.

King Lud was almost frantic with delight on
account of an ovation which was to be paid
to him, not by the multitudes of the city,
which his great namesake is said to have
founded, but by two or three quite private
and obscure persons, one of whom, a square-shouldered
little individual, with a strong
dash of the child still in her wilful girlhood,
had turned the unfortunate fellow's head.
His friends, with Marianne Dugdale among
them, were to go down to Greenwich to
spend an afternoon there under his leadership
and drink tea in his room. Lady
Fermor declared herself equal to the effort,
even though it had been a dinner in the
Trafalgar, a great deal better than the
Ministerial white-bait dinners, such a dinner
as she had been accustomed to attend at least

once or twice in the season, both there and
at the Star and Garter, Richmond, with
shady cronies whose disreputable names
were no longer heard, while happily the very
scandals in which they had figured were fast
being forgotten.

The day was as fine as could have been
wished for ' a family party,' as Lady Fermor
called it, complaining that there was a danger
of its being as dull as family parties generally
were. They drove down to the dirty little
old town of Elizabethan and naval memories,
and made their way to the grand terrace
before Queen Mary's and Sir Christopher
Wren's Hospital, which time's changes have
converted into a college. Everybody's
spirits rose. How could he or she help it
under the inspiring influence of the blue sky
and the wide flowing river  the great watery
highway to the largest city in the world ?
The widening mouth of the English Thames,
which, though it is little among its mighty
brethren the Volga and the Danube, the
Ganges and the Euphrates, the Nile and
the Niger, the monster Amazon and Mississippi,
yet bears upon its breast such a
huge and precious burden of traffic as they

never knew. A brown ' streak ' turned up
with silver, it swayed and rippled and
throbbed, with its fringes of tall masts and
flapping' sails, from Gravesend to Tapping ;
its Isle of Doors converted into a customhouse
station ; its Hertford ringing with
hammers as when Peter the Great riveted a
bolt there ; its Woolwich Marshes bounding
the Arsenal, where Woolwich infants are
cradled and rocked. Barges laden with hay
and coals crept lazily along with the sunlight
red in their umber-coloured sails. Steamers
churned the water as they darted by, puffing
out grey smoke and wreaths of white vapour.
Here was the column erected to the gallant
young Frenchman Ballot, who earned the
gratitude of a foreign nation by the fruitless
attempt to discover its lost heroes beyond
the terrible barriers of everlasting snows and
huge glittering icebergs. He left half his
tale untold, but there was a living man 
sandy-haired, moon-faced, large - limbed,
standing there, among the everyday group,
who, if he were permitted to leave out his
own doings, could add something to the
fascinating ghastly story.

Within the big domed building was the

Painted Hall, with the portraits of all the
Captains bold of whom the best artist in each
man's day could leave a token. There were
the reflections  often with the show of their
ships at their backs  of Drake and Blake,
Rodney and Anson, Cloudesley Shovel and
Benbow; and in a shrine by himself the
various representations of * Harry Bluff of
whom, when he was a fearless middy, the old
salts had sworn,

One day he'd lead the van ;'

and here he was, from the maimed lad still
foremost in the fray, to the man with many
orders on his breast dying in the cockpit of
the Victory.

As if these were not mighty names enough
to conjure with, and pathetic stories sufficient
to melt the hardest heart, there were the
weather-worn, far-borne, simply tragic relics
of the last holocaust to the spirit of the North
Cape, the sad trophies brought back by Dr.
Bae : battered spoons with familiar crests
and initials, a watch long stopped, torn leaves
from a Bible and from Oliver Goldsmith's
sweet old English inland story, in which
there is no echo of the thunder of the surf,

and little more travelling, after all, than what
is chronicled in the first chapter of the book
of the change from the Blue Bed to the
Brown.

For once King Lud was the most favoured
of men in his surroundings, and he rose to the
occasion. He descanted, all the more tellingly
that it was with modesty and sincerity,
on the true glory of his profession, its adventures,
exposure, self-denial, and self-sacrifice.
Who could think of the advantages of a brood
English estate, even of a fine old English
manor-house and an ancient title, at such a
moment % Not Marianne Dugdale, who was
entranced with all she saw and heard, until
she envied the little boys climbing the riDoino
of the training ship and the very invalids
in the floating hospital of the Dreadnought,
She had the different parts of the vessels, the
science of their steering, the method of their
logs, the movements of their compasses explained
to her. She did not tire of hearing
the curious details of their floss and signals :
she was not at rest till she had walked across
the park where Greenwich Fair was wont to
be held, as far as the Observatory, to have her
watch set by the great dial, and she honoured

the lieutenant by appointing him to conduct
the operation. Iris and Sir William were
strong among the English elms and Spanish
chestnuts, past the railed-in stump of a tree
garlanded with ivy, which is said to have
been a stripling when William and his Normans
conquered Saxon England, to One-tree
Hill, in order not to miss the second of the
three finest views of London, rising dimly
out of the haze and extending in a grand
sweep from the water-towers of the Crystal
Palace to those cupolas of Sir Christopher
Wren's, while all the time the faint hoarse
murmur of the terrible mill which grinds,
not corn, but human hearts and brains, was
heard without ceasing, uttering its fit accompaniment
to the scene. As for Lady Fermor,
she was long ago under the sleepless guardianship
of Soames, being made as comfortable
as circumstances would permit in the lieutenant's
room.

King Lud might live to perform more
lion-like actions than he had yet accomplished.
He might be a full-blown admiral, with his
sandy hair powdered with white, while he
halted on one knee after the fashion of Horatius
Codes, from spent shot or baser rheumatism

; but it was hardly likely that he would
ever spend a happier afternoon than that
which Lady Fermor and her party passed
with him at Greenwich.

Everybody awarded a tribute of praise to
the owner of the room in the Hospital College
for his expert contrivances where space
and convenience were concerned. Everybody
turned over his books and admired the
flowers  Kent dahlias and ofladioli, fragrant
jessamine and heliotrope, with which Ludovic
had promptly provided himself to do honour
to the occasion, and to dispose lavishly on
every side, in order to embellish his plain
bachelor's quarters and poor lieutenant's
equipage.

Sir William Thwaite leant his back against
the chimney-piece, thinking honourably and
humbly how nice and pretty it all looked,
wondering how Acton could manage it, if he
were naturally ' a dab ' at arranging his cabin,
or if the inspiration came with the visit of his
queen to his small lodging. He  Sir William
 did not believe he could have done
anything like it, to save his life, with all
the will in the world, and the accumulated
materials at Whitehills. The only time the

place had been en fete in his day, Sir John's
widow was in command, and she had produced
nothing so spontaneous and refreshing
as this ; but it was too late to take a lesson.

Lady Fermor had the seat of honour  the
single easy-chair in which the lieutenant was
wont to lounge, smoke, and read  nod, Marianne
Dugdale alleged.

The two girls lingered by the high window
looking down on the water, with its never-ending
charm. They were dressed alike in
stuffs of the dusky-red colour which fashion
has called in to take its place, by way of contrast,
among the pale and neutral summer tints
of the last decade. The dark red is especially
welcome with the first breath of autumn,
when all nature is ripening and mellowing to
richer, deeper dyes. The girls were as decorative
as the flowers, and for that matter
they had taken what they liked from King
Lud's abundant treasures. The primrose
and orange nasturtiums, white jessamine,
and purple testament, culled from the lieutenant's
improvised beau-pots and posies,
came out with charming effect against the
Venetian-red background  so did the shell-pink
of Iris's cheeks with the golden-bronze

of her hair, and the creamy-white of Marianne's
skin with the mouse-brown of her 'top.'

The little soberinor sense which was left in
King Lud was all but ravished from him by
Marianne's gracious oflPer to make tea, asserting
brightly that it was just like doing it for
our boys at home,' and summoning him, as
if he had been her special boy, to stand at
her elbow with the camp-kettle  in itself a
pleasant curiosity to her.

The close and collapse of the gala  for all
happy things come to an end here, and nota
few of them, alas ! collapse in the very
process of enjoyment  was brought about
by the intervention of Lady Fermor. Even
she had been taken captive for the moment
by the fresh, heroic, homely elements of the
entertainment, to the extent of being subdued
by them for a little while. But when the
party were taking a final saunter down the
Painted Hall, in which the shadows were
gathering, so that the painted warriors were
growing obscure on their stations, and only
one flaming yellow and red picture, indicating
a ship on fire, stood out from the dull darkness
of the others, like a portent of evil,
Richard was himself again.

VOL. III. 47

Marianne Dugdale was walking as if in a
dream, wonderfully silent for her, with her
brown eyes a little downcast, beside Ludovic
Acton, who, though he wore no uniform,
seemed for the moment transformed  sandy
hair, shyness, softness to women and all, into
one of the heroes on the walls stepped out of
the canvas, reflecting glory on one proud
girl by his notice.

Lady Fermor was stamping along by the
aid of her stick on Marianne's other side.
Suddenly she raised her harsh, highly-pitched
voice, and at the same time cast a meaning,
satirical glance at her grand daughter. ' I
think I miss a picture which ought to have
been here too  that of blubbering Black-eyed
Susan, following her truant ' sweet William"
on board the fleet in the Downs.'

Marianne started, wide-awake, flushing to
the roots of her hair.  Oh ! she was an
odious creature,' she said. * Thank goodness,
she is not here. Indeed, I think a sailor
should have nothing to do with miserable
whimpering sweethearts and wives. His
ship should be his mistress, as a priest should
be wedded to his flock.'

My dear Marianne, I never knew you

had adopted the doctrines of the Roman
Catholic Church remonstrated Iris, laughing
at her friend's vehemence, and feeUnsf
for King Lud, at once Hated from a pinnacle
of exultation and dashed into the depths of
despair.

His very rival commiserated him. ' I
thought blue-jackets carried all before them
when they went a- wooing,' said Sir William,
without any suspicion of cynicism.

They are no better than red-jackets, or
any other jackets,' answered Marianne rather
testily than with an implied compliment.

Very likely she had forgotten Sir William's
former connection with the army, and in good
truth he had no reason to recall it with pride ;
but the most sensible men are silly on some
points, so he blushed a shade with gratification,
though he maintained magnanimously :
You don't mean to say any woman could
have resisted the French chap commemorated
out yonder, or the boy whose statue we saw
in marble, the great statesman's son, who
spoke of his mother and his native town,
and how happy they would be to welcome
him home, when he lay a-dying through
volunteering to carry succour to the fortune

472

the rebellion ? That was before my time ;
but I've some notion what it meant. Supposing
either of them had lived to come
back and lay his laurels at a woman's feet,
do you suppose she would have spurned
them V

The laurels have to be gathered first,'
said Marianne drily ; * and when I come to
think of it, I am sick of what people call
the pomp and circumstance of glorious war'*
What did all these battles and all these
bloodthirsty commodores and rear-admirals
come to ?  1 mean what lasting good did
they do, unless to their blustering, strutting
selves ? Who were really the better for
them ? I believe it would be easier to say
who were a great deal the worse. What
hearts they broke ! How many widows and
orphans they made ! I think I shall go in
for the Quakers and the bloodless victories of
peace.'

But some men must fight that peace maybe
preserved, and the helpless defended from
injury,' remonstrated King Lud, recovering
from the vicious snub administered to him,
with the attendant amazement and discomfiture.
' A sailor's life is far from all

fighting, especially in these days. Our
squadrons lie along many a shore to check
more powerful rascals than slave-dealers.
We crush, in their infancy, aggressions and
outrages to which the barbarities of the slave-trade
are a trifle  short in time and limited
in extent.'

A sort of water-police,' said Marianne
contemptuously.

And sailors are still finding new lands
and helping to civilize wild states,' suggested
Iris a little injudiciously.

Not in my opinion,' alleged Marianne,
with her neat little nose in the air. ' My
conviction is, that frigates and gunboats float
about in disgraceful idleness, in order to
keep up the taxes, which papa is always
groaning over. Besides, we must maintain
a navy which is no longer wanted, in order
to provide genteel sinecures for the younger
sons of gentlemen  fellows who cannot get
along on shore. For my part, I would rather
herd sheep in Australia or hunt ostriches in
Africa, or turn a vulgar, respectable shopkeeper
at home.'

The attack was so outrageous that it
became laughable. The eclipse of the sun

might nevertheless have come to one person
through a girl's spirit of contradiction and
craven susceptibility to ridicule.

But to the others the sun declined in its
ordinary fashion as they skirted the shoulder
of Blockhead with its girdle of villas. It
was a mere sunset, but it was such a sunset
as the neighbourhood of London renders unrivalled
in its kind. Iris was compelled to
acknowledge that the misty flats of Eastham,
or of Holland itself, for that matter, could
do nothing to those marvellous shades of
saffron and gold, faint coral, dusky sorrel, the
dim lilac of the autumn crocus, and a grey
steely blue. Was there something human
in the pathetic glory of the skies above the
great city of vast wealth and grinding
poverty, foulest sin and fairest righteousness,
many crimes and many sorrows, much nobleness,
much holiness, and much innocent,
grateful gladness 1 Did the groans and
curses, tears and sighs, smiles and laughter,
go up from tens of thousands of hearths to
paint themselves in that solemn, subdued
glow \

The Academy was not yet shut ; and out
of many visits one stood out in the remembrance

of the little company that so often
met together in these weeks. They had all
been tolerably united in their criticism. They
had agreed that English landscape-painting
held its own as in the days of Gainsborough
and Constable and old Crone ; that the
mantle of Sir David Wilkie still fell, here
and there, on the painters of the ruggedness
and the humour, the exquisite tenderness of
peasant life with its homely affections. These
were no more sordid and petty now, to the
hands that could draw and the eyes that
could read them, than they were nearly a
century ago to the brave, gentle son of the
Fife manse, and his enthusiastic admirers.
Heroism quailed a little before the cynicism
of the generation, but picturesqueness and
passion made a vigorous stand against the
learned affectation of burning incense to
colour and form alone  colour and form
without a soul human or divine, or else with
a soul rejecting all humanity as devoid of
dignity and interest unless it came in the
shape of pagan Greek myths and Roman
crimes and feasts, sensuous and sensual,
petrified in their passion, cold in their exaggerated
repose, because the faith and heart

of man have alike forsaken them, and they
live only as carefully conceived, exquisitely
executed conceits and richly decked phantoms,
dragged painfully from a past which, having
no parallel in the present, can scarcely be
regarded as the type of the life of all the
ages.

One at least of the visitors was sorry, with
a yearning regret and a shamed mortification,
that the sacred art which once made Italy,
Flanders, and Spain glorious  on which men
spent their lives  into which they could then
throw their hearts  was so feebly and scantily
represented in Christian England. Iris was
inclined to ask, 'Will there come a renaissance
here also ? and will the Christ on His cross,
the Virgin Mother, and the noble army of
martyrs replace once more Apollo and Venus
with their votaries ?*

Most people will allow that it becomes intime
weary work for eyes and brains to study
even the flower of the year's pictures. It
will be so even when the much-tried and
abused hanging-committee have done their
duty perfectly, in which case there will cease,
no doubt, to be painter hermits and misanthropes,
Timons of Athens in art, who

decline in savageness or scorn to permit the
muddle-headed, vulgar-minded public to gaze
on the artist's transcendent, mysterious
achievements. But it is not so universal an
axiom to the many, it may come with a
shock of surprise to some, to learn that it is
possible for bodily fatigue to end in crossness
of temper even with the young and strong,
the ardent and intelligent. For that matter,
still more with the young and strong than
with the middle-afyed or the old and feeble,
who have been compelled to bear the brunt
of many a burden  be it a pleasure, and to
feel the weariness of life even in its most
enjoyable hours.

Will it be believed that Marianne Dugdale,
after having entered with much enthusiasm
on this as on other rounds, by the time she
felt a falling to pieces of the backbone, a
heaviness and ache of the brows, a slight
swimming of the eyes, and giddiness of the
brain, was about as much out of humour as
could be said of an impatient-tempered girl
who, if she were not arrested in time, would
develop, without fail, into a hard as well as a
true, a fiery no less than a warm-hearted,
vixen ?

*What !' does anybody ask; Ms it possible
that such an ill-bred, captious girl, who
played with a gallant, modest gentleman's
devotion, and ungratefully turned upon him
in the height of his happiness, spoiling it
utterly that afternoon at Greenwich, can
still have  followers," in the vulgar sense of
the term, and fast friends worthy of the
name ?'

In the first place, there is an undeniable
and a piquant stimulating charm  to begin
with, at least  in the natures which are rarely
two hours alike. Such dispositions appeal
at once to the pride and to the chivalry of
certain men, to tame the shrew, and to save
her from the tyranny of her humours. These
consist not infrequently of the heady effervescence
of good qualities suffered to ferment and
run to waste  hatred of dissimulation, indignation
at injustice and wrong, strength of attachment
to another person, violence of disgust
with one's foolish self Above all, Marianne
Dugdale's present companions possessed the
touch-stone which could go beneath the
surface and penetrate to the core of her
character. They looked on her with kind,
friendly eyes, and could not help being fond

of her. The two men and the woman knew
it was only fair to recognise that if one of
them had been evidently more tired than the
girl was, or had met with the slightest accident,
or had become suddenly a little ill, or
even had been merely old and tottering like
Lady Fermor, whom her grand-daughters
had no cause to love and honour, Marianne
would instantly have come to the front like
a heroine, would not only have borne any
suffering of her own like a martyr, but would
have died sooner than confess to such sufferings.


As it was, however, Marianne commenced
to snap up her companions' harmless remarks
and execute half-comical, childish growls at
which no one ventured to laugh, to flout the
others, to flounce about by herself.

Soothing was tried in vain, compromises
were disdainfully rejected, proposals to bring
the day's visit  the final visit to the Academy
to a summary close scouted at, humble
suggestions of an adjournment to the 
for a glass of claret and a slice of
chicken, or a cup of tea and a stale bun,
treated as a positive insult. When it came
to this pass, Marianne's adherents drew discreetly

apart, freed her from their observation,
and sought to occupy themselves with
what remained of their morning's work.
Only King Lud was too miserable to accomplish
the assumption, or practise the restraint
of indifference. He feared his mistress might
be ill, for it was quite possible that Marianne
would only display her bodily distress in this
perplexing, mental fashion. He knew at
least that she was unhappy for the moment,
and he could not endure the thought of
abandoning her to her unhappiness. He
followed her at a respectful distance, patiently
waiting for any sign of relenting and recovery,
when he would gladly take upon
himself the blame of having been stupid, tiresome,
and positively cruel in inciting an unfortunate
girl to do too much, and exert
herself till she was half dead.

Iris and Sir William were together at the
farther end of the room. He was pausing
and brightening at some Indian scenes,
showing his companion where the cane-brake
or the mangrove swamp was trustworthy or
at fault, explaining the native costumes and
indicating the castes. He stopped at the
occasional portraits of military officers as

pointedly as if he were going to salute them,
and became excited and exultant over the
likeness of one who had been a chief in Sir
William's campaign. It was clear that he
bore no malice against the service, that the
disgrace with which it had threatened him
had faded away from his mind, from the time
that he had confessed and acknowledged the
justice of the sentence. It was possible that
in place of being humbled by the stripes torn
from his arm, the ignominy of the lash
hanging over his head, and the expulsion
from the ranks in which he had risen to bean
officer, it was the scar on his neck and
breast, and the sword-cut across his arm,
which for a moment burnt again with the
proud consciousness that he too had been a
soldier, and had fought and bled for England
and his colours.

Unexpectedly the couple came upon a
picture hung low which they had not observed
on their previous visits. It was not a striking
picture in size and situation, or in more thana
moderate degree of artistic merit. It was
the subject which arrested the two gazers,
paled their cheeks, dimmed their eyes, brought
a quiver to their compressed lips. The

painter unknown to fame had represented a
drowned woman, washed gently enough on a
pebbly shore by the rippling waves of a sea
no longer raging in the fury of a storm.
The limbs, those of a fine, strong young
woman, were disposed decently and peacefully,
as if a friend's hand had laid them to
rest ; the face turned up to the summer sky
was unmarred in its still serenity. The head
lay cushioned, as it were, on the wealth of
brown hair which had broken loose and
streamed like so much seaweed back from
the bare brow and blanched cheeks. So had
Honor lain on the Welsh beach. The
thoughts of both of the spectators flew back
to the disaster. Then the attention of the
pair became concentrated and fascinated
by a likeness  a double likeness. It was
not wonderful that with their minds full
of a similar catastrophe and its victim, Sir
William and Iris should see a resemblance
to the late Lady Thwaite in everything, save
in the rich warm colouring which, to be sure,
the cold sea and colder death had already
stolen from her cheeks and lips before the
husband was called upon to identify the
body of his wife. But there was no reason

why either of the two, looking fixedly and
silently at the picture, should simultaneously,
as if by contact of thought, detect traits the
same as those with which they were familiar
in a living face in that very room. Sir
William and Iris had never before compared
Honor Smith to Marianne Dugdale. Size,
colouring, circumstances, were all so different,
that the comparison sounded absurd even
now; yet there were the friends of both
making it decidedly and unmistakably, until
the eyes which had been averted looked
into each other and claimed the wondering
admission.

You see it also ? Poor Honor and Miss
Dugdale !' exclaimed Sir William, half under
his breath ;  I never once thought of it before.'

Nor I,' responded Iris, as low as if she
were exchanging secrets with him.

They did not say another word. She
glanced at him and seemed to find a shadow
of half-superstitious awe on his manly, ruddy
face. Was he revolving the curious undefined
law, that what has been shall be again,
on which gamblers base their calculations ?
The unexplained but acknowledged fact that,
in the history of men as of nations, events

often repeat themselves, against all reason,
against all warning, in a mysterious, well-nigh
gruesome fashion % Was he judging rashly
that it was vain for him to struggle against
his fate *? Did he seek to persuade himself
that in this direction, after all, might lie at
once the atonement for his past errors, and
the building up of a new and higher character ?

When Iris and Sir William rejoined
Marianne Dugdale, she had so far come to
herself as to suffer the companionship of
the faithful lieutenant, and was no longer
treating: him worse than doo: or mouse before
she could consent to dote on him for ever.
But the union was not indissoluble. Sir
William. Thwaite approached her with a
forcible appeal and a pathetic reverence
expressed in an eager concern for her welfare.

*Are you tired out. Miss Dugdale? will
you not allow me to find a seat for you % I
will manage it, never fear, though I have to
turn out by force that stout old gentleman,
and that puppy-dog of a lad on the next
sofa. I see you have your fan, let me fan
you. I have a long, strong, steady arm ; I
could work a flail or a punkah without much
effort. After you're a bit rested and refreshed.

we'll drive straight home and do no more today.'


Thus the girl was caught and transfixed
by the change from simple friendliness and
from the half-frank chaff, the half-sparring
flirtation into which Marianne Dugdale would
have beguiled a man engaged the day before
to the object of a lifelong attachment, or a
colonial bishop just consecrated and on the
eve of starting for the most murderous of
half-heathen dioceses.

Iris knew that Sir William was moved by
the recollection of his dead wife, whom he
was confounding in a manner with Marianne
Dugdale. But Ludovic Acton had no such
clue to the problem. He was compelled to
believe that his passive rival had suddenly
become active and dead in earnest ; while he
was at the same time  from the support of
Lady Fermor, doubtless  so well assured of
the success of his suit, that he was already
appropriating the tone of an accepted, privileged
lover. He was proceeding to take care
of Marianne, control, and even gently reproach
her, in a manner which she would
certainly not have stood from another person,
however much his unbounded devotion might

VOL. III. 48

have entitled him to forbearance. But, alas,
alas! Marianne was not offended or aggrieved
in this instance ; she smoothed down her
ruffled plumes, and submitted with a good
grace to be looked after and comforted. She
glanced with shy, puzzled inquiry into Sir
William's intent face. Her compunction for
something like a child's naughtiness, her swift
brightening up again were for Sir William and
not for King Lud. She was a woman, therefore
she was caught by novelty and mystery ;
she was a woman, so she was fickle as the
inconstant wind. She looked ready to be
wooed and won by the altered aspect of the
suitor whom Lady Fermor had provided for
her grand-daughter, as King Lud had known
all along to his sorrow and dread.

ON THE BORDERS.

London was fast becoming a hiofh-class social
desert, a hot wilderness to be abandoned to
its tradespeople and its poor ; even they were
contemplating excursions to Margate, and
tramps to the hop-gardens.

Lady Fermor was about to carry out the
second part of her programme, and to save
her from the danger of behoof left to the insipid
society of two ' bread-and-butter misses
she settled that she could journey by short
states as far as the neighbourhood of the first
Scotch moor with unlet shooting to which
the young men in her train might be induced
to accompany her. No doubt Ludovic Acton
was in daily expectation of an appointment to
a ship, and might have to leave on a moment's
notice, but in the meantime he served as well
as another. The old despotic schemer, whose

482

excess of worldly wisdom sometimes led her
astray, was of opinion that the poor lieutenant
with his frantic passion, at which she was
able to jeer and laugh, served in some degree
as a foil and stimulus to Sir William in what
must prove his suit.

King Lud had not given up in despair.
No man worthy of the name will easily do
so, when the prize to be resigned is the centre
of his fondest hopes and aspirations. He
had fallen out and made it up again with
Marianne Dugdale many times since the day
at the Academy. He was still not without a
lingering hope that the privilege of travelling
with her might do something for his
cause. At least, it afforded desperately delightful
opportunities for being at once the
happiest and the most miserable fellow in the
world  happy with a delirious satisfaction in
the mere consciousness of being in her presence,
of watching her and serving her 
miserable in knowing how soon the close
proximity to bliss would come to an end anyway,
and what a grievous probability existed,
that by indulging his inclinations and feasting
his passion, he would only reap additional disappointment
and wretchedness in the end,

when the suspense was over, Marianne
was Lady Thwaite presiding at Whitehills,
and he a broken-hearted Lieutenant far at
sea.

In the beginning of the trip, King Lud's
star was in the ascendant. Marianne was
radiant and gracious in the enjoyment of
all the pleasurable excitement and constant
change of scene characteristic of an excursion
such as she had never taken before.
Since it was conducted to suit the requirements
of a woman of Lady Former's position
and aoe, there was not the slightest strain on
any young person's powers. Indeed, Marianne
used her Englishwoman's privilege of
grumbling, simply because she had that most
charming of all adventures of a phaeton running
in her head, and was possessed by a
rueful persuasion that she too could have
driven many a mile under sunshine and
shower, and the merry moonlight : and if she
had not been equal to playing on a guitar and
singing appropriate songs under difficulties,
she would at least have been quite fit for the
gay scramble at bezique, and the judicious
balancing of two encroach hers on her freedom
at the end of the day. But even a journey

in first-class railway carriages by short stages
was not to be despised, when the destination
of the travellers was the land of the mountain
and the flood, of romance and canniness.
The shortness of the stages and the breaking
of the progress by a day's rest occasionally,
to enable Lady Fermor to dine deliberately
at her usual hour, to go to bed early and rise
late, in order to recruit her forces, also permitted
exploring strolls in every direction,
and subordinate excursions in the interest of
the younger members of the party. Thus
the banks of the Severn were visited, the
ancient streets of Chester perambulated, a
raid made into North Wales, and merry
Carlisle with its castle and cathedral learnt
off by heart. The travellers were then not
far from the Scotch Borders, and the final
halting-place, the heathery wells of Moffat,
did not lie much beyond the Marches. But
unluckily, Lady Fermor caught cold, with a
little cough, which teased her in the next
stage of her journey, so that she adopted the
resolution of stopping short and staying for a
couple of nights at an old-fashioned inn, in
which she recollected having been fairly served
many years before. It lay at the junction of

the sister countries, and had originally stood
on a great coach-road, a good deal frequented
in its time. But since the establishment of
railways and new routes, and the withdrawal
of the coaches from the old tracks, nearly the
whole of the traffic had departed from the
place ; still the old inn stood, and continued
a house of lodofino and entertainment for man
and beast, on a new foundation, its later
energies having been directed to affording
board and lodDfinof to families seeking a
summer retreat, and to furnishing a resort
for the anglers who frequented the ' backs '
and ' burns ' in the vicinity.

Lady Fermor declared that her old, plain,
comfortable rooms, which where fortunately
vacant, had not fallen off appreciably, and
that she was satisfied she could have all she
wanted, till a little rest enabled her to get rid
of her cold.

It was a matter of congratulation to Iris
and Marianne especially, that they should
make this halt in an out-of-the-wav corner, and
begin their acquaintance with Scotland by
an entrance which mio;ht be made on foot,
and was not much frequented and rendered
beaten ground to the destruction of all original

traits and native simplicity and individuality.


As for the male animal, usually so impatient
of delay, and restive under what is a
purely soothing and agreeable element to the
female, the two young men were in that
normal condition which occurs or ought to
occur to a man only once in his life. They
were at the beck and call of the women ; the
young fellows were meek and docile, ready to
assent cheerfully to any arrangement, eager to
display themselves in their best colours as
they would never be again. For anything
more, Sir William showed himself less drawn
to Marianne when she was full of glee and
enthusiasm, than when the shadow of a
trouble, however groundless and self-made,
hung over her. He left her to a considerable
extent to enchant or plague King Lud, who
was thus still hovering on the confines of
gaining or losing the prize of his life, while
Sir William nursed Lady Fermor, made his
own observations, or walked about soberly
with Miss Compton.

There was something of quaint dignity in
the rural aspect of the inn. It was a steep-roofed
stone house of considerable pretensions.

The walls were rough dashed and
whitewashed, and further covered by honeysuckle
in blossom, and the first ' red red rose '
of Scotland which the English visitors had
seen. They were told the house was an old
Border mansion-house, much more recent in
date than the crumbling grey towers and
towns they had recently seen in Cumberland,
but still old enough to have been beheld by
Prince Charlie, had he looked that way in
his memorable marches to and from Carlisle.
The house stood in a rough paddock, shaded
by a few gnarled old trees, and the whole lay
in the shelter of the four sentinels  Skid-daw
and Safely rising to the south, with
Criffell and the Lead Hills starting up to the
north.

The party had private rooms, and so did
not come in contact with possible dukes and
probable bagmen, chatty or frigid, kindly or
selfish old and young ladies. But Iris and
Marianne made their own of a modest yet
frank young chambermaid, the daughter of a
neighbouring Scotch ploughman. She had
lived all her life in the vicinity, and could
tell her eager questioners the local names and
identify to their satisfaction the merest purple

crown of every peak and the misty flash of
all the ' wan waters ' far and near. She was
more intelligent than the generality of her
compeers in England  the three hundred
years or so of parish schools in Scotland
having had their effect on the brains of the
population. She took evident pride in her
birthplace and country, and proceeded, on a
little solicitation, to pour forth all the old
stories which had gathered round a famous
locality.

It was a weel-kenned part since, mem.
A handle bonnie English eddies and wilful'
English lads sought it out ; whiles there
were Scotch eddies and gentlemen came in
secret, as far as the bounds o' Dumfriesshire
and Kirkcudbrightshire, and rode cochin
wa' in braid day. But there was nae necessity
for the like o' them taking sic a tramp ;
they just did it to be neebour-like. What for
did they come, young eddies, are you skin' ?
Lost 1 div you no ken this was ane o' the
towns*  my father ay maintains it was the
chief  where rinawa' marriages were card

The term ' toon ' is used freely in primitive Scotch
for any better sort of house  farm-house or mansion-house
 as well as for a ' burgh-toon.'

aff, the knot tied and the couple buckled, so
that neither father nor mither, nor law-lord,
nor minister o' the kirk, nor the king hissed'
could reeve man and wife asunder again.'

Oh, how nice ! how funny 1' cried Marianne,
' that we should have come by chance
to such an inn ! Tell us about these runaway
marriages, Jeannie. Did any happen
in your time 1 Did you ever see one V
while Iris prepared to listen with interest
and amusement.

'Weel, I cannot just say I have, mem,'
Jeannie was forced to admit, a little crestfallen
at having to fail ' fine, lightsome English
young eddies' in such an important particular
as would have been supplied by her
having been an eye-witness to the deed, and
so able to give personal evidence with regard
to all that happened. ' Leastways I have
never seen sic grand trouts as I have heard
my father and mither, and still mair, my
grandmother  wha's living to this day with a'
her wits about her  crack about to their
cronies mony a time. Sic marriages hae
been going out o' fashion among gentlefolks
for mair than ae generation. But I hae seen
a wheen ploughman billies, after a hiring-market,

the worse o' drink for the mast part,
and as mony tapis of field-workers 
bondagers, folk ca' them here  and servant
lasses  they serena nice  gang afore auld
Fernie who had learnt the trade when it was
flourishing', and still wasna unwilling' to win a
shilling or twa by trying the auld trick,
though the ministers on illa side, o' a' denominations,
are wild now against it, and
fit to rug the head aff anybody that does
sicca work. And, mem, it wasna a' fun,'
continued Jeannie solemnly, for like a good
conscientious lass she was exercised in mind
by the minister's condemnation, every time it
recurred to her memory. ' Full lads and
silly lasses have been carried aff their feet, and
had to find them again an' rue their madness
over late. I hae seen a pair lad that wasna
villain enough to forsake even the licht lass
that hanna been ill to court, and was his
marrow from the moment they had joined
hands, come up next morning, a' shaken', to
the farm-toon where I was living in service,
to seek his wife, an' hae to be tolled while o'
the blanket lasses was she ; and 1 mind a daft
lassie fit to greet her heart foot, because she
had to gang her wa's  for life, mind ye, mem 

wi' a lad she neither kenned nor cared for,
seen' that she had only drawn up wi' him the
day afore, for nae thing save to vex her ain
lad, whom she had quarrelled wi' nae further
gave than the market morning's

Ah, that was bad !' said Marianne, disappointed
in her turn. ' I am afraid your
ministers are right, and runaway marriages
are not what they should be.'

Weel,' said Jeannie, with her amor 'patrice
and her Scotch looic resisting even her
loyalty to her minister, ' I'm thinking' there's
something to be said on faith sides. The
bravest bridegroom I saw here was nae mair
than a writer laddie, an' he ran wa' wi' his
auld maister's doctor  a lassie wi' silver.
But her father was dead, and she was a sat
stool, and had a lang-headed brother who
wanted to keep the silver in the family  that
was to him and his bairns  sae he was guardian'
her day and night an' would hae hindered
her frae being married ava ; and they said the
writer lad, whether he had the silver in his ee
or no, was douce and decent, and would be
gude enough till her  far better than her ain
flesh an blue. Noo wasna that a deliverance
wrocht by a rinawa' marriage V demanded

Jeannie triumphantly. ' My granny
minds o' a sir fracas about a wicket yer
whom nothing would serve but that his
gently* bit doctor should marry as auld an'
grand and wicket a sinner as hisses. Her
true love would see the shameful' sacrifice,
sae he up and fled wi' the lass. He was a
jailor or a lodger lad  ane o' the twa, I
forget while  a bonnie, brave young man,
and he brocht the lassie here. They had but
to say twa words to be beyond the power o'
ony fathers, to belong to ane another as was
ordained, so that she could follow the drum
or sail the seas wi' him, and only death might
part them.'

Come, this is better,' cried Marianne, with
a bright colour in her pale cheeks. ' Tell us
more about it, Jeannie. What excitement
there must have been ! Did the couple come
dashing up to the door, their horses covered
with foam, and the parents and guardians in
hot pursuit V

Na, that wasna the way illa day. Sic

wild work and desperate risks were not tried

often, though I hae heard o' horses been' shot

dead frae the foremost carriage, and drivers

From the French gentille.

bribed to lame the pair senseless beasts, or
to tint the road and humble over their
carry in the middle o' a peat bog, that took
illa man, that tried to stand up, to the boughs
in water-holes, wi' nae means o' getting' on,
except by shank's naigie. But whiles, as in
the story I'm tellin', the father was sae close
that the lovers dared nae drive up to the
front door lest they should be overtaken afore
they were made one. They left their empty
chaise in a dip o' the road mair than a mile
wa', as orin there had been a break-down. The
driver galloped on his best horse  and they
said it cast illa shoe within the mile  to gie
warning here, while the pair turned into a
road  Cambus Road  and pinked by a footpath
to the auld Cambus doocot, that as a'
the world kens is just over the Borders.
There was in this parish a mass John  that I
sold be so far left to myself' as to gie him sic
a name, for he was a godly minister o' the
gospel, in days to come. But he diana set
his face against rinawa marriages in his youth,
for, licensed and placed though he was, he
liked a ploy wi' the lave. What sold hinder
him frae hurrying out to meet and marry the
lad and lass in the doocot, as gin they had

been twa does % They were yoked thither
as sure and fast as if they had been a teddy
and gentleman surrounded by a proud and
blithe wedding company, in a fine house,"'*"
and blessed by a man wha had maybe christened
her and catacheezed him. The driver
and the lady's-maid, wha had come wi' her
mistress, served for witnesses. There was a
wild set at Cambus Ha' at the time, but they
were aye hearty and hospitable, and were
gude to weddings, whom they wadna
thwart, sin' some o' theirs's had made rin-wa'
marriages, wi' sma' credit if the truth
were told. Ony way, the Cambus Ha' family
took in the fugitives and gave them quarters
for the night. They cam' over here the
next day to face the yer, wha cursed and
blackguard them ; but kennin' he could do
nae mair, though he lived to be a hunter,
suffered them to tak' the high road, while he
took the laugh.'

I dare say he thought better of it, and
was reconciled to his daughter in the end,'
said Iris demurely ; * we are not so clever on
our side of the Borders as you are on yours,
Jeannie.*

 The celebration of marriages in private houses was
then almost universal in Scotland.

So I hae heard say, mem. But the feck
o' the couples were mair crafty than to let it
be touch and go like that; whiles they would
come dressed up sae as their ain mothers
could hardly hae kenned them, or they would
travel here by opposite roads and at different
times. The bridegroom by hissed' or wi' a
friend' would ride by a coach, and the bride
would come, sometimes her lee-lane  eh! but
she maun hae had a stout heart and a handle
faith in her lad  it might be in the dead o'
night, by another.'

And how did they do it, Jeannie ? out of
church, without a regular clergyman always.
Did they never forget their prayer-books and
the rings?' pressed Marianne, with the keenest
curiosity.

Prayer-books !' cried Jeannie, her trim
figure, in its dark-stuff gown, white cap and
apron, swelling at the very word. * We
hanna had a service-book sin' auld Jenny
Gentes flung her style at the head o' the
minister for during to pray in the kirk gaff
printed paper. As for the ring, it is but the
bridegroom's giftie to the bride ; it can be
given at ony time. Na, we're no married wi'
rings.'

VOL. III. 49

 What are you married with then, in the
name of wonder 1 Did you ever hear anything
Hke it, Iris V cried Marianne, as at an
incredible but surpassingly ludicrous joke.
I dare say you don't vow to love, honour,
and obey your husbands, when you take
them for better, for worse ?'

'Na,' said Jeannie again, with a canny
sense of humour, ' we say as little as we
can, faith lads and lasses. Ye ken that least
said is surest mended. But there are war
husbands and wives than some you'll find in
Scotland, mem.'

I believe you said Marianne. ' I think
you are a remarkable people, with charming
institutions. If I ever marry, I'll come and
do it in Scotland. But in order that I may
know what I'm about, you must tell me what
really takes place, what you can find to say,
when it can be said, in so few words, either
in a church or a house, or a '* doocot," or
wherever you may find yourselves.'

Weel,' said Jeannie, slightly offended by
the tone and the laughter, and defending
herself with some dignity, * we cinna believe
that the Lord's confined to temples made wi'
hands. We think the earth is His and the

fulness thereof, and that His been are open to
what's doings over the whole world where
illa place is His temple. When all is right
and in order for a Scotch wadding', our minister
puts up a bit prayer out o's head, and there's
a sma' discourse o' his own composition,'
Jeannie explained with emphasis, as if she
set great store on the originality of the performance.
' The discourse may last for tenor
twenty minutes ; then there's another
prayer at the end. But the ceremony itself'
which does the business needna tak' three
minutes.'

Then what on earth does it consist of ?
It sounds exceedingly like the waving of a
magician's wand.'

Na, there's nae magic about it. It's just
the speer' and answering' o' twa reasonable
questions. The minister, or it might be
another man in a rinawa' marriage, asks the
lad afore ane or twa witnesses, will he tak'
this woman to be his lawful' wedded vvife, and
he says ' Yes," or he only boos if he's blate.
Syne the minister peers at the lass if she'll
tak' this man to be her lawful' wedded husband,
and she curtsies. Then the minister,
or the man akin for him, says, " Join hands,"

492

and the twa cleek their fingers thither.
Nest the minister or the man proclaims,
What God has joined lena man put
asunder ;" and that's a', unless the signing o'
the lines that certifies the faces

Do you mean to say you marry as an
anonymous man and woman ? Do you not
even say * M " or '' N" ?' inquired Marianne,
still full of interest and diversion.

What's your wull, mem ?' Jeannie questioned
in her turn, using an ancient phrase
which signified that she had not the most
distant idea what her interrogator meant.

 It is not my will, it is yours, to marry in
this odd mysterious fashion.'

I beg your pardon, mem, but there can be
nae mystery, or mockery either, about honest
folk,' protested Jeannie indignantly. She
felt strongly on such subjects as her nationality
and her kirk, and had a settled conviction
that she did well to be angry when they were
attacked.

Iris interposed as a peace-maker.

We only wished to know if you used no
Christian name, such as Jeannie or Donald,
in your marriage service.'

Donald is a Hieland name,' said Jeannie

a little disdainfully. ' We hae nae Donald
among our Lowland Scotch  ony way none
hereawa on the Borders. Na, we mention
no names ; at least we serena wont to bring
them into the ceremony, though some newfangled
ministers say faith names, and would
put it to me as Jean Maxwell, whether I
would take Tam Ridden or Allan Elliot for
my man f

Apparently Jeannie had not the guile to
use assumed names for her illustration, since
she coloured violently, and added that she
did not think the new fashion * sae mannerly
and modest ' as the old. ' But there's the
mistress's ring o' the bell. She'll say I've
been clavering' instead of minding my work,
and deed she'll no be far wrong,' cried Jeannie
in self-condemnation, as she caught up her
broom and dust-pan and made a hasty retreat
to the door, before Marianne could call after
her :

Say we kept you for the enlarging of our
ideas. It is quite true, and she may put it
in the bill.'

Marianne Dugdale was much struck and
greatly enlivened by what she had heard of
the runaway marriages, once of frequent

occurrence in the house, and of the simplicity
of the ceremony of marriage according to the
Presbyterian Church of Scotland. She ran
the two subjects together, and mixed them
up inextricably in her mind, while she retailed
the information she had got from the chambermaid,
with great gratification, for the edification
of the whole party. The topic was a
promising one, full of sentimental interest,
and yet fertile in jokes. Even the quietest
and shyest person there, not to say the oldest,
who was never behind with her joke, but as
being a little of an invalid at present resigned
herself to performing the part of a listener,
could not resist expressing an opinion, and
calling forth a laugh. But none was so full
of the stories as Marianne Dugdale. Even
after the girls had retired for the night she
kept reminding Iris, ' what throbbing temples
and beating hearts must have sought refuge
in these rooms ! I wonder if no bride ever
gave in at the last moment, fainted dead
away, or said she would go back as she came,
and try to be patient, and obey the law.'

A runaway marriage was not breaking
the law  the law of the land, T mean  that
went with the couple,' said Iris. * I think,

like sensible Jeannie, that in extreme cases
the remedy was open to trial. I have no
doubt that the law existed for these, and to
prevent weak women being hardly dealt with.
It strikes me that there was a certain manliness
and honesty in the law, though, of course,
it miorht be much abused.'

Of course,' echoed Marianne, without
having paid much attention to what her
companion had said. 'Don't you think it
would be dreadful, horrible, to marry without
love, Iris, even if the man were nota
high - handed sinner, such as the girl
described V

Iris had never heard Marianne speak so
seriously before, and even yet she was not
sure that a jest might not lurk beneath the
seriousness, till her cousin added in a tone of
suppressed excitement :

I would not do it for all the world ; I
know it would be a terrible danger for me.
It is another thing with you. I believe you
would be good, and do your best under any
circumstances. But I, Iris ; did it never
strike you that there was something of 
granny in me V Marianne broke off and
asked in a low tone with a slight shudder,

but looking Iris full in the face all the time,
as if to surprise her answer.

No, no, nothing at all,' said Iris, startled
and shocked, ' except that it goes without
saying we are both of her blood, and in some
physical points  features, tones of voice,
tricks of gesture, we may bear a resemblance
to her, as doubtless we do to each other
added Iris, seeking to widen the chain of relationship
to which she was referring.

Ah, I know better,' said Marianne,
drawing a long breath. * I am hot-blooded,
impulsive, headstrong, as she has been. I,
too, could be brought to stand at bay, and to
break through every obstacle in the path of
my will. I know I am a weaker woman
than she is, but sometimes I think it is not
only because hers is the stronger nature, but
because I am really like granny, that she
can turn and twist and make a tool of me.
I see perfectly well what she is about all the
time, how she is touching every sensitive
spot in my composition, stirring me up and
egging me on to be vain, heartless, and
treacherous. But I cannot resist her  I defy
myself to do it. It is the same as bringing
fire to tinder. I kindle up in a blaze in a

moment, and become a puppet to be played
off according to her pleasure. It is easy to
guess what you will say, that I can strive,
and watch, and pray to hold my own, but
I am afraid I cannot. There is some sympathy
between us. No, don't let us speak
of it any longer, Iris, for even to allude
to it in a whisper seems to make it a greater
reality, and to render me more in her
power.'

This impatient and, as it seemed, cowardly
turning of Marianne's back on a cause for
apprehension, with the avoidance of all
present reflection and future resolution on
the point, was a new practice to Iris Compton.
She had faced each foe that stood in her
path, whether or not she had been worsted
in the contest.

But there was no room at this date for
rational remonstrance with Marianne Dug-dale.
The moment her humour changed,
which it was apt to do in the twinkling of an
eye, she would put her small hands over her
shell-like ears and call out pettishly she was
not to be preached to, though she had just
challenged and almost solicited the sermon.
She would prefer to advance partially blindfolded

to threatened destruction, rather than
endure the sharp pain, acute self-reproach,
and mental trouble of opening her eyes,
counting the cost, and making a determined
stand and an abiding choice as to what was
to be her conduct and fate. At the same
time, poor little square-shouldered Marianne
was far less unstable by nature than from
defective training and untoward circumstances.


A Rainy DAY IX PERILOUS QUARTERS.

The .next mornings rose with such a raw,
white Scotch mist or drizzling rain as to
catch everybody in the throat worse than
her cold had caught Lady Fermor, and to
forbid preliminary strolls and seats on the
Border moors. The two young men tried
them on several occasions, only to return
thoroughly soaked, to be sent to the lower
regions, where, as Marianne Dugdale declared,
the pedestrians were turned before a
slow fire : a process which afforded no comfort
to the imprisoned ladies in the rooms above.
Even in fine weather these moors are bleak
in August, for the bloom of the broom is
past, and the first purple of the heather is
growing brown, before the burst of September
red ling which lends the final glow to
the wilderness. It was hard to be assailed

by the Scotch weather-fiend before the party
had done more than set foot in Scotland.

Marianne Dugdale was crusty when she
came down to breakfast in the inn parlour,
where Lady Fermor sent Soames to pour out
tea and play propriety at the table where the
young people gathered.

 Nobody shall say that I have not looked
after you. After what IVe seen and known,
I trust nobody the old lady told her nieces
insultingly.

'Very right, granny. We've all heard
evil-doers are evil-readers retorted Marianne
recklessly, while Iris crimsoned and
hurried out of hearing.

Marianne's temper was not improved by a
somewhat agitated announcement from King
Lud that he must leave them and start by
the night train. He had not heard from the
Admiralty, but there were letters from the
Rectory, where he ought to have been weeks
before. The mother had been ill ; and even
without that obligation his last days on shore
were due to those at home. They were too
kind to complain, but he should not have
failed them.

No, of course not. Good little boys could

not play truant for any length of time, Marianne
told him scornfully, while she crumbled
down the bit of oat-cake with which she had
provided herself, but could not eat, and eyed
superciliously the dish of newly caught trout.
But how anyone could leave his friends in
the lurch she could not understand, she went
on tartly. It would have been bad enough
to have deserted them before they had
reached their destination, but it was mean
to go in such weather.

He brightened up a little, and said earnestly
: ' You must be aware I have no
choice, Miss Dugdale/ And then the big,
sandy-haired, full-faced lieutenant, the diver
among sharks and the defier of polar bears,
positively blushed like a girl, when he went
on : ' But I may comfort myself  may I
not ?  with the selfish hope that I shall be
missed  a little V

Not unless by Iris or Lady Fermor or
Sir William,' Marianne assured him coolly.
I never flatter a man's vanity. We can
really get on very well without you  can we
not, Sir William V

If you like to put it so, Miss Dugdale/
said Sir William a little awkwardly, and so

deliberately that Marianne could have shaken
him, to have roused the man into greater
alacrity. On second thoughts she decided
that it would be a fine arrangement to force
him to be on his mettle as her willing, engrossed
servant for the day.

Ludovic Acton had deferred his departure
till he should have to encounter the chill and
darkness of midnight in such weather, in
order  infatuated fellow  that he might have
ten or twelve hours more to sun and scorch
himself in the flame that was consuming him.
Marianne proposed to repay him by rendering
these hours one prolonged period of
bitterness, till it was just possible the cruel
cauterization of his wound might be complete
and prove effectual, and the last boon be
granted to him of departing limp and spiritless,
but cured, if he were capable of cure, of
a misplaced attachment to an unfeeling, ungrateful
girl.

The prospect from the windows was not
charming after the varied exercise and enjoyment
of the past week. The bright red
roses were shedding their petals, together
with showers of tears, and were acquiring a
cold purplish tinge in the process. The

honeysuckle dangled and dripped depressingly.
Nothing was to be seen beyond a
few yards, except a white seething sea of
vapour, which seemed to rise in huge puffs of
steam as well as to fall down in rain. It
had begun by swallowing up respectively
every morsel of Skiddaw and Safely, Criffell
and the Lead Hills. Nothing remained save
the mist itself

It was a blank, disconsolate day for belated
travellers at a country inn, a day to order a
smoky fire to be lit, draw the scanty curtains,
and aim at the severe discharge of duty, and
the acquisition of a rampant sense of self-righteousness,
by writing off a dozen letters
long due; to collapse into calling for refreshments,
yawning and dawdling and telling idle
stories ; to sour and ferment into quarrelling
with might and main, and getting a little
heat and vigour into life in that way.

Marianne tried none of these plans, for
she did not deign to quarrel with King Lud ;
it was not her cue to dispute with Sir William,
except in spurts of uncontrollable exasperation
; she had a notion Iris would not
wrangle with her, and Lady Fermor was not
visible all the morning.

Marianne lugged Sir William into the
passage to play battledore and shuttlecock
by means of ancient implements for the
game, which she had discovered in some
corner, where they might have been kept
in other years when the pastime was in
the height of popular favour, and taken out
on special occasions to divert the sorrows or
fears of a childish bride, or to allay the
restlessness of an excited bridegroom. But
Marianne found that Sir William had to be
taught, and though he insisted that he was
good for rackets, he made no progress in
catching and returning the mounted bunch
of feathers. She sat down to backgammon
with him, and found, to her disgust, that he
could not only beat her to sticks, but did it
without ceremony, with a wooden-headed
adherence to the rules of the game, and a
quiet grin of masculine superiority, which
were beyond bearing. She rummaged out of
her trunk silks and worsted, and set him to
wind them for her, as Lady Thwaite had
once done before. But either Sir William
was now a more adroit master of the situation,
or Marianne was not such an adept as Sir
William's former employer in taking amusement

out of her neighbour's blunders. Marianne
asked her victim to read a guide-book
aloud while she worked ; but he read, according
to his custom, in a stentorian voice, so
that everybody in the room had the benefit
of the performance. It ceased to be private,
as she had intended, and the publicity did
not suit her, since she had a little weakness
for monopolizing men's notice  a weakness
which, with regard to Sir William Thwaite's
attentions this day, had become an urgent
necessity to her. In the end, between worry
and the noise her squire made in obeying her
last behest, her head began to ache violently.
Then it became evident that poor Marianne
was in a state of nervous weariness and
crossness, which, to her extreme mortification,
caused her to be viewed as an object of pity,
rather than of reprehension.

There was more sorrow than anoer in King:
Lud's kind eyes, and the sorrow smote Marianne
Dugdale, so that she was barely able
to persist in the line of behaviour she had
adopted towards him and other people.
She was extremely offended by Iris's offer
of eau-de-cologne for her headache, the more
so, perhaps, that Iris had been conversing

VOL. III. 50

for the last three-quarters of an hour, in the
most natural, unaffected manner certainly,
but still on confidential terms, with Ludovic
Acton, on scraps of Rectory news and on his
probable destination when he should get a
ship. Iris had no right to such information
as Marianne had not cared to seek. It was
setting her at nought for King Lud to
vouchsafe to an old friend  in Marianne's
very hearing, too  the details she had declined
to listen to. To sum up the sufferings of
Marianne's dog-in-the-manger mood, she
began to grow frightened at Sir William,
v/hom she had only looked upon as a temporary
servant to suit her purpose. She had
raised up a spirit with which she could not
cope, and that she did not understand. His
looks and tones had changed to rueful, unbounded
forbearance and repressed tenderness,
as she had known them change on the
morning at the Academy. Marianne could
not comprehend it, and her ignorance abashed
her for the moment in her perversity. Iris
believed that his heart was melting and
thrilling because he was thinking of his dead
wife, poor, wild Honor, who had paid by her
early, untimely death for all wherein she

had offended him ; whom he had not made
happy, save during the first few weeks of their
short wedlock ; to whom, in the person of
this capricious, captious, yet withal generous
and warm-hearted girl, he might be called on
in some sort to atone for his errors. What
was he, or who cared for him, that he should
decline to give up all that was left to him, in
order that he misht make the amends ?

And all the time Iris was as sure as she
could be of the result of any human act, that
if Sir William Thwaite were led on and
suffered, by the contrivance of Lady Fermor
and the folly of Marianne Dugdale, to accomplish
the reparation which had more than
once flashed across his mind, it would not
only be a repetition of his former grievous
blunder, it would be the consummation of
the misfortunes of his chequered life.

Luncheon was welcome by way of variety,
and still more dinner, with Lady Fermor
declaring herself recruited in spite of the
weather. She made no sign, if she observed
the very visible dismemberment of the party,
the discomposure of the individuals of whom
it was composed, the heaviness, depression,
and peevishness, as the effect of the rain, in

502

anticipation of the first break-up of the group
of friendly associates by the departure of
King Lud with the night train. Whether
Lady Fermor were cognizant of the tokens
or not, they did not augur a cheerful evening.

Appearances brightened, however, with
coffee. Lady Fermor was at her best, chatty,
with a rasping good-humour, inclined to
encourage the young people in any form of
diversion, though she still declared herself
unfit for her usual game of cards.

 But you boys and girls may set a-going
games for yourselves. What games we had
long ago, when we were not too wise or grand
or goody-goody to play games ! Old-fashioned,
homely riddles and forfeits, when I was a
very small child, charades, tableaux, not to
speak of private theatricals for our own
benefit, without any shoddy pretence of helping
charities or entertaining paupers. Why,
Marianne, are you so down in the mouth with
one day's rain that you cannot even get up a
sham penny reading V

There had been a reaction from Marianne's
exhaustion before this speech, a return to the
restless excitement of the morning, deepened,
as in the case of all relapses. But it was

Lady Fermor's goad which sent the girl
beyond all bounds of discretion and delicacy.

'Thank you, granny, for the suggestion,
which I'll take leave to improve upon,' cried
Marianne, with flaming cheeks and flashing-eyes.
* Ladies and gentlemen, we shall act
one of the runaway marriages, for which this
place was once famous. It will be a play ina
single scene, and the words are so few that
nobody need pretend not to be equal to
learning his or her part.'

Bravo !' exclaimed Lady Fermor, with
the baleful fires in her sunken eyes leaping
up for an instant ; ' if you are able to carry
out the idea. But who will bell the cat ?
Who will assume the principal parts, and play
bride and bridegroom T

" I, said the sparrow," ' quoted Marianne,
with an assumption of sparrow-like pertness,
I will play the bride, and I choose Sir
William for my bridegroom.'

It was a bold speech, and seemed to take
the person most concerned by storm.

How am I to thank you for your condescension,
Miss Dugdale V he said, with an
agitation and seriousness which were startling,
and caused even Marianne to look put

out and to pause for a moment in her recklessness.


Oh, by acting as well as you can,' she said
hastily. *I ask nothing further. I can coach
you ; I can coach everybody. I heard all
about it from the maid. Somebody has to
ask the bride and bridegroom if " Barks is
willing' ?" and then we have only to say *' yes "
or " boo," which seems to be letting us off by
an easier method than speaking  even in a
monosyllable. But what can "boo "mean?
I understand, and am able to say * bo" to a
goose '  with a fleeting, impatient glance at
King Lud, sitting back in a corner, with a
sudden lividness of cheek and lip, yet with
the self-control of a gentleman and an officer.
But I confess 'boo " beats me.'

It means " nod," Marianne. Couldn't you
guess it by the corresponding word ** curt-she's?'
said Iris, speaking with an eflbrt, as
if she were forcing herself to join in the conversation.
* But, if I were you, I would not
bow to such a bad jest. I think you might
find a better game.'

Oh, we are too demure to go through
with a marriage even in a play said Lady
Fermor with suppressed rage, because her

opinion was disregarded. * Or is it sour
grapes, because the chief roles are appropriated
V

'And the smallest and silliest of us can
nod easily enough,' maintained Marianne, so
that Iris was silenced.

Sir William glanced at her with a quick,
disturbed inquiry ; but he could not read her
face or her heart.

Acton '  Lady Fermor turned ruthlessly
to the lieutenant  ' you are glum enough to
play the owl or the parson ; you'll dig the
grave  no, I did not mean that  you'll
perform the ceremony.'

Thanks, Lady Fermor '  he choked down
his feelings  ' but I am not qualified to take
my father's place.'

I'll teach you,' insisted Marianne flippantly
; * you have only to utter three simple
sentences. You ask whether the man will
take the woman and the woman the man for
husband and wife ; you bid them join hands,
and then declare no power in heaven or on
earth is ever to part them. Surely you can
remember that.'

Don't spoil sport, Acton,' enjoined Lady
Fermor in her deep gutturals. ' We have no

substitute, unless we call in the innkeeper 
honest man ! as they say in his country  and
he may not be able to see a joke. You know
you have to punch a hole in a Scotchman's
head before you can get a joke into it. Never
shirk what you've got to do, however much
against the grain. I thought that was part
of a sailor's creed.'

So it is,' said the badgered man, raising
his head and pulling himself together. * I'll
do what you want. Don't fear that I shall
spoil sport, Miss Dugdale  LadyFermor.'

Are you all mad V implored Iris ; but
she spoke in a low tone, and nobody, unless
Sir William, heard her.

 Be off, Marianne,' urged Lady Fermor,
entering into the spirit of the unseemly frolic,
as she had entered into many another of the
same description. * It won't be hard for you
to dress in character, since there are no white
silks or satins, or veils or orange-blossoms,
required here. Your traveling-dress will
do, and Thwaite need not change his coat.
Your cousin Iris will not object to bring you
in, and stay as a spectator, unless she holds
that the bride's shoes are hers by prior right
is she so many months the senior or the

junior of the two ? I forget which  and
ought not to be filled by other feet. I'll
arrange where the men shall stand.'

Marianne went out of the room, with Iris
following her sure enough ; but Iris did not
overtake her cousin as she ran upstairs before
the girl had passed Jeannie, the chambermaid
smilingly making room for her. The
young lady had a roguish whisper for her
humble ally.

Jeannie, I'm comines down aoain to be
married. The house has not lost its spell.'

Eh ! Megsty me !' cried Jeannie, instinctively
setting down the jug of hot water she
was carrying for some gentleman's toddy,
that she might not scald herself or any other
person in the height of her excitement. But
Miss Dugdale had already gone into her
room, followed by the other young lady,
looking ' that taken up ' that she did not
notice Jeannie.

In reality Iris was moved to the depths of
her soul. The moment she was alone with
her cousin Iris came out in a new character
to Marianne. Iris went up to the little
actress and poured forth, for her benefit, such
a torrent of passionate upbraiding as the

gentlest lips will utter when the heart is
stirred with poignant sympathy, and the
honourable spirit outraged by what is unfair
and ungenerous, when the meekest man or
woman does well to be angry, and indignation
is only the expression of truth.

How could you, Marianne Dugdale  show
could you have the heart ? You may not
care for him a bit ; but you see how he cares
for you, and if you had any pity, any womanly
feeling, you would spare him. It is only
acting, of course, and there might be no great
harm in that ; but it is brutal  yes, brutal, to
get up such a farce, knowing what he is suffering.
I cannot tell whether you are making
a fool of Sir William also ; but you have no
right to do that either,' said Iris, holding up
her head, and flushing rosy red. ' He is a
man who, though he is not much older than
ourselves, has had great troubles and sorrows.
The knowledge of that alone should keep the
most thoughtless girl from harming him 
perhaps in a way she cannot guess, and yet
she may live to rue it. You are able to judge
for yourself that, like many a greater man, he
is simple and trustful in some things  where
women are concerned, for instance  in spite

of having had his eyes opened roughly
already. That, too, should be his shield
against hardened raillery and coquetry. You
are free and right to choose for yourself, and
if you and Sir William Thwaite choose each
other nobody need object ; all your friends
must rejoice and wish you well. But to go
trifling with Ludovic Acton, and torturing
and shaming him at the last moment by this
barbarous play, no good will come of it. I
could never have believed it of you, Marianne.'


Iris ended, exhausted by her vehement
defence of her friends and protest against
wrong.

Marianne stared with big brown eyes, tried
to laugh, turned away her head to hide her
changing colour and drooping eyelids, and
cried out ironically :

Well, this is a tirade from a quiet-going
young lady !' At last she sat down, crossed
her arms, and faced her flushed, overcome
accuser. ' So I don't care a straw for King
Lud, and I have a sneaking kindness for
Sir William, or rather for his place and title,
I dare say. I am going to sell myself for a
little rank and wealth, as thousands of girls

have done before me. That is the way of it
is it ? Very creditable to me, and you
ought to know me by this time. Never
mind. Will you tell me just one thing, Iris ?
What business has Mr. Acton to go away
in such detestable weather, as if to face the
elements  in the rhetorical phrase  at their
very dialect is a great deal better than a
comfortable enough inn with our company 1
He has no summons from the Admiralty,
compelling him to start on the instant ; he
has to get up a story of his mother's being ill
and wanting him, and it can't refuse it's
manse's lightest whim, pretty dear T

Oh, Marianne ! how can you be so horribly
unreasonable and unkind !' Iris said
again with fresh wonder and wrath. * It is
not why should Ludovic go, but why should
he have stayed so long, in consideration of the
little he has oot for all he has ofiven ? He is
a good son and brother, however little you
may be capable of valuing such a character ;
and Mrs. Acton is a good mother, who
would not grudge her boy his happiness, or
make an outcry about her health for the purpose
of recalling him. You cannot imagine
how much he is thought of, how he is waited

and wearied for at the Rectory. And he is
going to sea, where there are special dangers
and deaths even for those who do not take
their Eves in their hands and risk them, at
every opportunity, for their fellows, as our
King Lud has risked his. He may never
come back. I don't know that he cares at
this moment, which is your doing. Before he
knew you he had a happy and honourable
life before him, and he loves his people,
which you think to be rather a flaw in his
character. To-day may be the last time we
shall see him in this world  dear old Minor
Lud ! whom I have liked and respected, boy
and man. How I should mourn for him !
But how will you look, and what will you
say, if you are told next winter or next
summer that his ship has gone down to the
bottom of the sea, like the Captain and the
Eur y dice and the Atlanta, and he has gone
down to the depths with it, or that he has
died far from home in some foreign hospital
V

However she might look then, there could
be no question as to how she looked now ;
she looked white as a sheet and trembled
like an aspen, and what she said was the

strange outbreak : ' Yet he will give his
mother the last word, the last look, which
ought to be mine.'

Then she put up her little hand to her
face, and

Like summer tempest burst the tears

with which the girl had been battling since
morning. The storm was as short-live d as it
was violent, and even while Iris looked on
in dismay at the effect of her words, the big
drops ceased to rattle down, the chest left
off' heaving with sobs, while Marianne began
to accuse herself piteously, passionately,
laughingly, for extremes are always meeting.
I am a wretch of a girl, and he's the dearest,
best of fellows, as gallant a man as ever
stepped, as true as steel, as tender as only
the best men can be. And what did you
take me for, that you could think I preferred
Sir William Thwaite, who has risen in the
world, and been wild, and is reformed, and
is well enough in his way % But what drowning
women did he save \ What shipwrecked
crew did he rescue ? What torpedoes did he
help to launch at the peril of his precious
life  like  like Jove scattering thunderbolts
r

Iris looked up in sheer bewilderment at
this extravagant laudation. She was tempted
to put in the reservation : * Where had he
the opportunity, though he, too, fought and
bled for his country ? And are there not
spiritual conflicts and conquests harder and
nobler by far than any physical warfare and
victory ?' But she had not the chance, for
it was Marianne's turn to speak, and she was
making abundant use of the privilege.

There is one good deed I have done
him, I have saved him from the consequences
of an unworthy choice,' she said, her voice,
which had sounded shrilly eager and exultant
an instant before, suddenly sinking in
despair.

 No, Marianne. He does not think so ;
he never will. I have known him since we
were children. I know how hard it is to
offend Ludovic Acton ; how lenient he is to
offenders ; how sure to forgive,' represented
Iris earnestly.

Yes, he will think he has made a fortunate
escape after to-days persisted Marianne
dolefully. ' No man could bear what he has
had to bear and forget it.'

But you mean to make it up with him

before lie goes ? You won't go on now with
this stupid, coarse play, surely, surely, Marianne
?' besought Iris.

Marianne shook her head in wilful determination
to suffer the worst penalty she had
brought upon herself, and with a perverse
doggedness which was characteristic of the
girl : * I cannot ; it is too late. It would
make no difference now. Besides, we are
not on terms to admit of an explanation, and
I dare say he will be thankful in years to come
that there never has been the ghost of an
engagement, or even of a mutual understanding
between us,' she said sadly. * I would
not let him speak, or grant him the least
satisfaction. I did not wish to bring the
game to an end by allowing him to commit
himself, and by being forced to commit myself
either way. It was a game in the beginning,
though it has ended in earnest. Oh
dear ! I liked it so much while it lasted  to
feel my power, and know I could make everything
bright or dark to him by a word, a
look. It was dreadfully inconsiderate and
selfish to him, no doubt, and I shall be punished
as I deserve.'

Iris was altogether taken aback, though

she had not been without her suspicions, but
she knew Marianne Dudgale too well to
protest :

How could you have been so silly, so
perverse, as to plague and grieve and do all
you could to alienate the man you really
cared for all the time ? How could you seek
to attract another man, and seem as if you, in
your turn, were attracted by him, when,
during your whole acquaintance, you were
perfectly indifferent  in that way  to his
merits and to all that was pathetic in his
history T

Where would have been the use in saying
so, when Iris believed it had been, and might
still be, quite possible that Marianne Dugdale,
with the secret, violent fancy she had grown
to entertain for the young fellow she had
been domineering over and tantalizing, would
consent, in a fit of pique and spleen, or mere
sudden collapse and surrender to Lady
Fermor's evil influence, to marry the other
man, for whom she had no fancy, and who
had little better to offer her than a second-hand,
remorseful pity?

What Iris did say was the evident truth,
that Marianne would punish at least one

VOL. III. 51

other person as well as herself, the innocent
with the guilty. And Iris pled :

Won't you say, or let me say, that you
have thought better of it, and cannot carry
out this absurd, unbecoming mimicry of a
marriage ? That will be some compensation
to Ludovic before he goes, and he may understand
 may suspect.'

No, no,' cried Marianne, starting up in a
fresh access of wilfulness and waywardness,
I am not going to crave mercy from any
man, or seek to call him back. Besides, I
am certain that granny would begin to jeer
and taunt me till I became possessed, and
then my last error would be worse than my
first. Let us act the marriage and have
done with the whole thing. I believe he has
renounced me already in his heart ; let him
have the comfort  the sop to his pride, poor
fellow  of doing it in so many words. The
circumstance that he can speak them before
us all is a testimony which he may hug to the
end of his days, because it will prove how
fully he recovered from his delusion in time.
After I have treated him as I have done, and
gone so far, I owe him his revenge, and do
you think I'll stint him in it V

Marianne, in perfect sincerity, doubled in
the argument, and twisted it round to rake
herself and everybody miserable in an ingenious
fashion of her own, which is yet not
altogether uncommon.

In any imminent danger in which Iris had
ever seen a fellow-creature, her immediate
strong instinct had always been to save the
threatened victim  to save at Iris's expense,
if need were  as when the girl controlled her
natural recoil and held close the severed
artery in her servant's wrist, as when she
walked back to Whitehills with Lady Thwaite,
dressed in a groom's clothes, and faced a man
whom she had reason to know she had deeply
offended, and whom all her friends and neighbours
were then denouncing as a drunken
ruffian. The instinct did not fail to assert
itself at this juncture.

Let me act the bride,' she said with quiet
determination. ' It will be all the same who
takes the part in a piece of child's play that
neither Sir William nor I need mind, and it
will save you and Ludovic Acton from a
last misunderstanding, which, though it is
only about a silly joke, may separate you for
life.'

512

Marianne hesitated, with changing colour
and parted Hps. Her susceptible pride and
fiery temper had been up in arms a moment
before. She had forbidden a compromise,
yet she might snatch at a reprieve. Her
decision would be very much a matter of
chance, as were many of the resolutions she
formed in her honest but unregulated mind 
even when they were on subjects of vital
importance to her  taken on the spur of the
moment, at haphazard, and under the influence
of trifles light as air.

In the meantime Iris, awaiting Marianne's
answer, frightened to look at her for fear of
influencing her, looking on the floor instead,
was calling King Lud her brother in her
heart, and remembering all that his family
had done for her  Iris Compton. She was
thinking of Marianne's affectionate championship
soon after they had become acquainted,
and what a different world it had been to a
lonely girl when she had found a bright,
frank, young companion, generous and lovable
even in her transparent follies, constantly by
her side. Iris was thinking of Sir William
and the debt he had already paid to Lady
Fermor, and the other debt he had paid to

Honor. Iris's mind was even recurring to
old stones and old wrongs in which her
ancestor had been the wrong-doer and
Marianne Dugdale's the sufferer of the
wrong.

What an excellent idea !' cried Marianne
suddenly. ' You can play the bride, as you
say, as well as I. They will not suppose that
I have drawn back  only that we have agreed
to change places. Indeed, as our hats and
travelling-dresses are alike, and the light is
none of the best, if we had not been so
different in height, they might not have
known the one from the other,' she ended
with a little uncertain laugh, beginning to
recover her courage and spirits. ' I wonder
if he will give a great start and gape, forget
all I told him, and not be able to proceed with
the ceremony ? Won't he look dreadfully
foolish ? But I shall not have vexed him 
the very last thing. Iris, it was taking a
despicable advantage of me to work upon my
feelings and pretend he would not come back
safe and sound  a great, strong, fearless
fellow like King Lud, twice as big as our
boys at home, with a face like a full moon.
Yes, indeed, it is true ; but I hate small faces

in men ; I think they cannot be too big every
way. He has so often gone away, and always
returned Hke a bad halfpenny. I wonder
how and when we shall meet next melting
into tenderness, but rushing off at a tangent
the next moment. * He can never be so base
as to forget ' the girl he left behind him."
Remember, I shall be fit to kill you if he
should jilt me, after what you have made me
tell you. In the meantime I'll play that
tune, in my own honour, every day that I
can reach a piano, till he come back. Must
he stay away months ? A whole year or
more ? The man should not have made me
so accustomed to his tiresome ways. How
will the time pass without them ? Shall I
grow sick with hope deferred *? And do all
the girls in my position complain of the
cruelty of the Queen and the Lord High
Admiral? Who would have said I should
be a spoon ? How our boys would laugh,
and even Cathie and Cattle would giggle.
But they shan't know a syllable till he is a
captain, and able to propose for me to granny
or papa in due form. I suppose that will not
be till he has made a pot of money, poor
fellow, to keep me with ; but, if the ruling

powers continue long obdurate, we'll know
what to do ; we'll run straight away to Scotland.
Then we'll have to go into sea-side
lodgings, and be careful of our coals, and
never allow ourselves an extra pair of boots.
Will you still acknowledge us, Iris ? You
ought to, for you have been at the bottom of
the mischief  even though granny has
nothing more to say to us. By the way, we
must not keep her waiting any longer. She
will not stand the further delay of this
marriage.'

Iris was hardly listening now as they proceeded
to put on their travelling jackets and
hats of brown tweed, with which they had
provided themselves in preparation for what
they had been pleased to consider the Arctic
climate of Scotland.

What a dress for a bride !' cried Marianne,
in lively disgust.

But it is a runaway bride,' said Iris.

 Yes, but depend upon it if she ran away
of her own accord, she had some respect for
her own feelings and those of her bridegroom,
and put a bridal touch somewhere to her
dress. Besides, my dear child, there must
be something to mark the difference between

US  in our parts. Here, take this bunch of
wet roses  I dare say they are the descendants
of bridal roses  which Jeannie brought
me from the kailyard. Exposes are later in
the north than in the south ; we are not
travelled girls, so we may speak of Scotland
and England  all we know  as north and
south. Fasten the flowers in your jacket.'

Iris did as she was bidden to please Marianne,
and get the sooner done with the
foolish play. The couple hurried downstairs
arm-in-arm, and entered the room so abruptly
that it was not difficult to picture an angry
father at their back.

Somebody had drawn a table before the
corner where Ludovic sat, looking grim.
Sir William was standing beside it with a
curious mixture of affront  as if doing something
preposterous  and wistful yearning
and pain in his face.

Lady Fermor sat still in the chair which
she had before occupied, but she must have
rung for Soames in order to enable her maid
to enjoy the little entertainment, for the long
lank functionary was ranged behind her
mistress's chair.
The room was dark from the state of the

weather and the old-fashioned little windows ;
besides, the company were not quick enough
to take up at once the cue of the roses with
which Marianne had obligingly supplied
them. Iris had volunteered to act her part,
and was doings what she needed to do with a
growing reluctance which became so nearly
insupportable that she could not stop to
think what she was about, but must hasten
through it, behaving: like a creature in a
dream.

Marianne took the initiative, as she was
always disposed to do. She walked straight
up to Sir William. There she paused for a
second. In truth, she was not at all clear
how the office of giving away a runaway
bride was performed in the strange Scotch
marriage. She was afraid Jeannie had forgotten
something. Marianne had to use her
own judgment ; she wisely confined herself
to dumb show. She simply dropped Iris's
arm and retreated, leaving her cousin standing
by Sir William.

King Lud leant forward confounded, yet
eager as at an unlooked-for release from a
piece of sport which had galled him like a
wanton insult, a real irreparable injury.

Lady Fermor put up her hand to her eyes,
as if to clear her sight, and let it fall again,
sitting upright, with her eyes glittering, and
nodding her head, as if she were the person
called upon to bow her consent.

Sir William flushed scarlet, and looked,
like a man driven wild, from one to the
other. He could read nothing in Iris's little
face ; it was blank, like that of one forcing
herself to stifle every warring inclination and
go on with an ordeal.

Proceed with the marriage, Mr. Acton ;
there is the bride,' muttered Marianne exofficio,
with a little quiver, partly of laughter,
partly of another feeling, in her voice.

Ludovic Acton started up to obey his
mistress's behest, while life was once more
opening out before him with hope and love
and joy among its possibilities. Why had
he been such a fool ? How could he have
been so taken in, to torture himself as he
had done *? This acting a marriage was
nothing, the merest jest, when Marianne
Dugdale was not to play the bride to another
bridegroom than himself. It was no worse
than fifty charades and tableaux vivant in
which he had taken part. If it had been so,

Iris Compton, good little Iris, whom he
knew so well and could depend on entirely,
would not have been in it. He stood behind
the table facing Sir William and Iris, and
tried to respond to Marianne's appeal, and
to do credit to what she had told him when
he had utterly mistaken her intention. He
looked imploringly at her for inspiration,
instead of at the pair before him. He sought
to recall the sentences she had repeated to
him. If he made a verbal mistake it would
be forgiven in an actor who had only once
heard his part.

Will you take this woman for your wife?

Marianne, who had drawn nearer the
couple, turned prompter again  this time on
behalf of Sir William  with the pantomime
of an emphatic nod ; but he took them all by
surprise, speaking out distinctly and so loudly
as to sound roughly, * I will.'

Will you take this man for your husband?

 Boo, or "curtsies," Iris,' whispered Marianne
mischievously. Iris smiled slightly, as
at a dimly apprehended, far away bit of fun,
and inclined her head.

The impromptu parson looked despairingly
at Marianne, who in answering despair

clasped her hands, shaking her head reproachfully
at the same time.

Join hands,' cried Ludovic.

Sir William put out his hand and grasped
Iris's in so tight a clasp that it half roused
her. She made a little motion to draw her
crushed fingers away. He was the better
actor of the two certainly, but he overacted
his part. Iris was so far recalled to herself
that she became aware of a stir at the room
door. Glancing in that direction she saw, to
her vague distress, it had been left open and
pushed slightly ajar, and that there was quite
a group of people on the threshold, the most
of them seeking to see without being seen.
Jeannie, the chambermaid, formed one bashful
spectatress ; another gazer was the landlord,
a thick-set, shock-headed man, who still
wore mine host's conventional red waistcoat.
But he was not skulking, whatever his companions
might be; he held a candlestick with
a lit candle in his hand, for the rainy gloaming
was fast deepening into mirk. He
looked excited, as if he wanted to come in
and either interfere with the performance or
join in it.

Apparently Lady Fermor had also detected

the intruders, for she called out, ' There, that
will do !' and sure enough the group melted
and vanished, pulling the door close behind
them. But her ladyship, who was in high
glee, might not so much intend to give a
reprimand as to say the scene had been
sufficiently represented ; for she added immediately
afterwards, addressing her own party,
'We need not mind sionino the register or
the bride's '' lines." Upon my word, it has
been a very pretty wedding. Let me congratulate
you, Thwaite and Iris that is my
part of the performance, and a very pleasant
part it is, I can tell you. You have given
us a good notion of what a runaway marriage
is like. I suppose, Iris, you thought, after
all, you were the fittest match for the bridegroom.'


The hands so lately joined had already
dropped asunder. Sir William remained
standing alone by the table, as if he were
trying to reason with himself, to get rid of a
momentary hallucination, to cast off a disordering,
maddening impression. He did
not go near Lady Fermor. He hardly
suffered himself to throw a look after Iris as
she rejoined Marianne.

How stupid you were, Mr. Acton Marianne
accused King Lud.  It was I, not you
who carried them. I must ask Jeannie if
that is correct, and if a woman can marry a
couple in this improper little Scotland.'

Iris left the room with Marianne to put off
their out-of-doors habiliments. As the girls
did so, the roses fell unheeded from Iris's
jacket on the floor, and would have lain thereto
be trampled under foot if Sir William had
not stepped forward, stooped, and picked
them up.

When the cousins came back, the subject
of the acted marriage was dropped as if by
common consent. The talk had turned upon
the lieutenant's departure, the hour for which
was drawing near. He had engaged a trap
from the innkeeper to take him through the
rain and darkness to the nearest station, a
few miles off. He was far brighter and more
animated than he had been all the day, while
Marianne Dugdale, on the contrary, became
somewhat silent, only emitting an occasional
little jet of contradiction and sauciness. He
announced confidently that he expected to
see them all again before he sailed, and
nobody deprived him of the hope, and forbade

him the privilege. If he wrung Marianne's
hand in saying good-bye, nobody could see
and censure the deed, since she did not
wrench her fingers away; for that matter
she had not flouted him for the last five
minutes, but if she cried herself to sleep and
bemoaned her former perversity and cruelty,
it was in the silence and solitude of her
room.

Iris thought it was charity to everybody
to adopt Lady Fermor's early hours this
night. A sudden sobriety which was almost
oppressive, the natural result of contending
and of Kino Lud's ofoinof, had
fallen upon the young people. As for herself,
she desired nothing better than to be able to
recall undisturbed the whole events of the
day, including the grotesque farce in which
she had been involved. When she had
thought it all over, she would dismiss it from
her mind at once and for ever.

The dismissal was not quite so easy as Iris
had anticipated. She felt haunted by the
foolish play ; she tossed on her bed sleepless
and feverish. When she did drop asleep,
she dreamt she had married Sir William
Thwaite in earnest without intending it ; and

what was worse, she had not asked his leave,
and he had not spoken one word or given a
single glance, in renewal of his passionate
love-making and proposal to her in the hay-field
at "Whitehills four years before. Nay,
he had seemed at every crisis to turn  with
whatever mixed motives  to Marianne Dug-dale.


At last Iris slept soundly ; but even then
she was disturbed by the business of the inn,
or by the figments of her own imagination.
She thought she heard some one calling her
name loudly and urgently, and when she
started up in bed and listened and failed to
distinguish a voice speaking to her, she
seemed to hear the noise of wheels driving
rapidly from the door.

THE BEAST RISES UP A PRINCE.

Iris slept late after a troubled night, and
when she awoke and looked at her watch she
could take nothing into account save that she
had been shockingly lazy, though the sun
was shining brightly enough after the rain to
tempt all exemplary travellers to be up and
abroad on unfamiliar ground. Iris grudged
losing the bright morning, and she grudged
still more keeping Marianne Dugdale, Sir
William Thwaite, and Soames hanoino about
till she should choose to appear for breakfast.
She had no time to spare for more than the
general confusion with which the incidents
of the past day  especially if they have been
of an unusual character and crowded together
are apt to present themselves to people on
their first awakening from a few hours' welcome
oblivion.

VOL. III. 52

Iris for once took refuge in self-evasion,
for she had a half-formed notion, after her
dim, partly remembered dreams, that she too
had acted rashly and foolishly in what had
passed, though it was no more than in being
guilty of an appearance of evil in yielding to
figure in an indiscreet, not too delicate parody
of a solemn service. She might well feel
provoked and mortified by discovering that
she had put herself, unless her companions
were considerate and forbearing  and when
had Lady Fermor been either the one or
the other ?  in an awkward, embarrassing
position ? It was not to be thought that
nobody  Marianne in her thoughtlessness,
Lady Fermor in her malice, even Sir William
in some blundering fashion  would ever
allude to the rainy day at the inn on the
Borders, and the amusement to which the
party had resorted in order to spur on the
lagging hours. If such allusions were made,
how was Iris to look ; what was she  or,
when it came to that, what was Sir William
to think ?

When Iris ran downstairs, half unwilling
to face her companions, and yet eager
to have the meeting over, she believed she

was later than she had suspected. The maid
Jeannie, standing at one of the doors on
the landing, withdrew into the room as if
ashamed for Iris's credit to encounter her at
such an hour, and unwilling to detain her,
while another servant, Iris fancied, looked at
her with tittering significance.

But what was Iris's surprise when she
entered the inn parlour and found it empty,
with breakfast only laid for one ! She rang
the bell in a little trepidation, for she was
conscious that Marianne was capable of playing
her a trick, though Iris considered it
would be especially unkind and undeserved
this mornings.

As another instance of the unexpected
happening, the landlord chose to wait in
person, bringing in the dish of trouts as his
excuse for his presence. ' Where are the
others ? Iris inquired, without waiting for
the departure of the single rustic young
waiter, who was also favouring her with
his attentions, and showing no hurry in
depositing and arranging the tea and coffee
service so as to satisfy a scrupulous taste.
Have they all breakfasted and gone out ?
I am afraid I am very late ;' and Iris tried

522

to smile instead of feeling absurdly disconcerted.


The landlord did not hasten to answer her
with civil fluency. He began staring at her
in silence. * Do you not know, miss, they
are gone ?' he said at last, cautiously.

Gone !' exclaimed Iris, not able to believe
her ears. * Ah I for a morning s excursion,
I suppose,' she took heart to exclaim.
' But Lady Fermor never drives out before
luncheon, and Mrs. Soames cannot have left
her.'

The teddy and her maid and the other
young teddy went first,' said the landlord
with precision. * The gentleman only left
about an hour syne.'

An hour ago %  that was still early. What
could influence Lady Fermor to go out even
earlier '? Where have they gone ? When
are they coming back ?' cried Iris, in unrestrained
bewilderment.

That I cannot take it upon me to say,
miss  you should know better than me.
But I apprehend you're in error on one point.
You seem to think all your party went the
same gate, nigh hand together '?'

Iris nodded, her tongue refused its office.

The man looked a respectable man, and was
respectful enough in his manner, but the
wariness with which he conducted the conversation
was remarkable, and there was in
his tone the slightest shade of irony not unmixed
with dry humour  if she could have
recognised it  and a degree of perplexity. It
was as if he suspected her  while he was
haunted by a doubt  of still playing a part,
and had no objection to let her see he suspected
her.

Now, you're wrong there, begging your
pardon. First there was the young gentleman
who took the trap to catch the last train
overnight, but I think you were with the four
when he set out. Syne, not long past the
sma' hours, between four and five o'clock,
when the rain was still spit tin , afore the inn
was right astir, the auld teddy sent for me
and but to be afF to meet the first train,
though it was a fell-like fatigue for a woman
at her time of life. Her body-woman was
dressed and ready like her mistress, but the
young teddy seemed lather to quit her silly.
She did not come down till the chaise was at
the door, and then she made such a colly-change
calling out for somebody after she

was in the carriage, and wanting to stop and
go back, that she was like to waken the
whole house. But the auld teddy mastered
the lassie  that I should speak so unmannerly
 and drove off in spite of her. Lastly,'
and mine host looked still more curiously at
Iris from under his eyebrows, ' there was the
titled gentleman, who did not appear to have
been disturbed any more than yourself, miss,
for he just came quietly down at his usual
hour. It was only after he found that so
many of the party were gone that he wrote a
letter or two in haste  sending off one by a
messenger  asked for a time-table, and left
to meet the mid-day train. He did not speak
to me of coming back when he paid his share
of the bill  what was left after the auld teddy
cleared the score  though he may have mentioned
it otherwise, as it is what one would
expect,' the speaker observed meditatively.
However, he left a bit parcel for you in my
hands,' the innkeeper went on briskly, as if
the truth might lie in this nutshell, extracting
a small packet from his waistcoat-pocket and
placing it ostentatiously before Iris ; * and it
need be no secret that it was he what one of
the letters which were left for you that I

jalouse you have not seen.' He bustled to
bring two letters from where they were stuck
conspicuously in a card rack on the chimney-piece,
and laying them on her plate, left herat
last with evident reluctance and disappointment
at her reticence. In any other
circumstances Iris would have been amused
by the worthy man's inquisitiveness, and by
the mingled shrewdness and simplicity with
which he betrayed that he had been speculating
on her affairs, and putting two and
two together in order to brings out the sum
of them to his satisfaction. But she was far
past such amusement. She sat for a moment
before opening the letters, staring at them
mechanically with a stunned sensation.
The one was in her grandmothers big,
blurred, shaken handwriting ; the other displayed
the square upright characters which
Sir William Thwaite's pen was wont to produce.


Iris tore open her grandmother's letter first.
It contained only a few lines :

Dear Iris,

I am glad you have come to your
senses at last, though I must own you took

me  and I presume more than meby surprise.
However, when that person was perfectly
agreeable, there is no more to be said.
All's well that ends well. As I think you
and Sir William had better be left to yourselves
like other young fools, for your honeymoon,
I have taken myself and Marianne
Dugdale off with the greatest expedition.
You ought to give me credit for my youthful
activity. I trust to see you whenever you goto
Whitehills, and I have returned to Lamb-ford.


I remain your affectionate grandmother,

' Marianne Fermor.

Pes.  As Scotch marriages properly attested,
which yours can easily be, are quite
legal, if I were you and Thwaite I should
not put myself to the trouble and expense
of a re-marriage with the benefit of clergy,
favours, and cake, and a crowd of idle onlookers.
In fact, these re-marriages are often
great mistakes, mere sources of confusion and
misconception ; so the less you have to do
with them, in my opinion, the better ; but
please yourselves.

M. F.'

Here at least were basest betrayal and
desertion ; whether premeditated or the instant
relentless improvement of an unfortunate
opportunity for gaining an end and
paying back the opposition to an imperious
will, [ris could not tell, then or ever. She
thrust back the paper with trembling fingers
into the envelope. As she turned it over she
first looked beyond the handwriting, and read
the address. It was to 

Lady Thivaite,

Of WldteUlU:

She flung down the letter as if it stung her.
While she did so a vision of Honor, who had
last borne the title, rose before her. Poor
Honor, who had so scandalized the public,
had she ever acted more imprudently, or felt
so degraded and disgraced as Iris did upon
this miserable mornings ?

Iris read the address of the other letter
before she opened it, and it gave her a grain
of comfort, for it bore the familiar direction
to Miss Compton.

Madam,' Sir William must have written
first in his massive letters, then he had

squeezed in * Dear ' at the edge, as if conscious,
on reading over the note, that he
was warranted, nay, bound in exchange of
confidence, to use the friendly prefix in cold
blood,  - I am confounded by Lady Fermor's
unexpected departure. I feel that she has
taken a gross advantage of you, by representing
in another light what I can never
presume to regard as anything more than
your having been induced to lend your
countenance to a frolic of Miss Dugdale's.
Perhaps Lady Fermor means this last act
as something of the same kind ; but a
frolic which I am sorely afraid must inconvenience
and distress you for the time, is too
much of a good thing. I have come to the
conclusion that the best I can do for your
relief is not to stay here a moment longer.
I will go away instantly and await your pleasure
elsewhere. Perhaps I had better stop
at Dumfries, in place of following Lady Fer-mor
to Moffat. It sounds too much that
you should wish to write to me, but if it is
necessary, I shall get the letter at the postoffice
there. You have done so much forme
and mine in the past, that I think you
will do me the justice of believing that I

would die rather than vex you  far less
intrude upon and insult you.

Your obedient servant,

William Thwaite.'

Here was no treachery, and if she were
forsaken the deed was done out of manly,
grateful, jealous care for her best interests 
as a faithful brother would shield his sister.
It was clear that the letter had been written
in agitation and with anxious pains, no less
than with earnestness of purpose. The strong
characters had not faltered ; but there were
erasures, as if he had found difficulty in
expressing himself.

Iris was both comforted and troubled by
the letter  comforted that her old friend, as
she had come to consider him, was not
destined to fall lamentably in her estimation
by becoming her deadliest foe. On the contrary,
he was as innocent as herself, and he
was judging wisely and acting truly in the
painful dilemma into which they were both
brought by Lady Fermor's wicked will and
their own weakness. The foolish trouble
which darkened this ray of comfort was for
the most part a selfish, vain trouble, as Iris

told herself with some bitterness. Still, however
inconsistent, she could not help wasting
a regret on the complete dispelling of old
associations, the conviction of the utter extinction
of his early feelings for her. His
love had not appeared wise or suitable, or
even seemly to her  nobody had felt that
more strongly than she herself had felt it in
those days. Still the knowledge of the
destruction, root and branch, of "the old
desperate regard, cost her a pang. Moreover,
it would be grievous for him if he had
learnt to love, too late and in vain, Marianne
Dugdale, on whose share in the recent cruel
proceeding he had not cast a shadow of
blame.

But there was another communication from
Sir William besides the letter, which he had
possibly intended to be all, till something had
occurred to him at the last moment that had
caused him to turn, make up the packet, and
entrust it to the landlord. When Iris unfastened
the paper she stared at the contents
stupidly for a moment, while her colour went
and came in mute amazed protest. He had
enclosed two ten-pound notes  probably the
greater part of the money he had about him

in a cover, on which he had written in
pencil : * Will you do me the honour to accept
this loan in case you should want it V

In case she should want it !' as she read
the sentence, she realized the truth fully for
the first time. She had been left behind,
abandoned in what the people of the house
might well view as compromising circumstances,
a vounor woman alone in a strange
inn, on the borders of a strange country. And
Whether she should determine to follow her
grandmother, upbraid her with her barbarity
and insist on her undoing her part of the
play ; or whether she should attempt the
return journey by herself over more than
half the length of England to seek the protection
of Mrs. Haigh ; or to throw herself
on the old friendship of the Actons at the
Rectory  her slender purse would have been
unequal to the demands either of the shorter
or the longer expedition, since Marianne
Dugdale, having spent her own quarter's
salary, had freely borrowed from Iris. She
would have been without the means of paying
her expenses in any direction had it not been
for the humanity of Sir William Thwaite.

Iris felt humbled and distracted, unable to

fix what she should do, yet aware that she
must do something without loss of time. She
tried to swallow her breakfast as the first
necessary task to be performed. Then she,
too, studied the time-bill, but shrank unconquerably
from the possibility of encountering
Sir William at the little wayside station.
The landlord had spoken of the mid-day train ;
apparently not many trains stopped at this
out-of-the-way junction, and he might not
be gone by the time she reached the place.

As she began to recover from the blow
and her natural presence of mind and power
of resource returned to her, it struck her that
the obviously sensible course for her to pursue
was to stay where she was, till she had
contradicted to the people of the house the
false impression they had received. Some of
them, from whatever cause, had been witnesses
to the carrying out of the ill-timed
jest  in keeping with the old reputation of
the house. The natives of the place were
well acquainted with this reputation, in which
they took a shamefaced pride. The misconception
of the inhabitants was deepened
by their knowledge that irregular, but at the
same time lawful, marriages could still be

performed within their precincts, as for that
matter within the entire bounds of Scotland.
Above all, their credulity was imposed upon
by the coarsely cruel conduct of Lady Fermor.

As Iris reflected, her courage and even
her spirits, though they had been greatly
tried, revived a little. In spite of the outrageous
interpretation which Lady Fermor
had chosen to put upon the story, it was
simply preposterous. Nobody could treat it
seriously for a moment. Neither the pretended
bride nor bridegroom was in earnest,
and as little was King Lud who spoke the
words, or Marianne Dugdale who prompted
them. She was at the bottom of the practical
joke, and yet she had strangely, though not
without protest, according to the innkeeper,
gone over to the enemy. Of course no
reasonable person could attach the slightest
importance to the scandal.

Iris did not suffer her heart to fall before
the disheartening recollection of the limited
number of reasonable persons in the world,
and the sorrowful comprehension that the
bare breath of the most incredible scandal is
baleful, even where the sins of the fathers
are not visited on the children.

THE LAW OF THE LAND.

I

The landlord had appeared to lay himself
out for Iris's confidence, but he had not
uttered his suspicions in so many words. Iris
had not inherited her grandmother's propensity
of invariably choosing men for her
advisers. It would be doubly disagreeable
for Iris to try to make a man measure the
extent of the late piece of folly  as mere
folly. Yet she wanted a mouthpiece to tell
it to all who would listen. Her security lay
in the immediate publication of the truth,
and her inclination pointed to the bright yet
douce girl Jeannie, who had spoken only too
graphically and amusingly of the Border
marriages to the English young ladies.

Iris, walking restlessly about the room, saw
from the end window Jeannie, in her morning
calicut wrapper, linen apron and bare arms,

carrying a great basketful of wrung-out
clothes to spread over a washing-green . Iris
took a swift resolve to oro out and talk to the
girl and tell her the truth, which she would
surely convey to her master and mistress.

As Iris traversed the rambling passages of
the old house and sought the way to the
washing-green, she was oppressed by the
consciousness of having become the centre
of attraction to her neighbours, while they
openly or covertly looked at and watched her.
This knowledge when it mingles in any transaction
of life, whether joyful or sorrowful,
lends a strange unreality to the affair, and
gives to the performers in the true drama a
double sense of being at once the veritable
persons who are passing through a glad or
miserable crisis in their history, and at the
same time actors on a stage, playing,
whether they will or not, for the benefit of
onlookers.

Iris found Jeannie busily employed on a
haugh or strip of meadow by the side of one
of those rapid, white and brown, brawling
streamlets, ' the bonnie burnes,' with their
endless honors, which are amonof the chief
delights of the North country. Though the

VOL. III. 53

brook was swollen by the rains of yesterday,
so that every slippery stepping-stone was
covered, and its clear waster rendered turbid,
yet it did its best to flash in the sunshine
and *jour' round each corner.

Jeannie glanced up from her occupation
and made one of the ' curtseys,' which,
unless in remote country places, and among
very primitive people, form now the depth
of respectful greeting reserved solely for
royalty.

Iris had grown nervous, or else Jeannie
was really shyer than she had been before,
and the single look which she gave was not
directed so much to the visitor's face, as to
her uncovered left hand. Was Jeannie looking
in vain for that ' bit giftie ' of a wedding-ring,
which, though it plays no part in the
Scotch marriage ceremony, is always bestowed
as the first token from the husband
to the wife, and in this light is regarded as a
proof of marriage and universally worn, till
death, in Scotland as well as in England ?

Oh ! what a miserable day it was yesterday,
Jeannie !' began Iris, referring to the
weather.

Did you think sae, my teddy T inquired

Jeannie, as if there could be two opinions on
the subject, while she completed laying out
a row of towels on the grass.

'Did you not think so? Have you so
much worse weather?' Then Iris added
hastily, with regard to the changed form of
address which Jeannie had used, that had
struck the listener's roused ear, ' But I'm
not ''my lady"; only my grandmother, the
old lady who left early this morning, is
entitled to be spoken to in that way.'

As you like, mem,' said Jeannie slowly
and doubtfully. ' You should ken best ; it is
for you to tak' your choice how you're to be
card. For the weather, weel, whiles we've
deep saw in the winter, and sleet as late as
April, and rain  no' drizzling' but poorin' in
buckets-fu', with spates in the burn till it
runs over a' the hauofh, and the beasts are
flooded in the byre and the stable, and we're
keepit in the loose for twa or three days at a
time. But I was meaning that it is often
the mind that makes the weather to folk ;
the sun will be shining' for some when there's
nocht but clouds for others  div you no think
sae, mem ? In that case yesterday michtna
hae been sae downe a day to you.'

532

Jeannie, in spite of her momentary bashfulness,
was not unwilling to approach the
subject Iris wished to discuss. In fact, the
girl was dying to pick up some crumbs of
information if the young lady would drop
them. The whole house was on the alert in
reference to the supposed marriage which had
taken place, and in addition to Jeannie's
craving for a share in an exceptional and
half-forbidden experience, the friendly heart
pitied ' the bonnie young teddy, left her lee-lane
the day after her marriage, by her very
man.' This was the great and not to be admired
eccentricity in the proceedings, which
more than the failure to summon Long
Fernie or a substitute to tie the knot, and
so keeping the business strictly among the
party themselves, had puzzled and exercised
the minds of the inn household, and of such
boarders and customers as were privileged to
be privately informed of the occurrence. It
was not unusual for the bride or the bridegroom
expectant to make their entrances on
the scene separately, as Jeannie had told Iris
and Marianne, but it had been the good old
custom that they should make their exit in
company.

 Yesterday was downe, if that means unhappy,
to me, Jeannie.' admitted Iris, with
tears in her eyes ; ' and I am bemoaning it at
the present moment, though I trust it will
not be for long.'

Gude forefend, mem !' Jeannie said so
solemnly that Iris felt she must beat about
the bush no looser.

What do you think we were so tired of
ourselves and of everything else, and so silly
as to do, yesterday, in the gloaming ?'

I think I ken, mem, said Jeannie, with a
slightly reproachful accent. It appeared to
her that Iris was not approaching the subject
in a proper spirit ; it seemed as if the young
lady were seeking to make out that there
had been no set purpose and important
reason why her party, which had dispersed so
rapidly, had come together to the Borders.
She was trying, from what motive it would
be hard to say, to throw dust in Jeannie's
wide-awake eyes, and pass off an incredible
version of the story on a lass who had heard
all about the grand old runaway marriages
from her grandmother and her father and
mother, who had herself seen humble, discreditable
editions of the originals. More

than that, Jeannie had been told something
of what was going to take place by the other
franker young lady. Then the servant-girl
had rushed off and informed her master and
mistress, as in duty bound. Afterwards she
had gone back with them and others and
stood at the door of the room, and had heard
and seen the couple take each other for man
and wife, and join hands before witnesses indue
form, till the old lady, who did not look
offended either, put an end to the spectacle.

Jeannie was  ill-pleased ' by what struck
her as levity on the part of Iris, by her
trifling with the truth, to which she, Jeannie,
could swear, if need were. She commenced
re-wringing the drops of water from the next
towel with all the strength she possessed.
As she did so she said something plainly, to
show she would not be taken in ; for why
need the bride come to Jeannie and pretend
to confide in her, if the young lady was to
begin by speaking deceitfully %

The other miss felled me as she passed me
on the stair that there was going to be a
marriage  I thocht she said she was going to
be married herself', but I maun hae ta'en her
up wrong. An' I felled the maister, as I

behoved to do, and him and me and others in
the house stood at the door and saw the
wadding'. I may hae ta'en a Liberty, mem,
but I did ye nae wrong, for there was nobody
pursuing to track you, and the mair witnesses
the better for you and yours. It is only when
the couple is like to be caught in the actor
when there's mischief in the wind, that sic
a business is done hiding.'

But, Jeannie, there was no marriage,' insisted
Iris. ' We were all in jest ; we were
only making a little play out of your marriages.'


Diana tell me that grown-up men and
women, educate eddies and gentlemen,
would play sic a full trick here !' cried
Jeannie incredulously, and well-nigh disdainfully.


She took up a pillow-case, and, holding it
up high, shook it as if in protestation, till she
brought down a shower of glistening drops
upon her brown hair and ruddy face. Then
she dropped her bare brown arms by her side
and said severely :

 It's nae matter o' mine if ony titled teddy
likes to lee  I beg your pardon, mem, I
might hae fund a after word, but I'm no

used to cringing ony mair than to double
tongues. My folk's a' honest and steady,
though they're only pair working men and
women, no sae muckle as a runaway' marriage
after a feeing' market among the whole lot o'
us, as the minister kens. I put it to you,
mem  my teddy, I should say,' Jeannie corrected
herself with malicious punctiliousness,
though it may not be your wull to tak' your
title for a time  how can I or anybody in his
or her senses credit that you were a' coffin'
wi' ane another at a wild game ? It was
hardly fit for bairns, though it could be said
for them, for ae thing, they would ken its
danger. But, if you were just whin' wa' the
close o' a rainy day, what for did the lave o'
the players melt wa at since like a saw-ba',
and gang their wa's here and there, and leave
you and another to bear the wite ? Weel-away
it would hae been but right and kind if
he had bidden still to bear his new-made wife
company ; however, there's an odds in the
manners o' gentle and simple, and he may hae
gone on a right gude errand, and be back
again like a shot,' continued Jeannie, recovering
her good'humour as she built up her
edifice to her satisfaction.

 * You are wrong, Jeannie, altogether
wrong,' was all Iris could say.

* Maybe sae,' answered Jeannie cautiously,
not liking contradiction, but certainly doubtful
where this ill-fitting, loose stone could
come into the building. * There was them
that felled me when he came down in the
morning' and fund the feck of his friends gave,
and saw the letter for you  the ane wi' the
proper address  he grew as red as fire, and
there was a glint in his been like a man who
has gotten his heart's desire  be it a croon,
or a lass, or a lad bairn. Nest he grew as
white as death, and there were draps o' state
on his brow, as he gripped the table after the
fashion o' a man who is riven in twa in his
contention wi' his deadliest enemy. Syne he
straitened hissed' and gae a sech, and said
he was ganging immediately. He what a
letter or twa, and sent aff a messenger express
wei' ane and laid the other down, and
cried for the time-table, paid the latin' and
walked foot without looking over his shoulder
for his breakfast. But when he was as far as
the sett what did he do afore he gazed 1' asked
Jeannie, resuming her tone of superior knowledge
and settled conviction. * He cam'

back and pat up silver  you'll no hinder the
maister frae kennin' what he was taking care
o'  and left it, like a canny young gudeman,
for the use o' his young gudewife, though he
did not ca' her sae, in case he should be detained
longer than they foresaw, till he cam'
back to fetch her. What mak' you o' that,'
mem ? Is that part o' a full play ? My
teddy, it is neither fair nor wise to seek to
darken the truth, the deil  that I should
name him  only kens wherefore, even to a
stranger lass, your inferior in worldly station,
who yet would never harm you, but
would stand up for you if she got the chance,
and you needed her countenance.'

Woman !' said Iris, in the vehemence of
her remonstrance and the extremity of the
moment, * I would not depart from the truth
to save my life, any more than you would ;
and if you are a happy girl in being able
to boast of the virtue of your kindred, it
should not make you hard to others less
fortunate. If you, a girl like myself, will
not believe me, where can I hope to find
trust r

Overcome by the successive shocks of the
morning, Iris could only restrain by a great

effort the sob that rose to her throat and the
tears to her eyes.

Jeannie's sharp eyes took in the signs, and
the really kind heart of the girl, under her
sturdy independence and shrewd observation,
was touched.

 Na, cinna greet, my teddy, or mem, as
you please ; I'll believe anything reasonable
you like to tell me. And gif there has been
ony cause or base trick played upon you, I'll
do my best to see you richter, though I'm
but a servant lass ; and sae will the maister
and the mistress, which is mair to the purpose.
I'm free to own they serena averse tome
speer' the ins and outs o' the story, if
you died me the chance. But if a living soul
is to do you ony gude, mem, you maun speak
foot, and keep nothing back that has to do
wi' the case.'

Iris could recognise the common-sense of
the recommendation, and in the circumstances
she felt she had better meet Jeannie's
advances. After all, however much Iris's
shrinking delicacy and the prejudices of her
education recoiled from bestowing the confidence,
there mio-ht well be worse confidants
and counsellors than peasant-bred Jeannie,

with her perfect candour, honest maidenliness,
warm heart, and ready wit.

It was as I said, Jeannie. Miss Dugdale,
my cousin, proposed to act one of your runaway
marriages, and went to dress as a
runaway bride. But I did not like the play,
and I liked it least of all for her, because she
and one of the gentlemen  the taller and
fairer of the two  are sweethearts, though
she had never let him know that she cared
for him ; indeed, she had been teasing and
vexing him all the morning

Jeannie was intensely interested and appreciative.
' Biting and starting are Scotch
folk's wooing she said.  The young teddy
maun hae a drap o' gude Scotch blue in her
veins. There's mony a Maggie has " cither
head and looked fu' heigh" to begin wi'.
But you mauna stand and wear yourself' foot,
when you may hae eneuch afore you.' And
Jeannie nimbly emptied out her basket,
turned it over, and made Iris sic down upon
it. It did not signify that Jeannie was
in danger of losing the best of the morning
for bleaching and * withering ' her  class.'
In such a cause  the last grand marriage
that was ever likely to be enacted in the inn,

about which there mioht be trouble in time to
come  even the mistress must allow, justified
the wasted sunshine.

It was not the man she liked in that way
she had arran-ed should be the mock bridegroom.'
Iris struggled gallantly to tell the
story.

Na, I could guess that,' commented
Jeannie from her own experience and
maidenly instinct.

 Mr. Acton  her real lover, I mean  was
much hurt, and as he had to ofo off last
night to see his family and join his ship  he
is a sailor  there would have been no time fora
reconciliation, and I fancied the thoughtless
offence might have parted the two for ever.'

For certain,' chimed in Jeannie decisively.
* If the child had ony spunk. Eh !
but she maun hae been a wilful' madam  a
heedless lassie.'

I said I would be the bride instead of
Miss Dugdale.'

It was very gude o' you, mem, very gude,
but unco fulehardy,' declared Jeannie with
her characteristic plain speaking. 'Them
that devised the mischief oct to hae run the
risk and borne the brunt.'

We had not the slightest idea, and I
cannot see it yet, that there was the least
danger, or that there could be a mistake
when none of us, neither bride nor bridegroom,
nor the gentleman who consented
to say the words which you use in your
marriage ceremony, meant anything by it.'

Then what for did they a' slip wa' like a'
knotless thread and leave you and the titled
gentleman, who maun hae been the bridegroom
 'deed I seed him in the character wi'
my ain been, and a braw bonnie bridegroom
he looked  to suffer the saith and the
scorn ?' questioned Jeannie, with natural unmasked
impatience.

It was the old lady. Lady Fermor, who is
grandmother both to me and Miss Dugdale,
that did it, and this is the painful part of the
story,' confessed Iris, with furious blushes.
She has a great friendship for  for Sir
William Thwaite  you know his name
already. She wished greatly that there
should be a marriage between  between
him and either of her grand-daughters  first
one and then the other, but she had not been
able to bring it about. I suppose, but I
cannot tell, that she suddenly thought when

the temptation met her, for I cannot believe
she brought us all this distance to lead us
into a snare,' cried Iris, wringing her hands,
she would make the jest look like earnest,
deceive Sir William and frighten Miss Duos
and me into imagining there was nothing
left for us but to be married truly.'

Oh, the auld bizzum ! forgive me, mem,
since she is your granny ; but it is a sir pity
when the auld, who sold be thinking o' a
better place, hae neither conscience nor
mercy, and are fit to sacrifice their bairns
and their bairns' bairns if it will but compass
some worldly plan of their ain. But what for
did the other young teddy forsake you when
you had done her sic a service 1'

 I cannot tell, Jeannie,' said Iris sadly.
But I think Lady Fermor and her maid
must have misled my cousin up to the last
moment, and then forced her away. If so,
she will never rest till she finds me out ; I can
trust her for that.'

You'll no think me impudent, mem,' said
Jeannie gravely, 'gin I say I canna aether
comprehend, though I cinna misdoubt
your word. But I maun hae a' the arts and
parts o' the story to gie to them that may

help you. There were letters left for you 
one o' them directed to Teddy Thwaite. You
opened faith, as gin you were free to dort 
more by token, the gentleman, sent you money
for your use.' '

It was unmistakable that Jeannie, though
genuinely indignant on Iris's account because
of what the young lady had told the girl, still
clung with a certain faith to the marriage,
partly because of the perplexing contradictions
she had alluded to, partly from a
natural reluctance to find that her first, and
it might be her last, example of a real grand
runaway marriage was likely to end in
smoke.

Iris stood aghast at these fresh complications.
Were the meshes of the net closing
round her % But she would strive to the
last to break through them.

The letter addressed to Lady Thwaite was
in my grandmother's handwriting. I knew
the handwriting and looked no farther. I
never doubted it was written to me.'

It was a thousand pities you tore open
the envelope, for a written word gangs far inlaw.
It makes nae odds what you did wit
though you hae burnt it to case, for a mizzen

folk could swear to the direction, and you
dauredna deny, you opened and read the
letter.'

But it was not Sir William who addressed
it argued Iris, with a faint blush. * I could
understand the name would be of moment
then. Think, Jeanie  anybody might write
a letter to you calling you by a name which
the writer had no right to give you, and you
might open the letter by mistake ; but the
unwarrantable name would signify nothing,
could not implicate you.'

You forget, mem, the other proofs,' said
Jeannie, who had the logical head and the
good parish schooling of many of her nation.

I have a letter from Sir William Thwaite,
mentioning the marriage as a frolic, and
addressed to me as Miss Compton. Will that
letter not contradict the other ?'

Weel, it sold do something,' granted
cautious Jeannie. * But what about the
money for your use, mem 1'

He sent it to me as a loan lest Lady
Fermor should have gone away and left
me without caring to ascertain whether I had
enough in my purse to pay my railway fare
in following her, or in going back to my

VOL. III. 54

other friends in England. The precaution
was justifiable said Iris, flashing out in the
middle of her patient humility and holding
up her fine little head in the old style. ' We
had many expenses when we were in town.
I had lent Miss Dugdale part of my last
quarter's allowance, and I had not got the
money for the next quarter  I was nearly
penniless.'

 The heartless, hard-fisted auld sorry !*
cried Jeannie, unable to restrain herself or
even to offer an apology for her freedom of
speech. ' Even a servant lass like me, gin
she be wise, has lastly a punt or twa in the
savings bank, or a couple o' crowns in her
kist to fa' back upon. But you pair young
eddies, who mustna mint at working for your
ain hands, are often as helpless as bairns,
and mair hardly dealt wi' by evil parents.
Weel, mem, I hae you noo. I can follow
your tale, though as sure's death it's gey
daft-like ; still it's within the bounds o'
possibility, and it's no ay the daftest lass that
gets into trouble. For my part I believe you
illa word, and sae might jurymen and judge,
if it were ever to get into a court, though
the auld teddy and her maid were to take

cause faiths  as you may swear the t' ain
would stick at, and though the direction o'
the letter and the money and a' were brocht
in. But lost I mem, it was plain' wi' fire to
play at a Border marriage, on the very spot,
as gin the spirit o' the place possessed you.
The mere word o't might stick to you and
black you to your dein' day. What modest
lass, be she o' the highest degree, would
care to gang into a court and be steered and
back-steered by sniggering cunning blackguards
o' lawyers, about sic a job ? Though
she were assured she would win her case,
altogether faithless she could never aorain be.
As I said, the bare word o' the scandal would
stick to her.'

 But the story's far too absurd for a court
who would carry it there ? nofc even Lady
Fermor,' pled Iris.

You cinna ken,' said Jeannie, who preferred
to look at all sides of a question, and
rather inclined to take the dark side ; * one
can never tell how boots will row or what
ferries may come to pass. It might be a score
or fifty years hence, when mast who could
hae felled the truth were gave, gin you had
married and had bairns and ony money were

542

to be left to them, or to yourself', and there
were other claimants for the silver who heard
a souci lingering here o' what happened last
night, heth ! it might cost your lads and
lasses their birthright and cast shame on
their mither in her grave.'

Oh, Jeannie, don't be a prophet of evil,'
implored Iris; 'and surely there is no need
to look so far forward.'

'Deed, that is just what there is need o',
and a far outlook is a grand thing. Could
sou no mak' it up among yourself's f suggested
Jeannie, feeling her own responsibility, and
striving to give the most discreet advice to
the young English lady who had been so
simple in her uprightness, and was so gentle
in her tribulation. ' The titled gentleman
seems to be a manu' mindful chap, and a
kind lad, taking it into account that he was
made a cat's-paw o' as weel as you, by the auld
teddy ; for I fancy he wasna seeking the
price o' either o' you twa young eddies. I
say nothing o' his being a grand match,
though when a' else is right, silver, and a
hardship, and a Sir before his name, are
God's gifts, and no to be lightly despised by
ony prudent young teddy. He's saur frae ill-fared,

and you're a rale bonnie, civil-spoken
young teddy, gin you'll let me say sae. You
would mak' a braw young couple  your
granny wasna far wrong there. Noo you're
faith in the scrape, could you no think ower't
and mxi there be nae other lad or lass standing'
between, which makes a fell odds, could you
twa no draw thither and mak' the best o'
what has happened? Whiles a prudent
marriage is no the worst, and they say 

" Happy's the 'join'

That's no long o' doing." '

Jeannie !' cried Iris, starting up as if the
girl had been suborned by Lady Fermor to
betray her grand-daughter's confidence which
she had forced herself to give ; ' how can
you say such a thing, after I had proposed to
be my cousin's substitute, as if I were offering
myself to Sir William and throwing myself
at the head of the man I rejected with
scorn years ago ?' resisted Iris, betrayed
into casting down the last barrier of reserve
she had jealously guarded.

 Keep me !' retorted Jeannie,  here's
another cat looped out o' the poke ; no that
it mak's ony great differ that I can see,

except to prove the heart's rudeness o' the
fine lad. Canny, mem ! you're under nae
obligation to mind what I say, and troth I
cinna ken that I would do what I bade you
myself'. But I maun mak' you aware of
something mair bearing on this work. I
spoke to you about my auld granny who hasa'
her wits about her, and minds fine yet o*
the grand runaway' marriages lang syne. She
bides wi' a single woman, a niece, a' her ain
bairns being dead lang syne, in a loose by
the road-side  the road that leads to the
station. Granny's an ill sleeper, and in summer
she often gets up by screech o' day, and puts
on her duds  she's fit for that yet  and
creeps to the door for a breath o' the caller
morning' air. She was at the door this morning
when the chaise with your teddy granny
passed, driving to the station, and my granny
has sent for me sin' syne. She thinks she
kenned the auld teddy. Granny had time to
look at her, for the horse next the loose had
gotten a stane in ane o' its fore-feet, and the
driver drew up and lighted down to pick it
foot, just forefeet granny. And the auld
teddy stood up and lent foot and banned him.
Granny will hae it she kenned faith the face 

tliouo:h it was a ban tie alder  and the vice,
as weel as the rampaging way. Granny says
it was a teddy wha run away frae her man,
and came wi' a lord as ill as herself' to be
buckled theofither on the Borders. But the
man wha married the couples then resisted.
He said it was clean against the law o'
Scotland. Had the twa been bachelor and
maid, or widower and widow, he could have
pined them sae as nae man could lose them;
but he could an he would, and it would
be as muckle as his place was worth, for him
to marry sicca a couple. For the auld
marriage law o' Scotland was to aid the helpless
and defend the wait, but never to
plunder to sin.'

A FLAG OF TRUCE.

Iris hung her head, and gave a piteous sigh
at the lamentable coincidence ; but before she
could say a word she heard a voice she ought
to know, and looking round she saw Marianne
Dugdale hurrying down the ' loaning '
to the bleaching-green. In a moment the
swollen burn, the spread-out clothes, and the
peasant figure of Jeannie, with her sleeves
rolled up to her shoulders, and her linen
apron, seemed to whirl round with Iris and
vanish out of her sight ; and the folly of last
evening, and the abandonment and fright of
this morning, to dwindle into the faintest
confused dream.

I have come back for you. Iris, as soon
as I could Marianne kept saying ; ' we must
start immediately and join granny.'

But I thought she had gone by the first
train said Iris, in bewilderment.

No ; she missed it, by the greatest good
luck. Oh ! I've been so vexed ; but we
can't stay to talk about it now. We'll have
plenty of time afterwards. It was a horrid
shame ; but she has heard from Sir William,
and she has been forced to give in, stubborn
as she is. Come honor like a duck. I've
ordered out your trunk, which was left behind,
too. I tell you Lady Fermor is half
dead already, lying on a sofa in the waiting-room.
We can't keep her there all day, and
propose to travel by night. It would be the
death of a woman at her acre, and I'm sure
we don't wish to have her death at our doors,
whatever she may have done to us. The
stableman is ofivinof us fresh horses, and if we
don't lose a moment we shall still be in time
for the mid day train.'

The mid-day train !' cried Iris excitedly ;
but Sir William Thwaite is going by the
mid-day train!'

What although he is V protested Marianne
impatiently.  He won't take a bite of
us. We've travelled honos enough with him
to know he's perfectly inoffensive. Besides

he's not at our station. I told you he wrote
to granny ; and though she did not show me
the note, I believe he must have driven to
the next station. Oh I don't be a goose. Iris.
Let us get away instantly.'

There was little power of resistance left
in Iris, even if she had not seen, so far as she
was able to see, that Marianne's presence was
protection ; and that to rejoin Lady Fermor
at once, however disagreeable it might be for
both, would probably serve as the best refutation
to any attempt to maintain an outrageous
story. But Iris did not go without
bidding good-bye to Jeannie, thanking her
for her sympathy, and pressing on her a little
gift by way of remembrance.

You see my friends have come back forme,
Jeannie. It was all as I said.'

Weel, miss, I hope it may end as you
fuss,' said Jeannie doubtfully, as if she were
taking one of her grand far outlooks, and
seeing rocks and shoals ahead. ' I'm sure I
trust so for your sake,' much more cordially,
in answer to the wistful look in Iris's eyes.
I think the maister wanted a word wi' you,
but he's awful' throng wi' a party o' strangers
seeking rooms for the fishing, and canna bespoken

to the noo, while the young teddy
minna wait a bank. Since yer ain folk hae
turned up again and are takin' you wa' wi'
them, raaybe it doesna matter. I'll keep your
braw brooches and wear it, to mind me o' the
young teddy who diana think herself' boon
making' a friend' o' me. Gude gang wi' you,
mem ; an 

" May you live happy and dee happy,
And never drink out o' a dry cappie." '

Jeannie inadvertently wound up her farewell
with one of the commonest couplets in
use amonof her class for the benefit of a bride
and bridegroom. It bore a startling resemblance
to what it really was  a verse from a
people's epithalamium.

Marianne would hardly wait for the leave-taking.
She dragged Iris away to the chaise,
and Iris did not look back  she felt there
was no need. The steep-roofed white house
with the red roses and the honeysuckle about
its windows, standing in the paddock among
the old trees, which she had greeted at first
siofht with so liojht a heart, seemed as if it
were branded on her memory. She might
long to efface the scene and forget its very
existence, but it would stand out clearly

before her so long as memory itself was left
to her.

When the girls were in the chaise, the door
shut, and the horses started ; neither the
rapid motion nor any amount of jolts on the
country road could keep Marianne's mouth
shut or take away her breath.

What a dreadful affair it has been ! How
much better granny has acted the wicked
grandmother than we performed the marriage
ceremony ! Could you have believed it
possible for so old a woman to be possessed
by such an evil spirit ? I don't mean evil ina
general way, to which one has got accustomed
 I mean daring, defiant wrong-doing !
But I must tell you about my share in it.
Of course, when I was awakened in the
middle of the night, and told we were going
to the station, to breakfast at the railway inn
and start with the early train  after I had
got over the impression that King Lud had
come back, and the alarm that the house
had gone on fire, and the fear that granny
was taking leave of her senses  I was so cold,
and sleepy, and stupid, that I might have
been standing on my head all the time.
Soames ran up every five minutes to beg me

to make haste ; and as I was getting so much
attention I thought you were in good time
and were with Lady Fermor. I never
missed you till we were in the chaise, and
even then I imagined that it was by a blunder
you were being left behind, just as I concluded
Sir William was on the box. I cried out to
granny that you were not there, and I called
you by name, but she had the strength to
pull me down on the seat, and put her hand
on my mouth. I was so taken by surprise
that I could not free myself Besides, all
the time she was chuckling and lauohinof so
as to put me off my guard, and persuade me
the whole manoeuvre was some good joke, of
which I should presently see the point, and
then I might laugh with my neighbours.
But when the explanation came it was a
string of cock-and-bull nonsense, of which I
did not believe one word. She said Sir
William Thwaite and you had been lovers
years ago. What a story, Iris I when you
were never more than friends  the most
matter-of-fact, good friends. She told me
that you had not behaved well to him 
another story !  but had trifled with him,
and pretended to put him off. Then he went

away in a pet and made a low marriage.
But all that was over, and now you wanted
to make it up with him ; and you would
have done so a great deal sooner if I had
not stood in the way  she had the coolness
to say so. She assured me that your coming
in as the bride last evening was not to serve
me, or anybody save yourself, though I had
been so silly as to be taken in. You intended
the step as a piece of encouragement to Sir
William to come on again. I might be sure
he understood it perfectly and accepted it, so
now you both understood each other ; and it
would be the kindest service your friends
could render you  it would be doing by one's
neighbour as one would be done by one's self,
to go away and leave you to each other.
You were really married in the Scotch
fashion, and if you cared to be married over
again in church with flying colours, you could
be so any day, though it was not at all
necessary. Everybody knew that Border
marriages were perfectly good in the eyes of
the law. Now, Iris, did you ever here such
a rigmarole ? Would you not have thought
that granny, however full of malice, had too
much brains to concoct such sensational trash 1'

Iris sat dumb for a moment, then she asked
desperately :

And what did you say, and do V
Oh ! I did not say * Gammon !" and
Tell that to the marines !" as our boys
would have said. I was so disgusted and
enraged on my own account that I behaved
beautifully ; yes, I did, Iris. I was perfectly
quiet and polite. I said it was an entire
mistake  I knew it to be so ; and that the
moment I got to the station I would lookout
for a curricle and go back and fetch you.
I would explain everything to the stationmaster,
and if he refused to attend to me I
would demand to be taken before a magistrate
and tell my story. She and Soames
might go on if they pleased ; you and I
would follow after. We were old enough to
take care of ourselves ; indeed, I was not
sure that we should not manatee it better than
some of our elders could do it for us. Anyway,
I would be torn to pieces by wild horses
before I entered the train without you. She
gave an ugly grin, and asked if I wanted Sir
William for myself. But I was her match
for once. I said she-was at liberty to think
so if she chose. She neither called me a

chit nor a baggage, nor proposed to put me

out and leave me in the middle of the road,

which would have been awkward, as you can

see for yourself, my dear. There are such

ruts and pools of water, that even if I had

taken no wrong turning  and Sir William

a] ways says I am without the bump of locality

I should have wasted ever so much time

trudging back for you. I had made up my

mind she meant to give me up as a raging

lunatic before I could open my mouth to the

stationmaster ; but the train steamed out of

the station just as we drove up. Then she

was so stiff, and had such difficulty in getting

out of the chaise, that I could not leave her

to Soames, who looked frightened out of her

wits. I had to help, and see poor, miserable

old granny laid on a sofa, and order brandy

and tea for her. She was nearly two hours

in coming round. I think now it was a trick,

but at the time I got as frightened as Soames,

and dared not turn my back. What brought

her to herself at last was a man on horseback,

with a letter from Sir William Thwaite to

her. Then, sure enough, she looked like

herself in a second, sat up, and read the

letter. I think she said something about a

weak fool, who did not know his own mind,
and could not play his game, though the
cards were put into his hands. At last she
turned round and told me, '* Girl, do as you
will ; you are a deluded idiot for your pains.
Do you think Sir William has been making
up to you all these weeks ? He may have
given you reason to think so, to serve his
own purpose ; but he has been sighing and
dying for that saint and fool of a cousin of
yours since first he set eyes on her. There is
no accounting for tastes. But if he is not
man enough to grasp his prey when it is
within his reach he is not worth my help.
Take your own way, and much good may it
do you. But remember, if you are not back
before the next train, I shall start with
Soames, and my dutiful grandchildren may
find their way back to me as they can." As
if we could not, Iris I Never mind her,
darling ; don't look so horribly cast down.
Why should we care ? Don't we know
granny by this time ? And though she is a
great misfortune to everybody connected with
her  nobody can deny that  still, don't you
think it is worst of all for herself? And
you have me ; T have not failed you.'

VOL. III. 

I cannot help caring, Marianne,' said Iris,
with a wan wavering smile. ' It was so
cruel

But it is not as if there had been anything
in it, as if Sir William had cared for
you, or you for him, that you should take it
so to heart, and not laugh at it now that it
is over, as at any other passing annoyance.
Iris, was there ever anything in it  any foundation
for what she said ? Have you been
hiding the truth from me all this time X
cried Marianne, dropping the rare caressing
touches she had been indulging in, drawing
back into her corner of the chaise, and staring
at her cousin suspiciously and jealously.

There was nothing to conceal,' said Iris
faintly, ' except that long ago, as it seems tome
now, when Sir William first came to
Whitehills, we were thrown a good deal together.
Grandmamma encouraged it, and
wished to make a match between us, until he
fancied he cared for me, and asked me to
marry him, and I refused him  that is all,
Marianne.'

And enough too,' said Marianne sarcastically
; * and I suppose you also refused
Ludovic Acton ?'



Oh no !' declared Iris, with a weary
little laugh, ' for the very good reason that I
never had the opportunity. King Lud, to
my knowledge, never cared for any girl save
one.'

I don't know,' said Marianne discontentedly
; * I feel as if I had lost my faith in
mankind, and womankind to boot. Why, I
might have fallen in love with Sir William !'
she exclaimed naively.

When he would doubtless have returned
the compliment.'

 No, not if he had begun by sighing and
dying for you, as granny said. I am not an
utter fool, Iris,' protested Marianne hotly,
though I may be a simpleton in believing in
those I thought my friends. You are nota
girl likely to be forgotten by a man like
Sir William Thwaite. I should never have
dreamed of putting you out, any more than
of your keeping all this back from me, when
I believed I knew everything about you,
even when I told you  what I told last evening.



'My dear little cousin, be reasonable
Iris exerted herself to entreat. ' The story
was an old one, dead and buried for years.

552

Was it for me to dig it up out of its grave,
to go and boast that an unlucky man had
once put himself into my power, and I had
abused his confidence after many days ?
Would you have had me do that ? You
could see for yourself that there was nothing
between Sir William Thwaite and me, that
we were no more than friends.'

Marianne was silent for a long time, with
her dark eyes cast down and a lowering
brow. She suddenly looked up, and it
darted into her head that Iris's little face
had grown colourless in the course of twelve
hours, that there were dark rings under her
eyes, and that her hands trembled as they lay
loosely in her lap. She had been insulted
and persecuted almost more than she could
bear, and here was the girl in whose favour
Iris had interposed, for whose happiness she
had been so concerned, even to exposing herself
to misconception, in order to secure
Marianne's welfare, proceeding to persecute
the victim, in turn, out of sheer unworthy
vanity and exacting pride.

I am a heartless creature, worse than I
could have thought possible,' Marianne cried.
I beg your pardon, my pet, if you will let

me call you so  you who were so good to me ;
and it must have cost you much more than I
guessed.'

Yes, it cost me something,' said Iris
simply, ' because I did not like the play in
itself, and it was inevitable that there should
be some awkwardness. But neither of us
knew what we were doing, or had any notion
what it might lead to. Don't speak of it
said Iris, with a shiver ; ' I cannot talk of it
yet.'

Just let me say one thing : if I had been
in your place, and she had done it to me  I
suppose she would all the same ; I think she
wanted Sir William to have me if he could
not have you  and if I had quarrelled with
King Lud, and he had come to hear the
garbled story  oh ! Iris, Iris, I should have
been lost. My dear, my dear, I ought to go
down on my knees to thank you, and I do
thank you with all my heart.'

 I know it, and it is some comfort to have
served you.'

/ At your own expense ! Oh ! I must do
something for you  not that I can ever repay
you, but to prevent your being a scapegoat
for me. If not, I shall break my heart for

having brought you into such trouble, and
he will never forgive me after all, for he
is as fond of you as if you were one of his
sisters.'

Don't speak of it,' Iris repeated imploringly.


It drives me wild when I think I have
been deceived,' confessed Marianne ingenuously,
after another pause ; ' not that you
deceived me  at least, you could not help
it. But I wonder if it was all a piece
of imagination on my part  it is better to
know the truth, though it will make me
ashamed  that Sir William liked me a

little r

I am sure he liked you very much,' said
Iris promptly ; * you were so bright, you made
him chaff you and laugh with you as I never
saw him do with anyone else. You know
he is rather silent and serious for a young
man.'

Yes,' said Marianne doubtfully ; * but I
thought he sometimes looked at me sadly, as
well as kindly, as if he would like to take
care of me  you know what I mean  I daresay
he pitied me. He knew granny of old,
and he thought I was not in very good

hands, and he might be a better protector ;
but that would have been a great mistake
shaking her head, ' and I believe he was
thinking of his old love, his true love, yesterday
when I brought you to him. A great
glow came into his face  I was looking more
at King Lud, naturally, but I saw it ; and
don't you remember he said " I will," as if his
heart was in his mouth ? I felt it at the
time with a sense of something odd, though
it went out of my head the next moment.
Could he have fancied for an instant that the
scene was real % Then what a temptation to
him granny's behaviour must have been !
Dearest Iris, can the jest not become earnest,
and you two friends be as happy as King Lud
and I shall be some day 1' cried Marianne,
clasping her hands on her knees and leaning
over to her cousin.

 For shame's sake, don't talk such nonsense,
Marianne !' said Iris, with asperity at
last. ' You know I offered myself to him,
though it was in compliance with your foolish
arrangement  not mine. You ought to be
aware that there is no foundation for your
suggestion ;' and Marianne was silenced for
once.

The girls arrived in time for the train,
and Lady Fermor had so far recovered that
she was on the platform. She looked them
over, then spoke to Iris with an effrontery
which was almost without parallel.

So you have taken us in, Iris,' she said
lightly and airily, with a double meaning
in her words, and yet as if nothing had
happened.

It gave her grand-daughter strength to
assert herself.

You have not kept your promise to me.
Lady Fermor,' Iris said. ' You might have
told me that you wished to get rid of me,
and I should have gone away honourably, as
I did before. I shall go away again as soon
as I can.'

Without asking my leave, no doubt V
exclaimed her ladyship, raising her eyebrows.


I did ask your leave, and now I may take
it for granted.'

As you will, Miss Compton. I am too
old to parley with you.'

It was a silent party  down to Marianne
Dugdale  that travelled across the grey
Border moors, through the more fertile portion

of Dumfriesshire, up to the heathery hills
of Annandale.

When the train drew up in the Moffat
Station, honos shadows were falUnof across the
platform ; but Iris, who sat by the nearest
door, distinguished a well-known fissure in
the shadow, and drew back aghast. Sir
William Thwaite had come on from Dumfries,
and was standing like a sentinel on
duty  with only a heightened colour to indicate
any trace of discomposure  prepared to
hand the party out.

You here, Thwaite V cried Lady Fermor,
in loud challenge. ' Well, we've been playing
at cross-purposes, it seems ; but it is
lucky that we have shaken ourselves right,
come together, and all turned up at our
destination. Have you made any inquiry
about the moor  whether the birds are shy
or not V

He had no reply for her, beyond helping her
carefully out of the carriage and leading her
away. By that time Iris understood what his
change of plans meant. His presence there
as well as hers was best for making everything
be as it had been, and for putting out of mind
the mauvais quart dlieure which had intervened.

If he had not come immediately, and
the two had not met again without delay, she
felt as if their re-encountering each other
would have been intolerable. Now it was
still so much a matter of course, and the
true gloss was so impressed on an idle farce,
that before he parted from them in the lobby
of the hotel, Iris could go up to him in the
presence of Lady Fermor, Marianne, and
Soames, and gently return to him his little
packet, saying :

 Thank you very much, Sir William ; you
see I have not needed your loan.'

A SUITOR.

For the next few days the party returned to
their former habits, Sir William not availing
himself immediately of his right to constitute
a gun ' on a neighbouring moor.

The sole evidence that there had been any
disturbance of the company's tranquillity remained
in a certain constraint which clung
about their intercourse, a disinclination to
allude to their halt on the Borders, and an
utter avoidance of a topic which had been
much discussed before.

Yet the forbidden topic cropped up occasionally,
even without Lady Fermor's instrumentality.
When the ladies and their squire
were strolling about the streets of the little
town, and had come back to the street in
which their comfortable old inn was situated,
some conjecture was hazarded about its age.

Marianne Dugdale predicted they would not
find an old inn in Scotland of a later creation
than Prince Charlie's time. A respectable
tradesman passing by, and catching the tenor
of the conversation, took it upon him to
supply the date and oblige the party with a
gratuitous piece of information.

Auld Lord Dundonald the great sailor,
came on here with his bride after their runaway'
marriage. Ye may mind the marriage was
disputed in a court of law after Tarn
Cochrane had bidden a long farewell, faith
to his honours and his disgrace, and my
teddy was a bitter-tongued, weedow woman,
driven, pair soul, to fecit faith for and
against her ain sons.'

The folly is in the air said Lady Fermor
sarcastically ; ' shall we consult your safety,
Thwaite, and flee back to England ?'

I do not know myself in any danger, my
lady,' said the person addressed, stiffly and
sternly, while Marianne talked fast to Iris
of climbing the hill behind the town, which
was somehow connected with hanging and
the gallows.

It was not the anticipation of the exercise
which deepened to a painful scarlet the rose

in the delicately tinted face, and then drained
the colour away before a sudden pallor. It
was the sense of unmerited humiliation and
affront, and a terrified recollection of Jeannie
the maid at the Border inn's warning with
regard to the slow, steady, poisonous scandal
that might distil, drop by drop, through
generations, and break out with fatal virulence
in the far future.

Still, whether to drown care and escape
unpleasant recollections, the younger members
of the party were as indefatigable as
ever in their business of sight-seeing. They
walked, rode, and drove to the pretty mineral
well in its nook among the hills, to ' lone St.
Mary's Loch,' with its silver strand, where
the images of Scott and Hogg and Wordsworth
for the moment effaced all private
phantoms, to the spot where Tweed, Clyde,
and Anna are near akin in their origin, to
the weird lichen-covered oaks of Loch wood,
like trees of another world, to the colossal
screen hollow known as  the Devil's Beef-tub,'
to ' fair Kirkconnel Lea,' the scene of
the most wildly tragic and deeply pathetic of
Scotch ballads, which greatly took the young
people's fancy. To them the Helen who interposed

between her lover and his murderous
rival and received the shot destined for another
in her own tender bosom, was the
truest of heroines, so that English strangers
of another generation could echo from the
heart that unspeakably fond and piteous
lament :

Oh ! would I were where Helen lies,
For night and day on me she cries ;
Oh ! would I were where Helen lies,
On fair Kirkconnel Lea.'

On the little company's return from one of
their excursions they were amazed to find the
big body, big face, and sandy moustache of
King Lud in the man who was standing
smoking and looking out for them at the inn
door.

He had done more than keep his word.
He had spoken of seeing them again before
he sailed ; but that was comparatively a
vague prospect ; he had said nothing of returning
so soon to make up their party and
finish their excursion. He looked solemn in
answer to the gay banter which Marianne
Dugdale, after an instant of silent delight,
was able to rain upon him.

 Were all your friends from home, Mr.



Acton ? Has your ship sailed without you ?
Did you think we should be robbed and murdered
without the protection of your doughty
arm in the old land of Border rivers ? I
could do better than that if I tried  like the
duchess in Wonderland, I could make myself
picturesquely charming", and come-over the
Scotch loons with my soft English tongue

Iris, whose nerves had been thoroughly
shaken, was divided between two sources of
apprehension. Had Ludovic Acton taken it
into his head to institute inquiries, read up
information, and somehow discovered for himself
the dangerous nature of their late entertainment,
and had he come all the way from
the Kectory, during the small amount of
leave that was likely to remain to him, to put
her on her guard, to volunteer his evidence,
and to save everybody from sorrow and injury
?

Sometimes Iris was driven to believe that
if the step could be taken without further
publicity, the greatest safety for all might lie
in a deposition made before a magistrate,
which even Lady Fermor ought to sign.
The next moment Iris was tempted to think
that she was mains a mountain out of a

mole-hill, and grossly exaggerating a trifle
which would never be called in question. If
Ludovic did not mean to act as a mediator,
was his mother worse ? and, if so, why had he
quitted her ?

The first time the old friends were alone
for a few minutes, King Lud cleared up the
mystery, his manner presenting a nice blending
of sheepishness and burning anxiety. He
had got his promotion ; he was now a captain
in her Majesty's navy, with his appointment
to a ship a matter of days. But before these
days were ended he must avail himself of his
promotion to bring to a close the suspense
which, he maintained, was worse than sharks,
icebergs, and torpedoes all taken together.

Of course he could not run away with
Marianne Dugdale, though they were in
Scotland. He was so bent on his narrative
that he did not notice how Iris winced at the
dry joke. Neither could the most sanguine
man in his profession have hoped to marry
her before sailing. Even a middy who was
not particular might have found a difficulty
in getting up his kit so instantaneously as
that otherwise delectable step implied.

Miss Dugdale could not do without her

trousseau. Besides, he loved her too well to
hurry and harass her ; if ever woman deserved
to be patiently and loyally waited for she deserved
it. But if Miss Dugdale, and her
friends for her, would condescend to have
anything to say to him, would consent to an
engagement, he did not think, unless she was
less freshly simple and modest in her tastes,
less nobly and gloriously unworldly, than he
believed her to be, that the eno'aoement need
be very long.

He could show flattering letters from some
of the swells of the Admiralty and good-natured
commendations from his old commanders,
which he had never so much as
given to the family at home to read and exult
over, because, naturally, his people would
think a great deal too much of such bosh, and
he hated bounce and palaver. It would bethe
first time that he had counted on them as
any good, if they would satisfy Marianne
Dugdale and her friends of what he thought
he could venture to engage, that a fair, steady
rise in his profession lay before him.

He had not let the grass grow beneath his
feet. Modest, retiring Kino Lud, under the
influence of the great passion of his young

VOL. III. 56

manhood, had already rushed down to Devonshire,
introduced himself to Mr. Dugdale,
and interviewed him. The spick-and-span
captain had explained his not too elevated
but hopeful position, and requested the
father's permission to address his eldest
daughter.

The poor gentleman was neither propitious
nor unpropitious. He was engrossed with his
own affairs, to which the marriage of one of
his daughters belonged certainly, but only ina
subsidiary degree. Engulfed in the bottomless
swamp of agricultural difficulties,
Mr. Dugdale saw no light upon his future
beyond a will-of-the-wispish expectation from
his brother in India, who, though he was a
mighty personage in his sphere, had so many
sons of his own, that he might well decline to
adopt another family. Young Acton might
end by becoming a rear-admiral, when
Marianne would have done very well for herself.
Even if he stopped short with being a
commodore he was not to be despised. Nay,
a naval captain's pittance did uot mean such
starvation to a small family as a country
gentleman's reduced rents from an estate
groaning under a burden of mortgages, threatened

ruin to the head of the house with his
helpless wife and daughters. The officer and
his wife would begin housekeeping with only
a couple of mouths to fill, while Mr. Dugdale
had nearly half-a-dozen to satisfy.

On the other hand, what had the dowager
Lady Fermor to say on the matter ? By
making a marriage displeasing to the late
Lord Fermor's testatrix she might be lost
not only to Marianne, but to the whole
family of Dugdale.

Mr. Dugdale had a natural affection for his
daughter ; but he could not afford the sacrifice.
In the end the easier suitor was referred
to his father's prodigal parishioner.

This sentence filled Kinoff Lud with chain
well-nigh hopelessness.

I know she has other views for her granddaughter,'
he groaned in Iris's ear ; ' and she
is rio'ht so far, that Marianne Duofdale deserves
the best match in the kino-dom  or a
throne, if it would make her happier. Do
you think there is the slightest chance for mein
applying to the old lady V

Iris could not in sincerity say she had an
exalted opinion of his chance in that quarter ;
but she managed to remark with some 



dignity she did not think Lady Fermor had
any definite designs at present for the disposal
of Marianne.

There is Thwaite alleged King Lud
gloomily, ' almost a member of the family.
He has been its cavalier ever since Lady
Fermor and Miss Dugdale came up to
town.'

Had King Lud forgotten that Sir William
had been the favourite cavalier at Lambford
long before Marianne Dugdale showed her
face there ? Was the young fellow blinded
by his own feelings ? Had his mind contracted
; had he, in fact, no mind to spare for
any interest before and after Marianne Dug-dale's
appearance on the scene ? It was
clear that he had heard nothing of the sequel
to the Border play in which he had taken
part  nor was he likely to hear, Iris was
thankful to think, unless his relations to the
family became very intimate.

There would be disgusting advantages
in that match,' King Lud bemoaned himself


But Marianne is not mercenary Iris reminded
him.

 Of course not ; her dear vagaries, her

sweet waywardness and irresistible originality
are all utterly destitute of mercenariness.'


Iris laughed and nodded : it was comical
to her to hear Kino* Lud, who had been wont
to take things easy, by his own confession
violently in love.

But Thwaite himself is a good fellow, for
all that has come and gone. I always liked
him. If he made a great mistake, went
wrong and smarted for it, he has come
honourably through a lengthened probation
since then. She is just the generous girl to
long to make up to him for what he has
suffered, to glory in overlooking his small
deficiencies, and be willing to risk herself to
keep him straight. No,' said Ludovic Acton
in dolefully magnanimous self-depreciation,
I cannot pretend to Thwaite's advantages
in any respect. Why, even in the matter of
looks, he has it all on his side. He is a comely,
well - drilled lout, while I'm a whey - faced,
moon-faced  you can't deny, Iris, she has
compared my face to the moon !  clumsy sea-lubber.'


Iris laughed till the tears came into her
eves ; she wanted so much to comfort and

encourage him without breaking faith, and
without buoying him up with false hopes
where Lady Fermor was concerned.

I think I may say if grand mamma has
not entirely given up contemplating White-hills
as a possible establishment for Marianne,
she has not been looking at it in that light
very lately

Oh, thank you. Iris ; you are a good soul.
I don't wonder that Marianne adores you
said Ludovic as gratefully as if Iris had gone
far to secure to him the passionately coveted
boon. * Only Marianne might spare a little
common civility to a fellow who adores
her.

" Although she is forced to dissemble her love,
Why need she kick him downstairs T '

Have patience,' Iris told him.  Do they
know at the Rectory ? What does Lucy
think 1 What does the Rector say ? Is the
mother pleased V

She feared that even in King Lud's case
the new love might have so eclipsed the old
as to cause him to fail those who had so
long held the first claims on him. It was
balm to her gentle, faithful heart to hear

him say, with such ready confidence that
it was clear he had not guessed her suspicion
:

Oh, my people are as good as gold, as
usual. They say, if my happiness is concerned,
that is everything. They are only
longing to make her acquaintance. What a
fool I am to speak of her as if she were certainly
mine ! They hardly saw anything of
her before she went to town with Lady
Fermor. I can depend upon them doing
everything they can to befriend her when I
am away

Happy man ! at least you have acted
on the most manly, straightforward principles,
and whatever comes of it, you will
have the comfort of that reflection,' said Iris
warmly.

But the newly-made captain did not see
what else he could have done, therefore it
looked as if, in the result of failure, he would
miss even the small consolation of an approving
conscience. It was left for his old
friend Iris to take the assurance that Kinoff
Lud's behaviour had been worthy of himself,
and that in one way or another his reward
would not fail him.

The reward was more and more according
to his heart than Iris or anyone else would
have dared to hope. Strange to say, Lady
Fermor did not oppose the engagement,
beyond saying that she thought it as foolish
as such contracts usually were. But if the
young pair chose to enter into this one, she
would not interfere. She craved leave to inform
Captain Acton, in case of awkward
mistakes, that her grand-daughter, Marianne
Dugdale, would have no more money from
her than a couple of hundred pounds to buy
her trousseau, if she ever needed one, and
perhaps another couple of hundreds to buy
her mourning on the death of the speaker.
She had never intended to give Marianne
more, unless on a contingency of which
there had ceased to be any possibility.
She would write to Mr. Dugdale to this
effect.

Such a communication, however disappointing
to the unfortunate landowner, was a
virtual withdrawal of all opposition to the
engagement. The truth was, that Lady
Fermor did not believe in engagements,
short or long, and never had cared a straw
for Marianne Dugdale, except as a living toy

to amuse the old lady, and an instrument of
vengeance upon Iris Compton.

Kinoff Lud was free to address his mistress,
yet even the freedom might have had a
disastrous issue but for recent events, and
the knowledge that the suitor would sail and
very likely be in another hemisphere within
the month. If there were any elements of
character in common between Lady Fermor
and Marianne Dugdale, the old and the
young woman were totally unlike in this,
that what the former counted on  correctly
as far as her own instincts went  as certain
sources of the dissolution of the engagement,
formed the best conditions not merely for
its present attainment, but for its permanent
safety, where Marianne Dugdale had to do
with it.

A lover far away, in peril of water and of
deadly foreign climates even in times of
peace, in the monotony and deprivations of
an officer's duties on board ship, on a long
cruise with only her word to rely on, her love
and constancy to defend his cause, was likely
to prove a far more formidable, irresistible
wooer to Marianne Dugdale, a far surer pretender
to her hand after years of separation,

than he would have been had he figured asa
man endowed with many of the good things
of fortune, dangling at her elbow, pleading
his claims every day.

Marianne was taken unawares. She
laughed and pouted, and even cried a little,
as if she were a very ill-used little person ;
then suddenly threw down her arms and
surrendered at discretion, making no terms,
beyond the right of teasing King Lud, which
the infatuated fellow was only too content,
according to ancient example, to let her do.
Even this remnant of power was in danger of
being wrested from her grasp, every time his
approaching departure crossed her mind and
clouded over the whole universe to her.
When Marianne began to hate post-time,
and to shiver at the reading out of naval
intelligence, her season of maidenly haughtiness
and defiance was well-nigh over. The
Lady of the Lea ' was practically vanquished.


It was something to see a good fellow and
an innocent child so radiantly happy as those
two, though his lapsing leave was to subdue
their happiness long before the summer had
ended ; to know mortals so blest, though

the curse which heralded the ejection from
Eden was dogging their steps. The roan
and woman would soon quit the garden, but
their love would help them in the struggle
with the thorns and thistles of earth, and
make it easier for them to find the strait
gate and narrow way which lead to a nobler
and more enduring Paradise. Lady Fermor
called the pair a couple of lunatics ; but Iris
caught herself and Sir William regarding the
two with the mild, patient benignity of true
guardians and sponsors.

There was no evidence of resentment on
Sir William's part on account of his faintly
and fitfully foreshadowed office of 'guide,
philosopher, and friend ' to Marianne Dug-dale
being filched from him. If a kind of
wistful look came into his blue eyes at times,
it did not interfere with the perfect cordiality
of his congratulations to Kinoff Lud and the
young lady, and she received such demonstrations
better from him than from anyone else,
Iris not excepted.

It seemed as if nothing were to be wanting
to the happiness of the lovers. King Lud
had been proudly and affectionately desirous
that, if it could be managed, Marianne should

go on a visit to the Rectory before he got his
sailing: orders. Included in the desire was
the natural longing to take leave of her in
his father's house, and to consign her under
the ordeal to the tender keeping of those
who would be sharing her sorrow with
her.

Even this wish was granted. Lady Fer-mor
became complacent to an almost alarming
extent ; Marianne might go since she had
got her father's permission. The old lady
even volunteered to render the project more
feasible by sending Soames to chaperon the
lovers, and bring back some articles of dress
which Soames's mistress wished her maid to
get from Lady Fermor's wardrobe at Lamb-ford.


So this idol disappeared from the contemplation
of the edified spectators at Moffat,
and anything more they were to learn of it,
in the meantime, must be from letters 
Marianne's hurried but highly appreciative
announcement of her safe arrival and good
reception ; Lucy Acton's kind, if more composed
and modified reports. Yes, Marianne
was a dear girl, and it was delightful to see
King Lud so exultant ; who could resist it ?

Her father and mother, not to say Lucy herself,
might have preferred another choice on
Ludovic's part; but without question the
principals in the compact were entitled to
follow their inclinations so long as these were
perfectly lawful. Marriages were made in
heaven, and she thought  nay, she was sure,
Ludovic's would prove a happy marriage in
all essentials.

Marianne was original and a little wilful.
She had found a broken mouse-trap, which
had exercised her spirit a good deal. She
had sent the children to fetch all the mousetraps
in the house to be inspected by her, and
had set about mending them on the spot, so
that Gerald was her chum from that moment.
She had insisted, and carried her point, that
she could repair the hinge of the gate without
the aid of the smith. She had taken the
Rector quite by surprise when he found her
engaged on the job.

He had always been so fond of womanly
softness and domesticity  apart from parish
work  and so horrified by women's clamouring
for equality with men, just because he
would, of his own free will, defer to every
woman worthy of the name, and pay her

homage, which was surely a great deal better
than treating her as his equal. However,
Marianne had assured him that though she
liked to be her own smith and carpenter, she
did not think she had a vocation for stump
oratory. She would never propose to do
anything save sit in the Kectory pew and let
him fill his own pulpit.

After that explanation, Marianne had got
round the Rector by looking out his sermons
for him, and practising the hymns he liked
best in order to help the choir in church.
She had objected to advanced arithmetic
behoof so little taught in the school, and had
proposed to introduce mathematics ; and
though Lucy was convinced Marianne was
wrong in the last proposal, she daresay the
reformer might be right in the first. Lucy
had come to think so since Marianne had
been of the greatest use to Mrs. Acton in
making up her subscription books  Marianne
had done it so cleverly, and rendered
every sum so beautifully clear and without a
mistake in five minutes.

She had won all the hearts of her children
  of the boys especially  at the school-feast.
As for the curates, she saved her, Lucy, an

immense amount of trouble ; for Marianne
could twist them round her finger, and did
so without once provoking King Lud to
jealousy.

Yes, they all liked dear Ludovic's future
Avise very much, and Lucy was convinced
that, though there mioht be a little hitch
here and there  as where was there not inhuman
relations ?  still the family circle into
which the stranger had entered, instead of
being divided into hostile factions with the
members set against each other by her means,
would continue as united and attached as
ever.

It was plain the Actons were behaving
well, as might have been expected from
them. They were making the best of their
son and brother's engagement to Marianne
Duodale, and so taking the wisest course
to preserve his and their dignity and happiness


Iris could not help smiling a little at the
Rector's little discomfiture. She thought of
what his similes must have been  of the lily
which his sailor boy had been permitted to
gather and wear in his breast ; of the dove
which was not frightened to nestle in his

blue jacket, and would fly in spirit with him
over many a league of sea, to abide with him
in calm and tempest, till he should return to
redeem his pledge. Then Iris pictured how
the worthy man must have been taken aback
when he came upon Marianne in her blouse
and the nearest approach to a leather apron
she could improvise, hammering away like
another Jael, with her chubby hands soiled
as Jael's need not have been  and perhaps
a smut on Marianne's face ; or when he must
entertain a rueful suspicion that the east
wind had got into his future daughter-in-law's
temper, and that both she and her neighbours
must suffer a fair share of discomfort
till the mat d'humeur was by some means
routed.

But Iris could also rejoice that her old
friends were vindicating what she had long
known of their virtues. She could be ungrudgingly
glad that Marianne was to have
everything in her favour, every chance of
developing into a good woman : an early
engagement to a fine fellow in the best sense
of the words, the hearty support of all his
friends as well as of her own, an absence
which in its nature could only make the warm

heart grow fonder, and in all probability a
happy marriage the next time King Lud
came home.

How strange it is, when all is said, that
without reference to merit, so much of
earthly sunshine, peace, and smooth sailing
is granted to some, while to others is given
an equal amount of the shadow of death,
trouble, and a stormy passage through life !
Yet could Iris take upon her to say, that
the first who received all the smiles and none
of the frowns of fortune  so called  were
really the favoured and honoured voyagers,
instead of those who grew strong by many a
tussle with winds and waves, and came in at
last, battered, but with their colours flying, to
the haven where they would be 1

VOL. III. 57

FALSE SEEMING.



Dating as nearly as possible contemporaneously
with the departure of Ludovic Acton
and his promised wife under the staid wing
of Soames, there began for Iris one of the
strangest experiences of her tried life. She
was alone with Lady Fermor and Sir William
Thwaite. Lady Fermor continued in
the blandest mood. Whether she were seeking
to atone for her late outrage, whether she
were ' fey according to the old Norse superstition,
and her last days had come, there
could be no question of her indulgence to her
grand-daughter and her kindness to Sir
William, even when they crossed her will and
thwarted her plans.

But along with the old lady's bluff good-humour
there commenced to peep out an
inference drawn by Lady Fermor which was

almost intangible in its expression at first.
But the suggestion grew always more overpowering
and all-pervading, while it could
not be boldly repelled, because it was never
distinctly stated. It was a subtle, entangling,
bewildering implication, leading to a spirit of
perturbation and confusion on the part of
those who could not deny what was not
charged against them. They feared so much
as to admit the hint, lest the faintest whisper
of its existence should lend tangibility
to the light material and afford a basis for a
whole towering edifice of doubt and suspicion.


Lady Fermor had boasted that no one
should be able to say she had not taken care
of her grand daughter's morals and manners.
Having been an unscrupulous evil-doer in
her own day, she was all the more alive to
avoiding the very appearance of evil in her
descendant. Her grandmother had therefore
insisted on strict decorum for Iris Compton
from her childhood. Suddenly the old lady
relaxed her rule. She treated the two young
people, who were still with her, as if they
were a couple of children, or the nearest
relations. She would have sent them out, in

572

the intervals of Sir William's sport, on the
longest tete-astute rambles and riding excursions
without so much as a groom to bear
them company. When, because of the unaccustomed
nature of the liberty extended to
them, they were instinctively shy of it and
of each other, she chid them gaily for not
availing themselves of their privileges, as if
they abstained from them entirely on her
account.

You two '  she had got to coupling them
together continually  are a great deal too
considerate. It ain't in me to be a kill-joy,
but you make me ashamed, though I must
confess that it is a failing T am not given
to indulging in. Why should you not have
your good time as well as others ? Don't let
me interfere with you.'

Lady Fermor had naturally her special
seat in her own window of the drawing-room,
and she took to barricading herself in it with
screens, cushions, foot-stools, and little tables
for her various refreshments  biscuits, fruits,
wine, tea, as her habits and the hour required.
She had always been sufficient for herself,
but she appeared to be becoming impatient,
even of the company of a young man of her

own choosing, and to be contracting a passion
for solitude.

You can keep to your own window. You
must have a great deal to talk about  young
couples always have. Old people have done
with everything save thinking, and that, too,
goes, I suppose, so that there is only sensation
left, poor creatures that we are I But
say your say while you have it to do, and
want to be out with it ; never mind me, I
shan't hear a syllable at this distance.'

While the party had been travelling. Lady
Fermor had resigned the head of the table to
one of her grand-daughters, but she had left
the foot vacant. Now she elected that Sir
William should play the host opposite Iris as
the hostess. And Lady Fermor told them to
their faces, in the most innocent manner
possible, so that they felt themselves behaving
foolishly to blush, that they became their
relative positions and discharged their respective
duties admirably.

Iris did her best to supply Soames's place
in the maid's temporary absence, and was
often alone with her grandmother in her bedroom.
On these occasions Lady Fermor was
even ostentatious in professing her entire

satisfaction with Iris's efforts to serve her,
which grew bungling, from sheer astonishment
and trepidation at the gracious forbearance
with which the girl's worst blunders
were borne, and the praise indiscriminately
awarded to the whole performance.

I am very much obliged to you, child,
you are too attentive ; but I ought not to
keep you from other duties.'

Grandmamma, you are laughing at me,'
cried Iris in desperation.  What duties
have I in comparison with the obligation to
wait upon you, if you will let me ? I know I
do it very badly, but I hope to improve, and
become a proficient abigail by the time
Soames comes back.'

'You undervalue yourself far too much.
It is a bad practice, which you must not let
grow upon you, else people will be sure to
take advantage of it. There are plenty of
forward, encroaching persons to be met with
everywhere ; more than that, excessive humility,
which is often affectation, does not suit
your station in life. You ought to remember
your catechism about 'the station to which
you are called," and think of what you owe
to others besides indulging your own inclinations.

There now,' said Lady Fermor, after
Iris had enveloped her grandmother in her
dressing-gown and removed her wig, replacing
it by one of the exploded nightcaps,
which are only in vogue to shelter the bald
pates of octogenarians, * go down and entertain
William.'

Lately Lady Fermor had taken to dropping
the ' Thwaite ' and the ' Sir ' before the
Christian name, in speaking apart with Iris
of the Squire of Whitehills. The new habit
smote upon Iris's ears with a peculiarly
familiar home-like effect; when the name
was coupled with a dogmatic recommendation
to ' entertain ' its bearer, Iris's breath was
taken away. She was not even fit to meet
the cool command with the calm assurance
that Sir William could entertain himself; if
not, he must be the sufferer ; she was not
bound to step in to his rescue. She did not
say it, but she failed to return to the drawing-room
; she retired to her own room, and put
her hands before her face.

At the same time neither Iris nor Sir
William could resent mere insinuations,
which after all might owe the most of their
significance to what might have become

their morbid self-consciousness, and troubled
fancies. She knew as well as if she had
heard it what would have been her grandmother's
answer if she, Iris, had protested
against the inference cunningly drawn. Lady
Fermor would have cried in the height of incredulous
astonishment, * Child, what did I
say ? What could you think was my meaning
'?' and an explanation of what Iris might
have thought, as it appeared unjustifiably reviving
all the horrible mischief that had been
set at rest, was too dreadful for a delicate-minded
girl to face without the utmost necessity
for the encounter.

Iris seriously revolved the alarming doubt
if her grandmother's mind were giving way
at last, when one day, on two occasions, both
when the ladies were sitting by themselves,
and when Sir William was with them, Lady
Fermor did what she had once done before
on paper, addressed Iris as ' Lady Thwaite.'
What is your opinion of the weather. Lady
Thwaite ?' ' Lady Thwaite, have you seen
the birds in Sir William's bag ?'

Iris did not answer. She reserved what
meteorological opinion she had, and whether
she had enjoyed the spectacle referred to.

she only looked down with startled dismay
and shifting colour. She could not have
raised her eyes to meet Sir William's for the
world.

The incorrectly applied title might have
proceeded from a lapse of memory in an old
woman, though Lady Fermor hitherto had
not been liable to such lapses. Anyhow she
did not show that she had observed her mistake
by calling herself back or apologising
for it. Her sole comment on Iris's dead
silence on both occasions was by repeating
her inquiries with a little impatience, without
again naming the person spoken to. * Did
you hear me ? What is your opinion of the
weather ?' ' Have you seen Sir William's
grouse V

If the misapplication of the name were
not a slip of the tongue, if taking them along
with other indications they formed an index
that Lady Fermor's once acute and powerful
though neither fine nor cultivated intellect,
and clear steady brains were, as she had predicted,
losing their edge, becoming clouded
over, even reeling on their throne, the shape
the disorder of her faculties had taken would
not be at all wonderful. It would be almost

natural that the first of a throng of coming
delusions should point to her conviction of
the accomplishment of a scheme on which
she had so set her imperious will that one of
her last rational acts  if it could be called
rational  had been to seek to establish an
unpardonable fraud by coercing the victims
to submit to it, and ratify it, out of shame
and terror for a woman's good name.

But what could Iris do in the case ? She
was left for a week alone, save for Sir
William Thwaite, with her grandmother, far
from home  viewing distance in the light of
Lady Fermor's age and infirmities, in a little
Scotch town, which was almost like a foreign
watering-place to a girl so little travelled in
these travelling days.

It was a new vague danger to be dreaded,
along with the constant miserable embarrassment
to be endured.

Iris could hardly say how much Sir
William Thwaite was struck or what he felt.
It was impossible to consult him on the point.
Once he had betrayed every emotion of his
soul in his face as in a mirror. Further
experience of life had taught him to wear a
mask to some extent ; but in the course of

the last few days the mask had fallen occasionally,
though only with the effect of
electrifying and baffling the beholder more
completely. For the shifting expression was,
after all, more perplexing than any steadiness
of impenetrability. Was Iris, as well as her
grandmother, losing her senses, when the girl
asked herself which was Sir William's true
look, and which exhibited his real state of
mind  the bluff impassiveness which he
generally kept up, or the glimpses of passion
checked in its display, yet with tokens of
such profoundness as belonged to the depths
of the man's nature 1

The very material world around Iris ; the
old-fashioned inn to which Thomas Cochrane
and his young wife had come after their runaway
marriage ; the braes over which the old
moss-troopers had sped in many a moonlight
foray, which had sometimes included a disconsolate
bride snatched aloncr with her Hvino-
dowry of lowing kine and bleating sheep
from the Kentish side of the border : the
holiday watering-place among the hills, with
the holiday company in which were various
specimens of lovers, and no lack of newly-wedded
pairs come to spend their simple

honeymoon  all began to assume an unreal,
sympathetic, or mocking aspect to Iris. The
strain was becoming too hard for her. She
said to herself, with despairing deliberation,
she could not bear it much longer. Her
grandmother, if she had been in her right
mind, had been very wicked to bring such
trouble upon two people who had never
wronged her, one of whom was her own flesh
and blood. She, Iris, must do what she could
to prevent the leaven working till it had
leavened the whole lump of her own life and
that of another ; so soon as Soames returned,
the girl would go away as she had gone
before, to return no more to Lady Fermor or
to Lambford. King Lud would be gone,
and Marianne Dugdale ought to come back
for a time  it was but right for her to pay
her small part of the penalty  or one of Iris's
remaining cousins might take her place.

She would tell no one of her departure
this time. She had said to Lady Fermor she
would not, and her grandmother had forfeited
every right to Iris's confidence. She would
be less willing than ever to compromise the
Actons together with Marianne Dugdale ;
and to imply that any other person had a

right to the knowledge of what Iris was
going to do, would be virtually to lend her
countenance to the nebulous tie to which she
was eager to put an end. She was to bea
runaway twice over, but never a runaway
bride. She felt she would rather die than
tempt Sir William Thwaite to believe she had
been willing to appropriate her share of the
role which had been imposed upon them both.
She would go to Mrs. Haigh, and if she
could not receive her, she might find a place
for Iris, safe, however humble. She would
work her fingers to the bone and her eyes till
they were blind in their sockets, to maintain
herself in honest, honourable independence ;
beyond that nothing signified.

The haggard, hunted, scared look was
stealing into Iris Compton's little face again,
and, glancing into her mirror, she knew she
looked old for her years. In addition, she
felt she was old  old to indifference and hopelessness
for this life, though not for the life
to come, and that was her one great ground
for thankfulness, which kept her heart from
breaking. Iris could not realise that the
youth was only beaten down, not trampled
out of her, that it was possible for it to

revive and blossom like the rose, that ten
years hence she might be counting herself
still a young woman having a bountiful future
before her, with a grateful, cheerful heart.

Iris's purpose was deferred by Soames's
protracted absence. Lady Fermor did not
grudge it ; in fact she was at the bottom
of the delay. She had caused a journey
which might have been accomplished in less
than twenty-four hours, to be broken by a
halt of half as many days. She was lengthening
the halt by keeping Soames at Lamb-ford
executing commission after commission
for her mistress at Knotley, Birkett, and
Cavesham, commissions sent to Soames at
the rate of half-a-dozen fresh orders every
morning. Iris did not believe it was Soames's
fault that these could not be executed with
the rapidity of a flash of lightning. The girl
gave the woman credit for fretting over the
length of her holiday. The all-powerful
attraction of the annuity must be drawing
the waiting-maid back, with all that robust
strength of self-interest which has been
allowed to grow without restraint for many a
year. But Iris could wait  all the more
easily in the end, that Sir William had gone

away on an unexplained errand which was to
last a day, but detained him for a couple of
days. Lady Fermor extended her afternoon
drive on both days so that she might finish by
taking the station on her way home and there
awaiting: her friend's return. Iris told herself
that she wished he might not return at all
during her stay at Moflfat, and she thought
the wish must have looked out at him
from her eyes when he did appear, and Lady
Fermor was callings to him  careless who
might hear hers that he was a naughty man
to put her to the trouble of bringing ;Iris
twice to the station to fetch him back to the
inn. For after he had driven home with
them, assisted Lady Fermor to alight, and
handed her over to the landlady and her subordinates,
he detained Iris for a moment
behind her grandmother, to say, with an
undercurrent of vexation and reproach in his
voice,  I will go abroad and stay there, Miss
Compton, if you wish it  jou need fear no
annoyance from me ; you have but to say the
word ; I should be gone already, were it not
that you are alone with Lady Fermor.'

That was her own motive for delay, she reflected
with an undefined, unreasonable sense

of bitterness. Well, perhaps it was better
they should understand each other thoroughly.
But she only said  gently, as she imagined,
with a chilling rejection of any privilege of
standing by her, as he thought, but in truth
she hardly knew what she said :

 Don't let any consideration with regard
to grand mamma or me interfere with your
arrangements. Sir William ; we shall do very
well. You can see we have managed perfectly
for ourselves during these two days ;
besides Soames will turn up presently.'

THE WRONG ROOM.

The mail from the south had come in and
Iris had left Sir William reading the newspapers
to her grandmother and gone out fora
solitary walk. She wanted to walk far and
fast till she was wholesomely tired from bodily
fatigue, to be braced by the strong north
country air, and to have the moorland wind
blow away the cobwebs which had lodged
in her brain, were stifling her common-sense,
and torturing her nerves. She had climbed
the hill Marianne had spoken of one of
those hills which, so far as general resemblance
and a name in common go, are
appendages to various towns in Scotland,
being memorials of the last gruesome scene
of all which followed the exercise of the jurisdiction
of a baron's court.

The hill was fair to see in its autumn
VOL. III. 58

garniture, and retained no brand of gallows
and hangings. It was the object of one of
the favourite walks of the place. Marianne
had climbed it, but with King Lud in place
of Iris for her companion, in a spirit of faithlessness
which other maidens have shown
before her, and will show to the end of time.
Indeed, according to the law of natural selection,
such hills are an approved resort for
persons in the particular relation which
seemed to flourish abundantly, at least in
Iris's distempered eyes, at the little watering
place.

Perhaps the old naval hero and his
runaway bride had climbed the tolerably
steep ascent with nimble feet in their day.
If so his glorious deeds and the fame which
has survived and blotted out his shame might
have formed a fitting topic for the other
captain bold  save for King Lud's inveterate
modesty  to enlarge upon to his mistress, just
as the sea king's escapade on shore, with its
grievous consequences, haunted Iris with
threats and forebodings. Had that old-world
couple, with a certain vigorous stamp
lingering about their very shadowiness, played
their own game in perfect earnest ; or had

they, too, been somehow decoyed and forced
among quicksands %

Iris did not anticipate much seclusion in
her walk, for the hill was not only frequented
by visitors in the season, it was haunted from
late spring to late autumn, as she could guess,
by children seeking in succession birds' nests,
blackberries, and blackberries ; still she con Id
find a quiet spot where she might sit down
and rest and look at the wide, free view of
hill and hollow and river, just broken here
and there by patches of yellow corn-land,
stretches of green pasture grass, bits of wood.
She could realise that she was in a pastoral
country where, whatever human discord broke
the stillness, there was always a harmonious
undertone made up of the bleating of sheep
and the humming of bees amonor the heather,
the occasional bark of a shepherd's dog, the
constant trickle far and near of innumerable
threads of water which rose and were fed
among the hills, to feed in turn the bigger
burns and the rivers rushing on to the sea.
Overhead was the solemn grey sky of the
north country, in which, though there was no
sin of rain, the blue was not left honos uninvited,
and the white of the fleecy clouds

582

was brushed with a silvery grey, passing here
and there to deeper, darker, though still clear
tints of slate colour.

Iris would fain have let the simplicity and
peace of the landscape sink into her harassed
mind from which a fantastic nightmare could
not be driven out. But she was not left
alone to reason with herself, reassure and
calm herself by recovering mental balance
and spiritual faith, for almost the first thing
she saw was Sir William's glengarry rising
above the bracken as he pushed his way
regardless of the obstacles on a wrong track,
to reach her. She was not safe even on the
hill of ancient hangings ; she was pursued,
and caught at that distance from the inn. In
despair, she sat quite still and let him come
up and speak to her.

I beg your pardon for intruding upon
you, Miss Compton,' he said humbly enough,
panting a little from his reckless exertions to
gain her side. * But I have something to say
which I am taking the first opportunity to
tell you by yourself It is what you ought to
know at once ; I have no doubt you will be
glad to hear it.'

Iris turned upon him a questioning, apprehensive,

half-indignant balance. Then she
bethought herself that he was not knowingly
to blame for ail the misery he had caused,
that he was himself involved in the last misfortune.
A rush of remorse amounting to
tender friendliness came over her for the
manner in which she was beoinninor to treat
him, so that she spoke to him quite kindly.

In place of requiring you to apologise for
interrupting my important meditations,' she
said, with rather a forlorn attempt at gaiety,
I ought to thank you heartily, Sir William,
for taking so much trouble about something
in which you think I have an interest,' and
she made room for him to sit down by
her.

He threw himself down where she indicated,
and was silent for a moment, plucking
the heather and looking, not at her, but
straight before him with a far-away expression
in his eyes. Perhaps he felt what he had
already experienced more than once during
this year, he was realising the literal circumstances
of a bygone dream, in which, however,
all the premises had undergone a variation.
Not least of all, though that was not
in his count, his personal appearance and

general air were changed since Iris had first
known him. His manliness was more
matured, much that had sat constrainedly
and uneasily on him he now carried lightly
and unthinkingly. He had the look of a
plain, brusque, but not undignified country
gentleman of the class into which his first
sanguine backers had argued he would merge.
The chestnut beard which he wore covered
the somewhat dogged squareness of the jaw
and the weakness of the chin, while the lines
from the nose to the corners of the mouth
were so defined as to give the leonine cast to
the face. The fulness of forehead beneath
the waves of hair had already a furrow or
two, and the slight contraction of the brow
seemed to set the blue eyes more deeply,
and to cast a shadow over them. The face
was still massive, tending to ruggedness as it
grew older, with more of thoughtfulness and
of calm repression and patient pain at the
present moment than of its old stern tension
or passionate impulse.

To Iris's surprise, Sir William drew out
his pocket-book and unfolded a written
paper.

I must first tell you where I have been,

Miss Compton he said, and his colour deepened
Hke a girl's while he spoke.  I've been

back to / and he mentioned the inn at

which the party had made their last
momentous halt.

She would have said :

Yhat took you there '?' but her lips would
not utter the words.

He went on hurriedly :

I wished to see the landlord, who, so far
from seeming a regular blackguard, appeared
a respectable enough man. My object was
to seek an explanation from him  if an explanation
were needed  to ascertain what he
had to say of the farce which Lady Fermor
insists on keeping up.'

I dare say you where right,' Iris forced
herself to say, half inaudibly, with her eyes
turned away, and falling by chance on the
little bare hand without the bridegroom's gift
of a ring lying languidly on her gown.

I did not see him at first. By a curious
coincidence Lady Fermor had written for
him to come here ; but he had to attend some
sale. I waited for his return and had a conversation
with him. He told me the whole
truth, and I made him write it down, and

have it witnessed. I took a copy for Lady
Fermor, and gave it to her within the last
half-hour. This is for you ; all you have todo
is to keep it, and it will save you from
further anxiety and vexation.'

Iris took the sheet of ruled blue paper in
bewilderment. The writing was the round
clerkly hand of the best old Scotch parish
schools. The diction was not so unexceptionable
; but though the intelligence it conveyed
threw a new light on everything, the
style ought not to have been incomprehensible,
if it had not been for the circumstance
that the letters and the sense of the words
danced before Iris's eyes and understanding.
She could not take them in for some moments.
It was only by a supreme effort at self-control
that she at last mastered the contents of
the paper.

This is to certify that my house of entertainment
at , being built on the very

boundary-line between the two countries  as
there are plenty of records to prove what the
** Marches" are  some of its rooms are in England
and some in Scotland. The sitting-rooms
which were lately occupied by Lady Fermor

and party are both in England. No marriage
ceremony performed according to Scotch law
within the bounds of either of them would be
legal, or could stand. This would be the case
even though the contract had been entered
into in good faith, with the full knowledge
and concurrence of all concerned  whereas
I am assured by Sir William Thwaite, who
acted as the bridegroom in a performance of
which I got a glimpse, that the whole thing
was a mere play or froHc, never intended by
the principal persons engaged in it to go any
farther.

I wish to say for myself that I believe
the fact of part of the house being in England
and part in Scotland did not exist without
abuse lang syne. Sometimes, to extort
rewards and bribes, the couples who had
whiles betrayed others were themselves betrayed,
and were handed over unwed, when
they had thought otherwise, to the friends at
their heels. Or, what was baser still, bride
and bridegroom had to cower their whole life
lang before the auld innkeepers and the mock
ministers, and pay sweetly for their silence on
what, in point of law, was no better than a
mock marriage. Or, if the bridegroom were

a villain, he could cast off his bride through
the villainy of his helpers.

I had no suspicion of what was going on
the other night till I was warned by one of
the servant lasses, who mistook jest for
earnest. I came up, as fast as my feet would
carry me, to shift the party into the opposite
room, which had first to be cleared of its
company. By the time that had been done
the business was all but finished, while it
looked to me more like a foolish joke than a
serious wedding'. In that case, with no harm
intended or done, I appeal to any innkeeper
in his senses if it was for me to come forward
and affront and displease titled customers.
If I had got any proof that the marriage
was really meant for a wedding which was
to be carried out, I hereby solemnly declare
that I would have come forward and tolled
the truth at any cost.

I admit when the old teddy started at
break-6f-day, leaving the couple behind, I
misdoubt the joke and tried to get speech
of her, but she would not hear me. Maybe
she has minded that though, and so has sent
for me to go all the way to Moffat to speak
with her. And when the gentleman that

stood for the bridegroom, who has now come
back to clear up the story, left next, that same
morning', I thought like the lave that he
would be back again in no time, and that it
would be soon enough then to warn him. It
was rather a ticklish thing, if so be he thought
he was wad, to tell him he was mistaken, and
bear the wite of the English rooms which
belonged to the buildings of the house on the
very Border a good wheen years before I
was born.

I meant also to speak to the young teddy,
though she had sustained no wrong that I
know of, but before I had word of her intended
departure she too had gone off with a
friend that was sent back for her just at the
moment when I was enoaped with some
pressing customers ; and I could not think
she would suffer harm in her friend's hands.
However, the affair has been on my mind,
and I have not been without fear that, jest
or earnest, me, and more than me, might get
into trouble about it yet. And I was on the
eve of travelling as far as Moffat at my own
ill-convenience to obey the auld teddy' s orders
and make a clean breast of it to her, when
the gentleman calling himself Sir William

Thwaite, who is, according to his own account,
biding at the same inn in Moffat, came
express to me, and saved me the journey.
He has caused me to write this paper, which
he is to show the eddies. He'll certify
that I have been ready to answer all his
questions and to communicate to him the
local disqualification, which attests beyond
dispute that no legal marriage was, or could
have been, celebrated in the front or in the
back-parlour on the second floor of my house

of on the evening of the 7th of August,

187.

(Signed) Andrew Peebles.

(Witnessed) James Margrave.

Catharine Preston

Iris was free ; no further glamour could be
thrown over an idle incident  an accident,
and the finger of scandal would never point
to her, even in her grave. But the result was
something altogether different from what she
had been brought to dread, and the man who
had freed her, who thus voluntarily renounced
the far-fetched ghost of a claim to her, was
the same who in the hay-field at Whitehills
had persisted against every remonstrance in

declaring his desperate love for her, and
maintained it was no light fancy, but a lifelong
passion and sorrow. This was the man
who dissolved the masquerade that yet seemed
to bind them strangely together. But while it
somehow smote her to the heart that he could
do it, she cried out against herself for her
disloyalty to herself and him, and told herself
the truth, that if he had acted otherwise
he must have degraded himself in her
eyes, and she would have had the double
anguish of learning to despise him at this
date. She must not let him see what she
thought ; she must give him his due. She
turned to him with her hands clasped tightly,
and brilliant roses in the cheeks that were
growing thin.

How shall I ever thank you. Sir William?
If you had failed me and made me suffer fora
piece of folly, what would have become of
me, and of you also ? But you behaved like
the perfect gentleman and true friend that I
have long known you to be.'

 Come,' he said, catching his breath and
speaking with something of the old roughness,
' don't make it too hard for a fellow.
But I must speak out just this once, since

we shall never allude to the subject
again

You might have paid me back for what
must have struck you as a girl's intolerable
arrogance,' she said, half under her breath.

No, no,' he corrected her quickly ; * you
are talking nonsense now. You could never
be arrogant. It was I who was a presumptuous,
deluded idiot.'

You have shielded and delivered me,' she
said sadly, * while I  I believe I have done
nothing save injure you since the first time
we met.'

How can you say so ?' he cried, impatiently
 almost indignantly. ' You made a
man of me  by causing me to look up to
what was far above my reach certainly  but
when I fell back into the beast again have
you forgotten how you came and saved both
me and poor Honor ?'

Poor Honor !' echoed Iris, and the tears
began to trickle down her cheeks in spite of
herself, for she had been much tried lately,
and the strain on her was, as she had said,
becoming more than she could bear.

'Don't cry. Miss Compton, for mercy's
sake,' he implored. * I could not stand it. I

could not answer for myself, though at my
worst I would not have taken advantage of
you in the way you seem to think I might
have done. To make out, after one mad
moment, that you had married me truly
according to the Scotch law, or any law, and
to call Lady Fermor to bear me out in the
assertion, would have been to act like a rascal
as well as a brute, to have lost your friendship,
and I have been proud to possess that
at least.'

And now we shall be friends always,' she
said wistfully.

I don't know,' he answered restlessly.
Yes, friends in heart I hope, if you will dome
the honour. But it ain't as if I Averse
another woman or a better man. I think I
shall go abroad as I proposed.'

All the same you will come back to
Whitehills one day she ventured with a faint
smile.

 What, to find you ' he began vehemently,
then stopped for an instant, and went
on more quietly. ' If I cared for you as you
deserve to be cared for, I should not regret
finding you in a happier and safer home than
where I first saw you, and shall always remember

you, at Lambford. But I am a
selfish dog.'

She was silent now, breathing with soft
quickness.

I need not say Lady Fermor, though she
has tried to be my friend he remarked with
rather a grim smile, ' is no protector for you,
any more than she was for your cousin, Miss
Dugdale. But you are another sort of girl 
so much wiser and stronger in your gentleness,
that it was only after repeated proofs
I could think your grandmother might be too
much for you. It is exactly as I said the
other night at the station ; forgive me for the
liberty, but I cannot, as 1 am a man, endure
to leave you with her.'

She continued dumb. She did not say, as
she had implied before, that whatever risk
she ran it could be nothing to him, or that
she resented pity from him ; she did not
upbraid him with hurting her by reminding
her of her friendlessness ; she did not bid him
go again.

He looked at her with the keenest, most
earnest scrutiny, flushing high while he looked.

I am sure you would not trifle with me.
Miss Compton. You did not do it before.

when I was a foolhardy ass. Perhaps you
think it is impossible one man can twice err
in the same indefensible way. You know I
was such a blockhead as not to see through
your cousin's merry fencing, and guess on
which side her deliverance lay. I was tempted
to feel that, if she would let me, I outfit to
come to the rescue, and not see her sacrificed
as I had seen another bright, kind woman
perish. It seemed all that was left for me
to do. It was not giving up much, for I
had not a grain of hope besides. But I
could not venture to approach you, and
propose to be your protector, not even after
what has come and gone  you are too far
above me.'

She made a hasty deprecating movement
to interrupt him, but he did not heed it.

And it would be too great a mockery  I
may as well say it, since I am in for it, though
I may affront you again. You have said
enough to shove you will not mistake me  I
love you as I love my life. I have done so
from the first moment I saw you ; I shall doit
to my last gasp, though you mayn't like it.
I can't help it any more than you can. And
I might have been content with your towers

III. 59

ance  like a scrap thrown to a dog  in the
past ; but though I've been down in the
depths since then, things are different somehow
with me. I could not be satisfied to-day
with what I should perhaps have caught at
years ago. I am wiser, or T am prouder,
though I have little enough to be proud of.
I should not ask much, but I must have a
grain  a having seed fit to sprout and grow.
I know only too well what I have been, and
how unworthy I am still ; but if you could
ever look over it, like the generous, gentle
soul you are and were to poor Honor  I
don't mind though it were a bit for her sake
you had a soft heart to her, bless you !
because she has left me alone in the world 
why then I should be the proudest, gladdest
fellow on earth. I would keep you, as far as
my life could save you, from care and sorrow.
I would serve you with my best, and ask
only a crumb of kindness, and that you yourself
should be happy.

She spoke at last.  Not for Honor's sake,'
she faltered,  though I did care for her, but
for your own  not a crumb, but all. Has it
not been well won ?' She laid her hand
in his as she spoke, and her pure lips

were there for his reverent awed lips to
press, her sweet eyes to return shyly his
blissful glances.

After the two had talked long together,
Sir William suddenly announced, with a laugh
which spoke volumes for the terms to which
they had attained : ' I have forgotten to tell
you that Lady Fermor was so put out by the
paper I brought her, she said she would set
off for Lambford tomorrow ; she would not
wait for Soames.'

'Well, if grand mamma does it won't
matter  will it ? She did not forbid you to
accompany her, I hope. I shall be very glad
to see home again, to see them all at the
Rectory, and hear what they will say. Perhaps
we may be in time to catch up King
Lud, before he sails. Poor, dear Marianne !
I am sorry for her now.'

Why in the world should you be sorry ?

Because you are not going to sail, Sir
William  ought I to tell you that 1'

'If it does not hurt you to say it, it is very
agreeable for me to hear it.'

But it will spoil you, and as it was only
the other day that I refused to entertain you,
I think you may have some notion how far I

592

was from contemplating spoiling you then.
We must not get on quite so fast. But I
will say this, that I doubt if King Lud and
Marianne are quite so happy as we are.'

I doubt it too, though I have only one
reason to give for the doubt.'

I don't wish to hear that reason again
to-day ; I think I have heard it already. I
mean because they have not been tried.'

Perhaps he would not agree with you,
poor chap.'

Oh ! but that was all a man's stupidity
not to see through her flattering opposition.
They have come together without one real
tribulation to test them. They strike me at
this moment as two quite inexperienced, lighthearted
young persons, so that one fears 
though one hopes not  that the cares and
trials may all lie before them. Now we,
though doubtless we have troubles by the
score in store for us, have passed through fire
and water ; we know and can trust ourselves
and each other.'

There was trouble in his eyes at that very
minute. 'Trusted and tried, and never
found wanting  I can say that of you, my
sweetheart; but can you ever trust me V

Yes, William,' she said with simple sincerity,
and so earnestly that there was a little
solemnity in her tones ; ' with all my heart.
You have fought a good fight, and He who
strengthened you for the battle will never
suffer you to be vanquished. I shall be glad
to be home again,' she added more lightly.
I have been very unhappy there sometimes,
but I feel as if that were all to be forgotten
now, and only the peaceful, happy days to be
remembered. I was never so long away from
home before. Now that I have time to think
of it, I want very much to see what changes
have taken place in my corner of Eastham
during my absence.'

 And you want to see Whitehills again, for
Lambford cannot long be your home ; you will
begin to look on Whitehills very differently.
We may go abroad and see the world, but we:
must settle at Whitehills ; that will always,
be the most important place to us.'

You cannot tell how honos ago I was told
to give my most serious consideration to
Whitehills. Your cousin, Lady Thwaite,will
think I have taken her advice,'

Never mind what she thinks. I suppose
she will be pleased, and she will forgive me.

Well, she has forgiven me long ago. But I
shall take to her now, for I cannot forget
that it was by her means I saw my lady first.'

It was after that meeting I called you " a
good sort of young man " to grandmamma.'

I am afraid I did not deserve the character.
But, Iris, Lady Thwaite is the only
pretence to a friend I can give you.'

And how many can I give you ?' she said
with an answering sigh.

I think if you had known my sister Jen
you would have loved her, though she had to
work to earn bread for her and me, and was
~a washerwoman to the last day that I left her
in peace.'

I am sure I should,' said Iris, with conviction.
'Nobody, not you yourself, could
have been so much obliged to her, and we
should have had one chief source of interest
in common.'

There is a good fellow who has been,
next to you, since I lost Jen, the best friend
I had in the world, though he would never
call himself anything save my servant. He
will be as proud as a peacock, as pleased asa
pike-staff to hear the great news.'

I know,' said Iris, with a bright smile ;

Bill Refers. Tell him from me to wish us
both joy. His sister has sometimes said that
if I had ever a house of my own she would
like to go with me. She may if grandmamma
consents, mayn't she \ Why, we have loads
of faithful friends, William.'

When the couple returned to the inn, they
had tarried so long that Lady Fermor, in
great dudgeon from another cause, had eaten
her luncheon without them, and set out on
her afternoon drive alone.

Sir William and Iris strolled into the inn-garden.
She found an old-fashioned rosebush
still covered with roses, the same as some she
had seen at the last halting-place. A few
hours ao'o she would have tried not to see
those roses ; she would not have spoken of
them  least of all to Sir William Thwaite ;
she would have wished to forget that they
were there. But a single morning had brought
such a change to the depressing, distracting
conditions of her life, that she hailed the
flowers. She caused him to gather clusters
of them, shared them with him, put some of
them as before in her jacket. ' Do you remember
ever seeing such roses 1' she asked
him mischievously.

12 BEAUTY AND THE BEAST.

 You are out if you expect to find my
memory in fault here,' he told her. *It ain't
the best of memories, but there are some
things I don't forget. I could show you the
marrow of these in my pocket-book.'

Then keep them carefully, for they were
my single ornament at the rehearsal of the
greatest event in our lives.'

The girl was laughing and jesting already,
girl-like, at the nightmare of the last two or
three weeks. A nd he was a proud and happy
man to note the change in her  proud and
happy to have her speaking to him in this
fashion.

The whole party dined that day for the
first time, by Lady Fermor's choice, at the
table d'hote of the inn. There were some
inquisitive people present who had seen the
titles of two of the party in the visitors' book,
and were attracted by the aristocratic old
mummy who asserted her importance, and
the handsome young couple under her charge.
The girl had a head like a cherub, and her
companion looked a comely young fellow in
the heyday of his life. Clusters of the same
rose were in her fichu and in his buttonhole ;
and the eyes of the wearers had a trick of

straying to each other, even in an august
presence. It was remarked if my Lady
Fermor did not approve of that match, she
had brought the pair into a dangerous neighbourhood.


The truth was that at the close of Iris's
grandmother's afternoon nap, she had heard
of the accomplishment of the marriage, for
which she had so long planned, schemed, and
striven by fair means and foul, of which that
very morning she had received cause to
despair. She had got her will ; but the
question was how far it had lost its charm and
become embittered to her by the circumstance
that her instrumentality had little or
nothing to do with the attainment of her end.
She had even been foiled in her last daring,
heartless, shameless move ; and it was only
by their own choice, which they might have
exerted any day, that Sir William and Iris
were about to marry. Lady Termor had
heard Sir William with little snorts and something
not far from a scowl. She had said :
You have plenty of cheek, Thwaite, to come
to me with such a proposal, after the paper
you showed me this morning. You two have
taken your own time and mode to make up

your minds, and have been rather long about
it. What if I decide to have my objections
now ; to say I am sick  which is a fact  of
the tiresome affair, and to forbid the alliance
to go any further ?'

 I am afraid that it is too late, Lady
Fermor, after the encouragement you have
given me said Sir William, keeping his
temper. ' I don't ask anything more from
you except your grand daughter, while I am
ready to make any settlement upon her that
you please. Excuse me, my lady, but you
have not exhibited so deep an interest in her
welfare or dealt so fairly by her, as to warrant
her  a woman who is of age  in declining to
act for herself because you bid her.'

*And I have shown you no kindness 
have looked over no slips and stumbles on
your part ? Of course not. Deny that you owe
me anything. That is the way of the world

But though Lady Fermor had been astoundingly
ungracious and unreasonable in
eyes which might have read her better by
this time, she was a woman of the world.
She did not dismiss Sir William ; she accepted,
however grumblingly, his escort back
to England ; and she proceeded to announce

the marriage as if it had been from beginning
to end of her making.

Before Iris was far across the Border she
sent back a letter to Jeannie, the maid at the
inn.

I have taken your advice, Jeannie  not
because a happy accident has enabled your
master, with James Mangrove and Catharine
Preston, whoever they may be, to testify
to my deliverance from an unknown danger,
not because I fear any scandal in the future,
but because I now know certainly what
I just guessed before, that Sir William
Thwaite is one of the best of men, and that
I shall be one of the happiest of women if I
marry him in sober earnest. You must not
think that I am out of my senses to write
this after what I said to you. To convince
you of it I will grant that he is not perfect,
any more than his fellow-mortals  that he
has had his evil days ; but he has been made
the conqueror, and I am going to share his
conquest. I owe it to your kindness to let
you know the happy end of the story ; and
remember, Jeannie, if I can ever serve you
in return, count upon me. I enclose Sir
William's address for this purpose.'

Lady Thwaite was profuse and tolerably
sincere in her congratulations. ' I am glad
you have thought better of it, my love. You
are a lucky girl ; not everybody gets the opportunity
of changing her mind to some purpose.
I shall be charmed to have you reigning
in my place in dear old Whitehills. We
Avill shut our eyes and forget that there was
an infatuated, miserable interregnum, with
another dreadful Lady Thwaite, between.
He will only think the more of you, if he
should ever look back and contrast the two.
I speak as a relation of the family, my dear
Iris.'

But you are mistaken, Lady Thwaite,'
said Iris, with the old involuntary drawing up
of her figure and rearing of her little head ;
neither Sir William nor I will ever forget
poor Honor. There can be no invidious comparison
or contrast between us two. We
were brought up very differently, yet we were
friends, in spite of every obstacle, when we
were children and girls. Do you know the
last thing she did before she left Whitehills
was to come across to Lambford to bid me
farewell ? I am glad to think of it.'

Oh ! Well, just as you like, my dear.

You and Sir William are two very remarkable
people  about the most remarkable in
my circle ; and if it please you to recollect
what most persons would prefer to forget, it is
only a matter of taste ; it does not necessarily
signify.'

Marianne Dugdale first stared, then said, a
little drily : ' I was led to suppose the 'penchant
was all on one side ; that is, after I
had got the faintest hint of a penchant. In
short, there have been so many different
accounts that, upon my word, one is puzzled
which to believe.' Then she added, while
she struofMed between a frown and a smile,
So you two will be married long before we
shall.' But presently the smile gained the
supremacy and grew wondrous sweet, and
Marianne cried, ' All right !' and kissed Iris
with effusion before the whole company,
looking: as much affronted the next moment
as if King Lud had been the object of the
caress.

His congratulations were frank and hearty,
the Rector and his wife and all the others
were complaisant, but Lucy held back a
little.

Lucy had been much exercised lately on

the subject of her brother's engagement.
She had been affectionately impressed by the
prize Marianne Dugdale had won. King
Lud's virtue from childhood, his unblemished
character in every respect, had been the
frequent theme of Lucy's laudations. She
had dwelt with justice on these lustrous
jewels in King Lud's crown, until she felt
truly that for any man to be without them,
or to have tarnished their lustre, was a flaw
indeed. Thus the very girl who had given
in her early adherence to Iris's accepting the
fate assigned to her, and complying with her
grandmother's wishes, now sought anxiously
to hold the willing bride back, and to remonstrate
with her on concluding the contract.
It was another and a much more commendable
spirit than that exhibited by the Hollises,
who, when they heard of the marriage, protested
it was a thousand pities it had not
happened an age ago, when there was a
much greater and more amusing disparity
between the pair, and when poor Sir William
was always shivering on the verge of putting
out the cloven foot ; as it was, the second
Lady Thwaite, though she was a nice enough
girl, and all that sort of thing, would never bethe

gain to the silliness of the neighbourhood
which the first had promised to be.

'Yes, daring,' said Lucy, hesitating a
good deal, ' it is delightful to have you settled
so near us after all. It is very pleasant
to think that you can bring yourself to do
what Lady Fermor has so long wished. She
is your grandmother, your nearest surviving
relative, and she has brought you up besides.
I am sure you know I am the very last person
to speak lightly of such obligations. But oh !
Iris, may they not sometimes be set aside ?-
So many things have happened since we
talked of this before. You will not be angry
with me for alluding to Sir William's origin,
which is the same as it ever was, of course,
but then we had not the enlightenment of his
low marriage and of his terrible unsteadiness
for a time. I would not vex you for the
world. Iris, but we are such old friends ! Is
it not too great a risk ? Are you not frightened
'?'

No,' said Iris, without anger, though
with a heightened colour ; * and I am glad
that you have spoken out this once to me,
Lucy, for I know you mean it kindly, and I
can tell you everything. Love casts out fear.

and I love him ! I have long loved him.
Would you turn from the creature you loved,
because he had been subject to some
deadly disease, which, in spite of all his
brave desperate struggles to throw it off and
regain perfect health, it was just possible
might return and prostrate him again ?
Would you not rather cling to him and help
him to meet the enemy '? You know there
can be no defeat in the end, because the very
soul of evil was vanquished long centuries ago ;
and I have no thought that there will be a
partial defeat. Oh, Lucy, think what his
trials and disadvantages have been and how
he has risen above them, and then measure
him, if you dare  if you have the heart  with
those who were never really called upon to
bear the burden and heat of the day, never
thrown and trampled in the mire  down in
the place of dragons  or faint with the
deadly weakness of ignorance, evil habits,
and undisciplined passions. I can understand
it all, because I have been brought up
in a tainted atmosphere, so close to the blot
on my kindred that only one thing could
have kept me clean. What, am I to sit in
judgment on William Thwaite, who has burst

his bonds and trodden them under foot ?
Do you think I would not rather run a thousand
risks than that they should entangle his
very feet again ? He is free as any man, but
bound or free, love can but live and die for its
object.'

And he was made a conqueror. Is it so
strange a thing to believe that a man who
has been once caught in the toils, may yet
again go free, with God's own heaven above
him, a loving, faithful woman by his side and
little children clasping his knees ?

Iris's screen, with the working out of the
great artist's idea of the contest between
Arachne and Minerva, found a place in the
Whitehills drawing-room among some relics
of poor Honor's finery, tenderly dealt with
for her sake. Sir William had an immense
admiration for his wife's screen, which the
embroidered tried in vain to lower to
a reasonable moderation. Humour darkly
whispered the master of Whitehills preferred
that comparatively stilted piece of
embroidery  begging the great artist's
pardon  not only to all the old tapestry, but
to one of the glories of the house, the semblance
of his ancestress with the toy rake,

VOL. III. 60

J

designed and executed by the king of English
portrait-painters. Iris was a little afraid that
Sir William venerated her Arachne and
Minerva as one of the art wonders of the
world, and that there was no help for it.
But a man's extravagant appreciation of his
wife's handiwork, even though it may interfere
with his aesthetic taste, is surely a fault
which leans to virtue's side.

Mrs. Haigh and Ju-ju came and saw the
screen in its place of honour, and the former
on her return to her boarders exalted Lady
Thwaite still more than she had exalted * the
Honourable Miss Compton.'

Marianne Dugdale was a great deal with
her cousins, even after she had changed her
name, during those first partings from her
husband, before she had a settled home with
its nursery, when the least gust of wind at
might among the old trees in the park sent
her down to breakfast next morning with
her temper in a particularly rasping condition.
Then she would rail at the Admiralty
for parting husbands and wives, and not letting
her sail with King Lud, when she would
have been no trouble ; on the contrary, she
would have lent efficient aid in setting every

bolt and spar of her Majesty's ship to
rights.

Whitehills was a great rendezvous of the
Actons, from the Rector with his flowery but
honest compliments to the youngest of his
offspring. Indeed, the place became established
in the records of the neighbourhood
as a most pleasant and hospitable country
house, in which the dowager Lady Thwaite
was fain to claim a vested interest.

Lady Fermor having established her granddaughter
very creditably behaved as if she
had done enough, and concerned herself very
little with young Lady Thwaite and her
doings. The old woman did not grow fonder
of the young one, even after Lady Fermor's
infirmities increased until she was forced to
admit some of Iris's gentle good offices. But
to the last Lady Fermor much preferred the
attentions of Sir William, to whom she had
long ago been entirely reconciled, and any
softening of her stout-hearted looks and
cynical words were always for him.

So completely were Iris's bugbears dispersed
by the genial influence of a good husband
and a happy home, that in walking
down the main street of Knotley one day,

602

and meeting the wreck of a broken-down old
man dragging himself along by the help of a
servant's arm and a stick, she crossed over,
stopped and inquired kindly for him, listening
with commiserating interest to his mumbled
complaints.

Her first words when she next saw her
husband were :

I met poor grand mamma's friend whom
she used to call " old Pollock' in Knotley
to-day, the first time for many months. I
don't think he was ever very likeable, but
how silly I must have been to feel such a
horror of him, and now he looks so wretched,
feeble, and friendless, poor man ! William, is
there nothing we can do for him V

