CHAPTER I.

YOUNG MACKINNON's MARRIAGE CONTRACT.

Nearly thirty years ago, three highly-respectable
'single ladies,' sisters, of the
name of Mackinnon, the youngest of there
already turned forty, the eldest over fifty,
and showing decided tokens of what had been
from the beginning a sort of ready-made old-childishness,
dwelt in what was still a commodious
house in one of the old squares of
Glasgow. It was a region which had
fallen down in the world, since the days
when its substantial houses  their line
vol. i. 1

broken here and there by low-browed,
covered-in Spends'  were occupied by more
than one of the ' Tobacco Lords '  the ancient
autocrats of the West, sprouts from the
great Highland houses who had pocketed
their pride and stooped to prosecute trade
in St. Mungo's city instead of levying blackmail
on the Lowland borders. These adventurous
spirits had amassed great fortunes,
and had strutted on the ' plainstanes ' in
their huge wigs and scarlet cloaks, as
haughtily as in the days of their youth they
had climbed their native braes in bonnets
and kilts. Such magnates had long passed
away. The tide of trade and fashion had
altered more than once in the interval since
sugar had got the better of tobacco, and
cotton had rivalled sugar, anderson distanced
cotton.

As for the cotton and iron lords, they
were no longer content with gloomy hous
near the old College and the Cathedral,
from which the dweller could patronize

learning and hold intercourse with the
professors and clergy  ignoring their comparative
poverty because they, too, were of
gentle birth, while book-knowledge has
always had its value in Scotland. Far
less were the modern traders satisfied with
country houses by the Kelvin or down near
the Broomielaw. Glasgow was spreading
out north and south, and east and west.
The old houses, which had become centres
of a great population, instead of standing
on the outskirts of a town, were constantly
passing into lower hands or changing their
character. The buildings were occupied by
shopkeepers and warehousemen, or let out
in lodgings, or, after sustaining a gutting-out
process, flourishing anew as shops,
where in former days no shops, however
select, had broken in upon the genteel
retirement of 'family mansions.'

Like houses, like people ; many of the
proud, prosperous old families had fallen
from their high estate, and stood on an

12

inferior footing, forced to yield in wealth
and influence to new men coming to the
front in new branches of industry  men
frequently not drawn from the gentler ranks,
either of the Highlands or Lowlands, who
had been 'hands' before they were ' heads
and, along with the sterling qualities which
had raised their owners, were apt to retain
much of the original clay with which they
had been clogged.

The class which was superseded had only
the pride of their superior antiquity and
gentility to console them, and naturally
clung tenaciously and not very amiably to
these antecedents. The Miss Mackintosh
were come of the outstripped, borne-down
rulers of the past. Their father had been a
man in a better position than the one they
filled. Their grandfather had been far
before their father. As for their great-grandfather,
' a' Glasgy,' as Miss Janet
was wont to say, ' trifled at the wag o*
his finger.' Unfortunately, his descendants

had little more than his memory to plume
themselves upon.

But it seemed as if the fortunes of the
Mackinnons were about to revive  not in
the persons of the ladies, whose prospects
of advantageous matrimonial alliances, never
great, were slipping slowly but surely from
the reluctant women's grasp  hut in the
case of their eldest nephew, the head of
their branch of the family. Gavin 
was about to marry an heiress in
her own right  not such an heiress as a
Glasgow Mackinnon might once have aspired
to  but a lass whose family was not without
drawbacks and little mortifying objections,
which the ladies, if not their nephew,
swallowed with a manifest effort of complacence.


Still, here was an undoubted heiress who
had succeeded through her mother to a
small landed property, the worth of which
was increased tenfold by calico-printing
and dye-works built on the land, also the

property of Miss Craig, when such works
had come into repute as sources of trade
and wealth that would hold their own
against the cotton industries thus supplemented.


No Mackinnon had married a bride with
so promising a patrimony for the last two
generations. Certainly the trumpeters of
the family recoiled a little from the obligation
of their nephew to take up calico-printing
and dying as a calling, which was
something widely different from possessing
estates in Virginia, that furnished broad
Scotland, and England to boot, with
wholesale supplies of the crop of the
country.

In addition, the elder ladies could have
wished that Miss Craig had been able to
claim more commercially aristocratic kindred
; nevertheless, she and her dowry
were by no means to be despised. * There
would be plenty of the cotton and iron dirt
Miss Janet was guilty of indicating the

nouveaux riches in these terms  ' who, for
all their bragging that they were rolling
in wealth, would jump fast enough
at Maggie Craig, with her cash and Drysdale
 her grand-uncle-by-marriage's auld
farm-house, print-factory, and dye-vats

It was more of a recommendation than
the reverse to the Mackinnons, that Miss
Craig, who had been sent home from India
for her education, had few relations in
this country, and was so far dependent
on the good offices of the Glasgow kinswoman
of her future husband. It was a
matter of resignation, to say the least, to
these fairly humane and w T ell-intentioned
persons, that Miss Craig's mother, from
whom she inherited her property, had died
when she was an infant, and that her
father had married again since she left
India. It would have been a thousand
pities for her to return there to her strange
stepmother, especially when the tenant to
whom the calico-printing works were let,

who had made a good thing out of them,
was retiring at the end of his lease on a
competence, leaving the business with the
works to a successor, who might or might
not be the husband of the owner.

The Craigs were nobodies ; and the
Drysdales who were before them at Drysdale
Haugh were little better, ' farming
bodies ' of a homely kind, though the land
had been their own ; while calico-printing
and dyeing had not yet reached such a
magnitude as to elevate calico-printers and
dyers to the rank that the tobacco-traders
had held  they were hardly on a level with
cotton and iron manufacturers.

But when Gavin Mackinnon turned up,
crossed Miss Craig's path, proposed for her,
and on her acceptance of his hand boldly
undertook to become a printer and dyer on
his own account, his aunts were not so
destitute of the shrewdness of a trading
population as to fail to hail the windfall
which had come to the family, and the

staff which had been put into Gavin's not
too capable hand.

It was a pleasure to the gradually aging
women that the marriage should take place
in their house. In addition to the lively
interest which women in general find in all
that belongs to a wedding, intensified to
the highest pitch of excitement when the
actors by proxy are past their grand climacteric
and have lost the sanguine expectation
of becoming brides themselves, the Miss
Mackinnons had a natural [liking, seldom
gratified, for dispensing counsel, and ordering
and presiding in matters of consequence.


They were all three tall, stout women,
rather imposing-looking in their very plainness.
It was an advantage to the two
elder sisters that they assumed the matronly
style in dress which ought to have been
theirs, had fortune been kinder, and men
more solicitous of their favour. They
wore, if not caps, at least a sufficient

quantity of lace disposed about their heads
to shade what was gaunt or heavy. Pele-lines
and huge falling collars had gone out
for young women, but older people still indulged
in them, and they were not without
a certain dignity which suited large proportions.
The third sister, Miss Bethia (pronounced
with the accent on the ' i ') did herself
less justice. She put on gowns of
gayer colours and flimsier materials, and
arranged her unsheltered hair in a much
more youthful fashion of elaborate plaits
2nd braids.

Miss Mackinnon was developing deafness
which she declined absolutely to acknowledge,
and the greater part of her time was
spent in clearing up the misconceptions 
the inevitable growth of habitually hearing
and speaking at cross purposes. She had
grown both tart and stupid under the process,
otherwise she would not have been
less intelligent and agreeable than her
sisters, which, perhaps, was not saying

much, for the Miss Mackinnons had been
brought up under desperately narrowing
influences and with overwhelming prejudices.
Miss Janet had come to the
front as the result of Miss Mackinnon's
deafness; she was left to lay down the law,
while her long tongue and restless energy
kept her from granting her victim a
moment's respite.

Miss Bethia represented the accomplishments
of the ladies. She was fondly believed
to be one of the best piano-players in
Glasgow, which meant that she thundered
through half-forgotten pieces with stunning
din and astounding celerity, and played
reels with more spirit than delicacy. In
spite of the family's income, she worked indefatigably
for pleasure, and at considerable
cost, in wools and silks, heaping up trophies
only too gorgeous in the shape of cushions
and stools and screens, in the otherwise
faded and antiquated drawing-room. She
had a simper hovering about her large

mouth which was absent from her sisters'
faces, and seemed to say that in spite of
Miss Bethia's ponderous nose, light blinking
eyes, with barely visible eye-lashes,
and tow-like hair, much on the pattern of
the other members of the family, she
laboured under the delusion that she was
the beauty no less than the genius of her
race. It is hardly necessary to say that
Miss Bethia was the most foolish of the
sisterhood.

There was a redeeming feature in the
Miss Mackinnons' characters which did
something to make up for their intolerable
conceit and tendency to constitute themselves
and their opinions the centre of the
universe, before which all mankind was to
bow. They were strongly attached to each
other. None deferred more loyally to Miss
Mackinnon than did Miss Janet and Miss
Bethia: a fond mother could hardly have
been prouder of a cherished daughter's performances
than were the elder sisters of the

younger's prowess on the ' piano ' and in
fancy-work.

One of the peculiarities of the female
Mackinnon mind was that it scorned any
attempt in Scotch people to speak ' high
English.' As the ladies' voices were
naturally loud, and they had accustomed
themselves to speak still more loudly to
suit Miss Mackinnon's infirmities, the effect
of their homely Scotch shouted to each
other or to any visitor was decidedly
startling to a new-comer. Another thing
the sisters could not abide was a silly pretence
at polished instead of plain manners.
Such w T weak copying of their neighbours, or
yielding to changes which were no improvements,
were for ' the cotton and iron dirt.'
Such trifles were far beneath the attention
of the Mackinnons. These favoured mortals
needed no artificial props. The
family's claims to precedence were so unanswerable
that a Mackinnon might do
exactly as he or she liked, within the

bounds of the moral law, for the maiden
representatives of the house were respectable
Christians and staunch Presbyterians,
assured that the name would grace any
speech or action, and confer, not derive,
lustre from it.

Only a small moiety of the world took
the Miss Mackinnons at their own estimation,
and the moiety was ever decreasing.
Strange to say, Maggie Craig, a simple yet
aspiring girl, was among the worshippers
at the nearly deserted shrine. These absurd
elderly women contrived to throw dust in
her young eyes. Her chief inducement to
marry Gavin Mackinnon was that he was
the first man who had made her an offer,
and that he was big  buff in various ways
in speech as well as in bodily inches,
and so filled a certain space in her world.
But her next reason was that in marrying
him she would enter into one of the oldest
and best Glasgow families, which to Maggie
signified as much as if she had referred to

one of the patriarchal houses of ancient
Rome, and that she might thenceforth hold
up her head in the light of being closely
allied to the unapproachable cream of the
inhabitants of her father's native city.

Therefore the bride - elect was highly
gratified instead of being intensely bored by
the invitation from her future husband's
aunts to make their house her home, and
be married from it, rather than from the
house of a business correspondent of her
father's or of a school-companion of her own,
nearly all the choice she could command.

Mr. Craig had sent home a formal consent
to the marriage. It was little more
than a form, since Maggie was of age and
could please herself. He dimly remembered
the Mackinnons as something beyond
the common and above his mark when he
left Scotland. He had not known anything
of them in later days so as to
modify his opinion. At the same time, his
parental interest in Maggie, and his impression

that she was doing well for herself,
did not go the length of tempting him to
return before his time. He had younger
children, who, as they had never been
separated from him, had eclipsed the firstborn
in his affections, and he was at once
easy-going and slow to be moved from the
plans of his whole life. He left Maggie to
her own discretion, and trusted her to her
new friends. He would come home, if he
lived, at the date he had originally fixed.

It was the night before the wedding  a
frosty winter night, which caused a slight
shudder in the minds of stay-at-home
people at the thought of the railway journey
to London  the sum-total of the bridal
tour. A jaunt to London in winter, and
to the Highlands or Ireland in summer,
were the stereotyped wedding-trips which
had always floated dimly before the Miss
Mackinnons' imaginations ; and it is needless
to say the sisters had imposed their
standard on the younger generation by sheer

strength of will and loudness of tongue.
Gavin Mackinnon was something of sounding
brass himself, but he was quiet and
yielding compared to the redoubtable aunts.
Maggie was a cipher in their hands in the
meantime.

In spite of what might have been supposed
to be the Miss Mackinnons' skill and experience
as tacticians in a general way, they had
as a matter of course not been familiar with
marriages. The grey house in the weatherbeaten,
smoke-darkened square was in the
greatest disorder. There was not a room
clear of bride's-cake, or white gloves 
livery,' the elder ladies called them  or
new gowns, or travelling trunks. There
was hardly a place in which to receive the
two lawyers who came for the important
purpose of reading and getting the signatures
to the marriage contract. The Miss
Mackinnons had talked so much for the
last ten days that they were not fit for
anything else. The bridegroom, finding it

A VOL. I. 2

loss trouble to agree than to contradict, had
acquiesced accordingly  in spite of his
pompousness. Maggie was only occupied
in considering how soon she would he a
Mackinnon, with all the privileges of the
race.

The marriage settlement, which was as
necessary for the dignity of the family as
for the safety of Miss Craig, was left to
take care of itself or to he concocted by the
aunts. Luckily they were perfectly honest,
and had no thought of taking advantage of
their new relative. Luckily, too, for the
sense and reason of the document, Miss
Craig's lawyer was on the spot, and had
been invited to join another member of the
profession  the Mackinnon family lawyer
in drawing up the deed. Miss Janet
was persuaded that none of the preparations
would prosper unless she wore, as she said,
1 at the heels of them.' But she was now
entertaining a visitor who had come on a
call of congratulation and inspection.

Miss Carstairs was a little woman, a
contemporary and old friend of the Miss
Mackinnons  one who had come within
the charmed circle of old Glasgow. She
now sat coolly and contentedly in the
middle of the confusion, where old silver
dishes and ' dead-fine ' table linen, hunted
out of ' presses ' to do honour to the occasion,
lay about among railway-rugs, leather
straps and time-tables on the little ebony
tables and bamboo chintz-covered chairs
and couches of the drawing-room. The
dining-room, with its heavy mahogany and
horsehair furniture, and fine old punch-bowl
below the sideboard, pointing back to
the days when Glasgow punch had been
famous, was given up, as a place of superior
gravity and masculine simplicity, to the
lawyers with their pen and ink, and the
young couple who were to profit by these
appliances.

Our marriage settlements said Miss
Janet in her powerful voice to her crony,

22

as if she and her sisters had been married
two or three times over, ' were aye made
sicca, though in the making they covered
ever so many pages of parchment. My
great-grandfather's was, like his will, as
bi": as a sma' book. He married a Fenton
Jean Fenton  and it is through her me
and my sisters have an interest in Strath-divine
 that is, if ever the Fentonss of
Strathdivie fail, we'll come in for our share
as heirs female through my great-grandmother,
Jean Fenton. Oo aye, this
settlement between my nephew Calvin and
Miss Craig is but a flea-bite compared to
our former settlements. But that is no
reason it should not be made right and
tight, with a lawyer on our side, Dauvit
Milne  we've always employed that firm 
and a lawyer on hers, new graith [growth] ,
but a decent enough man, I believe, a Mr.
Dalglcish. Do you ken him, Miss Carstairs
V

I should think so said Miss Carstairs,

a little drily ; ' you've forgotten, Miss
Janet, lie married my niece Tina. They've
a place in the Highlands, where I stayed
three weeks with them last summer.'

Miss Janet did not trouble herself to
apologize for what might have been a slip
of the tongue ; on the contrary, she rushed
upon a fresh offence. ' A place in the
Hielants, and he a writer body that lives
by pen and ink, and cannot date back two
generations !' she exclaimed, in a high,
protesting key. * After that Dauvit Milne
may have his London mansion, and his
shooting-box in the Sooth.' The irony
was more plain than gracious; but graciousness
was not a quality in which Miss Janet
Mackinnon excelled. ' Weel,' she added
with emphasis, after a pause, as if the
world's verdict hung on her sentence, ' I've
nothing particular to say against it  save
that " dickens will aye be wagging," ' she
ended with admirable candour.

Miss Carstairs gave an indignant sniff,

but she knew Miss Janet too well to resent
her unconscionable rudeness. Besides, it
was the Dalgleishes who were stigmatized
as ' dickens Miss Carstairs was as well
descended as any Mackinnon of them, and
could afford to overlook the sneer.

It was touch-and-go with that will
remarked the eldest Miss Mackinnon, with
her usual irrelevancy, for she had caught
only stray fragments of the conversation.
If she had died an hour or twa surer, our
Miss Craig would have lost every penny.
It would have been mast unnatural that
she should not have profited by her mother's
succession, but auld Drysdale never mentioned
heirs. He was a hot-headed stubborn
man, and though he had a great work
with Beenie Pryde, he never liked Jock
Craig. It was not with the uncle's will
that the niece made the marriage. But. as
I said, it was a mercy she died when she
did, though I've heard tell that if she had
eo much as given a perch or sech [groan or



sigh] after his breath was out, the property
would have been hers, and would have
come in the course of nature, as it has done,
to her doctor. her heiress

She's speaking of how Miss Craig's
mother came into her inheritance,' Miss
Janet hastened to explain, carefully lowering
her voice ; ' she's thinking of wills and
deaths, instead of settlements and marriages,
no that they're so far apart. Yes, it was
just so, auld Drysdale left his money to his
niece by marriage. He had no near relations,
and though he had the word of being
hard, he had aye a soft heart for the
memory of his young wife who pined and
died long before she saw her prime. He
took her sister's doctor, Beenie Pryde,
and brocht her up to keep his house, and
was as fond of her as if she had been his
ain bairn. But there was an odds for all
that ; he could never altogether forgive her
for marrying Jock Craig, and though he left
her his means, as he had come bound to do,

when lie took her to rear, he did not
trouble to mention her wean, that had nota
drop of his elude in its veins

1 Well, I mind something of the story,
hut I never heard all the ins and outs of
it before. The Drysdales were not in our
set, Miss Janet,' said mild Miss Carstairs,
not without what these old-fashioned ladies
would have called a ' fling ' at her hostess,
in return for Miss Janet's treatment of Miss
Carstairs' niece Tina. and her ' writer body '
of a husband.

1 Who said the Drysdales were in our
set, Kate Carstairs ?' demanded Miss Janet
defiantly. ' They were not such rules as
to set themselves up so far beyond their
standing. They kenned their place and
keepit it, which was more to their credit.
But that did not prevent auld Drysdale's
being a man of some substance,' composing
herself to resume her story. ' When
the news of his death and his inheritance
was sent out to where the Craigs had gone,

it was found that she had died after giving
birth to a lass bairn  our Miss Craig  the
very same day that the auld man her
uncle's breath went out at Drysclale Haugh.
I tell you, Miss Carstairs, it was nothing
short of a dispensation of Providence that
he was gone before her by the space of
three hours, or Maggie Craig could not
have touched place or penny of his ended
Miss Janet, excited by the crisis of her
narrative.

She would have had to hurry if she
would overtake him in his journey remarked
Miss Mackinnon, with a smile that
w r as a little ghastly, as a commentary on the
conversation.

What's she after now ?' inquired Miss
Janet, fairly mystified. ' Oh, I mind her
face clearing up ; ' she's so keen to lose
nothing we say. Meye's very sharp, but
she's apt to jump from subject to subject,
by all the world like a bird from branch to
branch. She's off, as she thinks we are, to

a joke we had among onrsel's this morning,
of the bride's remaining behind to look after
the gear, and the presents that had not
made their appearance in time, while the
bridegroom went the first stage in solitary
state. But I must wa' to keep Gavin
and Miss Craig in countenance while they
hear the settlement read  a trial to young
folks in their position  and to append my
signature as witness. I'll leave nothing
undone that I put my hand to. You'll forgive
me for leaving you, Miss Carstairs.
You know, it's not an ordinary occasion.
If you like to stop till I come back, Meye
here can be showing you Gauvin's " traps,' 1
as he calls them, his dressing-case and the
studs and things in it, for I think you've
looked over the bride's paraphernalia, or
Betheye  I hear her coming in, she has
been wa 1 about the cards  will give you
a tune.'

'No, thank you very much, Miss Janet,'
said Miss Carstairs, rising and expressing

all the more gratitude because of the positiveness
of her refusal. ' I must run away
myself  you will forgive me for having
detained you so long, at such an important
time, with so much on your mind as I see
you have. The bride can have nothing to
think of in comparison.

1 dare say no Miss Janet accepted the
implied compliment unhesitatingly, and
without limitation. ' What has a young
thing like her to take up her mind about
but to look bonnie and please Gauvin ? It
is me and my sisters that have to care for
them faith and see that nothing's forgotten,
and to keep the cook and confectioner, the
session-clerk and the minister, up to the
mark.'

I can feel for you, Miss Janet. When
my niece Tina was married, though it was
out of her father's house, not mine, and it
was not quite the same thing '  Miss Carstairs
corrected herself hastily, catching a
warning flicker of Miss Janet's light blue

eyes ; ' for Tina did condescend a wee bit,
though Mr. Dalgleish's a steady lad, and
getting into a fine business, and there's
something to be allowed for a lassie's choice
my very heels were sore, and I could not
sleep for a week.'

What are you saying about quarrels,
or was it reels, Miss Carstairs ?' asked
Miss Mackinnon. ' No, we're to have no
dance, only a degoonay in the French
fashion.'

111 not forget a bit of the cake with
your cards,' Miss Bethia assured the departing
guest. ' I'm to have charge of the
cakes and cards, and you must promise to
dream upon the cake.'

1 Hoots ! Miss Betheye, I'm done with
dreams, which does not mean that you
should be, you that can give us " Wooed, an'
married, an' a' ' so that our feet can hardly
keep still, while I'm " timber-tuned." You
have so many more pretty pieces of work
than those you've so handsomely presented

to Miss Craig that she may get them made
up for her drawing-room, it would be a real
pity they should be wasted.'

Wa' with you, Kate Car stairs !' cried
Miss Janet, while Miss Bethia's simper
passed into a giggle; c w r ould you rather
have Bethia wasted than the ottomans and
cushions, how T ever elegant or creditable to
her taste and industry ? You would not
have Betheye stoop to a man not in every
way worthy of her and her family ; and
where is such a man to be found at this
time of the day, I should like to hear V

time's changes.

Seven-and-twenty years had passed withall
their changes since the winter night on
which Gavin Mackinnon and Margaret
Craig's marriage contract was signed. Six-and-twenty
years had intervened since Mr.
David Milne  the solitary representative of
an old firm of Glasgow ' writers '  had
wound up their century-long business, disposed
of what was left, and retired with
the accumulated gains to buy an estate in
Kirkcudbright, and begin a new life as the
founder of a family of Galloway lairds.
Four-and-twenty years had elapsed since
Mr. Dalgleish, the husband of Miss Carstairs'
niece Tina, finding the field too well

occupied already, or that law was not so
profitable in the West of Scotland as it had
been, accepted a colonial appointment, and
sailed with his family for New Zealand,
to sit on endless boundary questions and
judge the rights and wrongs of Maoris
and settlers.

Seven and-twenty years, with all their
vicissitudes  vigorous, full lives vanished
like shadows, leaving no traces behind; new
lives which had dawned and risen above
the horizon, advancing to the hot glow of
their noon ; old stranded lives lingering on,
apparently without use or purpose.

The superannuated house in the old
square was little changed, except that the
narrow means of its occupants had grown
narrower, until they pinched with the sharp
pinch of poverty. Each one of the Miss
Mackinnons was in her place, though it
was becoming always harder and more
comfortless. There had been a business
speculation  soon corning to grief  into

which the ladies had rashly let themselves
be drawn, with the urgent desire of getting
higher interest for their small capital. The
end had been that the disaster which followed
had swallowed up the larger part of
the Miss Mackinnons' pittance.

The poor ladies had eked out what was
left by the secret sale, bit after bit, extending
over a period of years, of what they had
been accustomed to cling to fondly as the
proofs of their old gentility  quaint silver
plate, a few jewels, a considerable quantity
of fine lace  until the disposal of the family's
effects had come down to table and bed
linen, and articles of furniture in daily use,
which would fetch little monov, while their
absence would be severely felt. And
always as the surreptitious sale approached
its conclusion, starvation or the workhouse i
stared the unfortunate gentlewomen more
fully in the face. Still they lived on,
though the middle age of twenty-seven
years ago was the old age of to-day old

age without its privileges and indulgences ;
while Miss Mackinnon was stone-deaf, and
could only be communicated with by means
of the slate and slate-pencil which hung
behind her chair, or through a set of signs
which the patient ingenuity of faithful
affection had invented and maintained for
her use.

Miss Bethia, after a futile attempt to
teach her antiquated system of music, had
relinquished her piano and laid aside her
embroidery, which proved unsaleable, to
work at plain sewing, secretly disposed of
at the very shop where the Mackinnons'
custom had still been an esteemed compliment
in the days of Miss Bethia's youth.
Miss Janet did a servant's work behind
backs, in addition to taking her place before
the world among the ladies of the house.

Withal something heroic had crept in
with the suffering into these narrow lives 
something of Spartan endurance of hardship,
of generous self-denial, of steadfast

vol. 1. 3

submission to the Providence that knew
best what was fit for all. The Miss
Mackinnons were frequently absurd enough,
and in the increasing isolation of their
experience they were getting homelier and
more rugged and uncouth, falling back more
and more on their old Scotch and their
primitive manners, which they had always
declined to lay aside, as something which
had been good enough for former Mac-cannons,
so was good enough for their
descendants and for the world till the end
of time. But the women had never been
so like ladies as in their silent, desperate
light with overpowering odds.

A grain of hope remained at the bottom
of this Pandora's box. The Fentonss of
Strathdivic had not been so tenacious of
existence as the Mackinnons in St. Mungo
Square. One after another had dropped
into his or her grave without direct heirs, till
at last there was but one ailing man between
the ladies and their share of Strathdivie.

It had better be said at once that 
in its entirety was nothing more than
& moorland farm in one of the wards of
Lancashire, which, in the present state of
agriculture, was anything save a flourishing
possession ; and it had not the supplement
of dyeworks or breastworks, or coal or iron
seams, to multiply its worth. Divided into
portions, the allotment that might come to
the Miss Mackinnons was so trifling that no
man need have led a grudged life because
of it. Yet that pittance meant such comparative
ease and security to these hardly-rested
souls that they could not help contemplating
it afar off with longing eyes.
It was the hidden burden on the consciences
of all the three that they were wishing ill
to poor Archie Fenton, not caring to hear
that he had any chance of getting hale and
hearty again, privately calculating on the
probable length of days of a man who was
younger than two of the sisters.

To intensify the cruel uncertainty, it was

32

suspected that on the few occasions on
which Mr. Fenton and the Miss Mackinnons
had met, for the connection between the
families had belonged not to the present but
to former generations, the two elder sisters
Miss Janet especially  had been so unfortunate
as to give offence to the disposer
of Strathdivie. She had interfered, as
usual, where it was a particular want of
tact and taste to interfere ; and she had
perhaps betrayed only too unmistakably
what were her expectations with regard to
the farm in the Middle Ward ; while, it
was believed, Archie Fenton was not without
some power to ' will away ' from his
distant cousins their share of his property.

But surely he could not be so unnatural
and unjust, the Miss Mackinnons argued
with whitening lips. Blood was thicker
than water, and a dying man would not
dare to face his Maker after he had robbed
his kindred, however remote, of their lawful
patrimony.

Where were Gavin Mackinnon and his
wife that they did not come to the help of
their aged kinswomen ? One might as well
ask where were last year's leaves that they
did not continue to clothe with fresh green
the gaunt grey boughs of some venerable
tree. The years which had spared the
Miss Mackinnons had been as fatal to their
nephew and niece as to the Fentonss of
Strathdivie. Both had gone to their long
home many a day before. Ere their deaths
the dyeing and calico-printing had thriven
so badly in his incapable hands that first he
had tried a partner in the concern, and that
device not succeeding, he had, in the course
of three or four more years, got from his
wife the power of selling the property to
the same purchaser to whom he had, in
conjunction with his partner, already disposed
of the business. The buyer of both
was the son of a cousin of old Drysdale 's,
the original laird of Drysdale Haugh. The
younger Drysdale was a man whose father

o

lead sunk to a very inferior position. The
son, on the contrary, had risen through
every grade, till he was not only the sole
proprietor of works and farm, hut had improved
and extended them, had made them
a great concern, and had ended by building
a fine mansion-house as an addition to the
old farmhouse.

Neither Gavin Mackinnon nor his wife
had lived to hear what another man's
sagacity and energy had made of what they
had let slip through their fingers. She had
not seen the fifth anniversary of their
marriage, and he had not survived her as
 many more years. There were people who
said the couple had been done to ruin and
death by the Miss Mackinnons' powers of
talking and interference in their nephew's
private affairs. But everybody who knew
anything about it was aware that Gavin
Mackinnon could never have made anything
of a trade to which he was not bred ; and
what was she fit for save to spend or spare

as much of her own money as came into
her hands ? Then she died, as her mother
had done before her  in giving birth to an
only child, about whose arrival in this
world his grand-aunts had certainly made
as much fuss as if he were the heir to an
earldom. Still, all things considered, these
were circumstances over which the Miss
Mackinnons could not have had much control.
Neither ought they to have been held
accountable for their nephew's premature
demise, seeing that no amount of enlarging
even on disagreeable topics, and putting
fingers into other people's pies, could cause
a wet autumn, telling considerably on a
man who had never been alert about anything
in his life save sport. In this particular
instance he pursued it in soaking rain,
till he caught a violent cold, which settled
on his lungs and carried him off in ten
days.

During the lives of the husband and wife
the sale of Drvsdale Haugh had furnished

them with a considerable sum in ready
money, which they had not had time to
spend, though he especially had done his best
to get rid of what was so unfamiliar to him.
What was left fell to their son, who had
been reared, so far, under the care of his
grand-aunts. But while he was a minor he
could do nothing for them, and by the time
he was of age so much of his patrimony
had been spent on his education  worthy
the last of the St. Mungo Square Mackintosh
 and so much more in gratifying his
kinswomen's shortsighted pride and his own
boyish fancy by the purchase of a commission
for him in an infantry regiment, that
there was little left to spare from his small
income.

Lieutenant Eneas Mackinnon was the
pride and delight of his old relatives, the
one cause of congratulation in the middle
of their reverses, the single gleam of light
in their far-spent, darkening daj r s ! For
his credit and advantage they would Sacrifice

the little that remained to them, while
he had only a dim idea of the straits to
which the old ladies were reduced. He had
wished to do something for them out of
his chronic impecuniosity, and it was in a
great measure their fault that they would
accept next to nothing at his hands, lest
the dear lad should be stinted and not able
to make a fair show among his brother
officers.

TAM DEYSDALE IN HIS OFFICE.

There is no street in the whole city of bells
and chimney stacks with a greater and
richer mercantile traffic, containing more
offices in which business is conducted on a
larger scale, than one of the side streets
running parallel to the handsome thoroughfare
of Buchanan Street. At certain business
hours the street is as crowded with
merchants and merchants' clerks, warehousemen,
wholesale dealers in all the commodities
under the sun, as the Broomielaw
is with porters and sailors, the Sautmarket
and the Gorbals with naturalized Highlanders
and Irish, or the different yards and
lanes with craftsmen and mill-hands. When

the swarm of dark-coloured ants hurry
along the pavement, it is clear they mean
business, hearty though the greetings are
which hurst from the deep-throated, deep-chester
pedestrians, worthy of the warm
hearts and frank tongues  careless of singsong
patois  of the mighty men of Clydesdale.
They will not tarry on their errands ;
they have to put their shoulders to the
wheel with a will, to bear up the load imposed
upon them. No doubt these sons of
Anak, like their servants the porters bearing
the material bales and boxes, carry the
burden of engagements and obligations unflinching,
well-nigh swaggering. Still
the giants show an inclination to get their
work done as soon as may be, to allow
greater time for play. Carriage, or dogcart,
or steamer  the last in summer
especially  whirl or puff the men aw r ay to
the country-houses, with their trim avenues
and well-kept parks ; or the villas, luxurious
as those of Roman citizens, bv some monn-

tain-girt loch of the blue Clyde, where
pines replace the olive trees and heather
the roses.

At such early hours as are devoted to
the patron saint of business  shall we say
St. Luke ?  few women, even when tucked
under the wing, or following in the wake
of husband, brother, or son, venture to
bring the light incongruous flutter of their
gowns, and the disturbing element of their
unabsorbed faces into the rank and file of
the workers. Heads of famous houses,
young men with their fortunes yet to make,
press on as if they would trample down all
obstacles, and protest in self-defence ' the
deil tak' the hindmost !'

Who would think that within a day's
journey from that striving, money-making
mass of humanity the solemn Atlantic
breaks on wild, lone shores, where the cry
of the seamen is the only voice to break
the awful stillness ?

Within a certain solidly handsome door,

over which a porter of substance held sway,
up a good staircase, under the circumstances
singularly spotless, any stranger invading
the territory would find another
door, or rather pair of folding-doors, standing
open. One of the doors bore a brass
plate on which had been engraved the
address  ' Messrs. Mackinnon k Murray,
Dyers and Calico-Printers. ' The engraver's
tool had passed over three of the words,
and the place knew its owners no more.
The name which had replaced the others
was that of ' Drysdale.' But though so
much change had been made, the word
Messrs.' was left to read like a foolish
grammatical blunder, or as if the remainder
of the address hung in suspense, which was
the true explanation. The omission was
not by accident, but by design. ' Let
a-be ' the present master of the office had
charged the respectfully-remonstrating engraver.
' That may stand till another Tarn
makes up his mind, and then " k Son'

can easily be added.' He referred with
would-be carelessness to his only son, and
to the chance on which he had set his heart,
that his one boy might join him in his
career, might take up and extend the
threads of all his projects, and, when he
laid them down, might hand them over to a
third generation. There was a little lurking
superstition in the sparing of the
Messrs.' already inscribed there, inappropriate
as it was in the meantime. There
was also the economy, almost parsimony, in
trifles, which, in view of a future exigency,
would save the smallest risk of unnecessary
expense.

Yet this was a man whose intelligence and
enterprise had enabled him to supersede his
masters, rising gradually to their level, and
then soaring far beyond it, building up from a
moderate foundation such a great business
of its kind, as any man of his type might
have been proud to claim for his individual
handiwork. His daily business transactions

involved questions of thousands. He did
not think twice of signing a cheque for one
or two of those thousands, to get possession
of a picture that caught his untutored
fancy rather than his cultivated taste. His
wife's diamonds were as brilliant as any to
be met with in her circle, which was saying
a good deal. He would have given a hundred
for a hunter for his son, if Tarn junior
would have hunted with his compeers, the
young swells of the mercantile world. He
did give as much for a pony phaeton in perfect
keeping, in which Claribel, or even
little Eppie, could drive out her mother.
But he objected all the same to the small
waste in effacing the ' Messrs.' which might
have ample significance in the years yet to
be born.

Tarn Drysdale's office not only held a
large staff, it displayed every modern improvement
and well-considered plan for
their accommodation. Never were clerks
better housed, stooped, or decked ; blessed

with more regular, if long, hours in a press
of business ; ensured greater punctuality at
meal-times, or granted in turn more unfailing,
if limited, holidays. But woe betide
any of these ' pets ' of Tarn Drysdale's, as
they were sometimes termed derisively by
less conscientious masters, if a subordinate
was discovered shirking a duty or slurring
over a task. These acts of cowardly, lubberly
omission were treated as greater
offences than what might have seemed
heavier sins of commission, in the shape of
occasional fits of folly and dissipation.
Tarn Drysdale had the scorn for prodigality
and the disgust at intemperance which
might be expected from a man whose
rise in the world had been, in some degree,
the result of his prudence and sobriety
from youth to middle age. But he had
mercy on a feather-headed lad who had got
into debt for a gold watch and chain before
he had earned them, or a suit of clothes the
price of which was beyond the depth of his

pocket. The employer had also a considerable
amount of rueful pity for a middle-aged
sinner who had at one time stood
several steps higher than Tarn on the social
ladder, but who had lost heart, and sought
desperately to console himself for the slowness
of fortune in favouring him, by buying
Dutch courage and oblivion, in swallowing
the enemy that stole away his brains. On
the other hand, for the lad or man who
trifled or idled, and cheated his master of
his services, Tarn Drysdale was apt to have
judgment without mercy. No wrathful
words of ' lazy blackguard ' or ' useless
scoundrel ' were hot and sharp enough to
launch at the culprit.

Tarn Drysdale sat, like the king in the
nursery rhyme, counting over his money, in
the inner sanctum, which in many respects
reflected the man. The various articles it
contained  desk, table, chairs, carpet 
were at once the very best and the very
plainest of mahogany, morocco, and .

T. 4

terminate. The place was the essence of
commercial comfort, and even neatness, as
if a woman and not a man drew up the
blinds, set the chairs at the proper angles,
arranged the ledgers, and filed the papers.
The room was almost ostentatiously complete,
but there was an absence of luxury, a
failure to recognise or claim any article that
was out of the ordinary catalogue of office
furniture, an impatience, bordering on contempt,
of finery or frippery here, though it
might be very well at Dry sd ale Hall.

Tarn Drysdale, leaning back in his chair,
summing up an account with a little knit in
his brow, was not far above fifty years of
age, and in spite of all he had done before
he reached his half-century he did not
look older. He was a hale man still, not
beyond abundantly capable middle life. He
was below the ordinary standard of his
native district with regard to size. He was
not the ' braw man ' whose stature alone
ensures him popular admiration in the west

of Scotland. He was little above the middle
height, and he was so finely built that he
looked less than he was. But it was a
why slightness, and a delicacy that was
tempered like the keenness of steel. There
were force and activity in every well-knit,
cleanly cut limb and feature ; and the time
had been when, in spite of his antagonists'
greater height and weight, Tarn Drysdale
had excelled in various muscular sports
calling for more than accuracy of eye and
speed of foot, such as quoits, shinty, etc.

Tarn's clothes were of the best broadcloth,
but old-fashioned and somewhat
clumsy, as w T ell as out of date. There was
a suspicion of uncouthness in the style of
the coat and vest, down to the very shoes
which were not boots, that vexed the soul of
Mrs. Drysdale, and even of Claribel, though
young Eppie never could see that her father
was anything save perfect, both in his outer
and inner man. The truth was that Tarn
very indulgent to his womankind in most

42


 Illic

particulars  became restive and utterly unmanageable
when he was pursued into the
holes and corners of what he reckoned his
own affairs. He would not desert his old
tailor, who had made Tarn's wedding suit
and risen in the world with him, so far asa
one-horse chaise and a villa at Gourock,
though the poor fellow did not follow all
the freaks of fashion, and could not please a
parcel of fools of women. Tarn would not
make a puppy or an ass of himself by dressing
in a manner which would better befit
his son. This was supposing that young
Tarn ever condescended, nowadays, to
appear in a coat superior to the last year's
shooting-jacket, which was decidedly the
worse of the wear, as his father's coats never
were.

In like manner, no power, less than his
Queen's command, would have induced Tarn
to drive in his well-appointed carriage to
the door of his office. He stuck to the
point that better men than he contented

themselves with arriving at their places of
business on their feet, or at most in their
dogcarts, and he would never shame himself
and them by instituting an odious comparison.
He would not make himself a laughingstock
to his fellows  including his old
cronies and his very clerks, who would be
fully justified in saying that Tarn Drysdale
was as vain as a peacock, and had forgotten
the nest he had sprung from.

The carriage was in Glasgow several
days a week with Mrs. Drysdale and the
girls, and, for the sake of their company,
the owner of the equipage would consent to
meet it at some appointed place, as far out
of the way of his ordinary haunts and associations
as possible, and would drive home
in a species of incognita with his family.
However, this was a weakness to be carefully
concealed. None of Tain's vainglory
rampant enough elsewhere  broke forth
in this direction. He positively hid his
diminished head, and shrank out of sight

when he was detected in the deed. He
would no more have been guilty of driving
in solitary state through those familiar
Glasgow streets, where he had been wont
to walk in fustian, than he would have
worn a feather or a jewel in his hat.

Me in a carriage for my convenience !
humph ! a cadger's cart would set me
better,' he would sa' ironically. ' What
would folk think ? What would folk say ?'
(Tarn was apt to regard himself as the
cynosure of every eye, a source of endless
interest and speculation to his public.)
1 Plenty of them to see that knew a' about
me when I had not a couple of bawbees to
rub upon one anther. No, no ! I'm not
such a gowk as that comes to. I'll not seta
pack of impudent fellows jeering and sneering.
A carriage is all very well for mother,
who is a woman and has married a rich
man. Moreover, she deserves the best, and
she shall have it, as sure as my name's
Tarn Drysdale, as nice a turn-out as is to be

seen in Glasgow. Neither the Provost nor
Sir James can beat it. For the young folk,
they've been born with silver spines in
their mouths, if that dour devil, young
Tarn, would only sup foot of his spine and
be thankful. But I was born to nothing
better than a horn cutty [spoon] , and a
ducat will serve my turn, as it has
served mony a better man and mony a real
gentleman born and bred.'

Tarn had a great deal of appreciation,
almost tender in its kind, of real gentlemen
and ladies. He never ' event ' himself to
be one of them ; he never ' event '
1 mother,' much as he thought of her, and
proud as he was of her achievements in
social life. Certainly he was inclined to
put an inordinate value on his success ; he
hugged himself on all that money could
procure and bestow. He boasted that no
duke, no prince, need come before him in
the excellence and costliness of his surroundings.
Money would buy the best,

and the Lest Tain Drysdale, who had risen
and thriven, would have in house and stud
and cellar.

More than that  and Tain justly laid
emphasis on the consideration  money
would enable a man to benefit his fellow -
creatures, to give them work, to insist that
they should not live like brutes, to take
measures for their higher civilization. Butin
estimating the power of money, he drew
the line with regard to what it could do
beneath inherited gentle breeding. He
never failed in the respect which belonged
by right in his judgment to ancient gentility,
however reduced in circumstances. He
testified instinctively and unhesitatingly his
honour for that to which neither he nor
'mother' could ever attain.

Nay, Tarn had his doubts whether his
very children could pretend to be a real
gentleman and real ladies till another
generation or two had lived and died.
They might not do it  not young Tarn,

who was clever and college bred, and, if he
did not awe, troubled his father considerably;
not Claribel, who was as independent,
had as fine a time of it, and was as innocent
of considering anything beyond her
own will and pleasure, as the American girls
to whom she bore some resemblance ; not
even little Eppie, who was as kind and
guileless as her mother, and was both her
father and mother's darling. Young Tarn
and the rest of them were on the way to
what was beyond auld Tarn's aspirations ;
but they had not yet, with all the advantages
their father had been proud to buy
for them, reached the desirable goal.

Gentlemen and ladies, pure and simple,
were removed several degrees from common
clay in Tarn Drysdale's eyes. This implied
no sycophancy or slavishness on the man's
part. He could assert his claims, if anything,
a trifle too loudly. It belonged
rather to a broad sense of justice which
would be fair to every man, and own in

another what he himself could not win 
just as he expected that other to admit
Tarn Drysdale's superior achievements in
his own line. It might have something todo
with Tarn's nationality ; with the feudal
element, the loyalty to heads of houses and
clans which long survived in some form in
Scotch society ; with the slight but indestructible
strain of poetry which often underlies
the prosaic matter-of-factness of Lowland
Scotch natures. Anyhow, there was
found in the man this relieving trait of
generous admiration and regard for what
was not tangible property, and for what,
unlike tangible property, could not be taken
by assault on the part of the nouveau rich:,
the conqueror of modern times. The sentiment
formed part of a composite character,
and unquestionably it softened, to a wonderful
extent, the vulgarity of the contrasting
traits of self-sufficiency and ostentation.

Tarn Drysdale's face was so clean shaven
that it not only rejected beard and moustache,

it barely admitted of the most
modestly cropped and abridged rather
stubbly brown whisker to match the brown
hair, hardly dashed with grey. It was a
decidedly handsome face, of a massive type,
with a square jaw, a square forehead, a good
straight nose, and a good full mouth, which
no self-indulgence had spoilt ; while neither
had a humid climate nor the apples and
pears of the Clydeside orchards done anything
to impair the whiteness and regularity
of the strong even teeth, one of the many
signs of health about the man. The colouring
of the face was fresh, with its native
ruddiness just toned down by office-work ;
but the hands, which had once been stained
all the colours of the rainbow in the dye-vats,
were now only too white and soft 
not brown and hacked like young Tarn's,
or even like those of young Eppie, who
had a weakness for playing at boy's
games.

Taken all in all, the aspect of the calico-printer

was wholesome and attractive, and
it had much of the quiet power and burgher
dignity which are to be found in inane
Dutch and Flemish portraits.

TAM Dryad ALE'S ALLIES.

It was impossible to stand aside and watch
what went on in Tarn Drysdale's office,
without seeing that he was a man of mark
and influence in his sphere, not only by the
number of men and of letters, in the interests
of calico-printing and Turkey-red dyeing,
constantly appearing on the scene, but by
the tone which each speaker and writer
adopted in approaching Tarn. He was virtually
acknowledged a leader of men in his
calling. His opinion was consulted, his
arbitration asked, his decision accepted.
His word was in a manner law. He sat or
stood there, a king in his domain. All who
entered it paid him homage. His clerks

were on the alert to meet his requirements.
His wishes were anticipated. When he
moved, everyone figuratively stood up ;
though literally no one hated form and
ceremony more heartily than Tam Drysdale
hated them. He was simple  one would
say personally unassuming and exacting
in his habits, even in his greatest vanity. It
was not that the man was a tyrant, or a
martinet, or a fool, that he was so served
and observed. It was a curious tribute to the
natural strength of character, and a certain
trust  inspiring, uncompromising honesty,
which had always distinguished him.

Tam Drysdale 's clientele were of an
agreeably varied description. They did not
come all on the same day, but specimens
of them turned up frequently. Old city
magnates, much more imposing and fashionable
than the man the 7 called on, who gave
his broad shoulders a shake, and termed his
visitors 'new-fangled;' grave and reverend
signors, pursy and fussy, in the sister trade

of cotton, who could have cut huge slices
from the national debt, swallowed them
wholesale, and not felt themselves seriously
the worse. Bankers and lawyers who have
always an interest in a man of capital ;
clergymen who feel bound in duty to themselves
to avail themselves of the command
of the mammon of unrighteousness, in return
for their oversight of a parishioner's soul.
Young fops and bucks who condescended to
know something of the mysteries of bleaching,
dyeing, and printing, that these might
procure the sinews of war wherewith towage
a feud to death with the fishes in the
sea, the foxes on the hillsides, the grouse
on the moors, or to keep up without stint or
stay the luxuries of the gentlemen's yachts,
the amenities of their clubs, the splendour
of their balls.

One of the richest of these young men
sauntered in, and was treated with unmistakable
coolness and stiffness ; while
the proposal that he was there to make was

curtly rejected. There had been a question
of a lawsuit of no great moment in which
both men were engaged. The dispute referred
to an encroachment on a patent in
which they were equally interested. The
abuse had not gone far, and the penalty
which might be exacted would only amount
to a moderate sum of money, of little consequence
to a man with Tom Drysdale's
income. On the other hand, the suit was
likely to be both troublesome and prolonged,
and all the other persons engaged in it, with
the exception of the lawyers, sought to quash
it at this stage. But this Tarn flatly refused
to do.

'I wull not, sir,' he said, his politeness
becoming more marked, while his dialect
grew broader, under the provocation. * It
is the principle I care for ; it is justice I
want ; I will have the knavish trick exposed.
Base loons, who knew perfectly well what
they were about when they used the stamp !
Punish a starving man for picking my pocket,

and let off lazy rascals who have not the wit
to know a good discovery when it is laid
before them, but are cunning enough to set
themselves to steal it, and grow rich at the
expense of others ! Never.'

The young man had to return more
quickly than he came, muttering between
his teeth, when he had passed out of the
inner office, ' A dour old brute. Grist to
the lawyers' mill.'

The last of Tarn Drysdale's levee were
honest practical bleachers and dyers, who
came to report progress in contract, to
seek employment, to enter into an alliance
offensive and defensive with the master
of the Drysdale Haugh Works. Of this
class, though of a different sex from the
other members, was a respectable modest-looking
young woman, not more than comely
in her personal appearance, and, though
clean and neat in her dress  a calico gown,
black cape, and straw bonnet  altogether
sober and out of date beyond her three or

VOL. I. 5

four and twenty years. To her Tarn Drys-clare
turned with marked courtesy, and
showed a reflection of fatherly kindness in
his manner, as lie rose up, waved her to a
chair in his private room, and closed the
door behind her.

Come wa' in, Mary, my woman ; I'm
very gled to see you. Sit you down and
rest you : you've had a long drive this dull
grey day. How's your father ? Eh lass !
but I mind him a fine man, the kindliest
[most stalwart] bleacher far and near.
Well,' in a more subdued, sympathetic tone,
in answer to a sorrowful shake of the young
woman's head, 'the strongest of us must
grow weak as water when our time comes,
and he is well off to have a gude doctor
like you, Mary, since his gude wife is gone,
to hold together the bit bleaching-ground,
and keep the pot and the kettle boiling, and
mind the other motherless weans. I'll tell
you what, Mary Coates, though you should
not hear it, maybe, you're the very picture

of your mither ; you're a fine, discreet,
extent simmer [diligent girl] that any
father might be proud of, and that some
lad will be blithe, as well he may be, to
call his marrow some day. You shall
never want any small help that I can give
you in your most honourable career, both
for your father and mither's sakes and for
your ain !' exclaimed Tarn Drysdale, striking
his hand on his desk in the determined
manner of a man who had long been unaccustomed
to contradiction, and who could
rise to enthusiasm on occasions.

1 Oh, sir, sir, bide a wee [wait a little]
till you hear a' before you praise me so
cried Mary Coates, who instead of sitting
down in the comfortable chair offered to
her, stood disconsolately by the table, crushing
a passbook between her trembling
cotton-gloved fingers. ' I have not brocht
you back a penny of the loan you were so
gude as to gie us, that should have been
paid this last term. I have tried my best,

52

but trade has been slack and wages high,
and father's doctor and medicines mak' sic
a hole in what is laid by, that I have got
no farther than the interest, which I think
you'll find correct. Father said I was
bald to come wi' that alone, when it was
the principal that should have been paid,
and you were aye a man who stood by your
word and your day. But I thocht the
interest was better than nothing. It
would show at least,' with the faintest dry
sob, which decent reserve stopped in her
throat, ' that I was trying  that I would
fain pay a', if I could

That you would, Mary, my fine lass !'
cried Tarn almost fiercely, with a suspicion
of moisture in his own keen, clear eyes,
and so would your mither before you  a
gude stock, root and branch, that's what
you are ; and what's a form or half a dozen
of terms' credit more or less between me
and your father and mither's doctor ? But
I'll take the interest, because I think that

will be best, and I ken it will go nearest to
contenting you. Then you'll tell me what
I can do to put a job into your father's
hands, without letting on [mentioning it] ;
it will be a secret between you and me 
after you've given me the news of him and
the weans. Now, no thanks, Mary ; I
cannot abide them he stopped to say
peremptorily, ' least of all from a gude
young lass like you ; you'll oblige me by
leaving them out, while you sit down there
till I write you a receipt.'

Before Mary Coates left, Tarn Drysdale
went into the outer office and called one
of his senior clerks to speak aside with
him.

'Mr. Dunlop, I've Miss Coates of the
Cairnie Burn Bleaching Green with me. I
want you to take her round to Ferguson's,
and see that she has the best luncheon that
can be had in the place. She has a long-road
to drive back to Cairnie Burn. Then
I want you to look over the orders and see

if there is any job within Coates's powers
that you can hand over to him.'

1 Very well, sir,' answered Mr. Dunlop, a
dapper little man with a top of hair, not ten
years younger than his master.

He spoke more resignedly than with the
briskness natural to him. He had been
taught by his grown-up daughters (Glasgow
men in his class marry young) to estimate
women who were not intimately connected
with him a good deal by the quality and
style of their dress ; and he did not relish
passing through the busiest streets of Glasgow,
where he was well-known, 'to the
restaurant, in company with ' a countrified,
common-looking lassie like Mary Coates,'
at the hour when a multitude of other
clerks were going to their dinners.

Tarn Drysdale was quick to perceive the
reluctance and fiery to resent the slight to
the object of his attentions.

Dod, man!' he cried, with an angry
snort, using the familiar form of address

that cropped up in his speech occasionally
to the older clerks, who had been fellow-servants
with him in ' Mackinnon and
Murray's,' before there was any thought of
a clerk becoming a master, or Drysdale
Haugh returning to the hands of a Drysdale.
If you have any serious objections I'll rax
down my hat and go myself'. Willie and
Jean Coates's doctor  as fine a lass as
ever stepped  shall not be looked down
upon or held at arm's length, so long as I
can prevent it.'

I have no serious objection, Mr. Drysdale,'
said Dunlop hastily, but still a little
drily ; ' why should I ? I'll do my best
for the party you mention, and I'll see to
the orders,' seeking to change the subject,
and at the same time not without a malicious
desire to hit a weak point in his
superior's armour. ' I thought, sir, you
objected to giving them out ; that you held
the small bleaching and dyeing works were
a mistake  a sort of snare to the petty

bleachers and dyers, who came to loss and
ruin in the end, so that the whole of them
works and men  should be suffered to
die a natural death.'

There is no rule without an exception,'
said Tarn shortly, for he hated inconsistency
either in himself or in another.
Never mind what I said  I suppose I may
speak at random, like my neighbours, when
I do not choose to wale [choose] my words,
as if they were said in the hearing of an
enemy. But you are nobody's enemy,
Geordie Dunlap, that I ever heard tell of '
he corrected himself with recovered good
humour  ' unless your ain whiles. For
you're a gabby [talkative] creature, and will
speak up for your way of the matter, in
season and out of season, as long as the
breath is left in your body. Do as I bid
you, and let us hear nae mail o't.'

Tarn Drysdale turned on his heel, and
when he was in his room and the door
shut on Mary Coates and her escort, he

reflected for a moment, with his hands
in his pockets, before he dismissed the whole
subject, and gave his mind to some of the
many other questions demanding his attention.


Set Geordie Dunlap up !' he mused  ' a
gusedib laddie, a ragged callant no so langsyne.
No doubt it's all the more credit to
him to have worked his way up to a gude
coat on his back, a gude house at Pollock
an elder's seat in a U.P. Kirk, and
lodgings for his family for a month at a
time, instead of just the Fair-days, down
the water. But he's of another stock to
the Coates ; as well even them to the Duke's
race. I'm not come from the dirt myself.
There were Drysdales in the Loaning, not
so far from Drysdale Hall, as soon as there
were Coates in Cairnie Bum, and Laments
in the Crook. But the Coates and the
Laments were a cast above the Drysdales
when 1 came into the world. They had
kept their bits of crofts when my father,

though he was next-of-kin to Drysdale of
Drysdale Haugh and the dye-works, had
gone to the dogs. I mind when I would
have been a proud man to have counted
myself fit to walk by Jean Laraont's side
through the streets of Glasgy. Yet Geordie
Dunlap, the auld puppy, thinks shame to
be seen with Jean's dislike doctor Mary.
Bowls run round, no doubt, and I grant,
though I've the greatest  the very greatest
respect for the fine lass who is so like
her douce, sonsy mither, I am not free to
say, after all, that I would have cared to
convoy her myself through the streets to
the eating-house, or the inn where her beast
is put up. A man is forced to mind the
look of the thing and what belongs to his
position. I might have met Clary with
some of her fine graith, and it might have
put the bairn about ; though she's not given
to mind, which I, who have lifted her up to
a higher footing, have no right to do. It's
all for the best. Jean Lamont chose Willie

Coates, as she had every right to do  I said
it at the time, before I had won any title to
speer her price, and ask her if she would
not look at me. There was no wrong done,
and Willie was my friend, pair chief', that
never reminded me how a Drysdale had
fallen out of the ranks, and was no longer
a mate for him any more than for Jean
Lamont. I could not wish him harm,
though harm enough  death, sickness,
and poverty  have long had him in their
grip, without any wish of mine. And I
have thriven, and married bonnie Eppie
Mercer  than whom a better and a bonnier
wife, and a kinder soul, could not have
been given to a man. She has borne me
three dislike bairns, and I'm content if
they'll but be pleased with a sigh spared
from his complacency for young Tarn, who
was unreasonably ill to please.

TAM DRYSDALE AT DRYSDALE HALL.

This was not one of the days when any of
Tarn Drysdale's womankind were in the
town with the carriage, laying an obligation
on him to make his way to them ; for he
did not care that they should come to him,
unless they walked to the office and accompanied
him on foot to the private corner at
which he was to sink Tarn Drysdale the
city man, and take up Tarn Drysdale the
proprietor of Drysdale Hall and of its sundry
equipages, who was bound to show himself
sometimes in the second character. On the
present occasion he could drive out to his
country house in the modest state which,
as a matter of personal propriety and taste,

he preferred  starting from the office door,
not without a little commotion within and
a little flourish without, nodding to the
various acquaintances he met, and looking
about him like a man at his ease.

Tarn had driven along that road almost
every lawful day for a number of years.
He knew and noticed all the landmarks both
in town and country. He was at leisure to
observe them, for although, like most countrymen,
in whatever station they have been
reared, he could drive, the practice did not
recommend itself to him, as it would have
lent itself to a younger, more self-conscious
or more restless man. He liked his own
particular groom, a steady old countryman
like himself, to drive. The master was on
the best terms with the servant, unless when
Simpson, for the sake of his horse, his
honour, or the principle of the thing, like
his master, felt bound to cry out against a
bad habit of Tarn Drysdale's. This was a
practice of letting the children that he passed

twice every day on the road, going to and
from the parish school, hang on behind the
dogcart during the slow progress of the horse,
after it had slackened its pace to accomplish
the ascent of a hill which was in convenient
proximity to the children's village.

Sir, it's what no ae beast in a thousand
would put up wi,' remonstrated Simpson,
every time, looking grimly over his shoulder,
and fingering his whip with the strongest
inclination to lash out behind, though he
was a man and a father when he did not
happen to be touched in a professional
quarter. ' What will folk think of our
driving wi' sic a tail at our heels ? It's not
respectable. Forbye, these bairns will goto
the mischief some day, through being let
tak' such unwarrantable liberties with a
gentleman's ducat and horse.'

And driver,' added Tarn Drysdale, with
a twinkle in his e} r es. ' Do you no mind,
Simpson, how grand sic a ride was langsyne
? How it tasted all the sweeter because

there was the risk of a backward cut across
your fingers and your face, and you left
dancing with the pain of the worst palmy
you ever got, in the middle of the road. I
cannot find it in my heart to deprive the
pair bit things of the pleasure. There, be
aff, bairns !' he admonished his tail, as the
curricle reached the brow of the hill. ' The
horse will be wa' again like a fire-fraught
in a couple 0' minutes, and hare some of
you down in the stour, wi' broken banes, if
ye cinna tak' care.'

The dull, grey spring day cleared up
when the heavy pall of city smoke was left
behind, and the sun shone in a blue sky,
dappled with white clouds over a green
country  a fair morsel which had escaped
the pits and blast furnaces that honeycomb
and blacken the earth, and burn with a red
glare throughout the night, for many a mile
around Glasgow. Here was left a remnant
of the orchards and woods which once made
the whole of Clyde's banks ' bonnie.' The

humid air that comes on the wings of the
west wind promoted verdure, and rendered
the spring vegetation early and luxuriant
beyond any standard it attained on the
bleak east coast.

But it was not a spot given up to Pallas
and Pomona. Their province was not un-invaded.
Tarn Drysdale's works were within
a mile of his house, or hall as he had chosen
to call it ; but whatever their offences, they
were mild by comparison with those of the
coal and iron plagues. The stretch of
meadows devoted to bleaching glistened
white in the spring sunshine, as if strewn
and silvered with millions of go was. The
dyeing and printing operations either did
not include all the chemical abominations
of St. Pillar's, or dispersed them over -
large an area that they were little felt.
They might colour with a sanguine hue. for
the most part, the water of Aytoun  the
tributary of the Clyde on which the works
were built  and poison the fishes, at least

so anglers complained ; but the compounds
did not impregnate the air with hideous
odours, or disfigure the landscape with
blights.

Indeed, as Tarn Drysdale drew near the
house he had made for himself, just as
Geordie Dunlap had been figuratively the
architect of his ' bien' house at Pollokshields,
Tarn held up his head and snuffed the air
with a great increase of satisfaction. The
fields and hedgerows on each side of the road
were part of the inheritance to which, though
it had belonged to his forefathers, he had
not succeeded by ordinary succession from
his father and his father's cousin, the old
laird of the land and owner of the dye-works.
What was far better in Tarn's eyes,
he had won them back by the sweat of his
brow and the wit of his brain, and valuing
them by the cost of the acquisition, he did
not believe there were fields or hedgerows
like them in Lanark  nay, in broad Scotland.
The cattle and sheep in the pastures,

vol. t.

the horses in the furrows, were his. It is
doubtful whether he did not also claim the
crows in the air. If the office in Glasgow
was a srmt to which his mind went out, for
which he started with a will, to be in the
swing of business, Drysdale Hall, down to
every clod of its clay and stone of its walls,
was .the pride of his heart, like his wife
Eppie and his son Tain. The latter, though
he thwarted and galled his father because
he was his son, his only son, his might and
the beginning of his strength. ' the excellency
of dignity and the excellency of power,"
however contumacious he might prove, came
nearer to Tarn's heart than either of his
daughters  even than his young pet Eppie.
It is hard, after all, to say whether a
man loves more profoundly, with a more
passionate attachment, the paternal acres
which have belonged to his race from time
immemorial, on which he first saw the light,
that have been associated with every act of
his life, or the land which he lias bought

by the hard toil of his youth and manhood,
the fruits of which are the fruits of
his own labours, the reward of his self-devotion.
Drysdale Haugh had in some
measure both of these claims on Tarn
Drysdale.

Drysdale Hail had only escaped being a
huge staring pile of white masonry from
the circumstance that Tarn, proud as he
was to have built up a house, was also
proud, with the Scotch hankering after
gentle birth, that the place had belonged to
Drysdales long before it had come into the
hands of Mackinnons or Murrayss, and that
these Drysdales had not simply been
respectable ye omen-farmers  they had
been enterprising enough to erect dye-works
on their property, and they had been undeniably
' sib ' to his less flourishing branch
of the Drysdales. For this reason Tarn had
spared the old farmhouse of Drysdale
Haugh, and left it the nucleus of the new
building, rendering it more incongruous

62

certainly, but less raw and purely aggressive.


The farmhouse had been, and was still,
a two-storied building of substantial freestone,
with a heavy stone porch, the whole
grown over with ivy, which, luckily, its
present proprietor had spared, not so much
from a sense of its beauty, as because of its
memories, especially one tender recollection
linked with it. He had been held up by
his mother to see his first bird's-nest under
the glossy, dark green leaves on a Sunday
evening, one of the rare occasions when the
poor relative had been invited to visit the
rich. To this ivied centre, with its small
windows and narrow door, no longer suitable
for a main entrance, Tarn had tacked
on two spacious wings fit to fly away with
the body of the house between them. The
hall, with its big door, was in one of these
wings ; the other ran out in a long restored
building which was, in fact, Tarn's
picture-gallery, where lie stored the specimens

of art he had taken pains and delight
in collecting.

Originally the farmhouse stood in a little
garden on the edge of a backyard, built, for
winnowing purposes, on the side of a hill.
Garden and backyard, with the old farm-offices,
had alike disappeared, and the
ground was converted into a really fine
terrace, commanding not only Tarn's snow-white
bleach-fields, but much of the adjoining
country. The hillside, which had been
transformed into the terrace, had descended
naturally into a little wooded den that
remained enclosed in the grounds, and
served for a short avenue. A somewhat
perking porter's lodge, guarding gorgeously
wrought iron gates, led from the high-road
into the carriage-drive that now ran through
the den, and terminated with a broad sweep
on the terrace. Nature had done something
for Tarn's mansion; and his architect
had availed himself of nature in a praiseworthy
manner.

On the opposite side of the house were
the gardens and greenhouses, of some extent,
maintained with a sovereign disregard of
expense. Beyond the gardens lay the
stables, coach-house, kennels, and servants'
offices generally ; and there, whatever
drainage, ventilation, encaustic tiles, and
every recent invention could do for the comfort
and well-being of man and beast, was
done thoroughly, to the credit of Tarn Drysdale
and his myrmidons  be they builders,
grooms, or grieves.

So perfect was the smooth order in every
department, where money, freely used without
abuse, served to oil the wheels of the
domestic machine, that the Drysdale Hall
farm - offices, like the Drysdale Haugh
Works, figured as models for men to copy.
Strangers would bring introductions, and
request to be taken over the place. Sir
James Semple, of Semple Barns, who was
Tarn Drysdale's next neighbour, and on
the best terms with him, brought three-fourths

of his visitors to wonder and
admire.

As Tarn Drysdale drove along the
terrace, at the well-known sound of his
wheels, greetings met him from two different
quarters, with a swiftness suggestive of the
pleasant explanation that he had been
watched and waited for.

In the porch of the old part of the
house, which now sheltered a side door,
there suddenly stood, framed by the ivy
and rose boughs, which were only sending
out green shoots as yet, Eppie the elder,
Eppie the matron. Mrs. Drysdale was
already dressed for dinner, like a rose in
full bloom, in her rich dark silk, and
always with fluttering lace and pink ribands
about her head and throat  unless when
she went into company, and replaced the
ribands by flow T hers, dew-dropped with
diamonds. She was persuaded that they
1 set ' her, and that Tarn liked her with
pink bows and strings, such as she had

worn in her Sunday bonnet (she called it
hat though it was no hat), long before
the days that she put on caps, when he had
come to the kirk where her family
worshipped, to meet and court her in the
face of the congregation  like an honest
man  as well as to pray to his Maker like
a good Christian.

Mistress Eppie was buxom and bonnie
still, of a type of beauty  dark-haired,
dark-eyed, white-skinned, with summer
roses on the cheeks, and teeth white as
milk, between ripe red lips  which, if not
peculiar to Clydeside, is oftener met there
than elsewhere. It belongs to strapping-lasses
who are matches for stalwart men,
though in this case the wife was not more
strapping than the husband was stalwart ;
both had missed the superior stature which
is the frequent accompaniment of their
style of good looks. Mrs. Drysdale was
accustomed to say, with apologetic regret,
that her Tarn and herself were but ' sma'

bouket ' (of short stature), matched with
many of their compeers. Husband and
wife were alike in this respect, as in many
another. If the type has little of what is
purely intellectual or spiritual, it has, as
has been said with regard to Tarn Drysdale's
comely person, a great deal that is wholesome
and full of health and vigour, that
will endure, and, what is more, will retain
much of its attractiveness after the black or
auburn hair is grey, and the fresh, firm
cheek withered and shrunken in its wintry
red.

Mrs. Drysdale came out to meet her
husband, as she had come, unless necessity
was laid upon her to be elsewhere, ever
since the two had become one. She had
done it when Tarn had taken her first to a
four-roomed house in a village street, when
she had but to cross the threshold into the
allan, to greet the young working-man
trudging home after his day's toil. She
had known the sound of his foot then, as

she knew the sound of his horse's feet today.
She never failed him when she had
a grand staircase and a long corridor to
traverse, instead of a doorstep to cross.
He was still the light of her eyes, whom
it was as natural for her to hail, as it is for
the newly-awakened sleeper, after the hours
of darkness have passed, to turn instinctively
to catch the first stray beams of light. A
contented and happy woman in most respects,
as she found herself, it was still her
night when Tarn was up in Glasgow at
his office, or even over at his bleach-fields
and dye-works ; her day when he came
home with the sunset or the starlight to
her and the bairns, to be theirs till the next
morning rose and called him forth to play
his man's part of making a great business,
earning a heap of money, and being a
prince among his fellows. And she was
sure that Tarn was glad to see her standing
there, the first to welcome him, though in
his proud, shy. Scotch way he said no more

than, ' Well, are you there, mother ?'  as
if he ever expected her to he elsewhere ! 
What have you all been about the day V

The pink bows and ends of her ribands
were a little too much like a reflected glow
from her cheeks, brighter and less delicate
than of yore. Her dress had a tendency to
rustle. There was an excess of trimness
about it in every plait and pucker. She
was too smart. The very apron which she
wore, though she was dressed for dinner,
was embroidered in silks all over, and she
had too many and too costly rings on her
plump white fingers.

She had somehow managed, with misdirected
ambition, to give an undesirable
varnish to the native Doric of her tongue,
which, in robbing it of its simple rusticity,
lent it a false lustre that by no means improved
its quality. She shared with her
husband a positively exasperating exuberance
of satisfaction with their acquisitions
and surroundings, so as to tempt the world

into seeking to lower the couple, were it
only by an inch, from their pinnacle of
self-conceit. It served as a mortifying
reminder to their friends that Mr. and Mrs.
Drysdale, in spite of their many virtues,
were made of common clay after all : for
if man and wife had been composed of finer,
rarer stuff, they would have understood for
themselves that a man's life does not consist
in the things he possesses ; they would
have known that wealth can do no more
than confer the lower gratifications, and
would have ceased to be infatuatedly elated
by their outward prosperity.

The other person, who opened a French
window on the ground floor of the new part
of the building, and came skipping out of
it, the faster to reach and greet Tarn
Drysdale on his arrival, was likewise a
woman. She also had been wonderfully
constant in her attentions since she had
been able to toddle, with or without her
mother or nurse's consent, into dangerous

proximity to the horse's feet, sidling up to
the dogcart, standing confidently, her little
face one broad grin, which cast out the
smallest conception of fear of repulse, till
she should have her reward. It was to get
the whip, twice as long as herself, to hold,
or to be caught up and tossed in strong
arms, placed in the seat of honour, and
driven up and down the terrace, shrieking
with delight at the promotion. This was
Eppie the younger, who had grown from
a lovely child to a slim and beautiful
girl of sixteen  such a juvenile copy of
her mother in hair, eyes, complexion, teeth,
smile, in her very fondness for soft pink,
like the colour of her own cheeks  that
the striking likeness between the mature
matron and the slender lass became almost
comical in the points of agreement and of
difference in the two versions of the same
original.

Little Eppie, in the changed circumstances
into which she fitted, had even caught

up something of the broad Scotch which 
varnished or unvarnished  fell, as a matter
of course, from the elder lips, but sounded
so quaintly on the younger. Eppie's brother
and sister were free from this lingering
distinction. Mrs. Drysdale could pride herself
on the fact that her son, young Tam,
and her elder daughter, Clary, spoke as if
they were reading out of a printed book.
Young Tam did so from sheer earnestness ;
Claribel from set purpose, in all moods. It
was not so in Eppie's case ; and with traces
of the speech she had inherited a portion of
the rustic tastes in which the heads of the
house now only indulged as a relaxation  a
private relaxation. To eat oat-cake and
drink buttermilk, when they might have had
the richest of plum cake and the driest of
champagne ; to sup on new potatoes and
salt herrings, when the eaters might have
dined at the same hour on turbot and turkey,
or salmon and lamb, were treats to Epping
less than to her father and mother  only

the girl, if she had got her own way, would
not have taken them surreptitiously.

There were other enjoyments for which
Eppie had an hereditary inclination, though
the knowledge of them could only have come
to her by hearsay. She would have liked
to work in the harvest-field, to seek and
find hens' nests and bring in the eggs, to
carry home every sick chicken and deserted
lamb she could come across, and become
its foster-mother. She would have liked
to milk the cows, and in default of so high
and hopeless an attainment, she haunted the
dairy to skim the milk in the basins and
press the whey from the curd in the cheese-tubs.
She would, if there had been any
chance of her gaining permission, have
sought to ride her pony bare-backed, and
tried to groom him with her own little
hands.

Claribel cared for none of these practices
any more than if she had been born a
duchess; indeed, the chance was that if

she had been her Grace, she would have
looked at them longingly, as Princess Elizabeth
looked at the milkmaid carrying her
pails.

If Claribel Drysdale suffered herself to
feel aggrieved by any of the manifold contradictions
in the bearing of the family, it
was by her younger sister Eppie's perverse
disposition ' to run wild,' as Claribel called
it emphatically, in aping primitive sayings
and doings which were all very well, or at
least excusable, in her father and mother,
who were elderly, and had been more plainly
brought up. Claribel would never allow
herself to approach nearer to the hole whence
she had been dug than such a vague phrase
as this. But it was wrong as well as absurd
in Eppie  such folly would damage her
prospects if she were let alone  her conduct
might even prove injurious to the fortunes
of the rest of the family.

As it had happened, this was one of the
instances in which Claribel's power failed.

Her mother, to whom she was polite, sometimes
even affectionate, stood greatly in awe
of her elder daughter, still more so than of
her son Tarn. Claribel had also an odd
double influence over her father. He respected
in her the education and tastes
which were beyond him : and he felt bound
to support her, in the career which he had
opened up for her, by removing, as far as
possible, every hindrance out of her path.
Altogether, Mr. and Mrs. Drysdale might
have been worked upon to the painful extent
of denying themselves a good deal of Eppie's
society, checking her in the very expressions
and practices she had learnt through love
for them and sympathy with them, and
sending her away to the finishing school of
which Clary so often spoke.

But Eppie was a tower of strength in
herself. She proved too much for them
here. She had no more fear of her sister
Clary than their brother young Tarn had.
She laughed at and defied her. Clary was

vol. 1. 7

all very well sometimes, when Eppie had
toothache and Clary nursed her, or when
Clary was in a communicative mood, and
chose to give the details of her parties ; then
she was ' a dear and quite nice and
amusing. At other times she was ' prideful
and upsetting and had little time or attention
to spare for home. But in neither
case was she ever to come between Eppie
and her father and mother. She would not
yield her consent to being sent away from
her happy home, Drysdale Hall, neither
would her father and mother have the heart
to force her.

Why, what would they do without her ?
Who would bring father his slippers and
his posy ? Who would cut his hair and
read the newspapers to him ? Who would
be mother's companion when father was at
business, help her to give her orders, and
see the stores weighed out, and be her little
'prentice housekeeper ? No doubt Clary
pretended there was no need for mother to

keep house when Mrs. Wood was so clever
and experienced, and had been housekeeper
as well as cook to Lady Semple's brother
as if mother could live without a house
to keep, although there were twenty Mrs.
Woods to do it for her ! Who would walk
to the gardens and the washing-green with
mother, and gather the lavender, and pull
and shell the peas, and fold the clothes, as
she was fond of doing ; and surely mother
could please herself, and do what she chose,
else where was the good of her being
married to father, a rich man, Eppie would
like to know ?

Why, mother would feel quite lonesome
and eerie in a great big house like Drysdale
Hall, though Tarn and Clary were both ' to
the fore.' Little good they were  Tarn
buried in his books and papers, and Clary
away with her grand friends. Mother
must have her silly little daughter Eppie
to sit and sew beside her, and get her to
tell stories about the sewing-school and the

72

singing-school mother attended when she
was young ; and how she had sold her
mother's butter and cheese so well that she
had been granted a quarter at the dressmaking,
where she had been clever, and
picked up enough of the trade to make all
Tarn and Clary's frocks when the children
were little, which was more than Clary,
with her accomplishments, could do for herself,
now that she was big.

Eppie did not hesitate to assert that she
would rather learn dressmaking from
mother, and perhaps some day make a gown
which mother herself would be proud to
wear, and to say, ' My daughter Eppie
made it for me,' than jabber all the French
which mademoiselle could stuff into her.
For Eppie had possessed governesses, both
native and foreign, and it was from no want
of such polite literature as the' could impart
that she had developed an out-of-date
rusticity and homeliness.

In the end, Eppie's own strenuous, indignant,

tender will, coinciding with her
parents' secret strong inclinations, carried
the day against the wishes of ' Madam,' as
Eppie and her mother  the latter with
bated breath and sundry twinges of her
tender conscience and pricks of her softheart
 were sometimes driven to call
Clary.

MOKE OF THE DRYSDALES.

So Eppie was at home, to run out, in
sweet rivalry with her mother, to claim her
father's first look and word.

Oh, father, I'm so glad you've come !
I've been wanting you this whole afternoon.
Dr. Peter and Thole have been here, and
they can give me one of their Newfoundland
pups ; and will you walk over with me,
after dinner, and fetch it, for mother cannot
leave the house, in case the Carries should
call, and Tarn will come in over late, and
be cross-tired ? And, oh, father, how
long has " "White Breeks ' taken to do the
road to-day ? Simpson  now, Simpson,
you need not make a face, I'm not going to

say any ill, and you know that you said he
would beat Dr. Peter's " Lady Fair if
you, father, would only let Simpson lick gaff
the bairns, when they hang on behind, at
the Birlie Brae

And how would you like your licks
yourself?' demanded her father, with an
assumption of grave reproach. ' Was that
the way I brocht up my last little girl ?'

Well, but I would not lick them sore,
father explained Eppie, in earnest good
faith ;  only such a skelp [slap] as I would
not have minded taking myself. But you
will walk over to Barley Eiggs with me for
the pup ?'

Bairn, your father will be tired remonstrated
her mother. ' The pup and you
can bide a night apart, sewerly/ with the
little mincing pronunciation which served
as the queerest finish to her broad speech.

Oh ! if father is tired, I can wait ; I'll
not mind the pup,' said Eppie heroically,
without being able to carry out the heroism

effectually, so as to conceal that the twelve
hours' delay in the appropriation of the
puppy would be as twelve years to her.
Tarn could not keep up the joke to the
hurting of his favourite.

Feint a hair am I tired V he exclaimed
triumphantly ; ' I could walk to Glasgy,
let alone to Barley Biggs. But I'm thinking,
my lassie,' he added more seriously,
surveying his daughter, while Simpson
drove away with the dogcart, and the
family group were left on the terrace,
1 you've little need of a topsy tyke [rough
dog] to set you an example in roughness ;
you're more like a Newfoundland dug yourself
than a young teddy, sitting with your
hands in your lap in your mamma's
drawing-room.'

In truth, Eppie's silky black hair, at
which her father glanced with mingled admiration
and disapprobation, was more after
the fashion of a furze-bush than even the
style of the day required. Her thin pink

gown, designed to replace her morning-gown
with something more akin to evening-dress,
was decidedly creased and tumbled,
and two neglected ends of white tape were
straying disconsolately down from her waist
behind.

Eppie looked only a little abashed, however,
as she made two conscious clutches at
the ends of the tape.

It's just my strings that I've forgotten.
Why should a lassie have strings as well as
hooks and eyes to fasten ? I believe dressmakers
send them on purpose to plague
their customers and make life a burden to
them. I was in a hurry in case you should
be back before I was ready. No-mother,
I had not Nicol to look after me. Do you
not mind she was dressing Clary for the
first tennis-party this year ? I do not care
for tennis, with young ladies and gentlemen
running about flourishing bats and keppin'
[catching] balls, but never forgetting their
steps and their carriages ; and I know

young Tarn hates the whole thing as much
as I do. I used to like croquet when I was
little, and you and father came out and
played too, and helped me through the girds
[hoops]. I have been giving wee Willie
Finlay such a grand jow [swing] in the jow
father put up for me lang syne, between the
laughs at the end of the osier-beds

But, my lamb, you're getting over big
for a jow,' her mother remonstrated gently ;
 and Willie Finlay 's an impudent little sorry,
to let you jow him,' with a quick flash of
indignation' the manager's wean, and you
the maister's doctor !' for the worthy
woman was by no means without the sensitive
feelings of the employe who has become
the employer, especially where her children
were concerned.

1 Mother, you've forgotten,' said Eppi<\
with soft reproach, and a shade of gravity
en her round rosy face. * Poor Willie is
as deaf as a horn, and cannot play with the
other bairns.'

No doubt the little chappie's afflicted,'
granted Mrs. Drysdale relentingly, ' and
you may send him in to Wood or me for a
jelly-piece whenever you like ; but it's time
you let j owing alone.'

Why, mother, I'm just sixteen,' protested
Eppie in her turn, with a swift
resumption of her light-hearted gaiety : ' I
have heard you say that you and my aunties
had a jow fixed between two of grandfather's
stacks, and that many a time when
you had gone out to play hide-and-seek in
the gloaming', father here would give you the
best jow you ever had, till grandmother
called you in to your supper.'

Bairn, it's not canny to tell you tales
said Mrs. Drysdale, with one of her old
bright coy blushes. ' Manners have changed
since then,' she said, seeking to dismiss the
subject, with a disturbed sense of how it
would sound to Clary, her own eyes glistening
at the sometime at the remembrance of
the innocent ' chaffing,' which was so much

freer and merrier than anything she saw
now among young people  some of them
douce and more doleful than their elders.

But Tarn Drysdale struck in, inspired by
the recollection :

Weel do I mind it, Eppie, my doo
[dove] ; many a brave jow I gave her, without
her saying so much as " holy ' [stop].
If the coast were clear and the rope stout
enough, I would give you both a fine jow,
though mother there is not so licht as she
was in the auld days.'

Fie for shame, Tarn !' cried Mrs. Drysdale,
as the other Eppie laughed in high glee ;
you maun be daft to speak such nonsense.
What would Clary think, and poor young
Tain, who is so solid, if they heard you ?
What would the maids and the men, and
Sir Jeames and my teddy say, forbye Captain
Mackinnon, who is in the same regiment
as young Semple, and is paying a
visit to Semple Barns  no less ?'

1 I do not care a bawbee what any of

them say, if I am doing no harm,' maintained
Tarn stoutly. ' I may surely give
my ain wife a jow or a kiss  it's a' ane
which  if it pleases me, an' hip over what
the world says about it. But it's true,
mother, we're growing over auld for play ;
we had better leave it to the young ones,
if they were but as spunky [spirited] and
blithe as we were a score of years syne.
Are you two women to keep me waiting
here all night ? Do you know I'm as
hungry as a hawk, and I'm to sort myself
before the gong sounds ?'

Eppie and her mother retreated obediently
to the drawing-room  an apartment
gorgeous in satin damask, ebony, gilding,
mirrors, and china  which Clary had
striven in vain to subdue according to the
Queen Anne standard. The redeeming features
of the room were its good pictures 
several landscapes of the last schools  -
French and Belgian, as well as English and
Scotch  in addition to a presentable family

group, taken by a clever artist when the
children were still young, and an abundance
of flowers, of which both the Eppies were
very fond.

Claribel was absent ; young Tam did not
make his appearance till the last clash of
the gong. He had inherited the good looks
of both father and mother on a larger scale.
He was a big, bearded fellow of three-and-twenty,
with his father's square forehead
and massive face, and his mother's brown
eyes. But there the resemblance ceased.
There was either a load of care or a burden
of discontent, or both, in his low knit brows
and the drooping corners of his mouth. For
whatever reason, he was at war with himself
and with his world. He looked even
as if he had dressed against his will, and
with some scorn for the operation. He ate
sparingly, and as it were with reluctance
and self-disgust, of the plainest food that
was to be had at the sumptuously provided
table. He drank nothing save water. He

hardly joined in the conversation, answering
briefly the observations addressed to him.
He either bestowed no attention on Eppie's
liveliest sallies, or repulsed them with pained
sharpness  a treatment which she requited
by not minding it.

Withal there was a determined gravity
approaching to solemnity, and a certain
self-consciousness about young Tarn, which
did not imply that he was not in earnest ;
it simply hinted that without knowing it he
was playing a part, and however worried
and perplexed, was receiving considerable
high-flown, melancholy satisfaction from
the sense of an heroic performance. His
whole aspect belonged to his age, and could
hardly have existed at any other stage of
existence. It had an aroma of exaltation
and self martyrdom about it, which had its
comical side for those who could see it.
Unfortunately the audience were blinded.
They did not understand the phenomenon
with which they had not before come in

contact, and it affected them too nearly for
them to measure it correctly. The young
man withdrew on the earliest opportunity,
muttering an excuse about a lecture he had
to prepare.

That fellow gets worse and worse every
day said Tarn Drysdale, holding up his
glass of port and staring into it as the door
closed on his son. The elder man spoke
with a mixture of gloom, displeasure, and
wounded feeling, which, unhappily, is a
tone not altogether new or strange to fathers.
What would he have ? What would hebe
at ? One would think he has all that
the heart of a young man could desire, if
he would only see it. A fell difference in
what I had to do and to bear when I was
his age. No choice of dishes for me to
despise. No wine standing untouched at
my elbow. By George ! I was glad of a
whang of bread and cheese, and my pull at
n jug of sma'-beer to wash it down, many a
day ; or I went without, hungry and dry,

till I could pay my way, and lay by a penny
to rise in the world, provide for a family,
buy back the auld place, and make my own
out of it, as I have done. No turning up
my nose at gude victuals, preferring the
worse to the better, and turning upon my
heel like a lord  or an ass ended Tarn, with
a snort of resentment.

His books and his lectures he began
again, with strong disdain. ' Is the lad
never to have done with his education ? I
have not grudged it to him. I could call
the whole town of Glasgy to witness that he
has got the best I could find for him at home
and abroad, and welcome. But what is he
the better for it? In my day a man was
fain to be out of his 'apprenticeship and start
as a journeyman, once and for all. But
Maister Tarn, there, seems willing to bide
in his 'apprenticeship till he's grey-headed, and
what he's to do then I'm not likely to see.
He's such a clever hair-splitter that he can't
make up his mind. Well, he is a bald

vol. 1. 8

beggar ! As fine a business as any of its
kind in Glasgy, ready-made to his hand,
and he stands aside and casts faiths [corn]
at it. Ah ! if I had gotten the tenth part
of his chances V he finished, with angry emphasis.


His wife and daughter were listening in
respectful silence  not awed, but daunted,
as the kindest of men will daunt his womankind,
when the men begin, in contrast to
their usual indulgence, to launch vials of
wrath at domestic grievances.

Maybe, Tarn, you were better without
the chances,' his wife ventured at last to
say mildly. * It's finer to win your success
than to have it gifted to you. The gift
maun have its drawbacks and temptations.
It's just that our Tarn, poor chief, has
over kind a heart and tender a conscience.
He's no easy about the rich and the poor,
though I'm clear the Bible owns them faith.
He cannot bide that the one should be so
well aff and the other perishing for lack of

the necessaries of life, though there does
seem a necessity for the inequality. Yet it
whiles troubles rue myself' that we should
be sitting here, not to say boon the danger
of want, but with our wines and walnuts,
his that were not bred to anything great,
and folk we have kenned not worse than
ourselves, maybe a handle better, and used
to different treatment, are ill aff, and trembling
for what's to come

We're not here to mend the whole
economy of things,' said Tarn gruffly. ' We
can but make the best of what we find, and
well for us if we do as much.'

Folk did not ask so many questions
when we were young,' poor Mrs. Drysdale
went on, with what was in fact a crafty defence
of her son. ' The most feck had not
the time, if they had been gude enough to
have had the will. You need not screw
your face,' a little angrily. ' Our lad is gude 
we may be thankful for that, Tarn Drysdale ;
no just decent outwardly, but gude at the

82

heart, for as little as his father thinks of it.
It is his rudeness partly that torments him.
I could trust him far and near. I mast
think with a sigh, ' that though it would
have been a sore wrench, and it is hard for
you, poor auld lad, that your son you thought
so muckle of should not consort with you
and succeed you in the works and the Hall
here, that you've wrocht so hard to bring
to perfection  it would have been better,
since you twa are not like to agree, to have
let young Tarn go out to Australia as he had
a mind to do.'

And what would he have done there, I
should like to know ?' inquired Tarn contemptuously.
* I have yet to learn that
Australia, though it offers an opening for
shepherds and blacksmiths, has a market
for book-learning

Mrs. Drysdale held up her head. There
was a crimson spot on each cheek, and she
ceased to mince her words. No one  not
even his father  should sneer at her son in

her hearing, and she not speak up for her
bairn.

He could fecit his way as well as
another. He's young and strong, has wit,
and is as steady as a rock, and can thole
[endure] like his neighbours. None could
tant him there with the fine chances and
the dainty faring that he flings wa'  not
because he's saucy, but because he thinks
shame to take what he has ne'er earned,
when he kens there are hard-working men
fain to be content with a soup of thin kail
or a bit of fat pork, a crust of dry bread or a
could potatoes at mony a meal. There may be
mair britherliness  were it but of hardship
out yonder ; and it might help him to beat
peace with God and man  my braw lad !'

1 And what does your son think hinder ?'
retorted Tarn, in the irony of the question
disowning his relationship to the culprit ;
that he is to redress the wrongs of the
world, and flee in the face of his Maker ?
I'll tell you what : he must have consorted

at his colleges  I wish he had never seen
their faces  with a pack of blackguard
demagogues and democrats that never
earned an honest penny, and so cannot bear
to see a decent man enjoy what he has
striven and spared for, but would take it
from him, or by their tales go share and
share alike  a grand piece of generosity
with another man's goods  whenever they
had the luck. I've always had my doubts
of your superfine friends of their kind, that
ken a lot better and are a deal more disinterested
than ordinary mortals. Trust
me, that those extraordinary gentlemen will
come out at the tail of the cart, morals and
all, before they have done.'

Oh, Tarn ! you're ne'er evening young
Tarn, your ain flesh and blue, to such
gentry V cried Mrs Drysdale, ready to breakdown
in her distress.

Then young Eppie, having finished her
grapes, put her oar into the entanglement.
She had been a spoilt child, accustomed

to give her opinion, and it was
seldom that she remained so long silent in
any discussion between her father and
mother when she was present.

1 If I were you, father, I would let young
Tarn alone, and take no notice of his strum.
He always comes round sooner to what I
want, if I just let him alone

Hold your tongue this moment, Eppie !'
exclaimed her father with unwonted asperity,
for he could not bear even his favourite
daughter to interfere between him and his
son. ' "What does a bairn like you ken 0'
such matters ? It is true what Clary says,
that you're over forward in some things and
over backward in others

Oh ! if it's Clary I'm to please, and if it
is her word that is to be taken for what I

ought to say or do ' protested Eppie,

with a lump in her throat that prevented
her from speaking further.

Tarn, you've hurt the bairn. I do not
know what has come over you,' said Mrs.

Drysdale reproachfully, turning again upon
her husband. i What harm has she done ?
Is it so great an offence that she should
speak up for her brother ? You let her have
her head out the one moment, and you curb
her the next. What justice is there in that ?
Yet you men pretend to be sae just !' with
a fine scorn that sat as strangely on her as
wrath on a mother-hen.

Thus sat upon on all sides, Tain
Drysdale began to find himself in the wrong,
and to give way.

I did not mean ' he said, growing

abashed before his wife and daughter ; but
before he could get any further, Eppie
sprang from her seat and flung her arms
round his neck.

She could no more bear to hear her
father reflected upon  and it was all the
worse that it should be on her account 
than her mother could stand an attack upon
young Tarn.

Say what you like, father; scold me if

you please ; who has so good a right ? You
have been over kind to your youngest
lassie, and to us all. Tain will not be the
last to see that, some day. But I did not
mean to be forward ; only I thought I would
like to tell you how I managed Tarn.'

Managed him, you gipsy ! you'll be
managing me next,' protested the head of
the house ; but it was said fondly, harmony
was restored, and the bone of contention
dropped.

In the course of the evening, when after
all Eppie and her father did not go to
Barley Biggs  for the engagement slipped
out of his mind, and, at a hint from her
mother, Eppie docilely let it go  Claribel
came in from her tennis-party, which had
merged into a dinner. A dinner dress had
been sent to her, the carriage had followed
the dress, and she returned in it in full
array, and joined the others for half an -
hour. She was a decidedly handsome
young woman to those who put full weight

on a tall, broad-shouldered figure, regular
if somewhat strongly-marked features, and
a neck and arms like alabaster. There
was also something in the girl's expression
that recommended itself to many people 
not without reason  something resolute
and fearless. There was nothing weak,
nothing in keeping with her sentimental
Christian name, which, to tell the truth,
Mrs. Drysdale, in the dawn of the family
prosperity, had borrowed from the title-page
of a sheet of music. Claribel knew
her own mind, and obeyed its dictates
without hesitation. There was an absence
of anything either faltering or paltering, unstable
or underhand, about her. She was a
person to be comfortably relied upon, so far
as she went.

Claribel Drysdale was a year younger
than her brother, and six years older than
her sister. She had prized the worldly
advantages which were hers as highly asher
father or mother could prize them, and

a

she had never had any warring inclinations
or lingering first loves to dispute the sway.
She had made the best of being a handsome
girl, and a rich and popular man's daughter,
in a society of wealthy and pleasure-loving
people. She had young-ladies it as a man
might lord it, with all her heart and soul,
not so much arrogantly as with an agreeable
forgetfulness of any other state of being.
She had been incapable of being deliberately
unkind or unfeeling, but she had been
full of herself and the good time she had of
it, her dress, her jewels  many and costly
to belong to a young girl  her horses ; the
dances, dinners, and picnics in which she
joined ; the plays, operas, charity bazaars
and sermons at which she figured, to the
exclusion of all besides.

But this was only a stage in Charters
existence ; as she had soon grown up, so she
had soon passed beyond her earliest development.
She had quickly grown dissatisfied
with the fruits of mere wealth, and

taken to the products of rank and generations
of culture instead. She had inherited
her father's respect for real ladies and
gentlemen, without his contented hopelessness
of ever attaining to their merits.
Nothing was beyond Claribel Drysdale's
ambition, and the neighbourhood and friendship
of Lady Semple afforded her an opening
for gratifying her tastes.

Beyond this she was, as her father
said, ' not minding.' She had the grace
not to interfere much with the others,
unless on Eppie's behalf. She left young
Tarn to his ' Radical fads,' contented that
time would cure him of them. She
swallowed down lightly, with no more thana
slight grimace at times, the discrepancies,
which no one saw more keenly than she
did, between her father and mother and the
style in which they lived. If she did not
show great filial respect and regard, and
never dreamt of rushing out to meet her
father, or being never so happy as when she

was with her mother, like Eppie, Claribel
did not fail signally in her duty and affection
to her elders. She behaved with
proper deference, and acted with far more
philosophy and apparent good-humour than
her brother, young Tarn, displayed.

Fine feathers were not wanting to set offa
fine bird. Miss Drysdale, of Drysdale
Hall, was too well instructed and paid too
much heed to details  for she was one of
those strong women, wise in their generation,
who never neglect a detail  to dress
for dinner as she would have dressed for a
ball. But while she complied with established
rules and stopped short at the
appointed limits, she gratified her natural
liking for what was not so much soft or
bright, elegant or exquisite, as for what w T as
rich and magnificent. Claribel wore a pale
moire, with lace trimmings and such a set
of coral as a countess might have envied.
She was quite a splendid figure in her
shimmering silk and red and gold necklace,

as she presented herself without her opera-cloak
in the drawing-room, where Eppie
was initiating her mother into the mysteries
of ' bezique ' to replace ' birkie ' and
catch-the-ten/ coming in natural succession,
which the two had played together, of
an evening, ever since the younger Eppie
w T as old enough to hold a card, while Tarn
Drysdale read his newspaper.

It was comprehensible that the father and
mother should look with pride on such a
daughter, that even Eppie, whose bright
eyes were more critical, should bestow her
meed of approval on her sister. Here was
something to show for the parents' pains
that was not to be found in young Tarn,
though the lad was a scholar, and out of
the ruck of ordinary young men. Here
was a more satisfactory conclusion, if it
were a conclusion ; neither was the satisfaction
fatally qualified.

True, as a rule, Mrs. Drysdale was not
quite at ease before her elder daughter ; less

so than before her son, who seemed to he
above noticing trifles. Even Tarn senior,
though too manly and too much of a philosopher
in his way to have any serious
apprehensions of what Clary might think of
his sayings and doings, was troubled with
an amount of respectful consideration for
her which on special occasions was apt to
hamper him in her company.

But the effect she produced on her father
and mother was rather the result of the
working of their minds than of hers.
Claribel was reasonably good-natured. She
had a general friendly, if somewhat condescending,
wish to have her family share in
her pleasures, though they could not always
comprehend them. She was a fair talker,
when she was disposed to talk, and as she
sat discoursing lightly on the company she
had just quitted, indicating the individuality
of its different members, touching upon
their eccentricities, here and there mimicking,
not very maliciously, their defects 

how Mr. Muir stumped about as he walked ;
the constant use Sir James made of the
epithet * ridiculous ;' the manner in which
Colin Hunter contrived to look past the
cpergne at Mary Campbell  though the
gossip was superficial, sometimes a little
hard and caustic, never indicative of height
or depth or fine sensitiveness, beyond dispute
it was entertaining.

And what did you think of Captain
Mackinnon, Clary ? "What was he like ?
I mind well his father was master of the
Haugh when your father came back here
and brought me with him. I mind his
mither too. She died when he was born,
poor woman ! They said she had turned
for want of a bairn, and she laid down her
life for this one said Mrs. Drysdale compassionately.


If you mind Gavin Mackinnon,' said
Tam, ' you mind a feckless, incapable man ;
a sort of fellow with a grand manner and
big words, if that were enough.'

Well, his son is not like him,' said
Claribel, with a laugh. ' He is too lazy,
and has too much "pride that apes humility."
I dare say he's not a bad sort of young
man. Dick Semple seems to have a regard
for him, and Lady Semple says he is the
tamest cat she ever had about the house.
The last curate did not efface himself half
so effectually. Only it is not modesty in
this case ; it is pride and poverty. He has
not a captain's commission, mother ; he is
only a lieutenant yet, like Dick Semple  a
rank which does not count.'

What do they call him, then ?' inquired
Mrs. Drysdale ; ' an officier used to be
muckle thought of in Glasgy, and the power
to put Captain or Major or even Lieutenant
before the name was prized next to the
uniform.'

1 Uniform has become mufti said Clary,
and is only worn on parade ; and lieutenants
have disappeared, unless in the
Gazette. They have fallen back among the

vol. 1. 9

civilians, and are heard of only as plain
Mr. Semple, or Mr. Mackinnon.'

Keep me ! I would have thought I had
been insulting the lads if I had not given
them all their honours,' said Mrs. Drysdale,
musing upon what would have been the
consequence of the two young gentlemen's
calling at Drysdale Hall, while she had
laboured under such a mistaken impression.

They get honour enough,' said Tarn,
even without their uniform and the
handles to-their names. All the silly lads
and lasses  and alder folks that should
know better  are fain to run after them,
because the trade of war is genteel, and a
prince may be a cornet, or whatever you
like to call him.'

But you like to read about battles,
father,' interposed Eppie, ' and you've
helped at the presentations of swords to
officers.'

Of course, my lass, of course. The
webster [weaver] and the dyer in the

webster's train, could not weel do without
the warrior, and there's many a good lodger
come from Glasgy, forbye Lord Clyde and
Sir John Moore. But the warrior must bethe
genuine article, and not a carpet knight,
like a good wheen of the soldiers we see in
the piping times of peace  the heroes of
Glasgy drawing-rooms. The worst of it is
that some of the puppies look down on their
entertainers, laugh at them to their faces,
and would give them the could shoulder
any day if they met them at Semple Barns,
or Pollock, or Blantyre/

Mr. Mackinnon could not very well do
that, father, with his father before you in
the works here,' remarked Clary carelessly ;
neither would he if he could  he is too
much of a gentleman. All the same, I
think his mother will be the only woman to
die for Mr. Eneas Mackinnon, which is
but fair, since if the role were reversed I do
not believe he would take the trouble of
dying for any woman under the sun.'

92

Clary had not heard of the old aunts in
St. Mungo's Square, and she was an entertaining
young woman when she was in glib
speech. She promised to be as great a
social success as any woman could aspire
to be ; while her brother Tarn, in his own
room, engaged in reading up for one of the
lectures which would come to nothing,
threatened to be as great a social failure.

Tory OF THE SHELTIES.

The Broomielaw has not borne a broom
cow' for many a year. ' Ane little quay'
has gradually extended to a long line of
wharves, where traffic reigns. Warehouses
abound with goods from the four quarters
of the globe, shops with a seafaring flavour,
though the sea is not at hand, and they deal
in the common necessaries of shore life ; the
homely dwellings of these humbler shopkeepers,
sailors' lodging-houses, commercial
hotels, look down upon the busy thoroughfare
and the river highway.

Among the crowd of shipping, steamboats,
multiplied mightily since Henry Bell's
little Comet plied between Glasgow and

Greenock, and was the wonder of the day
arrive at all hours at the Broomielaw.
Many of them are Highland boats from
1 Glasgow down the water the villa settlements
that fringe the Clyde and the lochs.
And far beyond the islands that begin with
Bute and Arran is a Scotch archipelago 
shaggy, heathery, rocky, castle-crowned
here and there, guarded by savage mountains
and wild sounds. That is the region
of green Morven near thunder-haunted
Knapdale, pillared Staffa, sacred Iona, lonely
Barra and Canna, and the primitive, desolate
Western Hebrides, in which Stornoway
ranks as a big town.

The communication between all these
places and the more civilized south is by
water, and mainly by steamboat. The passengers
and the cargo in these Highland
boats, when the first do not consist of enterprising
English and American tourists, and
the second of their baggage, are sometimes
strange enough, but they are sufficiently

common in that quarter of the world to
attract little attention. Besides, people are
too much engrossed with their own affairs
to have notice to spare for those of their
neighbours. Thus nobody looked and
nobody cared, when, on a rainy April afternoon,
an odd figure stepped out of one of the
boats that touched at some of the farthest-off
islands, shook himself, clutched an
ancient knapsack that might have seen
service in the Peninsular War, and stumbled
along, casting wary glances out of the red-lashed
eyes, right and left, like a spy reconnoitring
a new country.

The stranger was a man a little over
thirty, weather-beaten, and with the shambling
gait that often accompanies a defective
intellect, which makes up in cunning what
it lacks in strength. The Highlander did
not wear the kilt, which he perhaps regarded
as inappropriate in the low country. He
had compounded with the claims of the
Sassenach in his own territory, by assuming

one of his few remaining articles of dress  a
pair of tartan trews, in which the greensand
reds were faded into sickly olives and
dingy browns. With these he had on a little
tartan coat originally made for a much
smaller man, so that the waist was between
his shoulders, and the sleeves ended not far
below his elbows. The dress was completed
by a Glengarry of the same set, perched on
the wearer's shock head of red hair. His
face was as ugly as a ferret complexion, high
cheek bones, a wide mouth twisted slightly
to one side, and the longest chin on record,
could make it.

But in the middle of this man's ugliness
and the guile which blinked out of his eyes,
there was a strain of simplicity and patience
in the whole aspect of the creature. There
was also a manifest determination not to
betray any surprise at whatever he might
see, but to affect that his native clachan was
as fine a place as Glasgow any day. He
glanced at the long lines of houses that

opened from the quay, and betrayed, by the
blankness of his gaze, that he did not expect
to see a living soul he knew, amongst
the thousands in the great city. He instinctively
turned his eyes from the eating-houses
and provision-shops, conveying a
suspicion that he was both hungry and
thirsty, but dare not indulge in a supererogatory
meal, till he had ascertained where
he should find and what he should pay
for the cheapest and humblest of suppers
and beds.

He wandered along Clyde Street, not
caring to ask his way, past the old Gaol,
giving a doubtful, almost timorous look at
its sombre exterior, and came out upon the
Green  the glory of East-end Glasgow. If
the Earl of Moray were to see it now, would
he know it to be the same Green on which
he encamped his army before he crossed the
river to win, under Mary's despairing eyes,
the battle of Langside ? Would Prince
Charlie recognise the spot where he reviewed

his Highlanders on their return from Derby,
after their rags had been exchanged for the
twelve thousand linen shirts, the six thousand
cloth coats, and the thousand blue
bonnets required by the rebels from the Whig
town which flourished by the preaching of the
Word ? Even the Chartists, who not more
than thirty years ago gathered there, ten
thousand strong, with wolfish famine-pinched
faces and bony hands, brandishing the iron
bars torn from the railing, or the guns
snatched from the locksmiths, would not
have felt themselves at home on the smooth
turf, amidst the flower-beds, resting on the
seats provided for w r wayfarers, gazing their
fill at the water which, though it is less
clear than when Moray and Prince Charlie
crossed it, is still dear to the born and bred
Glaswegian.

Tory of the Shelties, who had travelled
all the way from the farther Uist, where
he had left his charge of rough ponies
behind him, was much puzzled by the

Green. He thought he had strayed into
some gentleman's grounds, and with due
consideration for the gloomy building he
had passed near the entrance, he behaved
himself most gingerly, and sought anxiously
for the nearest mode of exit. Then he
remarked the style of the occupants of some
of the benches, and proceeded far enough
to come on the spot set aside for the
operation of carpet-beating, which was
going on briskly ; and even his dull brain
took in the conception that those fine walks
were somehow free after the fashion of his
own bare hills, and that he might, without
fear of being called to order, sit down, ashe
could not do in the street, and consider
what should be his next movement.

Tory dropped promiscuously on a seat,
and stared rather vacantly at an empty and
stationary merry-ground, which waited
for the Fair, to revolve with a noisy load.
Tory had never seen anything like it
before, and was inclined to think it was

some new-fangled threshing mill, though
why put down so far from any trace of a
farm, he could not pretend to say. The
only sign he had given that he observed
a fellow-sitter near him, was his clutching
more tightly his old knapsack.

Tory's neighbour was an aged man with
a nut-cracker face, and his fustians so clean
as to suggest an infirmary or a poorhouse,
or at least that their wearer was beyond
work, with possibly a notable wife or
daughter who took pride in the respectability
of a well washed and whole, though
patched, suit for the ' man body ' of the
house. But if the bent body and feeble,
wrinkled hands, grasping and sustaining
themselves on a blackthorn stick, were
beyond labour, the bleared eyes were not beyond
observation or the tongue seen between
the shrivelled lips and nearly toothless jaws
destitute of the power of wagging whenever
the opportunity of ' a crack ' presented
itself. With a little cough by way of introduction,

the patriarch began the conversation
most affably :

'Friend', I'm no a Parishioner myself; but
my father's auntie married a Dumbarton
chap, so that I've cousins on the edge of
the Hielants. But you maybe canna speak
the English ?' he interrupted himself to
ask, led to do it by the stony suspicious
look of the new-comer in return for his
politeness.

'Ye're wrong there,' said Tory half-haughtily,
half with a childish satisfaction ;
I have the English.'

That's lucky, for the Gaelic is dein'
foot, though there's mony a Hieland man an'
woman that could understand you in your
ain tongue in the Sautmarket or the Gallowgate
; still, ye ken, ye michtna licht on
them without a difficulty.'

I felled ye I had the English,' said the
stranger, with dry offence in his tones.

Weel, I said the better aff ye were the
day,' returned the other, declining to be

offended in turn, or held at arm's length.
1 Ye'll hae come for the hairs ? but ye 're fu'
soon, Tonalt.'

My name's not Tonalt,' snarled the
Highlander ; ' and I'm not for the hairs.'

1 Ye'll be seeking a porter's job ? that's
aye in season,' persisted the untroubled
questioner. ' There was a growth [plenty]
o' Hieland porters when I was a young
lad ; but we hanna so mony now. We
rear a breed o' or ain, I'm thinking;' and
he finished by a cackling laugh.

Tory glared at his tormentor.

I'm no a porter any more than a
shearer,' he spluttered indignantly. 'You'll
ask, perhaps, if I'm a beggar-man next.
"When I'm at home I'm Tory o' the Shelties,
no less, to Maclean of Cairnbreck; and
I'm come to Glasgy on my ain private
business.'

1 I wish it may thrive,' said the old man,
still with a suspicion of mischief and
mockery in his words. ' Is it with the

Lord Provost, or ony of the great shipbuilders
or boiler makers ? I was an
engineer since on a time myself', my lad ;
and I could work long hours at a stretch
when orders were throng and men scarce.
Whiles, as I sit here doing nothing, a
dream comes over me, and I hear the
rattle of the locomotives, and the whiz of
the steam-valves, and the swing and ring
of the hammers, and it's like the sweetest
music I ever heard. But it never comes
to you, man, I see by your face.' His
own old face, which had lighted up, lost
its faint glow, and the former monkey-like
mischief hovered again about its lines and
furrows. ' Your errand' maun be to the
sugar-trade or the cotton-mills, or violins to
the whisky-shops to spier whether campbell
or Glenlivat's mast in favour.'

Tory hunched rather than shrugged his
shoulders, then suddenly rose up and
walked away, lugging his knapsack.

I think he has his fortune in that bit

bowie,' reflected the humble student of mankind
sardonically, * but I jalouse he's no
better than a born natural. However, I
maun hame to Jenny for my sower-hours,
and syne it will be time for my bed

Tory quitted the Green, where, in place
of an inspiration coming to him, he had
been badgered by an impertinent fool, old
enough to be his grandfather  as old as his
grandmother Morag when she left him the
kit and the treasure which was to make his
fortune. It was not his fortune yet which
he carried in the soldier's kit that might
have been at the wars with some old Maclean,
it was only the materials of which
that fortune was to be made.

He strayed up the Saltmarket and got
into the Gallowgate. There, in the dirt
and din and crush, he saw an occasional
man with a Glengarry, or a bareheaded
woman with a tartan plaid over her head,
or round her shoulders, frequently binding
a child to her  Highland fashion. The

sight bore out the statement of Body's
single acquaintance in Glasgow, that here
were countrymen and women who might
listen to his story and take an interest in
his fortunes. But the stranger was benton
keeping his secret as far as he could,
lest the sharers in it should steal a march
on him and rob him of its price.

As he wandered on, he noticed, side by
side with the whisky-shops of which he
had been told, so many milk-shops and
dairies, that the days when the Cowcaddens
received its name might have returned, and
Glasgow again have had its staple article
of produce in the milk which the students
at the college and the brethren in the
religious houses consumed. It might bethe
most baseless scandal that mountain-dew
flowed freely there, and as many
crowns were cracked on Saturday night as
in any city in the kingdom ; while luckless
wights, boasting that the moon would ' bide
a wee,' before she served as their lantern

vol. 1. 10

to guide them home, staggered blindly into
the brimming Clyde, and the waters closed
sullenly over human loves and hates, hop
and fears.

At the most crowded and noisy crossing,
where waggons, carts and barrows, and a
stray cab or two were in lively contest with
the pedestrians, Tory was unexpectedly
brought up by one of the women who still
retained the tartan screen  though no
longer the honourable curch of old custom :

"What part of the country are ye frae ?
It'll no be Ballachulish ? Ye'll no ken
M'Leish  the auld lodger wi' the sudden
leg up at the big loose, ye ken ?' She
put her questions in rapid succession, without
waiting for a separate answer, till she
had opened out the whole budget.

Tory, who was taken aback, while he
was now both tired and faint in the unaccustomed
scene, stared at her in silence
with a dazed look. She was untidy, but
not sordid or wretched in her dross. There

was a certain lingering comeliness and
kindly impulsiveness in her middle-aged
face, though the lines had worn stronger,
and the fresh colour grown mottled and
hard. She broke the silence by a laugh at
herself, in which there was no bitterness.

I'm an auld full,' she said. ' I dour
say ye never heard of Ballachulish or Col
M'Leish  that's the uncle who was gude tome
when I was a motherless bairn with a
randy of a stepmother. I'll no say she
had nocht to complain 0' though, for I've
grown a handle wiser since I had a man and
bairns of my ain. But, eh, I fuss I could
hear tell 0' the auld man, gin he be in the
land of the living yet, and how he's farina
They would mind his comforts up at the
big loose ; but maybe, ye see, they're a'
gave too. My man minna let me write 
no that I'm a scholar, but I might manage
a scrape 0' the pen  only he threes
insists] I might bring a burden upon
myself and him, and there's seven months

102

0' bairns to fill, and the farther he wull
gang on the strike, though I were to lay
the hairs o' my head neath his feet to
prevent it. I'm aye speer' and speer'
whenever I can get the chance, but I never
hear a word

The speaker bestowed her confidence
with the utmost candour on the bewildered
listener, who had enough to do to protect
himself and his knapsack from the jostling
occasioned by the two stopping the way.

Losh ! man, can ye no speak ?' she
asked in sudden surprise, not unmingled
with consternation. ' You're a Hielanter,
by the cut 0' ye. It is mony a day since
I ran wa' from Ballachulish, and my
tongue has lost the Gaelic ; but my ears
can tak' it in yet, gin it's year only speech.'

No,' said Tory, piqued once more by
not getting credit for the education he had
acquired ; ' I have the English as well as
any man in North Uist. But I div not
know Ballachulish or any M'Leish, and

ray head is bizzin' a bit, what with coming'
aff the water and this confounded whirl.'

1 Pair chief !' said the good-natured
woman, with a quick change to patronizing
pity in her accent, ' yell be strange to a
muckle toon. I mind the feeling myself'.
Hae ye ony acquaintance here, or ony hole
to gang to ? If ye like, ye can come
my gate  I live in the next street  and
have a bite, till ye see what ye're to do.
Anclry Sed  that's my man  canna find
fautwi' a ca', forbye he's no thane at this
hour. Noo when I think o't, ye'll meet
another lad frae the hills, a ledger we've
had for as gude as a week ; but he's bund
for his maister's place the morn. He's
weel-to-do, a credit to the North ; he's at
the head of the kennels at Semple Barns 
no less !'

Roaming at random as he was in the
deafening smothering city, without a clue
to his object, Tory could not resist the
frank invitation, though he was not guiltless

of a suspicion that his countrywoman
had penetrated somehow into the bowels of
his knapsack, and was cherishing insidious
designs upon its contents.

Mrs. Seel or Seth's house made up in
heartiness and ease for what it lacked indignity
and refinement. That wet blanket,
her Lowland husband, did not turn up to
extinguish her Celtic hospitality. The
bairns were at school or at their various
trades, and so were not in the way to engross
their mother's energies. The * ledger,'
a profitable guest, crammed into a space
cleared out for him, gave himself no airs,
though he had attained the high degree of
being the supreme authority over the dogs
at Semple Barns. He was pleased with
himself and with the world  this strapping,
black (instead of red) headed, kilted man,
an effusive, gossiping Highlander, a male
example of the type to which Mrs. Seth
belonged, with the same inclination to find
his heart warm to any ' John Hielantman,'

the drawer the better, whom he met among
the crowds in the Low country.

Under these benign influences, including
whangs of a goat-milk lubbock, a ' stack' of
oat-cakes, a newly-baked loaf, a couple of
bottles of ale, and sundry hastings of the
peat-readiest whisky, Tory thawed perceptibly.
He did not yet tell his errand,
but he began to throw out dark hints of its
importance, and to fish for such straws of
information as he could gather from the talk
of his companions, better versed than he
was in the intricacies of Lowland and city
life.

You'll be knowing most 0' the fine folk
in Glasgow ?' he addressed Mrs. Seth insinuatingly.


The deil's in the man ! is he making'
fun of me ?' exclaimed his hostess, with a
dash of anger in her tones ; ' or is his ignorance
just past believing ? What trade have
I wi' eddies in their carriages, or wi' gentlemen
that dine aff cheery and silver ?'

By name, mistress ; I was only meaning
by name !' exclaimed the inquirer, in
some alarm.

Oo, I ken a feck [number] o' them byname,
whatever,' she granted placably, the
moment she was relieved from the disgrace
of being laughed at by a ' bogle ' like her
new acquaintance. ' I was in gude enough
places when I was at service afore I took a
man, and sir fashed I was with times [finical
ways] about keeping myself' clean and tidy. '

As if dirt diana bode [promise] luck, and
there was no sic saw [saying] in braid Scots
not in Gaelic  as "the cartier the cosier."
[the more sluttish the warmer] ,' interposed
the keeper of the kennels, glancing down at
the kilt he wore, which was by no means
spotless, and having a fellow-feeling derived
from similar trials.

Deed, ay, Sandy Macnab, if ye're no
over muckle up in the buckle [too proud]
to be card Sandy by a woman that kenned
your mither  moreover, she was living in a

land [a pile of building] in this very street,
and you were a loon no bigger than wee
Andry, who's that dour he'll reive his
father's bennet some day. But what
need they have made sic a stour about
lappet tails [muddy skirts] or a wheen
blades on a brat [spots on an apron] or
buckled shoon [shoes down at heel] !' exclaimed
Mrs. Seth, with a broad smile of
superior wisdom.

Then she began to tell of her great employers.
' There were the Milroy, where
I was bairns-maid. He was in the looses
business, and he made a heap o'
money, and left her a rich giddy, to fling
herself' wa' on a full of a lad from Ayr.
There were the Leishmans, where I was
under-kitchen maid. He was a grosser with
a grand connection, and his sons at college,
and his doctors in furrin parts for an education
they would have been better without.
And there were the Ores in the ship-chandler
line, with a braw loose at the West-end

and a willy on the Clyde, where I gazed fora
day at a time after I was married, when
there was nae bairn in my arms, and they
were foot o' servants or changing them at
term-time. But eh ! man, it would take a
year to gang owe the bare names o' the big
Glasgy folk

Tory's face fell a little, as if he were overpowered
with the number of the great of the
earth.

But even among so mony,' he said again,
after a pause,, ' you might come across certain
titles.'

Speak foot, man, among your country-folk
and Men's, and cinna gang for ever
about the buss !' the man of dogs adjured
him . ' Wha are you seeking' ?  name him.'

1 1 div not want ony man,' insisted Rosy ;
only I might like to hear a name.'

Weel, whatna name, and be hanged to
ye for a sly, half-daft devil !' Sandy
Macnab muttered the last half of his sentence
in his beard.

Thus pressed, Tory took heart, stroked his
long chin, and suggested, ' You'll have heard
of Mackinnon ?'

There's a wale [choice] 0' Mackinnons,'
announced Mrs. Seth ; ' not that I pretend
to be thick wi' ony of them. But while
Mackinnon are you after ?'

6 It might be Mackinnon of Drysdale
Haugh,' admitted Tory, but, if possible,
more reluctantly and dubiously than ever.

You're wrong there,' Sandy Macnab
contradicted him flatly. ' I ken about
Drysdale Haugh. It is the bleaching and
dye-works that belong to the maister of
Drysdale Ha'. He's a friend of my maister's.
His young teddy doctor was biding
with us at Semple Barns last week. She's
throng [intimate] with my teddy. There's
no Mackinnon of Drysdale Haugh, but
Drysdale of Drysdale Ha' and Haugh
an a .

Mrs. Seth confirmed the tale.

They are braw works. I kenned a lass

that married a bleacher ; and I took my fit in
my hand and gazed out and see'd her since.'

There might have been mention of a
Drysdale,' said Tory cautiously, ' but it
was ane Mackinnon of Drysdale Haugh
that the concern was wit's

Drysdale the noo, anyway,' maintained
Sandy, unshaken in his testimony.
4 I'm as sure of that as that my head's on
my shoulders. But there's Captain ,
a lodger lad, a friend' of the young
maister's, if that will serve you.'

Tory shook his head, but did not absolutely
reject the suggestion.

What will be his whole name ?'

How should I ken ? Stop, it was half
furrin, but I've heard it in the North ;
Eneas," " captain," or " major," I'm not
pertikler about the military handle to the
name. " Eneas Mackinnon "  I've read
it on his valise. He kens a dug when he
sees him, and he's often down at the kennels
when he's at Semple Barns.'

1 No, it will not be Eneas,' said Body,
letting his head fall disconsolately on his
breast.

Cheer up, auld shaver V cried the brotherly
Sandy, using a term which was not
strictly of Gaelic origin, but, to tell the
truth, borrowed from the slang vocabulary
of the young master of Semple Barns. Sandy
punched Tory in the chest with a vigorous
arm as he spoke. ' You've hit on Drysdale
Haugh, and that's the main thing, I'm
thinking, and Drysdale Ha' is end onto
Semple Barns. I'll gie you a leg up for
the sake of the North and auld lang syne.
But you maun mind what ye 're after, and
behave yourself', or I swear 111 have nae-thing
to do with you. I'm an honest,
'possible man, and I'll no fling about my
maister's money like chuckie-stanes [pebbles]
without work in return. We're
wanting' a dug-laddie, and you may do as
weel as another gin you'll obey orders.
You're an able-bodied chief enough, and

you've as muckle wut as a baffling callant
[half-grown lad] , I dour say. Whatever
berth you've had in the Uist, ye're no like
to get a better offer here. You'll be cheek
for jowl with Drysdale Ha', and can mak'
up your mind wha and w T hat you want
without starving in the street, or being
coupe [overturned] back the road you
came to your milan' paris  just when
the minister, and the dominie [schoolmaster]
, and the bethel [church officer]
think they're weel quit of you. Is't a
bargain ?'

'Eh! you'll be a full gin you refuse,'
chimed in Mrs. Seth, with benevolent
urgency. ' Sandy Macnab's a glide sort,
and Semple Barns is a canny toon-sitting
even among the dugs. My laddies are
wild to get a day there when the haws and
the hips are ripe, and the gentlemen are
foot with their guns, and there's pippin' o'
shot and trapping' 0' birds on a' hands.
That's a' very weel at a time, but the

father says the big toon's the place to
lippen [trust] to for laddies that want to
mak' their way in the world, unless maybe
they come from the hill country and lore
their freedom in the open air better than
ony wage, and are as keen as the gentles
on the sport, like Sandy there.'

Tory of the Shelties accepted the good
advice, not seeing how he could make any
better of his quest, till he had tracked his
game. He was promised one thing, he
would be set down ' end on ' to Drysdale
Haugh.

FRIENDS MEET AT BARLEY RIGGS.

Barley Riggs was an old-fashioned country-house,
left stranded among the bleachfields
of Drysdale Haugh. Instead of surroundings
of woodland pasture or corn-land, it
was encircled by acres of white webs,
Turkey-red webs, or webs of divers colours,
the aspect being something like that of a
rainbow brought down from the skies and
spread out on the dull earth.

For convenience the house had been appropriated,
at different times, by the different
partners in the works. The original Drysdale
had never dwelt in it; but the Mac-cannons
on their marriage had preferred it to
the old farmhouse. Soon Gavin Mackinnon

had ceased to take any active interest, or
rather to do any active mischief, in the
business ; then Barley Eiggs had been made
over to his partner, Mr. Murray, a fussy,
fault-finding man, whose continual meddling
and rating had been little more to
the purpose than Mackmnon's helplessness.
After Tarn Drysdale's purchase of
the place, he had come there while Drysdale
Hall was building round the nucleus of
the farmhouse. Finally, Barley Eiggs was
again occupied by a Murray, though no
longer as proprietor or tenant of the works,
which had grown and spread till the buildings,
vats, cylinders, and blocks were nearly
doubled, like the men, women, and children
who earned their bread by them, compared
to what they had been five-ands twenty years
before.

Dr. Peter Murray had been born at Barley
Eiggs when it overlooked a far smaller
colony of working-rooms, machinery, and
working people's cottages, when the ground-vol.

i. 11

rainbow was but a handbreadth to the size
it had reached now. He had come back to
his first nest, as some men will, while othe
avoid their early homes with dogged dislike
or nervous repugnance. He bore no grudge
against the prosperity in which he had no
share. He maintained that he had been so
soon inured to the smell of chemicals that
he rather liked it, though it was stronger
now than in his young days.

Dr. Peter had been bred a doctor, and
had earned his little independence as a
medical man at a foreign station. But he
said that he could practise nowhere so well
nor feel so much at ease with his patients
as among the hands at the old works, of
which he was now the doctor by the appointment
of Tarn Drysdale. Many of the people
had stayed long enough for them to have
been known to Dr. Peter in his and their
calf-days. He could tell yet whom he had
first bled, whose tooth he had tried his
'prentice hand at pulling, what baby had

led the troop of his babies, so that it had
been christened ' Peter' in compliment to
him ; and he had still the pleasure of bailing
Peter Murphy' out of a Glasgow or local
police court at least three times a year.

Dr. Peter Murray was a philosopher whose
character was a puzzle to Tarn Drysdale,
just as some of Tarn's idiosyncrasies bewildered
Dr. Peter, though he understood
his man much the better of the two. Yet
the two men had not only a high esteem for
each other  they had many points in
common, such as their scientific bent, particularly
with regard to chemicals, in which
they had both dabbled more or less since
their boyhood, and their humane feeling for
their fellow-creatures, represented by the
work people at Drysdale Haugh. But how
Tarn Drysdale could build a great show-place
and pretend to be comfortable in it,
and how Dr. Peter could be satisfied to dose
away the end of his days in a shabby house
without a single modern improvement, were

112

samples of riddles which neither man could
read to his satisfaction.

Dr. Peter was not alone at Barley Riggs,
though his wife was long dead and his family
out in the world, married, and scattered far
and wide, with one exception. This was
his youngest child  the daughter Thole
who kept her father company, took care
of his house, and was as pleased with her
position as he could he with his.

At Barley Riggs, Dr. Peter and his
daughter practised what people are told in
these days has all but gone out of the world
' plain living and high thinking.' They
had to be frugal, for the income of the head
of the house was not large, and he had determined
to leave a sufficient provision for
his unmarried daughter, though she had
besought him with tears in her merry eyes
not to stint himself on her account, in the
modest indulgences he craved. She could
work for herself at any time. He had
taught her both how to be independent and
how to be easily satisfied.

But even if necessity had not been laid
upon the Murrayss to be frugal, their inclination
pointed that way. They were disposed
to be simple, not luxurious in their habits.
They had so many higher enjoyments that
the couple could hardly wait or stoop to
occupy themselves much with the gratification
of the senses. So long as books were
left  they allowed themselves great scope in
books, which are the finest and cheapest
luxury  they did not object to faring simply.
It did not trouble them that the furniture
at Barley Riggs, which Dr. Peter had carried
across the globe and back again, was almost
as out of date and lawfully worn as that of
the Miss Mackinnons in St. Mungo's Square.
Rivalling books, in the estimation of father
and daughter, was life in every aspect 
human life, animal life, plant life. It afforded
them treasures beyond price. It was a
divine problem they were never weary of
seeking reverently to work out for themselves.


The old-fashioned parlour at Barley
Eiggs was somewhat hard in angular forms
and cold in neutral tints, such as were in
fashion a good many years ago. The
chairs and tables were of mahogany, black
with age ; the carpets and hangings, in
colour, held chiefly by drabs and browns.
There were here and there foreign touches
which told of Dr. Peter's long residence
abroad  a cabinet of strange shells which
he had gathered on a distant seashore ;
specimens of primitive pottery in dull red
and thick yellow ; a curious weapon or two
hanging on the walls ; but the place was
marvellously homelike. It was a sitting-room
lived in, where most things were for
service and in constant use. It was scrupulously
clean and bright, for cleanness
and brightness not only cost little  they
were conscientious duties and joys to Thole
Murray, which she felt bound to discharge
and cherish, and to hand on to her single
handmaiden Jeannie, culled from the Drysdale

Haugh working-girls. To have failed
in these respects would have been to risk
something by the admission of dust and
gloom in spoiling a candidate for life's
blessings and immortal gains.

Bookshelves, carved by Dr. Peter's skilful
hands, and full to running over, occupied
every inch of vantage-ground, and relieved
the homely style of the rest of the furniture.
For though the volumes were not chosen
on account of their binding, and were
mostly well-worn, buff calf, and red and
blue cloth, they did brighten up with soft
and gay tints the Quaker-like groundwork.
Summer and winter the room was never
without green leaves and very often flowers,
which Dr. Peter and Thole managed to
rear in perfection, to the piqueing of the
pride of the gardeners at Drysdale Hall,
and even to the smothered mortification of
Tarn Drysdale. Tarn was generous, but he
desired as his right to have the best that
money could produce ; and was not money

the engine of engines, even in the delicate
domain of lilies and roses ?

Above all, the Barley Riggs parlour had
a wealth of pets, remarkable, considering
its narrow bounds and constant occupation
by the family  a dog, a cat, and a kitten
lived on the best of terms with a variety of
birds. But these were only the indoor
stock. Outside, pigeons fluttered on the
roof of the house and on the window-sills ;
swallows built in the eaves; tame pheasants
sat on the branches of the nearest trees ; a
couple of hedgehogs scuttled away across
the walks. In the paddock a goat and
its kid were tethered ; and Dr. Peter's
pony, and an old Shetland pony, which
Thole had ridden as a child, roamed at
their own sweet will, sharing the pasture 4
with an Alderney cow and her calf. A
large family of poultry looked out from
behind the wire-net fencing their poultry-yard,
like nuns from the other side of a
grating. The whole little territory was

teeming with life, and the occupants took
the keenest interest in it all  down to the
butterflies and beetles among the wallflowers
and irises, the caterpillars on the
cabbage-leaves, the bees on the thyme. If
it be true that

He prayer best who loveth best
All things both great and small,'

then surely Dr. Peter and his daughter
Thole prayed well.

He was a long, lean man, very brown
and very grey, whose coats had a trick of
looking shabby, yet who had something
positively noble in his air, he was so
entirely beyond being touched by circumstances,
so sufficient for himself and those
he belonged to, so born to confer benefits
of their kind on all with whom he came
in contact.

Thole was very like him in being thin
and brown and dark-haired, as he had been
before he became grey. Her features were

refined, but so irregular as to be positively
bizarre. Her chief beauty lay in her grey
eyes. For reasons of her own, Atholc
Murray was fond of dressing in grey of all
shades, from slate to silver, in linen or silk
occasionally, and frequently in woollen
stuffs with the texture shifting to suit the
different seasons, and with names significant
of demureness and retirement from
the world  Carmelite nun's cloth ; and yet
nobody could be less demure or nun-like
than Thole Murray. She was a busy,
cheerful girl, a little over twenty. She
had an amount of humour and fun, liable
to mislead her neighbours with regard to
her earnestness, which made men's hearts
glad, and cost her some pains to keep
within reasonable bounds.

On the evening of an April day, Thole
was sitting in the parlour at Barley Biggs,
at a little table which was peculiarly hers,
diligently drawing designs for the calico-printers.
She had lithe, capable hands

which could not be idle. They had been
early trained to a variety of occupations.
Thole could not only sew all manner of
needle-work, cook daintily, clean deftly : she
could carve in wood better than her father
could. She could etch like a second-rate
etcher ; she could paint on china, not merely
for exhibitions of amateur performances, but
so cleverly that a china manufacturer of
some reputation had offered her regular work
and good wages. She had compounded
with her father for his persistence in making
a provision for her future, by taking upon
her a share of the present household expenses,
and supplying the necessary funds
from a neat little income which she gained
by being the most original designer employed
at the Drysdale Haugh Works.

Thole was in grey as usual, but she had
a blue knot where her little white collar met
the neck of her gown, and companion blue
knots where her sleeves terminated above
her slim round wrists. She had told her

father in confidence  these two were great
friends  that were it not for the hindrance
they would offer to her going out to look
after the beast tribe, and the temptation the
fashion might present to Jeannie, their handmaiden,
she(Athole) would sport another pair
of blue bows in her shoes. She was entitled
to compensation for always appearing as ' a
grey lady' when all the colours of all the
Drysdale Haugh dye-vats were perpetually
before her eyes.

"What made her do so ? It was so oblivious
and so like a man to ask. Of course
familiarity bred contempt. Of course she
chose to be out of the common in plainness,
since she could not witch the world with
splendour like Clary Drysdale ; and it would
not suit her complexion to be always in pink
like Eppie. Did he not know green w T as the
complement of red, and if she figured in any
tinge of rose-colour she would come out as
the Green Woman. She would be solicited
by half a dozen caravans to give them the

benefit of her unique charms for Glasgow
Fair. How would he like that ?

No, grey was her safeguard. Besides,
grey had nothing to lose, and did not fade,
and many cheap materials were considerately
dyed that colour. It was her duty as a
sensible woman, especially in relation to
their handmaid Jeannie, to set before her an
example of economic and rational clothing,
not unbecoming under the difficult circumstances.
It was little she could do ; but,
like the man who would not wear a miller's
hat though it cost him his life, she was prepared
to make a stand  to go to the scaffold
if she were sent there in a righteous cause,
in a protest against the extravagance 
whether in art-colours* or in aniline dyes,
in straight lines or in puffs and folds  of
her sex, in the matter of dress in this generation.


As Thole drew in her particular window,
her father entertained a visitor. The stranger's
presence did not disturb the young

lady in her occupation, not even though
that stranger was young Tarn Drysdale, the
son of the master of the calico printing-works.
She did not stop her work. She made no
pretence of concealing the pattern on which
she was engaged. She did not even go on
stiffly and awkwardly, as if she ignored a
spectator.

She asked him once to look at what she
was doing. 'Are you acquainted with this
geometrical flower, Mr. Tom ? I am afraid
it " never grew' like the tree in the city
arms

When he answered, a little put outby
her appeal, that he had no doubt her
design was an excellent one for the purpose,
she knew better than he did, she acquiesced
quietly with a laugh that had some pleasure
and no annoyance in it. ' I dare say I do.
I have worked for eighteen months in this
way, and if I have not failed in my reckoning,
I have done this pattern with variations
twenty-two times. No, don't pity me, I

beg,' she interrupted young Tarn as he
prepared to address her with a portentously
grave face. ' I am not an object of pity. I
am not a struggling artist nipped in the bud,
or a martyr to the wants of a numerous
family. I think that I am neat-handed,
have some notion of colour, and some idea
of what a calico-pattern ought to be, if you
will allow me to say so ; but that is the
extent of my capacity. And it is not a
hardship in other respects to work like this
for two or three hours a day from choice for
liberal pay, considering the nature of the
work. It rather soothes than wearies me.
My father has trained me to do something
of the kind to keep me in order, lest I should
get so audacious that I should not be fit to
live with.'

She told him this easily and composedly,
but for the twinkle in her grey eyes. It
did not enter into her head that there was
anything unworthy in itself or disparaging
to her in working for pay  working for his

father. She was more than his equal by-birth,
for the Murray s were of gentle descent
as far back as they could count, and
his equal by education, though she did not
dress in purple and fine linen, or fare sumptuously
every day. She was his mother's
and sisters' friend, though Clary, with
her own engagements, did not come half so
often to Barley Piiggs as Eppie came. It
did not seem to Thole Murray that any
drawing of patterns, though it had been ever
so repugnant to her, while, as it chanced,
she liked it, could alter these facts.

Young Tarn took one part of her speech
seriously, and answered her, standing, looking
a protesting giant by her side :

1 beg your pardon, Miss Murray ; I was
not going to pity you. I agree with Goethe
that life is earnest, and work, so that it is real,
is about the best thing we have. I only
pity the w r orders who have no advantage from
their work, or, if they have, advantage of
the grossest kind or in the scantiest degree.

I pity still more the men and women who
think they are profiting by toil that is done
by proxy, while they are simply pampering
what is lowest in their own natures and
reducing themselves to the role, if not of
brutes, of fools and dolls.'

Young Tarn spoke with bitterness, but
with freedom, as he could not do at home.
He was in another atmosphere  more congenial,
nay, with a fascination for him,
widely as his hearers differed from him.

Dr. Peter took the trouble to contradict
his visitor most decidedly, to remonstrate
with him strongly. The elder man's lifelong
friendship with Tam senior, in spite
of their divergences, warranted the step.
Besides, Dr. Peter had known young Tam
more or less for years, entertained a considerable
regard for him, and would not let
him go far wrong if he (Dr. Peter) could
help it.

Come, come, young Tam Drysdale, you
are going a great deal too far. Commun-vol.

1. 12

ism  not to say Nihilism  has been proved
rank folly over and over again. If you
think so little of wealth, ease, and luxury,
why need you grudge them to the favoured
few, and cry out like a bairn or a fanatic
against the want of them in the many ?'

'Well, sir said Tarn, with a grim smile,
you are about the last person I should
have expected to find upholding riches,
with the power they are supposed to confer
and the sacrifices they entail.'

Dr. Peter shrugged his narrow, stooping,
student's shoulders. ' I suppose that is a
hit at me because I have not made a fortune
with my lancet and stethoscope. To tell
the truth, I do not greatly miss it. Athie
and I can get along famously with what we
have ; we'll not say how much or how
little, lest I should make you open your
eyes, Maister Tarn. But I don't want to
compel all the world to have our tastes ;
the uniformity would bo inconvenient, to
say the least, and a trifle tiresome

You don't mean to say that you approve
of keeping some noses at the grindstone in
order that the same feature in other people
may be cocked in the air said Tarn satirically
 ' that you, who are a medical man
and expound the laws of health, give your
consent to cellars and garrets on the one
hand, to match palatial mansions on the
other ? You are something of a reformer,
and you are a church-going man. Are you
satisfied as a patriot and a Christian with
the physical, moral, and intellectual condition
of the two great classes in a commercial
centre like Glasgow V

How so ? In what light ?' asked Dr.
Peter cautiously.

1 Take the well-to-do/ young Tarn explained.
' They are never weary boasting
what they can get for their money. They
lay themselves out to spend at the greatest
rate. They glory in the reversal of their
early practice  not merely where a little
cheap refinement and higher education are

122

concerned. They turn their backs on the
past, and load themselves with burdens too
heavy to be borne, of altered habits, late
hours, unpalatable arrangements, uncongenial
associates. They make asses of
themselves in dress, at table, with their
hunters and hounds, their plate, their
pictures and books  all for the sake of
showing what fine gentlemen they have
grown, when the truth is they were a
deal nearer being gentlemen, if gentlemen
were true men, in the rough guise
in which they started.'

You are going a great deal too far,
Tarn,' repeated Dr. Peter severely; 'but
what of the other class?' very much in
the tone in which the prisoner at the bar
interrupted the summing-up of the judge
with ' It's a lie, my lord; but go on.'

Do I need to tell the poor men's doctor,
who attends them more for love than for
money, what their case is like  asked
young Tarn, with his voice softening a

little. ' While they are toiling in the
sweat of their brows, without hope of
rising to greater ease and leisure, their
hearts are eaten through and through
with envy at the distant sight and sound
of good things which the audience is too
ignorant to understand are no better than
fairy gifts  glittering pinchbeck and spun
glass. They are worse  heavy clogs to
weigh down men and women unaccustomed
to lives of parade and sensuous indulgence,
cankers to destroy the bravest manliness
and the sweetest womanliness. The working
class, with their desperate strikes, their
fits of starvation and their fits of excess,
their gross materialism, their worn-out
bodies and tramp] ed-down souls, their
conceited atheism  you know better what
they are than I do, Dr. Peter Murray

'I should think so, lad  I should hope
so ; and the rich too, for I am happy to
say I have some of them for my patients
and friends also, though it may lower mein

your estimation to hoar it. Young Tarn,
you arc flying in the face of Providence,
you arc counting the spots in the sun,
and challenging its lustre. There are such
things as faults that lean to virtue's side,
and vanities which are but the dust of the
earth that gathers on some of the noblest
works of God and man. No man, be he
rich or poor, is bound to be a slave either
to his gains or his deprivations. Tam
Drysdale, you have no more respect for
the poor than for the rich. You do not
honour all men. What do you take the
poor for, that you should speak of them
as if they were debased helots, instead of
honest men and women who call no man
master, in one sense ? Every sturdy dy
and patient bleacher, every hammered and
weaver and mill girl among them, has his
or her destiny in his or her hands, in all
essentials as much as you or I have. A
poor man or woman can be as decent and
intelligent as you or I, with the intelligence

of mot her wit, which is infinitely higher
than the thin veneer of education that,
to tell the truth, sometimes covers up
and wastes what finer grace and natural
polish the wood ever had.'

Tarn looked taken aback, and remained
silent, while Dr. Peter waxed more and
more indignant.

The times are hard, indeed, and things
have come to a pretty pass, if a respectable
working man or woman  it is all one 
who is not a fool and can practise self-denial,
like a man or like a woman, cannot
earn independence. Such independence
means comfort and the power of showing
you a bien [comfortable] house and a canty
[cheery] fireside, whose owner has no cause
to grow green with envy at the masters, no
call to ruin himself or herself in a wild
attempt to pull them down and reign in
their stead. No doubt, trials are rained on
some poor sinners; it happens so occasionally,
and shuts our mouths. But we cannot

see the end from the beginning, and even
then the back is made for the burden. No,
spare your pity, sir, or pity yourself ended
Dr. Peter, flinging himself back in his
chair.

Never mind him, Mr. Tom.' Thole
looked up from her drawing to come to the
rescue. ' You have rubbed him the wrong
way, as I often do. Nobody is to pity,
rich or poor, except yourself, father  is that
not it V

Bairn, I see a great deal to pity, and I
have no objection to my neighbours sharing
that luxury, if they find it such. But I
will not have wholesale condemnation, or
stock of abuse in the guise of pity. Maister
Tarn, you who are fresh from the schools
should know a trick worth two of that.
Surely the philosophy of all the centuries
has found out something better than to
keep on pitting the classes against each
other, and setting them by the oars when
their strength is in the union  not of the

men alone, but of the men and the masters,
in making the best and not the worst of
-each other

Then you judge trades' unions to be a
mistake in social economy ? You condemn
them in the face of all they have got for
the people, which was only their just right ?'
said young Tarn, eager to catch at the
inference and nail down his adversary.

1 1 neither judge nor condemn. The
question is beyond me, and may be beyond
you too, if you will allow me to say so,'
Dr. Peter excused himself, with a comical
twinkle replacing the gleam of indignation
in his eyes. ' There are great difficulties
here, as there are in every human problem.
However, I can see that many, both rich and
poor, are doing their best, and I for one
won't quarrel with them, though they do
not find the solution at once, or blunder
in the search as their fathers have done
before them. I have seen great changes
and improvements in my day

Of what kind ?' inquired young Tain
dubiously.

For instance, here at Drysdale Haugh,
I remember when there were few cylinders
in comparison with the blocks. The work
was ten times harder than it is now, and
took ten times as long to do. There was
no thought then of machines to relieve the
men who had to keep and turn the yam on
the rods, hanging for hours over the cisterns
of boiling dye liquor. As for the
houses or hovels for the hands, you might
have had occasion for your attacks in those
days, Maister Tarn. I tell you that your
father has been nothing less than a benefactor
to his folk, and I'm proud to sav
you'll not find better quartered, more fairly
and liberally treated work people on this
side of Glasgow. I only hope you may do
as much for your neighbours when your
time comes

1 I don't wish to smother my father's
honour said young Tarn, with a faint

smile and a slight increase of colour.
There is one thing, he knew by experience
what the people lacked. What I
regret is that he was not content to remain
one of them, to share the joys and sorrows
he was so well acquainted with  to raise
them if you will, but not to break off from
them and put himself into a position which
is not natural to him. Well, it sits ill upon
him, and makes him lose his proper dignity.
It brings out what is least admirable in him
there can be no disrespect in saying that
observed young Tarn with some ingenuousness
; ' and it exposes him to the ridicule of
people who are immeasurably his inferiors.'
If they are his inferiors, why need airr-
bocly heed ? Fools will laugh whether you
give them cause or not  not that I see
anything to laugh at in your father, or any
laughter going. He is one in a thousand,
who has not only done well by himself, but
by all around him. He is held in very
high and general respect, as he deserves to

be, I would have you to understand, Maister
Tarn. As for not rising above his original
footing, or not taking the benefit of the
labour of his hands, supposing he holds it
to be a benefit, and not occupying the post
he is fitted for and called to fill, you are
speaking arrant nonsense. You would
have castes, in hard and fast lines, in
Christian England as in heathen India.
Fine sources of progress they have proved
in the East ! You would remove one of
the greatest inducements for ordinary men
to struggle and endure, and bring the work
of their lives to perfection.'

And if every man acted as he spoke,'
retorted Tarn, ' you should be a court
physician at least.'

I square no man's life by my rule. If
I have found that my tastes are all of a
homely kind, it is my own look-out. In
point of fact, artificial and complicated
forms interfere with what I like and can do.
Thole and I flourish best on a moderate

income, in a plain old house, with a single
servant-lass

Speak for yourself, father,' asserted
Thole from her coign of vantage. 'How
do you know that I would not prefer to bea
Turkish sultana, or an Arcadian shepherdess,
or the principal of a Ladies'
College ? But there, speak of angels  I
see Mr. Drysdale and Eppie  her visit into
the Newfoundland puppy  at the gate.'

There was a little commotion of welcome
as old Mr. Drysdale and Eppie entered
Barley Kiggs house, in which young Tarn
Drysdale fell into the background. His
father's eyes followed him, and then glanced
with a quick suspicion from his son to
Thole. Was there any loadstone here
which drew Tarn from his useless studies
and might serve to make or mar him, independent
of his other vagaries ? No ; it
could not be a brown, shipped, plainly-dressed
lassie, working as a designer, though she
was a lady born and bred  auld Tarn did not

deny that. Tain never addressed Thole,
even in giving her his views on printed
-calico patterns, without calling her ' Miss
Murray, mem paying the respect due to
her in double measure, as it were. Still,
though she had not forfeited her young ladyhood
in his eyes, he was alive to the light
in which many people would regard her ;
he fully recognised her disqualifications as a
possible match for his son. She would have
no more than a penny or two, if Dr. Peter
could scrape together that for her, and young-tarn
might have a fine girl like Clary, with
as good a tocher. If ' Sir Denies' had
owned a daughter, Tarn might even have
pretended to her. No, he could not be so
blind and besotted. Dr. Peter's daughter
was a good lassie and a clever lassie, and
auld Tarn rather liked her on his own account
; but she was not for young Tarn.
His eccentricity could not go the length of
fancying her.

Eppie was come after the Newfoundland

dog, and without the smallest disguise she
announced her errand, drew Dr*. Peter out
to the stable, and was presently seen in the
distance hugging a black fluffy ball in her
arms ; while her companion, nothing loth,
for both of the Eppies were pets of his,
marshalled her round the paddock, introducing
her in succession to every member
of his numerous family.

Auld Tarn remained where he was. In
spite of his boast the night before of being-able
to walk to Glasgow and back, he was
tired enough to be glad to rest in one of
the heavy, roomy Barley Eiggs parlour
chairs. Thole was under the necessity of
bearing him and young Tarn company.

She had no objection ; she had as great
a liking for the elder Tarn as her father had
for Mrs. Drysdale and Eppie. She seemed
to know exactly what suited him, as if she
belonged to him. She brought him with her
own hands, in spite of his protest, such a
glass of draught ale and such a water biscuit

as he had been wont to refresh himself with
twenty years before, and still liked from old
association. While he drank the ale and
munched the biscuit, to his evident solace,
she chatted with him about the weather,
about her flowers and his, admitting herself
fairly beaten in polyanthuses before she
claimed the superiority in white primroses.
She gave him her lively report of the
pattern-room, and the good effect with
which the last designs were likely to come
out. It was she who, before the others
returned, introduced the subject which lay
very near Tain Drysdale's heart. This was
certain experiments he was making in
mordants and pastes. He grew radiant in
describing the improvements he hoped to
bring about in dyeing and printing, until
young Tam was stirred up to ask a question
or two, and to offer a sensible suggestion. Asa
boy he had gone considerably beyond the
ordinary boyish stage of dabbling in chemicals,
and threatened to blow himself and his

family to atoms in gratifying his taste. There
had been a time when young Tarn, to his
proud father's delight, had shown decided
promise in what might have been called the
paternal field. The son had mortified the
father deeply by abandoning the laboratory
for the library; but to-night, with Thole
Murray for a link between the two men,
young Tarn testified some of his old interest
in the subject.

Eppie came in crying, ' Father, I have
seen such a heap of beasts ;' but auld Tarn
did not heed her. The fascination of the
theme entrapped Dr. Peter also. The three
men engaged in a conversation in which the
words ' retort,' ' deposit,' ' affinity,' i discharge,'
' hold fast,' were for ever coming to
the surface.

Thole fell out of the talk, apparently
without being missed. She set herself to
entertain Eppie, who was too much entranced
with her baby Newfoundland to stand in
need of amusement.

VOL. I. 13

The discussion was not ended when the
party of Drysdales left together. For the
moment the division between the father and
the son had been so bridged across by the
sympathetic warmth of the interest evoked,
that auld Tarn as he walked away plucked
young Tarn by the sleeve in a way he had
not done for months. The action was for
the better emphasizing of an additional reason
for the course the experimenter was taking
in order to get an unsurpassable tint of
orange, which by a junction with an unapproachable
blue was to lead to an unassailable
green ; but the motive did not signify,
the result was everything.

Thole Murray smiled as her eyes followed
the departing figures. Then she
came and stood by her father's side on the
hearth rug and assailed him for an opinion.

Don't you think, father, that some day
young Tarn Drysdale will go heart and soul
into his father's business ; that he will pull
down Drysdale Hall and build it up bigger

and grander, or have another place in finer
taste, which will cost a great deal more, and
take twice the pains to create its delicate
harmonies ? and don't you imagine that,
earnest as Goethe found life, young Tarn
will take heart before all is done, and dance
the night out and the morning in, as many
times as there are hairs in his head, without
regard to the excusable occasions of Clary's
and Eppie's weddings.'

I don't know about the dancing and the
building, Athie ; but the young fellow will
ripen, and lose his sour flavour, and be
wholesome social food in the course of
nature, if he does not contrive to make a
mess of himself and his life in the meantime,
before they have righted themselves.
He is in a transition state and a morbid
frame, disgusted with himself and the
world. He has come into auld Tarn's
gains without going through the process
of earning them, and he cannot digest
them.'

132

1 Are they so ill to digest ? ' inquired
Thole incredulously.

So it seems. Young Tarn has approached
the question of employers and employed
without practical knowledge, and he is all
at sea. Yet it is to the honour of the lad
that he will not leave the question-alone.
But he sees every discrepancy magnified
and distorted. He has an honest regard for
his father and mother  that thrawn chief
[cross fellow]  you heard what he said of
auld Tarn ; but that is just why it galls him
past bearing to see them make themselves
ridiculous. Between you and me they doit
oftener than I like to think when poor
Tarn brags and laws [boasts and puffs] of
his fields and gardens, his sheep and cattle,
his table and his cellar, his man-servants
and his maid-servants, and brings forward
their prices ; and when she mine -
minces her words, and tries some " 
" [long-nosed name that trips her
up. I do not wonder at young Tarn. I

could shake the kindly auld rules myself.'


'But young Tam need not see it,' maintained
Thole, with her head held high and
her eyes alight, ' I should like him a thousand
times better if he were deaf and blind, if
his honour for his father and mother were
a shield to screen them from his own over-critical
eyes, as well as his neighbours'
carping tongues.'

That is a woman's way of thinking,'
said Dr. Peter, at the same time giving his
daughter's hair a not disapproving stroke.
All feeling and no reasoning  all heart
and no head. Some people would call it
high fantastic, " but I never object to a
good woman's flights  least of all am I
likely to do it here, where I profit by them,
being a father myself, my dear

But, father,' interrupted Thole quickly
and indignantly, ' you are not like that

'I can only say I have not been tempted
he answered, with a laugh. ' But remember

it is not easy for young Tarn when, ashe
hints, there are people mean enough to
sorn " [trespass] on the hospitality of
Drysdale Hall, and jeer and laugh at its
master and mistress. I take it that men
are different from women here  I'll not
say that it is to their gain, with sharper
eyes, harder to blind, rougher tongues that
go straighter to the mark, and a greater
tendency to use the scalpel though they
cut into their own flesh

He knows how good and kind they are,
and that should be enough for him,' said
Thole stoutly. ' I admit they are laughable
sometimes ; they force me to laugh to
their faces, and then I am " black ashamed '
of my heartlessness, and could bite my
tongue out if I have said anything.'

But he does not laugh, lassie ; he leaves
that to Miss Clary, if any of them is guilty
of such light laughter. Ay, if you must do
either in the circumstances, it is a mighty
deal better to greet [weep] if you are a

woman, and gloom [frown] if you are a
man, than to mock with the mockers,
as it is safer  taking a certain parable into
consideration  though I grant you less
pleasant, to be disgusted than to be charmed
with yourself.'

Young Tarn will never be half so nice
as his father,' said Thole, still betraying
tokens of discontent, while she arrived at
her conclusion meditatively. ' I'm fond
of auld Tarn.'

1 So am I, Thole. But young Tarn,
with all the expense bestowed on his education,
has not had the same chance ; and
he's a chip of the old block in many
respects. He may be led, but he will
not be driven ; yet that auld full Tarn,
who knows himself, and ought to know
his son, seeks to drive him.'

- He's so horribly self-conscious ; he has
mounted such a very tall hobby-horse, and
he rides it so pragmatically and unmercifully.
He rejoices so in his superiority

and consequent martyrdom ; lie is so ridiculously
young in his grievances.'

That is a fault which will mend every
day her father told her hopefully. ' I
think of many of the young men of his
class, of their entire engrossing satisfaction
with their pretty selves, their bit toy yachts
and hunters, club dinners, and dances such
as you propose for young Tarn Drysdale'e
heavy head and exercised heart. I reckon
up these gentlemen's small ambitions of
being noticed by the country gentry, of
pushing themselves up to marry into the
higher ranks, and have wives as silly as
themselves, that despise their commercial
partners. And the conclusion I come to is
that such fellows are but a parcel of spoilt
boys compared to a lad, ill-conditioned
you may say as yet, but who has the
making of a man in him. More than
that, you must remember, Thole, all that
I have mentioned is innocent enough, but
there are other ways  not to be spoken of

to ears like yours, while it is right that you
should know of their existence. There are
means of selfishly indulging in prosperity,
and wildly rioting in the days of a man's
youth, that end  as surely as the rivers
run to the sea  in the foul wallowing of
swine in the mire, or in the wickedness
of devils. Contrast young Tarn and his
troubles with such rich men's sons and
their brutal experiences, and his father
and mother may thank God for the day
that he was born to them.'

The conversation had grown too serious
to be prolonged, and it had taken a turn
which rendered it impossible for Thole
to contradict her father further.

LIEUTENANT ENEAS MACKINNON DUE IN
ST. MUNGO'S SQUARE.

The Miss Mackinnons were as loth to
deprive their grand-nephew of his military
title as Mrs. Drysdale had shown herself.
Indeed, they persisted, in spite of his protests,
in giving it to him whenever they
spoke of him. Even among themselves it
was as often the ' Lieutenant ' as ' Eneas

It would have been hard to deprive the
old ladies of one of the scanty rewards of
a step for which both he and they paid
dearly  how dearly in his case they had
happily no idea. It would have gone far
to break their hearts if they had guessed
that he had cause to rue sorely the boyish

delusion and the family pride  to which
they had ministered  that had ended by
placing him in his present position. It was
at once a great deal less and a great deal
more than what was in the Miss Mackintosh'
eyes the gallant calling of a gentleman,
which transferred him instantly to
the society of his equals, and raised him
triumphantly above all further difficulty,
with nothing to do save ' wear his regimentals
which, to their great regret, the
grand aunts almost never saw him do ;
go where her Majesty and his country
cared him,' which as yet had only been to
a tame routine of town and country quarters,
not even to any corner of Africa ;
fecit like a hero for which there was
literally no opportunity ; and wait for promotion
which was never likely to come.

The abolition of the purchase system was
not calculated to be of any service to Lieutenant
Eneas Mackinnon. He had neither
special military ability, nor spirit, nor heart

to urge him to study theoretically the art
of war, go in for a series of competitive examinations,
and come out with a new brevet
rank from every encounter. And if it were
possible for him to remain thirty years a
lieutenant, like Havel rock, it was certainly
very improbable that he would complete
the similitude, and end by dying a victorious
general. He would need to be as lucky
as Sir Frizzle Pumpkin to accomplish such
a feat, for though Eneas w r as brave enough
not to be a disgrace to his Trojan namesake,
he had no head for organizing and
manoeuvring bodies of men  not even on a
chess-board. He was a great improvement
on his father, but was still a reflection of
the paternal nature in its slowness and
heaviness. The best thing about him was
his honesty and modesty, the ingrained
attributes of a real, not an imitation,
gentleman, which he had acquired
somehow from some far-off Mackintosh
was true, he was unassuming in

place of being pompous like Gavin Mac-kin
non.

Eneas was silent and lonsf-sufferinof in
the thorny path of poverty on which he
had been launched onions richer men, without
the smallest hope of bettering himself.
He was as inoffensive a member of a family
as Lady Semple had described him, winning
sympathy and a certain amount of respect
by the magnanimity which caused him to
bear his own burden without inflicting it
on the shoulders of another. The forbearance
might be due to pride as much as to
generosity or veritable humility ; still, it
was a respectable quality, and one to be
thankful for. He was one of the passive
young men of the period, who looked on
and smiled a little languidly  even without
complaint changed his course in a leisurely
manner, to suit that of his neighbour, and
did not do more than shrug his shoulders
at what went against the grain with
him. He formed a complete contrast to

young Tarn Drysdale, who was naturally
of the aggressive order, in danger of doing
something desperate, in the rash arrogance
of youth, which burns to set right the world
that has been rolling on its path thousands
of years before he came into being.

Eneas Mackinnon, as he was more of a
gentleman, was also handsomer than any
of his race who had appeared for two generations.
The clumsy features of his great-aunts
had in him taken a symmetrical
mould. He w T as less large for a man than
they were for women ; still, he was broad-shouldered
and long-limbed enough for a
soldier. He had borrowed from the plebeian
Craigs chestnut instead of tow-coloured
hair, with blue eyes, which had a certain
bucolic mildness and softness in them. Ashe
stood in a doorway or on a flight of
steps, or leant his back against a tree on a
lawn, or propped himself upon a table or
the arm of a couch, he was a little like a
statue of a fine phlegmatic Englishman, but

it was a statue which would have done the
sculptor fair credit.

The Lieutenant, supposing he ever became
a general, would be a general without a
penny of private fortune, who must at the
same time support the increased dignity of
his rank. He must continue a bachelor,
and by so doing restrict his expenses to his
personal wants, ' collaring ' the increase of
income through the grades of captain, major,
etc., to furnish him, and him alone, with an
increase of comforts proportionate to the
advance of age and the infirmities of ae.
If he permitted himself to marry, perhaps
to bring into the world a small clamorous
family, in addition to an exacting wife, he
would be as painfully put to it, in spite of
his laurels  as pressed, worried, stinted 
as threadbare  as miserably anxious for
the future not only of himself, but of those
connected with him, as any light-pursed
subaltern writhing under the yoke of bondage
he had unwittingly assumed. This was

an age of luxurious living and regard
extravagance, a commercial age, when a
pseudo-working man like Tarn Drysdale of
Drysdale Hall set up an establishment fit
for a laird of many acres or a peer of the
realm, and left gentlemen and officers far
behind.

Eneas Mackinnon submitted to destiny
with the fatalism of the Gael. His regiment
was now quartered at Dumbarton.
He was often in Glasgow as well as at
Semple Barns. The last opportunity had
been decidedly a boon to him. The former
was the occasion of his being extensively
taken out in the richest, and sometimes the
clearest houses of certain o-oro-eous circles
in Glasgow. He had availed himself of
the chance, even while he rebelled in a stony
fashion against the infliction, as a lawful
means of relieving his over-taxed resource
He despised himself for it, but what could
he do?  especially if he were to bestow small
gifts on the ' aunties,' who were certainly

growing more penurious every day, and
beginning to deny themselves the very
necessaries oflife in an exasperating manner,
not uncommon with old women, he had
heard. Better that he should stand beings
feted by pipe-makers and retired spirit-dealers,
and have to hobnob with their
bumptious sons and dance with their
bouncing daughters, than that he should
run into debt and shoot himself, and bring
his particular tabbies to the grave with
horror at the catastrophe. As yet the
notion that he might some day have to sell
himself bodily by marrying one of these
tottered lasses to keep body and soul together,
only loomed before his imagination
as a dark necessity in the distance.

The young man groaned inwardly over
his visits to St. Mungo's Square, as he
groaned over most of the acts of his purgatorial
life. To his credit he paid the visits
with tolerable frequency and regularity,
though latterly he had been plagued by an

vol. i. 14

unaccountable rule established by Miss
Janet, that he should always send them an
intimation of his coming beforehand.

1 Your auntie Meye is getting frail, you
see,' Miss Janet had the excuse, ' and a
wee thing starts her ; and me or your auntie
Betheye might be out of the road and miss
you, which would be a thousand parties.'

So, with one more of his many smothered
groans, Lieutenant Eneas was in the habit
of perpetrating small notes and despatching
them as avant couriers every time that
he descended on St. Mungo's Square.

It is making such a fuss about a fellow's
movements, and one feels as if one ought
to bring handsome presents he reflected,
glancing deprecatingly at the little parcel
of gloves  women always wanted gloves
  his own size suited ' the aunties.' His
cast-off Hexham hans would have been
better than new pairs, for the last had
been surreptitiously exchanged as misfits,
by Miss Bethia, for more of the yarn she

was constantly knitting now, in the intervals
of the white seam which was kept in
the background. The gentleman's socks
might be for ' the Lieutenant though
soon after entering his regiment he had,
somewhat to his aunties' mortification,
declined politely further services from their
knitting-needles, or the woollen articles
might be muffatees and what-not for the
Dorcas table at a bazaar ; but plain needlework
was more difficult to explain away.
Shirt making had gone out of fashion as a
becoming attention from ladies to their
male relations, and it might well be thought
that the Miss Mackinnons had each an
ample stock to last her all her days of
under-linen of her mother's bleaching and
her grandmother's spinning.

Eneas would add to the gloves a brace
of partridges of his own shooting, or a
basket of grapes from the Semple Barns
vineries, or from other and less aristocratic
mansions  the contents of which were at

142

his disposal if he chose. The grapes went
the same way as the gloves, the luxuries
were exchanged for necessities. But the
partridges, if they were not adroitly confiscated
to the use of the donor, made a
feast-day in the old house in St. Mungo's
Square. They constituted what the ladies
called 'a flesh dinner,' a gross meal in
which the eaters had ceased to indulge
every day.

The whole establishment always put on
its best face. The blanks and deficiencies
were hidden by a series of elaborate
manoeuvres which sometimes took an hour
or two to carry out. The Miss Mackintosh
wore their company gowns and caps
on the days when they expected their
grand-nephew. It was a temporary return,
however halting, to the glories of the past,
and though the effort cost trouble, it refreshed
the jaded spirits and put new life
into the drudging, sordid existence of the
hard-tried women.

I wonder if he'll notice that anything
more is missing,' suggested Miss Janet
mysteriously. ' There's the clock and the
ile picture of the Pretender, whom our
great-grandfather waited on at Sheffield
House, though he had no thocht of going
out with the Prince. Both the clock and
the picture are gone since Eneas was here.
The last time, you mind, we took him upto
Auntie Meye's bedroom, where less has
been lifted. But men are not noticing,
and if the Lieutenant minds the twa
things, he may think the one is at the
watchmaker's and the other at the picture-cleaner's,
and put no questions. But mind,
Betheye, you maun be ready with your
answer that he maun have forgotten we
have a spring cleaning, when we pu' things
about. It's just a divert to 
auld eddies like us. It's true in the
main, and for a white lee or twa  they cannot
be helped  I trust we may be forgiven
in a gude cause. Better tell them than

break a fine lad's spirit. The Mackintosh
 the men of them  had high spirits, that
would not have brooked what we could tell

 How could they have helped brooking
it, Janet V asked Miss Bethia a lieth
stolidly ; and then, without waiting I
learn the result of an idle inquiry to which
Miss Janet vouchsafed no reply, Miss
Bethia continued  ' What I'm mast feared
for is Meye coming out with some piece of
information she should keep to herself. I
have signalled to her to ca' canny [be prudent],
in case o' mistakes, till she's grown
forty [cross] about it, and she wonders if I
want her, the eldest, to be dumb as well
as deaf.'

Pair Meye !' said Miss Janet in accents
loud commiseration, which, however,
did not penetrate the sealed ears of what
looked like the image of a woman huddled
up in shawls, with eyes that, in place of
showing the dimness of ao'e, had a birdlike
brightness about them as they darted

swiftly, trying to do the work of two senses,
from the one to the other of the speakers.

Preserve us a', she's reproaching us at
this minute,' said Miss Janet, as she rose
with some signs of rheumatic stiffness,
went to the slate hung on the wall behind
her sister's chair, took it down, and wrote
on it in large letters, as if Miss Mackinnon
were blind as well as deaf, ' We're feared
for you letting out anything before the
Lieutenant.'

Do you tak' me for an edit V Miss
Mackinnon retorted with asperity, while
Miss Janet w r as he fully erasing in the most
primitive manner what she had written.

1 Since the Belie has lent us back the
punch-bo wl to lie for the day in its auld
place below the sideboard,' reflected Miss
Janet with some complacency, l and Kate
Carstairs has sent over her cut crystal
claret jog, which is the marrow o' what
ours used to be, the room may pass

If he'll not draw up the blinds,' said

Miss Bethia anxiously ; ' men have aye
such a work with licht. I'll be sitting on
eggs lest he should find out that half of
the chairs now are bedroom chairs.'

1 Hoots ! he'll be at the fit of the table,
and he never moves since he has set down.
Eneas is not a jumping-jack  he gangs
about his business with deliberation, as
befits a gentleman, and no a waiter that's
aye bobbin' up at your elbe. I wish he
had gotten something better than the
toasted cheese that name of us can touch
even in the middle of the dav, for our
stomachs,' ended Miss Janet, half unconsciously
committing a pious fraud on herself
and her sisters, and not caring to recall
that, for the price of the cheese and suchlike
dainties, the family had been obliged
to go without a scraping of butter on their
bread for more than one breakfast and
tea  their principal meals lately. ' But
it is only his lunch before his mess
dinner, and there's jelly and bread  he

bad a great broke [trade] with jelly and
bread when he was a laddie  and the claret
in the claret jog to set affthe table.'

There was a pause, during which a kind
of scared look came into Miss Bethia's
pallid and haggard, no longer simpering
face.

If everything gangs bit by bit, Janet,'
she said with a little catch in her breath,
and we eat them a' up, there will sure be
not to say not a table to set a meal
upon, there will not be a meal left  the
very parritch and treble will fail. How
will we keep it from the Lieutenant, and
what will we do then V

1 Whisht ! things will never come to
that pass,' said Miss Janet with whitening
lips, but still speaking resolutely. ' You
never ken what may happen   a silly
[delicate] man cannot last for ever.'

1 Oh, Janet, if you mean Archie Fenton
of Strathdivie,' cried Miss Bethia, to whom
a nod was not as good as a wink, and

every innuendo must be made a plain
statement, ' it's ill counting' on dead men's
shoon, and he's younger than either you
or Meyer

'I ken that without your telling me,'
Miss Janet said snappishly. ' But none of
us, auld or young, can live for ever. Surely
he may dee as well as another. Forbye,
we've been felled the insurance offices
refused a policy on his life when his sister
was still to the fore ten years syne.'

1 But, oh, it's fearsome to speak of it l'
murmured Miss Bethia, as if the next act
in the drama would be a plotted murder.

1 I'm sure I'm not wanting to think or
speak about it; protested Miss Janet.

And I'm not sure but we've gave the
wrong way,' said Miss Bethia, hanging her
head, not so much with conscious guilt as
at finding fault with her elder sisters. 'If,
before we had let the furniture gang, we
had tried a gentleman lodger or twa '

1 Betheye Mackinnon, do you ken what

you're say in' V demanded Miss Janet, in a
voice the sternness of which was awful in
the culprit's ears. ' Is this like a common
lodging house ? I mind the day when for
the word " lodgers " to have been breathed
in St. Mungo's Square would have been for
all Glasgy to be up in arms. Are we like
lodging-house keepers % Does the trade
fit the auld Virginian Mackinnons ? And
what of the Lieutenant's honour, I should
like to ken V

Well, I'm sure, Janet, I meant no
harm,' said Miss Betheye, almost reduced
to tears ; l and folk were not so nice langsyne.
I aye mind how our mother used
to speak of Teddy Mary and Teddy Betty
Bogle, who thocht no shame to be dressmakers,
though their father claimed an
earldom.'

The earldom claimed or allowed made
all the difference in the world,' said Miss
Janet oracularly. ' Not that the Mac-cannons
have not their riches as well as

the Bogle. Forbye, the mantua-making
and millinery was held a genteel trade.
But a lodging-house with maiden eddies
waiting' on strange men ! I wonder at you,
Betheye !'

The last stroke overwhelmed Miss
Bethia.

Eh ! I diana think,' she cried so falteringly
that her judge was mollified.

Weel, you maun mind another time
and not be so heedless with your words.
You're not a bairn now, Betheye. But
say no more about it. Let me hear about
the order that Walkinshaw's has riven
you for hand-made night-gowns. I might
manage the hemming of the tails [skirts]
and the running up of the seams, though
even with my glasses I cannot attempt the
stitching.'

1 I could manage it all fine myself, and
let you lie down in the afternoons ; you're
that troubled with the fires, and the flares,
and the beds, and only auld Tibbie to wash

out the doorsteps and carry wa' the miss.
Then Meye's winter boast [cough] is not
wa', so that ye cannot get rested in the
night. Oh, I could manage fine ! But
they say there's little demand for wandering,
so muckle is done now with the
machine. The feck o' folk are pleased
even though the ends are not fastened and
the sewing does not last. They have ta'en
fourpence aff the price, and they find faut
with the weathering,' ended Miss Bethia,
in a deplorable voice. ' The very thing
that I prided myself on  me that was sic
a gude worker of sprigged and heath e red
collars  do you mind V

Set them up !' cried Miss Janet indignantly.
' They sulci be proud to have a
teddy sew for them, that was the best
fancy-worker, as well as the best pianos
in Glasgy. But they ken nae
better. What sulci some auld mill lass,
ganging trailing now in silks and satins,
understand of weathering and springing?

It is a disgrace to the auld shop-folk that
they humour sic low gentry. I wonder
what Walkinshaw's would say if I sent
Eneas to them, ganging tramping into the
shop, and maybe drawing his sword, if he
were in his regimentals, because of the
insult to his auntie V

Na, na, Eneas maun never hear a cheep
[whispers about it ; you would be the last
to tell him. It would be a fell-like tiling
for him if it were ever aroused that ane of
his aunties  auld Eneas Mackinnons great-grandmothers
 wrocht for a shop. Sirs !
my heart came into my mouth the last
time he was here, and spoke of the Mac-masters'
ball, and me kennin' all the time,
and having only the word of Walkinshaw's
it would be kept secret, that I had just sent
to the shop a set of slip-bodies  cambyses,
they ca' them now  for the Miss
Ma cm asters!'

1 3Jiss Macmasters ! quo she,' echoed
Miss Janet, in the highest key ;  Lass

Macmasters would be liker the thing.
Why, her father was the lamp-lichter in
the Square, and his father a ferryman
up the water. I thocht, when he spoke,
officiers rnak' themselves cheap nowadays,
and the Macmasters' was not a house for
Eneas Mackinnon to set his foot until.'

1 For a' that, he said it was the bravest
house on that side of the Park, and the
Miss Macmasters were not ill-lookin, and
did their dancing-maister credit, if they
could but get rid of the Glasgy tongue. I
wonder what there is in the Glasgy ony
mair than in the Edinburgh or the Perth
speech. But they're no lecldies, or it
would signify how they spoke.'

Eddies ! Bab Paymaster's doctors
eddies ! Are you daft, Betheye ? But it
is about Eneas's hour. Meye's watch  the
last we have left  is not to be depended
on, and we haven the knock [clock] to
correct it by. I wish we were nearer a
toon knock. There are the factory bells

in the morning, and at the dinner hour,
and the sun on the wa' ; but when one
has not been bred to lippen [trust] to
them, they're apt to be deceitful. I maun
see to the cheese. Yes, you'll do,' as Miss
Bethia brushed down her shabby, turned
silk gown. ' You're looking uncommonly
weel, Betheye, and I've just to draw on
my gloves before I go to the front door.'

1 The Lieutenant thinks you're getting
prides', Janet, with your gloves.'

1 What for no ?' asked Miss Janet,
between jocoseness and defiance. ' I was
entitled to my pride in my youth, and
sae may I be yet. But I mauna forget
a parting word of caution to Meye.'

She crossed to the stationary, isolated
sister, and began an incomprehensible
pantomime of pointing with her ringer,
moving her jaws, shaking her head, and
waving her hand. When it seemed lost
on Miss Mackinnon, Miss Janet had again
recourse to the slate and slate-pencil, saying

regretfully, ' Poor Meye ! she's no sae leg
[quick] as she was wont to be ; we're so
ta'en up, she's left over muckle to herself
Miss Janet wrote  " If you please, Meye,
you'll not touch the cheese, lest there
should not be over muckle for the gentleman.
We'll have some of the bread and
jelly, which is the proper lunch for ladies.
If there is any cheese left in the dish, it
will toast up again for your tea.'

Miss Mackinnon understood now, and
answered in a voice hoarse and harsh from



the absence of modulation  she did not
appear propitiated. ' I think I ken what
is fit for eddies eating either at lunch or
dinner, without you giving me a lesson.
But you and Betheye are for ever whispering
and colleague thither, like a pair of
ill-bred bairns. I wish you had found
some other lunch for our nephew than
what makes the smell of a moose-trap allover
the house. You might have had
ham and eggs.'

vol. 1. 15

1 And the ham so dear, and the eggs
extortion !' broke in Miss Janet, in an aside
to Miss Bethink

Or a chop ; it is long since I have
tasted a chop,' Miss Mackinnon continued
to complain.

Pair body ! you would not have been
likely to taste it. The Lieutenant would
have eaten ane, maybe twa, for his ain
share, having a healthy young appetite,
and being without a care,' commented
Miss Janet once more.

Then Miss Mackinnon relented a little :
Diana fash [trouble] to keep cheese forme.
It is kind of you to think of it, but
I would not touch it if you and Betheye
had not your share, though it were but a
curran' [a crumb]. 'Deed, when I come
to think of it, I believe it does disagree
with my stomach ; but you, with your
housework, and Betheye with her walks
back and forwards to Walkinshaw's, should
be able to digest whin-states.'

FAMILY TALK.

Eneas arrived at the appointed time. He
was enough of a gentleman not to keep
people waiting, though he was also a male
version of that unfortunate princess on
whom the lines were written :

There was no hurry in her hands,
No hurry in her feet ;
For life had brought no joy to her
That she should run to meet

As yet, life had brought little joy to
Lieutenant Eneas. He was a stranded
young fellow, who had to keep a tight hold
of the most innocent inclination. He ate
the sparse meal of enforced self-denial and
petty economy, without any higher aim

152

than to keep himself afloat in an irksome
position. He saw no end to his slavery to
circumstances, while it was rendering him
hopeless and spiritless, though the youth
still left in him asserted itself by fits and
starts. He might turn his face to the wall
and knock under any day. It is men like
him who, when sickness comes, though they
are or ought to have been in the flush and
vigour of their days, make little fight for
life.

He was received with open arms, like a
conquering hero. But happily he was not
overpowered with caresses, for the Miss
Mackinnons were of the old tough Scotch
fibre that disdained fondling. He was
grateful to them for it, and put up with
other inconveniences, such as their perpetual
satisfaction with his position and
crow of exultation over his lot. It was
not for him to undeceive them ; besides
their world was not his world, they would
never appreciate his difficulties  he could

hardly dignify them by calling them
trials.

He had a vague impression that the old
grey house looked emptier and more cheerless,
as well as more haunted than formerly,
and that his aunts were liker scare-crows
than they used to be. The young sisters
dressed alike now, finding that, as they
were very much of one size, they could
manage better by borrowing and exchanging
articles of dress, so that a presentable
suit of clothes might be said to do duty
for both ladies so long as only one appeared
at a time. This was impossible in the
present instance, but it would not strike
Eneas if little bits of deshabille peeped out
here and there. The two wore the same
arrangement of lace  alas ! it was imitation
in these latter days  disposed about
the gaunt drab heads ; the same old-fashioned
collars reaching to the shoulders,
turned up cuffs, and ' belts ' round their
short waists. But what Miss Bethia had

gained in imposing style she had lost in
the quality of the materials.

By the time Lieutenant Eneas was
established at the foot of the table, and
the aroma of a dozen mouse-traps had
assailed his delicate nostrils, he felt a good
deal exercised by the necessity of divulging
a step he had taken. He was half
ashamed of its origin, and he was afraid
his aunts might suspect and resent the
liberty. But there was no retreat.

He had already presented units, which
Lady Semple had suggested as an appropriate
gift to old ladies. The offering had
met with approval, been received with
plaudits indeed ; only Miss Janet had
failed to remove her gloves, to try her
muffles, as she termed them, on her scan. <!
and disfigured hands.

Now he drew a carefully tied up roll of
paper from the pocket of his shooting-jacket,
and began to unfasten it with awkward
shyness.

I called in at Lang's on my way he
said, ' not for lunch, of course ; I knew it
would be awaiting me here. I wanted
something which I sometimes have to
breakfast. I don't know if you are familiar
with it, Auntie Janet, but I thought you
might like it for a change.'

1 Is't a cucumber V cried Miss Janet.

1 It's mair like row-chow tobacco,' said
Miss Bethia.

'It is a Bologna sausage,' said Eneas,
with a blush. ' It wants no cooking ; if
you will make the servant bring a knife
and fork and plate, I shall cut you some
slices, and you will see how good it is.'

I have not tasted it for mony a day,'
exclaimed Miss Mackinnon in her harsh
voice, with a hungry gleam in her sharp
eyes. ' The very smell goes about my
heart.'

1 It makes my mouth water,' chimed in
Miss Bethia, forgetting herself.

Miss Janet interposed quickly :

1 Betheye, you fetch the plate and knife
and fork. Lunch is not a meal of ceremony,
and the lass is out of the way.
She's never to be found when she's wanted,'
she went on, with a touch of the finesse of
Caleb Palmerston. ' There's sic a cry out
now for half-holidays and evenings to the
lasses' sel's, that masters and mistresses
are ill served.'

Miss Bethia returned with the necessary
implements, and with her mind set at rest
by the reinforcement to the eatables. She
could enjoy the contribution with a clear
conscience and a large appetite.

It's most delicious,' she prolonged
the word while she spoke with her mouth
full, and looked with eager invitation at
her sisters. ' Tak' another slice, Meye.
Help yourself, Janet. It was most kind
and mindful of you, Eneas, to think of
brinsfin the sausage.'

Good heavens!' thought the Lieutenant,
taken aback by the impressment with

which his attention to his own comfort
had been received, 'can the poor creatures
have become so miserly that they are in
danger of starving themselves to make a
hoard V But he was not quick to take up
an idea, and this one  partly fallacious 
dropped out of his mind, as he submitted
to a process of proud and affectionate
1 heckling ' or cross-questioning as to the
prosperous and brilliant course of life he
was supposed to lead.

c And what fine doings have you had of
late, Lieutenant V began Miss Janet.
Here's the slate and the slate-pencils disengaging
them from the wall and putting
them into his reluctant hands. ' Write
your news down for Meye, while you tell
them to me and your Aunt Betheye/

1 But unfortunately there is very little
to tell said Eneas, endeavouring to rouse
himself to call to mind and retail a little
information that would be agreeable to his
hearers. ' I was at Semple Barns for

three days last week. There were private
theatricals at the Hepburn' on Tuesday,
and a dinner and dance later in the evening
at the Gilhaizes' on Thursday.'

1 You're coming on. If three ploys ina
week are not enough to serve you,
you're ill to serve,' said Miss Bethia
gaily.

1 But they were not great ploys,' Eneas
felt driven to defend himself. ' The acting
at the Hepburn' was wretched, and the
dinner at the Gilhaizes' the most stupid
affair I have taken part in for an age.
Semple Barns was well enough. Lady
Semple is good-natured, and Sir James not
past tolerating; besides, young Semple's my
greatest chum in the regiment. No, no
claret, thanks, Aunt Bethia ; I never indulge
in it to luncheon ; I prefer a glass of
ale. Don't mind it to-day ; I see you do
not have it at hand  another time,' he murmured.
i Shall I pour you out some claret?
No ? Have you joined the Blue Ribbon

Army ? for I don't suppose that you swill
beer like a drayman or a sub.'

1 My dear, that's a fell-like comparison,
as well as a low-life expression.'

Miss Janet did not hesitate to rebuke
her favourite, but she spoke less sharply
than usual.

No; we're no Gude Templar remarked
Miss Bethia, ' but we find we're as well
without wine  it's heating for the blue.
We just keep the claret-jog as a finish to
the table.'

I hope you explain the nature of the
case to your visitors,' said Eneas seriously.
You know there is a prejudice against
decanted wine which has stood about.
Suppose some unlucky fellow who holds
the prejudice were to help himself, not
knowing the state of matters !'

Hoots ! we cinna want ony of your
mess-table fires here.' Miss Janet dismissed
the scruple lightly. ' For my part,
I think wine is all the better after it has

ta'en with the decanter ; though it had little
chance to do that when it o-aed like ditchwater
in the loose. The tappet-hen was
not supposed to stand still, ony mair than
the shelty,' referring to the merry titles for
the old jugs which travelled unceasingly
round hospitable Scotch tables, with wine,
spirits, or punch.

1 Wha were a' at Semple Barns V asked
Miss Mackinnon, who had been conning
her slate.

4 Only the family, with the addition of
Miss Drysdale of Drysdale Hall. 5

And what's she like V

Upon my word, auntie, that is a posing
question,' he answered with a laugh. ' It
is not always easy to describe a young lady ;
and when one has to write the description
on a slate, which all who run may read,
the task is still more ticklish. But here
goes,' and he wrote in one of the scrawling
hands of the nineteenth century, which he
was sufficiently good-natured to struggle to
render legible :

Miss Drysdale is a very handsome girl,
with quite good manners, only a little
brusque or haughty  I am not sure which.
They say she will have a large fortune.'

Miss Janet and Miss Bethia, even Miss
Mackinnon, screwed up their faces and
looked at each other. One fortune had
come already from Drysdale Haugh to the
Mackinnons. Why not a second ? True,
the first had not brought great luck, but
that miofht be because it was not big
enough, or because poor Maggie Craig had
not all the advantages ascribed to Miss
Drysdale.

For a wonder, the Lieutenant chanced to
notice and interpret the exchange of glances,
and made an effort to put his foot on the
folly at once. He was so annoyed at the
necessity that he grew red while he said,
with assumed carelessness : ' She is a great
deal at Semple Barns. The Semples may
have an eye on her for Semple, but I don't
think it will ever come to a match. He's

not a bad fellow, but it is a poor baronetcy ;
and what with her looks and her tin, I
should sav she would look higher

I Set her up !' Miss Janet employed
her favourite adjuration. ' Tarn Drysdale's
doctor, and her mother ane o' the Mercers
that had a rachel [small farm] and a
meal-mill some gate near Parties. But it
makes me sick, laddie, to hear tell of Drysdale
Haugh and Drysdale Ha', as I've been
tell Tam Drysdale has nick-named the
auld farmhouse. I kenned the place well
enough before you were born ; and it seems
aye as if it should all be yours in right of
your mither, whatever power she gave your
father to dispose of her property.'

I I wish it were,' he said, smothering a
yawn ; ' but, as you are aware, if wishes
were horses beggars would ride ; and since
the place was sold before I was born, I am
afraid I have not the shadow of a title to
complain.'

It is very queer and hard though to us,

who can look back and mind your father
and mother's marriage in this very looses
said Miss Bethia, echoing her sister's sentiments,
' after all the speak that was made
about her land and the works that Tarn
Drysdale's coining money out of

1 And every care was taken said Miss
Janet, condescending to offer solemn assurance
of her share in the precautions. ' I
mind, as if it were yesterday, giving Kate
Carstairs her congo in the drawing-room,
in order to see to the signing of the contract
in this room'  looking round, as if the few
sticks of furniture which were left would
find a voice, and testify to the watchfulness
employed in vain.

There was no rapping diablerie heard
from the old mahogany, neither did any
subtle instinct tell Miss Janet that, in the
language of children when they approach
a hidden secret, she was ' as hot as fire' at
that moment.

Did your father never speak of his marriage

contract V she inquired in perfect unconsciousness,
getting, if possible, hotter

still.

'No,' answered Eneas, little impatiently ;
how should he ? You forget he died when
I was little more than an infant.'

I wonder what became oV reflected
Miss Janet. ' Dauvit Milne wound up the
auld Milnes' business, so that there was
little gudewill o't to sell ; and the lad
Dalgleish gazed aff to the ends of the earth
after that silly thing, Tina Carstairs, had
drawn up with him. It's all very well for
her Auntie Kate to call him a judge, and
say they're riding in their carriage out
yonder. There's nobody to contradict her.
But I'm thinking, Eneas, your father got
the contract into his ain hands.'

1 1 dare say he did,' said Eneas indifferently.
' The man of business would see
it was all right ; and if it had been of the
least consequence, we should have heard
more of it.'

1 I'll hae a look among the family papers,'
said Miss Janet. She had hardly a moral
doubt after all, that, though she might
have forgotten the circumstance, the document
must have been committed to her
keeping.

Do you know, auntie, I never was at
Drysdale Haugh.' The Lieutenant made a
little change in the subject. ' I have only
seen it  the house, I mean, which looks a
jolly place from a distance.'

'To think it was your mother's property
!' exclaimed Miss Bethia, with another
groan, letting the hands, with the
knitting she had already taken up, drop
in her lap.

'But it is only fair to remember said
Eneas, with that exasperating manly element
of justice which so often acts like a
cold douche on women's emotions, ' that, as
I have heard you say, my mother, or rather
my grandmother, was no blood relation to
the old owner of the farm ; it was by favour

vol. 1. 16

he left it to her, and she must have been
considered an interloper by the man's
relations. It will only seem to them
righteous retribution that lands and works
are lost to her descendants, and restored
to his.'

'Nonsense, Eneas!' said Miss Janet tartly.
Auld Drysdale brocht your grandmother
up, and came bound to leave her his gear ;
forbye, he had no near relation. This Tarn
Drysdale is only the son of a cousin, a ragamuffin
that the auld man would never
have seen in his road.'

Well, it is clear that I should never
have made a dyer and calico-printer like
this Drysdale,' persisted Eneas. ' Sir James
Semple says he is a remarkable man, and
has not his superior among the Glasgow
magistrates. The son is good form, and a
bit of a scholar, and, strange to say, of a
Radical. I have told you what the eldest
daughter is like. Will you be horrified to
hear me say that I am going with Dick

Semple to call on the Drysdales one of
these days ? I have a little curiosity to
see what might have been mine.'

1 The curiosity is very natural,' said Miss
Janet, speaking most tolerantly, l but I'm
not sure whether proper pride might not
have slipped in and forbidden you to set a
foot within that door, if you had not been
an officier, upsides with the best in the
land, fit to ca' the king your brother. Horrified
! No, Lieutenant, by no manner of
means declared Miss Janet, smoothing
down her ruffled plumes, and yielding to
mercenary motives. ' Gang the very first
opportunity  you have our full consent 
and bring us word of all the new-fangled
doings

1 We do not ken a single body that can
tell us,' put in Miss Bethia, ' except
Thole Murray, Dr. Peter's doctor, and
she beats about the buss as gin we would
be hurt by the purse-proud grandeur,' forgetting
that she had no objection to avail

162

herself once more of the source of that
grandeur on her kinsman's behoof.

Eneas was smiling his languid smile
behind his reddish-brown beard. He had
not meant to ask his aunts' consent to pay
a morning call. Neither had he the
smallest intention of becoming a reporter
of the magnificence of the fortunate dyer
and calico-printer, thus nourishing idiotic
fancies, or calling forth fresh jeremiads on
his loss of what had never been his, and
perhaps ought not to have been his mothers.

Still the young man did his best to
render himself agreeable to the women
who had brought him up, each of whom
held him as the apple of her eye. He was
too well intentioned not to feel a certain
remorse because he was not able to do
more for them  were it only to entertain
a warmer feeling where they were concerned.
He meant to please Miss Bethia
when he told her that he had been speaking
to Lady Semple, who was fond of Scotch

music, of the reels that seemed to be his
aunts private property. He wished her to
play one, of which he whistled a bar, to
see if he were right in the idea he had
given Lady Semple of the tune.

But Miss Bethia did not offer to move,
and looked put out, until Miss Janet came
to her aid, and informed him that the piano
was in need of tuning.

Why, it was out of tune the last time
I was here  you should not let it stand in
that state, or has it got too bad to be put
in order V

That's just it,' said Miss Bethia, with a
peculiar tone in her voice. ' That's the way
o't. The instrument is growing auld 
like its mistress. It is the worse of the
wear, and so is my music. I'm feared I've
had no time for practising of late, and the
noise sashes Meye  no that she hears it 
that's just the vexation,' she hastened to
add, to hide the stumble she had made ;
1 she cannot bide to see my hands moving,

and no a sound to catch her ear. Na,
Lieutenant, you maun tak' to new pines
and new players.'

He had never heard Miss Bethia hint at
growing old before, or fail to receive any
compliment to her playing as if it were not
less than its due. Her manner gave him
a small shock. ' I wonder what it all
means V he puzzled himself to make out,
as he descended the stair and passed out
into the square.

THE PEOPLE'S HOLIDAY.

Since a charter was granted by William
the Lyon to enable the inhabitants of
Glasgow to hold an annual fair within its
bounds, Glasgow Fair has been the great
gala of the year to the hordes of craftsmen,
factory hands, small traders, wharf
and quay men, hewers of wood and drawers
of water of every description, with their
entire families  from the baby in arms to
the big unruly hobbledehoy. Riotous
merrymaking is the realization, to a multitude
of toilers, of temporary relief from
work, and meetings with present cronies
and old friends.

Two or three days' unshackled pursuit of

pleasure  more or less hilarious  derives a
further spice of excitement from the fact
that the fun, as it becomes fast and furious,
is in imminent danger of degenerating into
folly or worse, that many an aching head
and sore heart, some broken bones, incarceration
in a city gaol, and an opportunity
of returning to the world a sadder and a
wiser man, are not infrequent results of the
saturnalia.

It matters little to the mass of the
revellers that the conditions of the cit r
fair have undergone a great change since
its institution ; that the staple articles of
trade in which the fair originated  the
horn, corn, wool, and yarn,' long the
standing toast at every feast in the district
 have merged into a great horse and
cattle market, in which servants are still
armed,' with the site removed to a different
quarter of the city. The Green is
given up for the occasion to shooting and
drinking booths, sweetie-stands, gorgeously

sainted shows and caravans, swings and
merry-grounds, to the proprietors of
which enjoyment is combined with profit.
Strangers, country people from the Highlands
and the Lowlands, roam about, still
more entranced than the natives. The
children are in Paradise. Bagpipes squeal,
fiddles scrape, drums beat ' Sarum, harum,
bare.' The hum of the sing-song speech,
the gleeful roar when a crowd laughs, the
shouting of the more than half-fou merrymakers,
rise above the music, and are
borne many a mile away, refined by distance,
till they echo with almost a plaintive
sound among the rigging of outward-bound
ships ' down Clyde.'

Perhaps the two chief marks of altered
fashions which separate the modern from
the ancient Glasgow Fairs are to be found
in the following signs of the times. There
is an almost entire withdrawal of the upper
classes from taking any share in the gala,
except when evening has fallen and thrown

a veil over the scene. Then, under the
slight obscurity of a summer night, some
of the young choice or choice spirits
among the Glasgow princes condescend
to form parties, and stroll in bands
over the ground for the gratification of
elbowing their way among their inferiors,
cracking jokes right and left, interviewing
the giants and the fat girls, or imagining
themselves the heroes of not very heroic
adventures. Not a conventional gentleman,
not a single woman who makes any
pretension to being a lady, appears where
their grandfathers and grandmothers mixed
freely with the multitude, relished the
whole spectacle heartily, and claimed their
due in the people's holiday.

Another conspicuous innovation is that,
though the numbers of the sight-seers
and pleasure-seekers are kept up on the
Green, they are always drawn from lower
sources, and an Irish flavour like that of
Donnybrook is increasing among the elements

of the composition. Expeditions
and excursions have become the order of
the day with the better-class working-people
as well as with their employers.
The wandering spirit that possesses the
men and women of the nineteenth century
has reached the Glasgow mechanics. They
judge wisely enough that if the weather is
favourable, at the height of the season,
two things are preferable even to the
delights of the Green.

The one is a cheap sail, lasting for several
hours, which will carry the passengers in
the steamboats far beyond the hazy smoke-tainted
atmosphere, where the air blows
caller off the salt water, up among the
numerous lochs, shadowed by the mountains,
that fringe the Western coast. The
other is a run by railway to the Campsie
or the Farnese Hills, or down into Bobbin
Burns's country  green Ayrshire  with
wild roses to be pulled from the hedges
and horse-gowans by the wayside, and the

~j

first bare-bells are to be seen nodding on
Castle Downs where fairies dance, and
the earliest poppies bursting open in the
fields by Kirk Allow. The women and
children agree with the husbands, fathers,
and sweethearts. So the summer navy of
steamboats starting from the Broomielaw
is doubled and quadrupled. At the railway
stations stout guards, bareheaded,
without their coats, struggle manfully, no
longer red but white in the face, to hold
back the invading host, check their tickets,
and send them without accident to their
destination.

Whaup are ye for V cries the herculean
protector of the public, clutching by the
breast an old man far upwards of seventy,
as he stumbles on alone to the platform.
For the tr-rain/ answers the piping voice,
while the lacklustre eyes gaze wildly in
the face of the sturdy, kind inquisitor, as
their owner makes the self-evident declaration.


The giant thus delayed in his office, with
the thronging thousands pressing upon him,
shows marvellous patience.

1 Whatna train, Gruffer V he cross-questions
the innocent offender, while the
speaker seizes the chance to pass his
black hand over his steaming brows.

i Fist the tr-rain for my gude-doctor's
[daughter-in-law's],' reiterates the aged
traveller a little peevishly at being thus
interrupted and kept in the van of the
swaying force that have borne him forward
on their advancing wave.

Weel, ye maun stand aside by me
till ye mind whaup your gude-doctor
lives. Whaup are you for, mem ? Hae
you a ticket, laddie V and so on, with the
ceaseless interrogations to the troops
marching without orders, and not knowing
whither they are to turn  north, southeast,
or west.

In one of the steamers that paddled
swiftly down the broad stream, with its

decks so covered with passengers that they
seemed to occupy every seat that could
furnish a resting-place, and to gather in
clusters and knots like so many bees, one
man looked all alone, and as if he rather
drew back out of sight, standing with his
hands in his pockets in the shadow of the
funnel. His attitude and air were unlike
the jovial bearing of the rest of the
voyagers, which might well be, since the
intruder in the ranks was young Tarn
Drysdale, with a sneaking inclination to
see for himself what the people's holiday
was like. There was indignant bitterness
in his heart that they were left to take it
all alone, and a regretful remembrance of
holidays he had seen abroad  for young
Glasgow with a full purse is generally
tolerably familiar with the continent and
America, though Asia and Africa may
hardly yet have entered into his calculations.
Tarn could recall many a village
and even great town, beyond the German

Ocean, where princes  not merchant princes
merely, but men of royal blood, fit to mate
with kings and queens, with their princesses,
noblemen and noblewomen not a
few  had not scorned to grace the proceedings,
as if they were still those of the Middle
Ages. The whole company had joined
fearlessly in the games, as if the princes
belonged to the people and the people to
the princes, and had yet one heart between
them to be gay or sorry in unison. In this
light it did not seem to matter so much
as people supposed that these foreign
peasants were further back in the knowledge
of many things, had a smaller number
of comforts, were forced to be more
frugal in their ways, while they had infinitely
fewer chances of rising in the
world.

At the same time, young Tarn lingered
on the least popular side of the funnel,
and could not tell for his life how he was
to fraternize with any of the groups around

him. His father could have clone it far
sooner. Auld Tarn still held the ' open
sesame though he did not choose to use it.
He understood these men and women, by
old fellow-feeling and genuine sympathy, a
world better than the son with his dreams
fathomed their wants and wishes. Even
young Tarn's mother and his sister Eppie
could have made friends much more readily
than he could. Those two would have
done it in right of their abounding, sweet,
guileless womanhood, in which he had no
part.

Still, the incapacity he felt galled the
young man as with the sense of an injustice
done to him, an artificial barrier
foisted upon him, and erected between him
and those whom he sought to call his
friends. He could not tell exactly what
separated him from the humanity around
him. It was not lack of goodwill on his
part. It was not dress  that frequently
potent agent in rearing or levelling dead

walls between a man and his neighbour.
Tam had thought of that beforehand. He
had made an elaborate study of the
fact that the better-paid, better-conducted
operatives and small shopkeepers  the
very people who took their wives and
children for excursions on the Fair-days -
resigned their moleskins for the occasion,
and disported themselves in more or less
ill-fitting broadcloth, with a lavish display
of white shirt, silver chains across their
vests, and tall hats. Tam had accommodated
himself to the prevailing standard. He
had exchanged his shooting-jacket for the
only black frock-coat he possessed, and replaced
his wide awake by a chimney-pot hat.

But the general similarity in dress did
little or nothing. He was eyed askance,
good-looking fellow though he was, not
merely by the men he came across, but by
all the nicer, more discriminating women,
in freshly washed and got up calicoes, or in
sober woollen gowns, or in wonderful silks,

vol. 1. 17

and hats in which white feathers were the
prevailing fashion, or bonnets lavishly
crowned with flowers. The wearers of
these garments dandled babies, strove to
keep small children pinned to their sides,
or flirted modestly or violently, according
to taste, each with the ' young chap ' who
happened at that time to be in the ascendant
in her circle of admirer. But all
agreed in giving the cold shoulder, to begin
with at least, to the young man who
had the air of a gentleman, the wolf in
sheep's clothing whom father might not
like, whom Alice or Angus or Jack would
almost certainly disapprove of. Even the
undisciplined children running' all over the
deck, getting into everybody's way, and
never out of scrapes, fought shy of Tarn.
Unlike his father, again, he had no manner
for children. Was it his education, or his
self-consciousness, or his very anxiety to
bridge the social gulf between them, that
kept him aloof from his kind ?

In the meantime the steamer  another
iona, fluttering with flags from stem to
stern  was pushing down the river on the
sunny yet showery summer day, preceded
and followed by many similar vessels,
through the labyrinth of shipping from
every part of the world  past wharfs and
warehouses deserted by toilers  past the
yards, well known to the shipbuilders, with
skeleton ships on the stocks, where the
sheds were forsaken and the din mute.
Down and down the living freight went,
till green pastures and ripening cornfields
began to smile under the very frown of
the hills rising in the distance.

Here was the heart-shaped rock of
Dumbarton, with the castle where Wallace
had lain a prisoner. There were the
crowded roofs of Greenock, clustered
under its own storm-cloud, hanging over
the city churchyard, where Highland
Mary was laid to rest. Yonder ran the
Tail of the Bank, by which fleets have

172

ridden at anchor, where Colin's solitary
ship was seen through the morning mihi
by the sharp eyes of the loving gudewife,
so fain to tell that her man was ' come to
town.' This was the entrance to the loch
by whose shore the race of Callum More
slept sound 1}'. Across the river the warning
white finger of the Cloth Lighthouse
bade belated crafts beware. Roseneath
was fair as when Jeannie Deans landed
under the guardianship of the Duke's
man. At Toward Point the tenderest of
Highland tragedies lingered with the
memory of the old clan Lamont. At last
the twin islands of Bute and Arran came
full in sight, and Goatfell rose brown and
grey and russet  not purple as yet  unrivalled
from the sea, and held up a rugged
face to the fleecy clouds.

The steamer was bound for Rothesay
Bay to discharge its load of humanity, intime
to rush back again and bring down a
fresh cargo before night fell. The company

had enjoyed in their own way their dearly-loved
f water with which, from youth to
age, as a rule, their holiday moments were
associated. As children they had dabbled
in the shallows, as boys and girls they had
rowed and fished for J bodies ' and ' golden
haddocks ;' at all ages the passengers
had sailed, first with their fathers and
mothers, next with their mates and sweethearts,
and at last with their children, in
turn.

But the voyagers bestowed only a
general attention on the objects of the
shore. The eyes which looked were well
-acquainted with each landmark, and, as a
rule, they were not such eyes as to take in
every tint and tone, every glint of light
and bar of shadow, by which Nature, in
her sameness, is ever new and ever fresh.
The gazers liked to hail each peculiar
feature. Yes, this was Helensburgh ; and
that was Gourock ; and yonder was Dunoon
with its Convalescent Home, from which

some of them had profited ; and farther
down was Innellan, and the steamer was
passing the mouth of Loch Striven. But
everything was greeted in an easy, off-hand
manner, that did not disturb the ' turns '
up and down, where there was room to
turn ; the cracks and smokes of cronies,
leaning over the side of the vessel, and
idly watching its track in the water ; the
resounding jokes, that seemed to take in
hundreds of grinning participants in the
effects of the jokers' wit. The superannuated
fiddler near the gangway never
wanted large audiences, who turned their
shoulders on the scenery, and gave themselves
up to the inexhaustible fascination
of 'Jessie the Flower o' Dumblane' and
1 The Carse o' Gowrie.' It was too early
to make the musician's powers available
for regular dancing, even if there had been
space for the exercise, so that there were
only fitful attempts at solitary exhibitions
of the 'Highland Fling,' or such individual

capers as could be performed on the
minimum of boards.

Additional refreshments and stimulants
to those of the air and the water soon
began to be in request. Not only were
baskets and bags opened before the time,
and bottles of various dimensions extracted
and handed round, while unpropitious
women were hospitably pressed ' to taste
and children's mouths stuffed with cookies
and gingerbread, but visits were paid with
ever-increasing regularity to the lower regions
of the vessel, and returns accomplished
each time after longer tarrying and
with greater reluctance. The faces of the
visitors waxed always a finer, deeper
crimson, or a more sodden yellow or white.
Eyes became fishier and more inclined to
roll. Wagging tongues moved with more
difficulty in the mouths which could not
hold them. The enemy that is equally
alluring to impressionable and to stoical
natures, which lends zest to the moments,

and ends by stealing away the brains, was
on board and at work, though it was not
yet noon, answering to the third hour of
the day in Eastern countries. These clean,
well-to-do work people, who had not spirit
enough to enjoy themselves without having
recourse to other spirits, which leapt at a
bound from servants to masters, would soon
be neither agreeable nor altogether safe
company.

Tarn looked around discontentedly, and
felt that he had no right to interfere, anymore
than with gentlemen in their cups,
though some of his father's dyers hung
their heads a little, or glared defiance at
him, as at a spy, when he nodded a greeting
to them in their slinking past him to
descend the cabin stairs. The very women
looked less respectable than at starting.
Many were flushed with anxiety or tortured
with apprehension, or they had grown
hardened and callous. The last began to
gossip loudly and indifferently, to complain,

to scold, to importune. They resorted to
washing their dirty linen in public, to
counting over audibly the cares and crosses
in their drudging, slaving lots. Some of
them took to asking whether, if there were
oblivion and exhilaration going, they should
not have their share as well as the men,
who were their own masters and the
stronger vessels ; one or two women descended
into the shadier recesses of the
steamer, and came back smacking their lips,
laughing uproariously, snatching up their
babies, cuffing their elder children, bandying
coarse taunts and coarser jests with
whoever were like-minded, causing young
Tarn to turn away in dread of attracting
their attention, sick with disgust and shame.
The bloom of the holidays was brushed off
ere they had well begun to a section of the
holiday-makers.

Tarn had to tell himself over and over
again that it was the scum of all mixtures
which rose to the top ; the mass of the

pleasure-party were sober as yet, and he
hoped that a considerable portion of them
would continue sober to the end. But not
one of them wanted him, or owned any
sympathy with him. He was as solitary
as among the rich and luxuriously living-traders,
to whose ranks his father had
risen, whom the son had been tempted to
despise. If anybody spoke to him or
showed signs of accepting his overtures to
conversation, it was sure to be a forward,
senseless, objectionable person, whom he
had to cut short. The more reasonable
and superior a man or woman was, the
more he or she seemed to be endowed with
a proud shyness, a modest reserve, a jealous
esprit de corps as to the interference of a
stranger in joys and sorrows with which
he could have nothing to do.

The interloper heard fragments of talk
of long and short hours, high and low
wages, volunteer corps and volunteer balls,
night - classes, Sunday-schools, friendly

societies, half holidays when the brambles
were ripe, feats of curling and skating in
the dead of winter. But nobody that he
cared to listen to desired to listen to him
or to exchange experiences with him. He
would have liked to tell some dyers who
were grouped together speaking of their
craft  his father's trade, for anything that
he knew yet his own in the future  all
that Dr. Peter had recounted to him of
what he had heard when he was young of
Papillon, ' the butterfly Frenchman who
had brought the art of dyeing everything
save tartan to the banks of the Clyde, and
of Mackintosh, the stout Scot, who, among
other services to his native town, after he
had started the trade in ' cumber,' had the
wit to see how much further ' Turkey red *
went, and worked under the direction of
the stranger till he made the production of
Turkey-red one of the arts of Glasgow, as
purple was of Tyre.

But though young Tarn had come

primed with such curious tales, lie could
not intrude these where there was no sign
that either they or their teller would be
welcome. His tongue was tied.

In the outer cold in which he stood,
young Tarn's heart warmed when he came
suddenly on a broad, smiling, familiar face,
the owner of which saluted him at once
frankly and respectfully. He was an alien
in every respect  in his attire, in his
speech, in his occupation. He was big,
good-natured, blustering Sandy Macnab,
the head dog-man at Semple Barns, in
kilt, plaid, sporran, and brogues, who, to
please himself, was taking an airing and a
sail with the 'Glasgy bodies' in the general
holiday of the Fair. Young Tarn did not
affect Semple Barns so much as the rest of
the family affected their next neighbours.
Still, he was there occasionally, and Sandy
knew him quite well as the son of Mr.
Drysdale, Sir James's ally. Was Tarn to
hobnob with Sandy, a gentleman's servant

 one of those hangers-on from feudal
times in virtue of artificial needs, to whom
Tarn, with his radical notions, had objected
most strongly ? A comical sense of the
absurdity of the situation struck Tarn.
Still, he could not resist exchanging 1 a word
with the dog-man, who was full of Celtic
vivacity, did not dream of being anything
save accessible, while he was too well
accustomed to the society of his superiors
in rank to take advantage of the circumstances.
At present Sandy was perfectly
sober.

'How are Sir James and Lady Simple?'
inquired Tarn, as an introduction to the
conversation.

Sir James and my teddy are well, sir.
They went south a week syne, to be out of
the way of the Fair. For, as you know,
a' Glasgy gangs pouring out of the city in
every direction, and neither the road, nor
the rail, nor the river is for the gentry at
sic times. Sir Jeames is getting less active

than he used to be in pushing his way
through, and my teddy does not like to be
tied down to bide at hame for twa or three
days, so they have taken flight beforehand.'


Tarn smiled a faint smile.
1 And is this excursion in your line V
1 Weel, a sail on the water and a snuff of
the hill air are aye in my line,' said Sandy
cordially, 'though I confess I w 7 ould rather
it had been a " robin' boat," and the hills
had been nearer ; but a man maun be
thankful for sma' mercies. How r ever, my
main errand here was to see w T hat a day -
change would do for a countryman I have
on my hands. He was not a' these, to
begin with ; and, 'deed, I think there
must have been a want about mysei' to tak'
sic a handful upon me, with no call save
that w 7 e were faith acquaint with the peat-reek
and the scent of the gale [bog myrtle].
It was a' that flee chin' [flattering] sorry
Bawby Sed's doing,' continued Sandy, in

regretful deprecation of his own weakness.
* She buttered me up about what I had
come to, and the service I could render to
the man. I wish I had tried the Gaelic
Society first.'

1 Who is he, and what is wrong with
him V asked Tain, not deeply interested,
but glad to be on sociable terms with one
of his companions.

1 Will your honour come and see V suggested
Sandy, using one of the old-world
phrases that still lingered in his part of the
country, not dreaming that it could be
anything save acceptable to his companion,
who, according to his theories, ought to
have preferred to be addressed as ' Young
Tarn.' ' The infection is all gone, for, if
you'll believe me, the crater brocht the
silver tramping south with him. He had
no sooner been lodged with the duos than
he was laid on his back goblin' and ram-pain',
clean out of his wits  of which he
had never a great stock, in the licht of the

disease, far war than any yappin' and
scraping' o' the bit beasts. In place of being
a help to me he was an awful' plague. If
I had not first fallen on my feet wi' a gude
maister and mistress, I might have gotten
into grief wi' them for bringing sickness
about the place. But Sir Jeames and my
teddy were very considerate and kind.
They had in Dr. Murray, and he fetched a
nurse from the infirmary, since the sick
man was over bad to be removed, and we
a feasted on denies from the big loose.
The sinner who had caused the trouble
pud through, and noo he's convalescent.
But he's as wake as water, and he hanna
rotten his mind  what there was o't 
right back. I thocht it might divert him,
and the doctor said there was nae harm, to
tak' him for a sail. It was the least thing
Bawby Sed could do to look after him.
Moreover, she's aye ready for the road ;
so if you please, sir, they're sitting on the
sheltered side of the vessel, and if you've

ony skill in complaints, you'll maybe step
over and gie's your opinion.'

Tarn had no skill, but he had also no
shrinking from the sight of disease, while
his refusal might sound, to Sandy, like a
cowardly shunning of danger, which the
man himself had apparently faced with intrepidity.


The young man began to thread his way
with the burly Highlander across the
crowded deck. In the middle of the process
Tarn was surprised by the statement
from Sandy : * I did not think of it when
you spoke to me first, Maister Drysdale,
but I've just called to mind that Tory 
that's the object's name  has some notion
in his licht head, with which the gentleman
your father has to do.'

I do not think my father has ever
had much to do with Highlanders out of
Glasgow said Tarn incredulously. ' He
has been in the Highlands, of course, but
he has led too busy a life in Glasgow and

vol. 1. 18

at Drysdale Haugh to have had time to
make many acquaintances elsewhere.'
Very like, sir ; only the first time I saw

the felly he was speer' at Bawby S<
about Drysdale Haugh. He coupled it
with the Mackinnons that were there
before your time, but he allowed there was
a Drysdale in the matter. One of his
reasons for takin' the place of dug-laddie
at Semple Barns, and coming out with me,
was that we were cheek by jowl wi* Drysdale
Haugh. All through his illness he
hammered [murmured] about Drysdales
and Mackinnons and the gentleman that
cam' to the island for the shooting, and
the charge he left with ane Moras of the
Bother. If Body has not been aff his head
from first to last, it was mast unfortunate
that he did not get word of Captain ,
the young maister's friend', while he
was staying out at our place for a couple
of weeks. A meeting might have let the
cat foot of the poke [h&g~]  always supposing

there is a cat in the poke, and it is not a
craze altogether  with which it would bea
thousand pities to fash ony gentleman.
But then, Tory was at the licht of the
silver, not fit to be spoken wi 'Deed he's
not fit yet, when it conies to that  but
yonder he is, tied to Bawby Sed's apron-string.'


Poor Tory of the Shelties had never been
touch to look at, but now, with the ghastliness
of his late illness still blanching his
freckled skin, and pinching his long chin,
with his short tartan coat hanging loose on
his shoulder-blades as if they were two
pegs, so that he had double need of the
plaid in which he was wrapped, he looked
a miserable wreck. Mind as well as body
seemed gone, as he sat sunk in his corner,
and kept feebly tapping the lid of a snuff-mull
which somebody had put into his hand.

Mrs. Seth sprang up the moment she
caught a glimpse of Sandy's waving tartan.
1 Tak' a turn wi' him yersel', Sandy Macnab/

182

she enjoined her friend, 'while I rax [stretch]
my banes and see if there's anybody I ken
on board. He's drench [dull] company,
I'm not sure the braw sail is worth it. For
you, Sandy, you're like a recruiting sergeant
in the aulcl Forty Twa.' With this
propitiatory compliment Mrs. Seth hastily
withdrew, lest her purpose should be anticipated.


1 Hoo are ye noo, Tory ?' his patron
Sandy addressed the sick man, in the condescending
coaxing accents with which he
might have spoken to a child. ' Diana ye
find the wind and the water refreshing ?'

They mak' me dizzy,' said Tory peevishly.


1 Oo ! that will wear off,' said Sandy
confidently, ' and you'll be as strong as a
pony in no time. Wha do }ou think
I've brocht to see you ? Young Maister
Drysdale, of Drysdale Hall and Drysdale
Haugh,' speaking with elaborate distinctness.
' Div ye hear, Tory V

I'm no deaf, I have the hearing,' said
the invalid, still as ' fractious as a child
but raising himself slightly while he spoke,
and fumbling: with his claw-like hand on
the seat near him, a gleam of cunning purpose
coming into his lacklustre eyes. i It
is Mackinnon of Drysdale Haugb/ he muttered.


'There he is at his havers [nonsense]
again,' protested Sandy unceremoniously.

I'm afraid my father is all there is to
stand for the owner of Drysdale Haugh
said young Tarn. ' Have you any claim
on the place ? Had you anything to do
with the Mackinnons ? When you are
better, if you will come to my father he
will see to it.'

But Tory was not listening to the assurance
; he was occupied with another
source of excitement. His hands were
groping convulsively around him. ' What
have you done with my bowie, Sandy Mac-nab
V he asked, quivering with passion and

distress. ' It is my kistic I want, and if
you've steal it, I'll have you up before the
first justice I can find.'

The impudence and ingratitude of the
wretch !' exclaimed Sandy, not discomposing
himself, though the scene began to attract
attention, to Tarn's annoyance. ' To think
that I would touch his dirty papers !' betraying
by the very terms of the protest
that his curiosity had got the better of
him.

Then as Tory's rage subsided into a
weak wail, while the lamentable figure
rocked backwards and forwards as if it had
been that of a woman, compassion replaced
wrath in the easy, genial nature of the
dog-man. ' Losh, man, your bit bowie's
safe in the press in your room ! Would
you gang lugging an auld soldier's kit with
you when you're taking a pleasure-sail for
your health in the company of friends ?
You're to have everything you want at
my expense  that is, at Sir Jeames's.

Here, drink a grapple from my flask to put
heart into you, and set your mind at rest
about your bowie.'

Tory made no objection to swallowing
the whisky, nor stopped to ascertain
whether it was administered by a traitor
or a true man, an arrant thief or the most
honest of his kind. The draught was
potent in his present state ; in a few
moments he was fast asleep, and likely to
remain so for some time, while his outraged
keeper called anew for the services
of the truant ' Bawby Sed,' to * hap
[wrap] up' her patient, and keep him in
her eye, lest he should ' loup over the side
of the steamer and become suche for fishes '
in the storm he was making about his
bowie, though it was as like as not that he
would forget all about it when he awoke.
It is his bodily weakness that mak's him
doubly wake in his mind Sandy explained
to all interested. ' The doctor says when
he gets strong again he may be all the man

he ever was, which is not .saving' muckle.
I fuss I had never meddled vi' the wull-cat.'


Out ! twa Jock Hielantmen should
match ane another,' jeered a listener.

I would like to ken wha you're calling
Jock Hielantmen ? You'll better mind
your manners,' Sandy suddenly fired up,
and spluttered haughtily.

Young Tarn strolled away, not much exhilarated
by the incident, and not troubling
to puzzle out the wandering fancy  to
which he attached no importance  of a
half-witted Highland beggar, as Tory appeared
to him.

The steamboat reached the pier in
Rothesay Bay, and its company streamed
out pell-mell, without spending more thana
glance on the semicircle of mountains
that closed in a lovely scene. Somehow
the disregard of it jarred upon Tarn,
accompanied as it was by the unvarnished
utterance of the popular impression with

regard to a little island containing a single
house, firmly believed to exist somewhere
in the neighbourhood. ' Ay, it is a funny
place, if ye kenned a', and could get a
glimpse o't,' a man who was looking
earnestly about for the object in question
told a neighbour. 'It's the Drunken
Island, where the rich eddies that forget
theirs's are shipped aff by their men.
But they say the eddies have sealed the
key o' the boathouse, and rowed to the
shore, and gotten what they wanted, in
spite of the doctor and their keepers, afore
now.'

1 Eh ! what a drouth [thirst] they maun
hae had to risk their lives to slacken
[quench] it !' exclaimed a woman in the
vicinity.

Lass,' said a grave companion, ' they
risked and lost mair than their lives afore
they ever came there, God help them !'

The sail was over, and it was who should
get first on shore and make the most of the

land entertainment. A few of the passengers
started for Ascot, with its fascia
hedges, the vitrified fort, or the walk to
Kingarth, that would take the pedestrians
past the fine pleasure-grounds of Mount
Stuart. A considerable number had friends
in the island, and desired to look them up
and claim their hospitality. But the great
proportion of the holiday-makers went no
farther than the seaside and the green
braes, congregating there like ants, occupying
every seat and public walk which
the inhabitants of the place had for the
time forsaken. There were bathing and
wading under difficulties, a great deal of
tolerably reckless boating, homely pick-picking
to an enormous extent, and much
simple lounging and 'lazing,' as well as
abundant horse-play. ' Harriet and Any
represented by Murdoch and Maggie, not
only flirted ' through wind and wet they
exhibited their love by showering saltwater
on each other, and pelting each other

with sea sand. There were frequent
resorts to the nearest ale-houses, which
became in the end choke-full.

Young Tarn, through all the baffling,
disappointed consciousness of a wasted day,
continued doggedly determined to see the
holiday to the end. He would not allow
himself the respite of a visit to a good
hotel and a quiet dinner eaten in welcome
retirement. He strode into one of the
humbler inns, sharing in the hubbub, took
his chance of the knives and forks, and
partook of the pies and ale which were
the most solid refreshment of the fellow
holiday-makers who refused to own him
as a fellow. He loitered wistfully among
them to the last moment, running with the
multitude at the false alarm of a drowned
man who was fished out of the water and
resuscitated before it was too late, and a
lost child that was found sitting chattering
on a policeman's knee. He saw the last of
his umbrella in bestowing it on a young

couple bent on walking out of earshot of
their companions, and being drenched to
the skin in one of the sudden down-pours
of the latitude  the pair never stopping to
thank him for the sacrifice.

Tarn re-embarked manfully with his
steamboat load, cleared out just in time
before the arrival of another consignment
of the same kind, flooding Rothesay at
sundown with a fresh crowd of riotous
strangers, for whom there was neither
sleeping accommodation nor return to
Glasgow that night. If the weather were
fine, they would lie about, like unpicturesque
northern lazzaroni, on door-steps,
under sheds, against hay-stacks, on the bare
hillsides. If the night set in soaking wet
instances had been known of an Icelandic
experience  the churches would be thrown
open to the dripping, shivering troops of
men, women, and children by humane
people in authority, who did not 'find it
inconsistent with their religion to discover

that churches were made for men, and not
men for churches.

In young Tarn's steamer the scum came
more and more to the surface. Silenus
and his crew prevailed over decent working
men and women, who took refuge in
effacing themselves and cautiously withdrawing
into obscurity. The crowded
decks presented an orgie, kept up to a
maddening refrain, given forth by hundreds
of singing, shouting, and swearing men,
bawling women, and crying children. It
seemed next to a miracle that the sailors
could preserve the faintest remnant of
discipline, escape the demoralizing influences
around, and continue to manage the
ship so as to prevent any hideous accident.

The night wind blew cold, even on a
summer evening, the humid climate, which
forms an excuse for the frequent resort to
the hot wine  the barley-bree of the
country  relieved itself by the frequent
discharge of pelting showers. The wistfully

smiling side of the weather was gone,
and only the sulks and tears were left.
The shores of the river grew dark and
disconsolate. The very river  blue, like
the Rhone in some of its more favourable
aspects  was now a muddy grey, suggestive
of much dirt, which the dredging
machines were insufficient to clear away.

Every voyager, except those past feeling,
grew chilly and weary. The women drew
the skirts of their gowns over the wearers'
shoulders and heads to afford them shelter
and to protect finery, of which the feathers
were draggled, and the artificial roses
drooping. The men buttoned up their
coats, turned up the collars, and smoked
heavily. The children experienced the
consequences of a slight swell on the
water and a day's surfeit.

There was a desperate determination to
dance impossible dances, and as much promiscuous
embracing as if men were living
in the days of the great French Revolution,

and vowing eternal liberty, equality,
and fraternity.

At last more than one free fight arose,
in which Tarn, with his broad shoulders,
clear head, and indignant heart, felt bound
to interfere. Like the grand, inspired
legislator  the friend of his people in their
slavery  Tarn, too, would have said,
Wherefore smites thou thy fellow V and
would have received the refusal, with
reason here, to acknowledge him as a
ruler and judge. ' The redder's lick ' was
ready for him, as for his neighbours.
Several men who had broken all bounds
in their drunk frenzy turned upon him 
1 What are you doing here, young Drysdale,
spying ferries [wonders] ? We want
name o' your countenance. Auld Tarn is
worth a mizzen o' you ; but we cinna want
him neither, nowadays. Mind your am
bizness ; it's for nae gude ye're skulking
here in or boat. Is't or lasses you're
seeking' ?  gentlemen like you can try these

tricks  or a handle to haud over our heads
if we get into a scrape, or a sham of teaching
us to behave like gentlemen? But
you're no a generation out o' the dirt
yourself'  for a' your father's braw loose
and your mither's fine carriage. Tak' you
care, young Tarn Drysdale, or we'll gie
you a took [dip] in the water for your
pains.'

Tarn was surrounded and borne away by
some of the sober men in his vicinity.
One of them knew him sufficiently, and
had enough interest in him, to remonstrate :

What made you come with us the day,
sir ? It was a full's errand. It would
have been all very weel if it had been a
maister's treat, in which the maister still
keeps the upper hand. But the Fair-days
are like the daft-days at the New Year,
they are an exception to a others. They
belong mair to the riff-raff than to ony
other portion o' the community. I've halt'
made up my mind to stay at hame and

shut myself' in the loose with the gude-wife
and the weans another year ; leastways,
though Granny at Rothesay be disappointed,
I'll not pine ony o' the shoals
on the water. I question whether Norman
himsel' could have quieted them at sic a
time.'

Then Tarn remembered there was one
ostensible working-day in the year when
even his father did not venture to the
works or the office. For on the 1st of
January (old style) these brethren of
labour  descendants of an old severely
religious people  the Whigs of the West,
having begun the year with their first-footing
and their exchange of bottles on
every side, were ' roaring fou almost to
a man, for the space of twelve hours  the
quietest individual in ordinary circumstances
being often the most madly
hilarious or brutally violent on these
privileged occasions. ' Ca' canny till they
settle down again,' had been auld Tarn's

vol. 1. 10

wary advice. ' Pair chiefs, they have
not sae mony break-roots, and there will be
sir heads and shamed faces among them
the morn.'

THE PLEASURES OF THE RICH.

Auld Tam and Mrs. Drysdale went a
good deal into company like themselves 
rich milliners with whom Tam had large
connection in business, and the heads of
some of the most nourishing trades in
Glasgow, who had become, in one way or
another, acquainted with the wealthy dyer
and calico-printer, and who had often the
common ground with him that they too
had risen from the ranks. There is a spell
in money, as in many potent things, which
draws the possessors into an alliance 
offensive and defensive.

It would be hard to sum up the thousands
represented by Tam Drysdale's 



acquaintances. Though he had not forgotten
his poorer friends, and did them many a
Good turn, he had a genuine respect for
money, or rather for the qualities concerned
in its acquisition. He made
excuses for the rich man no less than for
the poor. ' He's made a grand job o*
that mill, or that pit,' he would say.
They cry he's near-handed, or he's fond
o' the bottle, or he's grown an imperious
dug in his age. But what would you
have ? Think of what he's been and
dune ! Money has its temptations. Them
that have spared in their youth may be
led into stinting still in their riper years,
or they may be beguiled into restlessness,
as it were, to make up for the past.
If men commence to scrape and dgo at
your bicldin', it's no aye easy to refrain
from walking over their neck. More
by token, a man that has made and keepit
riches has as frequently as not shown his
superiority  that he has the brains, the

srneddum [spirit], the self-restraint, and
the energy that render men fit to rule.'
Tarn put a prosperous mans high value
on prosperity, while with his feeling for
adversity there mingled, in spite of his
kindness of heart, a shade of impatient
scorn.

Mrs. Drysdale had also her estimate of
her friends  those richly clad, frequently
overgrown as well as over weighted women,
who for the most part formed her circle,
affected by the texture of their satins and
velvets, and the contents of their jewel-boxes.
She did not apply the same test to
Lady Semple, for even Eppie's simple judgment
was quick enough to discern that her
ladyship, who had a habit of wearing
shabby silk gowns without ornament, belonged
to a different class and must be
measured by another rule.

The visiting consisted largely of dinners
-conducted with the greatest formality.
The great points at those dinners were the

costliness of the table equipage and the
expense and unseasonableness, rather than
seasonableness, of the viands. So much
silver glittered on those mercantile tables
that it began to be a drug and little thought
of, as the metal was at Jerusalem in the
days of King Solomon. There was a talk
of silver-gilt, even of a sprinkling of gold
vessels, to create a sensation. The givers
of the feast were still dead to the merits
of rock-crystal, else there would have been
an opening for it. Salmon, the first day
the Act of Parliament permitted the rivers
to be drawn ; lamb when the frost-bitten
grass was still sprinkled with snow, peas
and strawberries, not half-withered importations
from the shores of the Mediterranean,
and yet not brought to maturity
before the month of May by an unaided
Scotch sun ; the earliest oysters, group
and venison.

Tarn and Mrs. Drysdale viewed those
feasts  not necessarily of reason  with the

greatest respect, and dressed in the man
and woman's best to do the entertainments
honour. The husband and wife took their
station as host and hostess in the Drysdale
Hall drawing-room, or drove off as guests
in the Drysdale Hall carriage, with something
like solemnity, as for an imposing
rite. Notwithstanding their laudable endeavours
to grace the scene, neither looked
half so well as in his or her ordinary attire.
There was a specially clownish air about
Tarn in his fine broadcloth and fine linen.
Mrs. Drysdale suffered more than ever
from the disadvantage of being ' braw ' in
her richest velvet and most delicate lace.
It was to little purpose that he wore on
one of his little fingers a sapphire fit to bean
heirloom, or that her bracelet, brooch,
and ear-rings far outshone that broken
diamond necklace, found after a fire among
the ruins of Sheffield House, of which
there is still an old Glasgow tradition.
But the excellent couple were not

singular. Their fellow guests were, to use
a Scotch phrase, 'as fine as they could
ling,' rejoicing in the costliest materials
and the most expensive of tailors and
modistes to furnish the toilette. Dickens
were wagging with a vengeance. The result
was not cheering when the personal
comeliness which distinguished the Drysdales
was wanting. It was positively depressing.
Nobody seemed quite at home
in his or her clothes. They were not as if
they had grown upon the wearers' backs 
which is the perfection of dressing, and the
women had the expression of thinking of
nothing else but their wardrobes and those
of their neighbours displayed for the
general benefit.

Young Tarn and Claribel were only occasionally
present at these dinners. St.
Mungo's city drew a hard and fast line
between the old and the young in these
matters. The visiting of the latter included
the staying for two or three days at

a time at a friend's house where there were
young people like themselves (the seniors
rarely paid a visit which lasted over a night),
balls, public and private, junior clubs, the
theatre, the hunting-field, and all picnics
that were not purely family affairs. But
the solid dinners lay in the province of the
elders, and formed their dissipation.

If an exception was made it was in
young Tarn's favour, for his benefit or loss.
His sex and the probability of his entering
into his father's business entitled him to
greater consideration than any girl, however
handsome or well-dressed or otherwise
mistress of the situation. He was fitter
company for the elderly men, since Young
Glasgow can generally talk business with
as much zest as his father can talk it  nay,
sometimes with a glitter of the eye under
the smooth forehead and hair the hue of
the raven or the squirrel, which hints at an
increase of the gambling spirit in the
population.

As for Claribel, though she knew what
she was about, and could suit Lady Semple,
who found her a most useful and obliging
young friend, Clary had very little to say
on the stock themes of servants and tradespeople
to matrons of her mother's type.
It was to this level that Mrs. Drysdale's
conversation fell in society; though when
she was alone with her daughter Eppie,
she could tell charming tales, idols of old
country and town life, embellished by queer
figures and quaint customs  Egg Jean,
Bell Geordie and Creepy Kate ; Milky
May-day, and Hallowed with its nuts and
apples.

But from the time that Tarn and Mr.
Drysdale started, sitting side by side like a
pair of wedded doves, he with a glove in
one hand and she with her laced pocket-handkerchief
in her lap, talking with bated
breath of the richest and greatest persons
they expected to meet, they were ( upon
their manners she naturally more Subdued

than he, but both considerably impressed.
Solemnly Tarn stepped from the carriage
at their destination and handed Mrs. Drysdale
out under the awning put up to shelter
them from the elements. Arm in arm, in
spite of modern usage, the two were passed
from one officiating domestic to another, in
the line of servants stationed in the hall,
on the staircase, in the corridor, a tolerably 7 "
numerous band, when, according to the way
in St. Mungo's city, Tarn tipped each
servant, crossing every palm with silver ashe
passed its bowing owner.

At last came the stentorian announcement,
' Mr. and Mrs. Drysdale ;' and the
door was flung open to reveal another pair,
generally worthier and as well clad, standing
in the centre of another gorgeous
drawing-room, with a stream of black coats,
gold chains, white ties, velvet and moire,
flashing stones and choice bouquets, circling
or subsiding into a stationary ring round
the central couple.

The dinner itself was a very serious, not
to say ponderous, business, in which each
eater not only dwelt on the merits of soup
and entrees, but appraised the madeira
which had travelled round, the world, and
the home-raised pines. The circumstances
did not admit of much talking, unless in a
word or two to next neighbours. It was
only when the pheasant made its exit, and
the port and the cheese took its place, that
the sense of responsibility was lessened,
and a strain of good-fellowship, always increasing
in joviality, began to prevail.

The tongues of the men commenced to
wag on politics, local interests, and when
two of a trade met, ' shop ' was not absent.
There was no lack of shrewdness, broad
common-sense, and fair intelligence, for
these men  reckoning them from those
who had made the humblest beginnings
had all received a fair parish-school education,
and their acquirements had been enlarged
and rubbed into the best condition

by intercourse with the world, and the
calculations and speculations of trade.
There were college-bred men among them,
and members of the old Glasgow houses
not stranded like that of Mackinnon,
but borne on to this day on the full tide of
prosperity. It was among the last that
the best attributes of the born and bred
diner-out showed themselves in a fund of
appropriate anecdote  not coarse or worse 
and in a peculiar humour not so much
caustic as dry in its ripeness, like the champagne,
sometimes with a dimly perceptible
current of sadness in its mirth, as the best
Scotch wit, unlike English wit or French
wit or American wit, seems always to
play on the wan face of

'The mighty waters sounding evermore.'

The guests who thus contributed to the
entertainment of the company were not
entitled to complain that they were not in
request, or were not the men whom their

hosts and fellow-guests delighted to honour.
Such men need never have sat at their
own tables, and though they were often by
no means the richest men present, their
shadows never grew less, and they kept
their own even in a money-making, money-respecting
community.

Young Tam could not for the life of him
imagine what his father, especially, could
see to like in such feasts. The young man
was at war to the knife with all the luxury
and parade. He hated to find his father
and mother making part of them. They
did and said more things to vex him then
than at any other time, though they were
not worse or nearly so bad as other people
present. Tam and Mrs. Drysdale's knowledge
might be at fault, but their native
modesty and kindly instincts  which forbade
them to render themselves conspicuous
or to offend anybody's prejudices
when the husband and wife were aware of
them  were almost always to be trusted.

If young Tarn had been wiser he might
have let his parents alone, and thought no
more of them, with an easy mind.

Mr. and Mrs. Drysdale were not like the
Nimis, who had begun life with a small
eating-house, and were now wholesale exporters
of provisions to a vast extent ; but
though her apparel matched that of the
best gentlewoman in the room, and she had
a set of rubies without its equal in St.
Mungo's, she could never be allowed to
have any other partner at table than one
of her sons who was familiar with her
little habits, and took the liberty of engrossing
her conversation on the penalties and
thepiz,and that donnert devil of a servant ;
and what for should she not pike her
teeth when a curran' had got into ane of
them ? and she minded when a whole glass'
of toothpick was provided for the
customers at the shop in the close. Her
husband was not so objectionable, but he
was the better of his daughter-in-law at

his elbow. She was a sharp, determined
little woman of better standing, and warned
off the servants with the sherry and the
liqueurs, under his very nose.

No ; young Tarn was a prig and an ass
if he imagined he had any real reason to
blush for the authors of his being. He
was bound rather to be thankful to them
for more than the goodly heritage they
had provided for him, at which he ' cast
faiths even for their manly and womanly
courteous self-mastery. Still he would
have been relieved if his father had not
brought forward his Burgundy, and promised
his host the next time he came to
Drysdale Hall the taste of such a brand as
was not to be found in Hamilton Palace,
and his mother had not called macaroni
1 mikeronis/ and Charlotte a la Russe
1 Chaurlotte-ally-Eice.' He did not care
half so much when she cried out, ' Keep
me, the day !' at the most exciting of Mr.
Rowland's stories, and his father was surprised

into a guffaw that seemed to shake
the table.

Small faults to rankle in a mind that
was not little. It was only sore in a transition
phase, and raw in its youthfulness.

Younof Tarn had not time and attention
to spare for good stories. He felt angry
with himself when he was forced to laugh.
A set of old tomfools, he was tempted to
style his companions. Life was earnest :
he could not afford to waste it in such
child's play. He thought of the gross
revelry of the Fair-days, he recalled the
misery of times of strike and failures in
cotton, and he wondered that men and
women with souls to be saved could thus
trifle with the signs of the times. He
would not have exposed himself to the
purgatory of these dinners, at which he
sat in his goodly young manhood like a
killjoy, had he not known that to refuse all
such invitations would incense his father as
much as anything he had yet done.

vol. 1. 20

>

It was not only by his father and
mother's satisfaction with these pompous

ties that young Tarn felt aggrieved ; he
was still more exasperated with Ath<
Murray's barefaced enjoyment of the ridiculous
proceedings. There was an exception
made for Thole sometimes, as for
young Tarn, in putting her name on the
dinner-lists. Her father was frequently
one of the guests, for two reasons. First,
he was an old and respected native of the
locality ; in the second place, when he was
in the mood, he was one of the most accomplished
story-tellers of the circle, one of
the most learned in the curious records
of the great city of which all her citizens
are proud. His comparative poverty was
thus condoned, and he was welcomed to
rich men's tables, at which he did not
refuse to sit because he was not himself

rich.

Dr. Peter had boasted that he had
friends amoiiff the wealthy as well as the

poor. He did not grudge the former a

farthing of their hundreds of thousands.

He could make as much allowance for their

temptations as one of the men themselves

Tarn Drysdale  could do. It pleased Dr.

Peter to exercise his faculty on their

behalf. They were worthy fellows, many

of them, he maintained, and few knew, ashe

was in circumstances to know, the good

they did, not only by their public works,

but by their private charities. If he could

contribute to their entertainment  they

were not always easy to entertain, as they

were not particularly entertaining in a

mixed company  that was their weak

point ; if he could help them to a right

good laugh, he should always think it a

privilege and a compliment to himself to

play his part.

It was awkward to invite Dr. Murray
to a party which included ladies, and exclude
Thole, his solitary specimen of
womankind. As the mistress of her

202

father's household, she had something of
the brevet rank of a matron ; therefore she
appeared occasionally, like young Tarn, at
the elderly people's dinners. She had no
individual taste for heavy, prolonged meals,
and there was sometimes not another young
person present to keep her in company except
the young Turk from Drysdale Hall.
Thole was at ease and contented in her
home-life, but she did not despise a change.
She thought it good for her father. She
liked to see him among his contemporaries,
and she had a cordial esteem for some of
them, not altogether derived from him.

The girl was an exceedingly simple
figure among the magnificent dames. It
would have been absurd in her to try to
cope with them, or even with the daughters
when there were daughters  of the
houses where the entertainments took
place. For the husbands' or fathers' incomes
far more than outnumbered in thousands
what her father could claim in

hundreds. Thole's silk gown was not as
thick as leather, according to a definition
which she had heard some of the favoured
matrons apply to their silks. It was generally
supplemented by some gauzy material
with which she rang changes. She hoped
her single state and her twenty and odd
years carried off her failure in the virtues
of the Worth School, on which not only
newspaper paragraphs, magazines of fashion,
and novels by benighted female hands, but
novels concocted under male auspices, insist,
with a sort of man-milliner gusto distressing
to realize. If her supposed probation
did not justify what fine ladies
might call her shabbiness  what then ? It
did not signify. Thole laughed at the
idea, and her thin, dark face and brilliant
eyes looked more bizarre and expressive
than ever. A ' shipped, becket, poorly
got-up lassie,' many of the ladies called
her, with disdainful pity. Yet their husbands
were fond of talking to the Cinderella

who had not yet met her fairy godmother.


And, after all, this Cinderella's rags
were no rags, and by no means without
womanly and artistic taste in their disposal ;
only they were not rich and rare like the
approved garments of the day. Thole
knew very well, under her philosophy, what
became her, and used to say that though
she were as rich as Croesus, she did not
think she would adopt costly array. In
addition to the consideration she professed
for her maid Jeannie, to whom Thole was
a law in dress  who, like many handmaidens,
copied her mistress at a humble
distance  Thole was satisfied satin and
velvet and the cunning devices of the most
ingenious and extravagant of dressmakers
did not suit her style as they suited Claribel
Drysdale's outward woman. Thole was
plain, and simplicity did best with plainness.
She did not wish to look like a fantastic
Frenchwoman.

Besides being set apart for each other
when they were the only young people at
these dinners, there were mingled attraction
and repulsion between Thole Murray
and young Tarn Drysdale. She knew that
he was affronted by her levity in relishing
these feasts, and it tickled her that he
should be so affronted. He knew that she
did not believe in his modified Communism,
and looked upon it as a particular kind of
juvenile disease  not so common as the
measles, but occasionally to be seen even in
the sons of rich men. He was aware that
she laughed at him, and he was piqued by
her laughter  piqued to bring her to a
juster frame of mind by proving his sincerity.
When he meditated anything
desperate  resigning his birthright, going
to Australia, turning out to work for his
own hand at any work for which he was
qualified  he always took into account how
Thole Murray would look and what she
would say ; if she would believe in him

then, and if she would be sorry for having
mistaken him.

1 1 hope you are enjoying yourself, Miss
Murray,' said young Tarn frigidly, on one of
these occasions. His tone sounded as if
his hope partook more of the nature of a
fear. He was standing before her, after
the gentlemen had joined the ladies in the
drawing-room. Thole was sitting on a
couch, near a knot of gentlemen who occupied
the hearth rug with cups of tea in
their hands, and a raconteur improving the
moment till the whist-tables should be set
out. A chorus of laughter testified to the
capabilities of success on the part of the
narrator.

Thanks, exceedingly,' answered Thole,
suddenly brightening her whole appearance
by the expansion of a curious little scarlet
fan which she held in her hand. ' But
don't let me miss Mr. Rowland's next story
-  he is in great force to-night.'

'I wonder you can be entertained by
stale Joe Millers.'

But as I am entertained, and as he is
just going to tell a story which always
makes me laugh, though I have heard it a
hundred times, please don't talk just now.
Perhaps it is not so familiar to you ; if so,
you cannot guess what a treat it will be

She stopped, and set herself to listen,
and he was compelled to follow her example.
Mr. Rowland was retailing the strait of a
Highland dancing-master, whose steps
were unassailable, but whose music was
confined to his voice, with which he sang,
to improvised appropriate words, the tunes
of the strathspeys and reels through which
he was assiduously marshalling his pupils.
Mr. Rowland gave examples, humming the
doggerel in alternately slow and fast time,
with his comical cracked voice, in keeping
with the comical jiggy airs :

1 Now, Jock, for sure and certain,
Come middle and come tartan,
You'll dance with Betty Martin,
She's a prides' little queen.'

And you there, White Breeks, White Breeks,
Set you to Red Cheeks, Ked Cheek .
Or you're no worth a preen.'

Mr. Tarn,' said Thole. behind her fan,
have you forsworn laughter ? Have you
taken the pledge in that direction I Oh,
I should not like to be Clary and Eppie !
Now hear my story. There was once a
very great lady listening to the reading of
a very small book. The hapless author 
a misled young woman  mutual friends
supposed, mistakenly of course, might
profit by the great lady's patronage.
Oh !" she said, with a shudder at a certain
point in the tale, " whatever she's
going to do, I hope she's not going to be
funny." '

Youno- Tarn was driven to smile, and at
the unusual sight auld Tarn, whose eyes
were resting on the couple, experienced a
second twine of doubt regarding them.
Young Tarn could not be so depraved in
taste as to be making up to that insignificant,

nearly ugly, lassie of Dr. Peter's,
with all the beauties and all the fortunes
in Glasgow awaiting his choice. The next
moment Dr. Peter Murray walked up to
his daughter and young Tarn. Auld Tarn
took heart of grace, and made a fourth in
the group.

1 By-the-bye, do you know anything of
a Highland tramp who has been down with
fever in the servants' offices at Semple
Barns V young Tam was asking the doctor.
4 1 met him with Macnab, Sir James's dog-man,
in the Rothesay boat, on one of the
Fair-days. The Highlander had come to
Glasgow, as I understood his countryman
to say, full of some talk about Drysdale
Haugh, andtheMackinnons and Drysdales,
as if he had business with one or the other.
But his wits, if he ever had any, were far
to seek when I saw him. The poor, miserable
fellow seemed at the last gasp ; indeed,
I should not wonder if he were not alive.'

I never heard of such a person,' interposed

auld Tarn in surprise. ' I've had
little broke [traffic] with the Highlands,
and the queer thing is how this mon should
ken of Drysdale Haugh  that is, if he is nota
Glasgy Highlander, born and bred within
a hunter yards of the Gallowgate. I am
not so full of conceit as to fancy the
fame of my works has crossed the
lochs, and floated as far wa' as Skye, or
John o' Groat's.'

I attended the man said Dr. Peter,
and I can bear witness that he had heard
of you or somebody of the same name, and
of your works, and that they had belonged
to a Mackinnon. I was curious to know
if his acquaintance extended to the Murray
s, but I could never find that he paid us
that compliment in his delirium. He's not
dead, but he's as bad. His mind became
affected to such a degree, and he grew so
unmanageable, that I had to apply to have
him lodged as a pauper in the asylum. He
may recover his judgment, or he may not.

I thought, to begin with, it was simply
bodily and mental weakness, following on
the fever in a bad subject, and that when
the first was better the second would mend
in a measure. But I can no longer pronounce
on the case

I hope the poor sinner was not an impostor
trying to get up a begging story,
and turn a penny on some scrap of information
he had picked up,' suggested auld
Tarn. ' You mind Mackinnon went to the
Hieland for sport every season ; but, preserve
us, he's been dead for mair than
twenty years!'

'And this man  a shackled [ill knit]
half-natural at best, broken down by hardship
and poor living  is not above thirty
or thirty-five, judging of him professionally.
He was never likely to trump up a story
to much purpose, and now he is hors de
combat either in the business of imposition
or in any other. That word " business" is
sometimes oddly applied. Have you heard

what Inglis, our oldest elder, said to that
newfangled chap Cairns, who has come
into the session, and is fain to put the other
elders through their facings in the discharge
of their duties ? u Muster Cairns, I have
been an elder for thirty years, and I know
my business !" '

Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
J. A. Smith. Post 8vo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d.

B ri I lat-Sava.rin. Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A.
Posts, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Browning.  The Pied Piper of

Hamelin. By Robert Browning.
Illust. by George Carline. Large
4to, illuminated cover, Is.

[/ preparation.

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by :

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Kathleen Mavourneen. Fcap. 8vo,
picture cover, Is.

Lindsay's Luck. Fcap. 8vo, picture
cover, Is.

Pretty Polly Pemberton. Fcap. 8vo
picture cover, Is.

Burton (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Veknky Lovett Cameron.
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

The Book of the Sword: Being a
History of the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Square
Bvo, cloth extra, 32s.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works:

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.
With a piece by Arthur

Hughes. Crop sloth extra, 6s.

Selected Poems Robert Buchanan.
With i piece by T. Dalzell.

Crown bvo, tra, 6s.

Undertones. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

London Poems. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

The Book of Form. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story".
Crown Svo, cloth extra. 6s.

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.
Crown bvo, cloth c::tra, 6s.

St. Abe and his Seven Wives : A Tale
of Salt Lake City. With a Frontispiece
by A. B. Houghton. Croivn
bvo, cloth extra, 5s.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by
Small. Crown bvo, cloth extra, 6s.

A Poet's Sketch Book: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan. Crown svo, cl. extra, 6s.

The Shadow of the Sword : A Romance.
Crown bvo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

A Child of Nature: A Romance. With
a Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds 2s.

God and the Man : A Romance. With
Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.
Crown bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards. 2s.

The Martyrdom of Madeline: A
Romance. With Frontispiece by A. W.
Cooper. Cr. bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.;
post 8ro, illustrated boards, 2s.

Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Anna Water: A Romance. Three
Vols., crown Svo.

The NewAbelard: A Romance. Three
Vols., crown bvo.

Foxglove Manor: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown svo. [In

Robert Buchanan'sComplete Poetical
Works. With Steel Portrait.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

[/ the press.

Burton (Robert):

The Anatomy of Melancholy. A
New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy bvo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Melancholy Anatomise: Being an
Abridgment, tor popular use, of Bur-tones
Anatomy of MELANCHOLY.

Post Svo, cloth limp. 2s. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard, engraved
by Goodwill, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron (Lord) :

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition, newly revised, with Twelve
full-page Plates. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Cameron (Commander) and

Captain Burton.  To the Gold Coast
for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By
Richard F. Burton and Varney
Lovett Cameron. With Frontispiece
and Maps. Two Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 21s.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Lovett),

Novels by:

Juliet's Guardian. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Deceivers Ever. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.

Campbell. White and Black:

Travels in the United States. By Sir
George Campbell, M.P. Demy Svo,
cloth extra, 14s.

Carlyle (Thomas) :

Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections.
By Concur D. Conway,
M.A. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
with Illustrations, 6s.

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson,

1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., own Svo, cloth extra, 24s.

Chapman's (George) Works :

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay by Algkr-
non Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown Svo, cloth
extra, 18s. ; or separately, 63. each.

Chatty & Jackson.  Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition. Large
4to, half-bound, 28s.

Chaucer :

Chaucer for Children : A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Haweis. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 2s 6d.

City (The) of Dream : A Poem.

Fcap. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [In the press.

Cobban.  The Cure of Souls :

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Collins (C. Allston). The Bar

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allusion
Collins. Post Svo, illustrated boards,
2s.

Collins (Mortimer & Frances),

Novels by :
Sweet and Twenty. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Frances. Post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Blacksmith and Scholar. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown Svo
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The Village Comedy. Post Svo, illus'.
boards, 2S. ; cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6a

You Play Me False. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.; cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by :

Sweet Anne Page. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Transmigration. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.

From Midnight to Midnight. Post
v vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

A Fight with Fortune. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins'' " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B Bucket
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, gift, 7. 61.

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by.

Each post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ; or crown Svo,
cloth extra, Illustrated, 3s. 6d.

Antonina. Illust. by A. Conan:

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and A. Concave.

Queen of Hearts Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and A. Concave.

My Miscellanies. With Illustrations
by A. Concave, and a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman in White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

byG. Du Maurier and F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs.? With Illustrations by

S. L. FiLDEsand Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G. Dl Maurier and C. S. Rants.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Fildes and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.

Heart and Science: A Story of the
Present Time. New and Cheaper
sedition. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
33. Cd.

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Post bvo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Conway Moncure D.), Works

by: '
Demonoloy and Devil Lore. Two

Vols., royal Svo, with 65 lllusts.,288.
A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated

by W. J. HbnnESSY. Square Svo,

cloth extra, Gs.
The Wandering Jew. Crown Svo,

cloth extra, Gs.

Thomas Carlyle: Letters and Recollections.
With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Cook (Dutton), Works by :

Hours with the Players. With a
Steel Plate Frontispiece. New and
Cheaper Edit., cr. Svo, cloth extra, 68.

Nights at the Play: A View of the
English Stage. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 62.

Leo: A Novel. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2a. ; crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Copyright.  A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright in
Literary and Dramatic Works. By
Sidney Jerrold, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. Post
cloth limp, 2s. Gd.

Cornwall.  Popular Romances

of the West of England; or, The
Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 61.

Creasy.  Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians: with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portrait s, 7a. 6d.

Cruikshank (George):
The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series : The First from 1835
to 1S43 : the Second from 1S44 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
Humour of Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, fte. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Hint:, Handel's, .
Crown Svo, cloth pit, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

The Life of George Cruikshank. By
Blanc hard Jerrold, Author of
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," ftc.
With S4 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown G
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson Crusoe. A choicely-printed
Edition, with 37 Woodcuts and Two
Steel Plates by George Cruik-
shank. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
100 Large Paper copy s, carefully
printed on hand-made paper, with
India proofs of the Illustrations,
price 36s.

Russians. Handbook of Heraldry;
with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cycles.  Hearts of Gold : A

Novel. By William Cycles. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Daniel.  Merrier England in
the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Root. Cruik-
shank. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Daudet. Port Salvation ; or,

The Evangelist. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
- 3s. 6d.

Covenant.  What shall my

Son be ? Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons. By Francis Covenant,
M.A. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies (Dr. N.

One Thousand
Crown 8vo, Is.

Nursery Hints:
Crown Svo, Is.

E.), Works by :

Medical Maxims.
cloth, Is. 6d.

A Mother's Guide,
cloth, Is. 6d.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 12s.

De Maitre.  A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maitre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

De Mille. A Castle in Spain.

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
a Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:
Cur Lady of Tears. Cr. Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Circe's Lovers. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra. 3s. 6d.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sketches by Boz. 1 NicholasNickleby.
Pickwick Papers. | Oliver Twist.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.
(Mayfair Library.) Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens,
1841-1S70. With a New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

About England with Dickens. By

Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. 8vo, cloth
extra, 10s. 6d.

Dictionaries:

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [Immediately.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [In preparation.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ; including
the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships,
Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities,
and the like. By Wm. A-. Wheeler
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. Third Edition, revised
throughout, with a New Appendix,
containing a Complete English Bibliography.
Crown Svo, 1,400 pages,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men. With

Historical and Explanatory Notes.

By Samuel A. Bent, M.A. Demy

Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
The Slang Dictionary: Etymological,

Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and 
Matters. By Believer
Edwards. Crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. Gd.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Dobson (W. T.), Works by :

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. Post Svo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. cl.

Dora.  Memories of our

Great Towns; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dora,
F.S A. With 38 Illustrations. New
and Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
"Reader's Handbook") Crown 8vo,
half-bound, 123. 6d. [In preparation.

Dramatists, The Old. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits,
6s. per Vol.
Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols.
Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including the doubtful
ones; Vol. II., the Poems and
Minor Translations, with an Introductory
Essay by Algerian Chas.
Swinburne; Vol. III., the Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer. 

Plants.
M.A., &c

73. 6d.

The Folk-lore of

By T. F. Thiselton Dyer,

Crown Svo, cloth extra,

[In preparation.

Edwardes(Mrs.A-), Novels by:

A Point of Honour. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Archie Lovell. Post 8vo, illust. bds.,

2s. ; crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Eggleston. Roxy: A Novel. By
Edward Eggleston. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s. ; cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6i.

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations.
by Rev. A. B. Grosart, D.D. Crown
fcvo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.j Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Herrick's 'Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

H herbert( Lord) of Carbury's Poems.
Edited, with Introduction, by J.
Wharton Collins. Crown 8vo,
parchment, 8s.

Emanuel.  On Diamonds and

Precious Stones: their History, Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s.

Englishman House, The: A

Practical Guide to all interested in
Selecting or Building a House, with
full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c.
By C. J. Richardson. Third Edition.
With nearly 600 Illustrations. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Ewald (Alex. Charles. F.S. A.),
Works by :

Stories from the State Papers.
With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

The Life and Times of Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Eyes, The. How to Use our

Eyes, and How to Preserve Them. By
John Browning, F.R.A.S., &c. v
7 Illustrations. Crown Svo, Is.; cloth
Is. 6d.

Fairholt. Tobacco: Its History
and Associations ; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
S and Countries. By F. W. Fair-holt,
F.S. A. With Coloured Frontispiece
and upwards of 100 II hi
tions by the Author. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ;
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the
like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

The Chemical History of a Candle :

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
Post Svo, cloth extra, with numerous
Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

On the Various Forces of Nature,
and their Relations to each other :
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous
Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

Fin-Bee.  The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by :

The Recreations of a Literary Man ;

or, Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.
Seventy-five Brooke Street.

Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Complete
Poems : Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Cr. Svo, cloth bds., 6s.

Fonblanque.  Filthy Lucre: A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 Vols., demy Svo, cl. bd2., 73. 6d. each.

Francisco (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each-post
8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

Olympia. | Queen Cophetua.

One by One.

Esther's Glove. Fcap. 8vo, picture

cover, Is.
A Real Queen. Three Vols., cr. 8vo.

Free.  Pandurang Hari ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Free, G.C.S.I., &c
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Friswell. Oneof Two: A Novel.

By Hair Friswell. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Frost (Thomas), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old:
London Fairs.

Fry.  Royal Guide to the London
Charities, 1884-5. By Herbert
Fry. Showing, in alphabetical order,
their Name, Date of Foundation, Address,
Objects, Annual Income, Chief
Officials, &c. Published Annually.
Crown 8vo, cloth, Is. 6d. \ Immediately.

Gardening Books:

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse
: Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower,Fruit, and Frame Garden,
By George Glenny. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Jerrold, Author of "The
Garden that Paid the Rent," &c
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Jerrold. Illustrated. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Jerrold. Fcap. Svo, illustrated
cover, Is.; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

Garrett.  The Capel Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Post
8vc,illust.bds., 2s. ; cr.Svo, cl.cx., 3s.6cL

German Popular Stories. Collected
by the Brothers Grimm, ancf
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin.
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Crcikshank. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. 6d. gilt edges, 7s. 6c>.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Gentleman's Magazine (The)

for 1884. One Shilling Monthly. A
New Serial Story, entitled "Philistia,"
by Cecil Power, is now appearing.
"Science Notes," by W. Mattie
Williams, F.R.A.S., and "Table
Talk," by Sylvanus Urban, are also
continued monthly.

Now ready, the Volume for July to
December, 1883, cloth extra, price
83. 6d. ; Cases for binding, 2s. each.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Robin Gray.

For Lack of Gold.

What will the World Say?

In Honour Bound.

In Love and War.

For the King.

Queen of the Meadow.

In Pastures Green.

The Braes of Yarrow.

The Flower of the Forest.

A Heart's Problem.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Dead Heart.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
The Golden Shaft.
Of High Degree.

Fancy-free. Three Vols., crown Svo.

Gilbert (William), Novels by :
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Dr. Austin's Guests.

The Wizard of the Mountain.

James Duke, Costermonger.

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Series contains  The
Wicked World  Pygmalion and Galatea
 Charity  The Princess  The
Palace of Truth  Trial by Jury.

The Second Series contains  broken
Hearts  Engaged  Sweethearts 
Gretchen  Dan'l Drucc  Tom Cobb 
H.M.S. Pinafore  The Sorcerer  The
Pirates of Penzance.

Glenny. A Year's Work In

Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Glenny. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Godwin. Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post Svo. cloth limp , 2s.

Golden Library, The:

Square imo (Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Songs for
Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of the
A I ham bra.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, byT.M'CRiE.D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the luv. K. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and Queen
Mab. With Essay by Leigh Hist.

Shelley's Later Poems: Lion and
Cythna, &c

Shelley's Posthumous Poems, the

Shelley Papers, ftc.
Shelley's Prose Works, including A

Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi, St,

I ivy no, &c.
White's Natural History of Sel-borne.

Edited, with Additions, by

Thomas Brown, F.L.S.

ii

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The: An Encyclopaedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown Svo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 73. 6d.

Gordon Cummings. F.), Works

by:
In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illustrations.
Demy Svo, cloth extra,
8s. 6d.

In the Himalayas. With numerous
Illustrations. Demy Svo, cloth extra,
8s. 6d. [Shortly.

Graham.  The Professors

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is. ; cloth
extra, 2s. 6d.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
Koner. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. Suffer. With 545 Illustrations.
New and Cheaper Edition, demy Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Greenwood (James), Works by:

The Wilds of London. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Low-life Deeps: An Account of the

Strange Fish to be Found There.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Dick Temple: A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Guyot.  The Earth and Man ;

or, Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind. By
Arnold Guyot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray ;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 4s. Gd.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
Picus. Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by :
Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth
extra, 8s.

New Symbols. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Legends of the Morrow. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

The Serpent Play. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Hall. Sketches of Irish Character.
By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Machine, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Holiday.  Everyday Papers.

By Andrew Holiday. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salamanca. Post Svo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Hanks Pansy: A Collection of
Very EasyTricks.Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by \V. H. Cremer. With 2co
Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d.

Hardy (Lady Duffus).  Paul

Winter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Dlffus Hardy. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Hardy (Thomas. Under the

Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of " Far from the Madding
Crowd." Crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated boards,
2s.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by:

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small Svo, illustrated
cover, Is. ; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
with Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations,
6s.

The Art of Decoration. Square 8vo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, 10s. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
and numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.).  American

Humorists. Including Washington
Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus
Ward, Mark Twain, and Bret Earth.
By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Hawthorne(Julian), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. Gel. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Garth.

Ellice Question.

Sebastian Stroke.

Prince Saroni's Wife.

Dust.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.
Fcap. Svo, illustrated cover, Is. ;
cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

Fortune's Fool. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Beatrice Randolph. With Illustrations
by A. Fredericks. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 33. 6d. [Preparing.

Heath (F. G.).  My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author of
The Fern World," &c. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; cloth gilt, and gilt
edges, 6s.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Animals and their Masters. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Social Pressure. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Can de Biron : A Novel. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 61.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Meptalogia (The); or, The

Seven against Sense. A Cap with
Seven Bells. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, Gs.

Herbert. The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Carbury. Edited, with
an Introduction, by J. Wharton
Collins. Crown 8vo, bound in parchment,
8s.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
boards, 18s.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Works by :
Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The New South West: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With confine Illustrations and Tim e
Maps. Demy Svo, cloth extra,
*4s. [In preparation.

Hindley (Charles), Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings : Including
the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connect with

Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

Holmes (Wendell), Works by :

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d. ; another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Holmes.  The Science of
Voice Production and Voice Preservation:
A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. Crown 8vo,
cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Hood (Thomas):
Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse. Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original Illustrations.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hood (Tom), Works by:

From Nowhere to the North Pole :
A Noah's Astrological Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Briton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.

A Golden Heart: A Novel. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Hooks (Theodore) Choice Humorous
Works, including his Ludicrous
Advent; Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
73 . 6d.

Hooper. The House of Ray :

A Novel. By Mrs. George Poorer.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Horne.  Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
Horne. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Simmers.
Tenth Edition, crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s.



Howell. Conflicts of Capital
and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered : Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
of Great Britain, showing their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in
their Political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George
Howell. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hugo.  The Hunchback of

Notre Dame. By Victor Hugo.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Hunt.  Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Thorn croft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self Condemned.

Angelo.  Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Angelo. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Irish Wit and Humour, Songs

of. collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Irving (Henry).  The Paradox

of Acting. Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's " Le Paradoxe
sur le Comedies," by Walter berries
Pollock. With a Preface by
Henry Irving. Crown 8vo, in parchment,
4s. 6d.

Irving (Washington),Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
Tales of a Traveller.
Tales of the Alhambra.

James.  Confidence: A Novel.

By Henry James, Jun. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Janvier.  Practical Keramics

for Students. By Catherine A.
Janvier. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by. Each

crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; or post
.Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Dark Colleen.

The Queen of Connaught.

Jefferies (Richard), Works by:

Nature near London. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 63.

The Life of the Fields. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. [In the press.

Jennings (H. J.).  Curiosities

of Criticism. By Henry J. Jennings.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Jennings (Hargrave).  The

Rosicrucians: Their Rites and Mysteries.
With Chapters on the Ancient
Fire and Serpent Worshippers. By
Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.
A New Edition, crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Jerrold (Tom), Works by :

The Garden that Paid the Rent
By Tom Jerrold. Fcap. 8vo, illustrated
cover, Is. ; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Jerrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants
we Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Jerrold. Post 8vo, cloth

limp, 2s. 6d.

Jesse.  Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Jones (Wm, F.S.A.), Works by:

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
200 Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination,
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crowns and Coronations : A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
With One Hundred illustration
n s. C r. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Jonson's (Ben) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
Gifford. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown Svo,
cloth extra, 18s. ; or separately, 6s. each.

Josephus,TheCompleteWorks

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both "The Antiquities of the
Jews" and " The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Kavanagh. The Pearl Fountain,
and other Fairy Stories. By
Bridget and Julia Kavanagh. With
Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.
Small 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

Kempt.  Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by :

Each crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
or post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Oakshott Castle. | Number Seventeen

Lamb (Charles):

Mary and Charles Lamb : Their
Poems, Letters, and Remains. With
Reminiscences and Notes by W.
Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's
Portrait of the Essayist, Facsimiles
of the Title-pages of the rare First
Editions of Lamb's and Coleridge's
Works, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the " Essay on
Roast Pig." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Essays of Elia. Complete Edition.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, 2s.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
Reprinted from unique copies.
Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Little Essays: Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand and One Nights:
commonly called, in England, "The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Arabian Society in the Middle Ages ;
Studies from "The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of "The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanch y
Lane-Poole. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lares and Penates j or, The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by:

The Story of the London Parks.
With Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Clerical Anecdotes. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 23. 6d.

Forensic Anecdotes Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Theatrical Anecdotes. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Leigh (Henry S.), Works by :

Carols of Cockayne. With numerous
Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Jeux esprit. Collected and Edited
by Henry Sleigh. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Life in London ; or, The History
of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Crlik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Witch Stories.

There Story of Joshua Davidson.
Ourselves Essays on Women.

Crown Svo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Patricia Kimball.

The Atonement of Learn Dundas.

The World Well Lost.

Under which Lord ?

With a Silken Thread.

The Rebel of the Family.

My Love ! "

lone. Three Vols., crown Svo.

Locks and Keys.  On the Development
and Distribution of Primitive
Locks and Keys. By Lieut-gen.
Pitt-rivers, F.R.S. With numerous
Illustrations. Demy 4to, half Roxburgh,
16s.



Longfellow :

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.

Including "Outre Mer," "Hyperion,"
" Kavanagh," " The Poets and
Poetry of Europe," and " Driftwood."
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown
bvo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Lucy.  Gideon Fleyce: A Novel.

By Henry W. Lucy. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, 18s.

McCarthy (Justin, M.P.),Works

by:

A History of Our Own Times, from
the Accession of Queen Victoria to
the General Election of 1880. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each.  Also a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols, crown 8vo, cloth extra,
6s. each.

A Short History of Our Own Times.
One Volume, crown 8vo, cloth extra,
6s.

History of the Four Georges. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each. [Vol. I. in the press.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Dear Lady Disdain.

The Waterdale Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

A Fair Saxon.

Linley Rochford

Miss Misanthrope.

Donna Quixote.

The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens. With 12 Illustrations
by F. Barnard. Three Vols.,
crown bvo.

McCarthy (Justin H.), Works

by:

Serapis, and other Poems. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

An Outline of the History of Ireland,
from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

MacDonald (George, LL.D.),

Works by :

The Princess and Curdle. With n
Illustrations by James Allen. Small
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Gutta-Percha Willie, the Working
Genius. With 9 Illustrations by
Arthur Hughes. Square 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Paul Faber, Surgeon. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. Millais. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Thomas Wingfold, Curate. With a
Frontispiece by C. J. Staniland.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macdonald.  Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonald.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macgregor.  Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Machine Portrait-Gallery (The)
of Illustrious Literary Characters;
with Memoirs  Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal  illustrative
of the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, Bea. With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth gilt,
10s. 6d.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid. Square
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Through Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

About Yorkshire With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid, Engraved
bv Swain. Square bvo, cloth extra,
103. 6d.

The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Crown bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
bvo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Lost Rose, and other Stories. Crown
bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Mackay.  Interludes and Undertones:
or, Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown 8vo,
cloth e extra, 63.

Magician's Own Book (The) :

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magic No Mystery: Tricks with

Cards, Dice, Balls, &c, with fully
descriptive Directions ; the Art of
Secret Writing ; Training of Performing
Animals, &c. With Coloured
Frontispiece and many Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 5s.

Matlock (W. H.), Works by :

The New Republic; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, bound in parchment,
8s.

Is Life worth Living? Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mallory s (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Marlowe's Works. Including
his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; or,
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Open ! Sesame !
Written in Fire.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little stepson.
Fighting the Air.

Waterman. Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Masters
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Mark Twain. Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.
Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
With 100 Illustrations. Small Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition,
illustrated boards, 2s.

An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. Gd.

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With.
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition (under
the title of " Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "), post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Without Illustrations, post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Stolen White Elephant, &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Huckleberry
Finn. With numerous Illustrations
by the Author. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. [Prcpar

Massinger's Plays. From the

Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo.
cloth extra, 6s.

Mathew.  London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mathew. W
numerous Illustrations. Crown
cloth extra, 3s 6d.

Mayfair Library, The:
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.
A Journey Round My Room. Bjj

Xavikk he Mistake. Translate

by Henry Attwell.
Latter Day Lyrics. Edited by \V.

Davenport Adams.
Quips and Quiddities. Selected by

W. Davenport Adams.
The Agony Column of "The Times. '

from 1S00 to 1870. Edited, with an

Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Balzac's "Comedie Humaine"and

its Author. With Translations by

II. II. Walker.



Mayfair Literary, continued 

Melancholy Anatomise: A Popular
Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy
of Melancholy."

Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,

and Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.
Dobson.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World  Pygmalion and
Galatea  Charity  The Princess 
The Palace of Truth  Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing: Broken
Hearts  Engaged  Sweethearts 
Gretchen  Dan'l Bruce  Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore  The Sorcerer
The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour.
Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves.

Animals and their Masters. By Sir
Arthur Helps.

Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.

Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry
J. Jennings.

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert
Kempt.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.


Clerical Anecdotes. By Jacob Lar-wood.



Forensic Anecdotes; or, Humour and
Curiosities of the Law and Men of
Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Carols of Cockayne. By Henry S.
Leigh.

Jeux esprit. Edited by Henry S.
Leigh.

True History of Joshua Davidson.
By E. Lynn Linton.

Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.

Ourselves: Essays on Women. By
E. Lynn Linton.

Pastimes and Players. By Robert
Macgregor.

The New Paul and Virginia. By
W. H. Matlock.

Mayfair Library, continued 

The New Republic. By W. H. Mal-lock.


Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmonde-
ley-penned.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol-
mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by
George Du Maurier.

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.
Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By
H. A. Page.

Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.

More Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh
Rowley.

The Philosophy of Handwriting. By
Don Felix de Salamanca.

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.

Old Stories Retold. By Walter
Thornbury.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
By Dr. Andrew Wilson.

Medicine, Family. One Thousand
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
Licentiate of the Royal College of
Physicians of London. Crown 8vo,
Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Merry Circle (The) : A Book of

New Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Touch and Go. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra,3s.6d.; postSvo, illust. bds., 2s.

Mr. Dorillion. PostSvo, illust. bds., 2s.

Miller.  Physiology for the

Young: or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
use in Classes and Popular Reading
With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs.
F. Fenwick Miller. Small 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Milton (J. L.), Works by:

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise
Set of Rules for the Management of
the Skin; with Directions for Die,.
Wines. Soaps, Baths, &c. Small 8vo,
Is. ; cloth extra, Is. 6d

The Bath in Diseases of the Skin.

Small Svo, Is.; cloth extra, Is. 6d.
The Laws of Life, and their Relation,

to Diseases of the Skin. Small Svo,

Is. ; cloth extra, Is. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Moncrieff*.  The Abdication;
or, Time Tries All. An Historical
Drama. By VV. D. Scott-month u
With Seven Etchings by John Petrie,
R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J.
MacWhirtek, A.R.A., Colin Hunter,
R. Macbeth, and Tom Graham. Large
4to, bound in buckram, 21s.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown Svo.cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Life's Atonement.
A Model Father.
Joseph's Coat.
Coals of Fire.
By the Gate of the Sea.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Val Strange : A Story of the Primrose
Way.

Hearts.

The Way of the World. Three Vols.,
crown Svo.

(North Italian Folk. By Mrs.
Coins Carr. Illust. by Randolph
Caldecott. Square 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Number Nip (Stories about),

the Spirit of the Giant Mountains.
Retold for Children by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J.
Moyr Smith. Post 8vo, cloth extra,
5s.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's

Guide in Health and Disease. By N.
E. Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

Oliphant.  Whiteladies : A

Novel. With Illustrations by Arthur
Hopkins and Henry Woods. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

O Reilly.  Phoebe's Fortunes :

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post 8vo, illustrated boards,
2s.

O Shaughnessy (Artis), Works

by:
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. Svo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. 8vo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Lays of France. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 10s. 6d.

Ouida, Novels by. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 5s. each ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. each.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Cecil Cast I e-

maine's Gage.
Italia.
Tricotrin.
Puck.
Folle Farine.

TwoLittleWooden
Shoes.

A Dog of Flanders.

Pascal.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.

Bimbi.
In Maremma.

Wands: A Novel. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 5s.

Frescoes : Dramatic Sketches. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Bimbi : Presentation Edition. Sq.
8vo, cloth gilt, cinnamon edges,
7s. 6d.

Princess Napraxine. Three Vols.,
crown Svo. [Shortly.

Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos. Selected
from the Works of Ouida by F.
Sydney Morris Small crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s.

Page (H. A.), Works by :

Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study
a Portrait. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
Bea. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
D.D. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Paul Ferrol :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each
Paul Ferrol : A Novel.
Why Paul Ferrol Killed His Wife.

Paul. Gentle and Simple. By
Margaret Acres Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.



Payn (James), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Lost Sir Massinger.

The Best of Husbands

Walter's Word.

Halves. | Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her.

Less Black than We're Painted.

High Spirits.
Carlyon's Year.

By Proxy.

Under One Roof.

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

From Exile.

A Grape from Thorn.

For Cash Only.

Post Gvo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family. | At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The Clyffards of Clyffe.

The Family Scapegrace

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Gwendolen's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

V Abbey.
Not Wooed, but Won.
Two Hundred Pounds Reward.

Kit: A Memory. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

The Canon's Ward. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

Penned (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by : Post 8vo, cloth kmp,
2s. 6d. each.

Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.

The Muses of Mayfair. Vers de
Societe, Selected and Edited by H.
C. Penned.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten full-page
Illusts. by G. Du Maurier.

Phelps.  Beyond the Gates.

By Elizabeth Stuart Phelps,
Author of " The Gates Ajar." Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d. Published by
special arrangement with the Author,
and Copyright in England and its
Dependencies.

Pirkis.  Trooping with Crows :

A Story. By Catherine Pirkis. Fcap.
8vo, picture cove r, Is. 

Planche (J. R.), Works by:

The Encyclopaedia of Costume ; or,
A Dictionary of Dress  Regal, Ecclesiastical,
Civil, and Military  from
the Earliest Period in England to the
Reign of George the Third. Including
Notices of Contemporaneous
Fashions on the Continent, and a
General History of the Costumes of
the Principal Countries of Europe.
Two Vols., demy 410, half morocco,
profusely illustrated with Coloured
and Plain Plates and Woodcuts,
7 7s. The Vols, may also be had
separately (each complete in itself )
at 3 13s. 6d. each : Vol. I. The
Dictionary. Vol. II. A General
History of Costume in Europe.

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Play-time : Sayings and Doings
of Babylon. By Edward Stanford.
Large 4to, handsomely printed in
Colours, 5s.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols.,
8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, 10s. 6d.

Poe (Edgar Allan): 

The Choice Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
other Stories. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Popes Poetical Works. Complete
in One Volume. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Valentina: A Sketch. With a Frontispiece
by Hal Ludlow. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

The Foreigners. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. [Shortly

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by :

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illustrations.
Small crown Svo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6(1.

Rough Ways made Smooth : A
Series of Familiar Essays on Scientific
Subjects. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Our Place among Infinities : A Series
of Essays contrasting our Little
Abode in Space and Time with the
Infinities Around us. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

The Expanse of Heaven : A Series
of Essays on the Wonders of the
Firmament. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

The Great Pyramid: Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Illustrations. Crown bvo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Wages and Wants of Science
Workers. Crown 8vo, Is 6d.

Pyrotechnist's Treasury (The);

or, Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 4s. 6d.

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully

Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
Dor! Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Rambosson.  Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambosson, Laureate
of the Institute of France. Translated
by C. B. Pitman. Crown 8vo,

cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations,
and a beautifully executed Chart of
Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Readers Handbook (The) of

Allusions, References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Third Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Richardson.  A Ministry of
Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Reade (Charles, D.C.L.), Novels
by. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
each ; or crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated,
3s. 6d. each.

Peg Wofflngton. Illustrated by S. L.
Fildes, A.R.A.

Christie Johnstonee. Illustrated by
William Small.

It is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. Unwell.

The Course of True Love Never did
run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Paterson.

The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack
of all Trades; and James Lambert.
Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.

The Double Marriage. Illustrated
by Sir John Gilbert, R.A., and
Charles Keene.

The Cloister and the Hearth. Illustrated
by Charles Keene.

Hard Cash. Illustrated by F. W.
Lawson.

Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.
Fildes, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.

Foul Play. Illustrated by George
Du Maurier.

Put Yourself in His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated
by Helen Paterson, S. L. Fildes,
A.R.A. .Charles Green, and Henry
Woods, Aera.

A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate
Crawford.

A Woman-hater. Illustrated by
Thos. Coulter.

Readiana. With a Steel Plate Portrait
of Charles Reade.

A New Collection of Stories. In
Three Vols., crown 8vo. [Preparing.

Liddell (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Her Mother's Darling.

The Prince of Wales's Garden Party.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Our Old Country Towns. With over
50 Illusts. Sq. Svo, cloth gilt, 10s. 6d.

Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.
50 Illusts. Sq. Svo. cloth gilt, 10s. 6d.

About England with Dickens. With
58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer
and C. A.Vanderhoof. Square Svo,
cloth gilt, 10s. 6d.



Robinson (F. W.), Novels by :

Women are Strange. Cr. 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d ; posttfvo, Must. bds. ,2s.

The Hands of Justice. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:

The Poets' Birds. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

The Poets' Beasts. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Robinson Crusoe: A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates by
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. hoo
Large-Paper copies, printed on hand-made
paper, with India proofs of the
Illustrations, price 36s.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed,
price 5s.

Rowley (Hen. Hugh), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Puniana. Profusely Illustrated.

Russel (Clark. Round the

Galley-Fire. By W. Clark Russell,
Author of "The Wreck of the
Grosvenor." Cr. bvo, cloth extra, 6s.

Sala. Gaslight and Daylight.

Ey George Augustus Sala. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Sanson.  Seven Generations
of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (1688 to 1847). Edited
by Henry Sanson. Crown 8vo, cloth
ex tra, 3s. 6d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion in the Path.
The Two Dreamers.

Science Gossip: An Illustrated
Medium of Interchange for Students
and Lovers of Nature. Edited by J. E.
Taylor, F.L.S.,x. Devoted to Geology,
Botany, Physiology, Chemistry,
Zoology, Microscopy, Telescope, Physiography,
&c. Price 4d. Monthly ; or
5s. per year, post free. It contains
Original Illustrated Articles by the
best-known Writers and Workers of
the day. A Monthly Summary of Discovery
and Progress in every department
of Natural Science is given.
Large space is devoted to Scientific
Notes and Queries," thus enabling
every lover of nature to chronicle his
own original observations, or get his
special difficulties settled. For active
workers and collectors the " Exchange
Column " has long proved a well and
widely known means of barter and
exchange. The column devoted to
"Answers to Correspondents " has been
found helpful to students requiring
personal help in naming specimens, &c.
The Volumes of Science Gossip for the
last eighteen years contain an unbroken
History of the advancement of Natural
Science within that period. Each
Number contains a Coloured Plate
and numerous Woodcuts. Vols. I . to
XIV. may be had at 7s. 6d. each ; and
Vols. XV. to XIX. (18S3), at 5s. each.

"Secret Out" Series, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated,
4s. 6d. each.

The Secret Out: One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations
; with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or " White
Magic." By W. H. Cremer. 300
Engravings.

The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or,
Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations.

The Art of Amusing : A Collection of
Graceful Arts, Games,Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades. By Frank Belleww.
With 300 Illustrations.

HankyPanky: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic,
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With many
Illustrations.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

The "Secret Out" Series, continued
Magic No Mystery : Tricks with
Cards, Dice, Balls, &c, with fully
descriptive Directions; the Art of
Secret Writing ; Training of Performing
Animals, &c. With Coloured
Frontispiece and many illustrations


Senior (William), Works by :

Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
By Stream and Sea. Post 8vo, cloth

limp, 2s. 6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Man. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
8vo, cloth extra a, 6s.

Shakespeare :

The First Folio Shakespeare. Mr.
William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623.  A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process  ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.
TheLansdowne Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moyr Smith. Crown 4to, cloth
gilt, 6s.
The Handbook of Shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.
A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 83.

Shelley's Complete Works, in

Four Vols., post 8vo, cloth limp, 8s. ;
or separately, 2s. each. Vol. I. contains
his Early Poems, Queen Mab,
&c, with an Introduction by Leigh
Hunt; Vol. II., his Later Poems,
Lion and Cythna, &c. ; Vol. III.,
Posthumous Poems, the Shelley Papers,
&c. : Vol. IV., his Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zas-
trozzi, St. Irvine, &c.

Sheridan s Complete Works.

with Life and Anecdotes. Including
his Dramatic Writings, printed from
the Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men.

With Historical and Explanatory
Notes by Samuel A. Bent, M.A.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
"Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Essay on the Poetry ot
Sidney, and Notes, by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Three Vols., crown
8vo, cloth boards, 18s :

Signboards: Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Rotten. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sims (G. R.), Works by :

How the Poor Live. With 60 Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard. Large
4to, Is.

Horrible London. Reprinted, with
Additions, from the Daily News.
Large 410, 6d. [Shortly.

Sketches.  A Match in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketches. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Slang Dictionary, The: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d.

Smith (J. Moyr), Works by :

The Prince of Argolis : A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. By J. Moyr
Smith. Small Svo, cloth extra, with
130 Illustrations, 3s. 6d.

Tales of Old Thule. Collected and
Illustrated by J. Moyr Smith.
Crown Svo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated,
6s.

The Wooing of the Water Witch:
A Northern Oddity. By Evan Dal-corne.
Illustrated by J. Monk
Smith. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

South-West, The New: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New
Mexico.Arizona.and Northern Mexico.
By Ernst von Hessk-Wartegg,
With 100 fine Illustrations and 3 Maps.
Svo, cloth extra, 14s. [In preparation.



Spalding.-Elizabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of
the Belief in the Existence of Devils,
and the Powers possessed by Them.
By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Speight.  The Mysteries of

Heron Dyke. By T. W. Speight.
With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen
Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. Tory. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s.

Staunton.  Laws and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Games. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B.Wormald. New
Edition, small cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Sterndale. The Afghan Knife:

Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Stevenson (Louis), Works by :

Travels with a Donkey in the

Cevennes. Frontispiece by Walter

Crane. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

An Inland Voyage. With a Frontispiece
by Walter Crane. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Virginius Puisque, and other
Papers. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Studies of Men and Books.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

New Arabian Nights. Crown 8vo,
cl. extra, 6s. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

The Silvered Squatters. With
Frontispiece. Cr. tfvo, cloth extra, 6s.

St. John.  A Levantine Family.

By Bayle St. John. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Stoddard.  Summer Cruising
in the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Stoddard. Illustrated by
Wallis Mackay. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

St. Pierre.  Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. By Bernardin
de St. Pierre. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
With Notices of their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Simmer
; and a Frontispiece, Crown
8vo cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions,
Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period
to the Present Time. With 140 Illustrations.
Edited by William Hone.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London : A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. With a Map
of Suburban London. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Swifts Choice Works, in Prose

and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Travels." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Swinburne (Algerian C),

Works by:
The Queen Mother and Rosamond.

Fcap. 8vo, 5s.
Atlanta in Corydon. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Chastened. Tragedy. Crown 8vo,

7S.
Poems and Ballads. First Series.

Fcap. 8vo, 9s. Also in crown 8vo,

at same price.

Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

Fcap. 8vo, 9s. Also in crown 8vo, at

same price.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. 8vo,

Is.
William Blake: A Critical Essay.

With Facsimile Paintings. Demy

8vo, 16s.

Songs before Sunrise. Crown 8vo,
10s. 6d.

Bothwell: A Tragedy. Crown 8vo,

12s. 6d.
George Chapman : An Essay. Crown

8vo, 7S.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. 8vo, 6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown 8vo, 12s.
Erechtheus : Tragedy. Crown 8vo,

6s.
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. 8vo, Is.

A Note on Charlotte Bronze. Crown
8vo, 6s.

A Study of Shakespeare. Crown
8vo, 8s.

Songs of the Springtide. Crown
bvo, 6s.

Studies in Song. Crown 8vo, 7s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

A. C. Swinburne's Works, continued 
Mary Stuart : A Tragedy. Crown

Svo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown bvo, 9s.

A Century of Roundels. Small 4to,
cloth extra, 8s.

Syntax s (Dr.) Three Tours:

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
Rotten. Medium 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Taine's History of English

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small 8vo,
cloth boards, sos.  Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 15s.

Taylor (Dr).  The Sagacity
end Morality of Plants: A Sketch
of the Life and Conduct of the Vegetable
Kingdom. By J. E. Taylor,
F.L.S., &c. With Coloured Frontispiece
and hoo Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," 'twixt Axe and Crown,"
"The Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's
Wife," "Anne Boleyn," " Plot and
Passion'' One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

*** The Plays may also be had separately,
at Is. each.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.
Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading'. With Coloured
Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
posts, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cressida.

Proud Maisie.

The Violin-Player.

Thomson season sand Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thomas (M.). A Fighter Life:

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post
8vo, illustrated boards

Thornbury (Walter), Works by

Haunted London. Edited by I
ward Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illustrations in
Colours, facsimile from Turner's
Original Drawings. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Old Stories Re-told. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post 8vo,
ill stated boards, 2s.

Times (John), Works by:

The History of Clubs and Club Life
in London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With numerous Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Torrens.  The Marquess

Wellesley, Architect of Empire. An
Historic Portrait. By W. M. Torrens,
M.P. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14s.

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Way We Live Now.
The American Senator.
Kept in the Dark.
Frau Frohmann.
Marion Fay.

Mr. Scarborough's Family. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The Land Leaguers. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. [S/.\

T rol lope( Frances E.). Novels by

Like Ships upon the Sea. Crown
Svo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Mabel's Progress. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Anne Furness.
extra, 3s. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth



Trollope. A.). Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
Thomas Adolphus Trollope. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Tatler (Sarah), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

What She Came Through.

The Bride's Pass.

Van Laun. History of French

Literature. By Henry Van Laun.
Complete in Three Vols., demy 8vo,
cloth boards, 7s. 6d. each.

Villari.  A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villari. Fcap.
Svo, picture cover, Is.

Walcott. Church Work and

Life in English Minsters; and the
English Student's Monastic. By the
Rev. Mckenzie E. C. Walcott, Bed.
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with Map and Ground-Plans, 14s.

Walford (Edw., M.A.),Works by :

The County Families of the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c., of more than 12,000 distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. Twenty-fourth Annual Edition,
for 1884, cloth, full gilt, 50s. [Shortly.

The Shilling Peerage (1884). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32010, cloth, Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetage (1884).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32010,
cloth, Is. Published annually.

The Shilling Knightage (1884). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32100,
cloth, Is. Published annually.

The Shilling House of Commons
(1884). Containing a List of all the
Members of the British Parliament,
their Town and Country Addresses,
&c. 32010, cloth, Is. Published
annually.

Edw. W'alford's Works, continued 

The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1884). In One Volume,
royal 32100, cloth extra, gilt edges,
5s. Published annually.

Haunted London. By Walter

Thornbury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Walton andCotton'sComplete

Angler; or, The Contemplative Man's
Recreation ; being a Discourse ot
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs aod
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, aod
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crown 8vo, cloth antique, 7s. 61.

Wanderer's Library, The:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or, Life
among the Ostrich Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

Merrier England in the Olden Time.

By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by Root. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities

By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low Life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People.

By the Chevalier de .

With 22 Illustrations.
The Life and Adventures of a Cheap

Jack. By Ooe of the Fraternity.

Edited by Charles Hindley.
The World Behind the Scenes. By

Percy Fitzgerald.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Hindley. With Lusts.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. ByE.P
Kingston. With a Frontispiece.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

The Wanderer's Library, continued 

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Illustrations.


London Characters. By Henry May-hew.

Illustrated.
Seven Generations of Executioners:

Memoirs of the Sanson Family

(1688 to 1847). Edited by Henry

Sanson.
Summer Cruising in the South

Seas. By Charles Warren

Stoddard. Illustrated by Wallis

Mackay.

Warner.  A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Warrants, &c. :

Warrant to Execute Charles I. An
exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 2s.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price
2s.

Magna Charta. An Exact Facsimile
of the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 5s.

The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Price 5s.

Westropp.  Handbook of Pottery
and Porcelain ; or, History of
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Fodder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List of
Marks. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 4s. 6d.

Whistler v. Ruskin: Art and

Art Critics. By J. A. Macneill
Whistler. Seventh Edition, square
8vo, Is.

White's Natural History of

Melbourne. Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s.

Williams (W. Mattie, F.R.A.S.),

Works by :

Science Notes. See the Gentleman's
Magazine. Is. Monthly.

Science In Short Chapters. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown
8vo, cloth limp, with Illusts., 2s. 6d.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew, F.R.S.E.),

Works by:

Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalists Notebook.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Wilson (C.E.).  Persian Wit and

Humour: Being the Sixth Book of
the Samaritan of Jamie, Translated
for the first time from the Original
Persian into English Prose and Verse.
With Notes by C. E. Wilson, M.R.A.S
Assistant Librarian Royal Academy of
Arts. Cr. 8vo, parchment binding, 4s.

Winter (J. S.), Stories by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cavalry Life.

Regimental Legends.

Wood.  Sabina: A Novel. By
Lady Wood. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases:

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and
Out-of-the-way Matters. By Believer
Edwards. Cr. Svo, half-bound, 12s. 6d.

Wright (Thomas), Works by:

Caricature History of the Georges.
(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, &c. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque in Art, Literature.
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illustrated by 1". W. Fairholt,
F.S.A. Large post Svo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Yates (Edmund), Novels by :
Post Svo, illustrated boards 2s. each.
Castaway.
The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.



NOVELS BY THE BEST AUTHORS.
At every Library.

Princess Napraxine. By Ouida. i
Three Vols. [Shortly.

Dorothy Forster. By Walter
Besant. Three Vols. [Shortly.

The New Abelard. By Robert Buchanan.
Three Vols.

Fancy-free, &c. By Charles Gibbon.
Three Vols.

J one. E. Lynn Linton. Three Vols.

The Way of the World. By D. Christie
Murray. Three Vols.

Maid of Athens. By Justin McCarthy,
M.P. With 12 Illustrations by Fred.
Barnard. Three Vols.

The Canon's Ward.

Three Vols.
A Real Queen. By R

Three Vols.

A New Collection

Charles Reade.

By James Payn.

E. Francisco.

of Stories by
Three Vols.
[In preparation.

THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.

Popular Stories by the Best Authors,
crown 8vo, cloth

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena. .
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.



BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever.
Juliet's Guardian.

Library Editions, many Illustrated,
extra, 3s. 6d. each.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the
Lady.

TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science

Antonina.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. P

BY BUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH Derwent
Our Lady of Tears. | Circe's Lovers

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued

BY M. BET HAM-edwards.
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. | Queen Cophetua.

One by One.

Prefaced by Sir Battle Free.
Pandurang Hari.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capel Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.

Robin Gray.

For Lack of Gold.

In Love and War.

What will the World Say?

For the King.

In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.

In Pastures Green.
The Flower of the FOrest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Golden Shaft.
Of High Degree.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth.

Ellice Question.
Sebastian Stroke.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Dust.
Fortune's Fool.

BY SIR A. HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self Condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, Jun.
Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Queen of Connaught.
The Dark Colleen.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY.
Number Seventeen.
O.ikshott Castle.

Piccadilly Novels, continued 
BY E. LYNN LINT'
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love!"

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

by justin McCarthy, m.p.

The Waterdale Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
Linley Rochford. | A Fair Saxon.
Dear Lady Disdain.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. MAC DO NELL.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
Lost Rose. | The Evil Eye.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame ! | Written in Fire.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY
Life's Atonement. Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. Val Strange.

A Model Father. Hearts.

By the Gate of the Sea.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MARGARET A. PAUL
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir Massing High Spirits.

bert. Under One Roof.

Best of Husbands Carlyon's Year.

Fallen Fortunes. A Confidential
Halves. Agent.

Walter's Word. From Exile.

What HeCost Her A Grape from
Less Black than Thorn.

We're Painted. For Cash Only.

By Proxy. Kit: A Memory



Piccadilly Novels, continued 
BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentina.
The Foreigners.
BY CHARLES READE, D.C.L.
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash. | Peg Washington.
Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself In His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.

The Wandering Heir.
A Woman-hater.

A Simpleton.
Readiana.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden-party.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
One Against the World.
The Lion in the Path
The Two Dreamers.

Piccadilly Novels, continued 
BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS
Proud Maisie. | Cressida.
The Violin-place".

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE-the
Way we Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frau Frohmann.
Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.

BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY T. A. TROLLOPE.
Diamond Cut Diamond.
By IVAN TURGENIEFF and Others.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY SARAH Tatler
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life.
Regimental Legends.

CHEAP EDITIONS OF

Post 8vo, illustrated

BY Edmund ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Carr of Carrion. | Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.

POPULAR NOVELS.
boards, 2s. each.

By Besant and Rice, continued 
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage I ife.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Californian Stories.
Gabriel Convoy. | Flip

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.

The Shadow of the Sword.

A Child of Nature.

God and the Man.

The Martyrdom of Madeline.

Love Me for Ever.

BY MRS. BURNETT.

Surly Tim.

BY MRS. Loveth CAMERON.

Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian.
BY MACLAREN COBBAN.

The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.

The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonina. Miss or Mrs.?

Basil. The New Magda-

Hide and Seek. len.

The Dead Secret. The Frozen Deep.
Queen of Hearts. Law and the Lady.
My Miscellanies. TheTwo Destinies
Woman in White. Haunted Hotel.
The Moonstone, j The Fallen Leaves.
Man and Wife. JezebePsDaughter
Poor Miss Finch. The Black Robe.
BY MORTIMER COLLINS.

Sweet Anne Page.

Transmigration.

From Midnight to Midnight.

A Fight with Fortune.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY DUTTON COOK.
Leo. | Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY J. LEITII DERWENT.
Ou Lady of Tears.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz.
The Pickwick Papers.
Oliver Twist.
Nicholas Nickleby.
BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
A Point of Honour. | Archie Lovell.

BY M. BET HAM-EDWARDS.
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued 
BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy five Brooke Street.
BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. | Queen Cophetua.

One by One.
Prefaced by Sir H. Battle Free.
Pandurang Hari.

BY Pain FRISWELL.
One of Two.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capel Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. i Queen of the Mea-for

Lack of Gold. ! dow -

In Pastures Green
The Flower of the
Forest.

A Heart's Problem
The Braes of Yarrow.


What will the

World Say ?
In Honour Bound.
The Dead Heart.
In Love and War.
For the King.

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke.

BY JAMES GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY ANDREW HALLWAY.
Every-Day Papers.

BY LADY DVFFUS HARDY.
Paul Winter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.
BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. l Sebastian Stroke

Ellice Question. | Dust.
Prince Saroni's Wife.

BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER.
The House of Ray.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

3i

Cheap Popular Novels, continued 

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thorn croft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY HENRY KINGS LEY.
Oakshott Castle. | Number Seventeen

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord P
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love!"

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

by justin McCarthy, m.p.

Dear Lady Disdain.

The Waterdale Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

A Fair Saxon.

Linley Rochford.

Miss Misanthrope.

Donna Quixote.

The Comet of a Season.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.

Open ! Sesame !
A Harvest of Wild
Oats.

A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.
Written In Fire.

BY J. Waterman.
Half-a-dozen Daughters.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. Mr. Dorillion.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
A Life's Atonement.
A Model Father.
Joseph's Coat.
Coals of Fire.
By the Gate of the Sea.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY QUID A.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-maine.


Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.

TwoLittleWooden
Shoes.

Signa.

In a Winter City,

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbi.
In Maremma.

BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir massinger.


A Perfect Treasure.


Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.


Cecil's Tryst.
Clyffards of Clyffe

The FamilyScape-
grace.

Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Best of Husbands

Walter's Word.

Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her

Humorous Stories

Gwendolen's Har-like

Father, Like
Son.

A Marine Residence.


Married Beneath
Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, but
Won.

200 Reward.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlyon's Year.

A Confidential
Agent.

Some Private '
Views.

From Exile.

A Grape from a
Thorn.

For Cash Only.

vest.

BY EDGAR A. POE.
The Mystery of Marie Roget

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentina.

BY CHARLES READE.
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash.
Peg Wofflngton.
Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt.
Put Yourself in His Place.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister andTthe Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
Autobiography of a Thief.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater.
Readiana.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden Party.

BY F. W. ROB IS SON.
Women are Strange.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.
BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA.
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion in the Path.
Two Dreamers.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.
A Match In the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERNDALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON.
New Arabian Nights.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. I Proud Maisie.

The Violin Player.

BY, W. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BX WALTER THORN BURY.

Tales for the Marines.

BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE.

Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

The Way We Live Now.

The American Senator.

Frau Frohmann.

Marion Fay.

Kept in the Dark.
By FRANCES ELEANOR TROLLOPE

Like Ships Upon the Sea.

BY MARK TWA.
Tom Sawyer.
An Idle Excursion.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent

of Europe.
A Tramp Abroad.
The Stolen White Elephant.
BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.

Paul Ferrol.

Why Paul Ferrol Killed his Wife.

Fcap. 8vo, picture covers, Is. each.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret
Harte.

The Twins of Table Mountain. By
Bret Harte.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By
Julian Hawthorne.

Kathleen Mavourneen. By Author
of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."

Lindsay's Luck. By the Author ot
That Lass o' Lowrie's."

Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the
Author of "That Lass o' Lone'

Trooping with Crows. By Mrs.

PlRKIS.

The Professors Wife. By Leonard
Graham.

A Double Bond. By Linda Villari.

Esther's Glove. ByK.E. Fkancillon.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Jerrold.

J. OGDEN AND CO., PRINTERS, IJZ, ST. John street, e.c.

feSflfeS? **<



jvjfi<

-URBANA

3 0112 001506457

31=;

'<y

%



w

"".

jai

<:

kiS!

te'*



OF THE

University

Of 

j Hr A '/'jc

31 foul

Bv SARAH Tatler

AUTHOR OF ' THE BRIDE's PASS,' ' WHAT SHE CAME THROUGH,'
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. IL

CHATTO

Mention
AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY


[A// rights reserved]

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER PAGE

XIII. THE CO:VBIOX ENEMY - - - - 1

XIV. ATHOLE MURRAY COMES TO THE RESCUE 28
 XV. YOUNG TAM'S PARTNERSHIP  GAY DOINGS 42

XVI. THE Dinner-party . . - - 65

XVII. THE COMMON TEMPTATION, WITH ITS

USUAL ACCOMPANIMENT - - - 97

XVIII. DR. PETER AND ATHOLE MURRAY MAKE

THEIR STAND 117

XIX. SIR HUGO "WILLOUGHBY ENTERS THE
LISTS,' AND IS CAPTIVATED BY THE
MERCHANT PRINCES - - - - 139

XX. 'A YOUNG THING JUST COME FRAE HER

MAMMY' 160

CHAPTER PACK

XXI. SIR HUGO DRAWN BY ' LE GRAND

SIMPLE' 200

XXII. RORY OF THE SHELTIES COME ALIVE AGAIN IVd
Xxii THE CONTENTS OF THE KNAPSACK - 235
XXn'. THE DEATH OF FENTON OF STRATHDIVIE - 25.j
XXV. STRATHDIVIE - - - - - 282
XXVI. THE READING OF THE WILL  JE.VN MAC-cannon's
TOCHER 300

CHAPTER XIII.

THE COMMON ENEMY.

That winter there was one of the most
terrible outbreaks of typhoid fever, which
had stricken Tory of the Shelties, ever
known in St. Mungo's City. The sickness
extended to the suburbs, and sent long
arms into the country, reaching to trio
Aytoun Water, which was so valuable an
auxiliary of Drysdale Haugli, creeping up
and down its banks in foul malaria, which
prostrated alike strong men and weak
women, robbed families of their breadwinners,
or slew the strapping lads and

VOL. II. 21

jjlooiiiing lasses "svlio were the hope and
pride of elderly fathers and mothers.

There was no doubt the first signs of
the plague had made their appearance after
the excesses and exposure of the Fair week.
There had been no spell of short hours and
starvation wages to induce such a low state
of body and mind as to form a fit foundation
for the mischief. But whatever its
origin, it soon extended far beyond the
defaulters whose deeds had wrought their
doom. The fever, after a certain course,
appeared to strike impartially the sober, industrious
workman, and the idle, dissipated
hanger-on for a day's ' turn ' to relieve his
most pressing wants. The evil rose in the
scale of society, and fell upon the well-to-do,
scattering sickness and distress among
the rich, while naturally' its vantage-ground
was the quarters of the poor. It close to
them as to its fitting haunts, and, like a
cowardly assailant, did deadliest injury
where there was least power of resistance.

It was a busy time for Dr. Peter and
Atliole Murray, who acted from the first asher
father's indefatigable assistant, feeling
no fear to go on the call of duty where
he went with his life in his hand, day and
night.

Auld Tam took the greatest interest in
the nature of the outbreak, and showed not
the slightest shrinking from a contact with
which, indeed, he had been familiar in his
early days. It was a mortification to him
to discover that his best cottages were not
spared ; but he fell back on the comfort
that there the remedies were applied with
the least difficulty and the greatest average
of success.

But the tug of war came when the
epidemic raged so fiercely in the worst
Glasgow slums that it roused an apathetic
public. Tam Drysdale was not the man
to stand and gape and groan or merely
moralize or sermonize over the calamity,
far less was he the heartless egotist who

212

would employ his resources to flee from the
foe, leaving a helpless multitude in its
clutches. He was ready to fight it hand
to hand, as he had fought all the early
obstacles in his career. He was not only'
foremost in appointing and attending meetings
of men in high enough places to cope
with sanitary mischief; but when a house-those
visitation was started, he, who might
have pleaded that his interests were at
Drysdale Haugh, was one of the first to put
down his name as a visitor in the darkest
places of the city. His strong firm step
was the readiest to enter the infected dwellings,
where there was not a breath of air
that was not heavy with poison. He was
known to pull off his coat, on an emergency,
and carry a patient  a man mad with delirium,
whom it would have required two
ordinary men to master  on his back from
one room to another ; and where he found
none save exhausted, half-distracted women
to watch the sick, he sometimes sent the

watchers to bed, and took their vigil till
some other good Samaritan relieved him in
turn.

Every morning the two Eppies  not to
be deceived, knowing too well the expeditions
on which auld Tam was bent  clung
to him at parting with prayers and tears.
He put the woman and the girl gently from
him, and went his way; and on his return,
for the first time in his life, he would not
permit them to hang about him till he had
passed through such processes of bathing
and changing his clothes as should ensure
his wife and daughter's safety. His obduracy
would have half-broken their hearts
if the stayers at home had not been encouraged
to be as busy as bees in Tam's
absence, concocting such stores of jellies
and soups, and manufacturing such loads of
sick-room clothes, as not the most accomplished
cook and housekeeper in the world
could have achieved single-handed  even
if she had condescended to employ her

talents day after day  not for the diningroom
or the linen-presses at Drysdale Hall,
but for afflicted sections of the Gallowgate
and the Sautmarket.

The strait was so great that everybody
with time and means and a heart to feel
was called into requisition. Neither did
Claribel Drysdale refuse to obey the call,
but she worked in the ranks of Lady
Semple, to whom she was an available
auxiliary, while the two Eppies were sufficient
for themselves at home.

The first thing that staggered Tam Drysdale
was stumbling on his son Tam engaged
in the same work as himself. The father's
hale colour sensibly paled, and a troubled
look came into his eyes.

What are you seeking here, Tam T he
asked almost roughly. ' This is not a
place for a student fellow like you. \o\\
are not used to the ways of the poor folk ;
you'll only add to the trouble if you come
to grief; you can do no possible good. Go

home to your books, but take care you milo
not come near your mother and sisters in
that coat and these breeks.'

Young Tarn looked his father more fully
in the face than he had done for some time,
with more of an answering challenge in the
brown eyes which were so like his mother's
in tint, and yet had his father's determined
glance. There was no sullenness in Tam's
face at this moment  rather a sense of
grim amusement and something that might
have stood for fellow-feeling.

I'm not such a mere bookworm as you
think me, sir. How should I not know
the ways of the working people, among
whom I have dwelt all my life ? I'll not
come to grief any more than you will.
What are ijoa seeking here, may I ask,
father ?'

Don't talk nonsense, Tam,' said his
father testily ;  you know it is my place,
as the maister of a public work, to see into
the condition of the people, both here and

fit Drysdale Hjiuj. on an occasion like the
present. Forbye, I am familiar with the
situation. I mind the last had outbreak of
the silver. It was when I was in my
apprenticeship and staying with my uncle
Geordie. There were five in the loose laid
down with it. My cousin Nancy deed,
poor lass ! and there was nobody to look
after Sandy during the night, and keep him
from louping over the windy, but me. I
had a regular training to such scenes.'

Young Tam hesitated for a moment.

I have not quite understood hitherto
vhat duties a master's position is supposed
to include,' he said at last, a little stiffly;
 but if I am ever to undertake them, I
should say my training had better begin.'

Auld Tarn's whole aspect brightened indescribably.


plenty of time for that,' he said gruffly,
hut heartily, * and your experience should
come by decrees, Tam, not in a dunt
[sudden blow], as it comes to working lads

"bred hardily as I was, and called to face
the best and the worst all round from the
beginning. It is not easy, but it is in the
day's work  part of their lives. Besides,
they say,' added Tarn hastily, 'the silver
is more catching for the young than for the
aiild.'

You're not old,' said young Tarn hastily,
with a quick sharp denial that sent a
glow through his progenitor's veins. ' You
are hardly middle-aged. People should
call stages of existence by their right
names.'

Anyway, I'm auld Tarn when you are to
the fore,' said his father, much as he would
have spoken to his daughter Eppie, * and
it is right the young should be spared to
take the place of the auld.'

It is nothing of the kind,' answered
young Tam doggedly. ' Take your place !
very likely. I wonder which would be most
missed. You know very well, father, you
could ill be spared. You ought not to run

risks like these, Avliile it does not matter fora
fellow like me.'

Lad, you are tempting the Almighty !'
cried Tam almost fiercely; ' are you so left
to course' as to think you could well be
spared by your neither  and me T he ended
with a gulp of the words, and a grip as of
iron of young Tam's shoulder. * But it is
all nonsense !' he said, putting force upon
himself the next moment.  We've got a
trick of disagreeing ; that is what it is.'

And I am afraid there is little prospect
of our doing anything else, if the alternative
is my keeping out of Glasgow, and
your going on as you have been doing for
the last ten days,' retorted young Tam,
defying his father openly.

And auld Tam gave in with the moisture
in his eyes, and his hand still on his son's
shoulder.

Well, well,' he said, ' have it your own
way, laddie ; you've always l)een as kittle

[ticklish] to deal with as a woman, Tam 

far worse than your sisters. But if we sail
in the same boat for once, it will be some
sma' comfort.'

The sailing in the same boat through a
crisis of life and death meant from this
moment a certain alteration of tone between
father and son  a certain fraternization  
temporary, and only on one point as yet,
but never entirely lost sight of in their
subsequent differences, when young Tarn
was born to object, and auld Tam hated
to be contradicted. For one thing, they
saw a good deal of each other during the
next week or two  more than they had
seen since young Tam was a schoolboy.
For another, it was understood between
them that there was a probability of auld
Tam's gaining the desire of his heart, by
his son's becoming, under whatever variety
of opinion, his father's partner and successor.


Some of the fever cases in Glasgow were
of the most virulent kind. Occasionally

they assumed the form of the vorst sewer-poisoning,
from which there was hardly a
chance of escape. The inspector of nuisances
had neglected his duty. A man
and wife  a helpless, handless, poverty-stricken,
though honest and sober couple 
had been suffered to live, with a large family,
in a house which was not fit for a pigsty.
First one child sickened, and then another,
and died in the briefest interval of time, so
that four little bodies were carried away in
one hearse, and the expense even of a combined
funeral threatened to add starvation
to the other pangs of the living. The skin
of the last child attacked took green and
livid hues before the breath went out of his
body.

Auld Tam bent his brows sternly, and
swore it was social murder. He half conceived
the idea, if he lived and continued
to prosper, of doing something more than
found a family, and brint: Drvsdale Hau-h
to perfection something to atone for the

neglect by the better endowed and better
informed of the less qualified and more
ignorant  something in which young Tarn
might be with him heart and soul, till
Glasgow should speak of the father and
son, as, indeed, they were speaking of them
at this moment, though auld Tam paid no
heed to it.

The fever, as it raged, was turning up in
the more respectable quarters, in the old
squares and streets, where the houses were
good and spacious, but the drains had been
little thought of, and the sun seldom shone.

Young Tam Drysdale saw his father at
the office one afternoon, and remarked with
consternation that he looked as if he had
received a shock to his whole system  at
the same time he was deliberately delaying
the ordinary hour of his return to Drysdale
Hall. He pooh-poohed the idea of anything
wrong with him physically, or of rest
being desirable, at the very moment that he
vas moving about in a perturbed manner,

showing signs of trouble and perplexity in
every line of his usually strong, sagacious
face.

Shut the door, Tarn ; I do not want
those fellies out there to catch a sough
[murmur] of what I have got to sa'.
Yes, I have come across something that
has grieved me. Grieved is not the word.
Gude Lord ! it is enough to shake a man's
faith in the established order of things.
What would your mither think ? Her that
was wont to stand in fear and trembling
before such gentlefolks. But, there, she
said, only the other day, that it was a
mystery we should be so weel aff in the
world's guides, and others as gude  maybe
a handle better (she's a humble lass, your
mither)  brought to want what they had
been bred to from their cradles. Well, well,
it comes to this, I had speech with one of
the doctors, and he mentioned there were
cases of fever in St. Mungo's Square.'

So I heard,' said young Tarn.

One of them was an aulcl Miss ,
and as I'm a living man, Tarn,
he added that he did not believe the eddies
had enough to eat, though they put the
best face on it to him ; and it was a delicate
matter to propose to get parish or any other
relief for them. The Lord preserve us!
the auld Mackinnons  Gavin Mackinnon's
aunties, come of the Virginian Mackinnons
to be in want of food, very likely of
clothing ! Is the end of the world come
upon us ? I mind of them being about
Drysdale Hall when their nephew had it  -
no very weel-fared [handsome], but gallant,
portly gabby [talkative] eddies, as
they had a gude title to be, since they were
real educate eddies for generations back 
none of your upstarts that do not know
their finger from their thoomb, while they
wear silks and velvets. I mind ane of them
cracked [talked] like a pen-gun  on things
she did not ken muckle about, I must confess,
but she had the gift of conversation fora'

that ; and another  an alder woman
than mother is now  played the pianny
better than Clary can do, at a dance and
supper that Mackinnon gave the men before
trips down the water were the order of the
day ; and now to say that the auld eddies
have come to want  Tam, it's sickening !'

Young Tam had not his father's keen
susceptibilities where real ladies and gentlemen
were concerned. His mind went off
on another tack.

They must be relations of lackinnon
who stays so often at Semple Barns. Why
does he not look after his people ? I suppose
sou would call him a real gentleman T
suggested Tam, somewhat sardonically.

It is a burning; shame to him!' auld
Tam swore stoutly, ' tliougli a young officier
has not much to spare. Maybe the
lad does help them, and tlicy are ill managers,
as these gentry often are. But that
is neither here nor there. Something must
be done, I could not sleep in my bed

with siicli a burden on my mind ; and if
your mither were to hear of it, she would
not break bread for the next twas' hours.
I want you to come along and call with
me, Tam. We can pass ourselves off assent
on an inspection among great and small
throughout the town. The eddies cannot
be going much about to hear the story contradicted.
We can see and judge for ourselves.
And it may be possible to put ina
word about the superiority of country provisions,
and whether the Miss Mackinnons
would do me the honour to accept a specimen
of meat and dairy produce and vegetables
and fruit from Drysdale Hall. I
think it might be managed in that ways
and the favour could be repeated. I have
been turning over in my mind whether I
could not get up an auld debt to Gauvin
Mackinnon, but sic a lee would stick in my
throat ; then the young lad Mackinnon
might interfere, and detection would be
awkward.'

VOL. II. 22

t }

 Upon my word, father, I never knew
you were so accomplished a deceiver,' said
young Tam, grave as he was, unable to keep
from laughter. * I never thought to pay
visits with you under false pretences.'

Do not gibe, Tam,' said his father, as
solemnly as he would have rebuked a jest
at a death-bed. ' This is not a subject for
gibing. You heard what the doctor said 
it is a most delicate matter to ask eddies to
take anything save a parcel of idle compliments
from you. If stratagems are ever
allowable, it must be here.'

Indeed, death was very near, in more
shapes than one, to the old stripped house
in St. Mungo's Square. It was MissBethia,
the youngest and the most able-bodied sister
who had been smitten, and when she was
looming [swimming] for her life,' as Miss
Janet admitted brokenly, the chief source
of livelihood for the other sisters was
withdrawn from them. The moment the
disease had declared itself, miss Janet had

written to her grand-nephew, forbidding
him to come near the house on account of
the infection. He broke through the prohibition,
but he never got beyond the front-door,
where Miss Janet consented to parley
with him, solely on condition that he held
his handkerchief to his mouth and did not
cross the doorstep.

Such aid as the Lieutenant sent consisted
of trifling delicacies, while, alas ! there was
dismal lack of the commonest necessaries.

While Miss Bethia was at the worst, it
seemed that her sisters needed little more
food than sufficed for the sick-room. They
lived upon their anxiety  hope and fear
acted as stimulants to them. It was when
the patient had got the turn, and required
more nourishment than milk and beef-tea,
that the exhausted state of Miss Janet and
Miss Mackinnon began to show itself plainly
But as people can grow accustomed to abstinence
up to a certain point, and cease to feci
the cravings of appetite, after they have

222

failed by degrees to be appeased in anything
save the most partial and perfunctory
manner, so the feeble, shaky, but still
dauntless scarecrow, Miss Janet, preserved
an attitude of heroic stoicism throughout
her interview with the two Crystals.

Miss Janet had two motives to nerve her
to endure to the end. She had never quite
forgiven Tarn Drysdale for having succeeded
\\vx late nephew at Drysdale Haugh ; therefore
he was the last man in Glasgow to
whom she would have consented to be beholden
in the direst extremity. It made no
difference that the grudge was groundless
and utterly unreasonable. That was one
link in the argument ; another, and still
stronger, turned on the fact that if she
ever consented to waive her displeasure and
accept the overtures of the Drysdales, it
must be, as before, on the plea of a marriage,
and she was not going to spoil Eneas's
chances by betraying the poverty of the
land in St. Mungo's Spare. No ; there

were still some potatoes and oatmeal iu
the larder, and Miss Janet felt as independent
as Andrew Marvel with his mutton-bone.


Miss Bethia might have behaved differently,
when she lay on her bed, weakly
crying, with the stirrings of new life in
her, and the promptings of a] child's fresh
hunger, never satisfied ; but she would
have been the first to feel ashamed of lier
infirmity when strength was restored to
her.

TamDrysdale was nearer to breaking down
in his manliness than he had been in the
whole course of his life, when he sat in the
bare wreck of a room, without a fire, on the
chill autumn day, waiting for the appearance
of one of the ladies. He kept muttering,
half under his breath, ' Gude Lord, Tam !'
and, ' Have the eddies come to this ?'
He ' thought shame ' when he recalled the
prized grandeur and substantial comforts
and luxuries of Drysdale Hall. He rubbed

this forehead, and screwed up his courage
for the carrying out of his mission.

When Miss Janet entered, Tarn's heart
was wrung anew. He woukl never have
known his okl acquaintance  the gallant,
portly lady of the past  in the fallen away,
haggard woman in the old-fashioned garments,
that looked so much too wide, they
appeared to flap about the whig-boned figure ;
only the remembered ' shabbiness ' of the
lady remained as a present trait. For if
Miss Janet did not receive her late nephew's
former servant with  backs and bows and
wreathed smiles,' she treated him and his
son with a kind of brow-beating condescension.
She made her explanations with
wonderfully little cutting short of her long
tongue, considering the small amount of
fuel in the form of nourishment it and
the rest of her bodily powers had to work
upon. But the voice was at once weaker
and shriller in what \mhrc it possessed,
and a little faltering occasionally, wliilo a

tremulous movement passed from time to
time over the hard-favoured features ; and
the worn hands, which she had not been
sufficiently mistress of herself to encase in
gloves, shook beyond the power of control
as they lay in her lap.

Miss Janet said she and her elder sister
had been sitting in poor Betheye's room,
and had dispensed with a fire elsewhere.
Betheye was doing very well now. Oh
yes ! she had every advantage  a good
doctor, and her grand-nephew the Lieutenant
was constantly sending fruit, and what not.
They  the Miss Mackinnons  felt for the
poor sufferers from the sickness. It was
quite right a fund should be raised for
them. She would look about, when she
had time, and see if she could find any
odds and ends that might be useful. She
spoke as if she and hers were as far
removed as the Drysdales themselves
from the deprivations and dependence of
poverty.

Young Tarn had never seen his father so
deferential as to this * genteel, half-crazy
object of charity,' the younger man was
guilty of calling poor Miss Janet. It Alas
with absolute trepidation and a doubly-respectful
* Miss Mackinnon, mem that
auld Tarn delivered the sentence he had
laboriously composed of the excellent unadulterated
character of all articles of food
in the country, and the comfort to be
derived from availing one's self of them
in an unhealthy season. This was the
prelude to a petition that Miss Janet won hi
permit him to send her * a basket from
Drysdale Haugh which might remind her
of '* auld Ian Of syne." '

Perhaps the reference was not very
happy; anyhow, Miss Janet gave a quavering
laugh, and told him lie was greatly
obliged, but he must not trouble himself.
The town and the country were brought so
near now, the" were equally well supplied
with victuals of every description ; she and

her sisters had all they could wish. She
did not think even the Strathdivie curds
and cream, new-laid eggs, and stubble
chickens could taste better than what could
be found in Buchanan Street. She remembered
hearing that her grandfather would
always have fowls from Strathdivie when
he wanted cockie-leekie or hen-broth, bat
farm broke [goods] were rife everywhere
now. She would oiler the gentlemen wine
(there was only a thimbleful in Miss
Bethia's room), but she understood from her
grand-nephew that it was not the fashion
now to taste anything after luncheon ; so
Miss Janet, with flying colours, dismissed
the intruders. Neither father nor son was
in the least degree deceived, and young
Tam, at this stage, felt as little inclined to
gibe as his father.

The pair ledd} is reduced to skin and
bane,' said auld Tam, with a groan. * I
do not believe she has had butcher meat,
or any other support than a bit bread and

a blasli [watery mixture] of tea, for a
month. If we do not get the better of her
quickly, she'll be past the reach of mortal
man. And there are three of them  one
just out of the silver  in the same plight.
Gude Lord ! something must be done.
Shall we drive to the Barracks and break
the story to that careless puppy of an
off slier ? It is for him to interfere, and
not suffer his aunties, who brought him upto
perish, though he has to force meat and
drink down their craigs [throats.'

Certainly, if no other resource could be
hit upon, Eneas Mackinnon must be appealed
to, however painful the appeal to
both parties.

But young Tam had another idea which
might obviate the disagreeable step, for the
present at least.

The Mackinnons and Murrayss were old
acquaintances when Gavin Mackinnon and
Dr. Peter's father were partners. Send in
Dr. Peter to see the hulicb, as a piece of

attention from an old friend. That will
save them the expense of father medical
attendance, if it does nothing else, and he
will make his observation and deliver his
report

Auld Tam was only too thankful to take
his son's advice, and secure another coadjutor
in the ticklish business.

ATHOLE MURRAY COMES TO THE RESCUE.

Dr. Peter, in the middle of his work, responded
readily to the call. It proved that
he had not only known the Mackinnons in
his youth ; he had always kept up some
intercourse with them, and Thole had been
in the habit of calling in St. Mungo's
Square occasionally. He looked grave and
resolute when he saw Tarn Drysdale by appointment
afterwards. Yes, the poor old
ladies were at the wall, sure enough ; and
even viewing the matter in a professional
light alone, something must be done immediately,
or there would be more than
one death to answer for. But he had his
proposal ready. Thole must take up her

abode in St. Mimgo's Square for a week or
two, till Miss Betliia was able to be removed
for change of air to Barley Riggs.
Only a woman could cope wdtli the circumstances
where women were concerned, and
he had paved the way for his daughter's
arrival. He had told Miss Janet that he
wanted a little change for Atliole, asked if
she  Miss Janet  would take in the girl
for a while, and hinted at a board. The
old lady, with her instincts of hospitality,
her necessities, and her pride, had been too
bewildered to make any decided opposition.
Now he would not stand on further ceremony
; he would act as if he took Miss
Janet's and her sister's consent for granted,
despatch Thole the next morning, and
when she was once in the house, it would
be hard for the Miss Mackinnons to turn
her out. Thole would bring the sinews of
war, and would propose to undertake the
housekeeping on the plea of relieving the
sister-nurses, who were too weak and

worn out to make any effectual resistance.


Auld Tarn as he listened, stared fixedly
at Dr. Peter.

But, man, she's your doctor, your last-hame
lassie, the very apple of your eye,' he
remonstrated, with wonder and rising vehemence.
' I ken what Tam and little Eppie
and Clary are to me, and I have their mither

 that I sometimes say is worth them all 
while you have only this lassie left at hame ;
and you are sending her where the fever has
just been, and where a great burden of responsibility,
work, and fatigue will fall upon
her young shoulders.'

I know,' said Dr. Peter, bowing his head
as if sealing a bargain. ' But did you
never think, Tam, that the way to keep a
thing you prized was to give it freely in the
name of God and your nciiihliour? I never
would shut Thole out of the way of the
fever, when she could be of use. She had
no fear, and I believed I could take care

that she ran little more risk than if she had
stayed locked up in the parlour at Barley
Eiggs. I was right, and you'll see I'll he
right again. You may trust me to take care
of Athie/ he ended, with a smile.

But what if you should he mistaken,
Peter ?' Tam felt hound to press the point.
If an accident were to happen, if you were
to lose your lassie by her foolhardy exposure'?


There is no foolhardiness, and there is
very little exposure,' maintained Dr. Peter
unflinchingly ; ' not more than happens to
every doctor and nurse  indeed less, for I
shall he always in the background, ready to
step in at the first note of warning. And
if it were to come to the worst, Tam,' he
said slowly, with a peculiar light coming
into his eyes,  what then ? It would he
the will of God. It is given to every man
and woman once to die ; nothing  not all
the love and care in the world  can prevent
the execution of that sentence. And can

death come better to any man or woman
than in the way of duty ? I know what is
in 3onr mind  it is not of the one to he
taken, but of the one left behind, you are
thinking. Well, what is to come of somebody's
journey might be shorter, as the road
would be darker  that is all  not so very
much dien the day is far spent and its work
three-fourths done.'

Peter Murray, I honour you with all my
heart,' said auld Tam warmly ; ' but I could
not doit, man  I could  not  do it. It is
with no will of mine that young Tam is in
the thick of this fray ; but he's man-gro'n,
with a mind of his own. I'll not says that
it has been all loss that I've seen a bit of
the lad's mind lately, and we've foclit together
against the silver  young Tam and
me ; only the price might have been over
heavy, God help me ! and I could not have
sent him into the battle, or even given my
consent to his entering the ranks, if he had
condescended to ask it. Na, not though it

is the first time since I was a wean that
I've had a glimmering that the and Bible
story of Abraham's offering up his son, his
only son Isaac, is more than an allegory ora
prophecy, and holds a lesson for men and
fathers

Auld Tam continued sorely exercised in
his mind about the Miss Mackinnons, with
Dr. Peter's lassie Atliole in the midst of
them. To him she was a slip of a young
lady whom he knew best as a clever pattern-designer,
a bit gentlewoman, with her inalienable
rights as such, though neither
bonnie nor braw, only as bright as a mavis
thrush, as quick as a needle, the charm of
whose womanly blitheness and lively wit
Tam himself had felt, while he was well
aware she was the light of Barley Biggs, the
delight of her father's heart. In spite of
what Dr. Peter had said, was this a creature
to put in the breach, to send to share the
privations she was seeking to lighten, and
to brave the hardly overcome fever ?

VOL. II. 23

Tarn was so troubled in his mind that he
forgot to watch the effect of the news on
his son. He neither saw how young Tarn
set his teeth, nor how he reared his head,
and his loss of colour was succeeded hy a
warm glow.

Sure enough, if any harm happened to
Thole Murray, it might be laid at the door
of the two Tam Drysdales. Who was it
that had summoned her father on the scene,
and offered a temptation to Dr. Peter's
Quixotic philanthropy ?

Both auld and young Tam took it upon
them to go as far as Eneas Mackinnon
had gone  indeed, to go farther, to enter
the hall of the house in St. Mungo's
Square, and solicit speech with Miss
Murray, to hear how her father's scheme
was prospering.

The first time that Thole came down to
the two men, who were together, as she
spoke to them the tears ran down her cheeks
without her knowing it, and she was half

laughing, half crying, though she was not
naturally hysterical.

Oh/ she said, *I could not have imagined
anything like it. If I had guessed a hundredth
part of it, I must have got the better of
Miss Janet's scruples long ago, though I had
let meat and drink down the chimney, as
the barber and his wife disposed of the body
of the Caliph's favourite in the * Arabian
Nights ; " I would have come after it was
dark, rung the bell, pushed in the basket,
and run away. Maybe Miss Janet would
have thought the angels or Elijah's ravens
had come to her aid. If the Miss Mackintosh
had advertised for the owner of that
basket they would have been clever if they
had found her. Now, we are all right,
thank you  at least, we are fast getting
right. I open the door, for of course I am
the youngest, and the stairs try me least,
and I take in all the parcels. If there is
anything very suspicious, even for my extensive
requirements, I carry it to my room,

232

and Miss Janet is too much of a lady to
meddle with what I do there. My father
fills the pockets of his overcoat, and has
always to speak to me, in private. I can't
tell if Miss Janet suspects  I think she must
but her endurance had been stretched to
the last thread, and now she submits and
ignores my manoeuvres. She is so tired
that when she has once given in she can't
rally her forces for some time. Indeed, my
father feared she would either have a bad
illness or sink from sheer exhaustion for the
first ten days after I came. Oh yes, shea
great deal better, and Miss Mackinnon is
pretty well  I am sure Miss Janet must
have managed to give her the larger share
of the little that was going  and Miss
Betliia is progressing favourably. She is by
far the most manageable. She and I have
quite little feasts in her room.'

I am most happy to hear it,' said auld
Tarn, with enthusiasm.

But, oh ! the gaunt emptiness, the

gnawing want, the fainting hopelessness
that must have been in this house !' cried
Thole passionately. ' The mice had deserted
it months before, Miss Bethia told
me. But Miss Janet and I never speak of
it. We winked at it even when I was
labouring, like a well-disposed brownie, to
fill the cupboards as if they had never
been bare, without anybody witnessing the
performance, and to make a great display of
my accomplishments in cooking  the fruits
of my last lessons at the cooking school.
But I never saw anything at all like what I
beheld first, in the most miserable cottage
at Drysdale Haugli.'

I sincerely trust you have not suffered
yourself. Miss Murray, mem, from your
great pity and kindness,' said auld Tam,
standing with his hat in his hand before
her.

I ! ' she cried incredulously ; ' how should
I suffer ? It was a bit of an adventure forme,
and I had " a piece in my pocket " all

the time. You know, Mr. Drysdale, the
task was to get okler people, more in need
of it, to halve my piece with me.'

Thole had recovered her composure by
the time the next visit of inquiry was mater
and her accounts grew always cheerier and
cheerier, till she began to laugh quite
naturally at young Tarn coming alone to
ask for the three Miss Mackinnons, and to
affront him by making game of his odd
contributions to the larder in St. Mungo's
Square, on the whole rather more unsuitable
than the Lieutenant's gifts to his aunts.
It is not the same as a picnic, Mr. Tom
she was at the trouble of explaining to
him.

At last she nearly quarrelled with him by
flatly refusing to take it upon her to have
anything to do with scalloped oysters and
preserved ginger. The Miss Mackinnons
were prettysure to disapprove of both them
and their donor, and she must also decline
wasting another fraction of her valuable

time in telling him that Miss Bethia's convalescence
was an established fact, and that
there was nothing the matter with any other
person in the house, while it was too absurd
that he should constitute himself a purveyor
for their wants. He had better go and shop
with his sisters. Oh ! she did not despise
shopping  she was quite fond of it, when
she had plenty of time and money, and
nothing better to do. If he did not attend
the Nasmyths' ball  the first ball of the
season  the more fool ho ; the loss would be
his, for she could not flatter him that one
gentleman would be missed, and balls were
excellent things to those who were not
above dancing and making themselves agreeable
and useful.

That is all she thinks me fit for,' he told
himself in a rage ;  she regards me as a
perfect humbug. When she is so grossly
unfair I wonder I trouble myself what she
thinks : though there is nobody like her that
I know, nobody so good to everybody except

me, so brave and bright  but I will let her
alone in future

Miss Bethia was not hard to persuade to
try a change of air at Barley Biggs, and
her sisters where induced to accompany her.
During their absence as much of the old
furniture of the house in St. Mungo's Square
as could be hunted up was restored to it,
without a word said on either side, until its
absence appeared to have been part of an
uncomfortable dream.

The next step was to make Miss Janet
let her name, and the names of her sisters,
be put, in strictest privacy, on the list of
impoverished better-class families helped
b} a certain fund. She was led to do so
by being shown the signature of her grandfather
among those of the early subscribers
to the fund, and by the facts being impressed
upon her that she was only taking
back what he had given. Miss Bethia was,
as Thole Murray had found, by far the
mont pliable of the sisters, and she lent

herself half willingly, half with fear and
trembling for what Miss Janet would say
if she ever found out the unbecoming traffic,
to sundry wiles and devices of Thole's, as
the instrument appointed by her father and
Tam Drysdale for lending the Miss Mac-cannons
substantial assistance. At the
same time Miss Bethia had never received
so many or such well-paid orders for work ;
altogether, there was hope of the Miss
Mackinnons keeping soul and body together
till a share of Strathdivie fell to their lot.

YOUNG TAM's partnership GAY DOINGS.

In the course of the winter the terms of
partnership) were settled and signed between
young Tarn and his father, to the immense
private satisfaction of the latter, and the
innocent jubilation of Mrs. Drysdale. The
word ' Son ' was added to the halting inscription
on the office door. Young Tarn
began not only to relinquish the college
lectures and learned societies to which he
had been addicted, in order to stick to the
business he had entered upon  he insisted
on going back to the beginning and passing
through all the preparatory drudgery from
which he had till now stood aloof. He
wanted to acquire a thorough acquaintance

with every stage and department of the
business of which he had elected to be
one of the masters.

Auld Tam's judgment went with his son's
decision. He was in his heart pleased
with young Tam, and proud of him for his
resolution. The senior partner rejoiced to
see the junior in an office coat, or even ina
dyer's suit, more than he had ever
magnified him in a dress-coat among his
peers; yet the father would have willingly
spared the son any ordeal that could well
have been avoided. He would have treated
young Tam's early reluctance to become a
dyer and calico-printer, now that it was
overcome, with the greatest delicacy,
dealing gently with the deficiencies which
were likely to be its fruit. Auld Tam
dreaded the young man's becoming soured
at the outset, and turned beyond recall, in
his heart, against the business, though his
father had enough confidence in him to
feel sure that lie would keep his word and

the terms of the partnership. He would
be nominally ' son ' in a business sense,
though he had lost all save a pocket
interest in the matter, and though he
ended by being the veriest of sleeping
partners raised up to serve as a tool for
rogues.

But young Tarn doggedly declined to
suffer himself to be spared. He was one
of the few people who, in the course of
every fault and blunder they commit, when
punishment is going, choose to punish
themselves first and most, and derive a
grisly solace from such atonement as can
be afforded by the hard lines the culprits
compel themselves to endure. But it is *
not a pleasant process to go against the
grain, and swallow huge mouthfuls of irksome
details in a cause that is apt to look
like nothing better than mercenary enterprise.
The worst does not turn to the
best, to the brave, at once.

There are many things to be taken into

consideration. There is a natural reaction
from the exalted mood in which a man
gives up his will and makes what appears
to him a signal sacrifice, which includes
the subsequent depression, mortification,
and irritation with which he finds he has
not counted all the cost, and is hardly equal
to the payment of the pound of flesh.
Hitches are certain to occur in late concessions.
Among the hitches are the
lurking jealousy and latent malice of
subordinates who have been disappointed in
little schemes of their own, and do not want
a new master.

In addition, young Tam Drysdale's
temper was not of the best ; and although
he was perfectly sincere in what he was
about, he did not accomplish his transformation
into a man of business altogether
gracefully or graciously. It was far from
being uninterruptedly smooth water in the
Glasgow office, and at the Drysdale Haugh
vats and bleaching-greens in those days ;

yet auk Tarn was wonderfully forbearing,
and young Tarn, having once given in his
adherence to his natural destination,
practically kicked against it no more.

There was a considerable amount of gaiety
this year, as there always was in winter
among the young people of the Drysdale
set, notably among Clary's peculiar allies.
Dick Semple was much at home, and his
friend Eneas Mackinnon was frequently
with him. Lady Semple had a couple of
young ladies, English cousins, paying her a
visit, whom she turned over as much as
possible to Clary Drysdale, because her
ladyship was a busy woman, and because
she honestly believed there was a freemasonry
between young people which
rendered them the best company for each
other. Yet there was nothing more conspicuous
about Lady Semple  that is to
the members of the mercantile class on
whom she bestowed her countenance  than
the perennial youthfulness of her character.

It was not juvenility of dress and make up,
for she happened to be a woman who cared
little for such things. She said it was
impossible for her to compete with the
Glasgow ladies. She never failed to call
the most dubious specimens on her visiting
list ' ladies '  the mere circumstance of
their knowing her gave them rank so far.
She feared to enter the lists, she declared,
not only in skunk and silver fox, Brussels
point and cut velvet, but in French and
Court millinery. Her old gowns were
comfortable ; and her maid fitted her as
well as she cared to be fitted. Lady
Semple wore her own grey hair, though
fie was not more than midway between
fifty and sixty. She had never either
powdered or painted in her life. She
patronized bonnets which, whatever else
they did in the way of becoming her,
covered her head. Her mantles were not
tight to her figure, neat and light as that
figure still was for her age. Her nearest

approach to full dress did not go beyond
dinner-dress, and failed to expose her neck
and arms.

When a young woman, Lady Semple
had married a man much older than herself.
She had always been perfectly respectable,
without the smallest taste for the platonic
admiration of a circle of idle young men,
which might explain what even Claribel
Drysdale, who permitted a great deal to
Lady Semple, called her well-bred dowdiness.
No competition with other women,
no attempt to attract the attention of any
man save her husband, who gave her carte
blanche to dress as she liked, for that matter
hardly noticed how she dressed, accounted
for a good deal.

But whatever youthfulness of person
Lady Semple had early lost, her mind remained
as buoyant, versatile, and superficial
as ever. The influence of her husband,
by this time far advanced in age, had not
quenched those attributes in the least. She

was always starting new pursuits, new
systems, new studies, to this day never
doing anything more than skim over the
surface, while she hopped from one to the
other in a fashion most distracting to those
who were not accustomed to her middle-aged
schoolgirl ways.

All the same. Lady Semple was convinced
that she had very little to say to the
Vaughan girls  that, having no daughters
of her own, she had well-nigh forgotten
what young women would care for. On the
other hand, their constant dependence on
her for entertainment would seriously
interfere with her music-practising according
to the last Stuttgart method, the
hangings she was working in appUqiic, her
cottage lectures, her acquisition of dates by
an original method never thought of before.
Claribel Drysdale, who was always disengaged
enough to help her friends, would
know what the Yaughans would like.

Clary was nothing loth to become, with
VOL. II. 24

o SAINT Mungo CITY.

Dick Sent pie's and Mr. Mackinnon'8 help,
Lady Semple's representative. Miss Drys-hale
was quite willing to introduce the Miss
Yaughans to everything and everybody they
might care to know, in a sphere rather
different from that to which the daughters
of a well-connected but poor English vicar
had been hitherto accustomed. Clary Vvas
ready to get up riding-parties, skating-parties,
walking - parties, singing parties,
carpet-dances, for the strangers' benefit.

Perhaps it was somewhat unreasonable
in his sister to expect young Tarn to join
her in incurring similar trouble, particularly
when the Miss Yaughans presented no attraction
to him. He was overburdened
with worries and weariness from his new
course of life, returning every night from
the office or the Haugli dead-beat, without
confessing it, by engagements which would
have been child's play to his father. To
the Miss Yaughans 3'oung Tam was a surly
Scot  an ungenial if not exactly unmannerly

for modern manners give great scope for
rudeness  mercantile young man.

Florence and Louise Vaughan were
neither very young nor very sympathetic.
Their standard of duty was framed largely
for clergymen's daughters with a view to
parish-work. They could tell a good deal
with regard to English Church schools,
village choirs, and charitable clubs  excellent
things to know ; hut the same
judges had few and vague opinions as to
what should or what should not he said or
done hy laymen, especially by lay-women
who were not of the clergy women's
species.

The Miss Vaughan had come to Scotland
and Semple Barns, in the immediate
neighbourhood of a great commercial city,
deeply impressed beforehand with the
shocks and surprises the travellers would
receive, as if they were about to invade
African kraals or Indian wigwams. The
new-comers did not miss the sensational

L>4~2



 ILUNQR'

IC

element in this visit. They heard a new
language, saw a new stjde of person, looked
at life from a different standpoint. Not
the least of their discoveries was the abounding
wealth which made life so much easier,
and endowed a girl like Claribel Drysdale
with a hundred advantages in dress, amusements,
and power  in a republican world
of going where she liked, doing what she
chose, and commanding to a great extent
her friends and associates  all with a quiet
mind and a clear conscience. No voun<:>*
women who were so unfortunate as to
own parents with straitened means, though
the parents' descent was aristocratic, and
their occupations and behaviour unimpeachable,
could hope to attain like
privileges.

The strangers, however restricted their
experience might have been, were not
fools. Their eyes were opened. They
saw what a good thing it was to be
commercial! V rich, since their mission of

religion not only did not include a vow of
poverty, but made no stand against worldliness,
so long as worldliness went to daily
service, paid respect to saints' days, and
decorated the church for festivals.

Lady Semple's cousins were content to
accept Claribel Drysdale as a friend. They
put due value on her father's carriage, very
much at her disposal, her riding-horses,
her high-class dress and appointments.
Neither was a home like Drysdale Hall
left out of the count. It might be over-gorgeous,
but it was the perfection of
luxury and comfort in its way, where
nothing was stinted and nothing grudged.
If there were serious objections to Claribel's
rustic father and mother, the house was
spacious enough ; her individual pursuits
and engagements were sufficiently respected
to allow her to see as little of her near
kindred as she chose.

The Miss Vaughan were so won by the
material gain that Glasgow trade can

produce, they ceased to wonder at their
cousin Lady Semple's extending the riht
hand of fellowship to the wives of those
calico-printers, cotton-spinners, and boiler-makers,
with whom her husband was on
excellent terms. The English ladies went
so far as to contemplate the possibility of
merging the natural superiority derived
from their father's and mother's birth and
breeding, name and profession, in commercial
husbands with the opulence and the
indulgence to their wives' whims and
fancies which these moneyed men were
bound to show.

But young Tarn Drysdale did not betrays
smallest sign of appreciating Lady
Semple's visitors' condescension, or of
properly esteeming the severe simplicity
of their looks, dress, and ornaments. It
was a simplicity which was in honourable
accordance with the Eev. Reginald
Vaughan's limited income, but it was riot
of the same order as Lady Semple's simplicity,

being studied and elaborate, where
hers was unstudied and careless. Neither
was it like that of Thole Murray, which
was full of individual character and clever
touches.

Young Tarn was not vulgar ; he had
very little of the bagman about him. He
had risen above his surroundings still more
than his sister Clary had risen above hers.
He might pass for a gentleman anywhere.
But if he did not happen to be the man for
either of the Miss Vaughan, it mattered
little, however eccentrically gentleman-like
he appeared in other respects.

In lieu of the support of young Tarn,
Claribel had to fall back on the adherence
of Dick Semple and Eneas Mackinnon ;
though, alas ! they were still less eligible ina
matrimonial light. Young Tam wanted
the will in relation to the Miss Vaughan ;
but the other two men wanted both the will
and the way. Dick Semple had no chance
of marrying in his own station without Sir

James's concurrence. Lady Semple had
always been easy in her mind about her
son, even with regard to Claribel Drysdale,
however much they were thrown together,
and however friendly the terms on which
they stood to each other. For her ladyship's
liberal ideas of fraternization with
the families of Glasgow ' bailies,' as she
was apt to call them, whether in or out
of office, did not extend to proposing to Sir
James that his and her solitary chick should
quit the ranks of the country gentry to
intermarry with sugar or shipping, or Ture
dye, however gilded.

Lady Semple was sure of Dick's sentiments
 that they did not incline in the
direction of Drysdale Hall, but in that of a
baronial castle, not of yesterday, and still
in the hands of a family as old as the time
of Queen Mary. Dick did not stoop  he
aspired ; and if he persevered long enough,
and if no hotter suitor came for one of
several daughters, why, the Semples of

Semple Barns, with a baronetcy of a date
not quite so far back as the baron's charters,
but not of yesterday either, and an estate
as unencumbered as the deplorable condition
of agriculture would permit, were not
to be despised. Dick might live to have
his innings, with the full consent of his
father and mother, and of a greater man.

But apart from the Honourable Lilies
and Claribel Drysdale, the Vaughan girls,
who would never see six and eight and
twenty again, and had no looks to speak of,
where quite out of the question for Dick.

As for Eneas Mackinnon, to speak of
marriage in the same breath with him was
a wild absurdity, unless he married a fortune
and every heiress was not so easily attracted
by a Mackinnon as poor Maggie
Craig had been ; while a dowered young
lady, unless she drew her dower from the
lover walks of trade, was hardly likely to
look on the imposing rank of a lieutenant
with the reverential eyes of the old aunties

in St. Mungo's Square. Where there were
no fortunes, Eneas Mackinnon, in his youth,
vas as much vowed to celibacy as any okl
Knight of Malta, any monk among them.

No doubt Claribel might have summoned
to her aid, for the better entertainment
of the Miss Vaughan, other young men,
sons of her father's friends, better inclined
than young Tarn or Dick Semple  better
supped with the means of setting up establishments
than Eneas Mackinnon. But
Clary had for a long time hung back a little
from her natural companions. She had no
desire to enter the lists with the Honourable
Lilias. She had not the ghost of a passion
for Dick Semple, who, though a good
enough fellow, was still less a man to die
for than Clare had once stated Eneas 
to be. But though she did not care
in that sense for Dick, she was fantastically
attached to the grade to which he belonged,
even in its farthest ramifications, in preference
to her own. She exaggerated the advantages

of the one, and underrated the
benefits of the other. She licked entirely
the Miss Vaughan' experience of the stints,
shifts, and shams  the unsatisfactory make-beeves
 of genteel poverty. Clever young
woman as Clary was, she showed herself a
person utterly ignorant in this respect, while
she was willing to stand aside and hide her
time, and rather put up with a good many
serious objections than relinquish her beau-ideal.


Notwithstanding the drawbacks, the
group of young people who had so many
appointments together, or in common, presented
an attractive enough aspect to
lookers-on at Semple Barns and Drysdale
Hall, at the meets in the neighbourhood, at
the theatre or assembly-rooms, to which
Mrs. Drysdale chaperoned them with some
trepidation, but abundant kindly good-humour.
Claribel Drysdale and her mother
were handsome enough in different styles
for all the four women. The MissYaughans

vere supposed to make up by that severely
simple air of theirs for what they lacked in
fairness of face and costliness of apparel.
Some unsophisticated people held that they
were distinguished-looking, because of the
uncompromising absence of the very gifts
and graces which the mass of the assembly
prized and struggled for, and pretended to
have if they did not possess them.

The Miss Vaughan were Lady Semple's
cousins, which meant much in the mercantile
community, and their presence at
public places under Mrs. Drysdale's care was
further promotion for her, of which her
daughter Clary was well aware, if the
mother, with her humble-mindedness in
the middle of her gratified vanity, made
little of it.

Poor young Eppie, who was still prohibited
from the gaieties of a grown-up
young lady, pined longingly after the people
who had carried off lor mother. Eppie
thought Dick Semple, who was thick set

and plain, quite nice-looking when lie wore
his cat's-eye studs, and a bouquet in his
coat ; and Eneas Mackinnon an Adonis,
though his studs were of the plainest, and
he had only a couple of ivy leaves, which
Clary had given him, in his button-hole.
The same partial critic considered her
mother, in her velvet and diamonds, and
Clary in her satins and pearls, as ' grand
and lovely But Eppie had not much admiration
to bestow on Florence and Louise
Vaughan. She did not care for their clinging
gauzes, or whatever the material of
their gowns might be ; the oxidized silver
girdles, which replaced the austerely plain
leather belts with which the sisters encircled
the waists of their morning dresses;
the natural flower-trimming for their cottages
; the coronals of natural flowers in
their hair. It might all be elegant and
aesthetic, but there was a mummy-like
swathing in the arrangement of the folds,
while the flower-trimmings withered, and

the result was not satisfactory. Unless a
man or a woman was naturally gifted, he
or she had to he traced up to such fashions,
as to the profusion of yellow daffodils
used not long before at a citj hancpiet hy
a confectioner of advanced principles of
taste.

Shears of common yellow lilies, auld-fashioned
daffondondillies !' more than one
of the guests had exclaimed in scorn and
derision, feeling himself shamefully Walked
of the hot-house flowers to which the price
of his ticket entitled him.

Auld Tam sought to console his younger
daughter left at home.

Never mind, my lassie, jour day will
come. I'll he a proud man when I see you
setting out with mother for your first ball
  you'll make all the other young eddies
stand about.'

You'll go with me yourself, father, or
I'll not stir a foot !' cried Eppie, recovering
her spirits, and tyrannizing by anticipation.

But, eh, I wonder young Tarn can bide
at home. To think he mioiit dance with
the best, and that he should stay away to
smoke and read. I'm sure he has plenty
of time for smoking and reading.'

Not so much as he was wont to have
auld Tam corrected her ; ' but the felly is
well aff if he would ]put think so ; he hasa
handle privileges if he would only use
them. He is on thrawn [cross] terms
with the world, that's what it is, poor
Tam ! ' his father added in a softer tone the
next moment. * For all that has come and
gone, will his day ever come ?'

Never mind him, father,' said Eppie
cheerfully, " he's a gowk [fool] not to
make the best of his opportunities. He'll
come to himself some day, without you
troubling your head any more about it.
He has gone into the business, and that is
something that has pleased mother and
you. You'll be my first partner at that
ball.'

Bairn, I would be a fell-like partners
protested Tarn, by no means displeased by
Eppie's selection. * I have not danced
since I stood up at a kern [harvest-home] ;
I believe it was your grandfather's. Your
mither was my partner, and I dare say she
was so far left to herself as to admire my
steps, and the cut and shuffle I had learnt
for the occasion.'

You used to dance with me  at least
you made me dance and ride when I was a
wee thing. Do you not mind how

and

" Jenny rode to Eu'glen " ?

" Shu ! shnggie ! sing !
A little birdie in the moss,
Neath a bunch o' fug.

Shu ! thuggee ! slug !'' '

THE DINNER-rART Y.

You'll tak' the high road,
And 111 tak' the low.'

On the greater occasions of the plays and
balls, Eneas Mackmnon was given to lounging
in the back of the box or about the
door of the assembly. He had a sense that
he was not wanted. He disliked to be conspicuous
; he told himself that he was a
detrimental, and accepted the situation with
a half-haughty, half-despairing submission.
At the home affairs he came out better. It
was there that Claribel Drysdale gradually
grew to see in him a hero of romance, the
only romance that existed for her. She
contrasted him favourably with some of the

VOL. IT. 25

awkward, engrossed, or pretentious, presuming
young Glasgow men. Eneas 
was never put out in his quietness.
He had plenty of leisure, of which the
ladies he knew, and Claribel Dry sd ale in
particular, were welcome to avail themselves.
He was not at every girl's beck,
yet he was ready to serve women in general
in a way that was very agreeable, and he
was quick to wait upon Claribel in a manner
that had its fascination. He was for the
most part at hand to ride, or skate, or walk,
or dance with Lady Semple's friends or his
own. He was never missing: where he
could be of the least use to Claribel Drysdale.


Though Clary was formed to shine in the
society she liked, she had not all the
qualities which render women popular.
Eicli man's daughter, and beautiful, quick-witted
girl as she was, she had not been
accustomed to command devotion at once
unobtrusive, unfailing, and exacting. Besides,

the men whom commerce claimed,
even the young men, were not always free
to pay such homage. Eneas Mackinnon's
regimental duty was light and brief compared
to the obligations of merchant and
manufacturer. They were all due at their
offices or works on some of the days of
the week, if not on all. The most independent,
irresponsible fellows of the number
treated business engagements with great
respect. It was a dogma of St. Mungo's
City, an article of the creed in which they
had been brought up.

Eneas Mackinnon behaved in his proud,
silent manner as if he were nobody, which
somehow made him look so much more
like somebody than the lads whose yachts,
and shooting-boxes, and clubs were never
out of the owners' minds or off their
tongues. He had none of these things,
and still he seemed better without them.
He never took advantage of any favour
granted to 'him, neither blazoned it forth,

252

nor made further advances on the strength
of it, nor refused to vacate his place, on
the least hint, to a hotter-endowed newcomer.


Lieutenant Mackinnon, poor, and helpless
to better his position, had emphatically
the stamp of one sort of gentleman on him
not only Dick Semple saw it and chose
him out of all the other officers in their
regiment for his friend : the brusque young
city men had a perception of the same
attraction. They cultivated Mackinnon's
acquaintance, and paid him the compliment
of looking up to him and copying him in a
good many things; which was a wonder,
seeing that he was next to penniless, and
his admirers hy no means steered clear of
the rock of purse-pride in their walk and
conversation.

Of course it was the finer spirits who
were thus moved ; the coarser mammon-worshippers
sneered unmercifully at lac-
kinnon, and at the whole set of empty-pocketed

young officers in the Barracks.
The assailants did their best on all
occasions to bring into strong relief the
assailed's lack of that gear which Glasgow
fathers had picked up for their sons,
about which the said sons puffed and blew,
bragged and hectored.

Attacks of this nature provoked girls like
Claribel Drysdale to stand up in defence of
their partners, and become their determined
partizans. Clary, with her unbounded
regard for gentle breeding, began to get
a little infatuated where the Lieutenant was
concerned, to admire his very laziness,
hopelessness, ponderousness, and powerlessness
to remedy the misfortune of his circumstances.
Though she was quite different,
she sympathized all the more with what
seemed his creed.

The world is all wrong, but I cannot
set it right, and, indeed, I have not much
confidence in the power of any man to set
it right  an absence of conviction which

leaves me languidly philosophic and gently
indolent.'

This is the peculiar form of agnosticism
held by young men of the Lieutenant 
type.

Auld Tam had little respect, but some
pity, for young Mackinnon. The present
proprietor of Drysdale Hall made it a point
of honour to be hospitable towards the son
of the former owner, not without a display
of the improvements he, Tam Drysdale,
had brought about.

Your father would not knows the place
again if he were to see it  eh, Mr. 
? You see there has been a considerable
amount of capital invested both
at the Haugh and the Hall, and capital can
work wonders. These gates, now, cost
hunters before they were out of the foundry.
If you like to take a turn through the
stables, or the cattle-sheds, or the greenhouses,
or to go over to the bleaching-ground
and the dyeing-rooms, you'll seethe

extent of the improvements. But now,
I mind, you were too young when you left
to notice much ; however, you can guess."

Beyond this courtesy and flourish of
trumpets, Tam had not the slightest desire
to go.

It came upon Tam with the shock of an
unpleasant surprise he could hardly realize
for scorn, and yet was forced to believe,
with angry alarm, that this son of Gavin
Mackinnon*s  this officer lad without a
penny, and with nothing but what appeared
to Tam the fellow's cool superciliousness
to sustain him  was having the impudence
to make up to Clary. Nay, if the truth
were to be told, it was rather Clary who,
in a maidenly way, was having the folly to
make up to him, distinguishing him by her
notice, lending him every encouragement.
Clary ! who was so proud, so wise, thought
so much of herself, and looked so high.

The unpalatable idea thrust itself on Tam
in the course of a dinner at Semple Barns.

Lady Semple did not draw the strict line
between the okl and the young, the married
and the single, in the matter of dinners
which was the rule in Tarn's circle. An
invitation to dinner at Semple Barns was
never limited to Mr. and Mrs. Drysdale.
It always included Claribel; young Tam, if
he could be had ; even young Epjne sometimes,
in spite of her not having come out
elsewhere ; and necessarily other young
people to meet the young Drysdales.

Sir James's health was failing. He had
been a shrewd old man, with a few foibles
and testy technicalities which caused him
to dismiss whatever trod on his toes as
ridiculous, ridiculous.' He had really appreciated
Tam Dr'sdale's broad commonsense
and mother wit, and had enjoy-ed
samples of them as a variety on the tone
of the country gentlemen in the neighbourhood.
But the host was no longer equal
to protracted hospitalities. His guests
knew it, and repaired in a body to the

drawing-room within a quarter of an hour
of the Ladies quitting the table.

The elder men of the party had been
confined to a neighbouring sheriff, who had
far to drive, and started almost immediately;
an old laird, wio had little to say
at any time, and had acquired a trick of
falling asleep wherever he was ; and Tam
Drysdale. Sir James, on his part, conceived
himself bound to devote whatever
energy was left in him to the discomfited
wife of the somnolent laird, who happened
to be an old family friend.

Tam was by no means averse to the
society of women, but he was not quite at
home with Lady Semple and the Miss-vaughan,
though he was one of her ladyship's
first favourites, for whose good
opinion she was anxious. In fact, the spare
little woman in the plain silk gown, with
the grey hair under her small lace cap, laid
herself out for his entertainment, and aired
all her theories, or what he called, in his

own mind, lier fal-lals, in vain, for he still
fought shy of her. He could not speak to
his wife, content to sit with her hands in
her lap and be shown an album, which she
had seen twenty times before, by the more
disengaged of the Miss Vaughan. He
wished he were back at Drjsdale Hall. He
did not think young Eppie and young Tam
had such a great loss in being absent, after
all. Auld Tam took to watching the joung
people gathered round the piano, and speculating
about them. Was he dreaming ?
Could he trust his eyes that Clary was singing
to that polished stick Mackinnon; that
she was looking to him to turn over her
music, pick up her handkerchief and get her
fan ; that she was spending her strength in
putting a little animation into the listless
puppy ?

There was nothing to find fault with in
the manner of the deed. Clary had been
well brought up, and was as modest as her
mother. Auld Tam knew there were girls

in the better classes who eoiiki not he depended
on, but he thanked God he could
never have that to say of his daughters 
Eppie's daughters. Still, that would not
prevent Clary's * throwing herself away like
a fool '  Clary who had been so wise  too
wise in the wisdom of the world, he had
sometimes been tempted to suspect. She
had always held her head high, and got a
great deal of her own way, so that it would
be hard to hold her in at this time of the
day. Tam began to doubt whether it was
not girls like Clary  self-sufficing, ambitious
who astonished their* friends by their inconsistencies
in the crowning acts of their
lives. It was as if the girl had professed
too much  as if nature, early trampled
down, rose up when it was least expected,
and revenged itself.

"What did Lady Semple mean by not looking
better after the young people committed
to her charge ? He recalled that Clary had
gone in to dinner v/ith Mackinnon, and had

seemeth well pleased with her partner. Act
there was that lad of her ladyship's playing
at some game of making pictures, with one
of the English lasses, who was neither
bonnie nor braw, and looked old enough to
be his auntie ; for all that, mischief might
come to one or other from the close association.
She might mistake his intentions,
of which, doubtless, he had none to be mistaken
; or he might be drawn into an entanglement
which would hamper him all the
days of his life. Why did Lady Semple
not mind the lads and lasses instead of
plaguing poor Sir Jeames to try the allotment
system, persuading herself she had
a knowledge of fat pigs, and pretending to
spin ?

If this was all the good that was to
be got by Lady Semple's making such a
friend of Clary, auld Tam wished the girl
had never seen the woman. No, his fine-looking,
fine-mannered climate lass, with
a fair fortune, was not maudlin', bletherin*'

,Gauvin Mackinnon's son's bargain, at any
price.

Naturally Tarn relieved his mind, "whenever
he was left alone with his wife, after
their return, on the subject which lead
troubled him.

Mother, you are more in the way of spying
such ferries than I am. Such broke is
for you, and not for me. There is a great
deal of forgathering [meeting] between the
young folk here and at Semple Barns just
now. There is no harm in that, but it maybe
carried over far and have vexing consequences.
I'm half ashamed to speak out 
it seems a wrong to Clary ; but do you not
fancy she's leading on, without thinking, I
dare say, that stupid, stuck-up chap of an
officier, Mackinnon ? The couple are carrying
on  in short, people will make remarks,
and that must not be.'

In the beginning of this confidence

Eppie blushed like a girl, her brown eyes

.twinkled, and her mouth pursed itself up

with a mixture of importance and eager
earnest.

Have you seen something between them
father ?' she asked, with a Httle excitement*
I did think that Clary was different to him
from what she was to the other lads. But
it might have been fancy. I had aye felled
myself Clary would not be easy to get rounds
or would be won by grandeur, and not give
her heart a chance, which would have been
a sore pity, for when a woman's heart is
could, a's could. Now, he has little to say
for himself, and is a kind of drifted about
child  ye ken what I mean, Tam  letting
himself be mastered and carried wa' by
circumstances'; no like you, reciting every
inch of the grunt, and bund to come aff the
conqueror. But I suppose it is all right.
You're strong enough for twa, and we've
enough for everybody'. Clary will ken her
own mind, if anybody will, and you will
not be hard upon them, if it come to that ;
you'll never stand in their way, and make

two people  one of them your ain eldest
politer  miserable ? To think of Clary
with a loose of her ain ! Only I'm thinking
she'll not have a loose, just rooms in
the Barracks with the other lodgers' wives
well, to think of her following the drum
may be stranger still. Eh ! it will be queer
to have a doctor the length of being-married
. It will be little Eppie next, and
it mak's you and me an auld couple, Tam,'
she said, looking up at him with wistful
eyes.

'are you daft [mad], Eppie ?' cried Tam
at last. * Are you clean daft ? You maybe
auld, but you've your wisdom-teeth to
cut yet. I tell you there is to be no word
of sic havers. Mackinnon would be a most
unsuitable man for Clary. I will not hear
of sic folly.'

But if they're in love, Tam ?' remonstrated
Eppie, a little startled by his warmth,
but still urging her plea as if it were
irresistible. ' You would not cross truelove

! And as to his not being fit for her,
he's a very personable lad ; and though
he's a thocht canny, he'll be the easier
guided. Clary will, take the reins wherever
she is ; she's made to rule. And have you
forgotten that his father was the maister
here when you were the man ? There's a
sort of justice in another change of seats.
It will be a Mackinnon coming back to the
Haugh, as it was a Drysdale returning in
your shoon.'

A fell odds in the return, and a very
limping kind of justice,' protested Tain
indignantly. ' "Woman, you surely ken, if
anybody kens, that I wrocht for my return,
and earned it with the sweat o' my brow.
If a man's ain wife moors [smothers]
his honour, I would not give muckle foret
at other hands. It was for a long time that
Gauvin Mackinnon continued the maister,
and me the man, and it would bo the same
with this son of his  long he would hold
thither ony pillar he might make out of

me ! And it's that he's seeking when he
seeks Clary,' the speaker declared bitterly.

The men of the Mackinnons may be gude
for little else nowadays, but they're gude
arithmeticians when they mean marriage.
It belongs to the kind.'

Eh ! that's not fair of you. Tarn,'
interrupted Eppie, scandalized. ' Clary's
a bonnie, strapping lass  IVe seen that he
thocht sae in the laddie's been, mony a time,
when he did not guess that I was so leg
[sharp]. You've no right to belie him. But
I did not mean to vex you,' added Eppie
earnestly, quick to rue a sharp word to her
husband. * I never thocht of evening young
Mackinnon to the like of you ; but if he's
Clary's fancy you would not part lovers.'

Yes, I would,' maintained Tam doggedly;

and for that matter, true love can take
care of itself. But it is, as you say, a
fancy, and nothing but a fancy, bred of
idlest [idleness], and over-indulgence.
Clary does not ken what she would be at,

VOL. II. 26

raid she does not ken what it is to live ; so
slice makes sheep 's-eyes at this jackanapes,
and she'll he the first to thank me for
saving her from him. x\s for him, it's an
instinct of self-preservation  an easy way
of winning his living, say what yoii will of
what you've seen in his cen. Been have lied
ere now to women, and before their Maker.
So you'll take heed, and look after the twa ;
and let there be no more of this nonsense 
I will not have it !'

Eppie looked at him in silence, as he turned
away. It was not for her to rise up in
open opposition to her husband, though she
could cross him firmly enough in the cause
of the bairns, and for conscience' sake. Such
women as Eppie are always strong where
conscience is concerned. She was her Tam's
wedded wife  his most loving wife to boot,
but she was not his slave. However, in this
case, apart from the question of love, she did
not know that he was far wrong. She had
never really taken very kindly to the 

lad of whom Clary approved, in spite
of his good looks, and what some might hold
his misfortunes. What she doubted washer
ability to fulfil Tarn's behest. She had
even her suspicion of his unqualified power
in this light, and she told him her opinion
honestly, as a true wife should.

You're a clever man, Tarn Drysdale,'
said Eppie, * and you've foclit your battle
and triumphed ; but you've never bridled
or saddled hearts, or set bounds to the sea,
that you should say you will not have this,
or you forbid that, as if you were lord of
all. And Clary is as high-headed as you
are high-handed ; she has it from you, and
we've made her what she is. Will she
mind me ? Yes, she will so far ; for shea
leddv, and so she cannot set her mither
at nocht. And, of course, I can say,
** You'll not have these Vaughan lassies
and the lads in their train here soon again,
Clary. I have never centered [contradicted!
you about going to Teddy Semple's, but I

2() 2

maun conter you now. Me and your
father hold you're a licht too often
there when Mr. Semple is at hame, and
Mr. Maekinnon is keeping him company.
And, on second thoughts, Clary, I've given
ap the idea of taking you all to the club-ball.
Your father is not in the humour forme
going more out at present." Then she
would stare, and maybe she would argue a
bit, in a composed, half-laughing way, but
she would end by saying, ' Very well,
mother ; of course we'll not go if you don't
wish it." She would do nothing underhand,
for I tell you Clary is a teddy  not a
make-believe teddy in fine clothes ; she's a
teddy Hke Teddy Semple and the Miss
Yaughans. But would that bo giving up
the lad ? My certe ! if you kenned
women, it would be mair like clinging to
him from that moment, through thick and
thin. It would not be as if she put her
arms round my neck, and great [wept i on
my breast, as young Eppie might do, and

cried, ' You and my father ken best,
mother, and I'll try and do your bidding ;
and if I fail, you'll try to forgive me." Kana,
Tam ; you're strong, but you canna boo
[bend] wills, and put out the dawn of love,
like the lowe of a candle between your
finger and your thoomb, to meet your views

Young Tam had gone little to Barley
Eiggs lately. Perhaps he felt he had
enough to do without visiting  perhaps he
had not forgiven Thole for dismissing him
and his offerings from the hall of the house
in St. Mungo's Square. Perhaps, with the
perversity of human nature  one of the
subtlest contradictions sinners have to strive
against  he refused to give himself the
comfort of Dr. Peter's hearty approval. He
was shamefaced over what looked like a
recantation of his diatribes against social
inequalities. He shrank from reading the
cool congratulation, the sly malice, the
happy carelessness in Thole's ]bright eyes.

Dr. Peter and Thole talked of the young

man many a time, though she grew involuntarily
shyer of the subject than she
had been. Dr. Peter thought it as well to
leave young Tam to himself in these days
of struggling self-mastery ; and Thole
l)egan to fear the situation was changing'
scanehow, and that her grave and sardonic
companion, at older people's revels, would
be less himself, less comical in his youthful
disdain and disgust than of old. For
aught that she knew, he might begin to
talk ' shop ' like the rest  the most'zealously
of all, even as she had predicted that ho
would live to become the keenest trader,
the most lavishly spending architect of
another Drysdalo Hall. He might mellow
altogether, and wax brisk and lively. He
might seek to outrival Mr. Rowland in
story telling, and herself in singing * Major
Macpherson heaved a Sigh.' He might
ask her to dance a quadrille, or propose,
when the summer came again, to join Clary 's>
tennis-party ; and the proceeding would be

as out of place as if Werther or Hamlet
had executed the steps of a hornpipe, or
suggested a game at battledore and shuttlecock.
She could not say that she would like
the transformation ; it would be a species of
shock, and she grew absolutely' apprehensive
of it.

It was not at any dinner that Thole
chanced to encounter young Tarn for the
first time after he was his father's partner.
Neither was it on a charitable errand like
that which had united them in the interest
of the Miss Mackinnons. It was not at
Drysdale Hall or Barley Riggs. The meeting
took place amidst business surroundings.
Thole had gone to the works one day with
a little packet of patterns, and made her
Wiry to the pattern-room, to find the man
at the head of the department, her usual
referee, absent. There was another referee
in his place, young Tam Drysdale, looming
big and solemn, his very moustache showing
portentously, seated at the man's desk,

taking stock of the patients, and qualifying
himself for a pattern-furnisher.

Thole was herself again, to her own
great satisfaction, in an instant, while young
Tarn, as he rose from his elevated seat,
appeared undeniably confused and disturbed.
Certainly she did not curtsey to him, but
neither did she pay any heed to his overture
to shake hands. She bowed sedately
and proceeded to do her errand at once.
She unfolded her patterns, explained their
designs, when these did not speak for themselves,
asked his opinion of their merit, and
whether he would have them, with the
greatest propriety. She would have been
a thousand times franker and more discursive
to auld Tam.

"When young Tam said of course, and
that she was a better judge of such things
than he was, she waved aside the simple
truth with energy, as if it were the most
fulsome compliment. The only approach
she made to accepting the tribute, was

suddenly to overwhelm him with a dissertation
on patterns  so fluent, so thorough,
that it took away his breath, and did not
leave room for the introduction of a single
word on other topics. She dismissed herself
in the middle of the harangue, with her
eyes sparkling, and at the same time a sort
of * dare-to-come-with-me-to-the-door ' air,
that nailed the young man to the spot on
which he was standing.

But he was determined she should not
get the better of him here. He consulted
every available authority, drew elaborately,
with the help of a pair of compasses, a
calico pattern out of his head, as the fruit
of his investigations, and sent it over to
Barley Biggs, with a polite request that
Miss Murray would try something in this
style, which he had worked out, and should
like to introduce into the works.

Thole returned the pattern in a quarter
of an hour, with a civil note, proving in
half-a-dozen lines that most of the curves

were wrong, and mentioning that apparently
colour had not come within the scope of the
design.

When 3'onng Tarn was initiating himself
practically into the mysteries of the dye-vats,
he had to wear a dyer's suit, and his
hands  sometimes even his face  were a
sight to contemplate. As a rule, he changed
his dress and did his best to wash himself
at the works ; but once or twice  once by
an accident which overthrew his arrangements,
and twice when a spirit of boorish
bravado came over him  he walked home
in the guise which Tintoret may have displayed
when he was still a lad about his
father's dye-works, before he had taken up
the palette and brushes of the prince of
painters. In the dark December afternoon
there was little light to distinguish what
garb a man had donned. But at one point,
where the road to the works joined the
loaning which led to Barley Riggs, a lamp
had been put up, and made a broad illumination

in a circle, through which wayfarers
had to go in passing the spot.

When young Tarn, dressed in character,
arrived at this stage of revelation on his
homeward road, he was suddenly confronted
by Thole Murray, who had strolled as far
as the end of her own road to look out
for her father returning from one of his
medical rounds. Had young Tarn got a
glimpse of Thole a moment sooner, before
he had himself entered the enchanted ring,
which exposed all the horrible incongruity
and fantasticalness of his coat  nay, his
skin  of many colours, and if he could not
have beaten a retreat down the path he
had come up, in double-quick time, he
would have been fool enough to risk his
neck by attempting to scale, at a moment's
notice, the high wall belonging to the
works.

Now, had auld Tam been the victim, he
would have advanced with the courage and
composure of a wise man, though one side

of his nose had been orange and the other
hie, and there had been a splash of
vermilion on his chin. It woukl have
made no difference, though his age had
been reduced to young Tam's, and it had
been bonnie Eppie Mercer who had crossed
his path when he was in this plight. His
demeanour would have been much the same
as it had been on the occasion of a little
incident which had impressed his family.
An enterprising mouse had invaded
Drysdale Hall, penetrated to the diningroom,
and actually ran up the foot of the
master of the house, where he sat after
dinner. There where screaming and
scuttling on all sides. Young Eppie was
on the top of the sideboard in as short a
time as it takes to record the feat. Even
Clary was moved to mount a chair. Mrs.
Drysdale backed, in a hasty manner, from
the table, drawing her skirts round her.
Young Tam took up the poker. But auld
Tam, with a robust superiority to all qualms

of feeling, treated the aggressor simply as a
fellow-mortals He sat where he was,
gave his nether garments a shake, said in
the easiest of tones, ' Get wa' with you,
sir,' and went on with what he had been
saying previous to the episode.

Though Thole Murray was plainly
dressed, she was invariably neat, with a
dainty neatness which is not always attained
by the height of extravagance. She was
particularly so this afternoon, as she stood
in her dark serge, with the little thin, white
muslin apron she was fond of wearing
fluttering in the wind, and over her head
and shoulders a quilted hood of old doves
silk, which she put on when
she visited her out-of-door pets.

Mr. Thomas Drysdale as the clown in
the pantomime, three weeks before Christmas,'
she said, eyeing him from head to
foot, taking in every daub and stain, and
making the miserable man visibly conscious
of the sum of them.

The performance has one merit  it is
gratis,' he said hurriedly ; ' and if you will
stand aside, Miss Murray, so that I may
not get you into a mess, it won't be
tedious.'

Oh, I don't mind a stain or two,' she
said, in the most obliging manner. ' I
can always nse salts of sorrel. I could
recommend them honestly. But Iioav
did you get so many and such Upright
patches ? Did any colour get on the
cloth ? You haven't tumbled into the
vats r

'No,' he answered shortly; * but I'm a
bungler  I always was, and always shall
be ; and there's an end of it. Will you let
me pass, Miss Murray, without giving
yourself the trouble and annoyance of becoming
further acquainted with the beastly
condition I am in ?'

Of course, but don't be hard upon yourself
: indeed, you do not always bungle 
sou have done the tlxiug completely this

time,' she said, lier eyes overflowing with
lighter ; ' the doubt is, will it pay V

It is no matter whether it pajs or what
it costs, if it ought to be done,' he retorted,
with his old lofty manner, and the odd
figure vanished in the darkness.

Atliole went back to the house into the
parlour, and stood looking into the fire.
The fun passed out of her face, and was replaced
by a wistful gravity. Her father
found her thus, and she turned and said to
him, without any preamble, as if she were
announcing a discovery she had just
made :

 Father, young Tam Drysdale is a fine
fellow.'

Have you only found that out now,
Thole ?' Dr. Peter replied, raising his eyebrows.


Well, he hides his head under a bushel
of extravagance,' she said, as an apology
for her slowness ; * I suppose all modern
heroes are laughable. The penalty of

looking ridiculous is what they must suffer
for their spice of heroism. Don't you
think there is a grain of heroism in a man
especially a young man's owning that he
has been in the wrong, and eating his leek,
so thoroughly as young Tam is doing ?'

Yes ; and wdiat is more, it is heroism
of the right, not the stage, sort. It is not
particularly picturesque, and if it has a
flavour of self-martyrdom about it, let us
be thankful it is common homely self-martyrdom,
not martyrdom on stilts. The
victim will not exalt himself over it

It would be a good deal finer, as well
as less absurd, if the hero did not make wry
faces,' remarked Thole reflectively ; ' but
one cannot have everything.'

It may have been by way of bringing
about a hardly hoped-for perfection, and of
serving as a wholesome discipline for young
Tam in the interval, that Thole's pungent
mockery flourished as much as ever, in
their casual intercourse, after this date.

THE COMMON TEMPTATION, WITH ITS USUAL

ACCOMPANIMENT.

A PERIOD of remarkably flourishing trade
followed in Glasgow. The recent prosperous
years had all been leading up to
this flush of enterprise and attainment.
The expansion, if it did not pervade every
source, reached to many departments of
trade. Never had the hammers of the
boiler-makers and the shipbuilders rung
with more inspiring din, sending sonorous
music down the misty river. Never had
such strings of casks rumbled heavily in
and out of the sugar warehouses and the
spirit vaults. Never had St. Eollax and
its sister chimneys vomited forth heavier
VOL. II. 27

volumes of tainted smoke. Never had the
Exchange been so thronged and so busy,
or Buchanan Street so crowded with promenaders
and purchasers, or the Brooches
so besieged with the shipping of all
nations.

Mechanics and mill-hands had the
maximum of wages. The homes of employees
abounded not only in comforts, butin
expensive, inappropriate luxuries  in
port wine, oysters, and early strawberries ;
in rosewood couches, pianos, and featherbeds.
The women of the class figured, on
high days and holidays, in silk and lace.
The custom of the smaller shops became
steady and richly remunerative ; that of
the larger swelled enormously, till it reached
so grand a scale of fortune-making that it
ceased to be worth while asking the hitherto
crucial question whether the process were
wholesale or retail.

There seemed a limitless buoyance in the
markets, an inexhaustible capacity for buying

and selling beyond what had ever been
dreamt of. Only invention, of which necessity
is the parent, languished, and Dr.
Peter, out at Barley Riggs, shook his head.

 It is a fever-fit,' he said to Thole,
when the patient looks full in the face and
rosy, with an eye like a star, and a pulse
beating like the throbs of a steam-engine,
and when the man has the strength of ten
men. But even before the collapse, which
will not tarry, can come, a train of evils,
like Michael Scott's wee devils, will start
into being, come to the front, and plague
the man for work to do to employ their spare
energies, till he is worn out with the very
power that is about to quit him in a
moment, and leave him next to dead on
his bed.'

But what although there were fewer
Glasgow patents taken out this year than
for a dozen or more years before ? What
although words of warning were spoken in
the country by an elderly poorish man who

272

had gone far and come back With his hands
not above a quarter full, so that he had to take
the not very distinguished post of doctor at
the Drysdale Haugh Works, and be thankful
for it ? This was a man who, as many
would have said, had  made a mull ' of his
own life ; it signified little, and might betaken
as a matter of course, that he should
deliver a jeremiad on the uncertainty of
fortune. All the big men, the great traders
and financiers, were taking the tide at its
height, and seizing the opportunity to extend
their already vast operations, to double
and quadruple their huge receipts. It
seemed as if the rebound would never reach
them. This condition of splendid success
must be fortified and confirmed, until it
lasted to the extreme border of the century.
Men were so eager to avail themselves of
the chances opening out before them, that
wherever they had irons at all, they put
every one into the fire. Speculators caught
at the materials out of which millions might

be made, and launched them on the rising
waters, with a faith that scarcely knew a
doubt. A large amount of capital was
lifted out of the old channels, which, by
comparison, paid miserably, and laid out in
the new cent, percent, ventures of a brilliant
era in commerce. Credit followed capital,
and he was counted happiest who could
command most, who had a bank of which
he was one of the principal directors at
his back, into whose cash-box  speaking
figuratively  he could dip his hand at will ;
or who belonged to an old-established firm
in high repute for sagacity and wealth ; ora
new firm whose good fortune kept step
with its daring, so that it dazzled the eyes
of its contemporaries, forgetting to apply
the word ' plunging ' to its great triumphant
undertakings.

The abounding life of manufacturing and
mercantile Glasgow was not confined to itself
by any means. It spread in wider and wider
circles, till it might be said to girdle the

world. The zone of trade extended from
France to Prussia, from the East to the West
Indies, from America in the far north to
America in the far south, from the territory
of an enlightened Khedive in ancient Egypt,
to the domains of a fore-seeing Queen in the
special Pacific Island which had renounced
cannibalism. In all these quarters men
felt that great Glasgow was up and doing,
that her craftsmen were wielding their
brawny arms, and her merchants busying
their shrewd brains with glorious results to
the prosperity of lands beyond the seas.

Even the people who were least touched
by the strong impetus, awoke to a distant
rumour of the city's tremendous transactions
and mighty profits, and invented
fables more incredible still of the men who
were puddlers, or winders, or dock-labourers
to-day and princes tomorrow ; of granite
]palaces which were equivalent to streets
paved with gold. The risings in Hfo at
the Australian and American diggings were

o

a trifle to the upheavals in Glasgow society
nothing was said at this moment of the
corresponding downfalls. The gold nuggets
of Ballarat and San Francisco were not to
be spoken of in a breath with the floating
capital of Glasgow  the real nuggets were
bills of lading and invoices. Tyre and
Ormuz, in their traditions, must thenceforth
hide their diminished heads ; Manchester
bolstered up by Salford, and Liverpool
backed by Birkenhead, had better withdraw
from the idle competition.

Tarn Drysdale was not out of the vortex,
though for a time he trod it cautiously, more
so than youno Tarn. When the latter encountered
the full sweep of the current, he
lost his head a little, as he found the order-books
no longer fit to contain the orders and
commissions for calico of every tint and
pattern pouring in from the ends of the
earth. Indeed, the longest hours were not
long enough. All the workmen that could
be pressed into the service, though they

were to work clay and night, would not have
availed to bring the supply on a level with
the demand. It was the first time that the
young man had come into personal contact
with the intoxication of trade, which was
wont to address itself chiefly to the middle-aged,
and to make up to them for the passing
away of earlier stimulants in the visionary
dreams of youth and the strong passions
of manhood.

But, as time rolls on, the hurry of trade,
in England and America particularly, engrosses
younger and younger men, and becomes
often their keenest pursuit. This is
especially the case with the gilded youth of
both countries. It had not been so hitherto
with young Tam Drysdale ; but it had
been predicted of him, and who was he that
lie should resist the stream which was carrying
all before it ? What was characteristic
about his plunge was that it took
colouring from his previous associations.
Young Tam, if left to himself, would have

gone in a little wildly for ventures in his
business, as the means of a millennium in
trade, by an immediate raising of the
masses, and rendering them decent and
happy for ever afterwards, with civilization
and Christianity borne in the conqueror's car
from pole to pole.

x\uld Tam knew better than that, but his
blood was up at last, and then it became
plain what a giant in his sphere the man
was. How he could contrive, organize, and
execute on the most colossal lines, till
beside his achievements the greatest deeds
of his neighbours grew dwarfed. His office
and works, his branch of trade, Glasgow itself,
felt proud of him, and the sweet incense
of general homage to auld Tam, who in his
boyhood had been the poorest artisan of
them all, rose to his brain also. The self-approbation
and vanity which had never
been deficient in his composition waxed
rampant and soared to sublime heights.

Tames confidential talk became vapouring.

He spoke as if every dyeing and
calico-printing business in the world must
yield to his and merge into it ; as if all
other trades would grow subordinate to the
staining of cotton cloth in different colours
and the stamping it in various designs ; as
if the wonders which chemical affinities and
repulsions could produce had never been
sounded to their depths, but he  Tarn Drysdale
 or if not he, his son, young Tarn,
was the man to sound them, and to discover
the dye of djes  before which Tyrian
purple, Venetian green, Derby blue, magenta
red, and coal-tar mauve, would sink into
dimness and eclipse. He would witch the
world with noble dyes. The kingdom of
beauty should own his magnificent contributions.
His grandsons would inherit the
land when dyeing and printing had their
proper place among the arts and sciences,
and auld Tam's descendants were the princes
of dyers and printers. It was hearing his
father, wise on all else, discourse thus

madly that cured yotiiig: Tarn of this own
dawning delusions.

In truth, the strain of that period of overtrade
was awful, and it spoke much for
the strength and balance of those West-country
minds, that they were only shaken
not crushed and overthrown for ever 
by the fierce tension. As the race quickened
to lightning-speed, a tendency to push
production to impossibilities in fair trade, to
substitute spurious for genuine articles, to
flood the markets with inferior goods, and
pander to the craving for cheapness by apparent
underselling, became more and more
conspicuous. Auld Tam did not fall into
this snare ; he was at once too clear-sighted
and too honest. But the necessity of fighting
with his own weapons against such rivals,
and the determination to come off the victor,
drew him farther and farther into lawful
but perilous speculation.

Commensurate with the strain was the
exhaustion of such times. Men must have

relaxation, and they must have artificial
support, else flesh and blood would not
endure the ordeal to which they were subjected.
Different classes of men and different
men themselves took their sops in
various ways. The New-year time, according
to old style, was kept with such bestial
excess, riot, and waste, by many of the
people, as dismayed their best friends.
"Who vas to know that the finer spirits,
coming between the scum and the dregs,
took their pleasure temperately, soberly ?
The select few among the working-men
were laying by for an independent, peaceful
old age, were rising in the social scale,
carefully cultivating tastes for higher, more
exquisite pleasures, making time for attendance
at schools and lectures, buying books
and reading them, haunting museums and
picture-galleries. With the first breath of
spring these men would snatch sails  down
the water,' and runs into the country; would
nourish grand projects of holiday excursions

to Ireland, to London  that capital of the
world ; to Manchester, or Birmingham 
Glasgow's sister town : to France, or Belgium
 wide flights after the old yearly
trips to Arran and Large, with which the
able-bodied holiday-makers had been formerly
satisfied.

It would seem as if the mode of living
all over Glasgow altered at this time, and
the rate of family expenditure increased in
proportion. Men who were in their shops
and offices late and early, who were pursued
by letters and caught by telegrams, whatever
the season  on the wedding-morning of this
lad, and when that father's first-born lay
cold in death  who were, in fact, hunted
like runaway slaves to the last gasp, had
need of all the indulgences and all the
support which money, dearly earned, could
procure for them. If their weakness should
dream of haunches of venison, pipes of red
Burgundy whitebait soaked in white wine,
let the spent toilers have their desires,

tliongli they had been contented at no
distant day with legs of mutton, cod's
head and shoulders, poorish claret or sherry,
and the native vintage of the country.
When the over-burdened men returned
home in the small hours, and sought to
sup on devilled turkey, pine-apple, and the
last best brand of champagne, don't deny
the wearied wights what they sought,
though the least surfeit might increase the
danger of apoplexy; it was to be hoped that
lemon-squash and a pick-me-up would restore
the balance next morning.

If wives and daughters, mothers and
sisters, never saw their mankind from the
drab-coloured dawn to the mirk midnight,
except on Sundays ; if even then the men
were engrossed and oppressed, slept like
logs in and out of the churches  to which
Glasgow never neglects to go  and when
awakened were flighty and cross beyond the
conception of the liveliest imagination,
surely the women, in their turn, deserved

compensation for their enforced loneliness
and dulness, in the loss of rational intercourse
with the heads of their houses,
Give matron and maiden their share of
the spoil, which was costing everybody
dear, in cookery and confectionery, to suit
feminine tastes, in bigger houses, finer furniture,
more servants, in sables and seal-skins,
Duchesse and Valenciennes lace, in
jewel-cases, opera-boxes, and carriages  
where carriages had never been hinted at
before. The two turning - points fondly
contemplated in many a Glasgow career 
to be riding in a carriage, and to be keeping
a butler'  where attained by a multitude
this year. By the way, this riding in a
carriage seems peculiarly the goal of West-country
ambition ; nowhere else do men
and women, who have stood behind a
counter, toiled in shirt-sleeves, washed at a
washing-tub, take instantly and inevitably
to private carriages, like ducks to water, as
the inhabitants of St. Mungo's city take to

I

them. And after the carriages, but at a
considerable distance, come the large yachts.
When all was done, it was no great entertainment
to be luxurious and splendid en
famille. More and more visiting had to be
resorted to, in order to put the top-stone to
the fairy edifice, to divert the thoughts, to
rouse the imagination, to excite the languid
senses. When there was a moment to spare,
it was filled up by some dinner or evening
engagement. There was the theatre, if
there was nothing else. The Glasgow-clubs
were becoming more and more like
the London clubs ; the whist-play was excellent,
and if whist formed too strong meat,
there were Napoleon and vingt-et-un. But
the theatre was still the j>/a'<3 de resistance,
Glasgow could afford to pay the lessee to
bring down the greatest stars to strut and
sing and charm away its idle moments,
when idleness there was none, unless among
the women. There was not even the most
necessary repose. The hurry of life was

becoming hotter, more entangling and bewildering.
The pace grew terrific. ' I
wish I could get a breathing-space to start
my brow [scratch my brow], no to speak of
saying a prayer ! ' exclaimed an unhappy
man on the verge of desperation.

There were other men and women who
had long ago ridden in their carriages and
kept their butlers : these thrice fortunate
individuals bought more of the estates
which the old country gentry saw themselves
compelled to bring to the hammer ;
rented the best deer - forests ; extended
and enlarged ranges of conservatories and
picture-galleries ; had visions of entering
Parliament, or going on the turf  if only the
men had leisure. Fathers promised their
elder sons and daughters trips up the Nile
and voyages round the world, and sent
their younger children to the most strictly
select and outrageously expensive schools.
that could be heard of for love or money.
Still, as the ball went round merrily,
VOL. II. 28

while handsomer incomes were taken for
granted, and larger sums spent simply as a
matter of course, there appeared the more
absolute necessity for relaxing exertions
to maintain the great trade which was to
feed all these drains. The daughters of
the horse-leech were crying, ' Give, give !'
and refusing to add ' Enough.'

The readers of Tennyson's * Palace of
Art ' know that there is only one end to
self-indulgence, of however high a kind.
The appetite fails, the food palls, the mind
turns and preys upon itself, or it demands
coarser and more powerful fare, and fierier
stimulants. Men and women in all grades,
who had been modest, contented, domestic,
temperate, before the period of inordinate
activity and prosperity, received from it the
fatal bias which left them, after long years
perhaps, arrogant, dissatisfied, unable to
remain quietly at home, gluttons, drunkards
in secret or openly.

At the same time, it would be false to say

that the season of success Alas put to no
great end. Grand improvements were inaugurated
and brought to pass, worthy the
public spirit of the mediaeval Italian cities.
Mao-munificent acts of charity. which the middle
ages hardly knew, were performed without
a grudge, almost without an effort. The
citizens of St. Mungo's city seldom button
up their pockets. Her big, burly merchants
are very humane, whatever their faults.
Many of them are as liberal-hearted and
open-handed as any men in Christendom,
dispensing their bounty without hesitation or
fuss. There is a gruff ' Say no more about
it ' tone in their generosity, which has a
curious delicacy in its very abruptness.
The fellow-feeling among the inhabitants
is strong. In order to buy fresh machinery
for a burnt-out or sold-out manufacturer, or
to furnish the means of independence to the
helpless, destitute children of a former
townsman, five thousand  ten thousand 
pounds have been subscribed for within

282

an hour on the Exchange, vith no stipulation
made, except that the names of the
donors shoukl be withheld, in order that
the recipients of the gift might remain in
ignorance of their benefactors.

The almsgiving at this date was lavish,
like everything else; and Tam Drysdale had
his hand in it, as well as in sending to
London for lists of dinner-services in silver-gilt,
and for having out a famous authority
to Drysdale Hall to see whether the corridor
could not be supplied with panels painted
in fresco by all the first artists in Europe.
In the face of such prodigality auld Tam still
raised a storm in the house when he found a
crust of bread had been thrown to the pigs,
and threatened to discharge a groom because
he had paid a few pence beyond the ordinary
charge for the feed of a horse in a country-inn
stable. And all the time there was a
pauper lunatic out at Gartnavel who clawed
at the door of his cell, and chattered of
Mackinnon of Drsdale Haugh.

DR. PETER AND ATHOLE MURRAY MAKE
THEIR STAND.

An elderly man with his young daughter,
living in full sound of the periodical revolution
in Glasgow habits and manners,
did not follow suit. Life at Barley Riggs
went on exactly as it had done before these
busy, delirious days. Not a change did
the family make in their routine, for they
had still plenty of time for everything.
Not a fresh incongruous article was added
to the old simple seasoned household gods.
Thole had not an additional gown of
costlier material. Dr. Peter even bought
fewer books than usual, and denied himself
an improved telescope which he had thought

of buying. He could Jo star-gazing without
it, every time he was called out on a
clear night, and perhaps it was not worth
the while of a man of his age to fix the
study on the latest scientific basis. It
seemed as if the family were called upon
to testify to a different order of things, and
to utter their small protest against the
opposite extreme.

The only one who murmured was the
handmaiden Jeannie. For she would come
and lay siege to Atliole with tales of the
dainties and ' bonny-dies ' [pretty things],
the cakes and puddings, the trays and
mirrors, which were now to be seen in the
houses of the Haugh work-people, as plentiful
as blackberries. Jeannie appeared to
feel it as a personal injury that the table at
Barley' Eicfefs was not more richly furnished,
but was kept as wholesomely plain and
light in its good and sufficient cookery as
eyer ; and that her young mistress would
not launch into the attire of an extravagant

countess, in order to afford Jeannie a precedent
for doing likewise within lier sphere.
The maiden was not very wise, but she was
a kindly-disposed girl, knew a good place
when she had it, and, though she was
restive, retained a creditable respect and
regard for the master and mistress who
had taken a constant interest in her welfare.


There were many more than Jeannie,
among people who ought to have known
better, who thought it very absurd that the
household at Barley Eiggs should be standing
still while the rest of the world was
advancing. These judges viewed with loud
scorn the old-fashioned, poor-spirited, unneighbourly
pair. Yes, Dr. Peter and
Thole, who in their corner, with their
stinted means, kept abreast of much of
the thought of the day, were called old-fashioned,
and the man and woman who
had entered the breach to deliver the
Miss Mackinnons, were styled poor-spirited

and unneighbourly. To row against the
stream is not only hard work  it strikes
the mass as an ungracious performance.

Certainly Dr. Peter's income did not
vary much with the rise of the popular
funds. He did not take the money he had
saved out of the old investment, in order
to put it ito the new, and quadruple the
interest. Tarn Drysdale had proposed that
the men with their higher wages should
contribute a larger moiety, as he himself
agreed to do from his increased profits, to
their doctor's pay. The men were willing,
but Dr. Peter interfered, and limited the
addition to the lowest sum. He said the
working world would have need of all their
spare pennies when the rate of orders and
wages had fallen again, as it was bound to
subside. He had no more doubt of slack
times coming round, in a kind of natural
order, than that cloud' strata would follow
upon tracts of blue sky, and the east wind
succeed the west. most people agreed with

him in theory, but in practice he was
thought a Jeremiah for his pains.

There was a peculiar element of coolness
and repose about Barley Eiggs at this time,
in contrast to the fever and unrest in its
vicinity. Yet life was not without its excitement
there, as elsewhere. Dr. Peter
had specially interesting cases and problems
which engrossed him. Thole hit on a new
pattern, or was inspired with a design
beyond the range of calico-printing, which
she burned to express in wood or on
earthenware, and managed to work out in a
halting manner that did not render the idea
barren, but by the very difficulty of clothing
it in material form, made it fruitful in
amended ideals, if in nothing else. All
the news of all the world, ancient and
modern, came to them in books and journals
which the couple could study, digest, talk
of in earnest and in jest, for Dr. Peter and
Thole were great and good talkers together.


The seasons were constantly bringing some
new thing  the first snowdrop, the catkin
on the willow, the blossom on the gean-tree,
the earliest rose, the latest hazel-nut.
Dr. Peter and Thole, though the latter ina
less degree  for the young are too full of
the mystery of themselves to be always
open to nature  scarcely ever missed a
fine sunset, the evening star hanging
tremulous in a daffodil sky, or the full
moon when she was riding without check,
white and glittering, in the purple darkness
beyond her track. The two rarely
lost the look of the garden before the
morning sun had melted the cranreuch on
bough and leaf ; or that other aspect when
spring had come, and the earth was brown,
with the grass springing, the reddened buds
swelling, the softest haze of genial mist
hovering over the tender, everlasting youth
of the scene.

There was never a day or an hour when
some event did not happen in the animal

kingdom at Barley Eiggs, and it never
happened without observation and interest
another calf, another kid, a brood of
spring chickens ; the patriarchal dog held
fast in a rabbit-trap, the baby kitten
catching a mouse ; this bird beginning to
sing, that to moult; Dr. Peter's pony undergoing
a clipping, Thole's old Shetland
treated for a cough ; the first butterfly,
the first swallow.

Early morning hours were kept at Barley
Eiggs, though Dr. Peter had not to bolt
his breakfast and start for Glasgow by the
nine o'clock train. On the contrary, he
rose not later than seven, and  unless it
were raining pigs and whistles  took a
stroll over the place to see that all was
right, leant a minute over the gate to have
a * crack ' with this or that familiar workingman
or woman who had been home for
breakfast. Or he made a bolt out to inquire
for some patient who might have had
a restless night and be wearying to see his

doctor, for Atliole did not approve, if the
obligation were not urgent, of her father's
attending his sick before he had broken his
fast. Then Dr. Peter walked back to the
house as fresh as a daisy, and ate his meal
in a leisurely, sensible fashion.

He hailed the postman, read his letters,
glanced over the newspaper, and cleaned
and fed such furred and feathered retainers
as fell to his care. Next he changed his
coat, and set out on his morning round,
leaving Thole and her handmaiden to the
household cares which belonged to the
early part of the day, and were as regularly
and satisfactorily discharged on their part
as another mission was fulfilled on his.

Dr. Peter practised what he preached.
He recommended early dining as the rule
of life for working-men and invalids alike,
and he came home in anticipation of his
dinner an hour after noon, and did a little
work ill the surgery  the constant accompaniment
of a country doctor's house,

where lie was training a homely assistant,
whose college terms were yet to begin. In
addition to this assistant,, Dr. Peter had the
services of a stout boy for his pony and in
the garden, and on him the doctor bestowed
a few additional minutes of his time
before he appeared in the parlour at the
sound of the dinner-bell.

There was a smoking season after dinner,
when the great advantages of a veranda
which had been erected on one side of the
house were regularly recognised. Thole
was generally with Dr. Peter then   playing,'
as he called it, taking her part in a
lively argument, teasing or being teased,
hearing and giving the gossip of the
morning.

A little later the two frequently walked
out together when he had such professional
visits as he could pay in this way, or he
took another round to keep his evening
clear, or he worked in the garden. In the
latter case he would call to Thole where

she sat at work in the window, every terminates
or so, to come out and listen to
some weighty piece of information he had to
give her  on the state of the moukl, which
woukl require special treatment ; about a
singular grub he had turned up ; with regard
to the flight of the rooks, which determined
the next day's weather ; or the appearance
of the gooseberry-blossom as a criterion of
next July's crop of gooseberries. If the
weather were hot, and he felt tired, Dr.
Peter would withdraw to the old Dutch
summer-house, in which he remembered his
young brothers holding merry smoking-parties,
and read or meditate, or take a
nap, as the humour moved him.

In winter Dr. Peter would be more in
his surgery, or he would retire to the loft
in which he did his joinery and turning,
when Atliole would look in upon him, and
put a summary stop to his working more
than he was able.

At the tea-table  set out in the old

methodical substantial fashion, with Cowper's

hissing urn ' in the place of honour  Dr.
Peter came out in full force. He was as
fond of tea as if he had been Dr. Samuel
Johnson, or an old washerwoman, he was
accustomed to say. He insisted if people
would drink the beverage rationally, well
wafted ' with bread, or perhaps a slice of
tongue or corned beef, or ewe-milk cheese,
he would stake his credit as a medical man
that it would not do the veriest old wife
harm. It was the unnatural, senseless

babbling ' at the drink at all hours of
the day which played the mischief. At
the same time he regarded the meal as
essentially feminine, the woman's hour, to
which, if you would cultivate her good
graces, you must do justice by rendering
yourself as agreeable as it was in your power
to be. He thought no woman ever looked
better than v/hen she was presiding at a
tea-table, and dispensing her own peculiar
good things. He liked to see Thole in

his sister's place ; his wife, whom he had
married and immediately taken abroad,
where' she died, had never been at Barley
Eiggs.

Dr. Peter generally revealed at the tea-table
what book he had unearthed from
his shelves, or intercepted at the railway
station, and deposited in his pocket to
surprise Thole. ' Ah ha, lassie ! you do
not know what I have got here,' he would
cry in glee, patting the bulging-out pocket.
And Thole would guess wildly, wide of
the mark, till she grew impatient. Then
he would give up his treasure, and she
would handle it, peep into it, read sentences
from it like a connoisseur. She would
hurry to get her work, when he would read
to her till his ejes were weary, and she
would take her turn and read to him, with
plenty of pauses for comment, contradiction,
or agreement.

If the book were either not interesting
enough, or too interesting, he would call a

halt, and bid Thole sing to him, which
she did pleasantly enough, either with or
without the piano. She had a gift for
quaint genteel comedies' and farces, for
old songs like * Major Macpherson heaved a
sigh  Monsieur, je vous n'entend pas,' ' My
face is my fortune ;' though she could not
give ' Logic 0' Buchan,' or ' Wha's at the
window, wha, wha T with such naive sweetness
as young Eppie Drysdale rendered
them.

If there was anything left of the evening,
Dr. Peter would challenge his daughter to
draughts or bezique, and whoever the
victor was, he or she was rarely great
enough to refrain from crowding over the
vanquished.

The master of the house was a country
doctor, and suffered in full from the lingering
dilatoriness and sudden panic which
causes the poorer, more ignorant country
people to try every remedy in illness save
sending for the qualified judge, and to

VOL. II. 29

practise the patience of Job till the small
hours, then to rush helter-skelter, disturbing
the lieges generally, and knocking an unhappy
man out of his hard-earned bed, for
help which he might have bestowed with
comparatively little trouble, and to more
purpose, half-a-dozen hours before. Still,
Dr. Peter could generally manage to keep his
hours sufficiently regulated for him to act as
family priest. He could appear with his
household for a brief time in what he
believed to be the Great Presence, acknowledge
an Almighty Father's supremacy, and
supplicate His mercy.

Sometimes patients were so thriving and
considerate as to permit their doctor to eat
in peace his simple supper of a haddock ora
herring, or ' a shape of potted head,' and
drink the single glass of toddy which was
supposed to fortify him against the effects of
exposure and fatigue, if he were summoned
late, which occurred sufficiently often to
have tried the constitution, mental and

bodily, of a much younger man. Then Dr.
Peter would rise and stretch himself, cry
cheerily :

Hey for boot and horse, lads,' charge
Thole not to sit up herself, or let Jeannie
sit up for him, and go his way, perhaps not
to be back till daybreak.

Sunday could not, in the nature of
things, absolve Dr. Peter from the duties of
his profession, since men sicken and die on
the Saturday and Sunday indiscriminately.
But, taken in their highest sense, these
duties fitted in well with the day of Him
who, on the Jewish Sabbath, restored the
withered hand, and bade the palsied man
take up his bed and walk. They rarely
prevented Dr. Peter from going with Thole
to join his neighbours in public worship,
in the church where he held the office of an
elder, the minister of which was one of his
oldest and most esteemed friends. In other
respects, Sunday was a day of rest to Dr.
Peter, in the sense of a day quiet, and calm,

292

and Lriglit  for knitting closer family ties,
for still more intimate association with
nature, for reading his Lest books, for remembering
friends near and far away, for
communing with the unseen, and penetrating
behind the veil.

Not only was Dr. Peter well content with
these imhiirrying days, as a leisurely end
to an active career, a slight experience of
the land of Belli before he passed beyond
the light of sun and star ; Thole had
the feeling and taste to be sensible of
their fine flavour. She said to herself,
truly, that she would not change her father
and their home-life together for any other
father  however well endowed and indulgent ;
or any other life  however full of change
and movement. This was in spite of the
fact that Thole's heart was ' hot and
restless,' like other young hearts, that she
felt tempted to welcome variety, emulation,
opposition, so that it promised excitement,
to be in the thick of the conflict, the rush of

the strife  of a good deal that was going on
in St. Mungo's city at this moment. She
could even have welcomed a passage at
arms with young Tam Drysdale, to strike a
spark from the steel. But always, when
Atliole came to think of it, she grew sorry
for such a mood. She knew she was
wronging herself and her father, and wished,
in an exalted mood, that nothing at Barley
Eiggs might ever alter, for nothing on earth
could be better.

Barley Biggs was not out of the range of
visiting and visitors, while Dr. Peter was
hospitable with all the friendly hospitality of
a man who has lived at a foreign station, and
known what a neighbour may be at a pinch.
But though he put his best before his
guests, it must be his natural best, what
was in keeping with his position and habits,
and only outran in a cordial, gracious way
his ordinary experience. From the first
day that Dr. Peter returned to Barley Riggs
and settled there, he set his face steadfastly

against display and competition for the
prize in extravagant outlay, or in recherches
attainment, the sole virtue of which was
that it happened to be recherche,

 Our friends know what to expect from
us, Atliie,' Dr. Peter would counsel his
daughter ; ' and upon my soul I believe
they will be better pleased with that than
with something out of all bounds. If
they're not, I am mistaken in them, that
is all ; and they had better stay away, and
go where they can be served according to
their fancy.'

In what way?' inspired Thole tentatively.


In what way ? When a man looks
round on crystal, silver, and flowers enough
to dazzle and bewilder him, and reads a
menu as long as his arm, containing three
times as many dishes as he can touch.'

There is no great harm in that,' said
Thole mischievously.

Wait. He eats what he is not accustomed

to ; vliat, very likely, is not good for
him, and what his instincts are often sound
enough to warn him away from, if he would
attend to them. But no, he must ape his
neighbours, pretend to tastes he never felt,
and bolster up his gastronomical feats by
drinking less or more of all the wines and
liqueurs that are handed round, and "pretending
to like them, too, till he is miserable.
And if he does come to feel the liking he
has feigned, the worse for him.'

Father, I am afraid you are talking
shop,' objected Dr. Peter's daughter. * You
ought to have thrown the substance of that
speech into a paper for the Lancet.'

Don't talk nonsense, child. We could
not afford such dinners, Thole, and wee will
not airy. People have enough of that kind
of thing elsewhere. When they come tous
they must come for more than the bill of
fare, or for such a bill of fare as is perfectly
good and appetizing  even tasty of its
kind.'

Now yoii overwhelm me professed
Thole.

 Lassie, what would the soldiers in 'the
Crimea, or in Znluland, or in Egypt have
thought of it ? Yet it has not cost what is
equivalent to a poor man's house-rent for a
year, and will not spoil anybody's digestion,
or ruin me, though I were to give a
dinner to a dozen friends once a month.'

To the credit of mankind, no less than of
Dr. Peter and his housekeeper, when he did
indulge in giving unpretending, well-cooked
dinners, they were highly popular with rich
and poor alike. Their success might be
due, in a degree, to his excellent qualities
as a host, and his gifts as a raconteur and
to the able manner in which Thole abetted
him in both these directions. Yet it seemed
as if, in the leap which the west had taken
in wealth and luxury, there was a little less
relish for the mother wit of the past, a little
less inclination to be reminded of ancient
tln-ift or waste, stoic endurance, or passionate

assertion. The present, the crowded
present, threatened to become all m all.
But to Dr. Peter the old records and stories
never lost their charm. He delighted in
picturing Glasgow when Queen Mary was
said to have given its name to a certain
suburb, then a country village, as she looked
at the crucifix in the palm of her hand, and
swore, in defiance of the rebel army barring
her way, ' By the cross in my loos, I will
sleep in Dumbarton this night !' He had
equal pleasure in recalling later centuries,
when golf was still played on Glasgow
Green, and a walk round it before breakfast
was the ' constitutional ' of all the active old
gentlemen in the town. He would fain
have known the ingredients of that hot
herb ale which the pedestrians afterwards
drank, with such relish and benefit, in
Currie's Close.

Dr. Peter fairly angered auld Tam by
speculating on whether he (Dr. Peter) would
not have liked Glasgow better when fish

was her sole trade, and Clyde's banks were
bonnie and blooming, and the air caller and
sweeter from Hamilton to Campbell ;
when the inhabitants of St. Mungo's city
thought nothing fairer or grander than
their own cathedral, beneath which good
Kentigern slept ; when a double rainbow
spanning the Clyde, or a troop of ' merry
dancers ' in the northern skv, was an event
worthy of notice, spoken of for days, no
more eclipsed and obscured by the rushing,
noisy obligations of trade, than by the reek
of a forest of chimneys which did not yet
exist.

Sir HUGO WILLOUGHBY ENTERS THE LISTS,
AND IS CAPTIVATED BY THE MERCHANT
PRINCES.

Glasgow is not the most aristocratic city in
lier Majesty's dominions. Her merchant
princes may be lavish of that wealth which
commands so much ; their establishments,
both in town and country; may have passed
beyond the stage of soulless luxury and
sumptuousness, and attained the higher
distinction of intellectual culture. The
West-end clubs may be exclusive ; the
city may have resources within herself,
which do something to counterbalance the
disadvantages of enormous traffic. glasgow
society, hospitable in every walk, may,

in the upper classes, be only too flatteringly
kind to sprigs of gentility. For some of
them do find their way to a field where they
receive so much favour  condescend to baskin
its sunshine, and profit by its substantial
benefits. Witness the Miss Vaughan,
Lady Semple's cousins, who were not disinclined
to consider overtures of alliance,
backed by full purses, from the sons of
commerce. Still, as a matter of fact,
Glasgow is not the haunt of the nobility and
gentry of the United Kingdom. Titles,
except in the case of Lord Provosts, or of
titled men and women appearing at civic
feasts, election and volunteer balls, or charitable
breakfasts, rarely figure in the lists
of company at this or that table.

For a real live baronet of ancient line
and good estates, one who was neither a
blacken nor a prodigal, to alight and abide
for any length of time  not merely to be
passing a night in one of the best hotels,
on his way to the Highlands  was for a

rara avis to show himself, when a flutter of
wings from all the common birds called
attention to the fact. If the baronet happened
to be yomig, and a bachelor, the
flutter, which was always better defined in
feminine quarters, became twenty times
more eager and animated. The excitement
referred to an event which did not happen
often, but had been known to occur, and
to produce the most charming consequences.
Daughters of St. Mungo's city, like the
daughters of Augsburg of old, had departed
ere now with their others, to gild afresh
old titles, to appear no more in commercial
circles, but to be heard of from afar as denizens
of the politest regions.

Public feeling jointed in this direction
when the news spread abroad that young
Horsburgh  of ' Horsburgh and Tenants
the great West Indian merchants  who had
been to Cambridge, had brought back with
him for his Easter holidays his college
chum, Sir Hugo Willoughby, of Willoughby

Court. Sir Hugo was reported young,
handsome, intelligent, agreeable, of a race
dating from the Conquest  which is a great
deal better than dating from Adam  with a
rental that, though it did not come within
a tenth or twentieth part of the profits of
some of the larger city firms, was perhaps
safer, and was certainly not to be despised.
In addition, the rental was said to be accompanied
by such a perfect old Court in
Lincolnshire, that the mere possession of it
conferred the finest odours of gentility ow
its fortunate owner.

Moreover, Sir Hugo was likely to remain
for a time. He was understood to have a
laudable curiosity about city life and trade;
centres. He would not only inspect warehouses,
he would ride to cover with the
Lancashire hunting men ; he might take
a run in Guy Horsburgh's yacht. Early
as the season was, he would be seen at the
dinners and balls of the select traders who
could claim the acquaintance of the family

in which Sir Hugo was staying. And, as
if to render the public good greater, and
the chances of war fairer for all, Guy
Horsburgh had no unmarried sisters. There
was no dangerous propinquity settling the
question at once, and leaving hardly the
ghost of an opportunity for any other girl.

Is it wonderful that the maiden heart of
richest Glasgow heaved high, like the breast
of Major Macpherson in the song, that many
a council of war was held between mothers
and daughters and sisters, this windy Marchand
many a box from court milliners in London,
and even from Worth in Paris, was
hastily conjured up with materials for the
short but what might be the momentous
campaign ?

Really, Sir Hugo was worthy of it on
his own individual merits. He was a fine
young fellow. The foundation of his principles
had been laid by a good mother  a
widow who had never ceased to mourn for
the husband of her youth, whose son, her

only child, was the apple of her eye. From
her he had derived a remarkable amount of
ingenuousness and a dash of enthusiasm,
which such intercourse with the world ashe
had commanded had failed to extinguish.
He was regarded as something of a young
Quixote at his University, which had been
his world for the most part, but he had possessed
wit to defend his views. He was
manly, rather rash, and a little thoughtless ;
but in his very thoughtlessness he was generous
and honest  a lad to be liked first and
trusted afterwards. He was unconventional
reckoning according to the last, the Eneas
Mackinnon, pattern of young men.

Sir Hugo had sufficient brains to seek to
extend his knowledge of humanity. It was
true that he had come to Glasgow with an ardent
desire to learn all he could pick up about
one of the wonderful man-hives of Britain
and the world, as unlike as possible in its
ceaseless stir among all classes, and recurring
flights and falls, to the traditions of Diis

order. These pointed to dignified quiet and
leisure, an established order of things, a
God-appointed institution of rulers and
ruled, of different sorts and conditions of
men, who were to govern and obey, to
amuse themselves and to work, to be helpful
to each other while they remained far
apart  above all, to rest content with the
very different lots which Providence had
assigned to them.

It is impossible to deny another motive
which had brought Sir Huofo to GlasOAV.
He was joung, and therefore merry, facile,
and so open to temptation. He had heard
amazing and unsurpassable stories of the
incongruities and absurdities of Glasgow
life, as of life at the diggings, of the gulf
between the nouveaux riches and their former
habits, and the blunders these lucliy men
and women committed. He was fain to test
for himself the truth or falsehood of these
travellers' tales, to have his squire of the
laugh that was habitually playing round the

VOL. TT. 30

comedy, in the better-informed world. But
Lis native generosity' caused him to repent
of the deed before it was committed ; and if
he should see the slightest reason to qualify
his impressions, he would be the first to renounce
them.

As it chanced, Sir Hugo was delighted
with Glasgow life. Its powerful vitality,
innumerable lights and shades, and the magnitude
of its achievements, took hold of his
large stock of sympathy, and made a mark
on what was at this time his rampant imagination.
He was quite capable of going
out of himself and his order to appreciate
qualities and conditions which, however
admirable in themselves, were foreign to
his earlier experience. Indeed, the novelty
of the situation was one of its chief attractions.


Young Horsl)urgh was not without amor
pair la'. He had been a good deal aggrieved
by the estimation in which he had found his
native city held in other regions, and b}' the

chaffing which he had been called on to
endure on its account. One of his purposes
in bringing Sir Hugo down with him had
been to open his eyes, by showing him what
St. Mungo's city really was, and by proving
that there were not only as wealthy citizens,
but as good men and educated gentlemen
within its bounds, as were to be found in or
out of any city in Christendom.

Sir Hugo had not been a week in Glasgow
before his volunteered recantation outstripped
the mark. He out - Herded
Herod, and went far ahead of Guy Hors-burgh
in his extravagant regard for Glasgow.
There was no enterprise like Glasgow
enterprise ; there were no manufactures
like Glasgow manufactures ; no men and
women like those of Glasgow wherever the
light of day shone.

It was only ordinary gratitude in Glasgow,
especially young Glasgow, to make an idol of
Sir Hugo in return, to say there never had
been a ' Prince Charming ' like him. He

302

was so perfect a gentleman, so good-looking.
He was a little of a thread-paper as yet,
but that defect was mending daily since he
had attained his majority; besides, the slimness"
stood out in agreeable relief to the
early tendency to heavy weights and large
outlines on the part of the city men. And
nobody could refuse to grant that Sir Hugo's
clear olive skin, high nose, open forehead
and peaked chin became him exceedingly.
He was clever, pleasant, and high-bred.
In short, he had only one fault ; he was
too easily pleased, too much inclined to be
everybody's body  so that his conquest, if
he were conquered in a special sense, would
argue rather a piece of good luck, a happy
accident, than a decided choice where he
was concerned, and a triumphant victory
for his conqueror. But could there ever
be a smaller spot on the sun '?

The connection occasioned by the advent
of Sir Hugo Willoughby disturbed the equanimity
of even so self-controlled a young

lady as Claribel Drysdale. She was conscious
of a wish to be introduced to the
stranger. She studied her toilet as other
Glasgow girls  competitors for his ready
smiles  studied theirs. She was gratified
by receiving his tribute of admiration. She
listened complacently to the little meaning
suggestions and half-veiled prophecies of
her friend, Lady Semple.

Her ladyship had suddenly developed
a capacity for match-making on Carriers
account. It was a shame to her  Lady
Semple  the matron told herself, never to
have done anything of this kind on Claribel
Drysdale's behalf before. But then Lady
Semple knew that Claribel looked high,
while, on the other hand, it was not every
gentleman in her ladyship's circle who
would care to have Mr. and Mrs. Drysdale,
much as Lady Semple herself liked them in
their own place, for head pere and belle mere.
However, Sir Hugo was young, and good-natured,
and much in love with Glasgow

already, and Lady Semple did not think
Lady Willougliby  the dowager in prospect
would make any serious objection, particularly
as Claribel Drysdale ought to have
quite a handsome fortune, and was in all
respects decidedly presentable. Lady Willougliby
was too kind and reasonable, and
too devoted to her son to form an insurmountable
obstacle.

Of course Claribel would not have done
for Dick, even if the Honourable Lilias had
been out of the question, with the whole
Drysdale clan, and all that was objectionable
in their rusticity continually turning up.
But it was a far cry to Willoughby Court ;
and if any of the Drysdales, except Clare
ever found their way there, as certainly
they ought to do at some time, seeing they
were quite respectable people, it would
simply be as birds of passage.

Yes, the match might do very well, though
it would not in any circumstances have
suited Dick, who had never thought of it.

It might be the very thing for Sir Hugo,
who, from all Lady Semple could hear, was
too impulsive and heedless. He would he
all the better for a wife like Clary Dry sd ale
to look after him. She would make him an
excellent wife, of whom any man in any
position might he proud ; and Lady Semple
would be very glad to help Claribel to such
a position  it would be a graceful act.
Her ladyship had found her young friend
a great acquisition at Semple Barns. She
was exceedingly sensible, and had wonderful
powers of adaptation and savoir
faire.

Lady Semple knew she was standing in
her own light, for she would miss Claribel
when she was gone ; but no selfish consideration
ought to be suffered to spoil a young-girl's
brilliant prospects. The Vaughan
girls need not be disappointed, for it could
not be expected that Sir Hugo would think
of either of them. They were too old, had
no beauty to signify, and no fortune, while

their stylo, vliicli might weigh with city
men, was nothing to him.

Chxribel Drysclale was proud and delicate-minded.
She made no unbecoming advances
to Sir Hugo. She vouchsafed him no
further encouragement than she allowed to
other men beyond the range of merchants
and manufacturers ; but she consented to
meet him wherever he was to be met. She
smiled graciously on his acceptance of an
invitation to dine at Dr3'sdale Hall, which
auld Tam, not to be outdone bv his neighbours,
had sent Sir Hugo after calling on
him. Clary's smile was in spite of the
consideration, which none of the family
realized as she comprehended it, that there
were halls and halls ; that is to say, that
Drysdale Hall and Willoughby Court should
not be mentioned in the same breath.

In all this Claribel had lost sight of Eneas
MacldunoD. He had slipped out of her
thoughts, had been superseded by the
glamour surrounding another man, who

promised to fulfil the desire of the girl's
heart, the dream of her youth. Perhaps it
may be said, small blame to her for it, so
instantaneously, without any sign of resistance,
did the Lieutenant acquiesce in her
decision, and withdraw from the faintest approach
to competition with his welhendowed
rival. Only a shade more weariness in his
weary, handsome face, and the dying out of
a spark of hope  it had never been more
than a spark  in his hopeless, not unkindly
eyes, betokened any sense of a change in
her manner, and a change in the world to
him. But, after all, Claribel, with the exception
of young Tam, was the least moved
of any in the house by the coming of Sir
Hugo.

Auld Tam had grown accustomed to ' Sir
Jeames ' as a neighbour and friend ; but a
fine young English baronet, said to be cousin
to an earl, was a guest deserving first-rate
entertainment at Drsdale Hall. It was
worth while showing to him its unapproachable

advantages, and the best of everything
which money  its master's earning  could
procure for him. Therefore, Tam was
exacting and disposed to be fussy about the
feast. He interfered in the matter of the
dinner, to the disgust of the trained cook
and housekeeper who had been foisted on
Mrs. Drysdale. He ordered and counter-ordered
 sent out emissaries from Glasgow
with the delicacies which were not in
season, and then supplanted them by other
messengers with more cates which would
not go with the first. During the whole
time, the man himself would have preferred
green kail to turtle soup, and a ' tipped
herring ' to turbot. He changed the wines
more than once, putting himself out and
overturning the arrangement of his cellar.
He fidgeted about the decanting and non-descanting
of the bottles, their heating and
cooling, with the necessity for keeping the
different vintages distinct.

Mrs. Drysdale's fine temper was as nearly

ruffled as it could be. Tarn might have
had a Httle consideration for her, she said to
herself. He might have thought the burden
of the dinner was on her, not on him ; that
it was trial enough for her to face more fine
folk, after she had grown accustomed to
Sir Jeames ' and Lady Semple, without
making her miserable beforehand. She did
not know what had come over Tam. He
had got his own way with young Tam, and
it was flying in the face of a kind Providence
not to be content. She feared prosperity
was wasting her Tam. She could
have found it in her heart to hate this Sir
Hughie  or whatever he might be called 
who caused so much trouble.

But the next moment auld Eppie was
sharing young Eppie's joyous excitement
about the grand young Englishman. They
were deep in a happy consultation as to
what flowers the two could coax from the
head-gardener  almost as formidable a subordinate
as Mrs. Wood  to adorn, according

to the women's pretty devices, not only the
drawing-room and the dinner-table, but the
picture-gallery, to which Tam always took
his cherished guests before or after dinner,
as the light suited. The two were like an
elder and a younger sister as they ran about,
for the bonnie, buxom matron was still light
and active, disposing pots of ferns and
azaleas, jonquils, hyacinths, and heaths,
wherever the pair imagined pots could beset
to advantage. If auld Tam could have
seen his wife and daughter just then, all his
small difficulties would have vanished,
everything would have appeared right in a
moment.

Young Eppie did not dispute the fiat
which had originally come from Clary, that
since she  Eppie was not to be sent to
school, she could not appear at dinner when
there was company at Drysdale Hall till
she had attained the mature age of eighteen.
Eppie, like her mother, was a reasonable,
submissive being, unless when her affections

made her stand at bay. She was perfectly-well
pleased only to be seen m the drawing-room
with the tea and coffee, where, she
said, Sir James and Lady Semple would
speak to her, and maybe Mr. Horsburgh
and ' Captain Mackinnon,' for she had seen
them before, with any of the other ladies
and gentlemen she knew. But she did not
expect to be introduced to Sir Hugo Willoughby,
for Clary would want him to hand
her cup and turn over her music ; besides,
if he were so very grand, she Eppie
could not tell what to say to him ; she
would be frightened out of her wits.

Guy Horsburgh, knowing something of
the host and his ways, made an appointment
with Tarn at his office, and asked him to
drive out the two young men to Drysdale
Hall in time to see the stables and offices,
which were in Sir Hugo's line.

Naturally, Tam complied with excellent
grace, and he lead been enabled to discourse,
con amove, on his outward possessions for

three-quarters of an hour before the gentlemen
entered the house.

Sh Hugo had Hastened, admired, been m-
treated, been bored, been tolerant, felt that
a great deal of trouble was being taken on
his account ; and thought that Horsburgh
had brought it on them, for he himself hated
to give trouble. Sir Hugo wished that he
had not to suspect the old gentleman  Tam,
in his prime, seemed a veteran to the lad,
little over twenty  was not blowing his own
trumpet. But very likely his cattle and
so forth were his hobby. It was not only
soldiers and sailors, but men of every calling
 tinkers and tailors, too, he dared say
who delighted to turn Cincinnatus when
they got the opportunity. He supposed
farm-buildings and stables were in his line,
but he would rather have seen the dye-works;
only, if he had to be shown by demonstration
that there were no such vats in the
country as the Drysdale Hall vats, and had
each appraised at its proper value  well, it

was a trifle tedious, begging the old gentleman's
pardon, and he would not broach the
subject, but would hold everybody excused
for the omission.

A YOUNG THING JUST COME Fear HER

MAMMY.

J

As the party were approaching the main
entrance, Tarn, who was leading the van,
caught a glimpse of an under-gardener,
whom he judged to be the defaulter in
some trifle amiss with the terrace that had
just caught the master's orderly eye. Without
ceremony, he turned aside to call the
culprit to account. In the meantime, Guy
Horsburgh saw young Tarn, who had been
over at the works, coming up the avenue,
and waited to meet him. Sir Hugo, thinking
the others were close at his heels,
entered by the door which the servant had

thrown open, and was shown by himself to
the picture-gallery.

Sir Hugo was not alone. One of the
daughters of the house, doubtless  though
surely not the one he had seen before  had
not gone to dress, and was bending over a
flower stand, and so intent upon shifting a
pot that she did not notice anybody was
there.

Allow me, Miss Drysdale,' said Sir
Hugo, who had too little self-consciousness
to feel uncomfortable on his own account,
advancing like the pink of courtesy that he
was.

Young Eppie started, looked up with
parted red lips, and dark eyes so wide open
that the long curling lashes ceased to veil
them. So far from having gone to dress,
she had done nothing to repair the result of
her work since luncheon. Her fringe  oh !
she could not tell what state her fringe was
in ; but she did not believe there was a hair
that she had not pushed out of her eyes or

VOL. II. 31

tucked behind lier ears half-a-dozen times.
Her hands were green and red from contact
with the flower-pots. Her morning gown
was the oldest she possessed, and the one
which had received the worst usage ; it was
dragged to one side because Eppie had just
trodden on the hem and toni a portion of the
skirt out of ' the gathers.' All this when
the ' Allow me, Miss Drysdale spoken by
an English tongue, confirmed, beyond the
possibility of mistake, the impression which
her single startled glance had at once conveyed.
This strange young man, with his
horrible ease, was the very Sir Hugo
Willoughby for whom everybody had been
making such preparations. What would
Clary think ! What would her father  nay,
what would her mother say, if they knew
the plight in which their chief guest had
found Eppie !

With a little half-stifled shriek of dismay
which she could not altogether repress,
Eppie, obeying the first impulse, turned and

v>

fled like the wind to the nearest door. Ina
moment she disappeared, as if no such
disordered young figure had disturbed the
propriety of the beautiful room. The only
relic she had left behind was the very vestige
which had remained of Cinderella  one little
slipper had dropped in the flight.

Sir Hugo stood amazed  amused. Was
this the behaviour of the young Glasgow
ladies when they were taken by surprise ?
But, ye gods ! what a beautiful young
Hebe. He advanced a step, stooped, and
picked up the morocco slipper, regarding it
critically. It was small enough to have belonged
to Cinderella, or Atlanta  if Atlanta
had donned a slipper. At the same
time it was a good deal worn, and looked
peeled and discoloured, as if it had run over
rough stones and damp grass, as well as
soft carpets. Finally, it had been thrust
down at the heel in a flagrantly slipshod
fashion, for which the wearer had been
punished by her loss. But, poor little

312

thing, how frightened she had looked !
Was she kept in great order hy strict dragons
of mother and euler sisters ? That must
have been an euler sister* whom he had met
several times, with an air about her as if
she could enforce good manners. Would
the little one be exposed and brought to
book if she were found out ? Should he
not screen her to the best of his ability ?
He put the disreputable small slipper into
his pocket, and laughed softly. It was the
first personal adventure which had happened
to him since he came to Glasgow. It was ,
the first thing of the kind that had ever befallen
him.

Presentlvthe current of Sir Huf>o's meditations
was arrested, and he was recalled to
ordinary life by the entrance of the other
men, and the appearance of sirs. Drysdale,
who had dressed early, because she knew
the picture-gallery would be shown, and she
Avould be wanted while Tam slipped away
to dress. She did not look much like a

dragon, anyhow, Sir Hugo reflected in parenthesis,
as he was introduced to her, while
he knew from whom the Httle one had her
lovely face. These Glasgow fellows had the
best of everything.

Mrs. Drysdale, on her side, leapt to the
conclusion that, to be a fine 3'onng English
baronet, ' Sir Hughie ' seemed an innocent
lad enough  not more alarming than Guy
Horsburgh, who had been a schoolfellow of
young Tarn's.

Auld Tarn vais already turning to the
pictures,  looking sharp,' and eager to get
through with the job in hand  to introduce
the visitor to the Drysdale Hall collection,
and witness his surprise and pleasure, before
the owner had to go.

I cannot promise you much, Sir Huge.
What can one man do ? and it seems only
the other day I took to the trade. Young
Tam, there, may gather something worth a
man's coming to see. I have hardly an
auld maister, unless you can call this Keep

-which is doubtful  and that Veronese fit

representatives of the auld schemes. To
tell the truth, I have not a great eye for their
merits. Give me the modern artists that
can draw, whose colours are not all gone off
to fiddle-bro on.'

But there is your Groove, Tarn, and
your Missoneer/ Mrs. Drysdale reminded
her husband.  You're surely forgetting
them.'

No, mother, but they are not auld
masters, more by token INIissoneer is living,
like Breeton  I've a great work with
Breeton  and Feelers, Sir Hugie. I went
out of my way and paid eight hunter down
for a canvas of Breeton's of no great size,
as you'll see in a moment ; but, man, his
peasants are to the life. And there's a
Madame Brown here, that I like in her work
as well as any woman going. But I must
be aff, not to keep the dinner waiting.
Mind, mother, the Silly, and do not forget
the Wilkie, and the Auburn, for the honour

of auld Scotland. But take care you leave
the gentlemen in time to change their feet
[boots]. '

Mrs. Drysdale did her best with such
simplicity and goodwill, that she defied
criticism, either on her pronunciation or
her art knowledge. Sir Hugo listened with
even more than the courtesy natural to
him. Presently he turned aside to a flower-stand.


You have rival colours here, Mrs. Drysdale.
What a show of hyacinths you must
have ! You beat my mother ; and she is
rather famous for her hyacinths.'

It is very kind of you to say so, sir,'
Mrs. Drysdale acknowledged gratefully.
But I know Scotland cannot compete with
England in garden flowers. Averse to send
to English nurseries for our best roses and
geraniums. But if you like our hyacinths,
I wish you had been a little later and seen
our rerenunculeses. Tam  that's Maister
Drysdale  is very proud of our rerenuncu-

less. They can do nothing to them at
Barley Eiggs.'

Horsburgh, yon wretched stickler for a
syllable,' Sir Hugo attacked his friend when
they were in the privacy of their rooms,
 why did you nearly break down at the * 
" ?'

I cannot tell,' said Horsburgli, grinning
again at the recollection. ' She might as
well have said 'rhinoceroses," when she
was at it.'

You might have upset me,' his companion
continued to reproach the offender
with youthful severity ; ' and rather than
have hurt the good soul I would have swallowed
all the ranunculuses in the world.
Never mind, I saw a vision before you came,
in which I am glad you did not share  you
were not worthy of it.'

Claribel or Eppie, I take it. Well, they
are both handsome enough girls, in different
styles, and they'll have lots of tin.'

Handsome enough!' echoed Sir Hugo

indignantly, while lie did not deign to notice
the mercenary reference to * tin.'

But he said no more.

In the meantime yomig Eppie was hiding
her discomfited blushes in her own room,
where she not only blushed, but cried a little,
she felt so ashamed of herself and of the
discredit she had brought on her family.
Then her sense, of which she was by no
means destitute, came to her aid. It was
no such catastrophe after all. Very likely
Sir Hugo had hardly looked at her. She
could not tell what he was like, or what he
wore, further than that he was slim and
brown like Dr. Peter, yet with an air  she
supposed that of a court  which did not
belong to Dr, Peter. Sir Hugo, if it was
Sir Hugo, must have taken off his overcoat,
for he had on a black coat and a white 
was it a white or a black tie ? she had forgotten
; and no doubt he had forgotten all
about her by this time particularly as he
must have seen she was not grown up.

Then she appeased her tender conscience by
assuring herself that she Avould tell mother
all about it, the moment she came into
the drawing-room. She  Eppie  would
not mind being scolded. Mother's scolding
was not hard to bear  it was when
she was vexed her 3"oung daughter could
not stand it.

At this stage of her reflections Eppie
was able to turn with renewed interest to
her white ' frock '  she called it frock, asher
mother did  and the pink ribands she
was to wear with it, for the evening.

Clary came in dressed, to see what Eppie
was going to make of herself, and did not
notice anything amiss with her sister. But
Clary, from the aesthetic height of one of
her creamy tints, set off by filmy lace,
looked disparagingly at Eppie *s pure, clear
pink ribands.

 Child, I wish you would not always
wear pink objected Claribel. ' Nicol will
bring you some other trimming and put it

on for you. I should say some dim blue,
or even maize or salmon colour, or pale
coral would be better

Thank you, Clary, but I prefer pink,'
said Eppie, with a mind of her own.

You don't know that the colour has gone
out,' Clary explained calmly, from the
stronghold of her superior information.

Have roses gone out ?' inquired Eppie
quickly. Then she coloured, and excused
herself  ' Oh ! Clary, I hope you do not
think I'm prideful, and mean that I am like
a rose.'

Prideful ! I wish you would not use
such words,' exclaimed Clary, more in resigned
despair than in active anger. ' But
whether you are like a rose or not, you are
too pink yourself to wear pink, especially
when nobody else is seen in the colour.'

Mother is seen,' said Eppie, with girlish
dignity, ' and I wish to be like her. There
is nobody else in the whole world that I
should care so much to be like. But

neither of us will ever look so well as
mother.'

Clary shrugged her white shoulders,
then she said good-naturedly :

 I dare say you are right, if my mother
would do herself justice. But because she
has an old-fashioned fancy, I do not see
that is any reason why you should adopt
it

Eppie shook her head and closed her lips.

Claribel said, with a laugh :

I suppose 3' ou must please yourself, you
spoilt child,' and went away.

As if mother did not set [become] pink,
which she wears to please father,' protested
Eppie junior ; ' and if she sets it, I must
set it too, for I am a little like mother.
Anyway, I'll wear it to bear her company.'

During dinner, Tam was bent not only
on getting everybody to do honour to the
good fare, but to do the greater honour because
of the expense and trouble with
which it lead been brought there.

I believe the takes of salmon are not
promising well this jear, Sir Hugie ; every
fish costs five pounds to this day. Let
mother help you to another slice, Teddy
Semple. The lamb ought to be first-rate.
Sir Jeames, from what it fetches. No, we
can do nothing to early peas and penalties
like these in the garden here, till the end of
the month of June, at the surest ; but go
into the market and open your purse-strings,
and you may have sparry grass and strawberries
in January

In vain young Tam, with a heightened
colour, exerted himself to get up dinner-table
talk in a manner foreign to him, while
Clary, in her unruffled beauty, showed the
greatest imperturbability. She was impartially
agreeable to Dick Semple and
Eneas Mackinnon  between whom she sat.
At the same time she took approving note
of every look and word of Hugo's, where he
occupied the place of honour at her mother's
redit hand. Her observation of the latter

was undisturbed by the uncertainty of what
Mrs. Drysdale might be saying to the
Englishman. Clary's good opinion of herself
and her claims helped her to be reasonable.
It enabled her to extend an amnesty
to her relations for whatever offences they
might be guilty of, and to expect the rest
of the world to be equally indulgent. Not
even the excitement of the aspiration she
was indulging, and the rivalry she proposed
to enter upon  all in the most maidenly
way  could provoke her to lose her balance,
or force her to feel nervous, agitated, quickly
vexed.

It was worse with auld Tam when the
wine, on which he piqued himself, came
more to the front. This wine had been
round the world, and that had lain in other
cellars than his, for more than a century.
And here was something from a bin which
only he and another man in Glasgy could
import, at any sacrifice.

Sir Hugo had to explain, in sclf- defence

to save the semicircle of glasses at his
right hand from being filled with a frequency
which only Glasgow heads could stand unimpaired
 that his mother had been captivated
with the information that the Prince
Consort, when he first came to England at
the age of seventeen, had drunk nothing
strong-er than water. she had taken too



drinking water constantly, that her boy
might be reared as simply. The consequence
was that though he had lived to know
what a college * wine ' meant, it was an
acquired taste with him. He could not insincerity
profess, though Mr. Drysdale might
well be shocked at his ignorance, that he,
Sir Hugo, knew much more than the first
rudiments of the subject. He was afraid
his mother had rashly imperilled the chance
of his ever becoming a good judge of wines.
Auld Tam stared a little, and it crossed
his mind how many young Glasgow men
would hold their claim to be gentlemen irreparably
injured by such an admission as Sir

Hugo had not hesitated to make, though he
had incurred his disqualification by following
the example of a prince.

Then Tarn allowed his better nature to
come to the front, and be heard on the
question.

 Your mither must be a good woman,'
he said magnanimously. ' But if she exercised
the same strictness with regard to
your victuals, I should expect to find you
confined to vegetables, like the new sect of
vegetarians, or content with bread and
cheese instead of roast beef.'

Oh no ! we were not anchorites,' said
Sir Hugo, laughing, * though my mother
does not care much what she eats, and she
would have been annoyed to see me set
great store on my plate when I was a bo'.
I believe she was tempted to regard schoolboys
as a combination of ogres and gourmands
; but she always took care that her
friends should not suffer from her theories.'

This is very interesting,' said Lady

Semple. ' I like men and women to strike
out original views

But unfortunately this is not original
said Sir Hugo carelessly. * It merely means
that my mother was a great admirer of
the character of the late Prince Consort.
She set about trying if she could find anything:
in his training to account for the
satisfactory result. She had the presumption
 which may be forgiven in a mother, I
suppose  to seek to graft that something
on her son's experience.'

You must have been a great thocht
to your mither,' said Mrs. Drysdale
simply.

I am afraid I was,' said Sir Hugo,
between jest and earnest ; ' an only son
generally is.'

You may say that ; I ken ifc to my
cost !' exclaimed Mrs. Drysdale, with a look
at young Tam that awoke a laugh.

My impression is that the conversation
is getting too personal  what do you say,

VOL. II. 32

Mr. Tarn Diysdale ?' Sir Hugo appealed to
his fellow-sufferer.

My mother will tell you that only'
sons are either deals or daws/ said young
Tarn.

I have heard of the deil, and I am acquainted
with the daw of Rheims,' said
Sir Hugo ;  but what is he doing here ?
He is not so far removed from a deil as to
form a contrast  he is the incarnation of
mischief. '

 Oh ! but he is a duffer in this instance
explained young Tam.

Well, folks may seek to friclit me as
they like about Sir Hughie Willoughby
sic a grand young gentleman,' Mrs.
Drysdale confided to Lady Semple when
the ladies repaired to the drawing-room.
I'll never heed another word they sa3\
I'm sure he's quite lamely, speaking of his
teddy mither, not as ' my leddy/' but
*' my mither," as freely as my son Tam
might speak of me. I can never think ill

of a young lad that is ready to speak of his
mither, Lady Semple

Think ill, my dear Mrs. Drysdale !
why should jou ? You must think nothing
save good of Sir Hugo. I am sure he is
most anxious to win your favour.'

It is very good of you to say so, my
teddy,' said Eppie senior, with smiling incredulity.
 But what for should he care
to have my favour ? A fine gentleman
has more in his head. He was very
pleasant all the dinner-time, I will say that
for him ; but I was not so besotted as not
to see he would have been the better of
another partner than an auld wife. I
kenned it was ane of the rules of gude
company that he should take me into the
dining-room, but I grudged the necessity
for him  'deed did I. He would have
been far better warred on one of the young
eddies that are ready to look sweet on him
and I cinna blame them, for he's a mast
comely, civil-spoken lad.'

322

'My dear Mrs. Drysdale Lady Semple
protested again, ' you must not depreciate
yourself in this, fashion. What are you
thinking of? You must not call yourself.
*' an auld wife." Why, you'll he teaching
Dick the trick, to practise on me before I
know what I'm about. I am sure you are
ever so many years younger than I am,
and I can tell you I do not mean to be set
aside, in the light of an old woman, for a
dozen years to come.'

But the young folk maun have their
day, and take our place,' pleaded Eppie's
soft voice. ' What have we to do, Teddy
Semple, but make room for them, and proud
to do it ?'

Here is somebody that will not be
made room for,' said Lady Semple, coming
down on young Ep])ie, before she could
spring from the hearth-rug, on which she
had been sitting basking in the glow of the
fire  not unwelcome in the chillness of the
April evening  * somebody in no hurry

to grow up and render lier elders superannuated.
Eppie, do you call your mother
an old woman ?'

Mother old !' cried Eppie, in mingled
indignation and alarm, ' she will not be
old till I am old myself; at least, not till I
am thirty or forty. Father is eight years
older than mother, and he is only a middle-aged
man.'

Listen to her ! That is right, child.
I hope Dick will swear as fervently by my
youthfulness.'

The moment Sir Hugo entered the ,
his eyes fell on young Eppie,
and he tried to get near her. She appeared
to him a more Hebe-like vision than
before  twice as lovely as he had imagined
her. In vain Clary waited for him, keeping
others at a distance. In vain Guy
Horsburgh, tired of the qualities of both
the Miss Yaughans, sought mischievously
to draw his friend into their neighbourhood,
so that Guy might escape honourably

from his station to more attractive quarters,
by bringing within reach of the arrows
showered fruitlessly upon him a more
illustrious, perhaps more vulnerable, prey.
In vain Atliole Murray, who was there
without Dr. Peter, called away to a patient,
was stirred by young Tam's discontent
to glance with lively curiosity at Prince
Charming. He only wanted to be introduced
to young Eppie.

In the meantime the girl, with the
weight of trouble on her mind for what
had happened before dinner, flitted about the
room, to escape the guest of the evening,
in the style of a restless fairy. She was
here and there and everywhere, like an
uncanny will-o'-the-wisp, telling herself, all
the time, that it was a very hard and perverse
chance which made the grand gentleman
torment her by coming in her way.

At last her father arrested Eppio by
putting his hand on her shoulder, with the
surprised exclamation :

Bairn ! have you turned yourself into
a bird, happing from branch to branch T
The next moment he wheeled her round
face to face with the enemy. ' It is my
little girl Eppie, Sir Hugie. Eppie, this
is Sir Hugie Willoughby,' said auld Tarn,
in his singleness of heart.

There was no help for it. She could
not run away again ; she had to behave as
if she had been Clary. She heard the
young man mutter something of having
had the pleasure of seeing Miss Eppie
Drysdale before. But it was a slip of the
tongue. He did not say another word
which could betray the smallest inclination
to expose her. He did not even speak of
pictures or flowers. He only asked her if
she liked yachting, and had ever spent
two or three days at sea  idle questions,
evidently for the purpose of making conversation.
They could have no reference
to the grievous scandal of his having found
her, when it was time for the guests to

assemble in the picture-gallery, vitli dirty
hands, * topsy ' hair, and a torn frock,
and of her having run off, without waiting
to beg his pardon, leaving such an old
slipper behind her.

As Eppie saw oblivion settling down on
the scrape she had got into, she began to
recover her courage, to look Sir Hugo in
the face, and to think, like her mother,
that he was not so grand, and not ' fearsome
' at all. He seemed younger than
young Tam, and kind and merry. She was
ready to commit more solecisms by chattering
to him of 'Beardie,' her Newfoundland,
'White Breeks Barley Biggs and all the
beasts there, little deaf Willie Finlay, the
Glasgow shops, and whatever else came into
her head, when she was prevented by somebody
calling upon her to sing.

For young Eppie's gift of singing native
ballads was already so decided, and so well
known, that where it was concerned, she
had broken the chrysalis of her nonage.

She was accustomed to make such music
wherever it was in request  at home, at
Barley Riggs, even at Semple Barns, without
thought or fear, as a matter of course.
Clary would play the accompaniments, and
Eppie would sing, in her fresh, sweet,
tuneful voice, ' Logan Braes,' or ' The
bonnie, bonnie broom o' Cowdenknowes,'
a room full of people hanging on her
notes, as on the carol of some wonderful
bird.

To-night she sang a quaint, old-fashioned
ditty  which was a favourite of auld Tam's,
and for that matter of young Eppie's. It
had some appropriateness to those who
knew the singer. It began with the wistful
appeal of a mother to her son  probably
an only son, like Sir Hugo or young Tarn :

Whaup hare you been a' day,

]\Iy boy Tammy %
Whaup hare you been a' day,
Ivy boy Tammy f

Tammy, thus adjured, has the candour
and tender tact to reply :

I've been by burn and flowery brae,
Meadow green and mountain grey,
Courting' o' this young thing,

Just come frae her mammy.'

The mother, not propitiated, goes onto
ask :

An' whaup got ye that young thing,

My boy Tammy ?
Whaup got ye that young thing,
My boy Tammy V

To which the son gives answer :

I got her toon in yonder howe.
Smiling on a bonny knowe,
Herding ae wee lamb an' ewe

For her pair mammy.'

Then he makes a frank statement of his
wooing of  the yomig thing with her resistance
to his suit and naive assertion of
the claims of his powerful rival :

The smile gazed aff her bonnie face,

I mauna leave my mammy ;
She's given me meat, she's given me class.
She's been my comfort a' my days ;
My father's death brocht monte was

I china leave my mammy."

55 J

The difficulty is triumphantly overcome by
the lover's generosity :

" We'll tak' her hame and mak' her fain,

My ain kind-hearted lammie ;
We'll give her meat, we'll give her class.
We'll be her comfort a' her days."
The wee thing gives her hand, an' says,
There, gang an' ask my mammy." '

The little drama winds up with the approving
question from the other mother 
large-hearted like her son :

Has she been to the kirk wi' thee,
My boy Tammy ?
Has she been to the kirk wi' thee,

My boy Tammy ?' 

To which there is the glad, soft assurance
:

She has been to the kirk Avi' me.
An' the tear was in her ere ;
For oh ! she's but a young thing.
Just come frae her mammy.'

Mrs. Drysdale furtively wiped her eyes,
auld Tarn cleared his throat ; Sir Hugo
listened like one entranced, and haunted
Eppie till the party broke up.

I did not know Willougliby was so
fond of music,' Guy Horsburgh turned the
matter over in his mind.

Talk of Sir Hugo not giving himself
airs !' said one of the Yaudian sisters.
What do you call a young man's neglecting
grown-up people to amuse himself with
an unformed child, if such conduct cannot
be classed as airs ?'

He's making his way with the little one
as one means of getting at Claribel. I
don't know that it is necessary, and I did
not think that young men had been so
modest nowadays, but it is refreshing that
it is so,' Lady Semple settled dogmatically.

Claribel witnessed the first secession from
the ranks of her admirers, the first preference
on the part of one of them for
her younger sister, with a shade of wonder,
but with no other visible emotion, unless it
were a tinge of amusement. She was so
completely mistress of herself that she gave
no sign of responding to the dog-like devotion

of Eneas Mackinnon stepping forward
to fill once more the vacant place  from
which he had been at no distant date unceremoniously
ousted  looking at her with
long, wistful looks. She only made an
easy suggestion :

Will you help me with this portfolio,
Mr. Mackinnon ? There are some watercolour
sketches in it, which my father
bought the other day, that I should like to
show to Lady Semple. Thanks. Do you
care to see them too ? Oh, if you like.'

That night Clary, in her dressing-gown,
went into her sister's room, where Eppie
was combing her hair, with her eyes
closing.

What is it. Clary ?' asked Eppie in
surprise, starting round wide awake. * Is
there anything the matter ?'

Nothing at all,' answered Clary lightly,
and began talking and laughing over the
events of the evening  how people had
looked and spoken, how much improved

Guy Horsburgli was. Then she asked what
was Eppie's opinion of Sir Hugo, now that
she had seen him.

Eppie was quite ready to give it. He
was just Hke other people, she thought,
only a good deal nicer. Could it be possible
that he had such a wonderful old house,
and was cousin to an earl, and might go to
Court and speak to the Queen ?

Be spoken to by her, you mean,' corrected
Clary.

 Well, isn't it the same thing ?' asked
unsophisticated Eppie. ' I did not have
time to ask him about the Queen. I don't
think he would have minded though I had.
He looked as if he would be easier to live
with than our Tam  not that I would like
to change Tam, though he is forty sometimes,'
with sudden relenting towards her
brother.

I don't suppose Sir Hugo understands
what '' forty " means,' said Clary, raising
her eyebrows.

 Oh ! but you're wrong, Clary,' said
Eppie very decidedly ; ' lie told me that he
understood every word I sang. He had
read Burns, and was fond of Sir Walter.
I was just going to ask him which was his
favourite character in the Waverley Novels,
when Mr. Horsburgh came to say the trap
was at the door.'

You may have another opportunity of
asking him,' said Clary, a little vaguely.
In the meantime, I came in to tell you that
you sang your best, and looked very well
in your white and pink. I am not sure
that pink is not the most becoming colour
for you, after all. But I should like you
to have a pink C)'ci[)e de chine, or something
of that sort, made by Madame Sophie.
Pink and silver,' repeated Clary, with the
air of a connoisseur ; ' I think that would
suit you.'

Oh, Clary !' was all that Eppie could
say, for she was by no means insensible to
the promotion.

Clary's dressmaker and pink crepe de chine
and silver  the very idea was a high compliment.


You see I am proud of my pretty little
sister, though I don't wish to make her
vain,' said Clary, kissing Eppie with real
affection, before the elder lighted her candle
and disappeared.

Eppie gasped. Clary proud of her!
She lay awake for fully ten minutes
puzzling over the flattering problem. She
had always known that Clary liked her, in
the light of their near relationship, though
Clary tormented her with silas for improvement,
and made her furious by proposing
to send her away from home. Still
Clary was sorry when she  Eppie  was
ill, and did her best for her, and proved to
her that her sister was fond of her in Clary's
quiet, self-occupied fashion. But 'proud'
was a very different feeling  proud of
little, Scotch-speaking, blundering Eppie,
with her lack of accomplishments !

Eppie felt bound iu honour to tell Clary
what had happened in the picture-gallery.
The girl took the next opportunity when
she and Clare happened to be in the garden
together the following morning. But
Clary only laughed, and said :

Never mind  what could have put it
into your head to run away ? Don't do it
again. On the contrary you ought to
learn to make the best of yourself. But
though it would not look well in me to be
childish and silly, I don't believe either Sir
Hugo or any other man will take it ill on
your part.'

Clary was not speaking sarcastically  -
she was in perfect good faith.

Eppie did not gasp again, but she
lingered behind by the violet-bed, lotting
Clary stroll on. In truth, Eppie was overcome
by the delicious consciousness of
some attraction in her which disarmed
hostility. She knew she was Iili:e her
mother, for everybody said so. Therefore

VOL. TT. 33

she must be a little bonnie, but she had
never suspected that she was so bonnie as
Clary's words seemed to imply. The discovery
did not fill Eppio's head with nonsense,
as her father and mother would have
said : for she began, after a moment's
innocent elation, to distrust the existence
of youthful beauty, and to seek to undervalue
it, if it where there. She was well
enough ; she might be rather bonnie, inasmuch
as she had a share of mother's looks ;
but for the rest, it was only a foolish fancy
of Clary's, for which Eppie was much
obliged to her sister, and would always
like her the better for it. She was handsome,
like a picture, like a queen. Eppie
would never look like that  not that it
mattered very much when beauty was only
skin-deep, and people liked each other just
as well without it. Would father and
mother care for her a grain less though she
were to be seized with small-pox tomorrow,
and be left a disfigured object for the rest

of her days ? There was Thole Murray.
Everybody said, and Eppie's eyes told her,
that Thole was plain, in spite of her eyes,
with a wide mouth and a dumpy nose ;
but then she was so clever and nice ; and
Eppie shrewdly suspected, if nobody else
did, that young Tam would sooner have a
pleasant word from Thole Murray's witty
tongue than all the smiles of all the beauties
in Glasgow'.

The truth was, Clary had seen Eppie
with another person's eyes, and her own
were too reasonable to remain sealed in
such a case. She had received an enlightenment.
It was the first tribute, little
as Eppie suspected it, to the possibility of
her becoming Lady Willoughby of Willoughby
Court, or some equally distinguished
person, and Clary was ready
to pay the tribute. There was nothing
grudging or magnanimous in the young
woman's pride.

Tarn,' Mrs. Eppie confided to her

332

husband in the privacy of their luxurious
chamber, after she had sung the praises of
Sir Hugo till she had nearly sung auld
Tarn asleep, * did you not see that he was
ta'en with our bairn T

What J Clary !' cried Tarn, rousing himself
to the dawning glory of becoming
father-in-law to a baronet and squire of
many acres.

 No, Eppie ; the lamb, who had no more
thoclit of what was in the lad's mind than
when she was a wee thing playing round
my knee.'

Then leave her without the thoclit,*
said Tam gruffly. ' For shame, woman,
to even a cassock like her to a lad of on'
kind, boon a' to a lad by rickets no in
her ain station  here the day, and wa'
the morn ! She's not dreaming of lads,
and you may catch her leal licht heart and
brush the bloom aff, like the dew from the
gowans in the morning, and break it before
she's weel in her teens.'

I never said I would breathe a word
o't to her, Tarn ; I would not be so bold.
A young lassie's heart is like the kirk itself'
no to be lightly entered said Mrs. Drysdale
reproachfully ; ' and what for should
I seek to promote sic a distinction for little
Eppie ? Lifted up and lonely, and torn
from a' her friend's ; her that is friendly
and fond of her ain folk ! You and me
never to see her again, or ken right how
she's sarin', unless since or twice in as
mony years ! All the same, the fine lad's
ta'en with the bairn. You may tak* my
word for it, Tam.'

And all the same, you would gie her to
him, and hae your reward in kennin' young
Eppie a fine teddy, though everything were
to happen as you say.'

I would not stand in her road, Tam;
nor would you,' said Mother Eppie, v>dth
spirit.

Have it any way you like then, and let
me sleep,' said auld Tam, with a pretence

at despair.  But mind, the felly's going
back to Cambridge in little more than a
week, and there's small chance of our seeing
his face again, even if he had not uncles
and aunties, and what not, to come dorrit
and cry out at his demeaning himsel' to
think of matching his title with a bleacher
and dyer's dochter/

 He's coming back to see mair of Scotland
and Glasgy in the Long Vacation. I heard
him say that myself'; and he's of age and
his ain maister, with a gude mither, that
Teddy Semple says would never conter him
in ony thing he set his heart on, that was
right ! And you ken, Tam, you're a man
m a big way  no just a common bleacher
and dyer ; while you've often felled me
bleaching' and dein' and calico-printing' will
come to the front 01 the trees. You can
gie your twa lasses muckle others. No
doubt I would be wae for my bonnie bairn
to gang so far wa' from me, where I could
not see her sweet face illa day of my life,

though she would never forget you and
me, however we were sneered, for a' her
gi-auteur  that I'll come bund for. But,
eh, Tam, to thmk of our ain little Eppie
being *'my teddy" !'

 Hoot, wa' with you, big Eppie ! you're
takin' leave of your senses!' Tam put an
end to the conversation.

But though he was too much of a man
to own it, the feminine ambition tickled
him mightily. He fell asleep and dreamt
now of saying an eternal farewell to his
darling  now of seeing her with a coronet
on her head (it was easy to change a
baronet into a baron in a dream)  on her
way to a State ball at Buckingham Palace,
or the opening of the House of Lords, he
was not sure which.

SIR HUGO DRAWN BY ' LE GRAND SIMPLE.'

Before Sir Hugo quitted Glasgow and returned
to Cambridge, lie rode out and paid
a call at Drvsdale Hall, instead of leaving
this card. But lie was not shown into the
picture-gallery. No Cinderella was about
the drawing-room or the hall. Indeed, he
was unfortunate in missing both of the
daughters of the house, who were in Glasgow.
He only saw Mrs. Drysdale, and his
solitary small consolation was in earnestly
recommending himself to that friendly
woman.

During this conversation. Sir Hugo
eauaht at the casual mention of a lecture

'tD'

on Health, to be given by Dr. Peter Murray
to the work people at Drsdale Haugh, at

wliicli some of the members of their employer's
family were to be present. He was
not familiar with any lectm-es except university
lectures. He had never been at a
lecture to operatives. He had heard of
Dr. Peter Murray as an original  not a
mute, but a comparatively inglorious  man
of learning and science.

The young Englishman worried Guy
Horsburgh into taking him to listen to
what Guy was persuaded was not in
Sir Hugo's line ; anyhow, Sir Hugo was
punished for his pains. The lecture was
clever and well delivered, as well as homely
and practical. Moreover, the operatives
came to hear it. Among them was Lady
Semple, whose last hobby was hygiene.
But the deputation from Drysdale Hall
consisted of auld Tam and young Tam,
who had got up the lecture, and Mrs. Drysdale,
who accompanied her husband from
pure love of his company, and because she
owed Thole Murray a visit.

After all, the scene of Dr. Peter's lecture
was not a likely place in which to meet
Clary and Eppie. But in spite of the
unreasonableness of his expectations, Sir
Hugo felt a good deal disgusted by their
non fulfilment, and for a time put up his
back at the whole affair, in a manner that
would have tended to impair his universal
popularity, had not his genial temper recovered
itself before it was too late. Then,
in the revulsion of feeling, he began to admire
the lecture, the lecturer, the audience
of respectable, hard-headed, sound-hearted
working men and women almost as extravagantly
as he had admired everything in
Glasgow. And the young man was positively
enchanted with Barley Biggs, to which
he and his friend Horsburgh went, on the
hospitable invitation of Dr. Peter, to have a
cup of tea with Lady Semple and the Drysdales
at Miss Murray's tea-table, before
they returned home to dinner.

Sir Hugo had no particular thirst for tea,

but the enthusiastic side of his temperament
was caught by the new surroundings. He
had only twice before made the acquaintance
of establishments equally plain and simple,
and at the same time bearing unmistakable
marks of culture  once when he was at
school in Germany, and once in the house
of a professor at Harvard, which he had
visited during a tour in America the previous
summer. In each case he had fallen
violently in love with the example. What
appeared to Sir Hugo the quaint homeliness,
together with the real refinement, and in
the case of Barley Riggs, the little foreign
touches which showed that a man had travelled
afar and yet kept faithful to his first
love, seized hold of his impulsive fancy,
just as Eppie Drysdale's rusticity and exquisite
sweetness had captivated the same
rampant imagination.

Sir Hugo persuaded himself that le,
(grand simple was his hem ideal, that he
cared little for the local standing and

antiquarian glory of Willoughby Coui-t  at
least, that if he were not Sir Hugo, he
would be a young Dr. Peter, and that, on
the whole, he would prefer to be a Dr. Peter.
He was sure that he would like, above all
things, to have such a study, parlour, and
having-room as that at Barley Piiggs, to be
waited on hy a single rosy-cheeked maidservant,
to go and come when he chose,
to be refreshed by tea and a poached <,
or a slice of mutton ham, instead of a
dinner of half a dozen courses. The notion
belonged to the attributes which had rendered
Sir Hugo, ten years before, the most
eager young mock Robinson Crusoe that
ever sprang from a high civilization. He
was very boyish still, in spite of his easy
good-breeding and his having come into his
kingdom. What young Eppie Drysdale
called ' the heap of beasts ' at Barley Eiggs
was as fascinating to him as to her. It was
night, and they were most of them in their
sheds and roosts ; but a few streamed forth

sidling, fluttering, barking, mewing, twittering
 to hail their owners. Sir Hugo
would have liked to provide himself with
Dr. Peter's lantern and go round on a tour
of inspection. The lovely moonlight in
some respects supplied the place of the lantern,
and shone white on the wealth of spring
flowers and on the cribs and perches of the
animals.

There must be something subtle and intoxicating
in moonlight ; if not in all moonlight,
in special kinds, such as that which
shone on Barley Kiggs this night, and got
into the brains of all the younger persons
present, so that Dr. Peter could hardly keep
them in order. They would not rest at
Thole's tea-table, nor could its mistress be
said to do much to detain them. She fulfilled
her duties, certainly, but when they
were done she was on the wing like the
others, not to lose the moonlight ; as if
moonlight were not cheap and common 
almost as much so as sunshine  to be ]had

on so many fine nights a month, the whole
year round, during all the years of all the
centuries. No doubt there were favourable
conditions which were not always available,
such as weather unusually balmy for a Scotch
spring, a pleasant garden to wander in, a
group of young people  three young men
and two girls, for Thole had a Glasgow girl
visiting her  thrown together by chance,
and suddenly developing undreamed - of
elements of good fellowship. When these
extraordinary advantages did occur, perhaps
it was well to improve the occasion. It
might have been the fact of having been
caged up with the rest of the assembly for
an hour in a schoolroom, listening to a
lecture of any kind, and then let loose like
so many school children. It might have
been latent impulses stirring young hearts.
Whatever the reason, these older boys and
girls, all of them, including young Tam,
were gay and unrestrained. They made
much merry movement and noise as they

tramped and flitted about the garden ;
stooped to examine and insist upon the
points of flowers and vegetables; were mad
enough to seek for birds' nests by the
moonbeams, and disturbed the domestic
privacy of two broods of ducks and chickens
and a litter of puppies, to expatiate and
dispute on the rival merits of the flabby,
woolly specimens.

At length, the quieter company within
doors  Dr. Peter, Lady Semple, auld Tam,
and Mrs. Drysdale  were brought to the
door to see what the commotion was about,
whether treasure-trove had turned up in the
garden, or treason was being plotted in the
usually peaceful domain.

Thole Murray, Sir Hugo, and young
Tam were the ringleaders. Thole's friend
and Guy Horsburgh were merely serving
as echoes. Thole was marching between
her two squires, and was bantering them
impartially. Did Sir Hugo really approve
of the moon ? Had he ever gone amounting

by its light ? Had he shot a wandering
calf for a stag royal ? Was Mr. Tom
prepared to treat moonlight as a colour, and
to bring it out in chemicals ? There were
moonlight beads, why not moonlight calicoes
? Might she be allowed to draw the
pattern, and call it the lunatic design ?

Both the young men were answering her
in the same vein, and young Tanii was
speaking as briskly and with as much idle
glee as Sir Hugo spoke ; the moonlight
had touched and transformed him. For
the moment he was as unthinking and
unheeding as a young man need be. The
inequalities of life had ceased to exist for
him. He was impervious to his own lack
of desist and hopelessness of attaining his
ends. He feared nothin,i>-, and anticipated
nothing.

Snatches of the senseless gaiety, whelp
was getting slightly wild, reached the listeners,
and coming from certain sources
bewildered the hearers. Mrs. Drysdale,

especially, was much exercised by what she
saw and heard, and confided her perplexity
to its natural recipient on the drive homeward.


 I have always had a regard lor that lassie
of Dr. Peter's she began slowly ; '' for one
thing, she's a motherless lassie, and she has
played her part well, and been a gude housekeeper
and a gude doctor to her lather  
honest man. I have aye thought her a fine
lassie, beyond the common, with her management,
and industry, and sense, though maybe
Dr. Peter has spoiled her with learning' ; yet
she's not conceited. I never reckoned her
anything' but modest and unaffected, and as
gude company as if she bad never opened a
look. But, weel-a-wat she's no ]bonnie 
a becket thing with a muckle mouth.
What a fine lad and grand gentleman like
Sir Hughie can see in her, to daft" [jest]
with her as he war coin' the night, passes
my comprehension.'

Every man to his maid,' said Tarn a
VOL. II. 34

little stiffly'. ' Jut your new friend Sir
Hiigie seems to have a vai'iet3 of minds.
However, he's welcome. Nobody will
object.'

Oh, I pay little heed to a lad, whatever
his rank, been' led wa' by a bit of fnnnin'
with a lass, and enjoying* it at his age,* said
Mrs. Drysdale quickly. ' More by token,
there was nobody he liked better standing' by ;
and I'm willing' to make every allowance fora
lassie such as Thole Murray  a clever
lassie with a quick tongue that lives alone
with an auld man, however fond she maybe
of him, and is fain to get her head outwith
her kind, whiles. But what troubles
me is that she has the face to laugh at or
Tarn, who is so far boon her in his solidity
and superiority, as if he had been ony trifling*
lad like Sir Hughie.'

If you noticed so much as that, mother,'
said Tam with decision, * you might have
gone farther and seen that the felly did not
Und faut with born' laughed at bv her; he

was canyiu' her on as if the joke were
marry to his banes

It would hae been a pity in him to condescend
to be wrathful,' said Eppie, holding
her head high ; 'but she should mind what
she's about, and no' take sic liberties  they
are no' becoming' in a young lass.'

x\nd so should he mind,' corrected Tarn,
holding the scales more evenly between the
offending parties, and speaking sharply, ' for
this will never do.'

What will never do, Tam ?' cried Eppie,
in a high key of mingled indignation and
derision. * Have you gave gate [lost
your senses] ? Do you think for a moment
that or Tam, who has but to wag his
finger to have the bonniest, bravest lassie,
with the biggest tocher in Glasgy, could be
in earnest in making' up to a plain-lookin',
ill-dressed lassie like Atholc Murray ?'

You women think owe muckle of looks
and class [dress,' protested Tam.

Well, it's the first time I've heard you

342

men cast faith at them,' declared Eppie
sarcastically.

Anyway,' cried Tarn, * there's mair roads
to a man's heart than by his been  and mair
roads to please them in, too, than by lily
skins and red cheeks, utrecht noses and wee
mous  though these are all gude things of
their kind. I'm no' disputing' it. I'm the
last man that should dispute it  eh, Eppie,
my doo ! But I dare says if it were examined
into, men like Tam are as often
caught by their lugs [ears] as by their
been, and you'll own that lassie has a tongue
that would wile a bird from a tree.'

I own nothing of the sort,' said
Mother Eppie, fairly nettled ; ' a tongue
that would clip clouts [cut cloth], if that is
what you mean. I never heard sic nonsense
as you've been speaking' the night, Tam.'

I expected yow to say sae,' said Tam
composedly; 'yet not five minutes syne
you were praising the lass to the masthead
you began b} not finding' words gude

o

enough to wale upon her. And you were
right,' said Tarn, with sudden emphasis.
 She's a perfect teddy  as my auld friend,
whom I'm proud to call sae, Dr. Peter, is
every inch a gentleman ; she's a lass among
a thousand. Dod ! when I think of what
she did for the auld Miss Mackinnons, I
could find it in my heart not only to war
[spend] Tam upon her, but to count him
not half gude enough for her, and a happy
and honoured man if he could get her.'

Tam, or Tam !' gasped poor Mrs. Drysdale,
overcome by the infatuation of another
of her men-folk. ' But you never thocht
enough of my fine sedate lad. The lassie's
weel enough, forbye she has not a mither.
I never said an ill word of her ; but you're
clean daft about her  a black-advice [dark
complexions thing. I would not give a
five-pound note for every seek [stitch]
in her possession.'

 You need not fash your head, Eppie, my
woman,' said Tam more soberly. ' If a

man lives in the world, lie has to use the
world's measurements. I ken what folk
would think and say. For all Thole
Murray's rudeness and cleverness, and
though she's a teddy born and bred, they
would hold her as little better than a mill-hand
or a bleacher  a plain-headed, insig-
nificant-looking lass, without a penny, that
drew patterns for the pattern-shop. They
would say that young Tarn had demeaned
himself, instead of risen' a step higher in
the world. Na, na ; it will not do. Whether
young Tam and her are wooing' Scotch
fashion, or waging war, there must be an
end of it. She's a gude doctor, and a
word to Dr. Peter would be enough, as I
would let the chief, who'll never have done
with his maggots [whims, ken on the
deafest side of his head. But I want no
unpleasantness with an old friend that I can
help. The folly may blow over, or die a
natural death of itself; or the lassie, who
luis wit enough to see round a corner, may

put an end to it by liavin' no more to say
to the perverse beggar.'

thole Murray no more to say to yomig
Tarn !' echoed young Tarn's mother almost
faintly, in her horror at the supposition.
She was unable to add any more stinging-suggestion
than what was summed up in
Miss Janet Mackinnon's favourite protest,
Set her up !'

Lady Semple had her version of the
garden scene, which she confided to the
pages of her diary.

that boy, Sir Hugo, does need somebody
to look after him. I wish Claribel
Drysdale would be quick in taking him in
hand, or she may lose her chance, and there
may be other losses. Is he falling in love
all round, as an introduction to a grand
passion for Claribel ? These introductions
are not always to be trusted. It was all
very well to pay his devoirs to the little
sister, and ensure her being on his side, but
what lias Miss murray got to do with it '?

There is something piquant about that girl
the dangerous fascination which enables
some plain women to get the better of all the
pretty ones. I am not sure that if she
cared she might not be a greater social success
than Claribel  more original, dacier.
But the thing is not to be thought of for a
moment. The plain daughter of a country
doctor, without the ghost of a fortune ! It
would be using poor dear Lady Willoughby
quite too badly to entertain the idea for a
second  indeed, not to take strong steps to
guard against it, if it were not that Sir
Hugo is going back to his tutor in a week
at the latest. (I wish the man joy of his
charge ; such romantic boys are nearly as
bad as beauvais siijcts; I am glad Dick's
romance has taken a different form.) Besides,
Dr. Peter Murray is the soul of
honour ; there is nothing to be feared from
him ; on the contrary, if he dreamed of such
an absurdity, I do believe he would be the
first to put a stop to it.'

It was true that Dr. Peter took Thole to
task  very gently, however, and in a few
words  before the night was over.

My dear, I think you let your spirits runaway
with you. In the first place, you
ought to have stayed in the house and entertained
the married ladies. Then one of
them was Lady Semple, and though she
sets little store on her rank, in a general
way, that is no reason why we should do the
same. You ought to have kept Annie
[Thole 's visitor] with you, and left the lads
to divert themselves as they liked in the
moonlit garden. There was no great harm
done, but it was not like you to be so '

 So '' road " ' [foolishly gay].

Thole took the word out of his mouth,
using one of the Doric expressions which
the Drysdale Haugh mothers applied to their
riotous children. She shook her head and
smiled a little, while her face was pale, as if
the reflection of the moonlight was still
upon it.

I don't know what came over me. I
suppose I wanted a " rallying " [frolic], as
girls like Jeannie say in self-defence. It was
ill-judged and ill-bred. I shall take care it
does not happen again ; but one has such a
desire sometimes to cast care  which means
decorum in this instance  to the winds, let
one's spirits loose, and give the reins to the
impulse of the moment  in fact, to be carried
away like a mad creature for G.ye minutes 
when one is pretty sure to be brought up by
some scrape, and feel sorry and ashamed for
the next twenty-four hours.'

As for the two men who had matched
Thole, one of them, young Tam, was not
well out of her presence before he suffered a
collapse.

Sir Hugo held out longer. ' Miss Murray
is simply charming,' he told Guy Horsburgh
with effusion, provoking Guy to cry'. * Hold,
enough ! Willoughby, we'll have you in
ecstasies with my grandmother next.'

Tory OF THE SHELTIES COME ALIVE AGAIN.

Sir Hugo Willoughby had gone back to
Cambridge, vowing fervently to return in
the course of the summer. The injustice
done to him was that everybody did not
treat his vows as they deserved, but called
to mind the cynical assertion that promises
are, like pie-crust, made to be broken.

The Drysdales' set in Glasgow, with
Drysdale Hall and Semple Barns, had returned
to their normal interests. The
individual who, in the end, was the least
disturbed by the advent of Sir Hugo, who
had most nearly forgotten him, was young
Eppie. She was more occupied with the
annual transfer of the family for the month

of June, from Drysdale Hall to ' Glasgow
clown the water with the daily visits to the
pier to see her father go and come, the
mornings when she was to wile him away
from Glasgow, that he might spend them
with her and her mother on the Clyde ; the
evenings when she was to coax him to
take out Beardie to scour the hills or the
sands. Her mind was more engrossed with
a Newhaven fishwife's costume of pink and
white and dark blue, which Clary had
actually encouraged her to get, and with
the sea-mew's wing which young Tam had
given to her. These shining attractions were
enough to supersede all the grand young
English squires and baronets that had ever
existed for young Eppie yet.

Trade was undergoing a shrinking process
after its tremendous expansion. The horizon
was already clouding over for many of the
speculators. Auld Tam was not without a
premonition that he also had been over-daring,
and too splendidly far-reaching in

his schemes. He might need all his resources
before the ends met. Still he had
no fear. He would weather the back-draught
of the tide, when the high waters
of prosperity had ebbed to the lowest mark
of adversity  that as a matter of course ;
he would also ride triumphantly, as he had
always done, over every obstacle.

No, auld Tam's troubles at this time were
still born in the bosom of his family. Younjf
Tarn, though he went on steadily enough
with the business, and began to be an
efficient aid to his father, disappointed him
all the more by continuing to keep out of
society, and to do all his visiting at Barley
Eiggs, as if that were the sole house he
cared to visit. Auld Tam could not lind
that his son received any encouragement
beyond the merest friendly hospitality. Indeed,
Thole was not even ostensibly
friendly. Perhaps it would have been safer
if she had been a calm matter-of-fact friend,
rather than a jesting foe  not always so

much in jest that there was not a spice of
wayward earnestness in her hostility. As
for Dr. Peter, in the innocence of his heart,
he suspected no ulterior motive ; and auld
Tarn hated to be the man to open his friend's
eyes and to reveal himself in a new character,
that of the tyrannical parent and hardened
man of the world. Claribel, too, was fretting
her father. After the brief interlude
of Sir Hugo's passing across the stage,
when she had turned round and paused,
in a waiting attitude, for what fortune might
bring her, she had gone back  not so much
into receiving Eneas Mackinnon's attentions,
for he did not take it upon him to pays her
attentions which he could not vindicate bv
a statement of his prospects next day  but
by the accepting of his mute allegiance.
She was getting herself associated with
him, talked of in connection with him.
Lady Semple was beginning to look grave,
to forbid Dick to bring his friend so constantly
to Semple Barns if Claribel was

there, and to give them separate partners at
dinner.

The fact that Tarn had helped the old Miss
Maekinnons in their strait, only served to
incense him further with their grand-nephew,
for having* the consummate audacity, while
he passed for the most modest of men, to
dangle after Clary, constitute himself her
dumb waiter, the peg for her opera-cloak or
shawl the fetcher and carrier of her bouquet
and fan, the runner of her errands, the trainer
of her dog, the consulting physician of her
horse. It was not that auld Tam had not
the justice to admit that young Mackinnon's
position, in the absence of money, crippled
him cruelly from doing anything worth
speaking of either for his aunts or for himself.
But it was the fact that in such
desperate circumstances he had the assurance
and selfishness to admire Clary, and get
round a sensible, high-spirited girl like her,
until he was tempting her to peril her
brilliant prospects, which enraged her father.

If lie did not take care she would find that
she had gone too far to stop without incurring
the accusation of being a flirt and a
jilt, and there were few reputations a woman
could earn that appeared more odious in her
father's eyes.

But to interfere in the affairs of a girl
so calm, so much the mistress of herself
and the situation as Clary was, in order to
tell her one or two wholesome truths, was
an exercise of a father's duties almost as
repugnant to Tam as he found the obligation
of hinting to Dr. Peter thafc Tam's son
went too often to Barley Biggs, and ought
not to be encouraged in such a waste of
time. Fancy Clary's large, rather light eyes,
the most defective feature in her face, fixed
on her father's with a mesmerizing effect,
while he, and not she, was the agitated
person ! Imagine her voice, in slightly
ironical accents, telling him in the spirit, if
not in the letter, that she was quite able to
take care of herself, he need not trouble this

head about her  she knew perfectly well
what she was doing !

One May evening, just before dinner, Tarn
was in the business-room which he had got
fitted up for himself at Drysdale Hall. It
was a very different place from his office in
Glasgow or his office at Drysdale Haugh
Works. The common use to which it was
put was that of interviewing and paying
the wages of domestic servants ; but beyond
this, it indicated Drysdale Hall to be a
landed estate, and the master of Drysdale
Hall a laird. Tam, like most traders who
have acquired land, had, as has been said,
a special pride in his fields and in all that
related to them. He relished playing at
laird and farmer, and was nearly as bent on
heading the markets and agricultural shows
with his crops and cattle, as on witching the
world by his dyes and printing. His business-room
was supplied with samples of seeds
and grain, while the walls were hung round
with such illustrations of succulent roots,

VOL. II. 35

and reaping and sowing machines, and such
likenesses of fat cattle as one sees at railway
stations in agricultural counties, h.
spud, with which Tarn sometimes armed
himself on the rare occasions when he
spent an idle morning at home, stood in a
corner.

Tam would sit among these suggestive
touches, as a Justice of the Peace, in addition
to heiug the master of Drysdale Hall,
and dispense law after the fashion of Sir
Thomas Lucy. But he was decidedly
popular loth as a laird and a magistrate 
to an extent far more than is usual in a
self-made man. A sense of his accessihility
which prosperity had not diminished, of his
freedom from assumption and pretence which
existed side bj side with his simple  one is
tempted to say honest  vanity, of his inflexible
fairness and human-hearted kindliness,
more than outweighed the grudge at
his rise in life and magnificent success.

As a result of his popularity, Tam was

subjected to intrusions from other persons
than policemen, poachers, and county depredators
generally. He was apt to be called
upon to arbitrate ex officio between his
humbler neighbours in the country, as between
his bigger neighbours in the town.
He had no doubt that he was required to
judge between such a pair of brethren when
two men of the lower class, but sufficiently
unlike each other in most things, were shown
into his sanctum, unattended by any member
of the rural police, on the evening in
question. Both men were Highlanders, but
it was a few minutes before Tam recognised
the able-bodied fellow to be Sir James
Semple's dog-man. The other, a miserable
scarecrow, with a wild eye, shambled as he
walked, and lugged under the arm of his
faded tartan coat a battered knapsack.

Well, lads, what complaint have you to
judge, or advice to seek, the night ?' asked
Tam courteously.  Stop, are you not one
of Sir Jeames's folk ? I thocht so. Arc

.352

they all well at Semple Barns ? Now, what
have you to say T

It's no me that has ony thing to say, Mr.
Drysdale said the voluble Sandy Macnab,
immediately becoming spokesman. ' It is
this crater that Bawby Sed, the trailing',
clashing' [gadding, gossiping] sony  nae
thanks to her for the job  threw on my
hands mair than a year syne. He's been
in Gaiinavel since then, but in his wits or
foot o' his wits, which were but cat's wits to
begin wi' '

You may keep a weevil tongue in your
head,' said Tam indignantly * you have not
sic a grip o' your ain wuts that 3'ou should
cast in his teeth that his have been to seek
since yours came back to you.'

No offence,' said Sandy, showing the
example.  But if you only kenned, sour
honour, how I'm tried with the vermin 
you may glower [stare] but he's no better
you would not fash for his feeling's. He
has nae feeling's that I can find, and he does

not follow a word I say, unless it be about
the ae blether that's gotten ito the daft
pow [head] 0' him.'

It appeared as if Sandy were right, for
not a trace of consciousness of the unceremonious
remarks made upon him crossed the
ugly, foxy, yet vacant face  from which
almost every gleam of anything higher than
the cunning of an animal had disappeared.
Tam Drysdale glanced at the man with a
mixture of pity and repugnance.

What can I do ?' asked Tam, in perplexity.
' Why hae you brought the miserable
chief to me T

Weel, the long and the short of it is,
that in his wuts or out of his wits, as I was
saying', he has gone on mandarin' [droning]
about Drysdale Haugh, in connection
with ane Mackinnon.'

'Stay!' said auld Tam; 'where did I
hear some story of the kind ? I mind now ;
and it was about a man in Gartnavel, too.'

A' right, sir. Tut see how the wild eon

o' tLc crater are liclitiii' up, au' lie's clutching'
at the kistie under bis oxter [arm]. So
long as lie was in Gartnavel lie miclit
maunder as lie liked ; it would a' gang to
the general account  nobody would listen
to the drivel ; but now that he's discharged
cured  a fell-like cure, when he's ten times
sillier than before  I thocht it behoved me
to communicate wi' you or Captain .
It might concern a gentleman's
credit to give the laddie a hearing  though
it is only some havers about seeing  selling
would be liker the word  a wheen [few] auld
papers he brocht with him frae the Hielants.
He never trusted me wi' them, though I've
been the best friend he has had for moiiy a
day. It was not with his wall that the
bowie was left with me when he was taken
to the asylum. They are not muckle worth
whatever, not as if there had been a gude
dug-cure or a famous mash for horses
among them : spun-out marriage lines and
a wull fort' or fifty years back  that's the

head and tail of them, I behoves ended
Sandy, with considerable scorn, betraying ashe
spoke a suspicious familiarity with the
contents of the knapsack which had been
committed to his keeping.

Tory of the Shelties made his voice be
heard at last, with the startling effect of a
Brutus giving forth the sentiments of a man.

The papers are mine,' he said with shrill
assertion. * They were given to me by auld
Morag, her ain grannie, and she felled me
to take care of them, and I have taken
care  there might be a fortune in them,
and the fortune is mine, every penny. Make
an offer, Mackinnon of Drysdale Haugh, '
and be quick about it, for I've been heckled
[cross-examined] and hunted, and shut up
in a prison. I'm thinking' long of the Islands,
and I want to see the last of that big
brute Macnab.'

'Oh, the ungrateful demented blackguard r
cried Sandy, in righteous wrath. ' I can
hardly keep my hands aff him.'

Tarn interposed, speaking severely.

It would like better become a reasonable
being, and been a greater kindness to your
afflicted countryman, to have seen him onboard
one of the Hieland boats, where he
could have begged his passage north. ' My
man,' turning soothingly to Tory, * there is
no person of the name and style you mention
here. Drysdale Haugh is mine, but
I'm not a Mackinnon. The son of the
Mackinnon you seem to be seeking' 
the father has been dead for more than a
score of years  is an off slier lad at the
Barracks; but he has nothing to do with
Drysdale Haugh explained Tarn with decision,
' as I have nothing to do with the
Mackinnons ; however, you may seek him
out and hear what he says.'

It was Mackinnon of Drysdale Haugh
that auld Morag kenned,' persisted Tory
doggedly. ' She gave me the names, and
I'll stick to them.'

You may stick to what you like, but

I'm afraid it cannot be here.' Auld Tarn
began to lose his patience.

Ane of the papers is about a Drysdale,
though,' said Sandy, unblushingly revealing
more unaccounted-for knowledge. ' That
is the reason I lugger the sinner here, and
no to the Barracks ; but for that matter we
need not have gone so far, since Captain
Mackinnon's that throng [intimate] with
our young gentleman he's seldom wa' frae
Semple Barns.'

The deil thank you for as officious a
scoundrel as he is a doited [stupid] ane,'
thought Tam ; but he said aloud, with some
alacrity  ' Let's see the Drysdale paper.
It may have reference to the auld master
here. If so, I have a better right to it than
any Mackinnon of them.'

Open sour wallet, Tory !' commanded
Sandy Macnab.

Mak' an offer, Mackinnon ! ' swelled Tory .
Out ! you thrawn tied [toad] , I doubt

it's ill-gotten gear at ijie best. What call

have you to mak' terms, affronting' me and
tantaleezin' a gentleman ?' and without
further preamble Sandy made a spring upon
the feeble defender of his property, pinned
him to his seat with one hand, and with the
other snatched the old knapsack, which fell
on the floor, bursting open, and scattering
the papers which were its contents.

Tory bit, scratched, and spat like a wildcat,
but remained helpless in his assailant's
powerful grasp.

Holy [hold] , Macnab !' cried Tam, and
started up.

As he did so, the toe of his shoe turned
over one of the bones of contention, and
he saw and read the address, written in a
large imposing hand, still legible, though the
ink had faded, and there was the dirt of
an intervening generation on the card,
Gavin Mackinnon, Esq., King's Arms Inn,
North Uist.'

THE CONTENTS OF THE KNAPSACK.

Come, this must be seen to,' said Tarn
half reluctantly, half roughly, for he felt
that though he might have to act in his
character of magistrate, personally he had
got enough of the Mackinnons. He had no
inclination to mix himself up in what was
the business of the fellow who was Clary's
foolish fancy, whom her father had begun
to regard as his natural enemy. The
probabilities flashed upon Tam as he reflected
for an instant : ' Gavin Mackinnon
was a great stranger [wanderer] after sport.
He may have carried that article with a
change of linen ; he was a particular man
in his dress, forgetting' what else had been

stowed wa' in the bag, and then left it
behind him. It was like the pompous,
careless puppy ; and now it has fallen to
my lot to claim the papers in the name of
their proper owner, if, indeed, one of them
be not main concern.'

Opposite Tam, Sandy Macnab was still
holding back his man, and enjoining him
to ' bide still for a senseless dug,' or he
might be had up for contempt of a magistrate,
and committed as a vagrant and thief.
The asylum was one thing and the county
gaol another, as Tory might find to his
cost.

Tam Drysdale, in search of a further clue,
picked up a loose single sheet of paper which
looked as if it had been wrapped round the
other papers. It had a line or two written
on it in the clear round text which belonged
to the parish school of former days : ' Left
behind by a Lowland gentleman, whose name
appears to have been Gavin Mackinnon, but
whose further address is unknown at the

King's Arms Inn, North Uist. It is probable
that the property, which may be of variety
the owner, will be called for.' Then followed
a date of a quarter of a century back.

Whether the Morag who had been the
grandmother of Tory, and had in course of
time passed on to him the lost luggage, was
a managing kinswoman of the innkeeper retired
from business, or an acquisitive elderly
chambermaid picking up what she could find
stowing it away in case it should come
handy to herself at some future day, and
ending by brooding on the unacknowledged
possession till she hugely magnified its importance
 Tory was never likely to tell, and
there was no other person to explain.

I cannot say that I approve of your
mode of conducting' business, Sandy Macnab,'
said Tam sternly'. ' You may be taken up
for assault if you do not take care. I would
bid you let go your grip this minute, if you
had to do with a reasonable being ; as it is,
it will be on your head if you treat him like

a cowardly brute when you see him off the
premises, which I must ask you to do. I'll
keep the papers. So far as I can judge,
they are of little moment to anybody  which
you've seen already, I doubt not. But
whether that crater is a born natural, or a
raging madman, he has nothing to do with
auld deeds  on the face of them.' As he
spoke, Tam picked up two separate folded
sheets of yellowing parchment.  They
must not be left in his hands. Stay ! he
seems to have been deluded into the belief
that they were worth money, which he would
receive when he delivered them up in the
proper quarter. He had no warrant whatever
for detaining them; but as I understand
he travelled south with them, to his
ain loss of time and trouble, he may be
entitled morally, if not legally, to some sma'
compensation.'

That's just what I've been thinking, Mr.
Drysdale,' chimed in Sandy, glib and ,
as Tory of the Sliclties, exhausted

by the fruitless conflict, leant back panting
and glaring in the clutch of the other son of
the Gael. ' I kenned fine the scartipikin
[scarecrow] had neither airt nor part in the
papers in the kistie that he was so full o'.
But he cam' with them sooth, there can be
nae question of that ; so I brocht him here to
deliver up his booty with his ain hands, and
get what reward or punishment was his due.'

There's a five-pound note and mind,
Macnab, you're answerable for what becomes
o't,' said Tam, handing over the money, at
which Tory, making a desperate effort,
caught with his bony fingers.

Is it gude paper?' he demanded breathlessly
; ' will it buy back Morag's cruise
[croft] ?'

Hoots ! ye manna back-spear [cross-question]
a gentleman, or look a gift-horse
in the mouth ; ye're come off
real weel when you miclit be laid up in
pile for keeping' back papers that's no
your ain,' Sandy assured his compatriot

cheerfully. * Out with your leather pouch,
you ill-bred deil's buckle [devil's shell], and
thank his honour  it's little thanks ye gie a
body  and come your wa's without mair
trouble; I'm sure ye're given a handle mair,
since I kenned you first, than you're a*
worth.'

There's a couple of half-crowns to you,
Sandy Macnab,' said Tam, on second
thoughts. * I believe you've not done so
ill by this poor wTctch. It would be well,
if consistent with your duty to Sir Jeames,
that you should see him on board ane of
the Hieland boats before his pockets are
picked and he's left to die on the streets.'

'Mony thanks  I'm your man, Mr. Drysdale.
I'll be in Glasgy for mair medicine
for the pups, that have ta'en the distemper,
the day after the morn at fairest. I'll put
the body into the hands of Nicol MacNicol,
a steward, who is a friend of mine that gangs
as far as the Lewis. Gude-day, sir!' and
Sandy marched off with his unruly proudie.

Tarn was left alone to inspect the papers
which had come by a curious chance into
his possession. The first, which Sandy had
called 'spun-out marriage lines,' was, as
Tarn had taken for granted, the very marriage
contract, the disappearance of which
had been such a puzzle to the Miss Mac-cannons.
It was the deed drawn up jointly
by David Milne and William Dalgleish, according
to which Gavin Mackinnon and
Margaret Craig had agreed that her property
should be settled upon her. All that Tam
Drysdale knew was that she set the agreement
aside, by granting her husband and his
partner power to sell both land and works,
when Tam bought them for an old song,
compared to what they would fetch now.
The bargain had been made a year or two
before Mrs. Mackinnon died, like her mother,
in giving birth to her only child, the same
supercilious * officier lad ' who had become
a thorn in Tam's flesh.

Tam regarded the deed as so much waste-vol.

II. o

paper, and merely glanced at it to see that
he had been right in his conjecture of its purport.
He had little sentiment to spare for
the different circumstances in which it had
been executed. He had never associated
much feeling with Gavin Mackinnon and
his wife, who had not, indeed, been sentimental
persons. All that Tarn Diysdale
thought, as he folded up the document,
was 

Weel, Gauvin Mackinnon was never
crouse [self-satisfied] when I kenned him ;
he had not the spunk [spirit] in him to be
crouse, though he could law and give himself
airs in his slow, lazy way. But if he ever
were crouse, it must have been the night
he signed that paper, and, without a penny
belonging' to him, prepared to marry the
heiress of Drysdale Haugh, and give
her back her ain with a swagger, while he
set himself to mismanage for her, and play
ducks and drakes with her guides. Pair
woman ! she had the worst of the bargain.

The son  confound him for a fine gentleman
of an officier, who disdains to put
himself dorrit !  seems up to the same trick,
as auld as the hills and as shabby as a worn
sixpence. Before I scorned [lived] on ony
woman I would cast aff my coat and break
states at the side of the road. But he'll
not get in his hand if I can help it  not
though Clary were so far left to herself'  a
lassie with Clary's wit ! But in that case
he'll tak' her as she stands, she'll not get a
farthing of mine ; she can follow the drum
if that be her will, only young Tarn, who
may need the pillar, and little Eppie, who
would never cross her father, will be the
gainers. But it cannot be ; Clary's not a
full, though she's high-headed, to fling
herself' wa' on a great pitiless lump  just
because he has the right to put on the
Queen's regimentals, which, nowadays, neither
he nor his brother officiers have the
spirit to wear, and is made welcome to
strain [stretch] his lang legs beneath sic a

362

table as that at Senile Barns. No, it
caria be.'

It was an annoyance to Tarn that he
should be burdened, even to the small
extent of having to keep this old marriage
contract, till he could hand it over to the
person for whom he had so little esteem,
who had the best right to it. Tam might
be safely depended upon to take prompt
steps to ascertain whether young Mackinnon
was at Semple Barns, moliere he stayed so
often, or when he was expected there, in
order to get rid of the trust.

Tam Drysdale turned with much more
interest to what proved the will of his
namesake, the original owner of the Drysdale
Haugh farm and works. The two
papers had no doubt been brought together
at the time of the drawing out of the
marriage contract, in the office of one or
other of the lawyers, and had eventually
been lost in company by Gavin Mackinnon 's
notorious incompetence.

The loss need not have been hopeless, if
the Miss Mackinnons had but known it.
Copies of the deeds would have been found
in the proper places. But small blame to
Miss Janet for her ignorance, since Tarn
Drysdale  a good business man, for whom
the law had a certain fascination  shared
her lack of information on these points.

Tarn examined the will carefully, but
without much speculation how it had come
there, and whether it was the sole indication
of the dead man's pleasure in the
disposal of his property. He had no reason
to doubt what had been his father's cousin's
meaning, and it would have taken a powerful
reason to shake his broad acquiescence
in all that had happened. If he read the
settlement slowly, every word, it was from
a motive quite apart from any eager desire
or vague impulse to dispute its authority.
Early associations were rising thick and
fast, and filling his mind. He recalled the
old man, homely and a little harsh, but

not unrighteous or altogether intended,
when his mother had sometimes received
permission to take her boy to the farmhouse.
He had not been without Httle relenting
and kindnesses to Tam and his
mother, though he had openly and indignantly
condemned the husband and father
who had wasted his little patrimony and
sunk to the lowest social grade, dragging
down his wife and child in the process.
Neither had old Drysdale ever concealed his
intention of leaving his goods past his Drysdale
cousins to his late wife's niece, Mrs.
Craig, in India. He had talked openly of
the arrangement as one he had entered into
when he took home the lass-bairn and
fancied she would be the solace of his old
age. He had been mistaken, but he had
made the stipulation, and it was not for
him to break his part of the bargain, while
the poor, credulous lass, who must drink
as she had brewed, might want all the help
that he could give her. It was for

young Tarn  auld Tarn was young Tarn in
these days  who was a brisk, sturdy laddie,
to work, to redeem what his father had
lost. It was the discipline which might
save the son from going the same road ;
for anything else  such as lifting the chap
who had begun the world a working lad
with gear he had never earned  would
have been in these austere eyes to send
him straight to destruction.

And Tam had never greatly grudged the
alienation of the property, for which he had
always been prepared, though the moment
he had seen the possibility he had worked
hard to recover it. But it gave him a
thrill now, though he was not a superstitious
man, to handle and study the
document, as nearly as possible on the spot
where it had been devised. He could
conjure up the circumstances  the old man
sitting solitary, but without visible weakness,
nay, stiff, upright, and determined,
in his bare parlour ; the complacent lawyer

from the town waiting his instructions ; a
tolerable bottle of wine  not the sour stuff
the Miss Mackinnons treasured, but good
wine of its kind, ordered for the old man's
infirmities  or two rummers of toddy and
a plate with a cut lemon standing between
the couple.

Tam remembered to have heard a characteristic
anecdote of his namesake's scorn
of insincerity and of covert acts to obtain
by favour what had not been justified by
right, or by work done for the coveted
reward.

The old man had taken it into his
head that his doctor, in addition to his
claim for the fee of which he was certain,
had surreptitious views on the sick man's
estate, and desired to figure as a legatee
in his will. On the last night that the
medical man visited his patient, whose hours
were numbered, the undaunted invalid suddenly
asked for the physician's cane, which
was furnished with a cord and tassel. The

sick man, amidst the wondering, half-scared
looks of the watchers, raised himself in
bed and asked for a penknife and a bit of
narrow black riband which happened to belying
near. With feeble hands he cut away
the cord and tassel, laced the riband
through the hole in the wood, tied it in a
little bow, and then handed the stick back
to its owner, with a formal inclination of
the head, saying : ' There, sir, are both
your morning and your legacy.' Within a
few hours from perpetrating the grim jest,
the jester departed this life.

Tam wondered what his kinsman would
have thought if he could have seen the
result of his will. Surely he must have
approved and been proud of the achievements
of his descendant. Tam straightened
himself, got up and took a turn across his
business-room with something of the peacock
strut which, alas ! sometimes distinguished
him. He thought of the greatly
enlarged and improved works, the immensely

extended trade, the honour in the
commercial world, the field added to field,
the grand house, the friendship of such
men as Sir James and Sir Hugo Willoughby,
the position of Tam's family when it had
been thought that little Eppie might end
by being ' my teddy,' and contrasted all
these changes with the limited and clumsy
materials of the past, the small reputation,
the plain farmhouse, and its almost sordid
domestic economy.

Blood was thicker than water. Though
Tam's cousin had once on a day been fond
as a father of his dead wife's niece, the
girl he had brought up, she had disappointed
him, and he had never got over
his rooted dislike to Jock Craig. Old Drysdale
had not so much as made mention of
any children of the marriage in dictating
the deed. It was but an accident, after
all, the fact that Mrs. Craig had survived
her uncle by a few hours, which had stood
between Tam's father, despised reprobate ashe

had been, and the inheritance of Drysdale
High.

Tarn himself had never before fully
realized how close the run had been, how
narrow the escape of Mrs. Craig's infant
daughter from the forfeiture of her mother's
succession. It would have made a difference.
He would have been saved from
a youth of toil and hardship, for he would
very soon have come into his father's
shoes.

The poor prodigal from whom Tam had
drawn his being, though his physique was
from his mother, had been near his last
gasp when fortune dealt him the final blow,
which none could say had been undeserved.
Not even the strong stimulant of unexpected
good fortune would have prolonged
his life for many months, or given him
time to squander the larger inheritance ashe
had squandered the smaller. Tam would
have come into it almost intact. He might
have been able to educate himself while he

was yet young, to spare himself many a
drudging day and weary night.

But looking back calmly over the gulf
of years, with the mountains of difficulty
well past, the man decided it was better as
it had been. He had profited by the warfare
he had undergone  it had made twice
the man of him that he might have been
otherwise. It was more honourable to have
hewed out the fortune which he honestly
thought so great and enviable, than to have
derived even a part of it from the gift of
another. Tam held his head the higher
for the thought. At the same time he
would not return the will which had so
strangely found its way to him unsought,
till he saw a clear obligation to relinquish
it. Surely it was more his property than
that of any Mackinnon of them, whose
name did not even occur in its pages.
When it came to the question, it was not
probable that anybody, be he a Mackinnon
or a stranger, would wrangle with Tam for

the possession of an old deed which had
taken effect and been overturned by Tarn's
own purchase, more than twenty years
before.

With regard to the marriage contract, it
was clearly young Mackinnon's. But the
next day Tam ascertained that Mr. 
was not at Semple Barns, and that
he was not expected there soon, for the
good reason that he and Dick Semple had
gone in a friend's yacht to Norway. Their
present address was unattainable, and by
the time they returned, the Drysdales would
have gone with the rest of the world to the
coast. The matter was of little consequence.
Any unnecessary intercourse between
Tam and the young man, while
Tam's feelings towards him were what has
been stated, would be, to say the least, the
reverse of agreeable. The matter might
stand over. The paper was safer in Tarn's
desk than it had been for many a day.
Altogether it seemed the natural and proper

course to wait till the two men came in
contact again, in the ordinary intercourse,
at Semple Beams or elsewhere, before telling
the story and committing Guy Mackinnon's
marriage contract to the keeping of his
son.

THE DEATH OF FENTON OF STRATHDIVIE.

It was the height of summer, when the
most of the inhabitants of Glasgow and its
neighbourhood, who had the opportunity,
had taken refuge by the water, which is,
somehow, the natural element of every
true Glaswegian, man or woman, high or
low.

The Drysdales were at Lochgoilhead, the
Semples of Semple Barns at Oban. Dr.
Peter Murray had got a medical substitute
to take his post for a fortnight, and was
spending the minister's holiday to his heart's
content with Thole, scrambling after ferns
and sea-anemones in Arran. Young Eppie
was wearing her Newhaven fishwife's costume,

and looking the loveliest and daintiest
little fishwife that ever trod an Arcadian
shore. She was learning to spout * Lord
Ullin's Daughter without much anxiety as
to whether Loch Boyle could be the same
dark and stormy water ' which Campbell
meant. But there was no Sir Hugo to
gaze on the nymph and hang on the accents
of the Clydesdale tongue. He had not yet
turned up in the course of the Long Vacation.
Guy Horsburgli alleged that his
friend could not help himself  his heart
was in the right place  that is, in Glasgow
and its dependencies ; but his tutor and his
mother had set their hearts on his completing
his college course with some credit,
and to do so he must give a few weeks to
a certain reading-party, which meant work,
in Derbyshire. But Derbyshire, or any
other shire in the United Kingdom, was
little more than a bow shot off, from which,
when he had made the necessary sacrifice,
Sir Hugo was certain to present himself

within the given number of hours. That
might or might not be. There are plenty
of allurements for such golden lads as Sir
Hugo.

A little fickleness may be excused in
them, especially when they are hardly more
than major. Some rumour of threatened
danger might have reached his friends.
They might have taken the alarm, and be
moving heaven and earth successfully to
keep him in their own circle. If it were
so, nobody would object, as Tam Drysdale
had said ; and least of all young Eppie,
who had done all but forget that such a
grand young gentleman as an English
baronet had ever crossed her blithe path,
caught her unawares, caused her to think
shame, and made up for it by being good-natured
in admiring her singing. Eppie
was as happy as usual  as happy as the
day was long. She was still at the most
joyous age  fancy-free and untouched by
care. None missed a recreant lover, whether

VOL. II. 37

by compulsion or his own free will, less
than she did.

For inevitably there were more defaulters
than Sir Hugo. Lochgoilhead, Arran, and
Oban may not look far apart on the map,
and in the summer season steamboats churn
the water of the river continually with so
little pause and stay, that the throb of the
engines, the grey and wliite wreaths of the
smoke and steam, the foam-bells on the
track, are never absent, any more than the
near and far shadows of the hills from
the landscape. To think of getting out of
sight and sound of these harbingers of
universal movement, is to imagine that one
can sit on certain green lawns, and count
a dozen without catching a glimpse of a
white butterfly specking the sunny blue air.
Still Lochgoilhead, Arran, and Oban are
too far apart for the exchange of morning
or evening calls. The * runs ' of the steamboats
do not always answer particular requirements,
but keep crossing each other

and cutting off the dwellers on one point of
the mainland or on one island from the
dwellers on another, in the most perplexing
and exasperating manner. In truth, the
service of steamboats is kept for families
coming once for all and taking up their
summer quarters, with periodical returns to
the city, or for tourists and touring, not
for visitors and visiting. These last social
features are reserved for settled life in town
or country-houses  not nomadic life on the
coast. When, in addition to this reservation,
some men have business engagements,
such as young Tam had, only letting them
out of Glasgow at the last moment, once or
twice a week, with an obligation to report
themselves first to their own people ; or
when officers have regimental duty, such
as was binding on Eneas Mackinnon ; and
dien there are not frank, hospitable invitations
sent beforehand for gay bachelors
to come down in the end of the week and
stay over Sunday in Arran or at Lochgoil-

372

head, the most ardent lover may be safely'
defied to dance attendance on the object of
his affections.

And young Tam was not ardent in
pursuing a perverse young woman who was
constantly fleeing from him and mocking
him. He had his wayward moods like hers ;
often he set his teeth and said he would
have nothing more to do with her, that
he despised himself for going after her ; not
that he meant anything by it  oh no ! It
was merely regard for Dr. Peter and a determination
not to be driven away by her
snubs and laughter.

Eneas Mackinnon was not ardent in a
hopeless chase which he felt was madness.
He made up his mind half-a-dozen times a
day to withdraw even from the passive
attentions and silent love-making which
were all he could presume to offer. But
on every occasion that Claribel sailed across
his path, he was drawn by the fascination
of her strength and sufficiency for what

she cared for, as much as by her beauty, to
break his resolution and let himself be
dashed afresh against the rocks of fortune.

Altogether Clary and Thole, who had
never confided in each other, never consulted
together, who found themselves two
young women abandoned largely to their
own company, or the society of their nearest
relations, needed all Clary's sancj froicl and
Thole's ojaietv of heart and devotion to her
father, to bear their desertion with anything
like the unaffected philosophy and cheerfulness
which young Eppie displayed in similar
circumstances.

The young ladies paid for their superior
rank and refinement, and had less of good
fellowship during their holiday than their
sisters in the grade beneath them. These
lower middle-class girls, not coy or capricious,
managed to secure their brief spell of
liberty from their situations as nursery
governesses, in shops, and milliners' establishments,
at the same time that the young

clerks and shorten, in their train, obtained
their breathing-space. All rushed down,
with the other members of their families, to
Hunter's Quay, or Sandbank, or Kim, and
were never apart. These primitive young
people spent the long summer day till far
on in the dusk of the summer night, mostly
on the water, in such jovial play  such
chattering, singing, laughing, flirting, quarrelling,
and agreeing again, as made the
very hills of Coal ring, and formed enough
recreation to last through all the working-hours,
till the depths of winter, and the
daft days  stretching from Hogmanay to
Handsel Monday  came again.

There were multitudes, however, who
never quitted the dingy precincts of the city.
Among these were the Miss Mackinnons.
Dr. Peter and Atholc had done their best,
in vain, to persuade the sisters to go out and
keep house at Barley' Puggs, in the absence
of the owners, as a favour to thon. But
no invitation to Drysdale Hall had come to

the old ladies this year. The omission had
drawn forth sundry expressions of surprise
from Dr. Peter ; and when Thole had hinted
at an explanation, he had stared, reddened,
and said plainly it was a shahhy piece of
retaliation, such as he would not easily have
believed Tarn Drysdale guilty of.

Then Thole pointed out that she was
aware the Drjsdale Hall baskets of fruit,
vegetables, and dairy produce continued to
come, as they had done for a year, to St.
Mungo's Square ; but Miss Janet began to
look dubiously at them, and to ask sharply
if there was no card or note among the
contents. On this second piece of information.
Dr. Peter shook his head, and remarked
emphatically that would not do.

The Miss Mackinnons' excuse for not
going out of Glasgow was that Miss 
was so frail, she was better at home.
It had become a ' thought ' to take her even
the short distance to Barley Riggs in a close
carriage.

But in place of remaining quiet and composed,
like fixtures, in their own house,
there was an air of restlessness and expectation
about the sisters, from the youngest
to the eldest. It could hardly be accounted
for by the fact which Miss Bethia had disclosed
to Thole Murray. The elder lady
had said, with a wistful, frightened look in
her eyes, that ill news travelled fast, and
they were not easy in their minds about a
friend who had been long ailing and was
likely to leave them this summer.

Sure enough, the Miss Mackinnons had
learnt from some quarter that Fenton of
Strathdivie, after many a false alarm, was on
his death-bed at last.

The expectant heirs did not speak much
to each other of what they had been looking
forward to all these years, of what was
never out of their thoughts. The Miss
Mackinnons were simple women when it
comes to that. The subject was too awful
too ghastly  the feverish counting of the

failing sands of a human creature's existence
in this world, the breathless waiting
till his breath went out, by women  two
of them considerably older than the sufferer
that they might join together in parting
their portion of the dead man's possessions,
was not an experience to be lightly alluded
to.

Miss Janet would say abruptly there was
a het gaff [warm air] off the plain-states.'
Such warm weather must be very trying 
even in the country, where there were grass
and cornfields  to sick folk, who could not
be expected to stand its exhausting effects.

Miss Bethia would reply below her breath
to the vague allusion  ' I wonder how he is ;
sir spent, pair man, I doubt not.'

And Miss Mackinnon, narrowly watching
her sister's eyes, would hastily utter
the imperious appeal, * Have you heard
word r

For weeks Miss Janet or Miss Bethia had
anticipated the coming of the postman on

this morning rounds. One or other of the
sisters had stolen out when the rinfjinor of
the door-bells grew nearer, and been found
on the door-step as the man of letters approached,
waved a polite but indifferent
negative, and passed on in his circuit of the
Square, chuckling to himself when his back
was turned, and saying, * The auld lasses*
day for love-letters is surely gone by

It was in the forenoon, however, that Miss
Bethia, returning from marketing, and not
noticing any change on the outside of the
house, stumbled as she entered out of the
broad sunshine with which the opened front
door had flooded the hall, into the diningroom,
where all the blinds were dra\ii down.
She stopped on the threshold with a mingled
shiver and thrill, as she saw through the
gloom Miss Janet, sitting erect and pale,
opposite Miss Mackinnon, who was crouching
a little, as if from cold, on a summer
day, while on the table between them lay
two black edged letters unopened.

We are waiting for you, Betheye/ said
Miss Janet solemnly.

Oh, gie me a minute, Janet,' implored
Miss Bethia, dropping into a chair, and
speaking as if her own execution were approaching.
' When did it happen ? What
is the upshot ? I hope none of us will
sent. Had we not better have burnt
feather and smelling-salts in readiness ?'

 And the doctor, and the minister  I was
gain to say the lawyer, but we have not had
a man of business for the last twas years,'
said Miss Janet, provoked to sarcasm.
You were aye a frighted hen, Betheye ;
but we're not of the fenton' kind. As to
what has happened, and the upshot, I'm
gain to see. I take it for granted that I
like faith your permissions.'

And with that Miss Janet stretched forward
a wrinkled hand, that only shook
slightly, and appropriated the letters.

The first was a mere intimation of the
death.

Strathdivie, 15th July.
Mr. Archibald Fenton died here this
morning at half-past three o'clock

Miss Janet read the announcement without
faltering, then handed the card for Miss
Mackinnon's satisfaction.

Eh ! sirs !' exclaimed Miss Bethia, byway
of decent lamentation.  Eh ! sirs!'
she repeated after a moment's pause, not
without a little guilty consciousness of
hypocrisy. ' The news wall take nobody by
surprise. He suffered a deal of sickness,
poor felly, but now he's at his rest.' It was
a statement, not a prayer, yet the assertion,
in a softened tone, was somewhat
equivalent to the Woman Catholics' petition,
lequiescat in pace,'

Miss Janet was already opening the
second letter, and drawing herself up when
she saw it was from a lawyer's office ; but,
as a matter of course, the only fresh intelligence
it conveyed, in addition to communicating
the fact of Fenton of Strathdivie's

death, in slightly different words, amounted
to no more than that the funeral was to be
from Strathdivie on the following Thursday,
and that the reading of the will would take
place on the return of the mourners from
the churchyard.

That means that we are invited to attend
as interested parties,' said Miss Janet, in a
tone of triumph, forgetting the melancholy
occasion of the invitation.

What will we do T asked Miss Bethia
helplessly, fanning herself with a corner of
her pocket-handkerchief, and feeling instinctively
as she did so the impropriety of its
not being broad-hemmed.

What will we do ? We'll gang, of
course,' said Miss Janet, both asking a
question and answering it with the utmost
decision. ' We're no daft to hang back and
decline to claim our legacy, that was left tous
in the first place by our great-grandfather
when his doctor Jean took her tocher to
Fenton of Strathdivie.'

But how can we gang ?' retorted Miss
Bethia, in her matter-of-factness, still full of
doubts and difficulties.

On our feet and in the trains to be sure,'
said Miss Janet impatiently.

But the morning.'

You cannot have forgotten, Betheye/
Miss Janet reminded her sister severely

that every stitch we've bocht for the last
four years has been black, in expectation of
this ca' ? As for crape and weepers, we'll
surely get credit for them till the will's
administered.'

Oh, Janet, you're making' cock-sure,'
said Miss Bethia in a timorous voice, oddly
at variance with the masculine word she
had used.

And what for no ? ' demanded Miss
Janet, with all her old audacious spirit.

Are we not come of the blue of our ain
great-grandfather ? Did not his doctor
Jean marry Fenton of Strathdivie ? and
failing' the Fentonss, was not a share of

Stratlidivie cleared from debt by her portion
to come back to the Mackinnons ? It's as
plain as a pikestaff.'

And what are we to do with Meye ?'
Miss Bethia started another obstacle.

 You may ask herself suggested Miss
Janet, still with unshaken confidence. ' I
think I ken her answer beforehand.'

Meye,' Miss Janet wrote, ' I say we
should start the morn for Stratlidivie  what
do you think ?'

111 go replied Miss Mackinnon, without
a second's hesitation.

Hear to her, Betheye,' said Miss Janet,
with a mixture of pride and reproach, * and
her weel up among her seventies, and as
deaf as a door-nail, and has not had a
breath of wind blow on her this year. Are
you not ashamed of yourself T

I would do anything,' said Miss Bethia
meekly ; * but should we not wait for the
Lieutenant ? It is his business as well as
ours. He might gang in our stead ; or if

that would not serve, lie miclit be our convoy
and protection

We'll wait name,' said Miss Janet, in her
high-handed way. ' How are we to write
and hear word back again in time from Oban ?
He was not to be at the Barracks for a week.
If we do not gang when we're bidden, how
do we ken that some other claimant may not
slip into our shoon? Legacies do not go
a-begging. There will be plenty of cries
and glees [ravens and kites] to pike for
Fenton of Strathdivie's leavings

 That's the very reason we should be
careful,' said Miss Bethia eagerly,  not to
rin into terrible expense without assurance.'

What do you ca' assurance, Betheye
Mackinnon ? You may do what you like,
but for myself' I ken I do not come into an
inheritance illa day. I would go to Strath-divine
though I were to walk befit [barefooted]
every step of the gate, though I
were to beg my way from farm-toon to
farm-toon. You'll say next that we have

not waited long, and that we have no need
o' the silver.' She ended almost fiercely in
her exasperation. Then she began again :
I believe you're feared like a bairn  you're
single [coward] enough of travelling' to a
house where a coffin and a corp' are lying' 
a woman of your years ! As if they could
harm you ; as if our presence were not the
last mark of respect to him that's wa';
as if, gin he were to hant us, he could as
lief come here as gang yonder  here, where
we're bund to admit his wa'ga'in' [departure]
has been sir wearied for.'

Oh ! Janet, haud your tongue, for
mercy's sake, and let us do what you judge
best ! I never wanted to gang conter to
you,' cried Miss Bethia, collapsing utterly
before these scornful reproaches and gruesome
threats.

Accordingly the Miss Mackinnons prepared
for an extraordinary exodus on the
following day. First, they set their house
in order, toiling for the next six hours,

VOL. II. 38

putting aside and locking up everything that
could be locked up, and packing a tnmk
in common. They found an old washerwoman,
and placed her in charge of the
bare walls and the tables and chairs, loading
her with instructions for the careful
preservation of other people's property.
Not content with this, the old ladies
charged the policeman on the beat, the
postman, and a mechanic they knew who
crossed St. Mungo's Square as he went to
and from his day's work, to have an eye on
Jenny in her employers' interests.

Then, giddy with excitement; and all but
spent with fatigue, the indefatigable old
women turned again to the packing of the
common trunk. Miss Betliia especially
brought to it all manner of incongruous
articles of apparel that would have filled
half a dozen trunks. She excused herself
for this bulky plaid, or that old gown or
bonnet, which had not been seen for years,
on the plea that the travellers could not tell

how long they would stay. Strathdivie was
in a moorland district, and they might feel
the change of climate in the country; and
while it was necessary to prepare for seeing
company, particularly at a time like this,
ladies might also wear up such old dresses
as their owners could not appear in so longs
they remained in town.

It was well that exhaustion brought some
amount of sleep, though the sleepers' dreams
could not but have been uncanny.

By dawn of day the whole party were again
astir, preparing to start for the railway station
an hour before the train was due. Miss
Janet, who had all the practical ability that
was now to be found among the sisters, had
borrowed a time-table and copied out the
stages of the journey.

A certain sense of awe, very different from
any former experience on leaving home, was
lent to the departure, from the indefinite
duration of the stay at Strathdivie  together
with what were to the women the

382

tremendous issues involved in the visit.
The starting took place early in the morning,
before even Miss Janet's and Miss
Bethia's time of rising. It was as if they
were fleeing, unknown to the sleepers around
them, from the long reign of poverty and
privation by which they had been well-nigh
overborne, as if the news were too
good to be true, and something terrible
must befall the maiden ladies on their
strange journey to the house of the dead.
He had never invited them to be his guests
during his lifetime  he had, indeed, as was
shrewdly suspected, nourished a strong, not
unnatural, prejudice against those Mac-cannons
he had known. It was. Miss
Bethia said to herself with a sob in her
throat, as if they might never come back to
the house in which they had been born,
where they had dwelt from youth to age,
which they had never failed to honour. It
was dear to them from many causes  from
their intimate familiarity with every flower

on the wall-papers, every crack in the ceilings
 from such joys as had come to them
from the sufferings they had bravely faced
under its roof. It was their own house and
their father's house, which they were to bequeath
to Eneas.

Miss Janet's daring expenditure had not
reached the pitch of calling a cab. The
grey morning was only mildly threatening
rain, as it so often does in the humid west,
and had not settled down into steady wet.
St. Mungo's Square was not above ten
minutes' walk from the particular railway
station where there were trains which led,
by several changes and a corresponding
number of halts, to within a quarter of a
mile of Strathdivie.

The ladies went on foot. Miss Janet
giving her arm to Miss Mackinnon, and a
porter  by whom Miss Bethia was appointed
to walk that she might keep her
eye upon him without a moment's intermission
 shouldering the trunk.

Emile Souvestre in one of this tales has
an account of two sisters who had led a
peculiarly simple and retired life, having
been, from the force of circumstances, kept
not only in drudgery, but in tutelage, till
they were far advanced in middle age.
Tien they were suddenly set free, and began
doubtfully to look about them, and take
the holidays which the women had missed
in their youth. The graceful and not un-subtle
French writer  whom it is the fashion
to set aside, because of his modesty and
purity, for the hurried perusal of heedless
schoolofirls  describes with delicate touches
and fine sympathy the tender pathos of the
situation  the clinging helplessness of the
pair who should long ago have been the
helpers of others  the stammering timidity"
of the grey-headed women who ought by
rights to have faced the world half acentmy
before.

There was some parallel between this case
and that of the Miss Mackinnons when they

set out for Strathclivie in order to come into
their kingdom. True, there was no trace
of timidity where Miss Janet was concerned,,
and the explanation was rather that powers
which had once existed had fallen into disuse,
and former knowledge had become forgotten,
than that the Scotch ladies had never
gone abroad among their contemporaries, or
mingled with the world on their own account.
On the other hand, the nature of
this errand, so different from the mere
pursuit of pleasure late in the day by the
French sisters, was, in itself, tragical and
overpowering.

The three ladies had a look of blinking-owls,
as the Miss Mackinnons stood on the
platform, keeping guard over their trunk,
waiting for their train, while they interfered
with the traffic, got in the way of the porters
and other passengers, and where more than
once heartily anathematized. Even Miss
Janet made mistakes, dropped tickets, miscounted
her money, and entered into hopeless

altercations, trotting back-sward and
forward as fast as her stiffened limbs would
let her, till she was thoroughly put out and
agitated.

When the group were seated in a third-class
carriage  for they were not yet in
possession of the reversion of Jean 's
tocher  various rough jests and not
too civil remarks were made by the bystanders
on * the party out of the ark that
had ta'en the road, forgetting that they had
left Noeliey behind them.' Happily the
jeering personalities fell as flat on Miss
Janet's and Miss Bethia's hearing ears, as
on the sealed organs of Miss Mackinnon,
seated between the two, for the better execution
of any pantomime that might convey
vo her what was passing beyond her range
of vision. The younger sisters never dreamt
that the talk applied to themselves.

Alia are they speaking about, Janet ?'
asked Miss Bethia calmly.

Dear kens,' answered Miss Janet, with

the same coolness. ' But I cinna heed ; I've
a great deal to think about, Betheye.'

Nae doubt, Janet,* and the subject
dropped.

The complete imperturbability of the
objects of the ridicule not only blunted the
words, it gradually shut the mouths of the
thoughtless mockers.

STRATHDIVIE.

It was afternoon when the Miss Mackintosh
were set down, sorely wearied, at the
roadside station which was the nearest to
Strathdivie. Happily, the day still kept
 up,' in country'' phrase ; hut it was grey and
still, as was the scantily-populated moorland
country which the travellers had reached.
They had left the hack country round Glasgow
behind them ; but they had come to a
region which needed all the summer sunshine
to render it cheerful  a peaty, boggy,
clayey district  where land had been brought
in from the waste with much labour that
seemed wasted, for when all was done the
grass looked sour and the corn dropsical.

v)

Yet the prevailing colours of the landscape
would have delighted an art student, since
they hovered between the olive-brown of
moss, the sombre green of rushes, and the
blue-green of late oats in a sparse and unthrifty
condition. Brickfields with their
clay hillocks and smoking kilns, rows on
rows of half-dried bricks, and piles of broken
and crumbling down bricks, like ungainly
masses of sordid ruins, were the most
flourishing form of industry. Strathdivie
was in sight, a discoloured, tall and narrow
last-century house, reminding the gazer of
a gaunt face foul with weeping, half hidden
in a neglected fir-wood. Fenton of Strath-divine
had not possessed spirit or ability, for
long years back, to keep his surroundings
trim and fair to see.

This was the paradise the Miss Mackintosh
had sighed for. But the sight of it
did not daunt them  at least not Miss
Janet  more than a second.

' It is an auld-fashioned part, without

ony nonsense said that indomitable woman ;
and auld-fashioned farming' aye paid. I
dare say these brickfiekls have been Archie
Fenton's  they say there's no such flourishing'
trade now as the building' trade, and that
there is a grand profit got out 0' drain-tiles.
I would wonder though he has doubled
his capital, and that there is plenty of
stouchrie [stowed away goods] in the auld
looses

He's had to leave it a',' said Miss Bethia,
mentioning the undeniable truth in a low,
grave tone, that sought instinctively to subdue
the loud excited key, verging on exultation,
in which Miss Janet spoke.

Would you have had him tak' it wi'
him ? I call that a very heathen notion,'
Miss Janet retorted successfully.

The most serious difficulty which presented
itself was that there had been a miscalculation
of the strength of Miss Mackintosh
was trembling in every limb. Certainly
she could not walk even the short distance

to Strathclivie, if her journey to claim her
legacy were not to prove her death. After
an anxious consultation with the stationmaster,
it was found that a cart with a straw-stuffed
sack could be had from the small
wayside inn opposite the station. In this
primitive conveyance, sitting all three elevated
on their uncomfortable perch, tired
and faint, for they had long ago eaten the
few biscuits they had brought to break their
fast, the descendants of the Virginian Mac-cannons
drove up to the goal of their hopes.
The rough paddock, the neglected flower-border,
the walled-in garden where the
mossy wall was conspicuously broken and
out of repair, the pigeon-house, which was
tottering to its fall, so that no prudent pigeon
would abide within its crazy shelter ; the
dead trees left within sight of the windows ;
the old, empty dog-kennel, adorned by a
rusty chain, kicked over, and lying rotting
in a damp corner, were unfashionable enough
in their untidiness to please Miss Janet, and

appeal to her enthusiasm ; but whether the
tokens were those of skittish plenty, or of
narrowing means growing squalid in despair,
remained to be proved.

Mr.Fentonhadbeen without near relations,
or, indeed, kindred in any degree, dwelling
under his roof. He had been taken care of
in his latter days by a couple of old servants
a man and his wife, who, in their very
fidelity, looked with jealous suspicion on all
invaders of the dead man's domains, where
his retainers had long ruled paramount.

The woman, who was the housekeeper, ina
black cap and j)bid shawl, opened the
door, that creaked inhospitable on its hinges,
as if it had grown rusty from the rarity
of its opening, in answer to the challenge of
the Miss Mackinnons' young carter rudely
rapping with his whip on one of the panels.
He horrified his freight, who where not intime
to stop him with the stern remonstrance,
'Man, arc you forgetting there's
death in the house ?'  a reminder that he

was disturbing the quiet of iliad within which
was greater than the presence of kings,
before which all must bow.

The housekeeper, with blinking eyes and
a tightly closed mouth, offered a passive resistance
to the strangers, though Miss Janet
immediately recovered her confidence, and
made a bold approach to the citadel. She
announced herself and her sisters as the late
Mr. Fenton's Glasgow cousins, who were
come to Strathdivie as a matter of course,
to be in the house when the master was
carried out of it, and to  take charge of
things ' after he was gone, in consideration
of what was due both to him and to themselves.


Mrs. Todd, the housekeeper, stood there
like stone, filling up the gap made by the
half open door, not yielding an inch to Miss
Janet's intrepid advance, simply asking with
sharp significance where was the ladies'
authority for requiring her to admit them to
her master's house ? She did not even say

her late master, thus acknowledging that
his rule, which he had delegated to her and
her husband, was an affair of the past, and
that others might now be entitled to lay
down the law where he had once given his
orders. He must be fairly ' in the fools *
(earth) before such a reversal of matters
took place, and she would know the reason
why before she consented to it.

It seemed doubtful whether the Miss
Mackinnons could make good their entrance,
even after unseemly contention : whether
they would not find the door shut in their
astounded faces, and the old travellers
turned back on the inhospitable wilds 
that is, thrown with their small purse on the
deficient accommodation of the station inn
as Miss Janet would have said, * Fell-like
quarters for maiden eddies !'

Fortunately this catastrophe was avoided.
There was already shut up in the most convenient
room, with an open desk and a few
papers before him, an elderly experienced

country lawyer. He was well known to
Mrs. Todd, and had established his right to
be there. He had been Mr. Fenton's man
of business, and was appointed to conduct
the funeral. He was the same lawyer who
had written to the Miss Mackinnons with
the news of the death. Mrs. Todd obeyed
him all the more implicitly since, clever
woman though she was for her station and
opportunities, she had a vague idea that the
joint legacy which she counted on for herself
and her husband depended on ' the writer's'
goodwill.

Thus, when Mr. Mair, attracted to the
window by the rumble of wheels, bustled
out, introduced himself to the Miss Mac-cannons,
handed them from their cart, and
directed, with no lack of the necessary
authority, that they should be taken in and
made comfortable, Mrs. Todd submitted
with a decent show of civility. But all the
more because of the compulsion to change
her bearing, the enmity pretty sure to have

VOL. 11. 39

arisen between her and the new-comers
was established.

It was a restrained enmity as yet, however,
even where Miss Janet was concerned.
She was a little subdued now that she had
come into the near neighbourhood of death,
and she and her sisters where too tired and
disturbed generally not to avail themselves
thankfully of the refreshment and rest afforded
them  however grudgingly. The plausible
writer-body was willing to receive them, and
that was a good sign. "Who would mind a
sour servant ? x\uld bachelors like poor Archie
Fenton aye spoilt servants, w-ho went
on trading upon former privileges.

It would have been well if the Miss Mac-cannons
had been troubled with no further
article 'senses than belonged either to Mrs.
Todd's churlishness or her forced politeness.
The sisters were not imaginative women.
Their minds did not wander off to the days of
the dead man's south and his high hope, to
the hour of his birth in that very house, where

this entrance into the world had doubtless
been hailed with pride and joy, equal to the
exultation with which they, his remote kinswomen,
had hailed the arrival among them
'of their grand-nephew, Eneas. They did
not ask what had become of all the shattered
dreams which had come into existence since
then, and whether this lonely end were the
fitting conclusion to the blithe beginning
of more than threescore years before. The
Miss Mackinnons would have said that they
were Christian women, and it was the Lord's
will ; and, if anything more was to be added,
they trusted Archie Fenton had gone to ' a
better place.'

Yet the sisters could not get rid of the
wonder of what he who was lying motionless
within four oaken boards in the best
bedroom would have thought of their being
here in what had been his house. Mrs. Todd
had not failed to point out a closed door,
with grim attention, as the ladies passed
with trembling feet and bated breath. ' That

392

is where the master is lying,' Mrs. Todd
had said. He was no longer master ; still,
what would he have thought  nay, what
did he think now, if thought remained to
him ? But surely he was in a position to
acknowledge their right widen he had joined
the great company in which his and their
forbears mingled  among them that very
Jean Mackinnon who had brought her tocher
to Strathdivie, whose half-washed-out name
Miss Janet detected with an irrepressible
thrill of delight on the towel which she got
to dry her hands. Another member of that
company was Jean's father, the haughty
Virginian merchant that had made * a' Glasgow
trimly at the wag of his finger.' Well,
he might be in regions where men had ceased
to tremble before a fellow-creature. Still,
not even in another world could it be believed
that he was wholly unmoved by the
fate of the descendants for whom he had
provided so carefully, looking forward, as it
had happened, ' well on for a hundred years.'

 Yes Miss Janet assented fervent
glancing round on the coarse, clumsy and
shabby, rather than quaintly grotesque,
antiquely-solid or richly-wrought furniture
on the faded out-of-date drugget protecting
the hideous red and green carpets  the
blackened portraits of gaunt or plethoric,
hard or heaves-featured men and women on
the wall  on the absence of all that was
fresh, l)riglit, open-minded, and cheerful.
Strathdivie was all her fancy had painted it,
and it was like coming to another home to
be there. She wrote her sensations to Miss
Mackintosh who responded to them, though
with less effusion.

Nevertheless, it was a somewhat ghastly
home-coming. The absence of almost all
personal acquaintance with the deceased,
and of anything like grief for his loss, together
with what had been the inevitable
reckoning on his death beforehand, lent a
peculiar character to the situation, in which,
when the conditions lead to do with unfeminine

nature less unconquerable than
Miss Janet's, intolerable restlessness and
nameless terror were apt to usurp the foreground.
Miss Betliia, even Miss Making
though her feelings were more shut up
within herself, might well have been forgiven
for starting nervously every time the
door opened. In truth, Miss Bethia woke
up half a dozen times during the night, in
spite of the negus vdiich Mr. Mair had considerately
brewed and sent up for the ladies 
her hair standing on end, in a bath of perspiration,
fighting with a nightmare, that
Fenton of Strathdivie had come out of his
coffin in the chamber below, mounted the
stairs and entered her room to ask, as his
servant had done for him, but with an awful
face and gesture, what the Miss ]Mackinn(>ns
were seeking there.

To the relief of Miss Bethia, if not of
Miss Janet and Miss Mackinnon, who saw
no occasion for the appearance of rival
claimants on the scene, a few gentlemen,

distant relations of the Fentonss of Strath
straggled in to occupy the vacant bedrooms
and represent various branches of the
family at the funeral and the reading of the
will. But the nearest of kin and in affection,
as had always been understood, were
unavoidably absent. These were first
cousins on the mother's side, who had been
brought up with the late laird, and had
been his intimate associates all his life, till
they had emigrated to New Zealand several
years back. Thus, the persons who had
most reason to mourn the last of this line
of Fentonss would not so much as hear of
his death for many a week, far less have it
in their power to attend his funeral. It was
a still greater comfort to Miss Bethia, and
she believed in her heart to her sisters,
though she did not dare to express her conviction,
to wear their long-prepared mourning,
and peep behind the closed window-blinds
at the solemn procession which conducted
Fenton of Strathdivie by a bleak

moorland road to his long home. But the
poor woman could hardly appreciate the
advantage of having one burden lifted from
her mind, because of the fever of expectation
into which she and the remaining Miss
Mackinnons were thrown with regard to
the removal of another and a lifelong
weight by the reading of the will, which was
to take place on the return of the so-called
mourners.

There was no question of what Jean 's
marriage settlement had ordained,
but some uncomprehended, undefined power
was supposed to remain in the hands of the
Fenton who was to return the loan which
his house had enjoyed for generations. Besides,
the law had many a quirk and quibble,
and was proverbially' unchanc3\ Though
Miss Janet would not allow it to be breathed
for an instant. Miss Bethia had a quaking
fear in her sinking heart that there was still
the risk of a miserable slip between the cup
and the lip, and that she and her sisters

might not only have made fools of themselves,
they might be irretrievably ruined  
it was so easy to ruin the last of the Virginian
Mackinnons  in the little hold they
had recovered of the world by favour of
Tam Drysdale and Dr. Peter Murray. The
sisters might be roused out of house and
hold, and the family mansion in St. Mungo's
Square lost to Eneas through the fruitless
journey to Strathdivie, because Miss Janet
had been so strong-willed and high-handed.
In spite of not admitting a doubt of the
result, Miss Janet's sense of honour could
hardly restrain her, in the dreary, torturing
interval of waiting, from taking the law into
her ovvn hands, setting about an instant
search for the will and mastering its contents,
without the help of Mr. Mair or any other
official. Why not, when that clause in Jean
Mackinnon's marriage contract had still to
be fulfilled ? But, even if the temptation
had proved too strong to be resisted, in the
absence of all the other connections of the

family, who, being men, had gone in the
van of the friends and neighbor's to the
churchyard, the depredation woukl have been
circumvented b} Mrs. Todd, who kept a
vigilant watch over the browbeating, interfering
' auk maid,' dogging her footsteps,
and never losing sight of her. The former
custodian of Strathdivie intercepted and
baffled poor Miss Janet at every point, when
she sought to indemnify herself for the
horrible delay by roaming through the
house and making a mental inventory of all
it contained, including audacious, not surreptitious,
efforts to open closed cupboards and
locked drawers.

That muckle, loud-tongued woman  I
hate the very sight of her, and I ken the
pair maister would have hated it too  is no
honest.' Mrs. Todd was guilty of a gross
libel on the lady to one of the undertaker's
men engaged to wait at the dinner which
was to follow the funeral.

Miss Janet was perfectly honest, but it

would have been difficult to say to what
Jean Mackinnon's manage settlement did
not extend in the eyes of her descendants,
unless it were the servants' trunks in their
room, or the strangers' wraps on the hall-table.


THE READING OF THE WILL JEAN MAC-cannon's
TOCHER.

At last the black-coated company came
back from their melancholy errand, like
soldiers, who on similar occasions exchange
the ' Dead March in Saul ' for ' The East
Beef of Old England, 'interchanging ordinary
talk and gossip all the more briskly for its
temporary suspension, even laughing a little
at passing jests, in undertones. The party
filed into the study  by courtesy  where
they found the three big-boned, hoary-headed
Miss Mackinnons in their places before the
others, seated in three chairs ranged in a
row, as on the sack in the cart which had
brought the sisters to the fateful door of

o

Stratlidivie. But they were not the only
women present  considerably to Miss
Janet's disgust, Mrs. Todd came in with lier
husband, and seated herself near the door
unforbidden by the lawyer, who was the
master of the ceremonies, as he took the
chair at the head of the table and produced
from the desk at his elbow a paper with
black seals, proceeding to read the document
with due gravity and emphasis.

The will took most of the people thereby
surprise  not because it showed Archie
Fenton to have been growing more and more
an impoverished man. Ail present, with
the exception of the Miss Mackinnons, had
used their faculties of observation and become
acquainted with that fact. The astonishment
was roused by the information
that he had not clutched what remained to
him of this world's goods to his last
moment ; on the contrary, he had used such
power as the law gave him to strip himself
beforehand of the bulk of his property by

executing a deed of gift in favour of his
cousins in New Zealand  thus putting them
at once in possession of what he had
destined for them, and saving them the payment
of legacy-duty. When Archie Fenton
had set his house in order betimes, relieving
a sensitive, nervous mind, and doing his
best to make a dying bed easier, he had
also bought an annuity which provided for
his remaining wants, and spared him the
trouble of disposing of the capital laid
down in the purchase. There were only
two reservations to the course, which had,
perhaps, as much selfishness as justice or
generosity in it. The first had to do with
a moderate bequest to his servants. The
second referred to the claim which the descendants
of the Virginian Mackinnons had
on a portion of his estate.

With some elaboration, the late Fenton
of Strathdivie detailed by the lips of the
lawyer the amount of the claim, the manner
in which the money had been originally

laid out, the casualties which had befallen
it from time to time, the legal opinion which
he had troubled himself to get to certify his
exemption from the necessity of refunding
these losses  the most of them occurring
before his day  the whole suggesting forcibly
the tyrannical and vexatious character which
the provision for the Mackinnons had ultimately
assumed. In the end Fenton, with
a, vindictive length of memory which the
nearness of death had not cut short, indemnified
himself as far as possible for the
annoyance he had suffered, by exercising the
right of choice which had been left to him,
m apportioning, as he saw fit, the two
hundred and seventy pounds to which Jean
Mackinnon's tocher had dwindled away.
To May and Janet Mackinnon, the elder
daughters of the late Gavin Mackinnon, of
St. Mungo's Square, Glasgow, who, on
account of their years, were not likely to
derive much benefit from the legacy  a
clause framed to deal a double blow to the

unfortunate legatees  twenty pounds each.
To Elizabeth or Bethia Mackinnon, third
daughter of the said Gavin Mackinnon,
whom the testator had never seen, whose
forward greed had not therefore offended
him, whom he judged of an age better
suited to profit by any reversion of property
two hundred and thirty pounds.

Miss Janet listened wdtheyes that glittered
like Miss Mackinnon's. Miss Bethia's mouth
gaped helplessly.

The next thing which happened was that,
without a moment's hesitation, Miss Janet
stated plainly to the assembled company :

It's a shameful' cheat. Jean Making
marriage portion maun have been
liker ten than twa thousand, let alone
hunters ; somebody is answerable for the
defalcation.'

Mem, compose yourself, I beg,' said the
lawyer, at whom she glared, speaking with
the maddening coolness and politeness of a
practised hand in such circumstances.

The audience, which had gathered there
without much hope of pecuniary gain, and
on that very account found themselves in an
easy, disengaged frame of mind, were ready,
in the absence of any other source of excitement,
to welcome the diversion of listening
to an angry woman mulcted of what she
believed her due, and, according to a woman's
notions, insulted to boot. And not many
insulted and aggrieved expectants, even of
the female sex, spoke their minds with the
refreshing plainness which Miss Janet 
had already displayed.

We are willing to make allowance for
ruffled feelings '  Mr. Mair again attempted
to throw oil on the troubled waters in the
storm which had arisen  ' but I would warn
you, mem, against making vague accusations.
It is hard to say to whom your words refer.
If it is to the late Mr. Fenton  who has
vouchsafed a candid explanation of misadventures
over which he had no control,
and who, as you have heard, took counsel

VOL. II. 40

o

more than once to satisfy himself that he
could not be held responsible for them 
although there is a good rule '* demortuis nil
nisi honuin," I do not pretend that your
speech is actionable. But if you have any
other person in your mind, I can only repeat
to you my advice to be more careful of vliat
you say.'

What do I care for your advice ony mair
than for your writer's Latin ?' cried Miss
Janet defiantly. * You insult the memory
of auld Eneas Mackinnon, who, when he
was in the body, would have garret [made]
every notary-public among you stand about,
bv letting' it be said for an instant that his
doctor's tocher was a paltry twa or three
hunter !'

Mem, it was two thousand in the beginning
 nobody disputes it. But it was
badly invested in the sourest land in all the
three Wards ; the more's the pity for your
sake.*

*Wha are you pertain' ? Eddies who

are Mackinnons cinna crave pity from men
of business. Keep yours till it is asked for.
What I insist on is that Jean Mackinnon's
tocher had mair chance of being ten than
twa thousand

And what I say, mem, is that the law
takes no account of chances, hardly of probabilities.
Can you produce documents to
substantiate your statement T demanded
Mr. Mair with inflexible gravity, intended
to rebuke the twinkling eyes around
him.

I dour say no !' said Miss Janet, unabashed.
' The Bible says riches have
wings and tak' to flight, but I think lawyers'
papers maun have as long legs as cowardly
loons of lodgers in a retreat. What is the
use of walls and contracts, such as my late
nephew Gauvin's marriage contract, when
they vanish like smoke the moment they
are wanted ?'

I have not heard of the casualty,' said
Mr. Mair drily ; * but I thought the office

402

in Edinburgh was a provision against such
accidents.'

' The Court of Session !' exclaimed Miss
Janet disdainfully, misunderstanding his
meaning. ' He or she maun be daft, indeed,
wha has recourse to that refuge. I've
had enough to encounter in my day from
lawyers' gab, but a corfu' o' them '

I'm not sure that one woman would not
be a match for them all,' muttered Mr.
Mair. Then he said in a louder key : ' I
regret, mem, that you have been misinformed
 I must say it, with regard to your
legacy from Strathdivie, but, at least, it
has not failed your family altogether. Suffer
me to tell you I am not sure that my
friend, the late Mr. Fenton, might not have
successfully contested your claim, and refused
to acknowledge it in his will

Oh, Janet,' broke in Miss Betliia, in
desperation, * say nae mair, lest we lose
what we've got. A bird in the hand, ye
ken, is worth twa in the buss. Twa hunter

and seventy pounds is a gude lump of money,
and you are sensible that the only tidings
could ever pick up about Jean Making
gear, was that it had mast melted
wa', though you would not hear a word to
that effect.'

Hand your tongue, Betheye !' said Miss
Janet angrily.  And what did the man
mean by treating' Meye and me as gin we
were superannuate ? She's glowering' at me
for word, but somebody else maun write it
dovn for her to read  I have not the heart.
Archie Fenton maun hae been daft and no
fit to mak' a wull. Even if we had been
as auld as the hills, could he not trust us
to hand over our shares, when we were done
wi' them, to Betheye  our ain sister ?'

There is something to be said there,'
admitted Mr. Mair. ' You have ground for
complaint on that score. But a lawyer can
only act on his instructions, and I must bear
witness that Mr. Fenton was in his sound
mind when he caused that deed to be drawn

up, and when he signed it. Why, it was
two years ago, when he was in Httle worse
health than was customary with him.'

The wull is a whole hatterell collection]
of mistakes,' said Miss Janet doggedly.
* He maun have confused our names,
and our standing' in the family.'

By no means, mem ; you forget that he
gives both correctly, and that he mentions
Miss Bethia as the third daughter.'

I wudna believe it, though you were to
preach it toon my throat,' maintained Miss
Janet.

In such a case there was no more to be
said ; but the announcement that dimmer was
on the table was welcome as putting an end
to the discussion.

Then Miss Janet gave way by a hair's-breadth.
In place of taking possession of
what she wanted as her simple right, lie
asked Mr. Mair if he had any objection to
leave the will, to be looked over by the
sisters, and read by Miss Mackinnon.

No objection in the world,' said the
lawyer, courteous by nature, and really
willing, as he had been during the whole
affair, to do the poor old ladies any service
in his power. But it was not business-like
for such papers to lie about, so he entrusted
Miss Janet with the key of the desk, which
contained nothing else of any consequence.

According to old usage in Scotland, the
women of the family were not present at
the dinner after the funeral  a withdrawal
on their part doubtless due in the past to
the wild orgies which, like Irish wakes,
were wont to establish the respectable
standing as well as the hospitable practice of
the house, and at once to commemorate the
worth of the dead and solace the grief of
the male relatives among the living. Such
ghastly orgies had long since passed away,
but the peculiar reserve which forbade the
attendance of women at funerals still made
ladies, as a rule, keep their rooms in what
was supposed to be the depth of their

sorrow. Maiden ladies like the Miss Mac-cannons
were the last to change old customs.

The three sisters sat still in the room
where the will had been read, and after the
last man had shut the door behind him,
looked in each other's faces. That is, Miss
Mackinnon and Miss Janet looked, for joor
Miss Bethia, in her innocence, w-as unable to
meet the eyes of the others. She turned
away, while Miss Janet did not wait to take
possession of the will, but wrote its purport
on the slate which had been provided for
the enlightenment of Miss Mackintosh
expressed herself in a feeble version of
Miss Janet's passion that it was a cheat and
havers.'

During the explanation Mrs. Todd came
into the room, with a tray for the ladies,
and cast a lynx-eye on the desk with the
key in it.

The injured women ate and drank 
where would have been the gain in letting
good food be lost ? Miss Bethia had felt as

if every morsel she ate must choke her.
But the botch-potch, roast fowl, and pancakes,
which did credit to Mrs. Todd's plain
but efficient cookery, were not without a
solacing influence, neither were the glasses
of Madeira which Mr. Mair had taken care
should be added to the meal. What the
ladies would have called the generous fare
restored some strength to their shaken
frames, and with strength came a little
reasonableness.

Two hundred and seventy pounds wm a
lump of money. In spite of what might
have seemed grasping and avaricious in their
natures, the Miss Mackinnons had no right
sense of the value of money, any more than
if they had been children. The ladies had
been poor and growing poorer all their lives.
They had even knoMi abject poverty It
was not wonderful that they felt inclined to
exaggerate the amount of shillings and
pence in two hundred and seventy pounds,
and to think they would never come to an

end. The sisters had been startled and deeply
mortified, in the middle of their extravagant
fancies, by the first sound of what the
legacy had dwindled to. After they had
got accustomed to the truth, and had begun
to realize that it was inevitable ; after they
had found time to recall what Miss Bethia
had already remembered, of whispers of the
diminution of the property"  not listened to
when breathed long before in the Miss Mac-cannons'
hearing  a change came over the
spirit of their dreams. They commenced
to say to themselves that a little thing was
better than nothing  a great deal better  
that it was not little after all. For two
hundred and seventy pounds was a lump of
money ; enough, with what the sisters had
enjoyed lately, to secure them from want
all the days of their lives ; nay, even to
enable them to make a ' hoche ' (hidden
treasure) for the Lieutenant. With the
wonderful adaptability of human nature 
above all, of woman's nature  the Miss

Mackinnons, including Miss Janet, were
resounding their plans, and reconciling
themselves to hundreds instead of thousands,
and twos instead of tens. It was no longer
the sum itself, it was the heinous injustice
and inequality of the division of it, which
continued to trouble the ladies. Yet ' it
was not lost that a friend got,' and, in their
honest family affection, it was possible they
would end by not only facing the fact, but
by accepting it without a grudge against the
favoured individual.

CHAPTER PAGE

XXVII. THE MISS Mackintosh' HARMONIOUS

LITTLE ARRANGEMENT - - - 1

Xxviii THE OFFICERS OF JUSTICE IN ST.
MUNGO'S SQUARE CLARIBEL Drysdale
STANDS BY HER COLOURS - 19
XXIX. *LOVE WILL VENTURE IN WHERE

WISDOM Since HAS BEEN ' - - 40

XXX A HORRIBLE SUSPICION ASSAILS AULD

TAM 58

Xxxi THE SUSPICION BECOMES A CERTAINTY 84

Xxxi IN THE BALANCE - - - - 111

Xxxii A DROWNING MAN'S STRAWS - - 128

XXXIV. AULD TAM *FEY' - - . - 150

CHAPTER Poor

XXXV. SIR HUGO LAYS HIMSELF AND WIL*
Roughly COUPwT AT YOUNG EPPIE's

FEET 180

XXX VL THE SEAL TO SIR HUGO'S SUIT - 201

Xxxvi A CHARMED SAIL - - - - 210

XXXVIII. THE LAST OF RORY OF THE SHELTIES

DR. PETER ON THE Scent - 248

XXXIX. THE SACRIFICE 263

XL. A NEW CALCULATION - - - 292
XLL ATHOLE MURRAY SKETCHES A MODERN
FUGGEREI  THE MISS IVIACKINNONS*
ULTIMATUM 317

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE MISS Mackintosh' HARMONIOUS LITTLE

ARRANGEMENT.

To begin with, something closed the Miss
Mackinnons' lips on this point, and not a
word was said among them of the defrauding
of Miss Mackinnon and Miss Janet to
enrich Miss Bethia, sitting with downcast
eyes, wringing the hands hidden in her lap.

At last Miss Janet said, not so much
bitterly as with forced gaiety :

You are up in the buckle [exalted],
Betheye  an heiress ; you'll no be speaking
to me and Meye.'

VOL. in. 41

'Oh, Janet!' burst out Miss Bethia,
breaking down and sobbing with mingled
pain and shame. ' Do you think I would
touch the money ? I'll gie it back, every
penny, to you and Meye, the moment I've
got it into my fingers.'

But there's twa and whiles three at a
bargain-making,' said Miss Janet, with
wounded pride in her voice. ' Do you
think we would tak' from another  though
she happened to be our sister  what was
ours, but had been ruled wa' from us ?'

But that would be cruel !' protested
Miss Bethia, in still greater distress. 'How
could I help it ? An ill-kindred man !
Gude guide us !' pausing in horror ; ' to
think that I should speak ill of him, and
him hardly in the fools. But I never set
been on him, never.'

You o-owk, what docs that sisnifv V
Miss Janet was provoked into treating the
heiress with little courtesy.

What ails her V cried Miss Mackinnon
wrathfully. ' Is she pretending' to greet for



the man, now that he has left her the
mast of his money? I cannot stand such
hypocrisy.'

Miss Bethia wept on, regardless of the
good fortune, which was misfortune to her,
and equally unrestrained by the manner in
which her sorrow was misunderstood.

 What can I do V she lamented. ' I
never wanted your shares ; I never thocht
money would come between me and you
and Meye.'

Miss Janet was a little softened.

You can do nothing  as long as the
paper stands, the money's yours. But
we're no blaming you, save for being silly
and we'll tak' the will for the deed.'

Oh, thank you ! thank you, Janet I' said
Miss Bethia gratefully. * If only Meye and
you will not tak' me for a traitor and hypocrite
 and me never to have seen the man !
I'll no mind so muckle. But is there noway
to gie back the money, and share and
share alike as we should have done ? Why
can I not do as I like with my ain, as he did?'

412

You're fast enough with your ain said
Miss Janet, in fresh displeasure. ' It has
not been yours niair than an hour. I'll tell
you what, Betheye,' the speaker relapsed
into a sardonic mood, ' it's a' very weel to
say what you'll do or not do the noo ; but
it's as likely as not that the word o' the
pillar will bring some fair-spoken blackguard
of a man after you. You'll marry him fast;
then Meye and me will be left in the lurch,
and he'll help you to spend the money that
should have been ours.'

Never !' declared Miss Bethia ; and she
failed to simper as of old, but a dull-red
rose in her lined face and spread over it.
She had, as she would have said, given up
all thought of a man for many a day ; but
mercenary as were the notions attributed to
this man, the sudden revival of the vision
brought a shy, guilty sense of gratification,
which the next moment covered poor Miss
Bethia with confusion and remorse. Would
she sacrifice her sisters even for the best
man that ever breathed ? ' I wonder at

you, Janet !' she said, so vehemently that
there was a suspicion of weakness and fear
in the vehemence ; * an auld maid like me

There's nae rules like old ones,* said
Miss Janet jauntily ; ' and you'll cease to
be an auld maid when the scamp has made
you a young wife. Ye ken you'll be young
among the matrons, though you're auld
among; the maidens.'

It's cruel,' repeated Miss Bethia, with
an ominous intensity of distress in the
kindling fire of temptation. ' Oh ! I wish
I had the horrible money to fling it into
the fire, or cast it into Clyde.'

What good would that do ?' demanded
the matter-of-fact Miss Janet, * unless you
wanted him to loup in and fish it out.'

Miss Bethia groaned.

Stop her greeting,' broke in Miss ,
in greater disgust than before. ' I
canna bide sic false pretences, Betheye ; it's
like haudin' an ingan [onion] to your been.
Hoo can ye try sic a trick upon Janet and
me ?'

I vull greet,' Miss Eethia suddenly
turned upon her sisters ; ' I have cause to
2Teet. I thocht mv ain sisters liked and
trusted me, and I was proud to slave wi*
them and for them ; but I find I was mistaken
Yhen they're ready to misdoubt me,
for nae faut o' mine, and to tant me because
of the wrontdoinor of another

Miss Janet was taken aback bv this new
attitude of Miss Bethia, and the feelings reflected
on her face were quickly caught up
by her elder sister. They both paused,
irresolute what to sav next.

We cinna misdoubt you, Betheye,' said
Miss Janet, in a more subdued tone. * But
you maun grant this has been a shock as
well as a hardship to us  the younger to be
served out of the elders' portions  the elder
to be dependent on the younger's generosity,
or whatever you like to cart.'

Oh, it is mast abominable !' admitted
Miss Bethia, with all her heart. * But it
is no generosity  it's justice which oct to
be done ; and surely I'll be helped to dort,

though I've to get the Queen to back
me.'

It's an expensive road to the Queen,
though her Majesty is very gude and kind,'
said Miss Janet, not affording any encouragement
to the scheme, bat refraining
from the strong derision she had been practising.
The next moment she added : * I
think there may be an easier plan  it has
just flashed upon me  if you're in earnest,
Betheye, as I do not question.'

Try me,' said Miss Bethia, with trembling
eagerness.

Weel, I apprehend there's just this
parchment binding you toon  I said, as
long as the paper stands we've but to submit.
But what is to hinder us from making
wa' wit ? The wull concerns name but
morsel's and the servants  that dour, sly
maud of a housekeeper and her man. Weare
perfectly agreed, and we can easily
settle wi' servants ; we'll pay them every
bawbee of their legacy, though it's twice as
muckle as it need have been  and that is

all they'll care for. What need is there to
keep the paper and fash our heads with if?
We'll tear it up, and think nae mair o't,
while we divide Jean Mackinnon's money
fair among oorsel's/

The very thing,' said Miss Bethia, with
a great sigh of relief and of lurking regret
that the legacy had not been ten thousand
or ten hundred. In that case, even the
third fraction of it might have constituted
her an heiress, with all an heiress's privileges
and trials. She might have been
courted, she mioj-ht have needed to stand
firm, to decline to be wooed, to give her
suitors a dignified yet amiable dismissal.
There was glamour in the prospect, but it
was not for Miss Bethia. ' To destroy the
wull,' she hammered on at Miss Janet's
project, * which deals just with the servants,
to whom we can make their legacy gude,
while we are fully agreed on a fresh division
of Jean Mackinnon's money, is so easy and
natural. I wonder it did not occur to us at
since. Let us do it this minute, Janet,

before Mr. Mair or ony of the gentlemen
come back.' Miss Bethia was opposed to
the least delay. * Shall I tak' out the paper
and tear it ?' she cried.

On second thoughts, it had better be brunt,
and then there will be no trouble with the
fragments said Miss Janet, gratified with
having been the originator of a good idea,
and full of importance in putting it into
execution.  I believe I have heard,' continued
Miss Janet dogmatically, ' that,
when a wull is brunt in this way, the
parties interested stand round a candle,
and each holds a corner of the document
over the lowe, so as to mak' sure they're
all consenting to the destruction ; then if
any wite [blame] is incurred, it will faon
all alike.'

But is there ony fear o' wite ?' asked
Miss Bethia, startled. * Maybe, after a',
we had better wait and ask Mr. Mair.'

Maybe, after a', we had better let the
wull stand,' said Miss Janet scornfully, for
the resource hit upon had by this time recommended

itself thoroughly to her. It
would restore her own and Miss Making
birthright, by the curl of a flame, if
not by the stroke of a pen, and thus immediately
wipe out the insult and loss
inflicted upon them. And the act would
prevent any danger of Miss Bethia's wavering
in her design, or being overborne by the
arguments of others.

Not only was the plan Miss Janet's, and
therefore right in her eyes ; she was proud
of it, and sought to keep it in her own possession,
and carry it out independently for
herself and her sisters. She enjoyed the
notion of astonishing: and discomfiture [r.
Mair by her sharpness and promptitude.
In fact, Miss Janet had got out her head,
and was bent on ' running her own road.'

You ken I did not mean to let the wull
stand,' said Miss Betliia, hurt, and reproachful.
* But you'll speak to Mr. Mair
after. You'll tell him what you've done
with the wull he gave up to you.'

I'll speak to Mair when he speaks tome,'

said Miss Janet, full of refractoriness.
What has he, ony mair than his clerk, todo
with Fenton of Strathdivie's wuU, that
was made on our account ? Mair drew it
up, as ony other writer might have done ;
but it was not his wuU, or yours either,
Betheye, as ane might think, to hear ye
speak. You've sure learnt to tak' a great
deal upon you. You seem to forget, because
you've been preferred without reason,
that we're sour elders, and Meye's the head
of the loose.'

I cinna forget said Miss Bethia, with a
full heart.

Miss Janet went on harshly :

If you're in earnest in making' reparation
by being willing' to join Meye and me, in
what we've had cause to suppose you had
fixed to do, ye'll say no more about
it.'

Miss Bethia said no more.

When it was put to Miss Mackinnon
whether she would support her sisters in
their spirited measure, she replied with

hoarse emphasis, ' Certainly !' and looked
about for a matchbox.

There was a wax taper by the inkstand,
and Miss Janet was in such a hurry that
she would not wait to ring for a candle,
though it seemed doubtful at the first
balance whether the little liorht could effectually
consume the two or three broad-margined,
widely-written, crackling pages
of which the will was composed.

We'll tak' it leaf by leaf said Miss Janet
methodically. * There are only three o* us ;
but I'll baud twa corners, while you and
Meye can tak' the other twa, ane each.'

The process was a slow one. Miss Janet
and Miss Mackinnon stood unflinchingly,
braving the little wreaths of smoke which
seemed to rise out of all proportion to the
performance, even daring the yellow tongues
of flame that darted across the paper, and
threatened the bony fingers.

Miss Bethia shook fitfully, disturbing the
balance of the arrangement, and shrank
nervously from the burning, as if it had

been Archie Fenton putting forth fiery
fingers to execute vengeance upon her for
her contemptuous treatment of his will.

The whole fantastic incident  witnessed
under the solemn splendour of a moorland
sunset, which shone in through a western
window; the three big, gaunt, hard-featured
old women, in more or less fixed theatrically
tragic attitudes, the right hand extended,
grasping the sheet of paper ; Miss Janet's
dauntless, impassive face : Miss Making
glittering, restless eyes, lit up by an
imprisoned spirit ; Miss Bethia's features
working with anxiety and dread ; the
shivering, blackening paper ; the jets of
flame, the smoke  all bore a marvellous,
grotesque resemblance to the witches' incantations
of the Middle Ages. Fenton
of Strathdivie's will might have been one
of those bonds, written in letters of blood,
that sold souls to the foul fiend, and could
no more be burnt in fire, which was their
natural element, than the devil could perish
in his own hell.

Towards the close of the strange proceeding
there was a slight creaking of the door
and rusting of something behind it, which
caused Miss Bethia to look round in fresh
terror ; but the trifling noise ceased almost
instantly. The charred fragments of the
will dropped on the floor, and were carefully
collected by Miss Janet in the fire-shovel
and deposited in the empty grate.
Another match was lit and applied to them,
and she was soon warranted in the triumphant
announcement :

There's nathan' left but white miss
[ashes], let Mair or wha like mak' what
they can foot o't. We've snapped our
fingers at Fenton o' Strathdivie, in what
was his ain loose, too.'

'Oh I whisht, Janet, whisht I' implored
the appalled Miss Bethia.

But Miss Janet did not heed her younger
sister.

We're free to do what we like wi' our
ain,' she proclaimed exultingly.

Indeed, the Miss Mackinnons were not

disturbed in their harmonious Httle arrangement,
either on that night or before their
departure next morning.

Mr. Mair, in his character of host, sat
later over the funeral dinner than was prudent,
with regard to catching the train by
which he could reach that night the bosom
of his family, in the market-town where he
practised as a solicitor. He left in such a
hurry that he declined a parting interview
with Mrs. Todd, and contented himself with
sending his clerk to fetch the desk from the
study, and take leave for him of the Miss
Mackinnons. Indeed, Mr. Mair had not
been very favourably impressed by the
ladies. He considered rightly that he had
done all in his power for their comfort, and
as a poor return, he had been forced to bear
a considerable amount of rudeness from
Miss Janet. He was a long-suffering man,
but endurance has its limits.

The ladies, on their part, had not thought
of leaving Strathdivie the very day after
the funeral, but had rather meditated an

indefinite stay  a sort of taking possession
till their claims were settled, with the deliberate
investigation of that ' stoucherie '

o

[collection of goods in an old family house],
all or part of which they had fondly hoped
would have fallen to their share. But the
sisters were compelled to understand that
the place and everything it contained belonged
to the late owner's New Zealand
cousins, among whose property the women
had no excuse for prowling, however natural
their regretful curiosity. At the same time
they had every reason to distrust any prolonged
civilities from Mrs. Todd, the housekeeper,
who was again mistress of the situation,
having been appointed by the lawyer
to continue in her former place till the term
should brings a new tenant to the old house.
And Miss Janet, in spite of her supreme
confidence in her own powers was a little
doubtful what step to take next in the
acquirement of the money, the division of
which she had already altered in a summary
fashion. It might be necessary for the

sisters again to have that respectable family
adjunct  a man of business ; and if so, the
sooner they applied to him the better on all
these counts. Miss Janet and Miss 
filled Miss Bethia's heart with
thankfulness, by deciding to quit Strath-divine
the following forenoon.

But another person was before the Miss
Mackinnons. Mrs. Todd, in her new
mourning, accompanied by her canny lout
of a husband, in his Sunday suit, had
slipped out of the house, leaving a deputy
in charge, by break of day. Ten minutes
afterwards, the late Fenton of Strathdivie's
confidential servant might have been seen
at the little railway station, starting on a
journey by the early Parliamentary train.

In the course of the day, Mr. Mair appeared
again on the scene  not coming
quietly by train this time, but driving in
hot haste across the country, arriving at
Strathdivie to find the birds flown, if he
came in search of the Miss Mackinnons,
who had departed for Glasgow a quarter

VOL. in. 42



of an hour before. The lawyer was in an
excited, disturbed frame of mind when he
heard that the ladies were sone. He
turned the head of his reeking horse without
giving it either rest or refreshment,
saying to himself:

There is nothing for it but an application
to the fiscal ; and I doubt if I'll
come out clear in the business. I should
not havebeen so careless ; but who would
have thought the old beldame were capable
of such a trick ? But, good Heavens !
to think what will be the upshot, and how
the wretched old women will be served for
their desperate deed I'

THE OFFICERS OF JUSTICE IN ST. MUNGO's

SQUARE CLARIBEL DRYSDALE STANDS BY

HER COLOURS.

The Miss Mackinnons, arriving at home
towards the close of the day, required more
than the following night's rest to restore
them to their normal condition. They felt
as if they had gone on a long and perilous
expedition, and encountered many exciting
adventures. The journey had not been
altogether fruitless, and there was at the
end of it that happy restoration to the grey
old house in St. Mungo's Square, which
caused Miss Bethia to cry out fondly,
Eh ! hame is kindly,' and Miss Janet to
sniff the thick air as if it were her own

422

special property. She gloried in the reek.
Still, it could not be expected that the travellers
would at once master the shocks and
fatigue of so unusual an experience. The
ladies were not in trim for visitors, which
was unfortunate, since they had for their
share that day, not only the Lieutenant,
who had started from Oban on hearing the
news of Fenton of Strathdivie's death,
but, of all people in the world, Claribel
Drysdale.

Clary had come up to town from Loch-gilead,
unattended by any other member
of the family except young Tam, on his
way to his office. She had meant to do a
little shopping, remain for the night in the
house of friends of the Drysdales, and sail
back again next day. She had taken it
into her head, for some reasons known only
to herself, to call, for the first time in her
life, on the Miss Mackinnons, knowing
nothing of their recent absence, or, for
that matter, of Fenton of Strathdivie, and
belie vinT Eneas Mackinnon to be still with

the Semples at Oban. Could it be that
Clary, so calm and cool and sufficient for
herself in] all circumstances, had simply
pined for her absent lover, who was not
to be thought of as a husband for her, and,
yearning to have tidings of him, had suddenly
conceived the idea of calling on his
old grand-aunts, the indigent gentlewomen
who were her father's "protegees ?

Anyhow, there was Claribel behaving
herself very graciously, looking a wonderful
specimen of youth and beauty, in an
expensively quiet and suitable walking-dress
; a hat with hardly any trimming, from
Paris ; sober gloves and boots, also from
Paris ; a little exquisite embroidery on the
collar and cuffs of her gown. She formed
a striking figure among the others in the
dull, dingy room, and won golden opinions
from its usual occupants. Yet one would
have thought that Claribel, with her natural
and acquired elegance, was too well regulated
a person in everything, had too high and at
the same time too conventional a standard

to meet the Miss Mackinnons' views ; that
she would not be smart or bouncing, or, on
the other hand, deferential enough for those
]per seniors. However', they were paying
lier homage not merely with ulterior motives
on their grand-nephew's account, or
because of some regard for what her father.
Tarn Drysdale, had done for them first and
last. It was principally because this well-assured,
courteous, composed example of
maidenhood  maidenhood among the upstart,
wealthy, influential  dirt ' of modern
trade, that Miss Janet was wont to despise
took the old lady by surprise  took away
her breath in some occult manner, and
rendered her nearly subdued, and almost
well-bred.

There was Eneas, by far the most uncomfortable
of the party, in some degree
consoled by what in its turn amazed him
  that is to say, the unexpectedly commonplace
civility of his kinswomen.

Neither could the Lieutenant altogether
resist a throb of what he knew, at the

bottom of his heart, to be idiotic hope occasioned
by Claribel's voluntary uninvited
presence in St. Mango's Square  Claribel
with her innate refinement and dignity,
sitting apparently happy, and at her ease,
among his queer, plain old aunts. Was it
for his sake ? Could it be for his sake %
Yet, if it were so, how could he  penniless,
without the most distant prospect of rising
to any purpose in his profession  propose
to accept gratefully, and repay richly, such
rare generous devotion \

A ring at the door-bell  not loud, but
prolonged, as if delivered from weighty
considerations  startled the party, and Miss
Bethia vanished to perform the office of the
servant who had never been replaced.

Tradesmen are very forward and pushing
for orders,' remarked Miss Janet.
Does not your mamma find it so, Miss
Drysdale '?'

Well, we're rather out of the way of
shop-boys in the country ; and my mother
is so fond of marketing when sloe gets the

opportunity, that she never complains,*
answered Clary, with a pleasant laugh.

At that moment Miss Bethia looked in
with a face grown pale, a dazed look, and a
paper in her hand.

Will you come here and speak, Eneas X
She summoned him mysteriously. He

rose slowly to grant her request.

Whatis't,Betheye? Speak out. What's
a the hullaballoo X demanded Miss Janet,
her imperious curiosity, together with her
clear conscience, getting the better of her
late decorous politeness.

Thus adjured, Miss Bethia did not know
how to refuse replying. Besides, she, too,
was destitute of any serious apprehension,
and regarded the affair  which no doubt
had given her a little fright, in spite of its
absurdity  as a foolish mistake.

It's twa sierra-officers, I think, come ina
cab, saying' they have a warrant for us.'

A warrant I' cried Eneas, horrified; * an
arrest for debt you mean ? I had no idea
of this. Yes, I will speak to the men, of

course he continued, in some agitation.
But I must see you out first, Miss Drysdale.
This  this misfortune, of which I
had no conception, is not a thing for you
to be mixed up with.'

Don't mind me, Mr. Mackinnon,' said
Clary, still mistress of herself, though she
looked startled.  I shall go in a minute,
if you wish it ; but can I be of no use ?
My father is not in town, but my brother is
at the office. Could he do nothing ?'

Debt !' shrieked Miss Janet, who had
been struck dumb by the unfounded accusation.
' We do not owe a pillar sixpence.
We never did, when we were near starvation
 ladies though we were : that you did
not ken of, Eneas, you that have event us
to debt !'

I have no wish to intrude,' the civil
enough, but grave-sounding voice of the
constable spoke from the hall. The speaker
followed the voice with his person, punctiliously
removing his hat as he entered the
room, but making good his entrance. * I

must come in to do my duty. I had better
explain this is not an arrest for debt ; it is
a warrant from the fiscal to take the three
auld eddies before a magistrate

The outrage was so inconceivable that
Miss Janet laughed aloud, while Miss
Bethia's vague terror returned, and Miss
Mackinnon appealed helplessly :

Wha is he ? The drummer ? But
whaup's his drum ? Did we lose anything
yesterday, Janet  Betheye ?'

What on earth is the pretence for this
extraordinary proceeding ? There must be
some huge blunder,' insisted Eneas. ' These
are my aunts  the Miss Mackinnons  who
have lived here for more than half a century
They are well known in Glasgow  hundreds
will speak to their respectability. Good
heavens ! who has doubted it V

 I have nothing to say against it, sir,'
answered the inflexible servant of the law.
I presumed these were the Miss Mac-cannons,
and I have a warrant to take them
up.*

On what charge ?'

The charge I am ready to tell you. It
is the wilful and malicious burning of the
will of the late Archibald Fenton of Strath-divine,
at Strathdivie, on the 11th of this
month, by May Mackinnon, Janet ,
and Elizabeth or Bethia Mackintosh
have to caution the prisoners against saying
anything.'

The thing is preposterous,' protested the
Lieutenant. * It is true my aunts have
just returned from Strathdivie, where they
v>ent for the funeral of their relative, but
you may as well accuse them of setting fire
to his house as of burning his will. What
do you say, Aunt Janet '?' asked Eneas
almost cheerfully, his confidence re-established
by the incredibility of the charge.

That we brunt it, sure enough, and
what for no 1' demanded the undaunted
woman. ' The wull had no concern with
anybody save oursel's, unless it were a
couple of servants. Archie Fenton had
got out his spite at me and Meye by making

an eldest doctor  or, as some say, an eldest
son  of Betheye, who would not lend herself'
to sic treachery, so we agreed among our-sel's
to turn the tables upon the man by
burning the wull and dividing the money
fair. We'll see that the servants have their
legacy, which is mair than ane of them
deserves  an impudent lizzie  but that's
neither here nor there. Now what have
you to say against it, Lieutenant ? There's
no fraud or wang done ; it was to prevent
wrong ; neither law nor gospel can object
to that. I cannot tell what the man
means. I suppose the writer body was
angered at not getting a job. But I've
explained,' ended Miss Janet, in perfect
assurance that her explanation was satisfactory.


Miss Mackinnon and Miss Believe were
equally convinced. Miss Betheye was
asrain shaking: off her alarm, and feelings
amount of complacency for the part
she had played in the matter.

I would not have touched a farthings of

what should have been Meye's and Janet's
she added her version of the story ; * and as
long as the wull was there, they would na
tak' their ain from me, at my pleasure, and
me the youngest. There was nothing for
it but to destroy the paper, which had
only to do with our business, and mak' a
new settlement.'

As for Miss Mackinnon, she darted her
hawk's glance all around, and actually
chuckled.

Eneas Mackinnon stood the picture of
despair.

How could you be so mad '?' he broke
out, with passion that was strange in the
man. ' I thought even old women had
more sense.'

Claribel Drysdale touched him on the
arm, and drew him a little aside.

Don't you see, your aunts meant no
harm she whispered ; ' it was an accident.
Don't undeceive them yet. It would be
barbarous. I'll go with them to the magistrate.'


Impossible !' he exclaimed. ' What
would your father think % You are an angel
of goodness, but '

No, no,' she said, with a faint smile ; ' I
am not very good. I am only an idle
girl up in town for a day, and I have
nothing particular to do when nearly all
my friends are away.'

But your father '

My father has the greatest respect for
your aunts as worthy representatives of one
of the old Glasgow families. He would be
glad that I should do anything for them in
an awkward dilemma.'

' I know I ought not to allow it he
began to hesitate ; ' it would be very unpleasant
for you ; and where would be the
use '?'

The magistrate may be an acquaintance
of mine, or he may know my name  my
father has some influence. Go for my
brother, and try what he can do. You
must not seek to prevent me from accompanying
the Miss Mackinnons, if the men

will let me, and I think we can manage
that. There is no other woman to go with
them, and they may break down when they
learn the truth.*

Eneas stood and looked at Claribel like
a man struck dumb and fascinated. He
had always guessed that she was wise and
capable, but he had never known what she
could do when there was a call for the
exercise of her powers. He obeyed her 
nay, Miss Janet obeyed her, after she had
cried out violently that the magistrate
might come to her  she would not stir a
foot to go to him. Let them put a finger
on her if they dared. The Lieutenant
would take care of that, though he had to
send for his sword to strike a blow for his
aunties, and for social order in their persons.

But we are all going, Miss Janet,' said
Claribel calmly. ' All we ladies are going.
You will not refuse to accompany your
sisters and me.'

Weel, if you are proposing' to mak' a ploy
o't yielded Miss Janet doubtfully, ' if you

want to tak' a ride through the streets to
see the toon  only you can do that ony day
from your mamma's carriage.'

But I have not you or the other Miss
Mackinnons to bear me company said
Clary promptly.

'Nor Eneas here,' said Miss Janet, falling
into the trap. ' There will be room for him
on the tickle.'

No,' said Claribel, with the same clear
decision that was apt to carry everything
before it at home and abroad. * He is
going for my brother, to help to put an
end to this little difficulty ; but they will
join us immediately.'

By sheer force of character, and by
taking the lead  a proceeding unlooked for
and extraordinary where her age and sex
were concerned, but warrantable when there
was no one else to stand in the breach 
since the man entitled to act was stupefied
and sick to the bottom of his soul with
affront and dismay  Clary grasped the situation,
controlled the other actors in it, and

did the best that could be done under the
circumstances. She gave Eneas a hint of
what he was to try to do in another brief
aside.

You know, Mr. Mackinnon '  she allowed
him credit for knowledge which had
not yet come to him  ' your aunts must
not be detained a moment longer than can
be helped. Somebody must find bail for
them. Oh ! it will be very easy  my
father, if he could be got in time, Dr.
Peter Murray  oh ! dozens of people will
be willing.'

He departed instantly to fulfil her behests.
He had not her quick, practical
brain, her unfaltering self-reliance, her moral
courage ; but he had, at least, the merit of
appreciating them when he found them.
He was ready to worship her, to make her
his guiding star, to be twice the man with
her that he would have been without her.

All Glasgow ran: with the news when it
was noised abroad that the Miss Mackintosh,
of St. Mungo's Square, had been

VOL. III. 43

taken before a magistrate on a charge of
felony. Some laughter, but far more horror
and pity, were called forth. As Claribel
Drysdale had said, dozens of citizens were
willing to be bail for the unfortunate ladies.
They were not detained more than an hour,
during which Miss Janet was so smoothed
down and held in check by Clary's peculiar
tact and firmness, that the chief offender
refrained from adding to her foolish vindication
of her heinous misdemeanour the
fresh offence of gratuitously insulting the
magistrate.

The Miss Mackinnons were at home
aoain without having: incurred much harm.

The misfortune was that the business could
not rest there. The case, on the face of it,
must be sent for trial. No exercise of
interest on the ladies' behalf could prevent
the necessity for them to take their places
where other offenders had stood before
them, in the public court, and run the risk
of a sentence which, to old women, born
and bred as they had been, was all but

synonymous with death. Tarn Drysdale
was at his wits' end, and with many another
kindly Glasgow man, full of Glasgow
spirit, was willing to spare neither time,
trouble, nor expense to help his towns-avoient
in the strait into which their ignorance
and rashness had brought them.
The best counsel would be got, every available
witness procured, and every extenuating
circumstance receive a full hearing, as
if the old Virginian Mackinnon were still
making Glasgow ' trifle ' at the wag of
his finger.

Tam made no objection to Claribel's remaining
in town, and going often to St.
Mungo's Square. He was proud to think
that one of his daughters had shown such
presence of mind, and been able to prove
her loyalty to ladies in adversity. If it
was any comfort to them for Clary to call
on them, to do what she could to cheer and
counsel them, they were heartily welcome
to the comfort, so far as he and mother
were concerned. Clary was only a girl,

432

but the Miss Mackinnons might listen to
less sensible encouragement and advice,
though he said it who, perhaps, should not
say it.

For any delicate reason why Claribel
ought not to be conspicuously mixed up with
the Mackinnons and their affairs, auld Tarn
could dismiss it without another consideration.
He was entirely of opinion that this
calamity to the whole Mackinnon family
would knock on the head the wildest pretensions
of the ' officier lad ' to Clary's
favour. He could never be so base  Tarn
had almost said  even if she would listen
to him, as to propose to connect himself
with the Drjsdales, after the fellow's aunts
had rubbed shoulders with the hulks, and
after what he  Tam Drysdale  wasstrivino:
to do to avert the catastrophe. The thing
was clean out of the question.

Stout-hearted as Miss Janet was, the
trial hanging over her, with the restlessness
of Miss Mackinnon, the lamentations
of Miss Bethia, the stern remonstrances

and injunctions of the lawyers, broke her
clown, comparatively. While she still
stuck to the point that she and her sisters
had meant no ill and were morally entitled
to pursue the course they had adopted, she
ceased to indulge in hectoring. Nay, on
the great day when she had to face judge,
jury, and crowded court, she was brought to
the extreme length of not speaking till she
was spoken to. And when Miss Janet was
tamed, all were tamed, though Miss 
struggled painfully with her infirmity,
and Miss Bethia looked well-nigh
distracted.

Claribel Drysdale was present, but she
did not sit near the old ladies. That place
was for their agitated, handsome nephew
from the Barracks. But it was she who
had suQfQfested to him to take it, and it was
she who had induced Lady Semple to come
with Dick and express her sympathy with
her son's friend. Moreover, Claribel admitted
that she was in the Court at once to
maintain the spirits of her singular charge.

and to do what she could to keep them in
order.

The judges were in their seats. The
jury were sworn in. The Miss Mackinnons
had surrendered to their friends' bail,
and pled guilty ; the case was argued in
earnest on both sides. It was no mere
form or piece of mockery for as simple and
ridiculous a transgression as ever the law
laid hold of. On the one hand were
ranged the insubordination of the proceeding,
the aggravation of its committal by
persons of birth, education, and mature
years, its evil as a precedent. On the other
hand were marshalled the absence of
criminal intent on the part of the offenders,
their stupid but honest ignorance of the
law, their frank and full admission of what
they had done the moment the question
was put to them, with the crowning extenuation
that they had not devised wrong to
any human being by their lawless act ;
they had merely agreed among themselves
to divide, as they judged, more fairly the
money which had come to them by right.

The law might say that this was a lame
defence, but what right-minded man could
refuse to admit its cogency ?

All unseemly demonstrations of curiosity
and amusement were put down while the
verdict was in suspense. As a matter of
fact there could only be one  that of guilty
to which indeed the Miss Mackinnons
had pled. The question was, what would
be the relative mildness or severity of the
sentence the judge must deliver % The
trespass against authority, had been as
audacious as trespass could be ; but in consideration
of the freedom from malice, and
the sex and age of the trespassers, justice
was tempered with mercy.

One month's imprisonment, without hard
labour, in Glasgow Gaol, was awarded to
the three Miss Mackinnons.

My lord ' said Miss Janet, recovering
from her dumbness and stumbling to
her feet. But she was denied a last protest.
She and her sisters were surrounded
and hurried out of Court.

LOVE WILL VENTURE IN WHERE wisdom AI>X'E

HAS BEEN.'

Clary was the first to utter a modified congratulation.
The result might have been
so much worse.

Never mind, Miss Janet ; a month will
soon be over. Everybody knows you meant
no harm. It was all that horrid Fenton of
Strathdivie, with his ridiculous will. Your
friends will come and see you on all the
visiting-days.'

Lassie,' said Miss Janet, for she had
grown familiar with her young ally, * do
you think I would demean myself' to mak'
a moan, though Averse been war tret than
thieves and vagabonds  his that have paid

our taxes, the police-tax among them 
every shilling' to the Queen and country,
since the year that my father died ? I was
only going to tell the judge that there had
been word of our great-grandfather being
sent to the Tower of London, for although
he was not just out with Prince Charlie,
there was no doubt that the Mackinnon of
that day waited on the Prince at Sheffield
House. It would better have become the
Croon to give his descendants lodgings in
the Tower, if so be we were to suffer imprisonment
for setting wrong right, than to
send us to the common pile.'

Oh, Janet,' Miss Bethia wailed, ' think
of the journey for Meye ! They may put
irons on us in the pile, but they cannot bring
us to the block there.'

The block 1' cried Miss Janet. ' It
would be the hangman's wuddie [gallows.'

No, no Clary interposed fearlessly.
*Why do you frighten your sister, Miss
Janet, and slander the powers that be ? You
will only have to stay in comfortable rooms

where you can have books and work and anything
you wish, till you come out and return
to your own house in St. Mungo's Square,
in the course of four weeks.'

When the Miss Mackinnons had tasted
the penalties of modern captivity, had survived
the first shock, and found themselves
not fatally injured by it, they were heard to
say that prisoners did not know what it was
to hive. If they had learnt to deny themselves,
and to fare as ladies and gentlemen
had often to fare, they would think little of
imprisonment  rather, they would count it,
if they had done no wrong of which they
ought to repent and be ashamed, a very
decent sort of refuge ! Certainly folk could
not get out when they wanted, but then
they did not want to go out in rainy weather
  and when did it not rain in the west ?
There was never a loss without a compensation.
As for anything else  bed and
board, fuel and light, the sufferers by the
law's severity were bold to complain. It
was the innocent people that had to keep

up comfortable gaols who were entitled to
cry out, and perhaps it was but just that
some time or other they should reap the
benefit of what they had long contributed
to maintain.

Unquestionably the Miss Mackinnons, in
the philosophic spirit at which they had
arrived, had all the alleviations which could
be procured for them in their peculiar circumstances.
Among these were the constant
visits of Claribel Drysdale, who
never missed a visiting-day. She had taken
the Miss Mackinnons regularly under her
protection. How and why she endured
what was so antagonistic to her own taste,
nobody could tell. The fact remained that
she did it. She knew, as Maggie Craig
had known before her, that the eccentric
old ladies were come of the cream of old
Glasgow ; that in reality, some of their
objectionable qualities were the growth of
the arrogance and irreproachability of their
ancient social claims. But then Claribel
Drysdale had cared nothing for any cream

of Glasgow, old or new ; she had appeared
to build her hopes and ambitions on a
different foundation. Was it that, having
been drawn into the use of her finer faculties,
she enjoyed the exercise too keenly to
be willing to relinquish it, or to consent to
forego its reward ? Was it that the rage of
conquest came over her, conquest of elements
the most opposed to those in her own
character, conquest of herself as well as of
others ; a proud determination to show
that she was equal to any difficulty, and
mistress of it before she had done ? Was
it simply that deep down in Claribel Diys-
dale's calm, strong, well-balanced nature,
there was a fountain of self-devotion, and
one had unlocked the spring ? He possessed
other and more evident attractions
for her ; but was the most potent attraction
of all really what was helpless and hopeless
in him, which, in place of provoking and
repelling her, appealed irresistibly to her
strength of purpose, her instinct of ruling,
and talent for making the best of things?

Among Clary's tastes had not been the
rustic one of early rising, which had been
found in her sister Eppie. Yet Claribel
was, at this time, repeatedly the first at the
breakfast-table at Drysdale Hall, which, as
in all similar establishments, was regulated
with a view to the men of the house setting
off for business before the idler world was
stirring. Clary would make the most unfaltering
request for the use of the carriage
at an unheard-of hour in the morning.
Neither did she make the smallest concealment
of her object. She was going to
drive in to Glasgow, to the City prison, to
see the Miss Mackinnons. She wished to
be there as soon as the gates were opened.

Eppie junior marvelled; young Tarn
stared ; Eppie senior looked troubled, but
shrank from interfering. Auld Tam was
blind. He even glanced up from his ham
and Qg to express his approbation.

It's very gude of you, Clary, to think
of the auld eddies in the trouble, in which
there is no disgrace  none to forbid your

going among them, even without your
mither, at this hour. Still, it is very mindful
and pretty of you, my dear.'

Not at all,' said Claribel, turning her
handsome face, unmoved in its clear paleness,
on her father ;  I go to please myself
I have taken the Miss Mackinnons
under my care. They are my old ladies
now.'

Plenty of people were remarking significantly
on Miss Drysdale's extraordinary
attentions to three old, unattractive women,
the victims of their idiotic conceit and
silliness. Mrs. Drysdale well knew this,
though she could not brings herself to transfer
the knowledge to a quarter from which
it might be energetically acted upon. Ill-natured
tongues even went so far as to say
that Lady Semple was enough a woman of
the world to keep herself out of the entanglement.
She had shown a little kindliness
on her own account to the Miss Mac-cannons
because they had really become
objects of pity, and her son had been in

the same regiment and on intimate terms
with young Mackinnon. But she had taken
care never to accompany Claribel Drysdale
to the gaol  Claribel Drysdale, who had
been so particular and had not thought any
man in Glasgow fit for her ! She must
have been enoaofed beforehand to the
nephew  a penniless officer. Why had auld
Tam Drysdale permitted it 'i Why did he
not interfere now and put a stop to the engagement,
when it was almost certain that
Mr. Mackinnon must leave the army, and
no longer retain his claim to as much as a
subaltern's rank and a starvation income ?
A fine end to Claribel Drysdale's proud
pretensions I

But auld Tam was possessed by another
idea, and saw nothing of what was passing
before his very eyes.

The last time Clary drove, before women
like her were to be seen abroad, to that
strange destination for a girl in the upper
classes, and waited in the carriage till the
time to enter, she caught a glimpse of Eneas

Mackinnon, with a similar intention, standing
where he could best escape observation.
Even from the little she could see of him,
she could judge that he looked ill and dejected.
The next moment she alighted and
walked towards him, coming up behind
him and making him turn, startled by the
quiet mention of his name  ' Mr. Making


He shook hands with her in silence,
colouring highly as he did so.

Why don't you say ' well met " ?' she
rallied him.

Well met here !' he exclaimed with more
desperate sadness than bitterness, for he was
hardly ever a bitter man.

Yes ; why not here, when it is for the
last time ? Your aunts will be free in three
days.'

 Weel, I suppose for their sakes I ought
to rejoice,' he said with an effort ; ' as I
should thank you for your great kindness
to them.'

No, indeed ; no thanks. I told my father

that already this morning. I come to please
myself. I have taken the old ladies under
my wing.'

He looked at her wistfully, but when he
spoke again he had dropped her out of the
conversation.

I ought not to grudge them their release,
poor old souls he said slowly. ' They

brought me up, and have always cared forme
a hundred times more than I deserve,
and I have not been able to do anything
for them. I know now, though I
was a dolt at the time, that when my aunt
Bethia had fever, the whole family might
have died of starvation, but for the help
which your father and Dr. Murray gave
them. I may well forgive the most egregious
of their blunders  of course they did
not know the mischief they were doing to
themselves or any other person. But
they have put the finishing-touch to my
disadvantages  to the gross mistake which
stranded me in the army  not that I have
any reason to suppose I could have done
VOL. III. 44

much good in any other profession. I had
better walk into the Clyde at once, and save
myself and my friends further trouble which
wall be ill repaid.'

You  a soldier !' she said, in her low
distinct voice.

I shall not be a soldier much longer,'
he declared. ' Why should I bring a slur
upon the service to which I have been a
small gain at the best, by continuing in it
after the pass to which my people have
brought themselves and me?' and he looked
up at the prison walls. * This is a little
incident in my family history which will
not be forgotten.*

 Don't seek that it should be forgotten  a
foolish,! grant you very foolish, but perfectly
guileless mistake of three old ladies 
why, it was a thing innocent children might
have done. I wish your brother officers
may have nothing worse to reveal in the
histories of their families,' she said fearlessly.


You are too good,' he told her again.

But the very absurdity of the affair will
perpetuate its memory. I do not wish to
blame anybody, I do not wish to crave pity
from you ; but it is the last straw which
breaks the camel's back

*Then the camel should get somebody
else to help to bear it.'

Who would 1' he asked quickly. * I
have nothing' to offer in return but the
miserable pittance of a lieutenant in a
marching regiment, which I can only make
pay my own expenses by scraping and
saving. Miss Drysdale, you can't tell what
a manager I am,' he said, with a little
bitterness this time ;  how I save up my
stores and make my old clothes do double
duty, like an old woman. What would the
rich young Glasgow fellows think if they
saw behind the scenes ? They have a
tolerably accurate knowledge, indeed, that
I am impecunious, but wouldn't they laugh
awfully at my dodges ?'

The rich young Glasgow fellows,' she
said, with scorn, ' would half empty their

442
U. OF L LIB.

purses to be like you in some respects, and
they would do well to make the little sacrifice.
But I know more of the rich young
Glasgow girls. I suppose you would say
we were very extravagant ; at least, so Lady
Semple tells me. We would give more fora
lace flounce, or a fur trimmings, than would
keep a poor, respectable middle-class family
for a year. And it is not all in bad taste,
some of us dress tolerably well  confess it,
Mr. Mackinnon,' she demanded  gaily for
Clary, who was generally too dignified to
be gay.

Your dress, like everything else about
you, is perfection ; and that's what drives
poor devils to destruction he muttered,
half piqued, half-puzzled.

I have always liked to dress well, and
to dress in a way that becomes a rich man's
daughter ; but do you suppose I should
care to do it if  if I were a poor man's
wife ? Don't you see it would no longer
be in keeping ? It is not so much the
dress as the sense of fitness I mind.'

But you would not be in your right
place as a poor man's wife,' he said in agitation
; ' no penniless wretch of a subaltern
would presume

We were not talking of subalterns,' she
said demurely ; ' and as for presumption,
could it be presumption if the person most
concerned did not think so V

 Claribel !' he said.

Eneas !' she answered.

 It would be dishonourable in me to
take advantage of your generosity.' He
struggled to act up to his conception of the
character of a gentleman.  I can hardly
keep myself  we should have to be dependent
on your father. He would never
consent. I have felt before now that he
desired to hold me at arm's length  that
you might have nothing to say to me, though
lately he has not thought it worth his
while to use such precautions. He has
been a good friend to my poor old aunts in
their trouble ; but I have sunk fathoms in
his estimation, socially.'

She listened without contradicting him ;
indeed, she admitted candidly :

I don't say you are wrong. My father
has a greater respect for the old than for
the young Mackinnons. He does not think
you are a match for a Drysdale.' It was
plain speaking, and he winced. She went
on  ' But when I marry, it will be I who
marry, and not my father. No one knows
that better than he, and he is good and
kind, as well as clever and successful. He
is respected for more than his wealth and
social position. I am sure he could not be
utterly inconsistent if he tried

I have no doubt your father is all you
say,' said the Lieutenant, but in anything
rather than an assured tone.

*He's not a small tyrant,' insisted Claribel.
He is neither unfair nor cruel. He may
disapprove, but he will not long dispute my
riofht of choice, or refuse me a daughter's
portion, when he is convinced that I am in
earnest.'

'I trust you are right,' he said nervously;

but it seems too splendidly good news to
be true ; I cannot believe it. I fear I must
be taking a mean advantage of your '

Simplicity,' she finished his sentence for
him with a lauoh.  No, don't treat me as a
simpleton, and please don't distress yourself
on my account, as if I had become your
prey  for it is really too good of you. J
have always known what I was about 
always seen and taken what suited me best ;
and if I find, on mature consideration, that
you suit me  why need you object ? You
don't really, else I should not have said
what I have  I should not be here at all, T
dare say.'

Object !' he exclaimed, in a tone which
carried conviction with it.

 There is one advantage of being come
of the people,' she proceeded calmly.

Have you never observed how much the
rich Glasgow girls manage their own lives
and settle their fortunes % I am not a great
admirer of the causes which have led to
such a result, but I have always claimed

my independence, and prized it, and my
father would be the last to seek to deprive
me of it

* I hope you are right he said emphatically.


I am right she told him ; ' neither my
father nor my mother are, even in theory,
aristocratic parents. They would never
dream of coercing their children  at least,
not their daughters. I am not certain
whether my father might not have been
tempted to use indirect influence where my
brother was concerned, to get him to enter
the business, my father's heart was so set
upon it. But that is quite another thing
from interfering with his daughters in what
is their affair. If my father is not altogether
willing, I don't think your aunts
will find fault,' she said, with a womanly
archness that was both Wonderful and
charming in Clary.

No, indeed ; but how shall I ever than k
you ?'

By believing and trusting me. Don't

you see that will be your duty and privilege
henceforth V

Thus, in the raw morning, in that doleful
place, where miserable men and women were
wont to meet and part, two hearts went together
and sang their song of joy, as if they
had been in Eden. At the gate of Glasgow
Gaol, Claribel Drysdale, the proudest girl in
Glasgow, plighted her troth and resigned
her liberty  if that could be called resigning,
which was in fact taking Eneas 
under her protection, and determining
to make the most of him, as of herself,
in all time to come.

A HORRIBLE SUSPICION ASSAILS AULD TAM.

What was auld Tarn about, that he could
permit his eldest daughter, his * educate,
handsome, tottered lass,' to throw herself
away on a cool beggar of a penniless soldier
 a man without the brains to keep his
old relations from a deed which had landed
them in Glasgow Gaol, and awakened the
mingled laughter and pity of the whole
city, the whole country ? The very monstrousness
of such a conjecture, the very
audacity of Eneas Mackinnon's continuing
to have hopes and claims, served to put
Tarn off his guard. He never dreamt that
any precautions were necessary after the
Miss Mackinnons had done for themselves
and their grand-nephew effectually.

There was more than magnanimity and
good feeling in Tam's exertions on the old
ladies' behalf  there was a certain serious
conviction that in making them, all danger
from that quarter was over. And auld
Tam would have been right if he had not
left Clary out of his calculations  if he had
not failed to make allowance for a tenacity of
purpose and power of getting her own way
by bending everything and everybody, including
the chief obstacles to her will, and
the very persons who ought to have had
the deciding vote, to do her bidding.

With Clary to overrule circumstances and
constrain Eneas Mackinnon to follow her
lead, Tam ought never to have been sure of
what might or might not happen. But in
addition to his false security in the persuasion
that the * officier lad ' would not
have the face any longer to look at Clary,
and that the girl herself had listened to
reason and was actuated by motives of mere
philanthropy, Tam Drysdale's attention
was suddenly violently distracted and held

fast in another direction. A crowd of interests
of greater importance  nay, of vital
moment  pressed upon him, till the question
of Clary and her settlement in life
dwindled into a drop in the bucket, a speck
on the horizon.

On the very day that Claribel's future
was settled at the gaol-door, her father had
gone to the office of a solicitor named Greg,
who had been employed in the Miss Mac-cannons'
case, whose bill auld Tarn had
taken it upon him to discharge. The bill
was not longer than he had expected, and
he was not the man to grudge it, so that
he was in a placid enough frame of mind.
Having come a little distance, he felt inclined
to tarry a moment and talk at his
ease, particularly as the owner of the office
was an exceptionally pleasant old gentleman,
possessed of a good deal of curious professional
information, beyond what was of a
private and confidential nature, which he
had no objection to air for the benefit of his
clients.

As I told you, Mr. Drysdale,' said Mr.
Greig  a stout, bald-headed man who sat
facing his visitor, slightly flourishing a
pencil and laying down the law, which was
in a manner his own property  * the ladies
may be thankful they got off as they did.
It is an old story, the contract which gave
them a claim on Strathdivie. I'm not quite
clear that Fenton might not have disputed
it; you see, there was a certain power vested
in the Fentonss, which was in itself something
of a flaw. But marriage contracts are, like
the marriages they represent, not things to
parry with. They are about as bad as
trustee ships ; and I consider that it must
be a most extraordinary will which gives
more trouble and brings more grist to the
lawyer's mill, than these two other devices
of the enemy.'

Do you say so, sir V answered Tarn,
who did not at the moment care much
about the statement, but who had a shrewd,
intelligent man's general desire to receive
trustworthy information on any subject, not

to say on one which cropped up periodically
in most family histories. * I had no marriage
contract, for the very good reason that
I had little enough to settle on my wife
when I got her. But after a man has
made some money, and has doctors belonging
to him, it may be as well for him
to ken what is necessary on the subject.
Now that I come to think of it, I have a
marriage settlement which came accidentally
into my possession not very long syne.'
Some feeling of delicacy and not of craftiness
prevented auld Tam from saying whose
marriage settlement it was. He only added,
after an instant, while the lawyer listened
as if he were on the alert for what might
concern himself, ' I had almost forgotten
the existence of the paper, in place of
putting it into the hands of the person
who has most right to it.'

Then this is a most fortuitous conversation,'
said Mr. Greig briskly. ' Take my
advice, sir, and do not let the grass grow
on your forwarding the deed to its proper

destination. You are not aware what
weighty issues may hang on its contents.'

Hours, Mr. Greig !' exclaimed Tarn, a
little impatiently. ' It has not to do with
any living creature. Both of the contracting
parties are dead, after having cleverly
disposed of what they contracted for, mair
than twenty years syne.'

That does not matter a brass farthings
insisted Mr. Greig, as if he enjoyed the
irrelevancy of the protest, and the superiority
of marriage contracts to such
trifles as death and the making away with
worldly goods. ' Marriage contracts have
to do with generations unborn, whom they
fetter beforehand. They are no joke, Mr.
Drysdale. Why, the very settlement that
led indirectly to the act of which the Miss
Mackinnonswere guilty, might have opened
your eyes alike to the security and the
danger of marriage contracts.'

Tam was startled ; but he failed as yet
to see what might be the full significance of
the communication to him.

I understand about a charge like that
on the estate of Strathdivie,' he said deliberately
; ' but you do not mean to say that
a dead man, by the stroke of a pen, could
control sale and purchase, and hinder the
business of the world where his bairns'
bairns, or heirs farther off still, were in
question ? Let us suppose a case he continued,
warming to the dispute, and feeling
a thrill, as it were, of premonition pass
through him when he gave with double
consciousness his imaginary example. * A
bargain has been made without heed to an
existing marriage contract, maybe without
the knowledge of sic a trap, though, according
to your tale, it is binding on both the
bargainers ; do you mean to tell me that
the paction will be broken and some innocent
man condemned to loss, because he had the
misfortune to be ignorant of what was out
of his way? What justice would there be
in that V

 I'm not prepared to say about the justice,'
said Mr. Greig cautiously. 'There

may be two sides to the question, and a
good deal of argument on either side. Bat
I can speak for the law  that goes as far as
you say.'

Then I take leave to say I'll have a
poorer opinion of the law from this day,'
said Tarn stiffly. ' I was wont to think
that law and justice in this country were
as nearly ane as human frailty would allow ;
but, if I'm to trust a legal authority, I've
been in error.'

I beg your pardon, my dear sir ; there
are limits to marriage contracts,' said Mr.
Greiof, stroking his own bald head softly.
He did not wish to offend an influential
client, neither did he like  to his credit  -
to wound an honest man.

I should hope so,' said Tam sharply.

We have been speaking vaguely,' went
on the other, with increasing suavity ; * we
have been implying, for one thing, that there
are descendants to profit by the contract,
which, by-the-bye, is registered and placed
where all men may read it, if they will.'

VOL. III. 45

 Humph !' said Tarn, ' and Avhat if they
are not readers of sic documents ? What
if they never heard tell of sic a privilege
or necessity  whichever you may like to
call it

Mr. Greiof bean again to smooth down
the crown of his head tenderly, as if it had
been the man he was addressing.

You've had enough to do with heritable
property, Mr. Drysdale, to be well acquainted
with the nature of title-deeds.
You know that every prudent man  I may
say, every man in his sober senses  will
desire to see such deeds before he invests
in the lands or the houses that the papers
represent. Well then, marriage contracts
are not so far out of the category. A purchaser
who has any reason to suppose there
may have been such a contract, or indeed
Without supposing at all, for the greater assurance
of himself and his family, is bound
to apply for a warrant, called * a search'*
to satisfy himself that there is no prior obligation
to interfere with his future rights.'

That is to say said Tarn, with a fine
flavour of irony, *he should prepare for
falling' among' thieves

He might do worse said the lawyer,
with a laugh, declining to make a personal
application of the remark. * I am aware
that the precaution is often neglected
among acquaintances and friends, but it
ought not to be. You know the Spanish
proverb, about not trusting your own father
to count money.'

'It is a blackguard saying !' cried Tarn
indignantly.

I am afraid it is admitted Mr. Greig
candidly. ' But apart from that, there maybe
ignorance, as you said, on both sides,
in selling without the liberty to sell, as well
as in buying without the power to buys
Surely, without any prejudice, it is a duty
to guard against the possibility of such
mutually ruinous ignorance, though there
are other laws that offer some compensation
to the unwary

I cannot stop to hear them ; and I am

452

free to own that what I have heard does
not recommend itself to me. But marriage
contracts are not things that I have ony
broke with as yet,' he added with sudden
decision while he rose, ' even if I had not
got enough of law for one day  if sou will
forgive me for saying so, Mr. Greig,' ended
Tam, recovering his natural courtesy.

Mr. Greig balanced his pencil between
his fingers after Tam had left him, and
pondered a moment.

I thought auld Tam Drysdale had been
less stupid and better informed,' he ruminated,
with a shade of professional narrowness.
* He is more intolerant and less
reasonable than I had pictured him. T daresay
his success is wasting him and making
a bully of him  I have often seen the process
 or he may have been bitten in some
of his purchases ; they say he is adding
field to field, and buying in all the small
crofts about Drysdale Haugh. These prosperous
men hate to he beaten in the value
of a halfpenny. Anyway, he will not grant

even to himself that he has come off the
loser by the business. He's a dour dog, auld
Tarn, but he's not the worst sort. I was a
fool to stroke him the wrong way ; however,
he's not the kind that bears malice.'

The lawyer  lawyer though he was 
failed to connect the momentary heat
which Tam had shown, with his voluntary
announcement, at the beoinnino of the conversation,
that he had come into the possession
of a marriage contract which was,
none of his. Nor, for that matter, did
Tam in so many words acknowledge to
himself that there was any link between
the two facts, unless by the vehemence
with which he kept repeating, as he drove
out the same afternoon to Drysdale Hall,
that he had nothing to do with such riddles,
such provisions made, and snares laid for the
unsuspecting.

Mrs. Gavin Mackinnon, Miss Craig that
was, had given her husband the power of
selling Drysdale Haugh and the dye works
to Tam Drysdale. Why should she have

been at the trouble and expense of granting
the man such power, if it was not hers to
grant, if in professing to do so she defrauded
generations unborn  generations
descended from her and Guy Mackinnon ?
Would she not take care that everything
was plain when it was so much her own
interest to be careful ? He, Tarn Drysdale,
had bought the place in good faith, with
honest money, hardly won, and the farm
and the works had belonged to his father's
kinsman  to a Drysdale, long before the
name of Mackinnon had been heard on the
Aytoun Water. Who would be mad enough
to dispute Tam's purchase ? What law was
there in the universe that could dare to call
itself law, and at the same time question his
title to Drjsdale Haugh ?

But was there any mention of heirs in
that ill preserved, ill-gotten contract between
Eneas Mackinnon and ]margaret
Craig which had reached him  Tam Drysdale
 by a strange mischance, if not by a
projected fraud ?

He could not for the life of hin answer
the question, at which he kept quarrying
afresh during every mile of the road between
Glasgow and Drysdaie Hall. Was
there no mention of children in the contract,
as there certainly was not in that
will of oldDrysdale's, norwich Tarn had proposed
to barter the other ? or was there no
such coincidence, which should in itself, perhaps,
have been singular ? Had he merely
overlooked the clause because the paper
had struck him as worse than useless, a
record of disappointed hopes and lost opportunities
'{

All the time that Tam was scouting the
apprehension as unreasonable and impracticable,
and telling himself what a fool he
was to suffer even a momentary scare from
the long-winded sentences and long-webbed
Words of a book-man  a lawyer  he
harassed himself with a fruitless effort to
satisfy this doubt. * Whitebreeks ' went
through his paces uselessly, where his
master was concerned. For once the school-children,

lingering for him at Birlie Brae,
looked wistfully in his face, and meeting
no responsive glance, shrank from hanging
on to the dogcart, and fell back discomfited,
deprived of the ride which he himself had
described as so sweet a pleasure to juvenile
trespassers. Auld Tam neither saw their
wonder and disappointment, nor did he
observe beast or bird, field or hedgerow,
on his homeward way through the stubble-fields,
and between the hedges growing red
with hips and haws. He was in a brown
study  most unusual with him  the whole
road.

Thompson, the groom, glancing askance
at his master, gave his own head ever so
slight a shake  either auld Tam was on the
verge of a fit of apoplexy, or, as the idea
of any other loss of power in that quarter
was unfamiliar to the servant, he judged
his master must have made another leap to
the heights of fortune, which would land
him among dukes and earls, and take him
away from driving in a dogcart to and

from a city office. But would he ever be
so happy again in the highest places, as
when Thompson drove him behind 'White-greeks
' as regular as the clock, going over
the ground  every inch of which he knew
in a given time, neither too fast nor too
slow, but just what was fit for a gentleman
of auld Tam's years and substance, with
the progress made between his grand house
and his place of business, where he had
risen from behoof a workings man and earned
all his money ? Thompson made the reflection
on his own account sentimentally.

The spell was not broken by the appearance
of the two Eppies, ready to meet and
greet the husband and father. Yet neither
did their presence, nor the sight of Drysdale
Hall, in what its master had fondly
regarded as its perfection, inflict a pang, as
they might have done, or might come to do.
He only saw them as in a dream. The
most active trouble he was sensible of assailed
him when his eye fell upon young
Tarn, whose hours were not the same as his

father's, and who generally returned by the
railway, which had a station near the
bleachfield. His father had been so eager
to embark young Tarn with him in the
business in which he was now a partner,
with a share in its liabilities as well as its
profits, that the elder man had forgotten
the responsibilities which he laid upon his
son.

Auld Tarn put a force upon himself  he
had early learnt self-mastery  he met the
advances of his family, he went and dressed
for dinner, and sat at the foot of his table
in the ordinary fashion. But the impulse
was strong upon him to dispense with the
usual arrangements and burdensome formalities,
including the eating of the principal
meal of the day, set all aside, retire to
his business-room, and there investigate the
terror that  pretend to himself as he might
was chilling his blood and tugging every
moment harder at his heart-strikers.

Only love, watching auld Tarn with Argus-eyes,
detected that his appetite and his conversation

were the result of a hard struofirle.
It was the elder Eppie who made the
discovery, which astonished and even
frightened her a little. But tender affection
has its sure intuitions and is equal to
most situations; besides, both of the Eppies
had a fine good sense of their own. Mrs.
Drvsdale would not call attention to a mood
of body and mind which it was clear her
husband sought to keep to himself, by assailing
him with observations and inquiries.
She behaved with true delicacy  not even
approaching him on the plea of ministering
to his wants. She kept back young Eppie
with her smaller experience, taking her
aside and telling her simply father had  a
sore head,' and would prefer to be undisturbed
; she might give him a song by-and-by,
if he came into the drawing-room.

Supposing it was his heart and not his
head vv'hich ailed auld Tam, Eppie, in the
middle of her abounding sympathy, was
willing to wait her husband's time to communicate
his cares.

At last auld Tam could retreat to his
den  his innocent stage for playing at being"
a laird and a J, P., where he had not even
been cumbered by business routine. He
closed the door, bolted it for the first time
in his life, looked round on the engravings
of reaping machines, Brobdignagian turnips
and fat cattle, felt the discrepancy between
the past and the present, and said grimly
to himself, ' I might be going to commit a
murder,' and then went straight to his desk,
unlocked it, and turned to the compartment
in which he had put the two papers, till he
could see Lieutenant Mackinnon about
them. Succeeding events, conspicuous
among them the danger in which the Miss
Mackinnons had stood, had occupied him
and prevented him from carrying out his intention.
In fact, he had been hindered from
thinking, with any distinct purpose, till
that day of Sandy Macnab's call with Tory
o' the Shelties, and of the deed and the
contract which auld Tam had taken into
his own hands, under the impression that

the papers were safer with him than with a
crazy Highland beggar. Certainly, when
Tarn had paid for them, it had been more
from a movement of half-reluctant compassion
for a miserable fatuous wretch who
had deluded and overreached himself, than
as offering a price for documents, one of
which had no interest, and the other only a
sentimental attraction, for him.

There were the two old battered but
still perfectly legible papers, with the more
modern slip appended by some officious
pedantic Highland minister or schoolmaster,
as Tam had left them, safe enough in truth.
He began to wish he had never seen the
deeds, that they had been relinquished to
the tender mercies of a madman. If
Sandy Macnab had not been so forward  if
Tory had not been so greedy, and cunning,
and weak of wit  if that strange minister
or schoolmaster had not been so punctilious,
the papers might have lain still where the
careless, swaggering sinner Guy Mackinnon
had left them, and plagued nobody.

But since they were here in this desk, by
a queer coincidence, they must be dealt
with.

Auld Tarn sat down and proceeded to
meet his fate. Yet, brave man as he was,
he continued to dally with it, to tell himself
he was grossly exaggerating the importance
of the contents of one of these
papers. Since Mrs. Mackinnon had given
her husband the power sell Drysdale Hall,
such a power must have existed ; neither
he nor she could have been such an idiot as
to take the power for granted, be guilty of
an unlawful act, and commit a wrong against
their children, born or unborn.

As it happened, the will which Tarn
Drysdale had looked at last, the only time
he had gone over the deeds, was lying on
the top of the contract. He took it up
and began to read it through, word for
"S'ord, as if it had been that with which he
had to do  as if it were likely to contain
some information which might throw light
on the uncertainty with regard to the provisions

of the other  an uncertainty which
one glance at the proper place would determine
for ever.

But old Drysdale's will disinheriting auld
Tarn's father had nothing more to say to
his son than it had said before, even though
he methodically reckoned up the period
between the dates of the deaths of the
uncle in Scotland and the adopted niece in
India  which had made all the difference
in the Avorld in the succession, and enabled
Maggie Craig to step into her mother's shoes
and keep out the Drysdale cousin.

With one hard-drawn breath, auld Tarn
put down the will and took up the marriage
contract, reading it as he had read the
other, line by line and sentence by sentence,
through a few of the ancient barbarous
words and a dozen of the labyrinthian repetitions
in which the law delights. At last
he came to the technical phrases, standing
out on the page as if to strike him a blow,
written as if in letters of fire to burn into
his brain the disastrous intimation which

they contained. Yes, the children born of
the marriage of Gavin Mackinnon and
Margaret Craig, their heirs, male and
female, were deliberately set forth, mentioned,
and re-mentioned, as if they were
the very persons for whom the contract had
been made, in whose protection it still unfolded
its yellow parchment wings, and
commanded all infrinoers of its obligations
to renounce their unwarrantable assumptions
and dissforGfe their dishonest o-ains.

It became clear as day to Tam Drysdale,
in less than a moment, that neither Gavin
Mackinnon nor his wife had held the remit
to sell Drysdale Haugh, which was reserved
for the children that mioht be born to them.
It was also plain enough to a man who had
known something of the couple  how it
had happened  that there was nothing
wonderful in it unless the recklessness and
folly of all concerned  himself included.
Mr. and ]Mrs. IMackinnon had been the very
pair likely to get sick of the unsuccessful
struggle with the bleach fields and printing-works,

to be ready to shift them on other
shoulders  first, on their partner's, Mr.
Murray's, and then on Tam's. The husband
and wife had been just the people who
would naturally snatch at the opportunity
of getting rid of the whole concern, and of
having a sum of ready money substituted
for an unremunerative farm and a distasteful
business. They would not stay to investigate
the power to work their will, they
would take it for granted. The two men
who might have called the full-grown
children to account, the lawyers who had
framed the settlement for preventing such
a disposal of the inheritance, with the
trustees, were either out of the way, or
dead. The contract itself was not forthcoming.
Lieutenant Eneas, if a baby's
feeble voice could have been heard protesting
against the injury inflicted on his prospects,
was not born. It might have been
that the future parents had given up the
expectation of having children, and when
the unlooked-for event was foreshadowed
VOL. III. 46

had decided between themselves that what
was done could not be undone, and that the
child would experience no great loss in the
withdrawal from its keeping of a succession
which had prospered so ill with his father
and mother.

All had favoured the fatal blundering.
Auld Tam was not free from blame. A
dim recollection came back upon him which
sickened him, as with a throe of remorse
and rage, at his own infatuation. Somebody,
he could no longer tell whom  some
cautious old friend or sharp sighted associate
 had spoken to him of the possible
existence of prior contracts, apart from the
title-deeds, and advised a reference to them.
And he had thought the friend timid, and
the associate picking a hole in Tarn's coat.
For he, too, had been eager and set on his
purchase. He had derided the idea of any
obstacle. He had insisted that he knew all
about Drysdale Haugh and the Mackintosh,
and that in the face of such intimate
acquaintance further trouble and expense

were uncalled for. His penny-saving thrift,
on which he had prided himself all his
life, had come in and forbidden him to expend
a few pounds in order to prevent the
risk of thousands, the danger of a life's
efforts and ambitions being' frustrated at
the eleventh hour.

462

THE SUSPICION BECOMES A CERTAINTY.

AuLD Tam had not the right to a single one
of the advantages on which he had prided
himself. Nothing was his  neither lands
nor works, neither old farmhouse nor
modern mansion, nor office in Glasgow  at
least, if any portion of what he had called
his remained to him, the claim was so
entangled, and so met and barred by other
claims, that he could not unravel it.

The Mackinnons had sold, without a
riofht, land and works. Tam had bought
equally without a warrant. He would be
entitled to his purchase-money back again,
he supposed, if there was a grain of justice
in men's laws; but that would be little in

:)

comparison to the rents and shares of profits
he might be called on to refund, and the
sums of money he had expended on buildings
and improvements which he had made
on another man's property without his consent,
for which there was no reason that he
should have compensation. If the miserable
discovery had been made in other circumstances,
there was just a chance that
he might have surmounted it. He might
have compounded for wrong done  without
any evil intention on his part  in which as
it had happened he had been the most
cruelly wronged, and continued his business
an impoverished but not a ruined man. It
was otherwise this year, when, as he had
known, he had need of not only all his available
capital, but his unimpaired credit, to
carry him through the pressure occasioned
by extravagant outlay and over-trading,
when there were dropping shots of failures
on every side, like minute-guns at sea,
gathering gloom on the Exchange, a glutted
market, forced sales, short hours, improvident

work-people beginning to starve without
the apology of a strike, stinted indulgences
forbidden pleasures, haggard
faces, heavy hearts, care and doubt, and
dread for v/hat was comines on all hands.

This was the reverse side of that splendid
prosperity of which in its intoxication men
had said, raving, that it would never come to
an end ; and Tarn, who had seen both sides
more than once before, had raved like the rest
with the least excuse, because he had boasted
he had known all the turns of trade. He had
been as blind and besotted as any tyro in
commerce  blinder at the last than his own
son Tarn, who was new to the business. He
had over-speculated and risked the most
daring ventures, and he would have wanted
all the help of a secure position and untrammelled
reserves of power to bring the
past year's undertakings to a successful
issue  to prevent them, like Pharaoh's lean
cattle, swallowing up their well - threshed
brethren  nay, so to control and compel
them as to make them the instruments of

the further building up of his fortunes, in
spite of formidable odds, and of the extension
and preservation of his name for deep
sagacity and broadly-calculated enterprise.

Auld Tam had still hoped this with a
hiofh heart till his conversation with Mr.
Greco' in his office. What had been a
faintly appalling suspicion then, was now
a crushing reality ; and he knew that to
confess it publicly, as he was bound to do,
and make restitution of what he had unawares
acquired without the title to do so,
meant simply, under present circumstances,
dire ruin, without the hope of retrieving his
losses. He could hardly even escape moral
blame. Men might indeed free him from
having been knowingly a party to the illegal
transfer of Drysdale Haugh, which had rebounded
so heavily on his own head ; but
they would not fail to accuse him of over-confidence
and carelessness, and as  give a
dog a bad name and hang him,' so they
would count as little less than criminal the
magnitude of those far-afield speculations

which had, as it proved, been raised on a
foundation of sand, and not of rock. It
would not matter  for the world never
stopped to make such reservations  that
he had been as ignorant of the instability
of his foundation when he incurred these
obligations, as the humblest bleacher or
printer in his employment. Men would
look at the whole story as giving the lie to
the testimony by which they had united in
calling him a prince and a ruler in trade,
and had learned to put unbounded faith
in his probity, his judgment, his discretion.

Tarn Drysdale would be ruined without
remedy, and he would ruin many another
in his fall  from large firms, linked inseparably
with his, to small contractors who
had been his early comrades, like Willie
Coates.

Auld Tam grew dizzy as he contemplated
the catastrophe, and tried to take in all the
consequences. Then he said he would sleep
upon it, since it was a thing that no man
could take action upon at a moment's

notice. He replaced the papers in his
desk, dropping them as if the fingers
which could no longer retain them were
palsied, locked them up, unfastened his
room door, and walked out, feeling for the
first time in his life that he had been up too
early, had been in Glasgow at work all day,
and was not so young as he had been. He
said as much when he joined his family in
the drawing-room ; and his Eppie, glancing
up quickly in his face, noticed, with a sharp
pain, that her Tam looked ten years older
since morning. His comely, fresh-coloured
face was grey and lined, his eyes seemed
sunken, the very carriage of his head was
altered. Could it be the besfinninof of a
sudden  breaking-up ' of his manly frame ?
She had heard of such unexpected, untimely
breaking-up, specially in men of active
habits, who had done as great things for
themselves and their families as Tam Drysdale
had done. It would break her heart
for his sake ; but if he were to become
prematurely aged and infirm, if Awaiting

upon him on her * handel knees if nursing
him every hour of the twenty-four, if
studying every sick man's idle peevish
fancy could solace him, he should have the
solace  she would do it for her goodman,
the lover of her youth, the father of her
bairns, with her last breath, and it would
be the greatest comfort left to her.

After auld Tam's admission of fatigue, it
was natural that he should sit and rest in
his chair, while young Eppie sang softly to
him. Her mother wished she had not
chosen * The Land o' the Leal ' for her first
song ; indeed, Tam himself interposed as if
he could not bear it, saying,

Not that, bairn ; can you not give us
something less downe [sad] V

But when Eppie gave him * Tak' your
auld cloak about you,' he failed to beat
time to the tune.

Tam supped composedly, to all outward
appearance, but privately he felt as if he
were swallowing, not to say borrowed, but
stolen food, every morsel of which threatened

to choke him. He lay awake during
the long night, hearing every hour strike on
the numerous clocks and timepiece which
were no longer his any more than the bed
he was stretched upon. It had been a whim
of his to furnish every room with a timepiece,
and to make it his business to see
that the time in each case was told accurately.
Now, every clock of them all combined
to say that his days at Drysdale Hall
were numbered, that still briefer was the
space before he must tell his wife and
children the great reverse which had befallen
them. He had seemed sufficient for
them in past years, but after all he had
made a mess of both his own life and theirs.
He had brought them up for a station which
they were not called upon to fill ; he had
disqualified them from being ordinary working
men and women, and he greatly feared
that he could do little or nothing to atone for
the injury he had inflicted where he had
meant to confer the greatest benefit. He
had been forgetful in his prosperity that he

was growing more than middle-aged, and
all these tokens of time in the rooms, which
were beatings and ticking and striking
around him, seemed only there to remind
him that the afternoon shadows had fallen
across his path, and that though he would
gladly employ what was left of it in toiling
to make another business, and earn a fresh
fortune for his children to spend, soon little
more than the evening: of life would remain
to him. He could not bring back the past
and live again the young, strong life, in
which hardship and self-denial and work
which might have tried a horse were burdens
easy to carry, in the light of the confidence
which had never been dashed and the
hope that had known no disappointment.

All the time Eppie was lying  waukrife '
(wakeful) by his side, not stating an inch,
hardly daring to breathe, in case she should
waft away that downj- sleep of which she
was persuaded her husband stood greatly
in need. She only took it upon her to
remonstrate  in vain, though she was at

the same time slightly reassured by his
making the exertion and by the determination
with which he persisted in it  when
he would rise betimes, even earlier than
his usual hour.

It was a fine September morning, and
Tam strolled out upon the terrace, before
breakfast, and looked about him. Yonder
lay his bleach-fields, with the dew glittering
upon the whiteness, into which all the rainbow
colours were merged at this distance.
The inhabitants of the thriving village, the
roofs of which were just visible beyond the
tree-tops of Barley Kiggs, were dependent
upon these fields and the adjoining works
for their daily bread. How would it fare
with them when his rule was at an end ?
Would the long 'officier lad' Mackintosh
with the drawling tonsure and the indifferent
manner, into whose hands Drysdale
Haugh must fall, make anything of it  
make more of it than his father had made?
"What chance was there % Not the most
distant.

What retribution was this that had come
upon him, Tam Drysdale ? He had never
willingly wronged a Mackinnon of them ;
for that matter he had never, with his knowledge
and by his consent, injured any human
being. He had sought all his life to help
his neighbours as he had helped himself
He had exerted himself to save the old
Miss Mackinnons from starvation, which
their precious grand-nephew had been too
.supercilious a puppy so much as to conceive
of, and present a sufficient shield between
the women who had reared him and a beggar's
death. Auld Tam had interposed a
second time to deliver the ladies from the
consequences of their trespass against the
law of the land, and had striven his
hardest to rescue them, else they might
have been transported beyond the seas at
this day, grey-headed gentlewomen though
they were, without their cipher of a gentleman
nephew being able to help it.

And what had been Tam Drysdale's
reward ? That he had planned and laboured

and built and improved, for Guy Mackiu-
non's son to enter upon Tarn's labours, and
reap the fruits of the harvest his father had
wasted and sold for his ease and pleasure  
as much as ever Esau had sold his birthright
for a mess of pottage. Shall not the
Judge of all the earth do right ? Yet He
had allowed the legality of Esau's deed,
while He was going to annul Gavin 's.
The God of Bethel had upheld
Jacob after he had sought to clinch his
bargain by a barefaced deception, practised
on a blind old man  his own father ; but
He would forsake Tarn Drysdale. Tarn
was at the bottom of his heart a sincerely
religious man ; but, as often happens, in the
great trial of his life his faith was assailed
by such violent gusts of doubt and despair
as threatened to tear the plant up by the
roots, and leave it to wither and be burnt
like any worthless weed of accident and
habit.

Near at hand the early morning sun was
glinting on the ivy, shrouding the bit of

the building which had belonged to the
old farmhouse  the dwellings of that earlier
Drysdale against whom Tarn had hitherto
borne no grudge for transferring his property
through Beenie Pryde and Maggie
Craig to the Mackinnons. Tam had considered
that the man had a riofht to do what
he liked with his own, and that Tam's unfortunate
father had justly forfeited any
claim of kinship. On the whole. Tam had
preferred that he should win back what
had belonged to his progenitors by his
individual industry and ability, so that it
might be doubly his. But now, he felt as
if his father's cousin had been in a conspiracy
to betray him to the Mackinnons, to
enable them not only to get their own out
of him, but to serve themselves for long
years after he had ceased to be their servant
with his sinews and brains  to end by
robbing him of his best, under no plea except
that he had taken what they had not
prized, what they had actually tendered for
his acceptance, without the right to do so.

On this side of the terrace were the
offices and gardens on which their master
had bestowed such pains, where his beasts
were lodged like Christians, and his flowers
were the finest in the west-country  for
Eneas Mackinnon to boast of. Great
beds of gorgeous autumn dallas, and tall
hollyhocks, untouched as yet by frost, had
been so arranged that the gazer from the
terrace could catch a glimpse of their
wealth of size and colour, and Tam, watkins
there only yesterday morning, had wondered
if the hanging gardens of Damascus had
held anything more stately and splendid.

As auld Tam looked, young Eppie came
tripping out in her fresh morning-gown,
calling upon her father to praise her for
her early rising, asking if he would not go
with her to the orchid-house, which he had
not seen since Neil had done stocking it ;
and did he know Neil said the dwarf
apricot and peach trees, which he had kept
back and was now to put under glass, would
provide the table with peaches and apricots

VOL. III. 47

all the winter, and that the silver sand
and peat mould had answered so well with
the rhododendrons, next spring the heads
would be as big as cabbages. Did he think
it could be true that he would beat Lady
Semple and everybody at the next years
flower-shows ?

Auld Tarn was restless to set off to
Glasgow to his office, though he had a
sense beforehand that there, as here, not
only would the glory be departed, he would
look at everything with the eyes of a
doomed man. He would feel like the dying
man on whom the irrevocable sentence has
passed, that within a period longer or
shorter, measured in this instance by a
refinement of torture with his own hand,
he must go forth and be no longer seen,
while the place which had known him,
where he had been happy and honoured,
would know him no more.

Tam wondered, as he drove through the
streets, who would miss him, and for how
long they would speak of his rise and fall.

as he had heard other histories spoken of,
half as an encouragement, half as a warning.
He passed into his office, the brass
plate on the door bearing ' Messrs. Thomas
Drysdale & Son  still showing the last two
Avoids freshly cut in the metal. He received
the usual respectful greetings as if
he were in some sort a stranger there already,
though nobody else knew it  as if
the greetings, were not intended for him,
but for another person, so that there was a
species of mockery in his accepting them.

Still, auld Tam was strong enough to
make no sign which anyone save a womanlike
Eppie the elder, with the intuition of
love and the nearness to the object of her
scrutiny which she commanded, could have
detected. Even young Tam was not aware
that there was anything amiss with his
father. More than once, as the hours
passed by, the younger man admired the
acuteness of perception and the grasp both
of present details and future results which
the head of the firm showed in negotiating

472

sundry extensive transactions that came in
the course of the clay's work. For, fairly
launched in the full swing of his engagements,
Tarn rid himself of every paralyzing
abstraction that had seized hold of him,
and was, if anything, more alert and
earnest in business than ever, as if the
prosperity of Drysdale and Son depended
upon how he discharged his customary
duties.

According to what was no infrequent
occurrence in auld Tam's experience, appeals
were made to him on behalf of others
engaged in the same business, and where
the interests of trade in general and of
some of the municipal affairs of the city
were concerned. He was asked to pronounce
on the dealings of strangers, to
give his opinion on clashing theories ; he
was invited to take an active part in one
of the political questions which was reckoned
of vital moment to the welfare of his
townsmen, and never had the decisions,
which were listened to with such flattering

attention, struck the hearers as shrewder,
sounder, more unbiased, more worthy of
the man.

That day's programme was a sample of
many such programmes, for still auld Tam
put off taking action on the discovery he
had made. As he had said to himself that
it was not a step to take on the spur of the
moment, he went on to say it was not a .
step to take on a week or a month's notice.
A man must have time to set his house in
order  such a great house as Tam had
reared and was about to pull down  to
think and plan if nothing could be done
to render the overthrow less complete, to
seek the first legal advice in the country,
as Tam had been prone to do in matters of
much less moment, and ascertain if there
were no honourable way out of the labyrinth.
Yet all the time Tam sickened at
the thought of law and lawyers, and he
did not believe that there could be any
loophole for escape. His common-sense,
stimulated by the hints Mr. Greig had

given him, convinced the proprietor of
Drysdale Haugh that marriage contracts,
about which he had thought so Httle, must
be made for the most part in the interest
of the children of the contracting parties,
to preserve to them their inheritance, and
that no tampering with such legal obligations
could be permitted.

Thus, though Tarn told himself that he
was waiting to consult the foremost lawyers,
the consultation too was deferred until all
at once he began to ask himself, with a
certain fierceness in the question, whether
he were called upon to sacrifice himself
and all he held dear. His Eppie, young
Tam, and the rest ; his earnings, his reputation,
his trade ;  these sheep ' over at
the works, who would suffer in a hundred
ways from being consigned to incapable
hands  all to undo the consequences of a
negligence to which Tam could not deny
that he had been a party, but with regard
to which he had certainly been the least
guilty. If he obeyed the dictates of a

scrupulous conscience, a gross injustice
would be committed. The child of the
principal offender, who could never have
missed what he had never possessed or
dreamt of possessing, and would not know
what to do with if it were laid at his feet,
would reap a huge profit from the wrong
done by his father and mother against him
and his neighbour.

After Tarn had landed himself in this
moral quagmire, a new torment beset him.
He was haunted by the presence of Sandy
Macnab, the dog-man at Semple Barns.
Cro where Tam liked, in the streets of
Glasgow, on the country roads near Drysdale
Hall and Semple Barns, Sandy
Macnab was constantly turning up promiscuously
very much in the fashion of a
fatality. Of course Tam, in his distempered
frame of mind, was liable to exaggerate
the accident ; nevertheless it existed.
Naturally the sight of Sandy, with the
recollections it conjured up, was not from
the first agreeable to Tam. As time progressed,

and the workings of his mind had
reached a certain stage, they began, in
spite of him, to present the strapping,
easy-minded, thick-skinned Highlander in
the light of an accomplice forced upon
Tarn's notice. Before lonof- the merest
glimpse of the muscular figure, with the
erect, almost martial, gait and elastic step
the swarthy complexion, the roving eye
the fluttering tartans, became perfectly detestable
to the person who had once been
full of a fine serenity, but was fast growing
fidgety, testy, and disposed to consider
himself impertinently intruded upon.

Rather inexplicably, Sandy, who could
not be depended upon for fine feelings, had
shown, to begin with, considerable sympathy
with auld Tam's aversion to encountering
him. Sandy, too, had given
signs of trouble at the persistent luck by
which he came across the master of Drysdale
Hall in these recent days. It boded
no good to either  according to the Highlander
s superstitious finches. To be always

running up against a gentleman was a
token that you and he had something more
than either of you guessed, perhaps, to do
with each other  something in common to
answer for, it might be ; and if so, that retribution
was already dogging your steps.

So Sandy also had practised looking another
way and making a pretence of not
seeing' his master's friend. But this becoming
shyness and reserve had not lasted
for any length of time. After a short interval
Sandy Macnab rather sought to
attract Tam's attention, and made various
overtures to speak with him  not without
a hateful mysteriousness that defeated its
object. Tarn resisted indignantly. He
was not sunk to this, that he should have
Sandy Macnab for his confidant, and live
at his mercy. Far better let the man tell
the little he knew in whatever quarter he
liked, and anticipate the announcement
which auld Tam was never sure that he
might not make any day. He only questioned
its righteousness with a sore questioning,

and waited till he could satisfy
himself of its propriety ; but he would take
no blackguard precautions to conceal the
contract which had come by no act of his
into his hands, which he might have de-destroyed
the moment he understood its
real bearing, and nobody been any wiser.
It would have been time enough then to
make terms with a groom and dog-man,
a forward, swaggering hanger-on of the
gentry ; a thick-sculled whelp like Sandy
Macnab. But instead, the paper lay, safe
and tampered with, in the desk in Tam's
business-room, ready for him to produce
any day, and to pass on, as he had meant
on receiving it, to the officier lad .'


After the casual encounters had come to
have the air of Sandy Macnab's being
regularly on the outlook for Tarn, though
the Highlander's general deportment was
not so much insolently aggressive as shamefacedly
anxious, and as if he had something
on his mind to impart ; and after the

man had advanced more than once with a
scrape of a bow and an apologetic ' Gude-day
to you, Mr. Drysdale, if you please,

sir ' and Tarn had brushed past with a

short nod, or an answering ' Gude-day to
you, Macnab  another time, I'm engaged,'
delivered unwillingly and briefly, the interruption
became more serious. Sandy
would not be so easily dismissed ; he stood
his ground and persistently pressed for a
hearing. ' I maun have a word wi' you, Mr.
Drysdale ; I'll not keep you a moment.'

You can have no word with me,' forbade
Tarn, sternly and rudely. * Man, do
you not see I'm about my proper business V
(the colloquy was in a street in Glasgow) ;
'I'm not to be stopped by a carle like you.'

It was the first time that auld Tam had
exhibited his ascent in the social scale by
employing an opprobrious term and behaving
with arrogance to a social inferior.
He had been wont to show himself markedly
civil, even gentle, towards the class
to which he had formerly belonged. He

was losing his manners as well as his tranquillity
in his tribulation.

But it's about Tory, sir,' Sandy explained
hurriedly, in an impressive undertone.


What have I to do with your Tories V
protested Tam, in a sudden, unreasoning
fury. ' He may gang to the devil if he
likes, and you too ; it is no business of mine.
You know you did me out of a sum of
money because a daft caird [mad tramp]
in the country you hail from had a parcel
of stolen auld papers  which were nothing
to me  that he had travelled sooth with,
expecting me, or some other full with
money in his pockets, to buy them. That
I was so far left to myself' is no warrant
for you to waylay me in the open street
and pester me about a rogue and vagabond.
If he had gotten his deserts I
should have handed him over to the police,
with you in his company. Stand out of
my road, sir, or I'll speak to Sir Jeames
about this nuisance.'

Sandy Macnab gave way instantly, looking
not so much indians as confounded,
which he well might be.

Is the honest man in a frenzy V he
asked himself. ' Sir Jeames, when he has
risen aff his wrongs side, is nothings to him.
Yet I've aye heard that this bleacher
billie [fellow] was a douce chief and easy
to deal with. I did not find him so
ill to get on wi' when I gave him a ca' at
his place : no, though pair Tory was mast
rampageous, and the gentleman was a
thocht hard upon me for mastering the
crater. Where would he have been without
me ? I'm thinking I've stood his friend
from first to last, though I may have put
my fit into the business this time. Is't
silver that makes the gentleman  auld Tanii
as they ca' him  neither to haud nor to
bind when his centered [crossed], or is it
because he cam' out of the gutter? I'm
thinking it maun be the last, for his son,
that is his partner and maun have the
pouch [purse] in his turn, is a weevil

enough spoken lad. He will have learned
the manners of gentlemen, and not care to
rage like a bull of Bashan when there is
no occasion for it. If there had been
cause the thing would have been different.
A man can forgive a round of curses when
there is sufficient provocation. It's a faut
that the highest in the land may fa' into
without prejudice. But just because he
was asked with a' respect to stand still and
lend an ear, it is preposterous. Weel, I've
dune my best to make a clean priest and
quiet Bawby Sed's wake mind, but a wilful'
man maun have his way, and if ill come of
it the wite's [blame's] none of mine.'

Sandy Macnab ceased from that day to
thrust himself on Tam's notice or to crave
speech with him ; but the incident had
made a painful impression, which rankled
in Tam's memory. Among all the misery
of this time he could not shake off the apprehension
that the annoyance would repeat
itself  that it had a motive which he
had yet to fathom.

IN THE BALANCE.

The world went on much the same this
autumn, though everything under the sun
was altered to Tarn Drysdale, as he knew.
The slight sprinkling of grey, which had
been all that had appeared formerly in his
brown hair, was on the road to become a
heavy powdering of white.

A wistful light had crept into the happy
eyes of the elder Eppie, which were now
so often resting, as she would have said,
scowling [by stealth] on her husband. Her
rampant prosperity was subdued by a hidden
sorrow. Something was wrong with her
Tarn which she could not divine ; she only
knew that he did not come to her for consolation;

so she supposed the evil, whatever
it might be, was beyond her power of alleviation,
and she was silently sorry, with
a meek devoted woman's scorning, ungrudging
pity.

Mrs. Drysdale was not half so fine or
nearly so ridiculous as she had been.
What did she care for finery when there
was something amiss v/ith Tarn ? And as
she ceased to pay heed to the good things
of her position, and the suitable deportment
they called for from her, her vulgarity
was toned down, and she lost much
of her self-consciousness and superficial
affectation. A new charm was added to
her other attractions. Something like the
dawning of dignity  the dignity of indifference
to the accidents of circumstance, and
of a soul occupied by higher things  began
to show itself in Eppie. But these were
subtle signs, and they were the sole indication
that anything had happened ; though
they might be indirectly felt, they were not
distinctly recognised.

Drysdale Hall was, to all outward appearance,
the same as it had ever been
since it was created by its present owner ;
and since young Tarn and Clary had grownup,
bringing with them fresh life and movement
 animated, full of the thrills and
throbs of passion in natures endowed with
the strength and ardour of their early
prime, even while it was most divergent
and discordant where the general current
was concerned. And now a new figure in
the second generation  young Eppie, in
her simplicity and sweetness, was hovering
on the threshold of that flight into the
world which boys and girls must take
sooner or later.

As the tides obey the moon, so do the
lower strata of society answer to the higher,
though the distance between them is more
or less great, and there are no conspicuous
points of union. Because Parliament is
up, and London deserted by the upper ten
thousand in September, so those who are
not in Parliament, and have nobody con-vol.

III. 48

netted with them affected by its sitting
and rising, choose that season when the
daylight is beginning to shorten and the
moderate heat to cool, when wild flowers
are mostly gone and birds have ceased to
sing, for their annual holiday and their
sojourn in the country. Rural resorts
which have no call to answer to the necessities
of legislators become inundated with
temporary residents who have not even the
excuse of being bannisters [binders of corn],
or thinkers [thatchers] of stacks, or peripatetic
owners of thrashing-machines, and
are callous to all the delights of June
with her long days and broomy braes, and
July with her meridian heat, her bluebells
by the wayside, and her dog-roses in the
hedgerows. But there is one glory gilding
the fall of the year, that exists alike for
gentle and simple of the more combative
sex. It is not compelled by the breaking
of Parliament, the partial closing of
Government offices, the vacations of the
law courts, though it does much in its turn

to compel these pauses in the business of
the country. The name of this potent
charmer is ' Sport,' which reigns from the
12 th of August to the last hunt of the
advancing spring. The enchantress is
rampant in her sway when the moors, the
turnip-fields, the coverts, are possessed by
an army of men in shooting-jackets, with
staghounds and pointers for their allies,
and the air is full of the bang of small
artillery.

St. Mungo's City is not an exception to
the rest of the world, in the desire to kill
the beautiful wild creatures of the hills and
the fields. After Glasgow has poured her
swarms * down the water in early summer,
she sends fresh swarms of the wealthier
grades to render the heather and the stubble
alive with more than deer and grouse, hares
and pheasants. Autumn always brought a
pleasant excitement of company and gaiety
to Drysdale Hall, with crowded breakfast-tables,
meetings at the scene of action,
open-air luncheons, frequent guests to

482

dinner, little dances when there were
enough young people in the house. Doubtless
the fashion was borrowed from Semple
Barns, where members of Parliament on
the wing did alight on occasion, and
refresh their nervous systems, exhausted
by services to the nation, with tramping
through briars and brambles, leaping over
ditches, and bringing down partridges,

Auld Tam commanded a little good
shooting on his property, and he rented a
moor within two hours' journey by railway,
on which active men, accustomed both to
business and hunting hours, starting with
the lark and reaching' their destination
before the dew was dry on the red ling,
could traverse the ground, fill creditable
baofs, and be back to dinner several times
a week, from the 12th to the 1st, when
prey nearer home afforded the coveted
pursuit without the sacrifice of a railway
journey.

Tam Drysdale hardly took his gun in his
hand this season, but in the other direction

young Tarn allowed himself greater indulgence
in the natural propensity of the biped
that can pull a trigger. The only eccentricity
he displayed was that he was quick
to share moor and shooting with au} of his
managers who had taken out licenses, and
that the son kept up the father's practice
in the disposal of the spoil of his gun. Instead
of sending the game to fetch a fair
23rice in the Glasgow poultry-shops, he despatched
what did not find its way to the
Drysdale Hall larder, to Dr. Peter Murray
for distribution among his patients, or to the
appreciative wives and families of bleachers
and dyers who would otherwise have had
little chance of tasting hare or pheasant
that was honestly come by.

Young Tam was not left to cope with
the fowls of the air and the hares and the
rabbits of the pasture single-handed, save
for his subordinates or his Glasgow acquaintance
who could exchange a shooting
with him. Eneas Mackinnon, who was
understood to be indebted to his friends

for such sport as he got, came over with
Dick Semple whenever they where not
better employed elsewhere.

A far more brilliant ally arrived in good
time. Sir Hugo Willoughby had kept his
word. He had reappeared just when he
had said he would, and was making himself
more popular than ever by declining to
herd with his kind and by casting in his
lot with the young Glasgow men. In fact,
he kept hovering in the immediate vicinity
of St. Mungo's City, with its roar of traffic,
its smoky abominations, its boisterous
superfluity and ostentation. He defied Guy
Horsburgh,  ho began to look uneasy in
the office of bear-leader, which he had
taken upon himself, to wile him, Sir
Hugo, to any distance  to induce him to
take a yachting voyage to Iceland or a
walking tour in Ross or Sutherland  to try
a bout of deer-stalking in any of the deer
forests, the tenants of which Were friends
of his. He would not even go down with
Guy to that Court in Lincolnshire which

he had often proposed to show to his
friend, where Lady Willoughby sat lonely
in her castle hall, awaiting her truant son
in vain, and where preserves choke-full of
all the lowland game which could satisfy
the heart of a man or the muzzle of a gun
were wasting their sweetness on the desert
air, and calling loudly for an absent, inconsiderate
squire to diminish the embarrass
des richesses, else he would have a host of
farmers, his natural allies, rising up in
open rebellion against him. Not above a
certain radius of miles would Sir Hugo
bucer from Glasgow  Glasgow in August
and September, not Glasgow down-theater,
fresh with sea and mountain breezes,
but Glasgow inland, with her thick carpet
of grimy dust and her black pall of filthy
smoke  Glasgow squalid, careworn, miserable,
when the depression of trade caused
the fitful rattle of the machinery to sound
eerie and hollow as when slaves shake
their chains, and the sweat of men's brows
began to gather in the big drops of despair.

There was nothing more terrible to fear
save the silence of death, when a great
strike testifies to the revolt of one class
and the rending asunder of two.

It might have been that young Sir
Hugo was so true a philosopher and so
promising a patriot that he was bent on
becoming acquainted with all shades of life
in one of the great trade centres which he
had elected to study. But so far as this
went, Sir Hugo turned his back on the
city and was engrossed with the wonders
of his own young existence. At this time
he neither knew nor cared much for its
sins and sorrows, cherishing a sanguine
hope that they would all cure themselves
somehow, and be mended by an alchemy
with which he had nothing to do. It was
the neighbourhood of Glasgow, and not
Glasgow itself, to which he was nailed.
The Horsburghs had their country-house
not far from Drysdale Hall, and though
it was the most commonplace of modern
dwellings, he was content with it.

Be it said also that Sir Hugo had returned
to his first love  to the pursuit of
the Cinderella who had fled from him in
the Drysdale Hall picture-gallery, the
young thing, just come frae her mammy,'
who had sung to him in the Drysdale
Hall drawing-room. He had called Thole
Murray charming, but he had forgotten
her wit long before he saw her face again.
It was the recollection of young Eppie's
guileless sweetness, combined with her
spring-time loveliness, which he called
divine, that had taken fast hold of his
mind.

Sir Hugo could not display these inclinations
without causing a flutter of marvel
and speculation ; but first when he came
back auld Tam took no further notice of
the young man, about whom he had made
such a fuss at Easter, than if he had been
an ordinary mortal. It seemed as if a
benumbing power was at work on the
master of Drysdale Hall. He became
cold and passive to what would formerly

have roused him to hot and strong approbation
or opposition. He made no more
sign of displeasure at the continued presence
of Eneas Mackinnon at Drysdale
Hall, than of pleasure at the pertinacity
with which Sir Hugo Willoughby seized
every opportunity of renewing his visits.
Not the lifting of a finger, the flicker of an
eyelid, the raising of the voice, uttered an
imperative protest when young Tarn
showed again his exclusive preference for
Barley Riggs among the houses of his
acquaintance, and, under pretext of watching
some chemical experiments conducted
by Dr. Peter in his laboratory", spent three
evenings of the week there.

It was as if a dull indifference was
settling down on auld Tam  a strange
insensibility to what had been wont to
affect him in the liveliest manner. His
wife, who but for him would have been at
the height of a mother's mingled pride and
pain, quivering with excitement like the
youngest hero or heroine among them.

whose fortune was hanging in the balance,
grew more and more puzzled, chilled,
frightened, by Tarn's want of sympathy,
even of angry interest, in the affairs of his
children at what looked like a turning-point
in their destiny.

Clara, who had braced herself for a
contest  violent while it lasted  had her
whole ideas upset by finding that there
was apparently to be no altercation  she
was to be let alone to go her own ways.
It was not an inspiriting change to a
woman of her temperament, and she was
the next thing to piqued by it. If she
had cared only for asserting her will, and
had not been thoroughly honest, with a
capacity for steadfastness where her affections
were placed, she might have been
driven to give up Eneas Mackinnon.

As for Eneas, in spite of all the encouragement
that a young proud woman
could give him, he had been tempted to
hang back, in an agony of mortified self-respect,
sensitiveness and shame, from

the inevitable explanation and the almost
equally inevitable accusation of presumption
and unworthy motives on his part, which
the announcement to auld Tam would call
forth. Eneas, too, was unbounded, and
in some degree overwhelmed by the
amnesty that was granted to him. Was
he to go on shooting Tam Drysdale's
partridges on the land which had belonged
to Eneas's mother, eating auld Tam's
dinners  the usual end to the day's shootings
 making love to his beautiful capable
daughter, with her free consent, under her
father's very nose, or was Eneas to fail
Claribel and withdraw at the last moment,
vanquished by the strange trust put in
him ?

Young Tam was lovelier in his behaviour.
He acted as if he did not see that his father
had any right to dispose of his son's spare
time or modify his taste for this or that
company. He made no bones of going
over to Barley Riggs. He did not condescend
to the smallest concealment. He

had even the coolness to borrow his father's
lantern on a dark rainy night, looking auld
Tarn in the face as the son proffered the
request, telling the owner where the light
was to guide the willing feet that scouted
a carriage, and were ready to trudge
through wind and rain to reach their goal.

Tak' the lantern, laddie. You'll find it
in the harness-room,' said Tarn gruffly, but
without boiling over, without even wincing,
though he let his head drop a little on his
breast.

Was nothing else worth caring for so
long as that thing hung over his head ?
Might his children all come and go  they
for whom he had striven, who were as the
apple of his eye, whom not so long ago he
would fain have curbed and bent to force
them into other channels than those they
had formed for themselves, for the lad and
lass's good ? Could they do as they liked
for anything their father cared, he was so
hopeless and heartless for them, for himself,
for the whole world ?

Dr. Peter, in wholesome unconsciousness,
was as blind as ever ; and all that
Thole Murray did was to laugh at young
Tarn till the tears came into her own eyes,
to twit him with his opinions and performances,
to shut herself up with her patterns,
pets, and books, and excuse herself from
coming to see the retorts, disappointing
both of the operators  to keep away from
Drysdale Hall and every other place where
she was likely to encounter the young
man.

But Thole was beginning to meet her
match. Tam the younger was fast outgrowing
that sour effervescence of greenness
and youth to which Dr. Peter had once
alluded. The junior partner in Drysdale
and Son's was losing his self-consciousness
and susceptibility. He was settling down
into calm, strong manhood, knowing what
it wanted, and not to be easily turned from
seeking to supply its wants. Young Tam
Was ceasing to mind Thole's flouts. He
had advanced so far as to smile at them 

a little grimly, perhaps, but still to smile
and go on his way without being in the
slightest degree deterred by her bearing.
He did not mean to show it, but a certain
quiet, far from unhappy masterfulness was
stealing into his looks and tones. She did
not know that she betrayed it, but a certain
humility and nervousness, which were not
altogether unhappy either, though the unacknowledged
restraint provoked and affronted
her, lurked under her most
audacious sally and sharpest repartee.

A DROWNING MAN's STRAWS.

Tt was none of the persons chiefly concerned,
but a mere looker-on, who, without
in the least understanding the case, awoke
auld Tarn from his lethargy, and gave his
troubled mind a new bias.

Lady Semple, with her natural versatility,
had long ago renounced her projects
for Claribel as the destined Lady Willoughby.
Lady Semple had, not without
reason, made up her mind instead that
Claribel Drysdale ought to marry ]mr.
Mackinnon. Her father could not really
disapprove of the poor match for his elder
daughter, else lie would not have allowed
her to come prominently forward, as she

had come, to the help of the unfortunate
old ladies. Nothing would warrant such
compromising conduct in a young lady
except an attachment, of which, indeed,
her ladyship had not been without her
suspicions at an earlier date, to be speedily
followed by the announcement of an engagement
to the grand-nephew.

Lady Semple went on to argue the
matter in all its bearings. It was a magnificent
instance of mercantile liberality and
generosity in a man whom she had always
admired and esteemed, whom she was
proud to call her friend as well as her
neighbour. It would be a splendid thing
for Dick's friend  an interposition of
Providence on his behalf and the making
of him. And it was quite a romance on
Claribel's part. Lady Semple herself was
not romantic, but when wealthy parents
countenanced romance the principal objection
to it was removed, and the most
prudent third person might follow suit
without compunction.

VOL. III. 49

Lady Semple would certainly stand by
Claribel when she was Mrs. Mackinnon,
both for the sake of Dick and his friend,
and because of her ladyship's regard for
the young lady. There would be no loss
of prestige for her, since the poorest officer's
wife would rank with the daughter of the
richest dyer and cotton-printer any day ;
and Mr. Drysdale's money would not come
amiss, though unluckily promotion was no
longer to be bought. The thinker meant
unluckily only in this instance ; she was an
advanced Liberal in politics, and had been
almost as anxious for the abolition of the
purchase system as for vote by ballot,
though she knew it would be a blow to a
number of her nephews. Dick was an
only son, and he would soon leave the
army ; he had only adopted it pour passer
le temps, and because all men were the
better of being trained to a profession 
she would say a trade, if she had her
way.

The Mackinnons  Mr. Mackinnon and

his wife  would probably continue in the
army ; but if her father settled a regular
income upon her, as a man of his sense
and kindness was sure to do, it would not
signify much although he never got beyond
the rank of a captain or major. She did
not suppose he would pass higher by merit,
though he was a thoroughly good fellow,
fit to be a General where a man's tone
rather than his talent was concerned. He
would make a good steady husband. She
had always been glad that Dick had chosen
such a safe friend. Claribel would see the
world with her husband's regiment, in
which she would be a great force ; though
it was bad form now to talk of the belle of
a regiment  all that had gone out with
promotion by purchase and idle young men
with their practical jokes, pigeon-shooting,
and regimental balls. It was out of date
even in fast novels. Officers had now their
work to do if they wished to get on like
other men, which was much better for
them. But Claribel would not be tied

492

down. She would have the opportunity
of learning at first hand a variety of things
which she, Lady Semple, had missed
mastering. She was tempted to envy hier
young friend.

What would Sir Hugo do \ Oh, Sir
Hugo had found out that for himself,
and it was the most delightful solution
possible of the difficulty. He would woo
and win young Eppie  the simplest, most
artless of little girls. She was so young,
that she could be easily trained, while her
transference to polite circles would have a
thousand times more novelty and charm
than Claribels transportation could have
had. It would be a genuine romance 
though Lady Semple was not in the least
romantic, any more than Eppie was a
beggar-maid. Still, Sir Hugo was a King
Cophetua in his way, and only the knowledge
of what a dear daughter the young
girl, who was devoted to her own good
rustic mother, would make to darling unworldly
Lady Willoughby, with her widowed

life and her devotion to her son, could fully
reconcile Lady Semple to the mesalliance.

Then Mr. and Mrs. Drysdale need not
be left alone. That Trojan of a son of
theirs  who had resisted her ladyship's
blandishments and those of the Vaughan
girls, who had given in to his father by
2:oino' into business  had become, as she
had heard, auld Tam's right hand. He
ought to bring over that independent,
original Miss Murray, the daughter of
clever, innocent Dr. Peter. She was a
girl whom Lady Semple was dying to know
better. She might be of the greatest
assistance to her ladyship in getting up her
Rational Dress Association. Thole would
prove a fair substitute for the loss of Clare
to her friend, as well as for the double
loss of Claribel and Eppie to their parents.
Having arrived at this triumphant conclusion,
Lady Semple felt so sure of her
ground that she could not imagine herself
making mischief by putting in her oar.
She first tried a series of broad hints to

Mrs. Drysdale. But Mrs. Epjie was so
engrossed with the prospect of the fulfilment
of her dreams, so distracted between
freshly awakened tenderness for Clary,
trembling exultation over young Eppie,
vexation with young Tam, and trouble
about auld Tam, that, candid woman though
she was, it seemed impossible to draw an
admission from her, as a step towards offering
her friendly congratulations.

Thus foiled. Lady Semple, in her high
satisfaction, ventured to have recourse to
an Id Tam.

It was one evening when the whole
dramatis personae of Lady Semple's genteel
comedy were together in the old-fashioned
drawing-room at Semple Barns. So most
of them had been on a previous evening,
when Tam Drysdale's eyes had been opened
to the enormity of a penniless officer of the
Mackinnon stock having rendered himself
so agreeable to Clary that he had melted
her pride and disordered her understanding,
and when her father had scowled on the

couple, and angrily told his wife that he
would not have such doings.

The summer had done Sir James good,
and he was able to meet company. He had
quite a knot of old friends  from London,
from Edinburgh (where the Court of Session
was up, like the Parliament in London), from
India, helping Dick to dispose of the birds.
Lady Semple had her neighbours and
friends to meet the greater strangers : the
Drysdales  the whole of them on this
occasion ; Dr. Peter and Thole Murray,
whom her hostess was so desirous of cultivating
; Sir Hugo Willoughby, with Guy
Horsburgh ; Eneas Mackinnon, with the
son of the house.

Lady Semple was an accomplished hostess,
but her skill was wasted this evenings
for her guests gave her little trouble ; they
arranged themselves according to their own
wishes, and hers, without an effort. The
old friends mustered round Sir James's card-table,
which he could again enjoy, enlivening
the pauses during the deals by reminiscences

of the past, extracts from their
intermediate experience, anticipations of
the next day's sport.

Hound games for young people were
exploded, but there had been an attempt
to try the last play of thought-reading,
which had only broken down because nobody
seemed to care to have his or her
thought read ; everybody seemed to be more
anxious to ascertain his or her neighbour's.

Eneas Mackinnon wanted to learn what
Claribel Drysdale was thinking as she inspected
the condition of that oddest of
sentimental souvenirs a hair album, which
Lady Semple had once set up.

Sir Hugo Willoughby desired to penetrate
what had been young Eppie's fancies as the
liquid notes of her voice, which she had been
pouring forth at the piano, near which he
was hovering, died away. A few moments
ago she had silenced the whole murmur of
sound. The great roomful of old and
young, grave and gay, married and single,
men and women of the world, and men and

women whom nothing would make worldly,
had listened breathlessly to the expression
of the simple faith of a homely, hardworking
breadwinner for some poor family :

When Jock and Jean and Janet,

Are up and gotten lear,
They'll help to mak' the bathe row,

And lighten a' our care.
Then weel may the bathe row,

And better may it speed,
And weel may the bathe row

That wins the barnes' breed.'

But surely even Eppie, with the clear
mirror of her innocent mind unruffled by
a cloud of passion, must have a conception
of the time when Jock and Jean and
Janet were not only up and had ' gotten
lear,' but entertained dreams and a life of
their own apart from the visions and the
life of the most loving of parents  when
the children were in train to fulfil the Bible
prophecy, that a man will leave father and
mother and cleave to his wife.

Young Tam sought to realize what
Thole Murray meant when she told with

such merry eloquence to Dr. Peter, in the
younger man's hearing, her determination
to set going a Hans Chronic such as she
had read of in a German book. It was to
be a Home Chronicle of which the pages
stood for the years of her life. She would
put the leading scene of the year by means
of pencil and brush on the appointed page.
For instance, her father's beings thrown by
Lady Fair when the train went across
Aytoun Brig ; or herself finding the old
hon pot in the garden, which had formed
such a delicious study of rusty-brown ever
since. Another incident might be Jeannie's
refusing the baker's man at the kitchen -
door ; because if Jeannie had said  Yes, if
you please,' the domestic economy of Barley
Kiggs would have sustained a severe shock.
Oh ! he need not think that nobody would
understand her compositions, or be the
wiser for them, because she was to write
in old characters  now her handwriting
was fairly readable in modern, so it need
not be wholly illegible in old characters 

the details of that annual great event, so
that he who ran could read and be instructed.

Would Jeannie and the baker's man bethe
only couple who were to figure in the
Barley Biggs Home Chronicle, if it ever
had a being save in Thole's busy brain ?
and must the scene always be a dismissal ?

Mrs. Drysdale also was looking across at
her husband, as if to ask him the reason
why he drew apart from the other elderly
man present, and stood with his hands
behind his back gazing, not on the card-table,
but on vacancy.

The husband and Avise did not look so
much aufait to each other's minds as they
had once looked to a comical extent, or so
inclined to refer to each other. The change
might easily be when there was such an
inroad of exciting elements into their family
life, on which it was just possible the couple
might hold different views.

Anyhow, matrimonial confidences where
not desirable in general company ; so Lady
Semple adroitly got rid of the matron by

sending Dick to pay her a little attention,
and herself tried to ' tackle ' auld Tam.
She went up to him as he moved on, until
he stood before a picture of Dick Semple
when a boy on his pony, which the critic
had contemplated a hundred times.

Lady Semple made the portrait the text
of her remarks. ' Do you see any resemblance
still, Mr. Drysdale ? Oh, these boys
and gills, how they run away from us, and
how hard it is for us fathers and mothers
to be left behind !'

 Mr. Dick is not going to run away from
you, mem.'

Tam gave the general observation an individual
application with stupid literalness.

Oh no ! not Dick  not yet awhile, I
hope,' said his mother hastily; 'though he
no looser thinks his father's word law, and
his mother's praise does not send him to
bed as happy as a king  and it will come
to that soon  that other going away from
us, and settling in life on his own account,
which seems to sunder so many ties. Yet

what would you have, Mr. Drysdale V
continued her ladyship, unconsciously
adopting the same hue of argument which
Mrs. Drysdale had formerly used ; * we
cannot stand in our children's way. We
cannot stay with them always, so why
should we seek to keep them with us ? It
is better  though it is not altogether pleasant,
is it ?  that they should leave us. But
where everybody is agreed, where everything
is more than suitable,' murmured
Lady Semple, 'where the whole arrangements
are simply charming, and there is so
much to rejoice at, to be truly thankful for
I can only wish you joy, my dear sir.'

Tam looked up amazed, uncertain whenas
if they were passing before him in a
panorama, the groups around him caught
his eye in quick succession. His glance
roamed from one to another, comprehensively,
conclusively. There was a twitch
of his eyebrows, he compressed hiS lips
and thrust his chin a little forward in his
eagerness to see what was happening. His

eyes were still a little dazzled, but they
were no longer incapable of receiving a
vivid impression. He had shaken off the
brown study which had engrossed him ; a
new idea had come to him ; he was full of
it and of how it might help him in his
strait. But he only said to Lady Semple :

Not so fast, my teddy, mem  joy is not
to be wished every day ; we keep it for
great occasions.'

But you own it is only a question of
time. Oh, I must wish you much joy,
Mr. Drysdale !' cried Lady Semple, enchanted
to find herself, as she supposed,
correct in what she had conjectured, inclined
to look upon the contemplated result
as accomplished, feeling as if she had made
all these marriages, and that each marriage
was in its own way a feat to be proud of.
But she had the discretion not to urfe Tarn
further, and to leave him to digest in peace
the meal she had provided for him.

It was a meal, under the circumstances.
Lieutenant Mackinnon and Clary I Auld

Taiii remeaiberecl what he had thought of
that connection before, but now all the
reasons against it were more than annulled.
If he gave Clary to young Mackinnon,
with the fortune that he might yet hope to
bestow, supposing that he were left to
grapple with, overcome, and outlive the
bad times, without the horrible necessity
of having to give back Drysdale Haugh
to Mackinnon, with such fines and forfeits
in addition as would have shaken the prosperity
of the best-established firm in Glasgow
 would it not compensate, not for
inadvertently depriving him of his mother's
property, which might well be forgiven,
but for the iniquity of retaining it, after he
auld Tam  knew full well it was none
of his ? What would * the officier lad '
have more than the ofirl he loved, or ouo'ht
to love, from his pretensions  and Clary
was a fine lass, ' handsome and educate,' a
lass to act for herself and him too, a boon .
to any man, far more than a match for the
stick of a lad she had set her flmcv on ?

And what would the like of young 
do with Drysdale Haurh if he got
it ? Make a mess of it, as his father had
done before him ; waste all that auld Tarn
had brought the place to ; pull down everything
that he had built up, and be glad in
the end to rid himself of the inheritance,
and sell it to some poor, ambitious chief
who could put his hand to the plough like
one whom auld Tarn had known, as Gavin
Mackinnon had sold it.

But Mackinnon and Clary were not the
only couple. There was young Tam hanging
like a bee about a flower on that ' braw,
clever, ill-fared lass A thole Murray.
Well, the Murrayss were mixed up with
the old transaction, which loomed so
largely in Tam's mind that it blotted out
every other. The Murrayss had to do with
the selling of the works to Tam Drysdale,
in spite of the marriage contract which
held them for the issue of Margaret Craig.
Tam had been hammering his brains all
these weeks, in vain, to determine how

much or how Httle the Murray s were involved,
and what he had to answer for to
them. Dr. Peter's father, Gavin 's
partner, had been concerned with
him in the sale, not of the farm, which
had belonged to Mrs. Mackinnon, but of
the buildings and plant used in the business,
and the business itself, in which he
was a partner. Could Murray's descendants
also come on Tam for their share in
the profits of the dyeing and calico-printing
since the sale ? On the other hand, could
not Tam require from the Murrayss their
proportion of the purchase-money, which
they in their turn might claim from the
Mackinnons, since the Murrayss also had
been misled in the disposal of the business ?

It was a complication of interests and
injuries which Tam could not unravel. The
strong head, which had Worked out so
many calculations without a throb, ached
with the strain. But this he seemed to
foresee clearly, that if the matter were laid
before Dr. Peter, that upright and uncommon.

III. 50

promising soul would never rest till he had
sifted it to the bottom, and apportioned to
every roan his due, though in the process
a great business might be frittered away,
and the capital which the present crisis in
trade ought to have appropriated to itself
would only be rescued from the wreck, to
be darted into fractions of which nobody
would be the better except a set of lawyers.
Dr. Peter would count any loss in the name
of strict integrity well lost.

But if young Tam were 'yoked' with
Thole Murray, might not that flea be left
to stick in the Avail, without any further
qualms of conscience ? A thole's promotion
to be the wife of as fine a fellow as
ever lived, the future head of a great business,
would far outweigh any debatable
advantage the Murrayss might gain  not
that Tam imagined Dr. Peter greedy of an
advantage  by joining with young 
in compelling Tam to make restitution.
And Dr. Peter was a man and a
father  his lassie's welfare must be something,

must be a great deal to him ; if it
would not altogether shut his truth-speaking
mouth, it must render him more lenient,
more manageable, should the real state of
the case ever come to lioht.

Then the marriage would make Tarn's
lad happy, would atone to him for the loss
of his father ; for it was one of the most
bitter drops infused into auld Tam's ful
cup, in the tremendous change which had
suddenly darkened the broad sunshine of
his prosperity, and rendered all his good
things worthless to him, to be forced to
comprehend that, having found his son, it
was only to lose him again. There had
been till recently many business confidences
between them, in which auld Tarn had
been proud to think that his hands were
clean, and that he had not to soil young
Tam's by the contact. He had never
dabbled in business ruses which could not
bear repetition to uncorrupted ears. But
here was an affair which could not stand
being looked into, which must remain a

502

secret, and rise up as a barrier between the
father and his son for the term of their
lives. Very likely, if the story chanced to
be approached  and what secret was not
approached sooner or later \  it would demand
more sacrifices from him of deliberate,
habitual deception and brazen falsehood
to maintain the central he. How
could he look young Tarn in the face if it
were so, when the father had beoain already
in his misery to skulk away from
one of the creatures he loved best in the
world ? And he had a full-hearted, despairing
conviction that young Tam, hot-headed
as he had been, independent as he was,
would miss his father's friendship, little
worth as it was  would want a perfect
mate in a wife, the desire of his heart, to
make up to him for the snapping of the
primitive tie which, when it is of true
metal, is of the consistency of iron.

Last of all, there was Tam Dryad ale's
youngest child, his bonnie bairn Eppie,
with the splendid prospect of marrying

Sir Hugo Willoughby, and being removed
far beyond the range of commercial storms,
safely landed among the aristocracy, in the
august shadow of the Throne itself, as Tarn
dreamed. If he could only hold out till
that achievement was accomplished, till
little Eppie's grand fortune was secured,
and her mother left to her care, for young
Eppie would never see her mother suffer,
then he could be content to die  not in
peace  this was not a question of peace,
but stubborn and silent. For what had
auld Tam done that he should demolish
his name and fame and ruin his children
to enrich Gavin Mackinnon's son ? But
he would enrich Gavin Mackinnon's son,
and what more could be required of him \

AULD TAM * FEY.'

AuLD Tam came out of his shell in a fever
of forced spirits, with a restless desire to
be doiiiGf something:. It looked like a boisterous,
nearly wild gaiety, which caused
his friends to stare and almost to stand
aghast. Tam would again get up extravagant
entertainments for Sir Hugo, who
had by this time made himself so much at
home at Dr3sdale Hall, that it was a bore
to him to be treated like a comparative
stranger, and ranked still as a guest.

But Tam would have entertained the
whole world in his present frame of mind ;
anything was sufficient for an excuse to
bring people together, to establish general

good-fellowship, to give ample opportunities
of meeting and settling matters, to individuals
who hankered after such encounters.
The raison d'etre was to force
on the business in hand, till what might
have tarried and languished, been blighted
by unexpected contrary winds and perished
in spite of its early promise, was brought
to a swift, irresistible conclusion.

The master of Drysdale Hall was not
satisfied with ordinary entertainments. He
cudgelled his brains and scoured the city
and country for something to show, something
to visit, something to make merry
over. Auld Tam blossomed all at once
into being the patron of half-a-dozen societies,
demanding dinners and suppers and
balls from their munificent patron, with
Drysdale Hall for the headquarters of such
members as were pressed into the service
of these feasts.

Notwithstanding plenty of evidence that
Guy Horsburgh had long ago enabled Sir
Hugo Willougliby to ' do ' Glasgow thoroughly,

Tarn was struck with a sudden
patriotic zeal lest any place should have
been passed by. He insisted on making
up parties of a heterogeneous description,
including all and sundry, among them the
impressed Sir Hugo, to * do ' Glasgow over
again  engineers' shops, sugar-refiners'
premises, cotton-mills, without mercy  the
whole at an unpropitious epoch. And the
sightseers were sure to return in a body
to profit by the lavish hospitality of Drysdale
Hall, grown excessive to the exercising
the soul of the housekeeper and the
wearying of the spirit of Mrs. Drysdale.
There might have been no such thing as
bad trade, to judge from the joviality and
regardlessness of domestic expenses which
auld Tam was exhibiting.

A launch was announced in one of the
shipyards,' to which Tam not only had
access, but was complimented by being
asked to let one of his family name the
vessel. He consented readily, giving the
honour to Clary, and at the last moment

bidding Mr. Mackinnon guide her arm,
which was steady enough in itself. But
Eneas's hand shook in the duty confided
to him, till Claribel told him reproachfully
if she had not been firmer than he was, he
would have caused her to swerve in her
aim, and dash the bottle of wine against
the stays instead of the side of the vessel
so that the good ship Claribel must have
gone forth unchristened and luckless to
meet her fate on the high seas.

Auld Tam took to coveting more pictures
for his gallery, and, losing faith in
his native discernment and considerable
experience, sallied forth, accompanied by
a train of people, to consult on the merits
of the pictures for sale in a west-country
gallery which had come to the hammer.
Very probably Tam was right that, after
himself, Thole Murray was the best judge
among his motley followers. But he deferred
to her till her ears, which she could
not believe, began to tingle, her teeth were
set on edge, and she was re duce to talking

nonsense, when he bought the worst picture
in the lot on her jesting recommendation.
Immediately afterwards, in the
hearing of everybody, he presented the
picture to young Tarn as the ' handsel ' to
a new rooui which had been fitted up for
him. Why, young Tam gaped, even as
Thole's face fell, grew white, and took an
absolutely scared look.

Auld Tam became as incapable of buying
flowers as of purchasing pictures unsupported
by a circle of friends, while he refused,
to delegate the commission to his
head-gardener. Tam summoned the two
Eppies, Thole Murray, and Clary if she
chose, to attend him to the West of Scotland
Autumn Flower Show, and siofnined
graciously to the young men within earshot
of the arrangement that if they had
an eye for ' geraniums ' and ' gladly ' they
might look in at the show and repair to
Ferguson's for luncheon afterwards. Sir
Hugo at least looked in and praised the
display u]) to the skies, all because of a

certain Scotch rose which was infinitely
captivating to him. Young Eppie was
struck by a new pelargonium, of which
not only did her father buy many specimens
from the nurseryman who was its
fortunate introducer, but Sir Hugo was
convinced that it would be a great addition
to the geraniums at Willoughby Court,
and that his mother would like the variety
immensely. He, too, bought largely, when
the seller, apprised of the rank of his customer
and full of visions of his geraniums
becoming the fashion in the great world,
paid the same compliment to Sir Hugo
that the shipbuilder had paid to auld Tam.
The nurseryman offered the young English
baronet the name of the yet nameless
flower. Sir Hugo hesitated, and glanced
from the one to the other with sparkling
eyes and a word trembling on the tip of
his too-ue. He was as modest as he was
ingenuous, and he was too deep in the toils
to be quite free to pay compliments. Still
a flower, like a star, was a beautiful namesake,

fit for his Scotch rose, destined, perhaps,
to hand down her name to a floral
iinmortahty.

Auld Tarn saved the young fellow whatever
delicate scruple he felt.

What would you think, Sir Hugie,'
said the father insinuatingly, ' to give the
name to young Eppie here % She was the
first to call our attention to the flower, so
that the name is hers, in a sense.'

A thousand thanks for the permission,
Mr. Drysdale,' cried Sir Hugo eagerly.
Will you do me the honour to grant your
consent, Miss Eppie V speaking with soft
emphasis, as if hers were the casting vote ;
shall this happy geranium be linked with
you always 1'

'Oh, no, no. Sir Hugo !' protested Eppie,
in a bashful tumult of mingled pride and
humility and instinctive shyness. * It is
not an honour  I mean my name is not an
honour. Call the flower after your mother,
Lady Willoughby, and then it will belike
'' Lady Pollock'' which has such

bonnie leaves. That will be much better.
*' Eppie " is not a nice name for a flower ;
it is not half fine enough. I daresay
Lady Willoughby would not like
it.'

Excuse me said Sir Hugo, beaming,
 you must let me be the judge. My mother
likes all that I like . I should be so pleased
and proud to have your name associated
with anything at Willoughby Court. It
is your mother's name also ; speak for me,
Mrs. Drysdale  you who are good to
everybody  that I may send a token of you
to my home, and find it flourishing there
when I go back.'

You're over kind,' Sir Hughie,' said
gentle mother Eppie.

At that plea of her mothers name,
young Eppie gave in, not without a sense
of innocent importance and elation at
knowing that there was thenceforth a
beautiful flower identified with her, that
the 'Eppie' variety of pelargonium, which
would no doubt come into general favour.

would remain as a remembrance of those
happy days. For very happy were those
days to Eppie. She was young enough to
enjoy with inexhaustible zest, and without
any anxiety, the constant excitement. She
did not even pause to ask what other delightful
glamour of tender flattery, and
pleased approval from all around her, was
thrown over the time  what it all tended
to, and what it all meant.

Tam Drysdale in his rawest youth had
never been so idly disposed, so inclined to
linger before setting out for Glasgow in
the morning, to return to Drysdale Hall
in the middle of the dav, to seek to infect
young Tam with his truancy by proposing
to bring his son away from the office or the
works hours before the appointed time.
It looked as if auld Tam were fain to
break through the dail' routine of business,
in order to pursue pleasure at his
age, and that he desired young Tam's
countenance in the unbecoming proceeding.
The head of the firm replaced the Spirit of

energy which he had displayed on the
back of his unsuspected misfortune by a
kind of disgust at the work which had
formerly been as marrow to his bones. He
accepted every poor excuse for dalliance
and distraction. He would even have
revived croquet-practice, since he was too
heavy and stiff for tennis, if the young
people had not laughed and hung back
from the slow, old-fashioned diversion, so
that he had reason to fear a deficiency of
players.

For no manoeuvring mother was evermore
crafty and persistent in carrying out
her drift. In two conspicuous instances it
was so incomprehensible to the onlooker,
and so opposed to auld Tam's former tactics,
that it baffled the shrewdest wit to penetrate
it, and remained unsolved. If any
mortal had possessed the clue it would
have been pitiable to see the strait to
which Tam Drysdale was reduced to effect
a compromise between honour and dishonour.


Auld Tarn's spasmodic attempts at
gaiety, his uncouth gambols, culminated
in a great ' treat ' or feast to his work-people
at Drysdale Haugh  to which
everybody he knew was invited, and for
which he spared no preparations. At his
instigation the two Eppies were engaged
for a whole day superintending the floral
decorations of the room in which Dr. Peter
had given his lecture. And the giver of
the entertainment went himself and fetched
At hole Murray (one of his pattern-designers
!)  reluctant, annoyed, with a half-comical,
half-hurt and angry sense that
though the younger Eppie was glad to
see her, the elder was affronted by her
presence, and went as near to snubbing
her as it was possible for either of the
Eppies to snub any human being. The
result was that Thole was prompted to
be more merciless in her intolerance of
young Tam, more savage  as even a kind
woman can be savage  in her raillery where
he was concerned, than she had shown

herself for many a day, and that the
revenge was Hkely to be taken under his
mother's indignant, horrified eyes.

There were games, dancing, and a sumptuous
supper for Tarn's satellites. He had
commanded his wife and daughters to
appear in full dress, Eppie in her velvet
and diamonds, Claribel in her ivory tinted
silk and coral, and sweet young Eppie in
the ver}'- soft pink and silver plumage
which Clary had imagined for her. She
wore, with great glee, the prettiest little
watch in Muirhead's, which her father had
given her on her birthday. She was the
real queen of the evening, and she was
admired beyond measure by the worthy
working men and women who had seen
her grow up at their side, and knew her
true, kind heart. Whatever grudge they
might be tempted to bear the other fine
folk, whatever sly joke to crack at auld
Tam's expense, at the very moment he was
giving them so grand a ploy, they had
nothing but admiration and tenderness for

VOL. III. 51

Eppie in her bloom. The young girls in
white muslin, with lockets and ear-rings
hired from the village jeweller for the occasion,
followed her about and watched her
half the evening. Endless inquiries were
made after Miss Eppie's grand young
English * laud ;' he was reported a lord at
least, and all the interest that could be
spared from her was lavished on him. The
couple far eclipsed Miss Drysdale and
Captain Mackinnon ' in the popular regard,
though the last, as they were
reckoned another pair of lovers, awoke
their share of interest.

Auld Tam himself was in irreproachable
black. Young Tam followed suit, defying
the scornful eyes in the face of the vixen
whom Dr. Peter had unwittingly reared.
Yet Thole had the good taste not to
wound the susceptibilities of her handmaid
Jeannie by donning less festive apparel
than was implied in a black tulle gown so
quaintly and prettily trimmed by means
of bands of silk, painted with tufts of

buttercups, that if it was not a costly, it
was certainly a becoming costume.

Sir Hugo would have come in a court
suit if he had possessed one, and it would
have given satisfaction in the right quarter.
It was Guy Horsburgh who betrayed
his friend into the solecism of arriving in
the demi-toilette of a velvet morning-coat.
But Tam Drysdale would have condoned
any coat on ' Sir Hugie's ' back, while
young Eppie secretly thought him like a
prince, and many of the rustic spectators
were fully convinced that velvet coats were
the specialty of English baronets and their
friends.

There was a little difficulty as to who
was to open the ball. It ought to have
been Mrs. Dr3sdale and Sir Hugo, or Mrs.
Drysdale with the oldest dyer in her husband's
employment, followed by auld Tan'
either with Lady Semple or the rosy-cheeked
granddaughter of his first bleacher.
But neither of these arrangements met
Tam's views. Besides, Mrs. Drysdale was

512

timid about her steps, whether, on the
one hand, she could accommodate them to
those of ' Sir Hughie,' friendly as he had
shown himself  to the extent of seeming
to aspire to be her son-in-law  or whether,
on the other, she could contrive to keep
pace with Louvre Leech, who was dead-lame.


There was some apprehension, amongst
those interested in the proceedings of the
couple, that auld Tam would open the ball
himself, dancing with his wife ; but if he
had ever entertained the idea he thought
better of it. He made a speech instead,
and deputed the ceremony to a younger
couple.

My friends,' he said, with a flourish of
his white, soft, but powerful hand, ' me
and my wife are delighted to see you all
here, and wish you a happy night. Weare
getting owt auld, as some of you may
find yourselves, to lead either game or
dance. When the band strikes up our
eldest doctor will stand for her mither,

and there's a gentleman here, whose name
may be known to a wheen of you, that will
do me the favour to lift her. Most of you
alder folk will mind that before I was
maister here, Drysdale Haugh belonged to
Mr. Mackinnon in right of his wife. All
here who mind were their servants since
on a day, and it is fit that the former
maister and mistress of the place, who I
make no doubt did their best for their, folk
in their time, should be remembered and
represented on an occasion like this. Lieutenant
Mackinnon, sir, I'll thank you to
lead out my dochber and open the ball.'

The work people, who 'ruffed,' or beat
with their feet, their applause, might accept
Tam's speech in all sincerity, and regard
this bringing forward of Guy Mackinnon's
son as a generous, kindly deed, worthy of
auld Tarn ; but his nearest and dearest
trembled for him.

Are there ony sievers that take the
head going about X the elder Eppie asked
Dr. Peter, with a shiver ; while the younger

Eppie turned to Sir Hugo, in their growing
intimacy, with innocent perplexity : ' It
is funny of father to make Mr. Mackinnon
open the ball with Clary. I used to be
sure that father did not like Mr. Making
and now to send him to dance with
Clary !'

It is because your father has compassion
upon us young fellows said Sir Hugo
promptly;  and if he had known how I had
set my heart on having this first dance
which you are going to give to that
urchin '

Little Willie Finlay, Sir Hugo,' Eppie
interrupted. * But I was bound to dance
with Willie, for he is as deaf as a horn,
though he is fond to dance, and he needs a
partner that will help him through the
figures. Besides, Clary and me have to
dance with all our men in turn, which will
take us half the night,' added Eppie a
little mischievously. ' If you do not want
to sit still for a couple of hours you had
better let me introduce you to some of the

girls who look so nice ; to Willie's sister
Mary, or to Sibbie Bowden, or Camellia
Duff;

The couple opening the ball by commission
were confounded  even Claribel was
staggered. * I ought to be well acquainted
with my own father,' she said, with an
uneasy laugh, * but till lately I never suspected
him either of dry humour or of
diabolical malice.'

Can he be giving in without a fight X
faltered Eneas. ' It has looked of late
like his yielding without so much as a
protest. He has not only been perfectly
civil, he has been positively kind  asking
me to come over with Semple, including
me in all his invitations, and now distinguishing
me like this. Does he care so
much for you, Claribel, that he will swallow
me and my poverty rather than cross you V

Clary shook her head. * My father has
been a fighting man all his life, more than
you have been. He has welcomed trials
of strength and skill. Why should he

shun a fight ? He Hies me, of course ; he
likes me so well as to let me have my own
way, if I have set my heart ujon it, because
he is both reasonable and kind  I have
always counted on that. But as to his
weakly abetting me in the pursuit of an
object which he does not believe to be for
my good  remember he does not know
you so well as I do  I suspect he would
rather see me in my coffin. He must be
giving us line, as you fishers say, and
laughing at us, though I would not have
expected it from him.'

Mrs. Drysdale had a second grievance
in the course of the evening, which she
took so much to heart that she could not
keep it from Tam. It was a repetition of
a former offence of which she had complained
to him at the time ; and she
thought that if she could thoroughly rouse
him to the asforavated nature of the redoubled
injury, it might help to restore the
balance of mind which he had so strangely
lost.

Tarn she said, drawing her husband
aside into a bower of laurels,  I can stand
this no longer. What do you think I have
seen and heard ? That gipsy of Dr. Peter's
that I should call her such a name ! 
taking off young Tarn to his face, as if
he were the smallest graith in the room,
and putting him off from dancing till it is
her pleasure ; and the laddie standing it
like a caws. Oh ! I could give him a dirt
in the lug [box in the ear] myself' ; and I
could bid her bide wa' from ony place I'm
in, till she can behave herself as becomes a
lassie like her, with due consideration for
her betters. She's weel enough, though
she's no bonnie ; but she's not fit to be
named in the same breath with my Tarn,
who is bewitched, I think.'

Say you so !' answered auld Tam a little
abruptly ; then he pulled himself together,
asserted he must see to it, and before she
could stop him, crossed the room to where
Thole Murray was sitting fluttering a
fan  on which she had painted a yellowhammer

in 'the deil's livery' of sulphur
and black, which corresponded with
the black tulle and buttercups of her gown.

Oh, mercy me ! what have I done ?'
cried poor Mrs. Eppie, in dire dismay. * If
he speaks to her to quarrel her, though she
weel deserves a hurry [scolds, and it come
to young Tarn's ears, he'll neither be to
haud nor bind. My laddie will never speak
to his mither again. That lassie has driven
him demented.'

But auld Tarn addressed Thole with
perfect politeness, even with an undercurrent
of the special regard which he had
always felt for her. 'I hope you're enjoying
yourself', Miss Murray, mem V

Very much, thank you, Mr. Drysdale,'
replied Thole, with perhaps a suspicion of
exaggerated emphasis, but with great goodwill,
for, as she had said, she was fond of
auld Tam  the two suited each other
wonderfully She brightened up at his
approach, with a sense of security and confidence.
He would not tease or misunderstand

her. To encourage young Tarn in
his folly would be the last thing he would
think of doing. At the same time he,
a aid Tam, could let his son take care of
himself. Her father's friend would not
sacrifice her to young Tarn's dignity. He
would be honest and friendly, giving her
the credit of doing her best in a difficulty
how great and sore none save herself
knew.

'I'm glad to hear you're happy,' Tam
assured his guest with almost wistful
earnestness. ' I want everybody to be
happy the night. A treat means a rarity,
and as one never kens whether it can be
given twice by the same hand, I would
fain do the thing thoroughly when I've
the chance. I hope all the arrangements
are to your mind V

Nothing could be better,' Thole said
quickly  she was not quite so certain as
she had been of her safety with auld Tam.
His speech had already recalled to her
mind that he had not been like himself

lately. He was one of nature's gentlemen
in the main, as she had always known 
courteous and kind to his old friend's
daughter ; but he was more at this moment,
lie was pointedly, painfully deferential, ashe
had been at the picture sale. She did
not like his manner. She could not tell
what to make of it. ' I believe everybody
is very happy she added vaguely ; 'you
may have the satisfaction of thinking that
you have given a great deal of harmless
pleasure to a number of people.'

I have heard there are exceptions,' he
said dubiously. ' I've a notion I've seen
ae discontented face, and another that is
petted, gin it be not peevish. Will you
forgive an auld man  auld enough to be
your father  your father's friend for that
matter, for taking a liberty ? What ails
you at dancing with young Tam ? If
you're so happy yourself', can you not spare
a crumb to a poor beggar who has long
been rigging [p'yi,]  grace, this
night boon a' nicias, when everybody's

heart is or should be as Hcht as his heels ?
Is it consistent with a gracious teddy's
happiness to be glad when a gentleman
suffers ? or are you behaving on principle,
Miss Murray, mem % I ken I've no right
to speer [ask] ; but you and me have
been gude friends  have we no V

Thole stared and grew red and pale
again in an instant. She flicked her dress
with her fan bearing the bird that wears
the deil's livery.  There is no poor beggar
here,' she said sharply ; ' you know that as
well as I. If there were, it might be
different. But, indeed, you have no right
to say anything, though you are the owner
of this place and the giver of this ball,
though you employ me along with your
work people. No,' she prevented a vehement
protest,  I do not mean for a moment that
you have not been everything that is good
and kind to me ; but I hope I too know
how to behave civilly  you see you have
touched me on a sore point.' She gave a
faint smile. * Yet  well, I did not expect

it from you. T wonder what Mrs. Drysdale
would say ? she knows better, after all.
How would you judge of your wish that
everybody should be happy  supposing I
complied with it, and supposing you wasted
a thought upon it tomorrow morning V
she ended bitterly.

For Thole had made the great mistake
of imapfininof that auld Tarn was so far left
to himself as to desire she should gratify
young Tarn's inclinations for the moment,
at the expense of her pride and consistency;
that she should permit attentions of which
nothing could come, in order to increase
the hilarity of the evening, at least where
one member of the party was concerned.

To her amazement and distress, in place
of leaving her or losing his temper, or even
begging her pardon, auld Tanii began to
plead passionately on behalf of his son.
I've no right to speak  less than none.
I'm weel aware of it he said, in agitation
which he could not conceal. ' Very likely
he would be the first to blame me for

advocating his cause  and why should he
need an advocate with a teddy when he
seeks her favours ? He's a brewer man
than ever his father was, and women like
strapping chiefs. He's been reared a
gentleman, and he's nearer the real article
than mony a lord. He is not sat or gay
of speech  he's looking dour and doff
[stubborn and sad] enough at this minute
when illa other face is gay. But whose
fault is that, I should like to know % It's
ill for a lad to thole a lass's scorn, to be
slighted when he has looted [bent], proud
as he may be, to his knee. He's partner
in a fine business, and he's making a
grander business-man than I could ever
have dreamt. His heart is in the right
place, and is as sound as a bell. What
Avould you have mair ?' demanded auld
Tam, with rising indignation. ' Do you
want his mither as well as his father to
speak up for him % But is that like a
reasonable teddy ? My Eppie is as good a
soul as ever breathed, but she's his mither,

and so her ain bird is whitest among the
craws ; no other bird that he can choose
will ever come nigh him for whiteness in
her been. It's human nature, that ; it's
mither's nature. I thocht you would have
understood and made allowance for 't, that
it is useless to fecit against it. But I'll
be bound she'll bear no spite, and come
round as fast as ever woman came round,
if no other man stand in the way  I've
never heard tell of any other, and you
could gar my Tam's heart low [leap] with
a kind word or look, and take the wind
when it blows in your barn-door.'

She got up and left him in the middle
of his pleadings. She could stand no more
of such raving. She found her father and
clung to him, addressing half-a-dozen arguments
to him in favour of goings home
early. As she stood awaiting his compliance
with her request, she put it to him :

Father, suppose a man does the very
reverse of what you have been accustomed
to see him do, and flies in the face of

natural prejudices without the smallest
reason, what would you think ?'

 I can hardly tell, unless I were to know
the man said canny Dr. Peter ; * but folk
would have said lang syne that he was

fey." '

I am sorry,' said Thole, in a low,
grave tone.

If you mean auld Tam, as I take it you
do,' said her father, in the same key, 'so
am I  sick and sorry. There's the devil to
pay there, or I am much mistaken. I
never thought to have witnessed the signs
in this quarter. What is it '? Over trade,
bad times, loss of credit, a heap of debt, an
expensive style of living which cannot bo
altered without arousing suspicion ? The
result is the same  wild to get his
daughters off his hands at a moment's
notice, even though he can find no better
protector for Clary than the penniless
officer, Gavin Mackinnon's son, whom auld
Tam was wont to despise. As for Sir
Hugo, he would have been a big fish in

VOL. III. 52

the smoothest water, but one might have
hoped that Tarn Drysdale was above
angling for it. Young Tam's looking put
about, so that you need not have snapped
at him, Thole. I suppose it is a bad
custom you have fallen into. Well, since
we can do no good, we had better keep out
of the mess, for mess it will be.'

I don't know what it all means said
Thole, knitting her brows, ' unless that
auld Tam's fey.'

Auld Tam brought forward Eneas 
a second time before the evening:
was over. When Tam's health was drunk,
in returning thanks, he begged to couple
them with the name of Lieutenant ,
the son of the former proprietor
of Drysdale Haugh.

The toast sounded to many people, as
possibly auld Tam intended it should, tantamount
to announcing Claribel's eno-acre-
ment, and introducing: youno- Mackinnon
in the character of a member of the family.

Eneas muttered his gratitude in a couple

of words. Some among: the audience
thought it was a pity the response could
not have been made by his future partner
in Hfe, who would have been quite equal
to delivering a calm, well-bred, suitable
little speech. She must coach her bridegroom
in anticipation of the wedding breakfast.


522

SIR HUGO LAYS HIMSELF AND WILLOUGHBY
COURT AT YOUNG EPPIE's FEET.

Guy Horsburgh threw up his last futile
attempt to restrain Sir Hugo, to keep him
back from a declaration of his sentiments
before he had got time to cool, or before
any aristocratic friend or batch of friends
could interfere in his interests. Sir Husfo
was of age ; he was his own master, he
could go his own way, as he showed every
inclination to do. For the rest, Lady Willoughby
must see to it, though Guy had
first brought her son to Glasgow.

After all, the result was not so deplorable
or so unexampled as it might have been.
Sir Hugo was going to ally himself with

trade ; but so had earls and marquises before
him. He was on the eve of proposing
to marry one of the loveliest, sweetest girls
in the West of Scotland, with a large fortune,
if auld Tarn cleared himself, as he
certainly would, from the reverses of bad
times. Sir Hugo might go farther and
fare worse. Lady Willoughby might have
an infinitely less satisfactory daughter-in-law
thrust upon her. The whole Willoughby
race might have reason to bless
the day which had sent Sir Hugo to woo
and win a fair and good Glasgow heiress.

Unquestionably Sir Hugo thought so.
He was in the seventh heaven of young
love  worthy as it was ardent, unlikely to
be balked, and yet not so certain of its
crowning success as to lack the stimulus of
doubt and difficulty, the excitement of the
chase. Would young Eppie Drysdale quit
her country and her people, leave father
and mother  though it was in the Bible
that it could and should be done  for him,
to go where he went, to dwell where he

dwelt, to make his people, with their different
ways, her people and her ways, till
nothing but death should part her and
him ?

The gossips of St.Mungo had little doubt
of the answer. They had lately wavered a
little in their long-standing conviction of
auld Tarn's luck. He was known to be
bitten' by more than one of the unfortunate
traders who were succumbincf on all
sides to the ebb of the tide of trade. It
was generally rumoured that his only son
and elder daughter were about to make
inferior matches. But the news of the
probable engagement of Tam's younger
daughter  a mere schoolgirl  to a grand
young English baronet, with a ' Court ' to
take her to, quite restored the balance of
her father's reputation for good fortune.
Tam Drysdale knew what he was about,
and he would keep at the top of the tree in
spite of contradictions such as fell to the lot
of the most prosperous of men. Young
Eppie Drysdale ' Lady Willoughby of Willoughby

Court !' Auld Tarn might have
been the Lord Provost and his daughter
not fared so well.

That was the summer of life for some of
the family at Drysdale Hall, though they
were also the days in which little Eppie
awoke to find herself a woman, to relinquish
reluctantly her bright care-free girlhood,
to realize her lot of merging her life
in that of another, and being ready to
sacrifice herself for him. If ever there
were idols enacted in modern times, that
suit of Sir Hugo's, under the blatant auspices
of trade, was one of them. He Alas
so young, generous, and devoted ; she was
so simple and so sweet, so unworldly in her
coming promotion, so unmoved by it, so
genuinely humble, still so tenderly attached
to all that she was nevertheless preparing
to give up. Her nature, in place of being
hardened and tarnished by the gain which
came to her  as it must have come to every
true woman in her circumstances  tempered
by loss, was deepened and purified. All

who had eyes to see stood still to look on
and be moved by the domestic drama,
when Eppie clung closer than ever to her
father and mother, and spent upon them
her most winsome wiles at the very time
that she was singing  My love she's but a
lassie yet,' and 'What ails this heart o'
mine ?' every evening to Sir Hugo, hanging
entranced upon her words. She did not so
much as forget once poor deaf little Willie
Finlay, or Beardie, or Whitebreeks, when
the time came that Sir Huoco soutjht, with
many excuses and apologies, almost to live
at Drysdale Hall, when he was a miserably
restlessly discontented fellow if he was half
a day out of the presence of its younger
daughter in which he basked, when he
haunted her and all connected with her
like an exacting orhost. If he could not
quite say of her that he

*Gat her doyn by yonder knowe,
Smiling on a brownie knowe,
Herding ae wee lamb and ewe,
For her pair mammy;'

lie could aver that he found her continually
going on some errand of filial affection or
human kindness. He called himself thrice
blessed when she suffered him to meet her
father with her, in her company to wait
upon her mother, to do young Tam's bidding,
to find something Clary wanted, to
choose a picture-book for Willie Finlay, to
take a warm jacket to Willie's consumptive
cousin Maggie, to carry bones to Beardie
and knobs of sugar to Whitebreeks.

When Sir Hugo thought of Eppie's relations
to her homely father and mother, he
contrasted them with what he had read,
but declined manfully to believe, of 'girls of
the period.' These daughters at ease were
said to despise, in place of honouring, their
fathers and mothers ; to blush  not alone
for the faults of the girls' progenitors, but
for harmless peculiarities and hostilities
which ought to have been sacred  might
even have been dear  to the children of the
perpetrators. Such girls were freely represented
as rebellion against the lawful authority

of their parents, and hating them with
a hideous unnatural hatred. Sir Hugo was
too good a fellow, too sensible and manly,
to have much faith in the general existence
of these unwomanly young women, and undisciplined,
undutiful heroines. But he
recalled what he had seen of a very different
order of girls living under the same
roof with their fathers and mothers, yet
practically apart from them, divided from
them by a host of half-real, half-artificial
obligations, trained to separate interests,
occupations, and goals. Then his heart
grew full, and he thanked God fervently
that he had been shown another description
of girl, another description of daughter
  how true, how tender ! one whom he could
give to his own good mother, and know that
he was rewarding her for all her care and
affection where he was concerned, by bestowing
on her  whether she knew it at
first, or not, she would live to know it  the
best of children.

It was as if the world had ixrown vounor

again this autumn at Drysdale Hall, and
many who got a glimpse of scenes enacted
in Paradise were touched by them, and became
for the moment softened men and
women. It was not only auld Tam and his
Eppie who were thus affected  young Tam,
with his dash of cynicism in his very philanthropy
and his Radical views, did not
accuse Sir Hugo of narrow arrogance and
assumption, but was indulgent to him.
Even young Tam was susceptible, shamefacedly,
of a good deal of wondering half-humorous
gratification at the idea of his
sister, wild little Eppie, becoming Lady
Willoughby. He secretly read up the
English county history, which expatiated
on the dignity and local benefactions of
the Willoughby, and on the antiquarian
and architectural glories of the Lincolnshire
Court. Insensibly Tarn's bearing
altered a little towards his young sister.
It was not only softer, with a lurking,
wistful affection in anticipation of losing
her  a creature so deservedly dear to the

family; it had a certain instinctive respect
for the girl who was so soon to achieve
matronly honours, who had made a slave
of a fellow with wit and independence in his
own line, like Sir Hugo, so that he stooped
from his class and defied their censure, in
seeking a city girl for the future mistress
of his home.

And all the time she to whom this subtle
tribute was paid thought hardly at all,
unless it were with fear and trembling, of
rank such as Sir Hugo owned, and social
position like that to which he would raise
her.

Claribel had foreseen young Ejpie's conquest
from the beginning, and accepted it
fully. Now, in the engrossment of her own
very different engagement to Eneas ,
tacitly allowed by her father, without
a word spoken. Clary not only welcomed
her sister's higher fortunes  she found
leisure and energy to try to prepare
Eppie for them. It was not by polishing
her manners, for, since these had their

share in captivating Sir Hugo, Clary
wisely left off attempting to improve
upon them, deciding that they had their
charm for ancient gentility. It was in
gently opening Eppie's eyes to what the
future held for her, and accustoming her
to the change which awaited her.

Claribel had taken great pleasure in presiding
over Eppie's toilet lately, and in
insisting that her particular style and taste
should have every advantage which high
art and accomplished modistes could give
them.

I don't wish you to be anything save
yourself, Eppie dear,' said Clary. * I do
not know that you could be greatly improved,
and I am certain I should never
be forgiven if I destroyed your identity.
Somebody's indignation would pursue me
for the rest of my days. But there are
various kinds of simplicity, and you ought
to deal in the most perfect kind, which
unites nature and art. You are bound to
use the allowance that my father makes

SAINT MUNGO'S CITY,

to each of us, which, as you have just
grown up, you have entered upon so lately,
you little chit. But to use it as the giver
intended is not to spend the greater part
of it in presents to him and my mother,
which you know they do not require,
though they may be pleased by your
thinking of them in that way, and in
gifts to servants and children and poor
people. You ought to learn to have your
dress, your tout ensemble, according to your
station, or harm will come of it. That
reminds me, when I came out I got my
choice of any set of jewels short of diamonds,
like mother's, that I preferred,
and I took corals. What will you have ?
Not topazes  they are pink, but you must
not be all pink. I should have opals if I
were you, Eppie ; they suit any colour, and
they would not be too much for you.'

Oh ! don't speak about it, Clary,' cried
Eppie, half-radiant, half-shrinking.  I think
father has a good deal to do with his money
this year. I am sure he looks duller than

he used to look. I can scarcely ever get
him to make fun and laugh, as I once could
I heard Tam and Dr. Peter speaking of bad
trade.'

What has a baby like you to do with
bad trade V demanded Claribel incredulously.
' Do you think what we spend
makes any difference to our father "? What
the whole house spends is a drop in the
ocean of his business outlay. It would be
another thing if one of us married a poor
man, a man with a small settled income,
which could never become much larger  
like an officer's pay,' added Clary, with a
meaning smile ; ' then that foolish woman
must cut her gown according to her
cloth.'

And wouldn't she be happy to do it if
it were for her man's sake !' cried Eppie,
blushing very red and taking Clary aback
by a sudden hug, which hid Eppie's blushes.

Oh, my gown, Eppie !' protested Clary.

What about your gown V replied Eppie
recklessly, returning to the main point. * Oh,

I like you for it, Clary ; and I am so glad
to see that father is beginnings to take to the
Lieutenant.'

Is he ? I am not sure said Claribel,
with unwonted indecision. ' My father has
puzzled me lately. All the same, child, I
am very thankful that you are not going
to follow my example. One disinterested
goose is enough in a family. 1 did not
mean to be that goose, but Fate and Eneas
Mackinnon have been too strong for me.
Fancy poor dear Eneas being too strong for
anybody ! But there are those who overcome
by lack of strength  if passive endurance
lack of strength. I armstrong enough
in the common, vulgar way, for both : I believe
I have been wasted in the family for
want of somebody to take care of, you are all
so well off and independent. I first found
my mission when the old Miss Mackinnons
suffered me to look after them. But don't
let us forget what we are talking about 
you must have your opals, Eppie.*

They are things that should belong to a

grand lady. It would like me to take care
of them.'

But you are going to be a grand lady,
little woman ; and if you are not able to
keep opals, what are you to do with
diamonds ? I have no doubt old Lady
Willoughby has family diamonds which
will pass to her son's wife.'

She is not old,' cried Eppie, staunch as
ever in maintaining the earthly immortality
of her seniors. * He says he remembers
her looking so young and pretty, in spite of
her widow's cap. She was not twenty-three
when his father died,' explained Eppie
shyly and softly. ' She will wear her
diamonds as long as she lives  who has
such a good right ? who would take them
from her ?  and she will leave them to
whom she likes. I'm sure he would say so.
But oh, it is all nonsense !' broke off Eppie,
in trepidation. ' I wish you would not
speak about it. Clary. He has never
steered me ; and do you think I could bear
to go away from father and mother and all

VOL. III. 53

of you at Drysdale Hall, where I've been
so happy ? It would just kill me

You would come alive afraid and live for
him said Claribel, with smiling faith.
He has not asked you in so many words
to be his wife. Perhaps as you are so
3oung, though he is young himself, he may
choose to put the question to my father
first. But I know he has talked to you by
the hour of his home, and how you would
like it, and what you would do there. Ashe
is a gentleman and not an adventurer,
true and not false, you w411 have it in your
power to be the mistress of Willoughby
Court, and you will not send him away 
such a nice fellow as he is  disconsolate. I
wonder if you will condescend to receive a
poor officer and his wife some day at your
fine place, Eppie ?'

The suggestion was too much for Eppie
in the highly wrought state of her feelings.
What was she, that she should ever live to
patronize Clary and the Lieutenant ? The
bare idea smote her with affront and distress,

so that she burst into hysterical tears

and had to be coaxed and scolded back into

composure.

Auld Tarn and his Eppie were stirred to

the very depths of their natures, when the

destiny of their darling was wrought out

before their eyes. Many a time Mrs. Drysdale,

even while her motherly eyes glistened

with pride and joy, withdrew to 'greet'

(weep) in secret over the relinquishment of

her child. To think that little Eppie, who

had always been as fondly faithful to her

earliest ties as when she was a toddling

child, who had never been three months

absent from home, or a week away from

her father and mother since she was born,

should

Aye be away,'

and in the very greatness of her marriage
parted from them by barriers to which the
Cheviot and the Tweed were nothing ;
to remember that if she had waited for
some years, and married in an ordinary
fashion a moderately thriving manufacturer

532

or merchant in her father's circle, she might
have been settled near Drysdale Hall  she
might have seen her whole family two or
three times a week as a matter of course 
these considerations oiiorht to have been a
cure for ambition. But the mother was
equal to the offering up of her very heart's
blood for the object of her love. Being
sure of ' Sir Hughie,' as Mrs. Drysdale
believed herself, that he was a fine lad who
would be good to young Eppie, the mother
would not stand as an obstacle in the
daughter's path. She would be ready when
the time came to do more than cut off a
right hand and pluck out a right eye. So
that little Eppie might be a grand lady,
loved and honoured in a higher sphere,
then big Eppie, who had borne her and
delighted in her young charms, would be
content with the crumbs which fell from
the rich man's table, with passing glimpses
of her bairn, and more or less distant reports
of her dignity and happiness.

Auld Tam was not so sure either of his

child or of himself. Young Eppie would
be safe, though there should be a storm and
downfall  that was one food things which
had tempted him. But could he endure to
think that she would go where she might
be looked down on, instead of made much
of  scorned in place of cherished ? Her
little rustic ways, with love lying at their
root, though ' Sir Hugie ' had not minded
them, or had gone so far as to be captivated
by them, for a change, in these his red-hot
love days, might look different in his eyes
when the ways had lost their novelty, and
marriage had cooled his passion and restored
his judgment. Trifles like these
sometimes made mischief between man and
wife.

Tam Drjsdale could ill stand the thought
of his innocent, loving lassie being mortified
and ' lighted ' (slighted). He would come
bound that she would never ' lightly ' her
mother and him in her turn  it was not in
her constant, gentle heart. But she might
be taught to ' think shame ' for those who

had been first with her  whom, until now,
in her guilelessness and goodness, she had
well-nigh worshipped.

That was a prospect which auld Tam had

difficulty in facing. He did not doubt ' Sir

Hugie ' in so far as that he meant well and

was an honourable and kindly-disposed

young gentleman. But Tam Drysdale had

heard that like should mate with like, and

he could not pretend to say that his bairn

bonnie and dear as she was to him 

ought to be reckoned a fit match for a

real gentleman  a titled gentleman of solid

acres and long descent. And if in the

time to come ' Sir Huo-ie ' should be further

disappointed in what he might conceive lie

had a right to expect  should have reason

to say that he had not been candidly and

honestly dealt with  could auld Tam be

certain that the disappointment and the

offence would not be visited on a blameless

victim ? The retaliation might not be open,

but indirect and half unconscious, partly

concealed from the very person who was

guilty of the meanness of using such
weapons, so as to be less easy to challenge
and denounce ; but the undeserved punishment
would fall on the tender heart, already
writhing under a sense of the failure of
those it had once exalted.

To Tarn's other heavy troubles was added
yet this one more grave perplexity, whether
in promoting young Eppie's great marriage
he was not really wronging her, his pet
lamb, worst of all, and cruelly risking her
best chance of happiness.

When all else was said, a quivering note
of interrogation was added to what went
before  Had the business not gone too far
to be stopped ? Was it possible for him
still to draw back ? Poor auld Tam ! he
was pulled two ways and torn in different
directions, till he hovered on the verge of
distraction.

Little wonder that Tam Drysdale, towards
the end of Sir Hugo's courtship,
looked, as often as not, heavy and displeased
on what was evidently approaching its

legitimate conclusion. He caused the bystanders
to exclaim in a high key among
themselves  What would the man be at ?
was there no end to his ambition % Did
he seek dukes for his daughters \ or was ita
mere feint of indifference and scanty
approval, unworthy of auld Tam's character
for sincerity ?

THE SEAL TO SIR HUGO's SUIT.

The prettiest episode of Sir Hugo's wooing
occurred when Lady Seraphs suddenly
struck out the bright idea of bringing down
Lady Willoughby to pay her a visit and
judge for herself, when it was too late, of
her son's choice.

Far from Sir Hugo's offering any objection
 as if he were ashamed of what he was
about, or had the slightest conception that
his feelings might undergo a change, or
that anybody, even his mother, to whom he
was so strongly attached, had the smallest
riofht to interfere with him in his choice of
a wife  he was charmed with the opportunity
of introducing the Drysdales,

especially Eppie, to Lady Willougliby ;
and at the same time, though he was his
own master, and was not very down-hearted
about winning the day, he caught at the
chance of securing his mother's potent voice
on the side of his suit.

Sir Hufyo had so talked himself into the
belief of the transcendent merits of the
merchant princes of St. Mungo's, he had
so swallowed wholesale the peculiarities of
the Drysdale household, and then, with his
strong young mental and moral digestion,
dismissed them without any great effort,
that he had for the moment ceased to be
conscious of their existence. He was onl v
aware of a long list of commercial virtues,
and that young Eppie was the loveliest,
most artless, most divine of mortal
maidens.

Sir Hugo met his mother unembarrassed
and without apprehension  rather triumphant
in having done so well by himself
and her. She was full of pain at the
thought of losing]: her son so soon, as it

seemed to her; of doubt of his youthful
wisdom in this direction, when love  above
all, a boy's love  was notoriously blind ;
of rising repulsion  good as she was  at
the trading middle-class into which he had
strayed. He was only eager to escort her
to Drysdale Hall, and to present her, as
his best credentials, to his friends. To her
mingled indignation, relief, and reluctant
amusement, she found her boy was making
his own of this visit of hers, which had
been paid with another intention. In spite
of Lady Semple's flowing accounts of the
unobjectionable, indeed the very delightful,
young Glasgow heiress who had happily
captivated Sir Hugo, Lady Willoughby
was come down on a mission of anxious inspection,
agitated inquiry, and, if need were,
in her son's interests, grieved but determined
opposition  powerless as she was to
hinder his will  with the hope, at least, of
holding him back for a moment from wrecking
his life for a young man's idle fancy.
And here was he marshalling her as his

complacent mother who was lending her
countenance to his infatuation !

Lady Willoughby became confused and
nervous with the turn matters had taken,
but Sir Hugo offered an unmoved countenance.
Auld Tarn swaggered, though not
so briskly as of old, over his possessions.
Mrs. Drjsdale, in the height of her timidity
and her devotion to her child  the quality
which of all things would have touched the
visitor, had she been capable of measuring
the large amount of fellow-feeling between
the mistress of the house and herself  was
at once unduly fine and unduly humble, and
blundered hopelessly in her small affectations.
It was all lost on the couple's
future son-in-law, who smiled with cheerful
unconcern, as if he knew better, as if
everything were right in the main. Neither
young Tam nor Claribel was of any use as
interpreter and smoother-down of grievances,
though Lady Willoughby saw at a
glance that they were, in the language of
her class, * civilized ' like other people.

Lady Semple, who had created the ,
struck in energetically, and talked
on every subject under the sun, to no
purpose.

It was, as it should have been, young
Eppie  who was not exactly civilized, and
not like other girls of her age whom Lady
Willoughby had known  that, without intending
it, came to the rescue, and prevented
the interview from proving an utter
failure  nay, what was worse, an irretrievable
disaster. Yet, strange to say, Eppie
had never shown herself so refractory, so
unmanageable. She was coy to the verge
of absurdity and provocation of the most
indulgent of her friends. Eppie declined
absolutely to be trotted out by Lady
Semple. The girls shrank away from the
perfectly gentle Lady Willoughby, who was
nearly as much put out, and a great deal
sorer in heart than anybody else present,
though her years and her good breeding
had taught her to control herself and put
the best face on a difficulty. Even in her

unwillingness to come forward and distinguish
Eppie, her ladyship was yet desirous
of being quite courteous, if possible
gracious, to everybody. She might be thereto
forbid the banns, but it would be done
in the most reasonable, forbearing manner.

But little Eppie looked at Lady Willoughby,
of whom the girl had spoken
reverently and tenderly, as if the lady was
an aristocratic tyrant of the old regime
and the first water, come to annihilate the
maiden for beguiling her son.

It was all his doing,' Eppie, standing at
bay, kept saying to herself ' I would
never have so much as looked at him  he
who might have had Clary or anybody ;
but he sought me out as if he liked me
best, and how could I withstand him ?'

All the same she withstood Lady Willoughby,
who was like her son. Eppie
turned her back upon her ladyship unmistakably
; she would not be drawn forward,
but kept at a distance from the visitor,
and left other people to entertain her.

Eppie answered her interrogator in monosyllables
when Lady Willoughby forced
herself to address the little rustic beauty
Who had won her son. Eppie did not so
much as care that Sir Hugo began to look
vexed. She was unjust for the moment,
but it was an innocent, disinterested injustice.
Let him take away his mother and
leave Eppie to hers, for with a sudden
revulsion Eppie turned and clung to her
mother, held by her skirts, as it were,
and would not be taken away from
her.

It was this very attitude of rebellion
and defiance, this simple clinging to the
common woman,' her mothers, and ignoring
the lady. Sir Hugo's mother, together
with Eppie's winsome, youthful loveliness,
which broke down Lady Willoughby's defences.
It was the old story of ' My boy
Tammy ' over again, of the true woman
who knew by unerring instinct that her
son could not be wrong in loving the
 young thing ' whose heart was so full of

her ' mammy,' and by an answering sweet
and noble impulse ratified his choice.

Lady Willoughby commenced, not so
much to unbend  for she was always
modest and meek  as to warm. She took
no further notice of young Eppie, but she
smiled a wonderfully frank, kind smile
upon mother Eppie and auld Tam. She
began to speak pleasantly, and in the most
friendly manner, of her son as of a person
in whom they too were interested. She
looked around her with observant eyes,
and took notice of all the things he had
written about and described to her, delicately
indicating that, though lie might, if
he would, take the most important step in
life without her consent, he had not taken
it without her knowledge  he had kept
no secrets from his mother. She ended
by making herself at home during her
short stay, and manifesting a sincere and
flattering desire to be better acquainted in
the future with every tiling and everybody
at Drysdale Hall, for at present she was

merely passing a day with the Semples at
Semple Barns on her way to another
friend's country-house  as it happened, the
home of the Honourable Lilias, who held
Dick Semple in her chains.

Then young Eppie stole from her
mother's side and went into the conservatory,
still refusing Sir Hugo's attendance
and assistance. She gathered Avitli
her own hands, daring and defying the
ogre of a head-gardener, some of the most
choice flowers, and arranged them as only
she and her mother knew how. Eppie
came back when Lady Willoughby's foot
was already on the step of the Semple
Barns carriage, followed her and made
the peace-offering mutely, with changing
colour and untutored grace.

Lady Willoughby turned as lightly as
if she had been only half her age, accepted
the flowers, and equally without a word,
kissed and smiled on the Oliver. That kiss
and that smile were the sion of free forgiveness,
Lady Willoughby's seal to her

VOL. III. 54

son's suit which neither Sir Hufo's wife
nor Sir Hugo's mother were ever likely to
forget.

She will do, Hugo,' his mother confessed
to him in private. ' She would
have been a perfect love of a girl, whether
she had been a princess or a peasant. I
do not know that I could have wished
one better or half so good for you, perhaps.
But oh, my dear boy ! it was running a
terrible risk for you to go out of your
rank, and lose your heart without so much
as thinking what you were about. And I
doubt there Avill be difficulties ; you will
have to be very patient, very generous,
very prudent, Hugo. I am afraid you do
not know yet what you are doing. Though
she were the sweetest, dearest girl in the
world, when there is anything like a mh-
chance, there is a great deal to bear.'

'Nonsense, mother. These merchant
princes look down upon us poor "landed
gentry," as they call us. They don't need
to covet matches with us. Besides, Mr.

and Mrs. Drysdale are excellent people,
you must see that ; and I don't care a rap
for things the young man went on in one
of his high flights, speaking rather incoherently.
' I believe I am thick-skinned.
The risk has been well repaid, and, if you
are satisfied, it is all right ; that is, if she
will have me, if she will make up her mind
to exchange Drysdale Hall for Willoughby
Court.'

Lady Willoughby did not answer. She
had made great concessions, but she would
indeed have been a wonderful woman if,
with her nurture, she could have realized
that to some people, and those not the
worst in the world, Drysdale Hall in its
over-blown splendour might have attractions
superior to Willoughby Court with
its fine flavour of old gentility.

After all, when Sir Hugo made his
formal proposal, and asked Eppie's hand
from her father, the young man was astonished
and disappointed by auld Tarn's
returning him a doubtful, evasive answer.

542

Tarn Drysdale expressed himself as much
obliged, he ought to say honoured, by ' Sir
Hugie's ' offer. He was perfectly aware of
the compliment which had been paid to
his daughter : but there was time enoui]fh
to think of her marriage ; she was very
young. He could not answer ' Sir Hugie '
positively at that moment, or indeed for
some time to come  not even after Eppie's
father should have ascertained her feelings
on the subject.

All a lover's eloquence and impatience
were wasted in vain, in spite of the fact
that Sir Husfo had been accustomed to find
himself treated as a person of consequence
all his life. Auld Tam would not stir from
his position. He was much obliged and
highly honoured, etc., etc. He did not
desire to be ungracious or rude, but he
could not five an absolute answer at a
moment's notice. He must have time to
think over matters. Sir HuQfo must wait.
If little Eppie were not worth waiting for,
then the young gentleman had better let

her alone and go his way. ' Dod !' he
might be thankful that he got no worse
answer ; he himself had been forced to
speer twice at auld Mercer, who knew him
a handle better than he knew * Sir Hughes
before he got his Eppie.

Sii' Hugo might have replied that the
circumstances were different, and that
something more was due to him. But he
refrained. He certainly thought young
Eppie worth waiting for, and after the
first shock of mortified pride and baffled
ardour was surmounted, the ingenuous
nature and excellent temper of the young
man came out in the good grace with
which he submitted to the uncalled-for
period of uncertainty and probation to
which he was sentenced. Nobody could
see any reason for the trial, but Sir Hugo
came off so far the victor by cleverly
making stock of auld Tam's hesitation.
Sir Hugo managed not only to secure the
sympathy and support of the bride and all
the other members of her family, but to

prove to his mother and the connections
of his house acquainted with the affair, the
truth of his assertion of the disinterestedness
and superiority of the merchant
princes, and how guiltless they were in the
person of Mr. Drysdale of Drysdale Hall
of any anxiety to bestow a daughter on
Sir Hugo Willoughby.

It was auld Tam's own household that
were most aggrieved by his conduct.

 What does my father mean X demanded
young Tam, with a fellow-feeling for his
brother bachelor in the ordeal he was made
to pass through. ' He ought not to have
suffered Sir Hugo to come so much here,
if my father intended to object at the last
moment.'

He will get Eppie and all of us talked
about,' complained Claribel. ' People will
not understand. They will suppose Sir
Hugo has drawn back, or that there is some
trouble with the settlements.'

Oh, does father not like him ? What
fault can father find with him ? I'm sure

he likes father poor Eppie pled piteously
with her mother, till what Mrs. Drysdale
called her  corruption her unregenerate
nature, was roused to remonstrate strongly
in her turn with her husband.

Would you mar your bairn's credit and
happiness. Tarn Drysdale, for a fruit [fancy]
at this time of the day? Nobody feels
more keenly than me that she is going-out
from us, that we are giving her up to
the fine lad. But they're a braw young
couple. Eppie will be my teddy, and what
for no ? If Providence has willed her promotion,
my bit lassie is worthy to wear a
crown, like Queen Esther in the Auld Testament.
We've no earthly title to prevent
it. What's come over you that you cinna
see that? What makes you sae thrawn
[cross], lad f

But neither did auld Tam yield to the
wife of his bosom. He had always the
same answer to give time enough. He
must think. He would give his consent, or
it might be his denial, when it was fitting.
If Sir Hugie could not stay  let him go.

A CHARMED SAIL.

In the middle of auld Tarn's perversity, he
suddenly announced that he would take a
holiday sail. He had never set up a yacht
of his own, neither had young Tarn adopted
that refuge and glory of a maritime people,
especially of the young swells of the mercantile
world of the West of Scotland.
But there were various friends' yachts at
auld Tam's disposal the moment he signified
his intention. Neither was company likely
to fail him ; but here he was as arbitrary
as he had been lately in other matters.
He would have nobody with him save the
two Eppies. He would not allow the
presence of young Tam, saying that he

might be wanted at the office and works
in his father's absence. But neither would
Tarn have Clary with him, though she was
an experienced and excellent yachts woman ;
she should stay at home and keep house
while her mother was away; and he actually
scouted the suggestion of the attendance of
Sir Hugo, who had nothing else to do,
would have liked nothing in the world
better, and made humble overtures to be
allowed to join the party. The planner of
the expedition desired a rest  complete,
however short  from the toils of business,
and, for that matter, of hospitality ; and to
procure this he must have none except the
two members of his family whom he had
chosen  his wife and his younger daughter
to sail with him.

The drawbacks were that neither of the
Eppies where good sailors, that both had a
most unaffected dislike to spending days
and nights at sea, and that though the
weather was remarkably fine for the season,
this month of October had been reached,

with its lengthening' nights, shortening
days, chill, frosty air, and sudden gales,
striking terror into the hearts of lands-women.


But the two women on whom auld Tam
had pitched to bear him company would
never fail their lord and master. Had it
been Styx and not Clyde he had fixed on
for his watery highway, and had Charon
and not an honest man from Lares been
the steersman of the vessel, the two Eppies
would have prone down as devotedly and
almost as intrepidly, with a certain fond
pride that auld Tam should have elected
them for the partners of his voyage. It
did not signify that their faces were pale
the elder Eppie's from sheer quaking
before an anticipated experience so foreign
and unpalatable to her, and with the
thought of the home and children she
might never see again, if auld Tam, his
company and crew, went to the bottom, in
this unchancy autumn trip on which he
had set his heart in a strange, almost an

uncanny manner. As for the younger
Eppie, her sweet colour was gone, because
her tender heart was wrung by the injustice
and injury done to her lover, while yet she
did not dream of resisting her father  loyal
still to auld Tarn in the worst of his
caprices.

The sail was not to be very prolonged or
to involve further risk than could not be
avoided in a change of weather with the
squally gusts concentrated in the passes
between the mountains, which sometimes
lend a peculiar peril to such coast-sailing.
For auld Tarn meant merely to run up one
or other of the aims of the sea with which
all the dwellers in the region are familiar,
to lie to in the shadow of the everlasting
hills each night, and resume his course on
the following morning.

There was no sign of any fall of the
barometer or chopping of the wind, which
was in fact too light, with no more than a
harmless ripple on the water, when the
little freight started from the pier at

Greenock, to which the carriage and steamboat
had transported them, leaving behind
a disconsolate group of persons, who had
insisted on accompanying their friends sofar,
looking wistfully after them. The
least affected of the group were Claribel
and Eneas Mackinnon, who had ventured
unrebuked, unless by his own unaccounted-for
success, to make himself one of the
family. They were neither of them overburdened
with imagination, and they had
enough of business of their own on their
hands to occupy them. He contented
himself with observing on the cut of the
yacht and calculating the rate of her speed ;
and Clary's moan was summed up in declaring
that really her mother and Eppie
had no excuse for being ill. Then the
couple dropped the subject for others
more interesting to them, as they moved
away, he sauntering by her side, in the
probable style of their progress through
life.

But young Tarn muttered discontentedly

1 cannot tell what has come over my father
  a yacht trip in October, and my mother
and Eppie frightened out of their wits if
the sails fill or the deck inclines a quarter
of an inch.'

Sir Hugo said nothing. He was haunted
with the vision of an old picture he had
seen abroad of the Virgin Mary, her mother
St. Anne, and St. Joseph, sailing away on
a shoreless sea, and with the echo of the
refrain of one of young Eppie's saddest

songs 

Ochone ! for fair Helen, ochone !
Ochone ! for the flower of Stratlico :

In the deep, deep sea.

In the saut, saut bree,
Lord Koch, thy Helen lies low !'

Sir Hugo had to put the greatest force
upon himself to resist rushing off, securing
another yacht, and following in the wake of
the Dry sd ales. He had just enough
judgment left to recognise that no measure
would so offend and outrage auld Tarn as
the invasion of his privacy to which the
young man was tempted.

In reality no such tremendous calamity
as the shipwreck or foundering of the yacht
threatened auld Tarn and his faithful
womankind. The little vessel was as good
and serviceable as any Clyde-built craft
which has an honourable reputation. The
skipper and crew were picked men of their
class, to be depended upon in all circumstances.
The weather continued uninterruptedly
fine, so as to soothe the excitable
feelings even of the two Eppies.

 Oh, it is bonnie, mother ; I never knew
it would be so bonnie !' said young Eppie,
standing, without tottering, in her dark
serge costume, with only her cheeks, rosy
once more, to relieve it, as she watched the
blue water over which the yacht rode
lightly, and the autumn-tinted hills and
woods of the shore.  If it is all like this,
I don't think we'll be feared, and it will bea
fine change for father from the Haugh
and Glasgow.'

Bairn, I never saw sic weather in
October said her mother, still inclined to

be awed, if not appalled. ' It is just a
ferlie [marvel]. Eh ! how gude it will
be for the penalties digging' and pittin'. If
your father had only ta'en a thocht of
driving over to my auld hame  though it
is in the hands of strangers now  and of
biding' a day or twa, to watch the farm folk
at their work, or to fish in the burn, I
could have baked scones sic as he was fond
o' lang syne to give him an appetite. But
as you say, if the water is nae war than
this, it will be a fine change, and it may do
him a heap of gude ; poor child, he has
been forgotten [over worked], as he kens
best, of late !'

Auld Tam did not seem to reap immediate
advantage from the variety he had
sought. He was still engrossed and oppressed,
and paced up and down, taking
little notice of his wife and daughter. But
as the hours wore on, and the breeze 
though it was no more than a summer
breeze  blew fresher, the wavelets curled
with a whiter crest, and the thickly-populated

banks gave place to lonelier,
wilder regions, where the woods of Finnart
embowered the hamlet of Ardently, and
higher and higher rose the heathery hills,
showing nothing but sheep-tracks and the
furrows worn by winter torrents, till the
great mass of the Cobbler loomed dark
against the early sunset, auld Tam shook
himself up, as if the wind and the water
were blowing away the cobwebs from his
brain. He took note of each well-known
landmark, and pointed it out carefully to
his companions  not so familiar with the
scene. He told them the stories he had
heard in his boyhood  how the Danes had
landed there ; and here the clan Macfarlane
had shouted their slogan ' Lochsloy ! Loch-slow
!' when they started to levy blackmail
and plunder and murder whoever
resisted them. He cheered the Eppies
with prophecies of the settled nature of the
weather  more to be depended on than in
early summer  which would last their trip.
He foretold how quietly the yacht would

lie off Arrochar till morning broke. He
incited the ladies to have an informal
scrambling meal  a sort of tea, dinner, and
sapper in one  of roast fowl and cold round,
ham and tongue, partridges, cheese, and
oysters, with bitter beer, claret and Glen-lovat,
tea and coffee, toast and cake, grapes
and melons, eaten and drunk on deck.
Tam Drjsdale waited on his wife and
daughter in spite of their remonstrances,
as if he were proud to be their servant ;
and he did not forget the shy, independent
sailors who drew off from Witnessing the
feast, and could only be induced by an
instantly established freemasonry of jokes
and grins between auld Tam and the crew,
and gentle solicitations from the two gentlewomen
of whom the men were taking
care, to accept a share of the good things
lavishly provided for the occasion.

Auld Tam was himself again, and the
two Eppies could not help being glad,
though night was falling, and though they
had still the fearful experience before them

VOL. III. 55

of descending to their cabin and 'oinif to
bed rocked on the bosom of the deep. In
the meantime the moon and star light shone
white over Arrochar, causing the mountains
to throw blacker shadows, and the twinkling
lamps of the village to look red and
yellow, and the water between to glisten
with a trembling radiance. The stillness,
now that the yacht had stopped sailing,
acquired something of mystery, like everything
else in the unwonted surroundings.
It was a clear, cold night, frosty indeed,
but there was no fog, and the air was so
pure and rare that it was not unpleasant to
meet it, enveloped in the multitude of
laps '  cloaks and plaids, hoods and
clouds  with which Mrs. Drysdale had
taken care to come provided. The women
stayed on deck, impressed, as these simple
souls had not expected to be, by the new
world around them.

The elder Eppie kept close to her Tam,
felt as if they were one again, and was
wonderfully content to sit by him while he

smoked in silence, or occasionally uttered a
brief word of admiration, for auld Tarn was
a great admirer of nature in an old-fashioned,
solemnized style.

The younger Eppie drew away by herself.
She sat a little behind the mast, and
looked up with great innocent eyes at the
lustrous moon, asking herself if he were
looking at it as she was, and knowing that
he must, for she was sure that he was
watching every turn of the weathercock
and every cloud in the sky till she was safe
on land again. She wished he were there,
but she felt they would not be long apart,
for her father must relent, and then Sir
Hugo would not grudge her for these few
days to him. And oh ! she would try to
be good to her man, as she tried to be good
to her father and mother, and God would
bless them and take care of them for evermore.
As little Eppie gazed across the
moonlit waters, a strange transformation
took place. She ceased to see the dim
mountains looming around her, the dark

552

loch at her feet, the planks and ropes of
the yacht close at hand. She beheld, what
her bodily eyes had never rested upon, but
what she had heard often described with
love's eloquence. She saw the rich foliage
of a double row of spreading lime trees ina
green park, the low square tower of a
Norman church rising above the mossy
park-wall on one side, and a red house, all
motioned windows and peaked gables, with
flower-beds and an ancient fountain and
sundial on a terrace. And she knew it was
his English home on which the same moon
was shining as it might shine when the
home was hers also, when she had quitted
Scotland and the west, and he was teaching
her to be such a lady as his mother was.
Lady Willoughby was grander in her soft
unconscious dignity than stately Clary or
restless Lady Semple. Yet Lady Willoughby
had taken Eppie's flowers and
stooped and kissed her, nd, Eppie knew,
had received her, for Lady Willoughby 's
son's sake, into a second mother's heart,

true and tender as Eppie's own mother s.
Had the girl not reason to be grateful ?

The morning rose with a more silvery
haze than if the season had been summer,
though during the night that had passed
the frost had laid fiery fingers on what was
left of the heather, on the leaves of the
sapling oaks and the light tresses of the
birk-trees  only the dark-green firs, like
the hills above them, defied cold, heat,
storm, sunshine.

The hours of sleep might have been
dreamful and restless, spent so far from
home, where everything was so out of gear,
as even the most luxurious yacht's cabin
appeared to the dwellers in Drysdale Hall;
but nothing save refreshment could come
from the caller air, the sparkling water, the
mist like curdled milk, or flakes of wool
drawn back and up into the highest recesses
of the hills. Mrs. Eppie had another and a
lower source of happiness by which maiden
Eppie was not altogether unmoved  not
only were they miraculously escaping the

SAINT MUNG6S CITY,

pandemonium of sea-sickness which they
had braved like two heroines for the love
of auld Tarn, half a day and a night of the
pilgrimage were gone, and they were so
much nearer to home and Sir Hugo.

The opening into another loch with an
island and a ruined castle was passed, and
the Kyle between Bute and Coal were
entered. The October sun streamed down
mellow, not wan as yet, on crags and knolls,
grey pinnacles, ferny dells and bickering
burns, on Contraire and Tighnabruaich,
deserted by their summer visitors, left to
hardy fishers and herdsmen. Ardlamont
Point was turned and Kilbrandon Sound
reached, leaving Target with its tower,
and Ardrishaig with its early steamboat
behind. Lochfyne presented a noble landlocked
water, bearing in the season fleets of
brown herring-boats swaying witli the tide.
On its shores, glens, valleys, and mountains
succeeded each other. Here was the glen
of the Leakan ; yonder flashed the waters
of the Bray and the Shire ; that peaked

bill was Dunaquoich, and in its shelter rose
the castle of MCallummore.

Auld Tarn was peaceful as the weather,
pleased as his companions. He coaxed the
two Eppies into a small boat, to undergo
the penance of being rowed up a minor
water to the shore where the channel was
narrowest ; and the bank he chose offered
nothing' but shelving rock, rough oTass,
bracken and blackberries, curlews and
plovers with their shrill, ear-piercing cries.
Perhaps the place was seen more in character
when autumn was beginning to add to
the natural desolation of the scenery, than
in spring or summer.

Tam Drysdale rewarded his companions
for their submission to his fancies by letting
them sit down and look at sea and sky,
all bright and olad in contrast to the earth,
and at the acht reflected in the blue water;
or to scramble till even the youngest scramble's
light feet were tired.

The solitude and the stillness sank into
minds unaccustomed but not irresponsive to

such influences, and first thrilled the guileless
hearts through and through, and then
calmed their throbbing pulses.

As young Eppie sought to pluck the last
red ling, singed by the nightly pinches of
frost, over which the bees, safe in their
banks until the summer returned, had
ceased to hover, with the Unoferinof tufts
of thrift or sea-pink whitening under the
salt spray by the water's edge, she kept
humming 

Lowland lassie, will you go
Whaup the hills are clad wi' snow ;
Whaup, beyond yon icy steep.
The Highland shepherd tends his sheep V

and pointed exultingly to the farthest-away
mountain which had white streaks across
its bald front. But if she had known it,
these signs which she took to be the harbingers
of approaching winter had survived
all the summer sunshine, and were no more
like the glorious but ghastly livery of the
death of the year than the little streamlet
issuing from the well-eye is like the great

river hurrying to the edge of the precipice
and leaping fiercely to destruction before
it loses itself in the islanders sea.

Everything looks auld, auld, and yet as
fresh as on the dav of creation,' said the elder
Eppie, while the three figures, like the three
cries to which auld Tarn compared them,
perched themselves on some stones and appeared
the only moving, breathing objects
in the landscape. ' Tam, it's like being
alone in the presence of ane's Maker.'

Yet the boat is in sight and fishinof-
cobles foreland the next minute a steamer
full of the world's racket may come tearing
thrush the water, leavings a honos wreath of
black smoke filing [defiling] the blue lift
[air]. There are far loner spots than this
within a day's sail, if it had been fit to
venture there with timorous women so far
on in the year. But this may serve,' said
Tam, half-absently and with a sigh  * this
taste of the world as God made it. What
do you think, Eppie, woman ? It's grand
in its very nakedness, and on few lines, like

2l His work  nothing* weak or over sat and
fine and dilettante about it. It mak's us
ashamed of the feck [most] of our work.
What do you think ? We could strip ourselves
of our works, as the preachers call
them, in His sight, and lay them down and
leave them without breaking our hearts.
What do you think ?' he kept repeating
eagerly.

You're right, Tam, no doubt said his
wife gently, bat with only the most superficial
oruess at his meanings We brocht
nothing into the world, and we'll tak'
nothing out  that's plain. And all our
bravery that we set sic store on is no more
than bairns' toys that the bairns are broadest
I keen] on for a day and forget the next.'

Men's praise among the lave chimed in
Tam.

Ay, men's praise or blame will fa' dead
where there are nae lugs [ears] greedy to
kep it. But are you no weel, Tam, my
man,' asked Eppie anxiously,  that you
speak in so serious a strain V

Oh, I'm weel enough said Tarn, stretching
the arms which were still brawny.  But
I was wondering, Eppie, my joe, how you
would like if we had to go back to the
beginning and commence afresh, as we did
sax-and-twenty years syne, with a room or
twa, and no so muckle as a servant lass; only
me to earn our daily bread, and only you to
keep the house right, and spend my wages.'

Fine, Tam, I would like it  real fine !'
exclaimed Eppie, with honest readiness and
gladness. ' I dinua pretend that I'm as
soothe as when I was young, or that I
would not miss mony a thing, for ane soon
learns ill lessons ; but to have you all to
myself' again  to cook for you, to mend for
you, and to keep all right and tight for you
without any help  I could do it as well as
ever, and proud to do it, my lad I It would
make up for a gude wheen losses.'

And the husband and wife looked into
each other's faithful eyes, grasped each
other's honest hands, and he knew that she
spoke no more than the truth. Each was

dear as ever to the other, and so long as
the one treasure was left, ail else might go,
without too bitter lamentation.

Young Eppie had been listening in respectful
silence to what she, like her mother,
judged too grave talk to be lightly dealt
with. But now she spoke up with something
like a pout :

And what is to become of me when you
two are going to set up house again by your
two selves, wanting nobody else to interfere
and upset you ? Father, mother, I'm here.
You seem to have forgotten my very existence.
I must say it is not very kind of
you.'

The girl spoke more than half in jest,
and yet there was a little soreness in her
merry tones. The old ties which had been
strong as death were loosening from her ;
but it smote her that they should drop fj'om
her in this fashion  that her father and
mother should speak of the future even in
the lightest imagination, and leave her out of
count. She had not expected it from them.

It was not what he would have done  he
who was above her in rank, and had been
used to grand ladies ; he could never draw
a picture of his coming life in which she
was not in the foreground.

Never fear, bairn,' said auld Tarn tenderly
; ' where there are father and mother
the bairns can never be forgotten  never 
even when they've grown to men and women's
estate, are heads of houses of their
ain, and have flown far from the parent
nest. But I've a question to speer of you,
too, young Eppie ;' and he drew her nearer
to him, and made her look into his face.
What if all this speak of a grand lad and
a title, and a Court and what not, come to
nothing some fine morning, after all ? Will
you blame your father ? Will you never
smile in his face again ? Will you and he
never more be happy together, as you were
before V

Tam, Tarn ! ye're train' the bairn ; she's
over young to answer such questions 
though maybe you've a right to judge for

her, since she's under age, if so be you can
show a reasonable warrant for your judgments
and she'll submit to your lawful
authority when she can ; for she's not dour
[obstinate] or contumacious [refractory].
She's your ain loving, obedient little lass-but
how can you, man ? Would you
plague her as gin she were a patient Grizel
and you were a rain' tyrant ? You've no
right  I will not have it, though I am
your wife  it's fair cruelty, Tam.'

In truth, little Eppie had grown white
and cold, and was trembling in every limb.
At last she said in a low choked voice,
looking down and plucking nervously at
the bent grass :

Why are you so thrawn [cross] to him,
father % He never harmed sou. He hasa
great liking and respect for you, though
you're not like his people. Is it just
because he likes me that you are so
unkind '?'

Bairn  it will not rest with me,' said
Tam, with something like a smothered

groan. ' It is supposing Sir Hugie draws
back, and will have no more to say to
you.'

He will not draw back broke in young
Eppie, holding her head high, and with a
rush of colour back into her white cheeks.
'He'll never be forsworn, whatever happens.
You may make me give him up, but Sir
Hugo will never give me up.'

 Not with his will, I dour sav,' granted
Tarn, ' or the loon [fellow], though he were
a lord, would not be worth a boast [cough].
But my gentleman may be overborne, high-hearted
as he is  I'll not deny it. Boots
may row so that he cannot control them.
He has his mither and his factor to answer
to : a young laird is after sir hidden down
by his factor, and no doubt so is an English
squire, though he has a '*' Sir " before his
name, by his agent, who stands for his factor.
The young man has his credit with his billies
[contemporaries] and the inheritance he
has to hand down to the next generation
to hamper him. Oh, there are mony things

to consider that young folk cinna tak' in
at a glance and minna believe can weigh
against love itself.'

I cinna believe it !' exclaimed auld
Eppie indignantly.  Diana heed hin, my
lamb !' she said rebelliously. ' He's no in
earnest, though why he should tak' to sic
ill joking in this wild part, I canna tell.
He's no himsel'. This sail in the could
has been over hard upon him, that sits so
lon2f in a hot office  that's what it is. Come
back to the boat, Tam, like a man ; and let's
hoist sail and hurry hame, and see the
doctor in the bygaun.'

But he paid no attention to his wife.
He went on like a man in earnest, and a
hale man still, determined to ply his
daughter with an imaginary case :

Sir Hugie is no a reckless callant of a
ne'er-do-weel to care only for his ain will
and pleasure, and he is not just free to
make his choice like a common man. He's
like a young prince, bound to think on the
interests of others. He may be brocht to

see  to fancy he sees that it will be best
for you and him to parts

Little Eppie sat motionless with her
hands locked together in her lap, while the
contention between these two who loved
her, and whom she loved so well, passed
over her head. The eerie October wind
and the sad sea waves seemed to sigh and
sob an accompaniment to the strange incomprehensible
argument.

Then, father,' she said, with a break in
her soft voice, and a far-away look of
misery in her gentle eyes, ' we i'll part.
If you and he agree that we ought, what
have I to say ? What am I, that I should
stand up against him and you ? We'll do
what is right, and God help us all !'

Hand your tongue this minute, Eppie !'
cried her mother. * There's no call for you
to say such words. Make no rash promises.
Oh ! it is no fair to bring the bairn here to
a place so lonesome that one might commit
a murder and it would never be found
out till the day of doom, where there's name

VOL. III. 56

but me to interfere between you, and speak
her round and break her heart, and get her
to give up her lad  a grand lad and a gude
lad. You that were so fond o' little Eppie,
Tarn. You maun have taken leave of your
senses  you maun be fey, if ever man was
Never, gude wife,' said auld Tarn
gruffly, in order to hide a little tremulousness
in his own accents. ' You might trust
me, woman, at this time of the day. It's
all fair, and will soon be boon-board. As
for you, my bairn, that last word was
spoken like my gude little lass, and is a
help to her father, as she will like to hear
and to think long after he's laid in the
fools. It's God's truth as weel. We'll
do what's right an' shame the devil, and
trust to the Powers boon, who made faith
the city and the solitary places, for the
rest. There, think nae mair of what I've
been saying. I've been trying you faith,
as mother says, and thank God you've
neither of you been found wanting, which
is nae mair than I looked for, though it's

far mair than a sinful' man deserves. Let's
be happy when we can,' cried auld Tarn, a
little incoherently. * What would you say,
little Eppie, to a race over the states or
among the bent % No % Then we'll just
take our time  it's all our ain the day 
and thunder down to the sma'-boat and
row back to the yacht with a gude appetite
for the next meal. What will you wager
that IVe not forgotten in this ploy of idle-set
[idleness] whether it's luncheon, dinner,
or supper ? Never mind ; it will be welcome,
whatever.'

The women were not so easily set at
rest. They were disturbed and dum-foundered;
but auld Tarn recovered so
entirely from the agitation he had shown,
he was so much more at his ease from
that minute, so resolutely calm and cheerful,
that the two Eppies could not help
regaining their spirits  though they did
not forget  and being as happy once more
as the sea and the dread of storms would
let them.

56-2

The next day was the last day of the
trip, and as it was also Sunday, auld Tam,
like a reverent Scotchman of the old
school, the member of a kirk and a regular
attender at the same, caused his vessel to
lie-to in a safe anchorage, went ashore in
the morning with his party, and walked
to the most primitive of parish churches,
where he worshipped with his fellow-men.
The afternoon was grey', but still calm and
quiet. The family group gathered on the
deck once more.

Auld Tam made little Eppie read  a
lesson' out of her Testament, as she had
done every Sunday when she first began
to read, to her father and mother, who had
listened with pleased attention and secret
admiration that did not prevent their being
ready with a homely correction whenever
she mispronounced a word. The childish
voice had sounded as if it came from a
cherub oracle, uttering, without comprehension,
in a clear, unfaltering treble,
awful words of everlasting moment. The

girlish tones were deeper, and had more
rising and falling meaning in them ; but
they were almost as unconscious, with no
subtle undercurrent of reflection, as the
reader, on this October afternoon, chose
for a lesson the history of Jonah, the
secret sinner who concealed his superior
knowledge, kept back his heaven-sent
tidings, and imperilled by his guilty
presence an innocent ship's crew.

He came to his senses, and spoke out
like a man at last,' was auld Tarn's single
comment on the reading, uttered as if the
final atonement afforded him great satisfaction.


Then he made young Eppie sing two of
the old Scotch psalms. One of them 'Was
The Lord's my Shepherd,' with its broad
distinctions and wide stretches  from
death's dark vale, where the Almighty's
rod and staff are the sole stay for the forlorn
wayfarer, to the sumptuous earthly
table furnished in the presence of his
human foes, with the kingly oil and the

overflowing cup anointing and confirming
him as a prince and ruler over his fellows.

Tam, like most Scotchmen of his generation,
had said that psalm when a child
at his mother s knee.

The other psalm he and his wife had
sung together in the congregation on many
a peaceful Sunday, but never with such
vivid realization as now, when they heard
it in the amphitheatre of mountains :

I to the hills will lift mine eyes,
From whence doth come mine aid.'

As young Eppie sang ' with grave, sweet
melody' the solemn, familiar words, the
skipper and his men in their Sunday
clothes hanging about the deck, and putting
a touch now and then to the tackle,
which, like a living creature, must be seen
to Sunday and Saturday, paused to listen,
and took their snipes out of their mouths as
if to hear better, though they were too
blate [bashful] to draw nearer, or make any
other sign of appreciation :

Behold He that keeps Israel,
He slumbers not nor sleeps.'

No more than these giant sentries, hemming
in and protecting the great loch, with
nothing hidden there that should not be
revealed, and nothing really to fear from a
brave revelation.

Ay, the hills are grand said Tam emphatically.
' Grand, like truth itself'. No
mortal lee, or prides' conceit, or blind
self-deception, \yill lift up its head before
them. I verily believe they're the tabernacle
of the Almighty

Certainly there was, while he spoke, a
light as from a divine sanctuary on Tam
Drysdale's face, which had grown so grey
and lined of late. The lio-ht still lino-red
upon ifc when he landed in common day
with his womankind at Greenock on the
morrow, and was met by the same friends
who had escorted him on board, with congratulations
on his prosperous trip, to
which he responded cordially.

Nevertheless auld Tam continued to

hold off Sir Hugo  not angrily or sternly
rather with a half-authoritative, half-deprecating
manner, that seemed to say,
Not yet. Sir Hugie ; wait a little longer,
my fine young gentleman, till you see and
hear everything

THE LAST OF RORY OF THE SHELTIES  DR.
PETER ON THE SCENT.

He's gave, and nae mistake, pair lad,
said Sandy Macnab, respectful for once,
and also for once deficient in his constitutional
volubility.

He stood with Dr. Peter Murray by a
box-bed far from tidy, but not deficient in
the ordinary comforts of a bed of its class,
while over the rest of the bedclothes was
thrown a tartan plaid. Beneath the covering,
with the head and chest exposed, lay
the worn, breathless body of Tory of the
Shelties, from which life had just departed.


The locality was no remote shieling in

North Uist, but Bawby Sed's house in a
street off the Gallowgate of Glasgow.
Bawby herself, with the effusiveness of
her nature and race, was rocking to and
fro, and wailing, with an apron thrown
over her head, as if it were her man
Andry and her whole numerous family
that had been taken from her, instead of
a half-witted Highland  gangrel ' (tramp)
who was nobody's body, With whom she
had been accidentally and temporarily associated,
not greatly to her profit or pleasure.
The time was yet so early in the morning
that the November daylight was still
only struggling with a tallow candle burning
down and guttering in the socket.
The fact that the daily life of Glasgow
was not far advanced accounted for the
comparative privacy and stillness of
Bawby's dwelling. The husband and
elder children had set forth to their work,
and the younger fry had not begun to stir.
No visitor was yet ready to drop in, while
the old woman who had shared with the

mistress of the house the last night-watch
by the sick man, had gone out for more
assistance to perform with due ceremony,
such as Bawby would not on any account
have neglected, the office of * striking the
Corp.'

There's nothing to be done, as you say,
Sandy remarked Dr. Peter, failing to reproach
Sir James Semple's man, who had
rushed out to Barley Biggs in the small
hours for the doctor, and dragged him into
Glasgow, where medical men abounded,
and there was a special practitioner told
off for the wants of the poor in the parish
in question.

I thocht, as he had been your patient
since, doctor, you would like to see the
last of him said Sandy confidentially.

Well, if it is any comfort to you and
the honest woman that I am here, that is
something, since I can be of no use to
him,' said Dr. Peter resignedly. ' But
what was the poor creature doing here,
Macnab ? I thought he went back to his

SAINT MUNGO'S CITY.

part of the country, after he was put out
of Gartnavel  three  no, I'll be bound it
is nearer five months ago.'

'That's just the way of it, sir,' said
Sandy, a little confused, but without proceeding
to explain how the contradiction
came about. Then he turned with some
impatience to his lamenting countrywoman.
I wish you would haud your wisest,
Bawby ; you will be enough to drive a man
doited, with your bubbling' and greeting' !'

Oh, the pair lad !' went on Bawby,
with unabated energy, behind her apron ;
and I thocht when I saw him first that
he would bring me word of the auld man
M'Leish, you ken  that befriended me
when I was a motherless bairn, and, instead,
the lad's ain friends will be wondering
what has become of him this day 
ochone ! ochone T

If you would only listen to reason,
woman, before you're in the cities
[hysterics,' remonstrated Sandy ; * what
friends is he likely to have, a wasp of a

natural  that I should say sic a word and
him no could  weel on for forty ? They
will think theirs's weel quit o' him, I
doubt ; forbye, he spoke of no friends
save his granny  and she, if she were to
the fore, would be weel on to a hunter,
over auld and could to care for oct but
the keeping' in o' her ain wee glimmer of
life and heat. He cared mair for his bit
bowie, when it had the papers intil't, than
for a' the friends that ever had the misfortune
to own him. As for Ballachulish and
auld M'Leish  are you as daft as he was ?
How could a man from the islands bring
you word of what was done on the mainland
?'

Why did he not go back to his island,
and where is the box that he set such store
on ?' inquired Dr. Peter.

He was not a suspicious man, nor was
he inclined to believe that a man in Sandy
Macnab's position, with a place and a character
to lose, would be likely to risk them
for what, after all, must have been a small

temptation. Still the listener did not quite
like the aspect of affairs.

'That's just what it is, sir Sandy repeated
his vague formula, looking yet more
embarrassed. Then the man seemed to
take a sudden determination, and resolve
on a free confession. ' Losh ! I'll tell you
a' about it. I haven been so far to blame,
nor has Bawby here, that we should beat
about the buss [bush], and think shame,
and maybe called in question for what we
never did or thocht to do. It was not my
blame that Mr. Drysdale would give me
speech o' him, or he might have kenned
lang syne that the pair sorry Tory was
not ais the carpet, but was lying here getting
war and war, and failing illa day,
till he was as gude as in the death-thraw
[death-struggle]. Nicol Macnicol would
have nothing to say to sic a carry onboard
his boat. It would have turned the
stomachs of all the fine gentry to see or
hear tell of a seeing beggar on the same
planks with them.'

It was to give the crater a bit treat
out of his note that we keepit him at first
mourned the more ingenuous Bawby. ' He
had never seen Glasgy afore ; and then
when he took a turn and fell ill again, and
could be lifted, I could cast him out
like a dug, you ken. I'm sure I've had
fash [trouble] enough wi' my man Andry
wha's that dour, dornach [strong cloth]
is nothing to him. He threepit I might as
weel keep beggars' huggins at since. And
wha's to bury the pair silly chap that's
stiffening fast, I canna just say. Sandy
Macnab's willing to help. I've some savings
in the fit of a stocking that Andry's
never seen, or he would have them wa'
to put into a society in a jiffy  Andry is
an awful' hand at societies. But I'm willing
war [spend] a pickle on a Hielantman,
and I hope the paris will do the rest.'

I'll see to that, Mrs. Seth,' promised
Dr. Peter,  and I'll give you a certificate
for the registrar. But you've never told
me where the poor fellow got the note on

which he was to have had the treat, or
where the box is that he valued so highly.
Perhaps its contents may be of some consequence
to his friends, or may help to
defray the expenses of the funeral.'

Very like !' said Sandy Macnab, not
aware of displaying any want of feeling
by speaking in a tone of unmistakable derision.
* Yonder the kistie is / and he
pointed to the wayfarer's battered knapsack
kicked below a table, ' When it was
fu', its valuables consisted, if you'll believe
me, sir, of a wheen papers, an auld will of
ane Drysdale, and the purpose of marriage
of ane Mackinnon, faith of them, I'm
creditably informed, dead and buried mair
than a score of years syne. I cannot tell
what maggot came into Tory's head, but
I did the best for him. I got him speech
of Mr. Drysdale up at Drysdale Hall, and
it was him that, sensible gentleman though
he is, gifted Tory with the note in exchange
for the papers. I was to see him
aff the Broomielaw,' acknowledged Sandy

reluctantly, with a slight deepening of his
ruddy colour ; * but you see, sir, as Bawby
said, it seemed but right that the crater
should have a treat afore he gazed back to
the hills  the mair so that he hanna taken
in a particle of what he had seen, but was
broken on some miserable cruise in North
Uist. It seemed an awful' shame to send
him back where he cam' from, with no
more notion of the world than that. But
for all the gude that it has done to him,
and considering what has happened,' said
Sandy candidly, as he looked down regretfully
on his unfortunate countryman, lying
for ever prostrate, * we might have left him
in ignorance to thunder [saunter] hame intime
to dee there.'

Dr. Peter's whole aspect had undergone
a change while Sandy spoke. First a
startled and then a troubled look came
into the thoughtful eyes, until the whole
face fell indescribably. At last his mouth
set with a rueful determination, and he
turned away.

VOL. III. 57

By the time Dr. Peter had ridden out
to Barley Kigs he had composed his
countenance and rid himself of every trace
of disturbance. But it was a very grave,
sobered-looking man who presented himself
at Thole's breakfast-table, instead of the
cheery philosopher who was wont to take
his place there, and be the light of the
morning and of the meal.

Thole, who had parted from her father
overnight in his usual spirits, did not know
what to make of the change. She inquired
in turn for every patient she could remember,
and received no information which
could explain Dr. Peter's mood. She investigated
into his own health, and was
told, with the impatience of a man to
whom it was a contemptible trifle at that
moment, that he was perfectly well. What
should ail him ?

Then I wish, father, people would not
call you out during the night when they
might do it to as much purpose during the
day she said discontentedly, looking at

the kidney he had hardly touched. ' You
may be as strong as Hercules, but facing
the darkness and cold at your age does not
seem to improve your appetite.'

She expected him to shake himself up-and
ask jestingly how old she thought him,
and whether he was not as good yet for
night-work as any young ' swankie ' among
them. Instead, he muttered gloomily,
What did it matter % And it had happened
to be the morning and not the
night  a fine enough morning for the
season of the year  but though it had been
mirk midnight or in the thick of a snowstorm
or a thunderstorm, sickness and
sorrow, misery and shame, did not wait for
daylight and fine weather.'

Then it struck her that she had never
seen him look like that before since she
was a child, when she had a dim recollection
of the arrival of a letter which had
caused her father's face first to flush purple
and then to pale to an ashen-grey, and he
had drooped his head and not raised it,

572

but gone softly for many a day. She had
heard, years afterwards, when the penalty
had been paid twice over, and she was old
enough to understand, that one of her
brothers abroad had got into disgrace, and
their father had discharged the debt.

What is it, father '?' Thole now asked
plainly, putting her hand in his, and looking
wistfully into his face. * I am old
enough now to know, Whatever it is. Let
me bear it with you !'

He put her gently from him this time.
It is not what you think, lassie. It is
nothings with which we have to do, thank
God ! Walter is all right now, and so I
trust are Sandy, and Mary and Lizzie's
husbands. It is no secret of mine, else I
dare say I might tell it to you ; for, as you
say, you are old enough, and you have a
woman's wit to help a man in a strait what
to do next. But the tale is not mine to
tell, as I said before, and you're likely to
hear it soon enough,' he ended, with a
quick sigh.

Thole was dying to hear at once, but
she could not force the confidence which
was not his, but some other person's ; she
could only beg him not to vex himself too
much by taking other people's trials upon
him. They were not his ; he was, not
called upon to suffer heavily for them, airy
more than he was answerable for other
people's errors.

Ay,' he said sorrowfully, ' but lookers-on
have painful duties to perform sometimes.
Do you know, Athie, I have had
ere now to go to a friend  one of the
oldest and best I had  and tell him something
of which he had not the faintest
suspicion, that he had a deadly disease
upon him and his hours were numbered.
If he wanted to settle his worldly affairs
and arrange for his family, or to make his
peace with his Maker, the present moment
was the time, for the obligations of the
case admitted of no delay. I have had to
go to another friend and give him his
choice  a doubtful operation, against which

flesh and blood recoiled, or his life lost fora
certainty. Yet I would rather undertake
either of these commissions twice over,
than face what I have to do to-day.'

Her face paled in sympathy with his.
Her great grey eyes opened widely ; she
did not protest further or ply him with
remonstrances which would have been so
many subtle questions ; she stooped and
kissed him, but said no more. She watched
him go, and went about her ordinary
household duties. But all the time she
was praying silently for souls in trouble,
and that every hair of the heads of all the
family at Drysdale Hall might be kept in
safety, though the name had never been
mentioned in the conversation, and she
could not tell what evil one or all of them
had compassed, or what harm might befall
old or young in the household.

A

THE SACRIFICE.

AuLD Tam was loitering with his son on
the terrace at Drysdale Hall  a favourite
place for loiterers and smokers, weather
permitting. Though it was November, it
was that rare experience in Scotland, a St.
Martin's summer. The fields were bare,
the trees were leafless, but there was a
blue sky overhead and a pale sunshine all
around, having a pathos in it, because it
was so strange and so fleeting. The
shadows were long, and the light fell not
upon waving cornfields and rich pasture,
full foliage, the flowers of spring and
summer, or the fruit of autumn  but upon
brown earth, faded grass, the thin blades

264 SAINT Mungo CITY.

of winter wheat, and bare boughs more la
keeping with the gloom of grey clouds and
the biting breath of gales laden with stinging
sleet, for which the world was ready.
It was like an amnesty between summer
and winter, a last herald of peace before
the war of the elements, which should rage,
with interludes of sullen and hollow truce,
from Michaelmas to Candlemas and a
 bittock ' beyond.

The Dry sd ale men had returned together,
at the elder's suggestion, rather early in
the afternoon, had reported themselves to
the women, and where lino-erinof for the sunset
as if the month had been May.

Auld Tarn's eyes had taken a long range
from the bleach fields to the boundaries 
not merely of the old farm, but of such
tentacles ' or odd bits of crofts as he had
added, field by field, to his property during
the last ten years. He had pushed his
hat far back on his head, as if the brim
might have interfered with his view. He
stood now with his bios massive forehead

exposed in the sinking light illuminating
the two faces, as only the setting sun will
light them up.

It's a bonnie part,' said Tarn Drysdale,
with a long-drawn sigh from a full heart ;
a fine bit of country. I'm not sure that
mair lines of bleach fields might not be laid
out along the whole course of the Aytoun
Water, for bleaching and dyeing, even in
bad times, are more profitable by a long
chalk than farming nowadays. But the
land is not ours to do with as we like.'

Not ours ?' echoed young Tam, puzzled ;
and then, thinking that he had caught his
father's meaning,  Not all ours, of course.
We are not nearly monarchs of all we
survey. Yonder is Gray of Riotous's
offices, and Sir James's land, while all on
the other side is the Duke's. That is the
disadvantage of a wide view. If the prospect
had been sufficiently circumscribed we
might have flattered ourselves that we
possessed the earth  so much of it as our
eyes rested upon.'

But as it happens none of it is ours.
Tarn, my man said auld Tam, speaking
low and slow, as he reluctantly rose to the
task of breaking the truth to his son.

What do you mean, father ?' asked
young Tam, in fresh perplexity. ' Times
are not so bad as that comes to. I dare say
you are uneasy about the Pierrot '  referring
to a foreign firm with which Drysdale
and Son had considerable dealings that
was held in danger in these hazardous
times. ' You should know, but I am persuaded
they will pull through, and at the
worst their assets will cover a large proportion
of the loss. Then Mackinlays
have come out strong. I cannot fancy
your losing heart. Is it not late in the
day to do so ? Are there not signs  I
heard you pointing them out yourself the
other morning  that trade is on the turn,
or will be before long '?'

Young Tam spoke remonstratingly, encouragingly,
and all the time with a disturbed
wonder that he should have to do

so to his father, who stood looking at him
fixedly. The sun had gone down now, and
there was a shadow on the face which had
been ht up a moment before.

Just so, lad ; I have told others that,
and I have said the same to myself It ig
true in the main, if that were all ; but it
mak's little odds to them that are powerless
to profit by it. Tam, it's not to Pierrot'
creditors, or for any other trade obligation
that the land and the works are forfeit. It
is to that officier lad Mackinnon, who has
never done a hand's turn, or his father
before him, to deserve them.'

Young Tam stared a second longer, then
his eyes fell with his heart, and that sank
like lead. There flashed upon him with
"painful clearness and coherency, as in a
strong chain of evidence, all the unaccountable
changes in his father's behaviour lately
his sudden ageing and listlessness ; his fit
of restlessness and gaiety, especially unlike
the man ; his capricious treatment of Sir
Hugo Willoughby ; his unseasonable yacht

trip, in which he would allow no friends
except his wife and younger daughter to
accompany him. He had appeared to
come back from it better, but that very
morning Mrs. Drysdale had dropped some
words to her son which had suggested that
his father had said or done something, in
the course of their absence, that had struck
her as singular behaviour.

All pointed to one conclusion, the most
melancholy and terrible, short of the committal
of crime, that can overtake a man.

You mean,' said young Tam, speaking
on the spur of the moment, on a desperate
chance, with a sickly smile and a faltering
tongue,  that Mackinnon might have been
master here, and that he is still not unwilling
to reap some of the fruits of your
success. But there are two at a bargain -
making, if you decidedly object, which I've
sometimes doubted lately. Come, father,
we are staying out too long, considering it
is November. We shall be having my
mother out to look after us presently. She

-will appear in her cap, or young Eppie will
turn up bareheaded. The air is getting
chill since the sun went down. I think
there Avill be a touch of frost,' he finished
with a slight shiver.

Auld Tarn looked into his son's face
which had grown white within the last few
minutes, while a nameless apprehension
stared out of the scared eyes. Tam Drysdale
laughed a dry, harsh laugh, which
prompted young Tam instinctively to catch
hold of his father s arm. The grip was not
shaken off; on the contrary, it was yielded
to as part of the play, while auld Tam said
plainly :

You think I'm daft, Tam, and I could
find it in my heart to wish I were out of
my wits on ae point. For a' that, T'm as
wise as I ever was, or am ever likely to be.
I can show you paper and penned words ;
though, pair lad, you'll rue you ever set
been on them. In proof of what I've said,
c'wa' with me, Tam, to my business-room.
There's time enough, or we'll mak' time

for when the thing is to be brocht to licht
there need be no further ceremony. It's
business, Tarn, of the most serious kind,
and family hours and rules must be set
aside for what will wait for no man. If
we're detained after the dinner-hour, we'll
send and say we're engaged, and bid the
women ofo on without us.'

Young Tam followed his father full of
doubt. He asked himself, and was unable
to answer the question, whether this was
one of the cunning delusions of madness ?
He reminded himself, and hated himself
for the reminder, as if it were basely dishonourable
to auld Tam, who had been
master of the situation ever since his son
had known him, that contradiction was
forbidden in this case, that to humour and
soothe the patient was the only possible
treatment in the meantime.

But when young Tam was seated at his
father's bidding, as if for a prolonged stay
in the business-room, and saw auld Tam 
without bolting the door to-day  unlock

his desk and take out the old papers, the
new-comer felt instinctively, with a fresh
shock, that there was method in the other's
madness, and something tangible in his
father's incredible assertion.

It did not take long for young Tam to
satisfy himself of the authenticity of Gavin
Mackinnon and Margaret Craig's marriage
contract and the binding nature of its
provision for the heirs. As the young
man read for himself, the full consequences
of the settlement became instantly present
to him, and with it a keen, jarring sense
of the irony of fate. In the past he had
hastily quarrelled with his lot; he had been
displeased to find himself the son of an
employer and a rich man. He had said
often, and believed the words which he
spoke, that he doubted the righteousness
of the lawes of labour and capital and the
distribution of property  that he did not
know what to make of the power over his
fellow-men which would fall to him. It
was as if an evil genius had taken him at

his word, deprived him of position and
possessions, and freed him from responsibility.
But, alas ! in the interval which
had elapsed he had grown more than
reconciled to circumstances. He had
taken up and learned to like the calling he
was now summoned to abjure. He had
begun to build upon it a fine edifice of
hope and promise. Young Tam felt small
and silly in addition to being ruined with
his father. Would Thole Murray, who
was so quick to see inconsistencies, have
mercy upon him when she knew all ? He
had been claiming far more than mercy
at her hands within these last few happy
months  would he sue in his adversity for
what she had denied him in his prosperity?
He hardly thought so, since he too had
his pride, to which he was entitled. It
was not pity that he wanted ; he felt
to-day as if he could not brook jity, however
generous, least of all from Thole.

But young Tam had sufficient seh-
restraint and thought and feeling for

others to recognise that this was not the
moment for personal regrets, let them be
ever so sharp.

When did you come upon this deed,
father ?' the young man asked, speaking
with unconscious stiffness, which sounded
like sternness.

Auld Tam had been standing by the
window with his back to his son as he
read. Tam Drysdale turned and looked
imploringly in the face of his questioner.

Upon my soul, Tam,' he said solemnly,
 I only came upon the contract by pure
accident, two months syne. You will
believe me, and I can bring testimony to
silence the world if it misdoubt me, which
is like enough, on that head. But that
does not clear me of wite [blame]. I oct
to have had common prudence ; I should
not have been a hot-headed full ; I oct
not to have run the risk of sic a hidden
mine being sprung on you and me

It was an oversight,' said young Tam,
with generosity in his very bluntness.
VOL. iir. h?

It might have happened to anybody. It
cannot be helped.'

No great time has been lost since the
paper was brocht to me  V\\ tell you how-some
other day,' continued auld Tam, still
with shamefacedness and deprecation. ' I
would have spoken sooner, but I had to
battle with the temptation to remain forever
dumb. Oh, laddie, you cinna ken
what it has been !' he exclaimed passionately.
' If only truth and honesty could
have let me carry the story to the grave,
and spare you and the lave [rest] !'

Young Tam got up and wrung his
father's hand.

Never mind-us, father ; we'll do well
enough. We owe you a good education
and an honest example.'

Thanks to you, Tam, for that word,'
said his father gratefully.

I little thocht,' he began again ruefully,
when I did my best to beguile you into
the business, what a burden I was binding
on your shoulders. A muckle concern

that has broken down and will never be
built up again means enough saith [injury]
and scorn to stick to you for life, with
your feet catched in a net from which
they'll never work these's free

Better 'young shoulders than old to lift
the load,' said auld Tarn's son loyally;
and it will be a mess indeed from which
I shall not, with you to help me, emerge
in time. You do not give me half credit
though you've said as much in words,
when it comes to the rub  for having
developed some of your business faculty.
But this discovery must be seen to immediately,'
broke off young Tam, with a
sort of brisk severity that had a faint
flavour of Dr. Peter in it. ' I suppose
Black and Fettes,' naming his father's
lawyers, ' had better be spoken to before
Mackinnon is told. I don't know much of
him. He is not my style of man. I
confess I have never seen much in him,
either good or bad, and 1 don't fancy there
is much to see ; but people seem to think

582

he is a nice enough fellow, so far as he
goes. He may take into account how
hard this is for you, and how little you
were to blame said young Tam, with a
return of the hope which belongs to youth
and comes back with a swiftness of rebound
in proportion to the violence of the
blow that has laid confidence low. ' 
may be willing to come to terms
were it only to grant us time. Besides
' young Tam paused. He had

the reluctance to speak on the subject
which a young man will show to an elder,
which the best brothers display when it is
their sisters' affairs that are about to be
discussed. ' You must have seen for sometime,
father,' he went on awkwardly, * that
Mackinnon is sweet on Clary.'

Or on what he tak's to be her silver,'
said auld Tam sarcastically.

I believe that he is attached to her, and
that she returns the attachment,' asserted
young Tam.

And you would have us seek to ride out

of our difficulties on the attachment, as you
call it, of twa young rules T said auld Tarn,
in a mortified voice. * Weel, I did think
to make it up to the young felly in that
way; but then he was not to ken  nobody
was to ken. I never thocht to be
indebted for grace to my doctors' lauds
[lovers.'

No, you would have had it all the other
way,' remarked young Tam, unable to restrain
a smile in spite of the gravity of the
situation. * I would not have you take
advantage of anybody  I'm sure you know
that  and I would have it all plain and
above-board. Lay everything before him ;
but do not refuse to let him be just, or
even generous. One can stand a man's
generosity, if it is in the beggar. Do as
you would be done by.'

I dour say you're right, Tam,' granted
auld Tam, not without a lurking profound
admiration for his son's moderation and
good judgment, as well as for his rectitude.
Indeed I have no manner of doubt you

are. You see what it is to bring a young
head to reason out a thing. There are
cases where the young are mair reasonable
and liberal than the auld. But it is queer,'
he added, musing, * to be beholden to Gavin
Mackinnon's son  to gang cap in hand and
beg his forbearance.'

That is not the way to put it,' objected
young Tarn ; but he missed the opportunity
of putting it in any other way, for at that
moment a servant knocked and handed in
Eneas Mackinnon's card.

Father and son looked at each other
with honest eyes, that yet had a cloud of
confusion in them as of two conspirators
caught in the act.

Had he found it all out ? Who had told
him ? Had Sandy Macnab betrayed the
little he knew % Were the Drysdales to be
deprived of the grace of coming forward
and producing the deed in his favour, of
which nobody except themselves knew,
which had been for some time in their
hands, so that the possessors might have

destroyed it any day, but which they were
now prepared to bring to light ?

Auld Tarn was the first to recover from
this additional misfortune, and to anticipate
and demolish any plan his son might have
made for parleying  admitting nothing and
denying nothing till Black and Fettes'
advice was given.

Let him come on said Tam Drysdale
sturdily, with something of his old hardy
independence and dash of pugnacity, now
that he had made a clean breast of it to his
son. ' If I have done him wrong, I have
done you and myself a handle mair, and
we're willing to mak' reparation to our last
shilling

But the moment Eneas entered it was
clear that his intentions were of the most
pacific description  that he was the more
agitated of the two sides, and in a sense the
more humbled  that he had come to ask
and not to grant grace.

In truth, the Lieutenant had at last
screwed up his courage to put an end to

the state of wretched suspense and perplexity
in which he had been Having  to
propose for Claribel iDrysdale to her father,
knowing all the time with the most excruciating
matter-of-factness of conviction, how
little the proposal was worth in a mercenary
light.

It was a proof of the pitch to which
Eneas's nerves were strung that the circumstance
of auld Tam's not beinor alone,
but in the company of his son, in place of
affording the suitor a welcome if somewhat
cowardly excuse to defer the cruel ordeal of
the suit to another day, only spurred him
on to take the leap from which there was
no returning. The desperateness of the
position lent the ' heavy swell ' calmness, so
that it was with a certain dignity approaching
to haughtiness that Eneas began, after
an ordinary preamble on the weather :

If you will allow me a few words,
Mr. Drysdale  I shall not detain you long.
I have admired Miss Drjsdale ever since I
knew her, though I was aware *

Here he was summarily interrupted.
Many a time had Eneas Mackinnon pictured
to himself, with all the anguish of a
shy, proud man, the details of that interview.
How the rich, self-made man whom
Eneas coveted for his father-in-law, to
whose homespunness the wooer was fully
alive, whom he could not acquit of unvarnished
purse-pride, would, in spite of the
recent alteration in his behaviour, and notwithstanding
all Claribel had said in her
father's defence, meet the advances of the
penniless lover with unbearable scorn and
contumely.

But Eneas had never gone so far as to
imagine that he would be peremptorily
"estopped in his little speech with * Not
another word, sir ! I will not hear another
word I' or that young Tam, who knew the
world, was college-bred, and like other
people, except that he had the reputation
of being a Radical, should instantly back
his father with an imperative 'Yes, ,
for your own sake, for all our sakes,

be silent till you know what you are
about.'

Eneas Mackinnon got up from the chair
which had been offered to him.

If you will not so much as hear what
I have to say, there is indeed nothing to
be done,' he said, roused to indignation by
the incredible treatment he was receiving.
'But you will pardon me if I tell you that
I think a little courtesy is due to a gentleman
and an officer in her Majesty's service,
Who has done nothing to disgrace his birth
and position, though he is a poor man. I
owe it also both to myself and to Miss
Drysdale, who I am certain would not
thank me for any reserve on this point, tolet
you know that it is not without warrant
from her '

Hand your tongue, you devil, when
you're tellers cried auld Tarn still more
vehemently and unceremoniously, * or it
will be the war for you I Can you not
tak' a hint ? Will you not let us leave
you the freedom of choice till you hear all X

Eneas was confounded and disgusted.
He was fain to hide his discomfiture and
escape from further outrage. He could
only make a slight bow, which was a tacit
relinquishment of all future intercourse
with Claribel Drysdale's father and brother
dear as she was to him  and move to the
door. But Tam Drysdale was again before
him.

Ne'er a fit shall you steer till you listen
to my story, since you've come in at the
nick of time with yours. I'll tak' Black
and Fettes into my ain hands, Tam, or see
them hanged ! but Lieutenant Mackinnon
shall ken what he's about, before he's an
hour alder. He'll not come here any
longer courting' an' speer' Clary, without
first hearing what her father has cost him 
unawares, sir  unawares. Let him see the
contract, Tam, and then we'll hear whether
he sings to a different tune.'

'Don't misjudge us, Mackinnon,' said
young Tam apologetically. ' My father
has been very much put about lately, and,

I can tell you, so may everybody be when
all is known. But if you will look at this
paper you will see that it is in your interest,
and to prevent your prejudicing it, in ignorance
of what you are doing, that we are
acting in this manner

Do you ken the deed, Mr. Mackinnon V
asked auld Tarn a little more composedly,
but yet worked up into a state of excitement
which kept him from being silent.

No,' said Eneas, a little sulkily, still
feeling himself an insulted individual, a
victim of a poor gentleman, yet not without
a dim comprehension that the Drysdales
meant better by him in their strange
behaviour than he could understand, or
perhaps was entitled to expect.

It is your father and mither s marriage
contract,' said auld Tam, coming to the
point at once. ' Did you ever hear tell

o'er

Yes,' said Eneas, in increased surprise ;
I have heard my aunts in St. Mungo's
Square speak of it many a time. We did

not know what had become of it ; but I
never thought it was of any consequence

You were wrong, then,' was Tarn Drysdale's
short rejoinder ; 'but read it for
yourself' noo, when you've the chance, and
see what you have to do with it.'

Thus urged, Eneas Mackinnon stood still
and read the paper put into his hands,
while the two Tarns watched keenly his
handsome, usually impassive face. It had
been working with various emotions before
he began to read, and as he read on it was
hard to say what of rage or triumph or compunction
passed over this page of quivering
flesh and blood, while the truth dawned
upon Eneas, as it had dawned upon others
in turn, that he had been during the whole
course of his life unwittingly defrauded of
his due  by his own father and mother in
the first place, and by Claribel's father in the
second.

With the knowledge came also the
realization to the Lieut nant  a realization
not the less certain that it was a dull,

vague pain as yet--of how much he had
suffered, what galling poverty for a man
in his station he had endured, how cheerless
had been his prospects, and how their
hopelessness had early broken his spirit
and crushed the life in him. And he was
standing in the presence of the man who
had 'unawares,* as he asserted, flourished
on the unfair acquisition of Eneas's birthright,
whose son and daughters had succeeded
to every advantage inherited by a
rich man's children.

Moreover, this rich man  this old servant
of Gavin Mackinnon's  had until lately
treated Eneas with hardly veiled contempt,
so that he had come into Tam Drysdale's
company, half an hour before, in almost
abject dread of his withering scorn.

The paper rustled in the young man's
grasp, and he bent his head over it, till
young Tam began to ask himself, and to
telegraph with his eyes to his father  was
it quite fair after all thus to take their
natural enemy by surprise, though he had

stepped in upon them unexpectedly, and
to subject him, while he was unprepared
with the means of baffling their observation,
to so searching a scrutiny ?

Suddenly Eneas Mackinnon looked up
and put down the paper.

Well ?' he questioned coldly, as if he
were the very incarnation of caution.

Weel,' echoed Tam impatiently, in
answer to the enigmatical remark, 'are
you satisfied that your mither's property is
yours  less the purchase-money  in spite
of all that is come and gone ?'

It might have been mine, you mean,
Mr. Drysdale,' corrected Eneas calmly.
It was sold and bought before I was
born.'

But cinna you see that the bargain, for
which there was no title, is null and void ?'
demanded Tam almost querulously.

In law, perhaps, yes ; in honour, no.
My father had the purchase-money ; you
bought the place in good faith and made
the most of it, which we should never

have done. There is an end of the
matter.'

'Well, you're a gentleman and no mistake,*
said auld Tam, with sudden conviction.

I hope so said the Lieutenant, with
his ordinary quietness ; * not that I have
given any great example of it here '  he
hastened to guard against exaggeration
and bathos, which are the peculiar horror
of men of his stamp. ' I might, indeed,
resent losing a chance in trade which has
been a splendid one in your hands ; but it
was lost mainly, on the face of the transaction,
by my father and mother's blindness,
and I have not been so wise on my
own account as to take it upon me to
condemn the blunders of my progenitors.
Besides, I could not have made a kirk ora
mill of the works which have prospered
so well with you. As it happens I'm in
the army, for better, for worse ; and if
I'm little good as a soldier, I should do
still less in any other character. What
would you have ?' He finished as if he

would say, with a curious proud sincerity,

Where is there any particular merit in
what I'm doing ? and I'm not going to take
credit for what I don't deserve.'

But both auld Tarn and young Tam
contradicted him.

I'm proud to know you, Mr. ,
sir,' insisted Tam Drysdale, in
perfect earnestness and simplicity. ' Ay,
though I'm free to own I've bocht the
knowledge at a heavy cost. You're come
of a gude auld stock, and you do it honour.
Eh I Clary was aye a wise lass  I might
have kenned that.'

At these words the Lieutenant softened.

I am glad you think so, sir,' he said,
and he even gave a little nervous laugh.

Will you tell her so ? Will you prove
your faith by your deeds '?'

That will I,' answered auld Tam
fervently.

But young Tam was waiting to speak.

I trust, Mackinnon, you give us credit
for being, to the best of our ability, honest

VOL. III. 59

men. As such it is impossible for us tolet
the business rest here. It must be put
into the lawyers' hands. If a compromise
can be effected, well and good ; we shall be
only too thankful, for I need hardly point
out to you that, to men in business, anything
else would be about the greatest
misfortune that could befall them. If 
after matters are settled young Tam
stammered, for he too had to struggle
with mingled pride and better feelings,
'you should still wish to be connected
with us, I for one will be very glad.'

 I thought matters were settled,' said
Eneas half loftily, half languidly, * when
Mr. Drysdale was good enough to praise
your sister for wisdom in the most foolish
thing she has ever done. But if my future
relations will think the best of me,' he
added in an easier, more friendly tone  ' I
hope they will not be disappointed  and
if they will offer me a welcome, I need not
say I am greatly obliged to them.'

Say no more,' interposed auld Tam.

Clary has known best  we have great
cause to endorse her opinion and thank
her for it. I'll tell her so with my ain
lips ; and although she has a mind of her
ain, as a lassie so by ordinary' sensible has a
right to have, she'll be pleased to hear her
father say so. Her mother will neither be
to hand nor bind ; and little Eppie, who
has been looking at me with beseeching
been for weeks past, will be as proud as
gin you were Sir Hugie, whose turn will
come next. There's the dinner-bell ; you'll
dine with us sir  of course you will.
Dress ? What's dress among friends ?
The very Queen on the throne looks
ower't on occasions. Forbye, you officiers'
worst coats have an air that is wanting in
we ceety men's best.'

592

A NICE CALCULATION.

Dr. Peter had carte blanche to dine at
Drysdale Hall on every day of the year.
If his plate was not always laid for him,
it was ready to be brought when he
wanted it. He might even come in at
any stage of the dinner, and in spite of his
protestations have the soup and fish recalled
for his special benefit, while the rest
of the company waited cheerfully, and the
success of the other courses was risked
without a groan, so heartily was he welcomed.
But he had certainly never contemplated
breaking bread with Tarn Drysdale
this day.

The truth is, there are more things than

business which will not tarry till a man
has his way. Among these matters are
the physical ills that flesh is heir to. The
popular poor man's doctor, in a crowded
district, is pretty sure to be intercepted
and turned aside from his goal, at the
very time that he is most anxious to avoid
interruption and keep faith with himself.
Dr. Peter durst not defer his errand to
another day, and so he brought it to the
dinner-table at Drysdale Hall, where he
found the little pleasant stir and excitement
which betokens a happy family event
on the eve of its fulfilment. The very
servants were sensible that something: of
the kind was going on. Though Mr.
Mackinnon had dined frequently of late
with the Drysdales, the subordinates had
an impression that this ofl*-hand dinner
was not like the other dinners, but was
a prelude to enlarged family gatherings
without end.

There were bright faces round the table,
among which Claribei's showed a calm

superiority to girlish tremors, Avliile the
Lieutenant's was equally free from all save
an air of relief, and a mild basking in the
rays of his sun.

Young Tarn's looked the most preoccupied
face, with an occasional knit of
the brows as if he had mental nuts to
crack.

The atmosphere round auld Tam was
that of rest for the time, not of warfare
over ; for he knew the battle was to re-commence
tomorrow, a touoh enough contest
still, to render it doubtful to which side
victory might incline. But when had auld
Tam shrunk from a tussle with fortune, or
when had he feared to be beaten unless
where he was hedged about with such
fatal casualties and inopportune disasters
that no man could have overcome them \
But the hedge was broken down, and the
rough way made clear again, and what man
could do he would, with his son Tam fighting:
by his side. Only to-day, Tam Drysdale
had a breathing-space to recover from the

weariness which had threatened to be
deadly. It was rapidly passing away before
the first breath of open air, light, and
liberty, when a man speaks out what ought
to have been proclaimed on the housetop,
but has lain hidden in secret places ; when
he consents to pay his penalty like a man,
and reviving heart and hope answer instantly
to the proper treatment of the
disease, as the steel to the magnet, as the
green earth to the sun and rain.

Dr. Peter did not know what to make
of the scene. How could auld Tam sit like
a patriarch crowned with honour and
well-doing, considering what was on his
conscience '? How had he the face, the
heart to entertain his victim ? Nay, it was
plain that Tam Drysdale intended to perpetrate
a further piece of iniquity by allowing
Eneas Mackinnon to marry Claribel,
by making him one of the family, a sharer
in their prosperity and adversity, in order
to shut his mouth if there was ever any
suspicion of the truth.

Did young Tarn know anything of the
unpardonable tampering with law and
justice ? Could he have been suborned and
seduced into crooked paths ? He was more
silent and glummer than in his hobbledehoy
days. He looked harassed, almost
careworn. Here was another stab to Dr.
Peter, for he had been fond of that lad,
fonder than he knew. Young Tarn too !
Dr. Peter's righteous soul sickened with
repugnance and shame. Auld Tarn noticed
that his friend was not himself, and, as
Thole had done in the morning, pressed
him with sympathetic inquiries after
patients who were in a better case than
their doctor was.

If Dr. Peter had but retained sufficient
faith in auld Tam and in his Maker, a good
many hours of wretchedness and useless
mortification would have been saved.
Peter Murray might have known that
Tam Drysdale's long life of reverence and
integrity would not go for nothing, that it
is not such as he who make shipwreck

of conscience and character, and trample
religion and morals under foot, midway in
their career. He might have guessed that
if auld Tarn slipped and fell, it would only
be to rise again and mount to greater
heights, though it were through the valley
of humiliation.

If Dr. Peter had but known it, when he
was seen to pass the dining-room window,
auld Tam's eyes had sparkled with eager
satisfaction. He had murmured to his son :

It's like a play, Tam, illa player
dropping in at the precise moment to fit
into the performance, to hear what concerns
him, and act his part in the clammy.'

He was in reality burning for the ladies
to be gone, to leave him and the two young
men and Dr. Peter, who had his interest in
the business  with regard to which he was
about to be enlightened  to go into it afresh.
The opening it up to young Tam had been
like the letting out of waters, and auld
Tam, having liberated the flood, was not
disposed to try the vain experiment of

damming it up again. For that matter, he
laboured under a fit of reaction, with its
tendency to rush from one extreme to
another, to shout in the market-place what
he had hitherto refrained from whispering
in the ear.

At Tam Drysdale's first word a load was
lifted from Dr. Peter's mind  the horrible
load of being compelled to call a friend to
account for a miserable departure from duty
and if he would not turn from the error
of his ways to denounce him to the world.
It Alas as if he had awakened in an instant
from a bad dream, when a whole phantasmagoria
of evil motives and unrighteous
deeds vanished in the twinkling of an eye.
Dr. Peter was ready to thank God and
take courage ; nay more, to feel affronted
because he had done his friend a wronor
which it would be impossible to repair by
immediately owning it. To tell auld Tam
what Dr. Peter had tliouoht of him for the
better part of a day would be to add insult
to injury. In all their future intercourse

there would always be a confidence, shyly
Withheld on the one side, though auld Tarn
admitted frankly on the other :

I was sorely temper, Peter, if you will
believe me, to hide all knowledge of Gavin
Mackinnon's contract. You could never
credit how I was temper, God help me I
I cinna ken at this moment how the balance
might have turned, if it had not been that
the twa Eppies were as true as steel, and
that I felt that I could not look my laddie
Tarn in the face again if I gazed for the rest
of my life with a lee in my right hand

It was Dr. Peter's punishment for his
want of faith that he had to remain silent,
hanging his fine head somewhat at this
appeal. He would never mention on what
errand he had come so opportunely to
Drysdale Hall that evening.

Later on Dr. Peter cut his knot of the
thread in the tangled web without difficulty :

You can demand back from me my
father's share in the purchase-money you
paid for the works. Good. Then I can

come upon your future son-in-law  is it not
so, Tarn ?  for his father s having misled
mine as to the lesfalitv of the sale. In
addition, I can try to prove that you owe
me a share of your profits during these
intervening years, in proportion to my
father s share in the concern, and to the
state of the works and business when you
got them ; and you can retaliate by showing
that you found the plant falling to pieces,
and the veins trade at Di*vsdale Haugh
on its last leers  a ticklish contention,
which might be very profitable to the
lawyers engaged in it, but for the rest of
the people who had to do with the suit, I
take it the thing would be about square to
beon.n with.'

Sir Huoro WLQouo:hbv and Guv Hors-burgh
looked in during the evening  to
complete the dramatis personae, auld Tarn
kept telling himself, though only Sir Hugo
had an interest, and that an indirect one,
in the question which was so momentous
to the master of Drvsdale Hall. The

young gentleman had paid his court to
little Eppie, believing her to be a rich
man's daughter. Sir Hugo's lady-mother
and doubtless the rest of his great
relations would follow her example  had
consented to put up with the origin of
Eppie and her fortune ; but what if the
fortune disappeared, and the bonnie lass
had only her face to depend upon for their
favour ? What if her father, in place of
being honoured in the city, had been
covered with disgrace  a man who had
held land and works without a warranty
and had so recklessly traded with them
that he had ended in becoming bankrupt,
to the ruin of many better men than himself?
Sir Hugo had still a risk to run,
but he might take his chance. He would
no longer be able to say that he had
been beguiled into an alliance with Eppie
Drysdale and with trade under false
pretences.

Auld Tam felt so convinced that everything
was leading up to a deiioueraejit, he

took an opportunity to speak a few words
aside to his last visitor.

I'll give you your answer tomorrow, Sir
Hugie, if that will please you. I grant you've
been patient, and I thank you for it, to what
must have seemed to you rank tyranny
and a spirit of contradiction. But you'll
ken better before you're mony hours alder.
I'll lay my reasons before you, and you'll
admit I had cause for what I did.'

I have no doubt, sir, you acted for the
best,' said Sir Hugo, with the most anxious
deference, trembling lest he should spoil the
propitious moment by any false step). * I
am sure your reasons are excellent, if only
you will entertain '

Your proposal, and give you my younger
doctor,' auld Tam finished the sentence.
Some things are worth waiting for, and
the desire of your heart and a gude wife
are among them. Can you blame me that
I'm loth to lose her ? You've some notion
of what kind of doctor she's been, and let
me tell you. Sir Hugie, that's the best

assurance of the wife she'll mak' to him
that gets her  I do not say to you, for
there's mony a slip 'tween the cup and the
lip. If she's sweet to you, what do you
think she maun be to me, who dandled
her in my arms  the bonniest and best of
weans [babies] from her cradle. How do
you think Drysdale Hall will look to me
and mother when there's ne'er a young lass
to set it out and keep it cheery 1 You
young fellies that come seeking your own
ends think little of the blank you leave
behind you when you carry the day.'

'Forgive me, sir, I do think of it,' protested
Sir Hugo. ' I know that I am
selfish, and that I ask far more than I
deserve ; but if there is anything I can
do '

Mak' her happy, man,' said auld Tam,
*if she's ever yours, for there are some
craws to be pud yet between you and me.
Mind that it was your will to raise her to
your state  if so be she is raised. I've no
fear but that she'll make a gentle teddy, for

she's that akeady. Then if you're rude to
her, as a man should be to the mate he has
chosen out of all the world, her mother and
me will bless and not ban you

There was a little music and a great deal
of talk in the warmth and brightness  for
auld Tam went clean against the modern
vagary of fashion which prefers semi darkness
to light  and in the flowery fragrance
of the Drvsdale Hall drawings-room.

Mrs. Drysdale would have willingly
foregone her nightly game of bezique, but
Eppie would not suffer the omission.
Perhaps she had a premonition that her
mother would soon have to relinquish that
and many another kindly custom dear
from old use and wont, doubly dear from
mother love. The sole change young
Eppie would consent to make was that Sir
Hugo might join the game ; and in order
not to render the privilege too peculiar, she
invited his friend Guy Horsburgh to bethe
fourth in the quartette  a piece of
good breeding on account of which Sir

Hugo, with all his virtues, was not above
being piqued for the twentieth part of a
minute.

Clary was at the piano playing occasionally,
with Eneas Mackinnon to turnover
her music and talk to her in the intervals.


Auld Tarn and Dr. Peter sat on a couch,
saying little, simply enjoying the smiling
peace of the scene. Tam Drysdale leant
back, and had his arms crossed above his
head in an easy unconventional attitude,
while he stared fitfully into the fire. No
contrast could be greater than the air the
room presented to the agitated conversation
between the father and the son on the
terrace in the afternoon, or the breathless
explanation with Eneas Mackinnon in the
business-room afterwards.

After the storm comes the calm, but
one never knows when a bomb-shell may
not fall and burst amidst the most tranquil
surroundings.

The author of the disturbance on this

VOL. III. <'0

occasion was young Tarn, who had been
sitting buried in an easy-chair, busy with a
paper and pencil, as if he were torturing
himself and his neighbours by working out
a succession of double acrostics. Suddenly
he rose with a flushed face and generally
excited mien. He walked across to his
father, holding up the sum of his calculations.


Father,' he said, ' when your father's
cousin Drysdale, of Drysdale Haugh, died
in Scotland, and his niece by marriage and
adoption, Mrs. Craig, died at Calcutta '

Tam put the speaker away with a half-peremptory,
half-reproachful gesture.

Holy [stop] ! Tam, we've had enough
of this for one day. Mind, the upshot of
the story is not so new to some of us as to
you. It must be gone into again presently,
and every blessed thing sifted to the
bottom. There's no help for that. But I
think it is neither judicious nor altogether
weevil to Lieutenant JMackinnon yonder,
who has behaved like a perfect gentleman,

for you, while in his company  though he's
no heeding  to keep hammering on at the
unfortunate transaction in which his father
and mother were the mast to blame, and
to rake up the slender nature of the connection
between his grandmother and auld
Drysdale.'

But I must speak, and the sooner the
better,' cried young Tam, not even troubling
in his excitement to modulate his voice.
If the matter be gone into, as it certainly
will if I have a voice in it, it cannot be
done on mistaken premises. There is
something else wrong which must be seen
to instantly. You know the period of time
that intervened between the deaths of the
uncle and niece.'

It was some twa hours,' said auld Tam,
slowly and in a stupefied way, for the
events of the day were proving too much
for him, while Dr. Peter sat bolt upright
and looked all alive. Then auld Tam shook
himself up and spoke more definitely ; ' auld
Drysdale died here  that is, at Drysdale

602

Haugh  when the knock was clapping'
twas', on the 11th of June, as I've heard
tell. Mrs. Craig died on the same day,
at Calcutta, at twa in the afternoon 
twa hours later ; and I've been assured
that twa minutes langer breath for her
would have been enough to constitute her
infant her heir.'

Ay, but I am prepared to show that the
advantage is all on the other side. The
question is not one of law, but of science,
and nobody has seen it in that light.
Allowance has not been made for the
difference of time in different longitudes.
As you count hours by the earth's course
round the sun, Mrs. Craig died about an
hour and a half before instead of two hours
after her uncle.*

Gude preserve us I' exclaimed Tam,
while Dr. Peter started to his feet with an
ear-piercing ' Whew !' that caused Eneas
Mackinnon at the piano to raise his eyebrows,
Clary beside him to shrug her
shoulders, and the whole bezique party

to pause and look round for an instant.


 You cinna mean it said auld Tana
almost piteously. * Is it so '?' He turned
helplessly to Dr. Peter. ' Are the tables
turned ? Was I so lang kept out of my
ain? Have I been twice wronged and
never the wrangler '?'

I make little doubt of it. I believe
young Tarn is right, but I must go over
the calculation for myself  it is easy
enough  if you will give me a minute. To
think the difference of hemispheres never
occurred to the lawyers who administered
the will ! You see what it is to have a
son a student  the first in his class in
mathematics. Chemistry is not everything,
eh, Tam '?'

 I wash he had spoken surer,' said auld
Tam, with a groan over the anguish from
which he might have been spared.

The calculation never occurred to meany
more than to the lawyers who sat
upon the will,' said young Tam modestly.

The astronomical reckoning is, as Dr.
Peter says, plain and simple enough.
Every schoolboy is taught to make it,
though he may not be able to put the
knowledge into practice at a moment's
notice. I did not think of the old will,
which I never saw till to-days

Ca' him here,' said Tam, indicating the
officier lad.' ' I'll do to him as I would be
done by.'

But Eneas Mackinnon did not receive
the last news as he had received the first.
He reddened violently at the idea of his
mother's having entered upon and disposed
of an inheritance which was never hers.
He recoiled from the prospect of being
made out auld Tam's debtor to an overwhelmingly
hopeless extent, instead of
Tam's being proved his  Eneas's  debtor
to an amount which the young man's
generosity and his love for Claribel rendered
easily redeemable. His pride and his good
feeling had been alike flattered by the
power, rare with him, of granting an

amnesty and dispensing favours. His
slow-working intellect could not readily
grasp the astronomical calculation, easy as
it was, which was said to overturn the will.
Fortune, if not the Drysdales, appeared to
be playing strange tricks upon him. It
was a return to the old story, and something
worse. He was reduced, in the
course of a few hours, to his former
detested condition of genteel poverty and
absence of any chance of independence and
moderate prosperity. Added to it, he was
already loaded with huge money obligations
to auld Tam Drysdale, which Eneas
could no more think of retrieving, in the
natural term of his life, than he could look
forward to receiving the baton of a field-marshal.
Auld Tam vas wise in his
generation. He might not essay what was
equivalent to the vain task of taking
breeches from a breeches Highlander.
He might cancel Eneas's mountain-load of
obligations, but neither the obligations nor
the cancelling formed a fitting preparation

dim recollection of another extraordinary
factor in this medley of law and justice.

I've a notion,' he said, ' that if property
is held for the space of forty years or
thereabouts, by other than the rightful
owners, through some mischance  like this
of mistaken time  then a law called ' the
law of proscription' steps in and bestows
the property on the holder, forbidding a
restoration to rightful heirs that leaps over
more than one generation. It is upwards of
forty years since Mrs. Craig's child's title
to Drysdale Haugh was made out, and
that title has never been challenged, to the
best of my knowledge, till now. On the
other hand, Mrs. Mackinnon did not keep
the place in her possession for much more
than half the specified time. She sold it
to the lawful heir. I cannot tell what to
make of it, Tam ; it beats me.'

It was Clary who settled the question
when she came over and asked what they
were all talking over so earnestly, and was
told as well as so complicated a story <xnild

be conveyed in a few words. She thought
a Httle, and then gave her decision without
hesitation :

Let well alone, let matters be as they
are : my father could not, if he wished it,
exact from Mr. Mackinnon a forfeit which
no officer without a large private fortune
could pretend to pay. And what could Mr.
Mackinnon make of the Drysdale Haugh
works, if the law were to decree them to
him, while the farm without the dyeing
and calico-printing would not, in the
present state of agriculture, support the
old farmhouse, if it could be restored,
stripped of the modern mansion. Let
everything remain as it is. I take it for
granted,' she ended, looking up with a little
smile at Eneas, ' the law will not put us all
in prison, as it did your aunts in St. Mungo's
Square, because we decline to avail ourselves
of its costs and surprises and delays.'

While successions were thus bandied,
fortunes turned upside down, and lives
reversed, the bezique-players, in utter un-dim

recollection of another extraordinary
factor in this medley of law and justice.

I've a notion,' he said, ' that if property
is held for the space of forty years or
thereabouts, by other than the rightful
owners, through some mischance  like this
of mistaken time  then a law called ' the
law of proscription' steps in and bestows
the property on the holder, forbidding a
restoration to rightful heirs that leaps over
more than one generation. It is upwards of
forty years since Mrs. Craig's child's title
to Drysdale Haugh was made out, and
that title has never been challenged, to the
best of my knowledge, till now. On the
other hand, Mrs. Mackinnon did not keep
the place in her possession for much more
than half the specified time. She sold it
to the lawful heir. I cannot tell what to
make of it, Tam ; it beats me.'

It was Clary who settled the question
when she came over and asked what they
were all talking over so earnestly, and was
told as well as so complicated a story could

be conveyed in a few words. She thought
a little, and then gave her decision without
hesitation :

Let well alone, let matters be as they
are : my father could not, if he wished it,
exact from Mr. Mackinnon a forfeit which
no officer without a large private fortune
could pretend to pay. And what could Mr.
Mackinnon make of the Drysdale Haugh
works, if the law were to decree them to
him, while the farm without the dyeing
and calico-printing would not, in the
present state of agriculture, support the
old farmhouse, if it could be restored,
stripped of the modern mansion. Let
everything remain as it is. I take it for
granted,' she ended, looking up with a little
smile at Eneas, ' the law will not put us all
in prison, as it did your aunts in St. Mungo's
Square, because Ave decline to avail ourselves
of its costs and surprises and delays.'

While successions were thus bandied,
fortunes turned upside down, and Ives
reversed, the bezique-players, in utter unconsciousness

of what was going on in the
same room, proceeded with their play 
shuffling and dealing their cards, pairing
their couples, running up their rows of
figures. It was as if the four were typical
players, engaged in the same game of life
'which was being enacted in another form,
without their knowledge, by their side,
and that the counters in reality were
human heads and hearts.

ATHOLE MURRAY SKETCHES A MODERN FUG-
GEREI  THE MISS Mackintosh* ULTIMATUM.

Thole Murray did not see her father for
the next twenty-four hours. He Angered
at Drysdale Hall till it was late, not
returning to Barley Kiggs till she had
reluctantly retired ostensibly to rest,
actually to pass a sleepless night. She
would fain have sat up for him, but did
not like to disobey his orders on this night
of all others. He had to start by break of
day to attend a professional consultation
which was to be held at some distance.
He was detained longer than he expected,
took the round of his patients on his way
home, and did not reappear at Barley

Kiggs till Thole's tea-hour, when he
walked in almost simultaneously with auld
and young Tarn.

In the interval Thole had got sufficient
time to brood over what she had made out
of his conversation the previous day, with
the conclusion she had leaped to of calamity,
not unmingled with disgrace, hanging over
the Drysdales. She could not fathom it,
but the impression was there. When the
blow fell, would her relations be the same
to young Tam ? All her heart was melting
to him to atone for the injustice of fortune
and the injury inflicted by another, though
she knew not by whom. She had been
fond of auld Tam. She could not lightly
think evil of him, though she had been
sorely perplexed by his conduct lately ;
but at least young Tam was blameless,
honourable, and trustworthy  she could
swear to that. She felt all at once impelled
to comfort him, with a soft but irresistible
impulse which no force could stay.

While she was in this mood the three

men walked in upon her, full of their
strange story of a marriage contract, and a
last will, of lost documents, and overlooked
problems of science, restitution, and compromise.
The speakers were all eager,
and, as it seemed to her in her shaken
spirits, all rejoicing to the verge of exultation."
They were so bent on telling her
their story, and so sure of her sympathy,
that they did not miss it when it failed to
flow forth as it ought to have done ; nobody
said, as he might have said, ' You are not
answering  you are not glad ; what has
come over you ?'

Young Tam would have been the last todo
it, for he was the most carried away,
the gayest. He seemed taken out of himself,
as he stood there like a victor in the
flush of victory, to whom all must yield.

And do what Thole would, she who
was still thrilling with the sense of what
she had almost made up her mind to be to
him if he were the loser, who was dragged
two ways between a sense of blank disappointment

at the instantaneous fading away
of the vision which in a night had grown
so sweet and a feeling of intense pride and
pleasure for his sake, that his hand had
cut the knot and rescued auld Tarn from
his strait, could not for her life resist young
Tarn's new attitude as a conqueror. Her
eyes fell before his. Her colour went and
came ; she could not laugh, she could not
speak, she did not know how long she
would be able to breathe. Her hands
trembled so that she had to clasp them
tightly to keep them still. She felt the
ground slipping from beneath her feet.

Her father was the first to remark upon
her silence.

Is there anything the matter with you,
Athie X inquired Dr. Peter, like a grey-headed
enfant terrible, and then he wound
up with the mal a propos remark, * You are
not like yourself.'

Auld Tam tapped his friend on the arm :

Come wa', man ; we are twa over
mony. Leave her to a younger doctor.

Dod ! did you never suspect that the wind
blew in that quarter V in answer to the look
of bewilderment, enlightenment, tender
regret, and unselfish satisfaction with which
his hint was met. ' There is name so blind
as a clever, honourable gentleman.'

When the pair were beyond hearing,
auld Tam had his joke out of the situation.

You'll never have the face to object
now, Peter, when you've given the lad
every encouragement  treated him as if he
had been a son of your ain, from the time
he went after your lassie.'

I cannot leave my father, and I'll never
be able to look your mother in the face.
You know she cannot abide me,' protested
Thole to young Tam.

You will not be far from your father,'
he told her ; * and as for my mother, when
she sees that you give me more than my
due, and finds what you can do for her
son, she will not know how highly to prize
you. Besides, you are going to make upto
her for the loss of Clary and Eppie.'

VOL. III. Cil

Are you so mad as to think I shall ever
be like little Eppie  like Lady Willoughby
of Willoughby Court  to your mother i'

You will fill your own place as young
Mrs. Tam, to whom my mother Avill pay
all respect. I say, Thole, you can aftbrd
to be second best with her. You are the
style of woman who can consent to that.'

If Thole was likely to be second best
with mother Eppie, there was every indication
of her holding her own with auld Tarn,
when before he left she sketched for him a
Glasgow version of the Ausfsburo' Fuo'erei,
a Drysdale quarter of St. Mungo's city,
built expressly for the accommodation of
the working classes, which he vowed if he
rose above trade troubles he would rear asa
memorial of his deliverance from a great
temptation and a great downfall.

And young Tam's initials shall be intertwined
with yours, Thole, and wrocht
beneath mine and Eppie's boon illa door.*

The Lieutenant hesitated whether the
two discoveries in relation to the marriage

contract and the will should be communicated
to his aunts. He was not at all sure
how they would take the news. But
Claribel advocated entire openness.

*The are entitled to hear she said.
Besides, they will only believe what they
like ; and they will remain convinced that
they did the best for you and everybody.
So far as intentions went, I am sure they
are right.'

Claribel too proved right, as she
generally was.

Diana we tell you about the marriage
settlement ? And were we not to be
trusted to mak' everything as sicca as law
and auld Dauvit Milne and that laddie
Dalgleish, Teens Carstairs' man, could
bind them % As for any story at this time
of the day about auld Drysdale's living
longer than Maggie Craig's mother, because
he was in Scotland and she was in India,
it's perfect havers on the face o't  more
than that, it's clean profanity, as if death
could travel faster than the earth and the

612

sun either, and do his work as sure here as
there. We may dismiss that lee. No
that I'm for a minute evening your worthy
father to be a leer, Clary, my dear Miss
Janet condescended to correct herself.
Everybody kens he is a mast respectable
man. But men, begging your pardon,
Lieutenant, are simple, and it stands to
nature that they will believe Avhat suits
their purpose, though it's as wild a ferlie as
ever set up an auld ballant. So, Lieutenant,
you might have been a bleacher and dyer
in your ain person instead of an officier in
her Majesty's service, but I think you and
Clary will agree with me that you're better
as you are  you'll allow we did the best
for you.'

'Deed did we,' chimed in Miss Bethia ;
*and now you'll get your portion back
again, like Joseph  or was it Benjamin ?
and Clary here into the bargain.'

