CHAPTER I.

THE WATCHER IN THE QUARRY.

No place could be more peaceful than the old
quarry just beyond the grounds of Redcot on
a still, grey winter afternoon. The quarry had
been abandoned by the masons who had once
worked in it for at least a score of years.
The men who had wielded mallet and chisel
there, and caused the air to resound with
the din of labour, or of rough-voiced talk
and laughter at meal-time, had betaken themselves
to other quarries, or had lain down to a
long rest from mortal toil. Hid Nature's
healing processes had gone on for so many

VOL. I. B

clinging seasons that, what in the days of
its full activity and value in a commercial light,
had been a raw ugly scar on the side of a
sandstone rock, at the edge of a hanging wood,
was now mellowed by time and weather. It
stood veiled and garlanded by luxuriant drapery
of bramble and briar, with bushes of elder and
thorn springing from odd niches, and tufts of
gorse and bracken clinging for bare life to the
merest crannies, until the old quarry had
become a positive object of beauty in the
landscape. Indeed, its attractions in this
respect were sometimes fatal to its seclusion.
Lovers of wild roses and of blackberries in
their prime, seekers after birds' nests, hunters
after certain kinds of butterflies, adventurous
spirits with nothing else to do, were apt to
invade the steep, broken recesses of the disused
quarry, not without danger to the ignorant
stranger. Tramps had been known to
sleep there in passing, tinkers to squat therefor
a time. But that was in the height of

summer. In November, when the vegetation
was sere and russet, the very bramble leaves,
with their hectic dyes, shrivelling up or rotting
under the sharp frost or the heavy dew, which
the sun, when it did break forth, had not
strength to lick up ; dien the birds, except in
the morning, were nearly all silent, and only
the white tail of a rabbit scudding to its hole,
flashed a little light on the dim cheerlessness
of the scene, few persons were to be met with
for wrecks together near Eedcot Quarry. For,
as it happened, no by-road or right-of-way from
village to village, no path frequented by school
children, led past the place. The old road,
which the masons had trodden when the quarry
was in full operation, had long been as overgrown
and as much left to a not ungraceful
neglect as everything else.

But during the darkening days of the last
autumn and winter, one man had been,
unknown to his little world, a daily frequenter
of the miniature precipices and

B 2

yawning holes beneath the Eedcot Quarry.
He came there regularly at certain hours,
and lingered for long intervals at points of
vantage among the scattered hillocks. He
tramped up doggedly, like a man unaccustomed
to be challenged ; yet there was an
element of stealthiness in the tramp. He had
the air of a man who had stolen away from
his neighbours to indulge a craving, who did
not wish to be observed in the indulgence.
He was always careful in choosing a station
among the rocks and underwood from which
his figure could not be detected at the distance
his eye could command, since the upper portion
of the quarry afforded a tolerably wide view
of the adjoining country, including the meadows
of Ladslove as well as the woods of Eedcot.

The watcher was on the spot on the afternoon
referred to. He was standing quite erect
but partially sheltered from notice by a projecting
mass of ancient debris which did not
prevent him from looking steadily down across

an imiuterriipted flat space below, a good many
acres in extent. He stood stock still. He had
not moved for the last half-hour. It seemed as
if the very muscles of the face, healthily
coloured and tanned by an open-air life, were
frozen into rigidity.

The fields to which the gazer's attention
was directed were stripped bare with the swept-out
emptiness of late autumn. Some of them
had been already turned up by the plough and
lay in heavy dark clods of earth. Others were
pasture fields, but the cattle which had fed
there had been housed for the winter, and the
grass had the whitey-green sodden look which
it assumes under a sunless haze and unformed
frost, or under wet, pure and simple. A turnip
field in which sheep had been penned presented
yellowing, half-cropped leaves, and rooted up
gnawed bulbs, in the middle of a waste of mire,
but the sheep, too, having done their duty,
were gone, and only the hurdles, falling down,
and with many gaps, were left to tell the tale of

the former occupants. Nothing was stirring
even on the little stretch of high road which
intersected the meadow-land ; no vehicle of
any description ; neither pink-coat, nor horse,
nor dog to suggest a meet far on in the day.
Xo prospect could have been more blank than
that which seemed to fascinate the watcher.

If he was a poacher he carried no gun.
He might be a gamekeeper from his shabby
shooting coat and leggings, but the unloved
hands  long, with well-shaped nails  were not
those of an ordinary gamekeeper, and the soft
felt hat shaded a lean lined face, which was
not that of the typical yeoman. It betrayed
traces of breeding and culture, running down
through more than one generation. True, a
king may look like a clown, but it was not so
with John Prior, the squire of Eedcot. He
was as shabby in his outward man as squire
could be. He was in the state of irritability,
apprehension, and hopelessness, which is calculated
to make a man careless in his dress, unless

lie happens to be a martinet of the matter.
He had never been handsome, though he was
not without a certain air of distinction to begin
with. He was tall and well made in figure, butin
face his features were harsh and irregular,
culminating in a heavy forehead. Yet the
breadth of brow was striking, and the carriage
of the head had been good. The eyes with
the somewhat shaggy eyebrows were honest,
intelligent eyes, which in their day could return
a quick response to the more than half-suppressed
smile, full of dry humour, of the large
expressive mouth.

But smiles had become strange to John
Prior. His hair was ahiiost white, though he
was not sixty. He was acquiring a fleshless,
dried-up look which rendered his natural disadvantages
 the bullet shape of his forehead, the
size of his jaw  more conspicuous. A perfect
net-work of wrinkles was being lodged at the
corners of his eyes and right across his forehead.
The lines from the wide nose to the

mouth, unshaded by moustache or beard, had
become deepened and accentuated till a double
prominence was given to the long upper Up.
The large mouth would have been coarse but
for its original humour and kindliness, and for
what had replaced these qualities  a tumult of
jjain and trouble which for the most part compressed
the lips and only occasionally sent a
rueful quiver through them, the result being a
trifle tragic but not vulgar. Altogether, John
Prior's face was rapidly becoming ugly enough
to have figured in stone on a gargoyle, and
aroused speculations in the much exercised
nineteenth century critic as to whether it
partook most of the absurd or the piteous,
and what its sculptor could have meant by
that grotesque, pathetic face.

Poor John Prior's personality, both moral
and physical, had been wrenched and gnarled.
He had started in life with a strong side and a
weak side  both stronger and weaker than is
the experience of the generality of his fellows 

and the weak element was, as is perhaps not
uncommon, bred of the strong  part and
parcel of its passionate earnestness, vehemence,
unreasonableness. He had been disappointed
again and again in almost everything he had
put his hand to or set his heart upon  very
often as much by his own fault, by the temper
which had made him hope or dream without
measure or balance, as by the fault of another.
But that did not render the disappointment less
bitter, and he was a man who took disappointment
as he had taken everything else, keenly
and persistently, supping upon sorrow, without
any effort or capacity to change the harsh diet.
At first he fed on it in silence with a proud
isolation ; latterly, as both pride and strength
were fretted beyond endurance, he grew surly
with the surliness at times broken by such a
savage growl of suffering as a gentleman  not
in look and descent alone, but at the core of
his heart  could permit himself.

John Prior was standing there in the dank,

gloomy November afternoon, chilled to the
marrow, for his blood ran more slowly with
his loss of heart. He was keeping a forlorn
guard on circumstances which at the same time
he knew himself powerless to control. He was
anticipating fate by a kind of fascination, as he
would have gone out to brave and defy it in his
hot youth. He was telling himself it was well
to know the best or the worst of his misfortunes
at once, without the loss of an hour, and he
was sensible that at any moment while he lurked
there in Redcot Quarry, as if he were an evildoer,
the committer of an act of which he
should be everlastingly ashamed, his doom and
the doom of his wife and children might descend
upon him. It would not fall from the
skies, but it might rise with its irresistible secret
out of the insensate earth, after it had been
probed and pierced.

John Prior had not been guilty of murder.
No victim of brute violence or moral cupidity
had been, under an extraordinary temptation

of the Devil, skin by liii and hidden from
sight in these low-lying, dull, innocent-looking
meadows. Neither had he stolen some tempting
wedge of gold and goodly Babylonian garment,
and stowed them away in that obscure corner.
For that matter the fields did not belong to
him, and were not likely to have been selected
by him as the spot where he was free to deposit
his prey or his spoil, unless he entertained the
base design of directing suspicion away from
his guilty self to his guiltless neighbour. The
meadows at John Prior's feet were part of a
little farm called Ladslove, and had nothing todo
with the estate of Eedcot ; worse luck to
the squire.

CHAPTEE II.

THE ADVANCE OF THE ENEMY.

All the same these fields contained buried
treasure for John Prior, long known to him
and to none else in the same degree, pondered
over and reckoned on as far as it could be
reckoned without actual contact. It had been
the object of his ambition ever since he had
succeeded his father in the Eedcot acres to
buy this neighbouring farm  his only method
of securing the ground which held the pearl of
great price. But when he could have made
the purchase the farm did not come into the
market. Later, when the necessity of getting
the land into his own possession, or at least of
keeping it out of dangerous hands, had become

a thousand times more pressing  even in common
prudence, Prior was cruelly crippled in
funds, and he had grown to entertain a fatal,
overweening confidence in Ladslove's remaining
with its original owner till a more convenient
season. When this was to be, only a man of
John Prior's peculiar temperament, with a warp
of sanguine rashness thrown up broadly against
a melancholy woof of doubt and despair, could
have imagined. It was plainer and plainer, not
only that the Kedcot estate  in these bad days
for agriculture  was of small account without
its mines, but that the Eedcot coal-field on its
present level was nearly worked out. It had
become so difficult and costly in the working
that it could only be carried on at an outlay
which barely paid its expenses, and left hardly
a margin of profit. Side by side with the
diminished gains was the unwelcome knowledge
that the scale of the family living  simple
enough in truth, and the income, not a great
one, drawn by John Prior's only son, in place

of being reduced in proportion, must, as a
matter of necessity, continue very much what
they were, with a tendency rather to increase
than decrease.

At last, when the squire of Red cot was
well aware that the sole chance for him and
his, since he had not the money to sink the
Eedcot pits deeper, lay in the supineness of
an old-fashioned, ignorant yeoman, who cared
more for the blooming surface of his fields
than for the fire which might be in their
breast  the security crumbled into dust. The
yeoman, who held that blood was thicker
than water, signed a bill for a tradesman
brother-in-law. The brother-in-law broke ; the
bill came due ; the surety could not meet it ;
indeed, had other bills hanging heavily round
his honest bull neck. Lambert Crabtree, the
principal partner and manager of Crabtree's
Bank in Newton  the next market town 
took the farm with the consent of the panic-stricken
desperate debtor, in payment of the

bad debt to the bank, and handed over the
small amount of purchase money which exceeded
the banking transactions, just enough
to set up the dispossessed yeoman as a coal-agent,
whom Crabtree might favour by his
and the bank's patronage in Newton. The
farm of Ladslove, in the ' lie ' of the Eedcot
coal-fields, according to mining statistics and
traditions, in place of being John Prior's purchase,
was first the property of Crab tree's Bank,
and next, by some private arrangement, the
personal possession of Lambert Crabtree.

But all is not lost that a friend gets, and if
blood is thicker than water, it might have been
a consolation to the proposed buyer who had
lost his opportunity that the prize had not gone
to an entire stranger, but to an old county
neighbour, an acquaintance of long standing,
more than that to John Prior's own son-in-law,
Lambert Crabtree having married Susie Prior,
the second daughter, at Redcot, eight years
before.

John Prior knew better. The marriage had
been none of his making. He had dished it
from first to last, though he had no tangible
excuse for opposing the match. He was sensible
that neither ties of kindred nor personal feeling
would hinder his son-in-law from hastening to
make the best of his bargain. He was the last
man likely to propose a compromise, as John
Prior would have been the last to suggest one,
though his silence had robbed him of his sole
remaining chance. There was no hope of
Lambert Crabtree's re-selling his recent acquisition,
even if the squire of Eedcot had been
able to buy it  none of his (Crabtree's) dallying
generously with his good fortune, or lingering
with tender reluctance till a hoary head was
laid under the turf.

Accordingly, it was no surprise to the
elder man to find the younger figuring without
loss of time as a public benefactor and a man
of the world, above private considerations. A
party of experienced miners  one or two of

them John Prior's former servants, supposed to
hold the secrets of his mines, began to bore on
Ladslove in search of the Eedcot coal-seam,
which had been hewn into and demolished in
its original thickness and straightness, till its
tapering and shallow point, full of ' hitches '
and ' dykes,' was all that was left in the old
ground. But there was plenty of scientific
presumption that the opposite run of the seam
under the lands of Ladslove carried it on in its
pristine solidity and uniformity, a mine of black
diamonds  hard as ebony in its jetty hue, rich
in gas, perhaps cropping up near the surface, so
as to be worked with little trouble or expense
a fortune to its happy finder.

It was the boring party that John Prior
watched, day after day, from Eedcot Quarry,
which commanded the Ladslove meadows,
especially those fields accounted the most
promising for the quest.

The squire had been an enthusiastic geologist
in his day  perhaps all the more so that,
VOL. I. c

though he was a coal owner, he was not a
practical calm aster ; that is, his pits were in
the hands of an efficient manager. John Prior
had felt the fascination of the science of the
solid rocks which, to the eager student, is as
full of charm as that of the vaulted sky. The
one promises to lay bare the colossal history of
past ages, the other allures with the dim glories
of coming cycles of time. But this student
could not have explained why mining rumour
and geological data had failed so far, only he
was convinced that he, and he alone, knew the
very spot which would yield the treasure. It
was not the point indicated either by popular
belief or by scientific demonstration. The
borers had boldly charged both spots without
any results worth mentioning, for common
tradition, like common rumour, is apt to he,
and mineralogy, like other sciences, sometimes
argues without its host. The rocks of the
earth, whether deposited by floods or volcanoes,
seem occasionally as if they took a perverse

pleasure in appearing and disappearing at will,
tilting lip and sliding down, coming to a dead
halt when least expected to stop, vanishing as if
they were as transitory as the flowers of the
field.

Nevertheless, the master of Eedcot was
satisfied of the reality of his conviction. Away
in the Dutch clover meadow to the right, as he
looked down from the quarry, by the Eats'
Ditch  an unusually deep ditch, almost as deep
as the Eedcot Well, the sides of which, when
cautiously laid bare and narrowly examined,
betrayed certain unmistakable traces  the lost
coal was hidden. It might be elsewhere,
radiating from the centre. John Prior was not
prepared to affirm or deny the possibility, but
the one hope that remained to him was that
there was but a single seam in this bed, and
that the borers might miss it. Such narrow
chances had been before now in the annals of

ming.

The ordeal had been already prolonged

c 2

over a period of months, since the harvest had
cleared away the corn. Every day it seemed
to the man, isolated and desperate in what was
at once his torturing knowledge and his equally
torturing ignorance, that the crisis approached
nearer, that the busy matter-of-fact unconscious
group of labouring men, with their shovels
and picks, and their rods like divining rods,
had more certainly the fortunes of the Priors
of Eedcot in a horny grip.

Yet John Prior need not have contented
himself with stalking in a stealthy fashion to
his quarry of observation, and watching from
afar the operations of the borers. He might
have gone down among them openly, and
looked for himself at what was drawn from
the recesses of the rocks. He need not have
scrupled to do so, even though, as had often
happened, Lambert Crabtree, after his morning
in the bank, took his afternoon ride to Ladslove,
and stayed ten or twenty minutes hearing the
report and examining the pile of ' rubbish.'

There was no actual quarrel between the
relations by marriage. There had never been
any close friendship to be cruelly, if foolishly,
wounded by the course Lambert Crabtree was
pursuing. His conduct had been simply what
might have been looked for in the man. John
Prior was too proud to resent it actively, while
Crabtree himself was too plausible to provoke
such resentment. There had been a little
gratuitous bluster on the delinquent's part,
ignored by his father-in-law. The coolness
between the men, who were naturally antagonistic,
deepened a shade or two ; but there
was no open breach between the families ; they
continued on visiting terms.

It was John Prior's free choice that he
should look on from a distance at the decision
of his fate. He had been doing it with few
intermissions for a long time, and lie felt he had
become almost accustomed to the proceeding,
though at intervals it struck him still as maddening.
After a little experience he had selected

the period of the day when the men were in
the habit of testing their success or failure, and
of changing their stations, sinking or withdrawing
the boring rods, as the case might be.
Sometimes, as had happened on the day referred
to, the working party were delayed by officious
advice and interference, or by an orgie the
previous night and a corresponding fit of laziness
the following morning, such as colliers of
all men are prone to, and the gang had barely
got time to put up their gear, when darkness
had intervened and set them free. On other
days the men would work diligently, as with a
private impulse of confidence and alacrity ;
for if there were pits at Ladslove as well as at
Eedcot, competition would force the masters'
hands, and the colliers would be able to name
their own wages. Their good time would have
come.

Every now and then the borers approached
perilously near the Dutch clover meadow and
the Eats' Ditch. Once they were actually

within a few yards of the former, and John
Prior's eyes grew dim and his heart stood still.
There was no dinner for him that evening, no
sleep that night. But nothing came of the
accidental hit, and the next planting of the
apparatus was further than ever from the goal.
It was like a game which children play when
one of them hides some article fixed upon, and
the others, who have been shut out of the room,
troop in and seek, the hider looking on, his
eyes sparkling with the pride of power, and
shouting ' hot ' or ' cold,' to encourage or deter
the seekers as they approach or recede from
the object of their search. The master of
Eedcot had seen his grandchildren, full of glee,
playing at the game on one of these last evenings.
It had faintly recalled similar sport among his
children almost a generation back, in which he,
still a young man, had been inclined to join on
occasions  on a birthday or on Christmas Eve.
Thisconversion of the game into grim earnest
was like a ghastly travesty of the children's

gambols, and he was not without a crazy impulse
to complete the similitude by hoarsely
calling ' hot as fire, my men ; ' ' nay, lukewarm,'
cold as stone, you idiots,' as an appropriate
chorus to the workmen's uncertain steps.

At times, when John Prior's mind was not
at full stretch, it relieved its oppression by
straying a little from the purpose of his standing
there, and from the November aspect of the
quarry. He remembered former visits to the
place at more genial seasons. He had a fancy
that he had brought his young wife here just
when the quarry had been deserted for a sufficient
space to permit the first fine sprouting of
vegetation which had resulted in the tangled
over-growth before him. He had stopped her
from pricking her fingers by gathering the wild
rose, which she stuck in the belt that women
wore then, the belt to a white muslin gown 
another old-fashion. He had come here with
little Jack after the rabbits, and he rather thought
the boy's first shot had reverberated from the

rocks there. He had brought the little girls to
show them the chaffinches' and whin sparrows'
nests among the bushes. Susie had always been
the most forward, the most meddlesome. He
had held the small hand tightly in his to prevent
lier snatching at the contents of the nests while
she chattered. Once she had slipped away on
the road home, run back and clambered over
the stones, well niofh at the risk of the child's
life, in order to pilfer to her heart's content.
She had dropped the eggs and fledglings from
her frock, breaking and bruising them, so as to
leave behind her a murderous track that infallibly
condemned her. Jane, and even Jack,
had cried at the wanton, wholesale destruction
which Susie had wrought for her petty delectation,
but the culprit herself had not been particularly
penitent, in spite of strong representations
and sharp chastisement.

John Prior groaned inwardly over these
earlier recollections before he dismissed them,
pulled himself together, got rid with an effort

of the stiffness produced by his long continuance
in one constrained position, scrambled down to
the opening into the quarry, issued from it, and
took his way by the offices and the stables to
the house of Eedcot. He walked wearily, notwithstanding
his struggle to the contrary. His
gaunt figure drooped, his strongly-marked face
had a set harshness, a grey tint was stealing
through the ruddy brown of his country complexion.
Indelible signs of his vigils in the
quarry were beginning to be imprinted on the
malleable iron of John Prior's outward man,
and would never leave it till it fell away in the
blurred powerlessness and hopelessness of
death, after its first hard, cold seal had been
pressed down, had settled for a time, and then
yielded to the decay of all mortal things.

CHAPTER III.

REDCOT INTERIOR, AND THE WOMEN OF THE
FAMILY.

John Prior walked to his house across a corner
of what was more an old-fashioned paddock,
with extensive shrubberies girdling a lawn intersected
by an avenue of lime trees, than anything
so imposing as a park.

Redcot was of some antiquity, but no great
dignity, unless that of age and rambling space.
The building had been a farm-house at one
time, but so venerable a farm-house that it
became, after all, a question whether the place
did not date back to a homely manor-house in
the days when the lines between yeomen,
squires, and farmers were by no neans so sharp
as in later generations. Picturesqueness had

not been aimed at in the low square building
put down in a hollow, and encumbered with
offices  some of which had been cleared away,
while others, though empty and disused, remained
a monument of the unhesitating simplicity
of our ancestors, who were not ashamed
of their apple rooms and cheese-rooms, their
barns and thrashing mills, their cow-houses and
pig-styes, any more than of their stables and
kennels, their dairies and poultry yards. The
greatest improvement after the removal of the
said cow-house and pig-stye had been in the
gradual laying out of the lawn and shrubberies
until they had attained a respectable amount
of order and beauty  all the more attractive
that the style was a little antiquated with stack-shaped
hollies and gable-pointed yews, and a
pleasant garden opening out of a cunning
labyrinth of shrubs. The scene was not marred
in any way by Mr. Prior's pits. These were
out of sight, sound, and smell, miles away on
Kershaw Moor. Indeed, although mines and

miners were at the root of the family prosperity
or adversity, they did not come to any great
extent into the Priors' outward life.

The house was not heavily draped like the
quarry. There was a prejudice a century or
two ago against ivy and clematis, jessamine and
roses, as promoters of damp, and nests for
wasps, spiders, and earwigs. That prejudice
rode roughshod over whole sets of utilitarian
and straightforward householders. One advantage
of the absence of creepers was that the
brick walls were as mellow and mossy as the
garden wall, the passion for dryness having
fortunately stopped short of perpetual scraping,
pointing, and painting fiery-red. The windows
had retained their stone mullions and small
panes, as if in obliging anticipation of the freak
of retrogression in modern taste, while, unencumbered
by leaves, the light was let into the
long, low-roofed rooms with a cheerful prosaic
candour, not so much approved by aesthetic
dogma.

No doubt it was from a mere accident that
so much remained the same within as well as
without at Eedcot. The master of the house
OQ coming to his kingdom had been indifferent
rather averse to change. His wife had entertained
a romantic reverence and affectionate
fondness for the early landmarks which had
come home to her personal experience. The
panelled rooms  oak in the dining-room, and
painted, in Philistine defiance of darkness, a clear
French grey in the drawing-room  were as John
Prior and his wife had found them, barring
necessary repairs and renewals. There had
been no complete clearing away of the original
furniture. The one room was full of heavy
mahogany and warm tinted damask. The other
was distinguished by spindle-legged rosewood,
pale brocade protected by paler chintz, and a
superabundance of glass and gilt decoration in
the form of mirrors and girandoles, chandeliers,
picture-frames, time-pieces, and tables lacquered
to their very legs. Additions had been made

not always harmoniously. The most subduing
element had been the hungering, softening
touches of time, fading here and dimming there,
till the whole had worn into a kind of tender
congruity. This was not fatally nmrred by the
pretended preciousness of the scalloped, inlaid
slabs, and the fluted yellow legs of the side
tables, or by the yawning mirrors over the prim
marble chimney-pieces, and over the various
doors of the room, reflecting pitilessly every
object it contained, from the brittle porcelain
basket on the cabinet, to the worked tulips and
wall-flowers on the hearth-rug.

John Prior came in by a side door into a
dark hall, where gun cases and fishing-rods
shouldered an umbrella stand and pegs for hats
and \Taps, and where stuffed birds kept in
countenance engravings too brown to be easily
distinguishable. There was one extraordinarily
staring wooden picture of Judas and his Master
which would have produced recoil in any spectator
of average feeling, had not familiarity

robbed the picture of all meaning. The squire
went straight to the drawing-room, advancing
with a shiver to the fire, which glowed with an
eclipsing lustre that seemed to ask the worsted
tulips and wall-flowers what they were doing
blooming there out of season ? John Prior
planted himself on the hearth rug, with his boots
not free from the clay of the quarry, set doggedly
on the tulips and wall-flowers. There was no
relaxation of his muscles or sigh of satisfaction.
In fact, he wanted more comfort than he got ;
he was looking round discontentedly at the
absence of any preparation for afternoon tea,
though five o'clock had not struck. He resented
the silence of the only other occupant of the
room, who had looked up on his entrance, and
then resumed her book. It was like the women,
he reflected in his bitterness, to make no provision
for his requirements, and to take no interest in
what was going on outside, though it might bea
matter of life and death to him, and through
him to them in their carelessness and heartlessness.

Why she  she there sitting, engrossed
with her trashy novel, or her equally frivolous,
never-ending fancy work  fancy work, forsooth !
a fit occupation for a woman of her years ! or
with her old useless, pampered brute of a dog,
she knew perfectly, as well as he knew, that
Lambert Crabtree was boring for coal on Lads-love,
and any day might come upon it. Yet
she did not ask a single question as to what he
had heard and seen any more than if the boring
were going on at Timbuctoo, or than if she had
no more to do with it than her great-grandmother
could have had. This was all the
sympathy that he met with. But if she were to
get a letter from her jackanapes and fool of a
son telling her that his little finger ached, the
whole house would hear of it.

It did not signify in the least, in the temper
J john Prior was in, that he frequently refused to
look at afternoon tea, and that, the last time
Mrs. Prior had ventured to inquire as to the
result of the boring at Ladslove, he had angrily

VOL. I. D

protested, How should he know? She had
better write to Susie, or Crab tree himself, and
that would be going to headquarters  and not
pester him. The subject was not particularly
agreeable, and he had worries enough without
this being continually dinned into his ears, &c.,
&c.

The offending Mrs. Prior did not look, on
the most casual glance, like a woman deficient
in natural feeling, though there was a certain
patient peacefulness in her air and surroundings
which might not be without its provocation to
an irascible man. For a soft answer, contrary
to the verdict of King Solomon, is sometimes
the most aggravated offence to an angry disputant.


Mrs. Prior had never been, strictly speaking,
a pretty woman. Her dress was old-fashioned
a lace shawl over a dark cashmere gown, and
a soft white cap, shading silver-streaked hair.
Everything was perfectly neat and by no means
unbecoming to her tall, slight figure, and sallow,

delicately-outlined face, but the effect of the
whole was that she looked older than she really
was. She gave the impression that she must
always have seemed rather homely and old-fashioned,
with a sweet homeliness and 
that might have been one of her
charms to a certain order of mind, especially
when there was plenty of intelligence and no
lack of gentle breeding in the simple plainness
and dash of quaintness.

;Mrs. Prior's grey eyes were a little faded,
but there lingered a light in them which contradicted
the inference that there had ever been
anything lymphatic or lifeless in the loyal conservatism
and unaffected genuineness of the woman.
On the contrary, a reader of physiognomy might
have guessed that the native sprightliness which
in this age of sentimental analysis and sublime
discontent with the whole structure of the universe,
moral as well as physical, is fast becoming
a lost feminine grace, had been one of Mrs.
Prior's out-of-date attractions long ago. She

D 2

might have had enough to say in her youth,
though the was inopportunely silent at the
present moment ; and though the vestiges of
her early vivacity were only to be detected by
sharp eyes, and just pulled themselves together,
as it were, and came to the front again by fits
and starts.

In truth, Mrs. Prior had been left behind by
most of her children. The eldest daughter,
Alice, had married much earlier than her mother,
and had seen far more of the world, having
gone to India with her husband. She had even
been called on to face the great mystery of death
at a date before that at which ]airs. Prior had
become a woman by right of the love passages
between her and John Prior. Susie had
possessed from her babyhood more triumphant
worldly wisdom than her mother had acquired
in all her fifty-five years. Jane, the youngest
girl  still a girl and still at home  had kept her
terms at a ladies' college, and was one of the
earned products of the age. Only Jack, the

one son with his father's plain face and his
mother's serene, sunny nature, did not drift
away from her, but continued faithfully on the
same level. And Jack Prior was foredoomed
to be a scapegrace if it were but by his father's
extreme disappointment because the son in
whom he had centred his hopes showed no
sign of retrieving in some unexplained manner
the falling fortunes of the family. There was
small justice in punishing Jack, because he did
not fulfil unreasonable expectations for which
the boy had given no warrant. But men like
John Prior, the elder, however just in theory
are seldom fair in practice.

In place of confirming the extravagant ideas
entertained of him, young John Prior, disheartened
and almost driven desperate by his
father's irrational displeasure, brought back a
greater reputation for scrapes and debts than
for honours from college, and drifted about ina
desultory fashion, wasting his time among
friends with whom he was wonderfully popular,

who saved him from the hard necessity of living
under the bight of his father's anger. At last
Jack put the crown on his volatile follies rather
than serious errors by suddenly taking what
appeared an idle vagrant step in a lad who
owned no more money than the allowance which
his father could ill afford. The heir of Eedcot
went off on a voyage to Australia, without any
apparent intention of becoming a colonist.

Mrs. Prior was forsaken even by Jack, except
for the solace of the letters he sent to her,
which, to do him justice, had come with tolerable
regularity and frequency hitherto. She
was left to her low wicker chair in a particular
corner by the Eedcot drawing-room hearth in
winter, and by a special window in summer, to
her intermitting supply of novels, her interminable
needlework, and her dog Tommy. The
last was a superannuated, not particularly amiable
blue Skye terrier. He had been in his
bloom the children's cherished playfellow. He
had even been a not unwelcome companion of

the children's father when Tommy had been the
most active and joyous of rabbit-hunters and
matters. In those days Mrs. Prior's domestic
happiness was also in its bloom, as she sometimes
said, comparing notes with Tommy in an
aside half-pathetic, half-tenderly humorous, in
accordance with the nature of the woman. But
the dog's time of nimbleness and unclouded
ardour in sport was over, just as the woman
was taken down from the pinnacle which most
mothers aid mistresses of households occupy atone
period of their lives  an elevation of unapproachable
wisdom and cleverness in the eyes
of their offspring and dependants. Then a
younger generation, with new standards and
different wants, arises to pronounce with more
or less impatience and carelessness or reverent
reluctance, and regretful gentleness, that their
predecessors are antiquated and insufficient in
their ideas and capabilities.

When Mrs. Prior found herself thus outstripped
in the race of life by her daughters,

there was undoubtedly a considerable amount
of mild dignity in the manner in which she
withdrew from the unequal contest, and ensconced
herself in an elderly woman's fragment
of a kingdom She showed herself resolute and
almost satisfied to wait till these well-armed
children of hers had need of her again. For
deep down in the mother's heart there was a
conviction, half proud, half humble, and wholly
tender and true, that human life was hardly
likely to run its course without her human skill
and experience, of so little account at present,
coming into request once more.

It had been far worse for Mrs. Prior, and
had caused an unfeeling wound in her heart,
to know that she was gradually becoming
alienated from her husband. The reason for
this was partly because her nature could not
always touch his in the painful conditions under
which he lived, but chiefly because she would
not give up her son, whom he was doing his
best to goad to destruction. The permanent

good understanding and unshaken faith between
mother and son, in spite of what John Prior
considered his ample grounds for complaint and
indignation, exasperated him. He was still
farther hurt by his grievous knowledge that all
harmony between him and Jack was at an end,
and that the father's confidence in the lad was
gone as entirely as the elder man's high hopes
and vaulting ambition.

Settled resentment was very difficult for
Mrs. Prior, and the process by which it was
brought about exquisitely painful to her. But
she did continue to resent her husband's attitude
towards their son. The resentment, however,
did not alter the fact that her woman's nature
was in its very susceptibility and delicacy more
liberal and juster than the far stronger, but at
the same time more headstrong and self-centred,
nature of the man. She made allowance for
him, so that in the middle of her dumb anger
her heart sometimes ached for her husband with
a positive intensity of aching.

John Prior stood fuming on the flowery
hearth-rug. Mrs. Prior sat entrenched among
her belongings. At one side of her was the
basket with the rolls of linen and skeins of silk
for the quilts which she had been embroidering
ever since anybody could remember. Jane
alleged with quiet disdain that any weaver could
have woven better in a week at the most. At
Mrs. Prior's elbow was her special book-case, in
which the works of her favourite authors and
the last volumes received from Muche's were
ranged. At the other side Tommy was stretched
in slightly apoplectic slumber, while he was
carefully sheltered from the danger of stray
kicks. Every now and then she turned over a
leaf of the book on which her eyes were fixed,
where it lay in the comfortable hollow of the
lap, formed by the raising of the small feet 
hardly larger than Susie's  as they rested side
by side on their footstool.

But though Mrs. Prior's attention appeared
placidly concentrated on her own concerns, her

interest, even in an unusually good story, was
by no means so great as to hinder a whole undercurrent
of perturbed reflections and thronging
anxieties, if John Prior could only have conceived
what lay beneath the unruffled surface.

It was cold comfort, Mrs. Prior thought, fora
man to come from the manifold troubles of
the outer vorld into his own house, and not receive
so much as a greeting given by those
nearest to him. But what could she do ? She
did not know what to say. When she had
spoken to him about this last torture the other
day she had only succeeded in galling him. If
she spoke on indifferent topics he would accuse
her in his mind, if not in his speech, of hypocrisy.
Would he never understand that respectful
silence might imply the most thoughtful and
considerate fellow-feeling and commiseration ?
If she closed her book, the action might imply
that she expected him to tell her something ;
and she could not, though she had been his wife
for thirty years, compel his confidence.

Would Jane never come in and ring for tea ?
Mrs. Prior was sure lier husband was thoroughly
chilled and craved a cup of tea this afternoon,
though he was apt to despise the womanish indulgence.
She might ring, of course, but it was
customary for Jane to appear at five and order
in tea. The hour had not yet struck, and Jane
would descend with widely-open eyes, and a
dignified inference that she had been disturbed
in important occupations ; while men hated the
least fuss  if anything, objected more to it than
to a slight delay.

Did John remember what addition there was
to be to the family party at dinner, and who
had proposed riding over in the ccmrse of the
evening ? Had he braced himself to bear the
encounter in the conflict that raged within him,
or had he forgotten the previous intimation, so
that the disagreeable ordeal would take him by
surprise ? She longed to give him a warning,
but she dared not do it. She Alas not prevented
by fear of his wrath, since no more courageous

spirit ever breathed than existed in that simple,
peaceable, determinedly cheerful woman, but
his bitter words smote her like so many stones,
and she not only smarted under them  they
made her feel ashamed for him in whom she had
once taken her greatest pride.

At last the clock struck five, and with the
striking Jane Prior walked in. She was over
the middle height and fairer in complexion than
the rest of her family, with an expression of
candour as well as of power of one sort on her
broad open forehead. There was a corresponding
look of sincerity in her somewhat cold blue
eyes, which met her neighbour's fairly and fully,
and in her full, straight, uncompromising mouth.
The expression was impressive, and rather
heightened her claims to being handsome. " A
fine girl " was the epithet which rose to one's
lips  well-grown, well-developed in every respect
 a healthy mind in a healthy body  a
character in which the intellectual predominated
over the emotional. Unless a mania for study

overthrew its balance, it could be safely trusted
to act logically and consistently.

Jane Prior was dressed with the strict
severity of the last utilitarian mode, as opposed
to the esthetic standard and to Paris fashions.
Her skirt was short, and not tight. She was
destitute alike of unnecessary puffing and
swathings. She had no butterfly bows and
streaming ends of ribbon, though she had well-tied
knots where knots were required, and the 
lace at her throat and wrists was as fresh and
dainty as need be. The severity of her costume
extended to the style in which her hair was
worn. She had an abundance of hair, which
had been flaxen in childhood, and was now what
old-fashioned people call fawn or sandy-coloured.
It was turned back from the square forehead,
and wound round the head by the simplest, most
orderly arrangement possible, which took the
least time to accomplish, and when it was accomplished,
was nearly incapable of disarrangement
by hat or bonnet, or even by pre-occupied

hands pushing it from the temples, or restless
fingers thrust through the tight folds. Altogether
Jane's toilet suited her admirably. She
would have been out of place in trailing robes
or caught up flounces, such as Susie affected, in
accordance with the last inspiration of her artist
friends or her French modiste. Jane would have
looked still worse  actually grotesque, with
Susie's fondly-trained fringe straying in artful
artlessness to the verge of her arched eyebrows.
But the result, if arrived at by any consciousness
of Jane's, was the fruit of an instinctive sense of
fitness which belonged to the girl, and not of
any elaborate consideration.

Jane Prior came into the drawing-room looking
straight before her, and, going directly to
the bell, rang for tea. Yet, she had a little the
air as if she only saw in part what was passing
around her  as if her mind remained busy with
some mathematical problem or metaphysical
question which she had lately been seeking to
solve. She stood' by the little table, which still

wanted its tray and cups, her hands hanging
down, loosely clasped before her, as silent,
though not as glum, as her father. The atmosphere
about her was meditative and engrossed,
though not so as to cause her to forget the hour
or neglect her duty of being there to ring for tea
and pour it out.

No light girlish chat was to be expected
from Jane ; something more valuable perhaps,
but not the current coin so easily exchanged in
the intercourse of daily life. If she spoke just now
U would be to make some brief unanswerable
observation as to whether the water was boiling,
or the cream as it should be, for Jane, though
verging on asceticism in her personal tastes and
practices, was strict in demanding the fulfilment
of household obligations. Or she would address
to her father some inquiry with regard to his old
college classes and classics, which he could not
refuse to answer, though at the present moment
he felt inclined to regard it as impertinent.

But it was Mr. Prior and not his daughter



who broke the silence, which was awkward and
constrained, between husband and wife, and
quite unconstrained and very much a matter of
course, where Jane was in question, between
filth er and daughter.

Where are the children ? ' he asked shortly,
as if he must find iiult with something in the
circumstances, though if they had been altered
in one respect it would have been the presence
and not the absence of the children to which
he would have objected.

They cannot leave the school-room,' answered
Jane with calm decision. ' I have had
them near me the whole of the afternoon, yet
Ally has not been able to parse half a page,
Tom's spelling to dictation is frightful, and it
really looks as if that boy Sam were never to
know his letters. I wish I could give them more
time, and if nurse would only let them rise at
six instead of seven it might be managed.'

Here Mrs. Prior interposed, which she seldom
did now, even on behalf of her grandchildren,

VOL. I. E

whom Jane had appropriated m the most meritorious
manner. Indeed, Jane was doing so
much for her dead sister's children  taking so
great an interest in them  even sacrificing a
good deal that she prized highly on their account,
that Mrs. Prior, with her conscientiousness,
kindliness, and foresight, scrupled to interfere
between the young aunt and her charge.
Jane has earned a right to say what is best for
the poor little things, and though she makes
mistakes like all young rulers, she is remarkably
judicious on the whole, unless on this question
of education, where nurse has been a sufficient
check hitherto. The children will have Jane to
turn to when I have ceased to be of much use
to them ; their mother's contemporary is her
natural substitute, doubtless.' So thought Mrs.
Prior, and she contented herself with a casting
vote on the side of such grandmotherly indulgences
as Jane would hear of. She felt called
upon to utter a remonstrance to-day, and either
because of the rarity of the remonstrance, or

because it was a welcome reminder of what, if
Jane conducted the matter in her own way, as
she was tolerably sure to do  would certainly
be a relief to her, the interference was received
very graciously.

You get up too early already, my dear,'
said her mother, ' and the children need more
sleep than you do. Wait till they get their
governess, and she will set these troubles to
rights.'

Yes ; I find I must begin immediately to
look out for a governess,' chimed in Jane, briskly.
The difficulty is where to get a thoroughly
good one, for I will have no make-shift  no
poor creature of a nursery governess with a
little bad music and worse French to cover her
boundless ignorance. I am determined the
children shall be well grounded from the very
beginning.'

Humph ! ' was all the remark John Prior
made on this praiseworthy stipulation, and a
very sarcastic ' humph ! ' it was. He remem-

E 1

LIBRARy

UNIVERSITY Q Illinois

bred the gratified pride with which he had first
discovered his little daughter Jane's unusual
amount of brain power, and the interest he had
taken in its proper development. What had it
all come to ? It had rendered Jane unlike other
girls  at least the girls he had known  a gain
doubtful in itself. She was self-reliant, certainly,
but the self-reliance was not always agreeable.
She was constantly occupied with her studies,
and seemed to follow the pursuit of knowledge
with unflagging zest. She did not seek for other
entertainment than she could procure for herself
at small cost. She had excellent health,
in spite of her occasional eccentricities and absurdities.
But, after all, her mind and memory
were not better endowed and equipped than the
average mind and memories of fairly intelligent
and industrious undergraduates. Yet she was
an exceptional woman for the other women like
days to peck at, who had not been able to escape
entirely a shade of self-consciousness and
pedantry, though being the real not the fictitious

woman of culture, lie was as free from
such objectionable qualities as could reasonably
have been expected.

But John Prior had never been reasonable
in his expectations, and he had not counted on
the possible loss involved in Jane's acquirements.
Neither was he reasonable in his apprehensions.
He never knew when Jane might not make some
extravagant display of the student or professor
in petticoats, when she might not propose to
quit Eedcot and the protection of her father and
mother, in order to take the head of a grammar
school for girls, if such a place existed, or such
an appointment came in her way. He should
not like it, though he was, according to his own
belief, to a great extent free from class prejudices,
and though his youngest daughter was neither
particularly useful  apart from her care of the
little Woods  nor particularly ornamental at
home, neither could she be said to contribute
much to the sociality of the family. If it had
been her brother who inherited Jane's brains

something might have come of them, and Jane
might have had Jack's senselessly light-hearted
temper and dangerously-accommodating ways,
which were worse than useless in a man, with
some advantage to a woman and a stay-at-home
daughter. But, then, everything had gone
wrong with the squire of Eedcot, even to the
distribution of character and ability among his
children. John Prior was not an irreligious or
irreverent man, and there had been a time when
his faith and his views of life had been in harmony
; but they seemed to have passed into
hopeless discord.

CHAPTEE lY.

SUSIE AND LAMBERT CRABTREE.

Before tea was over, a sudden stir in opening
doors and advancing steps became audible in
the Eedcot drawing-room. Susie Crabtree entered
in the easiest, most graceful manner, with
the most perfect security of a welcome. She
brought in with her as the very atmosphere
which surrounded her, in which she lived and
breathed, a totally different influence from what
had been there before she came.

Susie Crabtree was a very pretty little
woman by nature. She was past her first youth,
but she did her best by the adventitious aid of
a choice and elaborate toilet, which more than
supplies the early graces time steals away, in

the eyes of many thousands of women, and of
not a few men  though where the last are concerned
the substitute is only a vague charm to
tickle the male fancy.

Susie's beauty was of the daintiest, most
fragile order, apparently, though m reality she
had never known a day's illness that could not
have been satisfactorily accounted for in the
whole course of her life. She was small and
brown beside her younger sister, but the smallness
was a perfectly modelled fairy-queen sort
of smallness, and the brown was the soft richly-tinted
olive of a brilliant brunette. The almond-shaped
dark eyes, with their glance hovering
between a coquettish sparkle and a slightly
languishing repose, were in keeping with the
rest of the face. So were the other features.
The straight little nose was a trifle sharp, if it
had not been for the beauty of the line from
the brow, and the nostrils were thin and semitransparent.
The short upper lip curled, while
the under lip was just full enough to atone fora

suspicion of narrowness in the red streak
above it. The pearly teeth showed between.
The chin was round  a shade too round, threatening,
in conjunction with the low forehead, a
certain finer animalism as the years rolled on.

But the years had not rolled on as yet, and
Susie Crabtree was still little beyond the zenith
of her beauty, which was preserved and greatly
promoted, as she firmly believed, by the unstinted
thought and time and the lavish expenditure
of Lambert Crabtree's money freely
devoted to that end. They had procured her
bonnet, mantle, and gown from the most highly
esteemed sources.

For it must not be supposed that Mrs. Crab-tree
attempted anything by halves, or that she
could not accomplish what she wished in the
best manner possible. She was a clever as well
as a pretty woman of her kind  one who had
little to do with book learning beyond the fair
education for a woman of her rank. But this
was enough to lend her all she wanted  a

tolerable familiarity with the topics of the dayan
easy assumption of the tone of her society
whatever it might be, a curious tact, amount 
ing to mother wit, which picked up, assimilated,
and reproduced any scraps of the jargon of the
schools, any morsel of affectation of this or that
devotion to French criticism, German music, or
pre-Eaphaelite Italian art which", floating down
the generations, drifted into queer corners.
Anything so solid and thorough as Jane's knowledge
would have crushed Susie with her airs
and graces out of existence.

Susie Crabtree had still less moral force and
insight bred of largeness of heart, crystal-clear
uprightness and delicately-keen conscientiousness
than she had book-learning. But she had
no end of savoir faire and a good artistic taste,
barring that it was subservient to one class of
decorators and milliners, and one school of
American authors, oddly enough.

Mrs. Crabtree had been making some calls
of ceremony before she came on to her father's

place ; besides, she had no objection to exhibit
her most charming visiting costume to her
mother and sister. She had a secret impression
that they must admire and envy it, though
they did not seem very appreciative. Her
mother looked at Susie's dress and praised it,
certainly, but it was with a child's simple surprise
and pleasure, and, at the same time, with
the good-natured indulgence which a grown
woman might show to a child. Now, what
Susie wanted was intelligent admiration, and
a wistful craving  amounting to a flattering
grudge against the wearer of the clothes  to be
as beautifully and fashionably dressed as the
wife of the county magnate, Lambert Crabtree,
the Xewton banker.

Some ecstatic women would have called
Susie's marvellously ' quiet,' but unapproachable,
bonnet ' a perfect love.' Nothing could
exceed the truth of the curves of her closely-fitting
mantle to the lines of her shapely figure.
The velvet material, with its deep border of rich

fur, was sumptuous without gorgeousness, and
though she was not tall enough to carry off
splendour by stateliness, she did it by sheer
elegance. The texture and hue of her gown
were equally commendable in their delightful
combination of softness, lightness, and a dead-leaf
duskiness, which was yet not ashen, but
shot through and through with mellow russet.
Her many-buttoned gloves and boots followed
suit, so did her exquisite muff. There could be
no doubt that Susie Crabtree was exceedingly
well-dressed, according to the present artistic
but not altogether rational or convenient fashion,
and she beamed brightly out of her dress one
of the prettiest women in the county. As this
was the object of her ardent desires, its attainment
contributed largely to her satisfaction.

For that matter, Susie was an extremely
well satisfied woman in nearly every respect.
She had not all that she could wish, but she had
almost all that was within her reach, and she
was far too astute in worldly wisdom to cry for

the moon. As a proof of her moderation, she
was only slightly disturbed on the present occasion
by an irresistible, unwelcome conviction
which occurred to her. Her unmarried sister
had made the huge blunder of electing to be
that odd personage  altogether undesirable,
though less hooted at now than formerly a
full-fledged blue-stocking ; and here she was
coolly regarding Susie's matronly honours and
graceful magnificence without a particle either
of fascination, homage, or aching covetousness.
Susie did not deceive herself in reference to
Jane's feelings, but neither did she trouble herself
to resent them. She was too contented to
be cross, and liked popularity too well to make
herself disagreeable. There might be something
insolent in her happiness, founded as it was on
her success in life, to unhappy and unfortunate
people ; but the insolence was in the source of
the happiness, not in the manner of its expression.


Susie tripped into the Eedcot drawing-room

neither too fast nor too slow, so as not to miss
something gliding in her gait. She kissed Mrs.
Prior and Jane with due aiFectionateness, put
up her face with filial fondness for her father to
kiss, then subsided into her chair to be much
made of, to make much of her relatives in a way
that was hard to resist. 'Here I am, mamma
and papa.' Susie retained the old childish
terms which Jane had renounced long before.
Mrs. Crabtree even gave them an additional
babyishness  an affectation borrowed from some
cf her American cousins. She pronounced
papa pa-pa, and mamma mam-ma. 'I am so
glad to see you both, with Janie into the bargain.
How are the babies But I need not
ask, for I saw the Httle heads tolerably ruffled,
in the matter of hair, through the schoolroom
window as I passed. Oh ! dear ; I wish you
would, some of you, come down to Newton
and manage our babies, since they are quite too
much for Lamb and me. They are never to be
found in the nurseries  you know, the children

roam all over the house. Yesterday Molly
called me Simple Susan to my face, and Piers
clenched his fist at Lamb Then followed
more chatter. ' Oh ! mam-ma, dear, I had better
tell you at once that you must excuse me, for
I have no change of dress with me. I must sit
down to dinner as I am, if you will sit down to
table with me. Of course I can lay aside my
bonnet and mantle, and Janie may let me have
a fichu. I was uncertain up to the last moment
whether Lamb could get rid in time of that
nice old Mr. Hutchinson, who comes over about
bank business, and must stay to dinner. I
ought to have stayed too, and I should really
have liked to entertain the old gentleman, he is
so deliciously gallant and courtly, but I had
promised to come to you. Only, if Lamb had
not been able to ride over and escort me back,
I must have begged off, though I should almost
have broken my heart. One has so little good
of the moon in such cloudy Weather, and the
roads are so heavy for the horses ; and, what is

after all the true state of the matter, I am such
a timid little goose.'

There was not a grain of feeling, shy or
abashed, in Susie's manner  not a hint of being
aware of the fact that her husband was at that
moment poaching, as it were, on what had
been the Eedcot preserves  the sole coal-mines
in the district for three-quarters of a century.
There was not a shade of distress that his
success in the search he was carrying out at
Ladslove must mean sooner or later ruin to the
Priors.

There was not a Prior there  least of all
John Prior  who could help feeling astonished
by the ease and fluency with which Susie ignored
the crow to pluck between the two houses. It
was a pleasant philosophy that partook of effrontery.
But, on second thoughts, every Prior,
from the oldest to the youngest, was ready to
admit that Susie's conduct was not only the
best policy ; it was the least disturbing under
the circumstances. The family felt relieved by

it. They went near to owing her gratitude for
it. Mrs. Prior and Jane began to talk, so far as
to meet Mrs. Crabtree's amusing chat on the
topics of the neighbourhood, and, with a slightly
wider range, of the day, the whole having just
the dash of purely personal and trivial details
such as the behaviour of her babies, the next
dinner she was going to, the club book she was
reading  which kept it from sounding stilted
and forced. Even Mr. Prior chimed in with a
sentence occasionally.

Have you heard that the Marlowe are
going abroad in February ? ' said Susie, as
fresh tea was brought for her.

'Yes, Mr. Marlowe told me yesterday,'
answered Mrs. Prior, stroking down the lace
at her cuffs, as she had a habit of doing.

It is devoutly to be hoped,' continued
Susie, with her lavish friendliness, ' that Mr.
Marlowe will benefit much more by his flight
from the spring east winds than he did last
year. I have given her all sorts of .

I. P

sons, though people do say you get things as
good and cheap at home nowadays. I daresay
they are right. I daresay it is not an
invention of the British tradesman.'

'Have you heard whether Arthur Norris
has taken a scholarship at Oxford ? ' asked
Jane, while Susie dawdled with her cup.

Yes ; a Balliol scholarship  the best going.
His uncle is very much pleased ; so is everybody,'
declared Susie, sympathetically, ' and I
should be enchanted if he needed help. However,
his comparative wealth is unavoidable, and
is not to be regretted otherwise. Besides, Mr.
Norris says that where rich and poor alike go
in for scholarships, it prevents their bestowal
becoming a mere charitable institution, and
lends them dignity. I'm sure I don't know
about the dignity, but I'm ready to take it on
Mr. Norris's word.'

'Why did Arthur not enter his father's
college? George Norris was an Oriel man,'
objected Mr. Prior.

'I can't tell, pa-pa. I daresay he thoiiglit
Balliol more aristocratic, or influential, or something.
Oh, Jane, do you know I am so delighted
with the recent discoveries at Herculaneum ! 
another tomb, and a torso of Hercules freshly
excavated.'

I think you are mistaken,' said Jane, with
sensitive exactness. ' The tomb is at Baiae and
the torso is of Bacchus.'

Ah, well,' assented Susie in careless acquiescence.
' No doubt you are right. Lamb and
I saw the place, I know. These are treasures
of which we cannot have too many. I say,
pa-pa, what do you think of the prospects of
the English in Egypt ? That is what it comes
to, is it not, though we give ourselves out as the
arbiters and peacemakers of the universe ?
Lamb says politics are beyond me ? '

They are beyond most of us, Crabtree
included,' exclaimed John Prior, a little impatiently,
throwing himself into his chair.

I am not so sure of that,' maintained Susie,

artlessly, ' when I think that Piers may grow
up to be a man and join one or other of the
services, and the Government has so much todo
with the army and navy.'

In voting supplies, do you mean ? ' asked
John Prior, raising his eyebrows. But Susie
was off on a new tack.

Mam-ma, can you give me a cure for
Molly's sucking her thumb . '

So it ran on in an enlivening, almost refreshing
flow, to which the Priors contributed a drop
or two occasionally.

In spite of himself John Prior was diverted
from his care, soothed by the diversion and
gently titillated. He came, indeed, under
Susie's spell, not without a vague sense of
self-contempt and a fresh sting dealt by memory.
There had been a time when he had
been fool enough to hug himself on his
charming little daughter's beauty and her
winning ways as she grew from childhood to
girlhood. Then he had been deeply mortified

and aggrieved by what he had been
powerless to prevent  her throwing herself
away on Lambert Crab tree. Now, while lie
still retained some of the intoxicating elements
of her beauty, her graciousness and her
folly, which had more cleverness, of a kind,
about it, than other women's wisdom possessed,
it was a case of 

As the husband is, so the wife is.

It was worse. The father felt forced to see
that there was really no mental or moral deterioration
in Susie. In the spring-time of her
attractions his child and her mother's child had
never been actually above Lambert Crabtree in
spiritual fibre. The marriage had been a clear
instance of like drawing to like. The idea was
detestable to John Prior.

Lambert Crabtree did not hesitate to lookin
for a few moments at Eedcot in the course
of the evening. He came over ostensibly with
the good-natured purpose of quieting his wife's
nerves by riding home at the side of her

carriage. Yet lie was not ordinarily a gallant,
though he was an exceedingly indulgent husband.
He gave Susie what she had bargained
for in the marriage. She repaid him in the
same coin. When the transaction was completed
they did not see much of each other.
They appeared to have tacitly agreed to go
their several ways  which were not similar
ways  as independently as any couple like
them, who are still on perfectly amicable terms.
Susie was thankful that she had escaped
the narrowing circumstances at Eedcot with
the growing morbidness and moodiness of her
father's temper. She was highly gratified by
her kingdom at Newton. Lambert Crabtree
got from Susie all that he wanted. He
remained proud of her beauty and pleasantness.
He appreciated her sense in not asking
from him what he could not give. Still these
terms, excellent as they were so far, were hardly
the kind which cause a husband to take a lone
ride after the work and worry of the day, in

order to share an expedition of his wife's, and
have an hour or so more of her society.

Susie's husband was big and red, with prominent
light eyes. He was fifteen years older
than his wife, while he affected a somewhat
youthful, sportsman-ike style of dress, was fond
of white cords, coloured vests, and coloured
neckties, and altogether was coarse-looking fora
man of gentle birth. He did not take off his
riding-coat, and came into the Eedcot drawing-room
with his whip hanging out of one pocket.

John Prior received his son-in-law with
scrupulous politeness, though he would not come
to close quarters with him. Lambert Crabtree's
tactics were totally different from his wife's. In
place of strictly avoiding any allusion in the
conversation between the two men to the cause
of mortal offence the younger was giving ; in
place of getting up a mist and glamour of indifferent
talk on every conceivable topic, the
intruder would have approached the subject
with constitutional brazenness and bluster, and

endeavoured to have made his own out of it.
He was quite capable of saying, ' You know
business is business, Prior. We men understand
that we must look after our own interests, and
leave the devil to pay. We need not pretend
to mawkish sentiment because we cannot avoid
treading on each other's corns as we go our
various ways.'

It was more than probable that the Priors
owed the brief pleasure of Lambert Crabtree's
company to some half formed intention of taking
the bull by the horns, to serve the challenger's
ends. One of Susie's witty affectations was to
call her husband invariably by a pretty abbreviation
of his name, which was grotesquely inappropriate.
'Wolf would have been more
like the man, John Prior had growled, ' net that
Susie is anything of a Need Ending Hood.'

But John Prior was slightly prejudiced.
The big red-faced banker of squire descent was
nearer a bull-dog ; he had nothing of the
nobility of a mastiff hanging on like grim death

to his prey. There was a certain bkiffuess ia
his business which, to be sure, went a long way
with some people in persuading them of his
honesty, and a clumsiness in his utmost cunning
that disarmed invidious suspicion, but which
nevertheless did not belong to the true wolf or
fox breed.

Mr. Prior had no difficulty in distancing
Crabtree, when he made such obviously tentative
speeches as 'Nasty raw weather, bad for
field operations of all kinds. Push and pluck
are nowhere in such an atmosphere. Nothing
but hunting keeps a man's blood in circulation.
Hang it ! the poor devils who have to stand
about on your coal hills and pit heads which I
passed on my ride are to be pitied unless they
keep up jolly furnace fires and have recourse to
them every five minutes. Can you trust them
to stick to their machinery night and day?
Don't you find them sending you very blank
reports under the depression of such a long-continued
beastly chill ? '

The person appealed to would not swallow
the bait and open fire on his grievance.
He would not fling out the sneering retort
'Boring is not warmer work than stacking
coal  is it ? ' His reply was strictly to the
point, while it was as freezing as the air complained
of.

No, the weather don't signify to speak of.
The men are accustomed to exposure, and for
those who are below ground the temperature is
much the same at all seasons.'

His stern impassiveness and his adhering to
his own side of the question baffled his assailant,
who could bully or swagger, or even cajole
a little, but who could not go about the bush to
any purpose. He was forced to turn aside to
Mrs. Prior and Jane, ' How goes the last novel,
mamma ? ' he also said mamma with a cool assumption
of intimacy. ' Tommy not showing
any symptoms of mange, I hope ? It is as well
that young beggar Piers does not come in his
way. Half the dogs in Newton have had to be

choked ofT the little rascal  he will grab at their
tails.'

Dear me I that is not safe for the child,
cried Mrs. Prior, rising to the peril of her grandson.
' Why does his nurse let him ? Susie, are
you sure the servant  is it Marianne still ?  is
trustworthy ? '

Sure, mam-ma,' declared Susie, with a melodious
laugh. ' It is Marianne still, and she is
as good as gold. It is too bad of Lamb to
frighten you.'

Do Tommy and Sammy never give you
scares . ' inquired Mr. Crabtree, innocently.

Tom and Sam are accustomed to do as they
are bidden,' interposed Jane, with dignity ;
and they do not think there is any particular
manliness or any great fun in teasing animals.'

Ah ! they are under your superior training,
Jane. Why don't you come over to Newton
and give Piers a lesson . Neither Susie nor I
would be in the least jealous. But I forget the
loss of time in tackling these wretched children.

What cube root are you extracting at this date,
Aunt Jane ? Who is the old classic humbug to
whom you are going down on your knees ?
Ladies do nothing by halves. The hoary sinners
were never tired flooring me until I made
up my mind to leave them to the dust of ages.
Or do you go in for science at present  fixed
stars, artesian wells, the law of gravity in motion,
or some other impractical balderdash ? '

From the specimen of the badinage which
always formed a large part of Lambert Crab-tree's
social intercourse with the women of his
acquaintance, it maybe judged that his particular
kind of manliness  well enough born and
bred as lie was  did incline to exhibit itself in
teasing something young people, or cats and
dogs. It may be guessed from whom his little
son Piers inherited some of his infantile propensities.


Come along, Susie ; we must start without
farther loss of time,' was rather a grateful sound
to Lambert Crab tree's kindred by marriage.

But, Oil the whole, Mrs. Prior was disposed
to hope a perilous visit had passed off tolerably
well till John Prior burst out, the moment the
door was closed, with the fierce protest  ' If
Susie cannot come here by herself, she had better
stay away. If she will bring that big brute and
blackguard  I tell you he is a blackguard as
well as a brute,' in angry answer to an unspoken
protest in the horrified look of his wife  ' I
have suspected it all along  I am sure of it at
last  T must make myself scarce. It must be
either he or I. The same house, if it is my
house, shall not hold us both.'

Mrs. Prior said nothing. She did not know
what to say that could do any good.

Jane opened her eyes wide in deprecation.
As is usual with the young, she sat in judgment
without hesitation. Her father's violence struck
her as equally uncalled for and unbecoming.
She was not undutiful or deficient in attachment
to him. She was a good deal more capable of
veneration than that pretty, pleasant little creature

Susie had ever been. Jane did not like to
blame either of her parents ; but she did wish
that her father could see things in a more
philosophic light, that he could preserve a more
philosophic attitude. It was hard for him of
course that Susie's husband should take it into
his head to bore for coal on Ladslove ; but even
if the coal were found, it would only be a diminution
of income at Eedcot. Jane presumed
there would still be enough for the necessaries
of life. Many a sage and scholar had possessed
less, had been the poorest of the poor, without
fret. The mere hkehhood of poverty was surely
not enough to cause fuss and strife.

CHAPTER Y.

m SEARCH OF AN 'ADMIRABLE CRICHTON.'

Jane Prior set about her inquiries for a
governess on behalf of the little Woods in the
most exhaustive fashion. The children were
young, and were still only in the elementary
stage of their education ; but Jane had determined
that the rudiments should be well seen
to. She was an ardent supporter of the modern
opinion that the foundation is of paramount
importance, and that the insufficient foundations
laid by incompetent hands are largely accountable
for the failure in general knowledge, even
in general capacity, of the present generation.

Jane went far to believing that a thorough
acquaintance with philology is necessary for

the proper teaching of the alphabet. She
must have had a hankering for the first letters
to be Greek or Hebrew, but here her commonsense
interposed. She was determined at least
that poor Alice's children should have the
chance of becoming deeply erudite prodigies of
all-round ' culture. They should have such
advantages as Jane herself had not enjoyed.
Yet her father and mother had done the best
they knew of for her. John Prior had even
taken pains, when he learnt the talents and
tastes of the girl, to impart something of his
own college training to her, by making her
read along with her brother Jack under a
Cambridge coach of some eminence.

But then this was comparatively late in
Jane's life, and she still suffered, as she honestly
believed, from having been taught her letters by
Alice and Susie's old governess. She had been
an exemplary, old-fashioned lady, who was so
inconsistent as to pique herself on her proficiency
in such modern languages as French

and Italian, when she had never been taught a
word of Latin, who could triumphantly produce
a musical certificate from a German conservatorium,
but whose arithmetic was not strong
enough to have secured her a situation as
bookkeeper in any tradesman's shop.

Jane, with an almost pathetic sense of her
latent deficiencies from early neglect, went
about her search for an efficient governess,
where her small niece and nephews were
concerned, in the most earnest, methodical
manner, profoundly impressed as she was with
the importance of the appointment. Nothing
moved her. She was unscathed by her father's
sarcasms on the uselessness and the cost of the
acquisition. For Alice Prior had married a
man in the civil service who had not been very
fortunate in his career and was still struggling
up-hill in his profession, so that John Prior had
undertaken as a matter of course the rearini]
of the children sent home to their dead mother's
relatives.

VOL. I. G

Mrs. Prior's natural alarm at the intrusion
of another learned woman into the family fell
still more flat. Jane told her mother with the
utmost conviction that not only would a female
Porson condescend to teach the young idea
how to shoot without a thought of condescension
; she would be struck by a grand comprehensiveness
of the undertaking, which would
have utterly escaped the shallow conclusions
of pert frivolous ignorance. Then why did
Jane herself not devote all her energies to the
noble enterprise, and sacrifice everything else ?
Just because Jane did not feel equal to it. She
was by no means fully equipped as yet ; she
had a great deal of solitary study before her,
ere she could aspire to have fairly grappled 
even grappled  with the branches she had
taken up, and she had that lamentable instability
of foundation which she was afraid would
cripple her to the day of her death.

Jane could also assure her mother, and
here Mrs. Prior was more inclined to believe

her daughter, that she might depend upon
finding the female Person simpler in her habits,
more easily served, than nine-tenths of the
unfortunate, pretentious, badly educated fine
ladies driven by adversity to earn their living,
who swell the lists of the great incompetent.
These ladies were very inferior to poor old
Miss Eossiter, with her good music and her
halting arithmetic. Yet Miss Eossiter had been
a little hard to please as to the boiling of
her egg for breakfast, and the shaking up of
her feather bed. But if the new comer were
like Jane, she would be simple enough in her
tastes.

Jane Prior was utterly impervious to the
light ridicule of Susie and the broader ' haw-haw'
mockery of Lambert Crabtree, who heard
their children conning their A, B, C to their
rustic nurse, and jabbering the most frightfully
illiterate French with Mrs. Crabtree's
maid.

Innumerable letters were written from the

school-room at Eedcot, over which Jane still
presided, with regard to its future mistress.
The most promising recent colleges for girls
were applied to. Searching investigations were
made into Lea. degrees, first and second classes,
examination papers, testimonials  very different
from the old courteous, kindly tributes to birth,
character, and moderate attainments which
were held amply sufficient in the dark ages.
Usually when everything was weighed and
sifted, there was some objection, some drawback,
on one side or other. For not only is
a vara avis difficult to find  the avis, in spite
of Jane's insistance on the modesty of intellectual
merit of the highest order, is apt to ask
a unique nest in proportion to its own uniqueness.
Several times the engagement was all
but completed, and fell through, either from
the stringency of Jane's demands as to the sum
of learning on the part of the candidate, or
from a corresponding rigidity on the other side
with regard to the sum in coin of a salary

which John Prior did not see himself justifiable
in making more than liberal.

Even Jane Prior's infinite capacity for
taking pains was sorely tried, and showed
signs of suddenly and ignominiously collapsing,
when the right woman presented herself at the
right time, as if by a special interposition
of Providence. Jane heard of a Miss Gray,
who, according to hearsay, was all Jane's fancy
painted the perfect governess or schoolmistress,
as the last development of the female teacher
prefers to be called, returning proudly to the
old unvarnished title. She had been trained ina
college of preceptresses ; she had passed more
or less stiff" examinations with credit, nay
distinction ; she had already gained some
experience as a teacher, though she was not
more than three and-twenty  Jane's own age.

Miss Gray was vouched for as the daughter
of a professional man of unexceptionable antecedents.
She had been early left an orphan,
with a patrimony that just sufficed to give her

an excellent education, consequently she had
been brought up to maintain herself.

In spite of Jane's burning zeal for loftier
attributes, she was not indifferent to the
consideration of Miss Gray's birth and early
associations. Jane Prior had at least her share
of the prejudices, so called, of her class.
Gray is a good name,' she said, dwelling on it
with satisfaction, ' though, of course, there are
Grays and Grays,' she wound up judicially, not
pausing to explain whether the Gray which
tended to whiteness or the other Gray, which,
running down in the scale, bore on blackness,
had to do with moral blamelessness and
turpitude, or simply ranged from aristocratic
to democratic proclivities.

Apparently nothing was lacking in Miss
Gray, and, for a wonder, the conscientiously
explicit statement with which Jane furnished
her as to terms, privileges, and the duties of
the post she was expected to fill at Eedcot, also
lacked nothing in her eyes. For that matter,

if Jane Prior had only known it, Miss Gray
had set her heart on coming to Eedcot even
more than Jane had set hers on securing the
phoenix. If it had not been for the shame of
the thing and for exciting suspicion, the all-accomplished
Miss Gray would have come
without costing Mr. Prior a farthing of salary
nay, would have paid a premium for the
coveted post.

Every preliminary was arranged, the day
was fixed for the lady's arrival ; the only thing
that remained to be done was for Miss Prior to
make use of the old phaeton, all that was left
available of the Eedcot carriages, to drive to
Newton and meet the stranger at the station.
Jane was punctilious in this piece of courtesy,
though it cost her a whole afternoon of Plato's
company. Mrs. Prior seldom went from home,
and even when the social duties were less her
daughter's particular business, Jane was tolerably
well accustomed to act, with a wry or
rueful face, as her mother's deputy. She was

determined Miss Gray should not find herself
treated from the first otherwise than as a valued
friend and guest of the family in which, it was
to be hoped, she would dwell for a period of
years.

The new comer was certainly in clover.
The expectations entertained of her acquirements
might be inordinately high ; the work
required of her might be greatly in excess of
what was necessary ; there might be imperative
reasons for her being scholastically on her
mettle. All the same, the days of her mourning
as a governess who was systematically
overlooked, or contemptuously hustled aside, or
even rudely snubbed, were ended. Whether
she fraternised with the unmarried daughter of
the house, as Jane for one ardently desired, or
not. Miss Gray might depend upon being
received with the respect due to learning  to
a competent instructress of youth. Jane would
no more have thought of slighting her niece
and nephews' governess, than an undergraduate,

however idle and thoughtless, would dream of
openly insulting a college tutor.

Therefore, while fully measuring the wrong
done to Plato, and the loss to herself, Jane
found a severe satisfaction in making the sacrifice
as complete as possible. She was at the
Newton Station in such good time that she had
to wait a quarter of an hour for the arrival of
the train ; but she did not spend the entire
interval pacing the platform in solitude, except
for the porters. Before the train was due Mrs.
Crabtree appeared. Of course, she was known
to the stationmaster  when it came to that, he
knew the whole neighbourhood. But while
Jane and he did not think it necessary to acknowledge
their acquaintance by more than a
slight bow on the one side and two fingers to
the hat on the other, Susie had to interview the
official graciously. She had to keep him stand -
inch talking to her in the dusk of the winter
afternoon.

Susie put little pertinent inquiries as to the

amount of traffic on the line, interspersing them
with small sympathetic regrets  amounting to
exclamations of personal distress, ' ]vir. Panton,
you don't say so. Oh, dear, oh, dear ! that is
too bad,' on the extent of his engagements.
She dropped accidental references, which gave
the impression that she knew all about his
family and connections, and their various walks
in life. She took one small delicately-gloved
hand from her sealskin muff, and occasionally
used it with the prettiest appropriate gesture.
Without departing a hair's breadth from her
place, she shone in her beauty, her gentle
breeding, and what he, like his betters, called
her ' smart clothes ' on the worthy man till she
turned his head. He forgot to the last moment
the obligations of his post. He had to run to
set matters straight, and appease the just
wrath of several commercial travellers, impatiently
standing aside till he had done listening
to the ' soft sawder ' of Crab tree the
banker's genteel, handsome wife. This was

exactly the result Susie counted on and cared
for.

Mrs. Crabtree was on the platform on some
trifling pretexts of half expecting friends from
London  these Miss Smiths who had disappointed
her so often, and of wishing to give a
note with her own hand to any messenger from
Eedcot who might be at the station. She protested
she had not hoped to see her sister.
You here, Jane ! ' she exclaimed with quite a
marked note of surprise, arching her fine eyebrows.


Yes, where else should I be ? ' demanded
Jane, with a flavour of asperity in her tone,
drawing down her straight light brown brows,
in decided contrast to those of her sister.

These two were always in contrast. They
had never understood each other or harmonised
together. True, Susie had married while Jane
was still a schoolgirl of fifteen  at the very
time she took her first plunge into study, and
was most engrossed by it. But from childhood

the sisters had not amalgamated or even bridged
over the gulf between their natures and tastes.
The pair had not quarrelled ; their interests had
never clashed. The women had agreed to
differ, but there had been little satisfaction in
the near relationship.

My mother, as you are aware, hardly ever
drives to Eedcot or anywhere else,' Jane went
on to say. ' My father only rides in on market
days, when he does ride in. We were not going
to let Miss Gray arrive without finding anybody
to meet her.'

I thought Eichard would have come.' Susie
mentioned the old coachman blandly. ' I meant
to have given him this note,' producing a tiny
cocked hat of paper ; ' but there is no need
tearing it to shreds and scattering them lightly.
You can tell mam-ma that I am in despair
because I have not found the cleaner's address
for her. I shall hunt all over the house, and
perhaps I may be more fortunate.' Then she
added, with still more obliging alacrity, ' If you

had sent me word I should have been delighted
to have come down and met Miss Gray in your
place. It would have saved you a cold, dark
drive.'

/ Thanks said Jane, not very cordially. ' I
don't know that it would quite have answered
the purpose  even though you had happened to
be here at any rate,' she ended, with a slightly
sarcastic emphasis. For both she and Susie
were sensible the real motive of Mrs. Crabtree's
presence was that she might have the opportunity
of satisfying her curiosity even about a
person of no more consequence in her eyes than
the little Woods' governess.

Do not let any mistake arise. Susie would be
thoroughly polite and kind, almost oppressively
kind, to Miss Gray, but it would not be as Jane
notwithstanding her strain of formality and
dryness  was friendly.

It was so late, the afternoon was getting so
dusky, and the smoky lamps of Newton Station
were so few and far between, that if Susie Crab-tree's

eyes had not been Argus-eyes, and her
observation  as far as it went  quick, keen,
and sure, she could have made very little of
what she saw when the train came in. A figure
in a hat and ulster alighting from a second-class
carriage, was pounced on by Jane Prior as if by
instinct, taken to the heap of luggage, and had
her trunks, with one exception, committed to
the care of the left-luggage man, to be called
for by the cart from Eedcot next day. Finally,
Miss Gray was ushered into the Eedcot phaeton,
established in it, and driven off with the
least possible delay, and the fewest words
of introduction or leave-taking between the
ladies.

Susie might have had her stroll to the station'
and the spoiling of the pleasant dawdling over
her afternoon tea for nothing, if she had not
been able to use her eyes in the dark like a cat

a pleasing animal she resembled in several

respects. But she was equal to the situation.
She took a few mental notes with lightning

rapidity, she conned them, after she had seen
the others start, while she was walking back
through the quiet streets of the old-fashioned
market town to the Bank House, with its
peculiar importance and dignity, out of sight
the best house in Newton ; Susie could not have
imagined herself living in any other in the
place. ' She is not altogether Jane's style,' reflected
Mrs Lambert Crab tree; 'she is not a
fright either  anything rather than that ; quite
a handsome, well-grown young woman in her
way, though it is not a way that I admire. She
has not the pre-occupied, independent, practically
unsettled air which usually distinguishes
these learned monsters and makes them detestable
to men. I don't think she is an oddity,
and as a rule such women are oddities whom
one can detect at a glance. She has not spectacles
on her nose like Cornea Climber, and
she is decently dressed  a plain ulster, but a
good cut, and really a nice hat. I should not
object to wear a hat like that any morning when

I was shopping. I wish Jane joy of her treasure.
I should not be surprised if Jane got a surprise
herself one of these days ; ' and Susie laughed
with a lively appreciation of the humour of the
anticipated shock.

CHAPTER VI.

A Syren ADVENTURESS.

In the meantime Jane and Miss Gray were
being whirled along the darkening roads with
as much speed as an elderly horse and an elderly
driver cared to accomplish.

I hope you will like Eedcot, Miss Gray,'
Jane was overcoming her shyness to say
cordially.

I am sure I shall,' the stranger responded,
with a fervour that might have startled Jane if
she had been endowed with Susie's gift of
observation. The speaker's ardour abashed
herself, the moment the eager tone, which was
th result of her repressed excitement, had
slipped from her. She sought to remedy the

VOL. I. H

blunder by recurring at once to the object of
her coming to Eedcot.

I am afraid it is too late for me to see my
little pupils to-night,' she suggested ; ' they will
be in their nursery by this time.'

Well, their nurse has absurdly dogmatic,
old-fashioned notions about their bedtime,' said
Jane. ' I daresay she will be putting the
children to bed before we reach home ; but they
are often in the schoolroom till their supper
hour. They are ridiculously slow in getting
their lessons done, yet I don't believe either
Ally or the boys have bad abilities, while I
have been anxious not to begin by shirking
anything.'

Miss Gray was silent. There was even a
little involuntary movement of her shoulders,
which was more like protest than assent.

'No doubt you will have a much better
method,' said Jane modestly. ' You understand
the science of teaching. You will remedy the
defects of my system.'

I'll do my best,' said Miss Gray quietly ;
but you must not expect too much from me.
If I understand some of the theories and a little
of the practice of teaching, you must know the
children as no stranger can know them . Children
are so different.'

Certainly, but you are not going to be a
stranger, and all children with the average
amount of brains can be taught a great deal
when it is done systematically. The thing is
for the pupils to acquire the habit of learning
at every moment, at every pore,' declared Jane,
rising to the occasion, and speaking not only
didactically, but with the enthusiasm which
was generally held more in reserve with her.

Miss Gray did not go on contradicting one
of her employers, the late directress general of
the little Woods' studies. Perhaps the newcomer
did not think that persisting in an
attitude of opposition would be either wise or
worth while. She had some experience of the
relations in which she stood to the expert

2

enter and the objects experimented upon,
and she might look upon Jane's excellent sentiments
pushed to extremity as a bushel of
theory which an ounce of practice would
reduce to its true proportions. Or she might
be too much occupied looking about her to
care to prolong a useless argument. She did
show a commendable desire to become acquainted
with her future surroundings. She
peered through the darkness as the couple
drove up the elm avenue. She paused a
second looking up at the weather-stained
house, and casting a rapid glance round the
lawn and shrubbery lit up by the open hall
door, as if she wished to take everything in
before she entered.

Jane acted as a pioneer in conducting her
companion through the labyrinths created by
the superfluity of pillars and furniture in the
hall ; took her past the ghastly Judas  ghastlier
than ever in the lamplight  up the stairs,
and decided that, as it was so late, it would be

better to show her at once to her room, and
leave her to make whatever change of toilet
was possible for her before dinner.

When IVliss Prior was gone, Miss Gray rid
herself of her encumbrances of hat and ulster.
Then, though she had been told she had only a
few moments to spare, she began to waste
them scandalously for a person supposed to be
endowed with the promptness and punctuality
so desirable in a teacher of babes. She stood
idly before the fire, busy only with her reflections.


Here was a better opportunity than Susie
Crabtre(3 had commanded at the station for
seeing what the young woman, standing alone
and off her guard, in the warm glow of the
hearth, was like. In the first place, Miss Gray
had not yellow hair, nor hair that by any
stretch of imagination could be called golden,
or even red; neither was it raven-black. Her
eyes were not violet, neither were they of inscrutable
darkness of hue. Her complexion

was not pink and white like daisies : far less
was it colourless as marble or creamy as ivory.
She was not divinely tall, or of a dainty smallness.
Yet she was fair to see, notwithstanding
these trying negatives and the other disheartening
facts Vvdiich have to be recorded. She was
about the middle size. Her hair was simply a
chestnut brown. Her eyes were nothing more
than hazel. Her colour was of such a healthy
depth as well as purity that it was in danger of
getting too red, as on the present occasion, and
spreading, as it had spread now, under the influence
of the cold drive, and of the sudden
transference to the genial warmth of the room,
to the tip of her chin. This chin was itself a
blemish in her face, for it was a little too
square for beauty. But her teeth were white
and regular. Her mouth was at once ripe,
red, and clearly cut, as charming as that of a
Norman peasant woman. Her nose was well
shaped, and the brows above her hazel eyes
were well marked, straighter than Susie Crab-tree's,

and more clearly defined than Jane
Prior's.

Miss Gray did not look in the least like a
Becky Sharp or a Lady Audley. She had all
the appearance of a wholesome-hearted, sound,
natural, English girl under her supposed load
of learning, as happy as the deprivations of her
orphan lot and the burden of her responsibilities
would let her, probably more self-reliant
and womanly, instead of girlish, than
she would have been without the deprivations
and the burden.

But contradictions will never cease. The
fresh, honest, comely face was showing itself
greatly excited in the shifting light. If anybody
could have read Miss Gray's thoughts
they would have seemed sufficiently mysterious
for an innocent genuine individual in her circumstances.
She was thinking, 'So I am
actually here. I have succeeded in my enterprise
 however much I may repent it. And
that was Jane, while the other was Susie !

Strange, to meet them in flesh and blood, and
they to regard me from a totally different standpoint
without having the slightest suspicion
why I should be deeply interested in them !
Upon the whole, from the little I have seen of
the sisters, I believe I shall prefer Jane ; though
Susie is wonderfully pretty, and I fancy he hasa
favour for her  I fear, I fear, on his weak
side, poor fellow.' And Miss Gray shook her
head wistfully, deprecatingly, with a kind of
precocious womanly wisdom.

Miss Gray's train of thought was remarkable
 out of a novel. It was decidedly unwarrantable
 not to say objectionable  in a
young woman who had not all the airs of a
syren adventuress stealing into a guileless
household and working incalculable havoc
there.

She might have committed the further indiscretion
of being late for dinner on her first
evening, but she was interrupted in time.
There was a tap at the door. When Miss

Gray opened it she found Mrs. Prior on the
threshold. There was no mistaking the mistress
of Eedcot, though she had not waited
for an introduction to the new inmate of her
family, and she had just received from a
servant a salver with wine and cake. She had
overcome the reserve which was growing on
her in order to supply what she guessed had
been an overlook on Jane's part, though there
was still a reflection of the reserve in Mrs.
Prior's heightened colour, and the slight embarrassment
in her air. But her old-fashioned
dignity and politeness, mingling with the
hospitality that caused her to serve the stranger
herself, prevented the hostess from being really
flurried.

'I beg your pardon. Miss Gray, but my
daughter ought to have seen that jow had
some refreshment as soon as you arrived, before
you attempted to get ready for dinner.
Don't trouble to make much change in your
dress ; we are old-fashioned country people,

and you must be tired after your long journey.'


Miss Gray had remained dumb in positive
consternation. Something about Mrs. Prior
and her entrance overwhelmed the girl. Her
carnation colour deepened to crimson, and
flooded her face and neck. She started forward
with a little distressed cry. ' Oh ! don't,
Mrs. Prior, you are a great deal too good,' she
exclaimed. She took the salver from Mrs.
Prior's hands, set it down with trembling
fingers, and stood like a delinquent with cast-down
eyes, which, if they had been raised,
would have been found suddenly brimming
over with tears, before the simple, kindly,
elderly lady.

Mrs. Prior in her turn was disturbed by the
sensation she had created. In the later years
of her life she had become accustomed to finding
herself frequently called to account for not
being on a level with a younger generation in
knowledge of the world and its wickedness, and

of undreamt-of standards of propriety. She
began to dread that she had committed a grave
solecism in the trifling piece of attention she
laid paid Miss Gray, else she  Mrs. Prior 
could not have so upset the new-comer, the
fully-armed, all-accomplished young lady whom
Jane had selected, who was to be Jane's friend.
The offender could only take comfort in the
consideration that the offence was a small
matter after all. Then she fell back on the
blamelessness of her motive, and recovered her
equanimity as she withdrew.

But if Mrs. Prior recovered her equanimity
Miss Gray lost hers. She made a gesture the
moment she was left by herself, as if she would
have covered her face with her hands, and
cried half aloud  ' Oh ! I am afraid I have
been very wrong. How shall I carry out my
purpose  if I ought to carry it out and not
relinquish it at the outset ? To have Mrs.
Prior  how sweet and dear she looks ! I

don't wonder that he is very fond of her  wait
on me in this character, is too dreadfuL'

But youth is mercurial. Soon Miss Gray
not only turned to her toilet, she bestowed on
it an amount of anxious consideration which
some people would have thought totally unworthy
of a learned lady. In place of shipping
out of one dress and into another with the
celerity acquired by long practice, and scarcely
a glance into the mirror, which was Jane's way.
Miss Gray thought and hesitated. She opened
her solitary trunk, and slowly took from it
some trifles of gloves, shoes, and lace, then
reluctantly shut it again, after she had indulged
in one peep to see that no injury had been
inflicted, in the packing, on the single gown it
contained  a delicate expensive gown of palest,
softest plush.

I dare say Jane will be severely plain,'
the stranger reflected, ' and her mother implied
something very simple  such as might be
supposed to suit a governess's purse  for me.

This old black silk, which I have worn under
my ulster, may do very well. It will be more
in keeping. But, oh ! I am so sick of black
silks,' drawing down the corners of her mouth
as she made the disparaging confession to
herself, ' though I remember,' she thought
again, with a shrug of the shoulders and a
twinkle of the eye, ' I regarded this one, and
that not so very long ago, such a desirable
purchase  a most respectable best gown. But,
if I could, I should so have liked to make a
good impression on them the first night, as he
would wish, if he knew.' The thinker drew a
long sighing breath. ' I might have taken the
bull  that is, the formidable old gentleman 
by the horns and by storm. That is a horribly
vain idea, above all when my blowsy charms
are by no means out of the common. Still, I
wish I could have worn my pretty gown tonight.


The would-be wearer put on a dressing
jacket, and began to brush her hair pensively.

I believe she would have liked it. She looks
so nice and sympathetic, I wish I could kiss
her ; but if she were to propose some day to
kiss me I'm sure I should die of shame and
contrition, though I never meant to harm her
or hers.

I have had so few pretty gowns,' the
dreamer returned to her ground of complaint,
and dwelt on it with a persistency that showed
she was a woman and a girl still. ' This is the
very prettiest I have ever had, and, though I
may have many more, they will never be like
the first. It will lie and fade and soil, perhaps
get old-fashioned as well as shabby befji'e I
have a chance of putting it on. Well, as if that
signified. What a goose I am ! ' She suddenly
pulled herself up, and made a gallant stand
against her folly.

The old, big dinner-bell  there had never
been a gong at Eedcot  pealed forth with a
crack in its voice.

Miss Gray salted out in her characteristic

black silk gown, in which, however, she looked
bonnie enough, like a blushing June rose set
among its dark leaves, and followed the servant
sent to show her the way to the drawing-room.
Miss Gray was introduced to the master of the
house, who treated her as a gentleman treats a
lady, but for anything further took very little
notice of her, so that the trepidation with which
she had been fencing, which she had been pam
fully keeping under strict control, might have
been spared.

The dinner was quiet. Mr. Prior was taciturn,
Jane was in one of her brown studies.
Mrs. Prior had to make conversation on the
weather, whether Miss Gray was fond of the
country, whether she liked walking, &c., &c.
The hostess had got so much out of the way of
that particular service to society, in which she
had never been a brilliant woman, in spite of
her liveliness in private, that she did not play
her part with great effect, and desisted from the
effort as soon as she civilly could. She was

driven to regret that there was no diversion
caused by the presence of the children at
dessert.

When the ladies went to the drawing-roora,
Jane engaged Miss Gray over the programme
of the children's lessons. Mr. Prior had his
Quarterly,' Mrs. Prior her book. There was a
little music, which was proposed as something
more social and genial by Mrs. Prior. She
contributed to it in the first place  playing an
old-fashioned piece  not that she cared to play,
or was very fond of music, but Jane was no
musician, and Jane's mother had a fine sense
that Miss Gray should not be allowed to feel as
if her accomplishments were being trotted out.
When Mrs. Prior left the piano. Miss Gray
complied with the invitation to play and sing.
She did both in a well-taught, decidedly pleasing
manner, a little spoilt by nervousness. The
performance was quite satisfactory, without
being anything marvellous.

The servants came in to prayers, and the
whole household retired early.

It was a somewhat bald realisation of a
scene which had been anticipated often by one
person present, and never without a thrill of
emotion. But the veritable experience was not
without its subtle interest for Mss Gray. She
had directed many an intelligent glance to the
objects around her  the icy mirrors, the side-tables
with their gilt legs, the floral rug. She
had watched covertly but breathlessly, as if
with a kind of fascination, the unconscious,
sombre figure of the master of the house,
seated at his own little table, with his shaded
lamp, restlessly fluttering the leaves of his
magazine, and occasionally leaning back, and
tapping with his paper-knife on the arm of his
chair, not in time to the music, rather as if it
were in an irritable accompaniment to his
troubled thoughts. But, as so frequently
happens, the interest felt by the looker-on was
not exactly that which had been expected.

VOL. I. I

When Miss Gray was safe in her room again,
she walked to her window and looked out on
a bright moonlight night, which had succeeded
the dark November day. 'How peaceful and
beautiful it is,' the gazer considered. ' It is
charming ; oh ! dear, one cour be so happy
here, if everything else were as right as the dear
old house.'

Then straightway Miss Gray resumed her
former erratic line of meditation, with a renewal
of the tendency to sum up the knowledge she
had gained. ' And this is Eedcot ! I am really
here,' she told herself in short, fragmentary ejaculations
of wonder which could hardly believe
itself, and was not unmixed with apprehension
and repentance. ' I declare,' as she stared out,
that must be the mulberry tree under which
the children kept house and played. I think I
can catch a glimpse of the disused barn, where
so many bats take refuge, while the owls affect
the old mill. So that was the squire. He does
look a Httle savage, but I should not have

thought him without natural affection  rather
the reverse.'

She had become more composed, and took
to pondering. ' Mr. Prior must have a lump
of brain behind that big forehead  perhaps
rather a conglomerate, heterogeneous lump.
He ought to have a heart, however warped
and soured, poor squire! which the twitching
mouth obeys inadvertently. One sees where
Jack has got the ugliness of which he is so
humbly conscious, foolish boy ! But he cannot
be a bit like his father in other respects. Jack
must be like his mother, dear soul ! How
prettily she played ' The light of other days.'
Would she hate me if she knew it was I who
sent him so far away from her when I did not
know what else to do ?

I suppose that was one of Mrs. Prior's
favourite stories she was reading. I longed to
ask the name, but I durst not. The dog at her
feet must have been " Tommy." I ventured to
pat him, and was rewarded by a most diabolical

I 2

snarl, which seriously disturbed his mistress's
composure. Well, Tommy has not the second
sight, that's clear, else he might have detected a
faint flavour of Jack, who was always good to
him ; I'll vouch for that.

I've seen every one of them. I've only the
children to be introduced to tomorrow. Will the
grown-up people ever forgive me, and take kindly
to me after this ? Even Jane I suspect has some
class pride, though he had none, or else love slew
and buried it clean out of sight the first day we
met. But it is not as if I had entered another
family in the neighbourhood. The children are
poor Alice's daughter and sons. Jack's own
niece and nephews.

Still, to come among them in a false character,
I am afraid nothing can excuse that,
though I have done it to judge for myself, and
ccfhvince myself that there are more persons
than one to blame. I did not need to come
here to be convinced of that, but I wished to
be prudent  to satisfy the few people who

really care whether I throw away my happiness
and good fortune or not. I have to justify
myself to dear old Mary, who was at my first
college with me, and then we went to Germany,
and came home together, and passed our examination
on the very same day. I should not
like, if I could help it, even to vex her father
kind, fussy Mr. Burton  who took me in
charge before there was anything more than a
hardy girl, who had been knocked about since
she was a child, to take charge of. Anyhow,
the thing is done and cannot be undone, without
worse coming of it.' And with this half fatalistic
and wholly soothing reflection. Miss Gray
prepared to read her chapter, say her prayers,
and go to sleep, with a conscience that was not
so heavily laden as to keep her awake.

CHAPTER Iii.

A TUG OF WAR AND A FLAG OF TRUCE.

WiiEN" Miss Gray got up next morning, she
found her way to the schoolroom, and met not
only her future pupils, but Miss Prior, at her
former post, awaiting her successor.

Jane Prior always looked particularly well
the first thing in the morning. Her style of
dress, with its straight lines, comparative scantiness
of detail, and absence of superfluity, while
it was in danger of looking stiff and hard in a
light evening gown, harmonised much better
with the thick, dark woollen stuff or the plain
uncompromising calico which was in use for
morning wear in winter or in summer. All
that was clear and open in her face seemed

to belong by right to the dawn of day. The
searching light revealed nothing that was meant
to be hidden away and cunningly concealed.
All was frank and above-board, from the
freckles on the broad forehead to the lock
which, obeying a vagrant inclination known
in local phrase as ' a cow-fleck,' would never
comb smoothly back with the rest of Jane
Prior's hair, but always kept springing forward
and swinging across a corner of her forehead,
disturbing the orderly arrangement of her head.
As yet, there was not a faded hue or a haggard
line in the face. Such would be long in stealing
away the vigorous prime of an earnest,
calm nature, strong in itself, amply supplied
with interests which were largely impersonal,
and with honourable work which was its own
reward.

Miss Gray was clad fittingly in grey  one
of the colours made for her. Competent critics
on old masterpieces of art have often expressed
the effect graphically. Grey toned down and

brought out her carnations in the most masterly
manner. It is not every woman whom
grey becomes, as it is not every woman who,
even when young, looks well before breakfast.
It is not a bad sign when she stands the last
test. Miss Gray surmounted it as triumphantly
as Jane Prior did. Jane was a fine-looking
girl ; Miss Gray was more, she verged
on a beautiful young woman. It was not
merely her handsome features and rosy bloom
which led to this conclusion ; her face was
sweet wide heart and bright with mind.

The three small Woods sat solemnly in a
row at one of the desks in the old-fashioned,
slightly-battered schoolroom. The children
were like culprits about to be presented to
their executioner. Yet they were neither
badly endowed nor badly disposed. True,
little Ace, all over pink in her confusion,
was apt to be desperately engrossed with dolls.
But lint-topped Tom was a boy of quite average
understanding, as exhibited in his habits. He

had only to be taken and examined on the
contents of the innumerable boxes  ranging
from pill to band-boxes  which were the desire
of his heart at the present stage of his existence.
Any liberal-minded examiner would be satisfied
with the result. In these boxes Tom bestowed
shoals of extraordinary and improving curiosities
in the shape of new farthings, old postage
stamps, little stones, bits of wood of which the
carving was very rude indeed, leaves of plants,
dead or dying beetles and worms.

And anybody might have put dumpling-faced
Sam through his ' facings ' after he had
trotted out surreptitiously and been brought
back summarily from the offices, where he had
been contemplating the cattle feeding or the
horses airing, or even when he had been fired
with noble emulation by the sight of the pantry -
boy weeding the garden beds or cleaning the
knives. It would have been impossible to
detect in the small specimen of humanity any
deficiency in that faculty of observation which

we are advised, on the authority of the greatest
philosophers, to cultivate as a gift of primary
importance.

Miss Gray shook hands with the children,
and longed to say she would not eat them up,
but refrained, out of consideration for what
their Aunt Jane's feelings might be on the
subject.

The children's copy-books, &c., were laid
out for inspection, while the embryo scholars
manifestly shook in their shoes before the
verdict to be pronounced on their halting
performance.

Everything does you all great credit,'
murmured Miss Gray, with a comprehensive
wave of her hand and a comical glance at
Jane Prior, which the giver of the glance
hoped the rigid disciplinarian appreciated.

But some criticism was necessary, and the
newcomer pounced upon Alice's signature.

Don't you think it might be a little more
distinct, Ally. They call you Ally, don't

they ? ' The speaker added quickly  ' Shall
I write my name, and you can try to make it
out?'

Bennet Gray,' Jane read over the child's
shoulder, with a little tone of surprise. 'I
thought you were called Beatrice. You signed
yourself "B. Gray," and I suppose I leapt
to the conclusion that the B. stood for
Beatrice.'

No, for Bennet,' said the bearer of the
name ; ' I was christened Bennet after my
mother and grandmother.'

Is it a Christian name for women as well
as a surname, in any part of England ? '

Yes, I believe so. I fancy it is a contraction
for Benedict, as Bennet is used for Benedict
abroad. But the name is rather uncommon
and conspicuous, serving to mark me out unduly.
With the two exceptions I have mentioned, I
have really never known another woman called
Bennet. I dare say that is why I am inclined to
feel bashful and stop short at B,' she said, laughing

and colouring. ' That is a generalisation which,
as you interpreted it, might stand for Beatrice,
or Blanche, or Barbara, or Betty.'

'- We have a puppy  at least Tartar has,
and its name is Benny,' Sam's treble voice broke
in, without much relevance, and with an indecorous
laugh. He drew down an indignant
clause from Jane's steel-blue eyes. Then the
children hustled themselves down from their
bench and disappeared in a twinkling.

Is this your old schoolroom ? ' inquired
Miss Gray, wistfully, as she looked round.
There were discoloured maps on the walls, and
chipped globes in one corner. The book-cases
were full of shabby books, which had seen
much wear and tear. There was the cottage
piano with the yellowing keys, on which endless
scales had been strummed, and poor Miss
Eossiter had displayed her bravura execution
to marvelling little musical aspirants. And
there was the table in the middle of the
room, round which short legs had dangled

from uneasy cane chairs, while chubby hands
had been busy obliterating sums from maltreated
slates, or scattering ink freely around
as the stiff fingers, reluctantly obeying perplexed
brains, travelled painfully across the
pages of exercise books.

Would you mind telling me about it and
letting me see where you sat and what you
did ? ' petitioned the new governess with something
of a beseeching tone coming into her
voice.

Oh, if you like,' answered Jane, carelessly,
but with a shade of surprise and discomfiture.
The manner of the questioner was enough to
suggest that she was but a tyro in her profession
after all. If so, Jane had been singularly
misled. ' Yes, this was my old schoolroom,
but I did not get much good here,
though there was nobody to blame. There
was nothing done here that could serve as a
precedent or example.'

Was it only your schoolroom ? ' persisted

Miss Gray, unaware of the impression she was
producing.

'No, of course not,' answered Jane
promptly. ' Susie (Mrs. Crabtree) and Alice
(the children's mother), and even Jack (my
brother), before he went to a boys' school,
were all taught here. Later Jack and I read
here for a whole year with Mr. Conyngham.'
Jane brightened at the recollection. 'That
was better  I learned something then. I
believe my mind began to open. Mr. Conyng-
ham was quite an able man, I used to enjoy
his explanations. I was so proud of his saying
that it was a pleasure to make them to one who
could follow him.' Jane held up her head, and
looked her best at the recollection. ' I was
fond of Greek from the first. It was all very
nice, though, to be sure, there was the difficulty
with Jack (my brother). He had some taste
for mathematics, but he hated classics, which
my father wished him to master. He used to
sit there,' pointing to a corner, ' over his construing,

and when he was supposed to have
been occupied with it for an hour, he would
suddenly look up and ask Mr. Conyngham if
he had read some story my mother had got
from Muche's, or if he did not thmk the
weather fine for fishing ? '

Oh r Miss Gray responded with a long-drawn
breath to the account of the delinquencies
of the young squire of Eedcot, while her
lips parted with a wavering smile, and her hazel
eyes dwelt for a considerable space, as if they
liked to rest on the particular corner. To be
sure it was the corner on which the light came
from the western window chequered by the
bare boughs of a hedge maple that grew outside.
It suggested vividly how the small leaves
that would flutter in every breath of wind must
make a rhythmic dance of light and shade on
the faded carpet in summer. The same window
commanded a side view, through the shrubbery,
of the grey barn beloved of the bats, and the
disused ivy-grown threshing-mill haunted by

the owls. It might have been remarked afterwards
that Miss Gray always close that corner,
though it was the farthest from the fire, for her
teacher's presidential chair.

After breakfast, Jane was once more
aggrieved by the children's arriving for
the duties of the day, cumbered with their
own affairs. Tom had one of his boxes
lined with turkey's feathers which he* had
picked up, Sam was panting to recount his
encounter with the turkey which had shed
the feathers, and Alice had taken it upon
her to bring in the last of her dolls. That
came of being too easy and familiar with the
children.

Let them unload their burdened little bodies
and minds,' said Miss Gray. ' It need not be
altogether without profit, you know '  she added
waggishly, not without a quick glance at Jane
to see if the most distant approach to raillery
might be allowable  'admit information at
every pore. Come, Tom and Sam, and tell me

all about the turkey and its wings, and whether
calves and lambs have wings too.'

Tom and Sam shouted with derisive laughter
over the idea, but were incited to listen
when Miss Gray delivered the least pedantic of
lectures which took only one minute in the delivery
upon Alice's doll's eyes and ears and
fingers and toes.

But we'll not use such a liberty with your
baby again, dear,' the lecturer promised the
child. ' How would grown-up people like to
have themselves or their babies treated as subjects
for dissection ? '

She is not a baby,' objected Alice indignantly
; ' she is Anna Maria Constance  a lady
going to a ball. Don't you see her fan and her
bouquet ? I am to be dressed like that when I
go out to India to papa.'

I beg Anna Maria Constance's pardon,' said
Miss Gray. ' But whether your doll is a baby
or a lady she is for you to take care of, play
with, and dress. She is not for another person

VOL. I. K

to dissect. Has she a great stock of clothes,
Ally ? I think I may be able to help you to
make her something new. Ladies who go to
balls, still more than babies in bibs and tuckers,
are always wanting something new. I have a
hat in my eye to be trimmed with one of Tom's
turkey's feathers, if he will be generous and
present one to Anna Maria Constance, which
will just suit her.'

When lessons did come on, Jane had her
reward at last. She had lingered, puzzled and
on the verge of being vexed, for, in spite of her
big brains, she was a woman slow to receive a
new idea or to alter a foregone conclusion. But
she admitted candidly, with honest satisfaction,
that nothing could be better or more thorough
than Miss Gray's mode of teaching. She had not
been to the College of Preceptresses and passed
her examinations in vain, and she was perfectly
resolute in exacting all the children could give
her. It was soon plain that, Awhile she would
not hear of long hours of lessons for such young

children, there would be as little as possible of
shirking or trifling, where business was concerned,
in herreion.

Jane Prior submitted to the new order of
things, but not without a recoil. She was not
arrogant or domineering by nature, and she had
wisely determined to support Miss Gray's authority.
At the same time Jane was tempted
to suspect that Miss Gray might be very clever
that went without saying ; and might know
her work  that was even more undeniable ; yet
she was fond of theories, and liked short tasks
and changes for herself as well as for the children.
She rambled all over the place, and she
found out the walks, even the winding path
hidden among the tall shrubs to the rose garden
bare enough at this season  as if by intuition.
It almost seemed as if she had known
Redcot in a previous state of existence, and was
delighted to get back to it and hail its familiar
beauties.

Jane did not accuse her Admirable Rich ton

K 2

ot unfaithfulness to her post, only it was hard
to find anybody, teachers included, faultless.
Miss Prior was young, and had a craving after
perfection  she felt a shade of disappointment.
In place of approaching nearer to Miss Gray,
the young lady drew slightly away from the
schoolmistress, and engrossed herself with her
own pursuits.

Then a special incident occurred in the
family life. John Prior was summoned to be on
the Grand Jury at the Winter Assize in the
county town, and, whatever his pressing interests
at home, he must fulfil his obligations to his
fellow-subjects. The same thing had not happened
for a period of years. The last time it
had come about there had been an understanding
that when next Mr. Prior was on the jury,
Mrs. Prior, who even then visited rarely, should
accompany her husband, and be the guest of
some old friends while the Assize lasted. Much
had altered since that arrangement was entered
into ; but John Prior had not forgotten it, and

his wife was touched and pleased by his remembrance.
Altogether the two appeared to soften
to each other, and come closer together on this
small point. In the very details of their setting
out  in her wish to drive with him on a doubtful
day in the ramshackle phaeton instead of
having a close carriage sent out from Newton
for her private accommodation, in his anxiety
about her wraps and parcels  Miss Gray, a
keenly-interested onlooker, felt she got a passing
glimpse through the man's grufFness and the
woman's reserve of what the relations between
them had been in happier years.

Jane Prior and Bennet Gray were left behind
at Eedcot to keep house, take care of the
children, and follow their own devices.

Jane immediately improved the occasion by
resolving to get through a large amount of
stiff ' reading which was on her mind. She
had received a loan some time ago of several
valuable and ' heavy ' books, which ought to be
returned on the first opportunity. She would

take advantage of her father and mother's ab -
sence, at a season when visitors were out of
count in the country, to shut herself up and
have a good time of hard study, such as she had
not enjoyed for many months, and be able to
send back the volumes in question without
further delay.

Whether Jane had grown a little rusty in
her enforced neglect of anything like tough
reading ; whether the old ethics were a more
indigestible morsel than she had reckoned, she
found at the end of the first day that if she were
to do as she had planned she must husband
every moment of her time. Steer mind, she
felt free to do it, now that Miss Gray had command
of the children.

Jane Prior forthwith sent a polite message
to Miss Gray, and begged that she would excuse
her (Jane) from coming down to dinner. She
desired Miss Gray to go on without her, and
would she kindly send her up a bit of fish and
a glass of toast and water  one of Jane's hobbies

was that study was best pursued on the lightest
of diets  for she had to be very busy all the
evening ? As she was also to be very busy all
the next morning, would Miss Gray not mind
eating her breakfast, too, by herself? Jane was
going to rise early and have her bread and milk
when she got up. The two would meet at
lunch.

It was not Bennet Gray's place to mind or
to refuse to accept a civil excuse. However,
when she encountered Jane in the course of the
afternoon hurrying out of her room in her garden
hat and over-shoes, with a generally distrait air,
just for five minutes of fresh air, as she rushed
up and down the avenue, to keep herself from
getting inconveniently sleepy later in the day,
the young teacher stopped the young student
with an eager appeal, ' I shall not detain you
above one moment. Miss Prior ; but is it worth
while having all the ceremony and trouble
of a late dinner for me?  unless, indeed.

dinner is a solemn institution wliicli cannot beset
aside.'

'But you must be fed, Miss Gray interposed
Jane bluntly, and rather sharply, for she
was provoked at being interrupted  every second
was precious. ' I am not going to starve you
because I do not choose to eat myself

But it is not starving,' urged Bennet. ' I
have been accustomed to dine early. I really
eat my dinner at lunch time. Governesses are
frequently expected to do that whether they like
it or not ; but I like it. Even if I did not, a
bit of fish would suit me too, splendidly. I
have often dined on less when I snatched a
scrambling meal at a restaurant. All the time
I was at Boughton,' naming her college, ' I
breakfasted on bread and milk  and it did taste
so good at half-past q'

Jane was beguiled into listening with her
interest attracted in a new direction  perhaps a
more refreshing process on the whole than the
five minutes' rush to the avenue.

I suppose that was where you were reading
up for your examinations ? ' she said, inquiringly.


Yes,' said Miss Gray, ' you know I had to
crib the time for reading from every odd minute,
and so had a friend of mine, since we were both
teaching junior classes all the time. We had to
reduce our nights to three or four hours. Mary
Burton could stand it and keep awake, but I
used to get so sleepy over my lexicon, and even
during the lectures, I was ashamed of myself.
Still it was jolly,' with a sigh of remembrance
over past pleasures.

What did you do to keep the sleep off? '
inquired Jane, from a selfish motive. ' Come
into my room for five minutes  I believe it is
going to rain  and tell me all about it ; what
books you had to post yourself up in for your
examinations, and how you came out of
them.'

Bennet went into Jane's room, simple and
bare as that of an ascetic, for its mistress was

not one of the girl graduates who contrive to
combine aesthetic fancies and sybarite indulgence
with a passion for knowledge. She was in earnest
in all she did. She had given her heart to
the passion, and anything which interfered with
it at this period of her life simply ' bothered ' her,
as she put it.

Bennet walked up to the bookcase and
examined its contents with the intelligent relish
of one who was something of a student on her
own account, though the books were not those
she had sought specially to master. On comparing
notes, the two discovered that Jane's
bent was more to philosophy, ancient and
modern, and to natural science, while Miss
Gray's was to history and literature in all ages.
Jane was not altogether sorry, and Bennet
positively rejoiced, though not for herself, that
each evidently excelled the other in her own
department.

In the excitement of the moment Jane
confided to her companion that she (Jane) had

an ambition to go up to Oxford and pass an
examination there, and Miss Gray reciprocated
the confidence by an admission that she would
like that very much for herself if the thing
could be conveniently managed, of which Jane
in her generosity had no doubt.

Thereupon the candidates for honours  such
honours as they could win  settled the different
subjects they would take, advised each other
on the books they ought to consult, and became
so friendly that at last the women in them
fairly unbent. Inductive and deductive systems,
postulates, cellular chords were gradually
dropped, together with battles on Thracian and
Etruscan plains, Courts of Areopagus, Conscript
Fathers, odes, and orations. The cites of these
formidable topics descended to gossiping and
laughing about their several experiences,
professors, and fellow-students. The speakers
told with gusto of lucky hits and ludicrous
mistakes, giving the slight but graphic local
and personal touches that had reference to a

college hall or a savant's face, in which women
excel.

These young women had not sport to
diverge to, as two young men would have had
in similar circumstances, though Miss Gray did
try to edge in a word for lawn tennis, and,
more extraordinary still, for dancing. Jane
did not follow up these suggestions, but the
couple had a taste in common for nature and
for long walks, which did almost as well as
boating, cricketing, or hunting, for a diversion
from more serious subjects.

To begin with, and in the main, however,
it was learning on which these girls, each with
a good head of her own, fraternised. The
medium has become possible in recent years,
and it seems to serve as well on a pinch as ball
dresses, choral practising, or district visiting.

The sympathy aroused was a pleasure to
Bennet Gray for special reasons, but she had
not been unaccustomed to such sympathy.
With Jane Prior it was different. She had

been far more alone in tastes which were not
shared by the women of her particular circle.
She had not known such communion since she
had left her school, or since the days when she
had read along with Jack, and the teaching of
the Cambridge coach had been a positive
enchantment, under the influence of which
her mind had brightened indescribably. She
was ready to swear friendship with Miss Gray,
to trust her implicitly, even though they should
differ a little on the education of the children
or on any other question that might crop up.
She came near to forming a league with her on
the spot, which was a long way for a woman
of Jane Prior's temperament to go on so short
an acquaintance.

For the rest of the time of Mr. and Mrs.
Prior's absence, the ardent young souls agreed
to set the forms of society at defiance, and
enjoy themselves in their own way. They had
no family breakfast, and no ceremonious dinner.
They ate and drank such primitive fare as

bread and milk in their own rooms at unheard-of
hours in the morning. The girls met and
dined at luncheon, and consented to relax and
refresh themselves  say with the wisdom of
Socrates, or the quips of the ' Birds ' of Aristophanes
 over afternoon tea. These sources
of relaxation on such lips did fit in queerly
with the soulless splendour of the glassy
mirrors, the gilt-legged tables, and the floral
hearth-rug of the last Georgian and William
era. The day was wound up with something
equivalent to sporting oaks and solitary 'sapping
' after slices of fish or wings of partridge,
or something equally substantial.

The two delinquents kept their own counsel
outside the house, but inside the cook and the
housemaid were to be met and vanquished.
These functionaries, with a greatness of soul
which showed itself in utter indifference to
the trouble they where spared, felt outraged by
the unheard - of proceedings of ' them unaccountable
young ladies.' They were not

exacting or hard or flighty or worse, and still
they were no more like what young ladies
were wont to be, and ought to be, than if they
had been all that and a great deal more into
the bargain. Yet, in spite of converting herself
into a miserable book worm, sitting up of
nights and neglecting good victuals, Miss Prior
was well enough to look at, though not to be
mentioned in the same breath with beautiful
Miss Susie that was, who had never been done
with her gay doings. And as for that there
governess young lady Miss Prior chose to make
so much of, as was doubtless at the bottom of
the mischief, since it belonged to her poor
trade, she might have beeji a regular stunner,
and turned the heads of half the gentlemen
who came near her if she had liked, in place of
frightening them away with her books. It was
too bad, too bewildering and astounding to the
oracles of the kitchen.

CHAPTER VIE,

AN OLD woman's FAVOUR.

When the heads of the house resumed the
reins at Eedcot, the family fell back into its
normal condition, even to the renewal of the
alienation partially dissolved between John
Prior and his wife. The couple slipped again
sadly, but as it were inevitably into their
former attitude. But the friendship between
Jane Prior and Miss Gray continued. None
rejoiced with greater sincerity at the alliance
than did Mrs. Prior, though it shut her up still
more to her book, her needlework, and
Tommy  the old blue Skye terrier. She would
look up with shining eyes at the two girls
standing exchanging endless last words over

the fire or in the doorway. Miss Gray's heart
ached for the woman left out in the cold  an
experience which Mrs. Prior was too magnanimous
and self-forge tftd to resent for herself.
Her own daughter was too well accustomed toit,
too inobservant otherwise, too absorbed in
the grand mental going which lay before her 
for intellectual ambition, no less than the
pursuit of pleasure, has its unconscious devouring
selfishness  to notice her mother's isolation.
Bennet Gray sought by the deepest, most
well-laid strategy, to court the friendship of
the mistress of the house. The enterprise was
not easy, in spite of Mrs. Prior's gentleness 
she was shy and proud and humble all in one.
She could not help looking with distrustful eyes
on the beautiful, clever young woman  solid
enough to satisfy Jane, brilliant enough, even
in the comparative shadow of her governess's
position, to cause John Prior in his pre-occupation
and discontent to look, up and listen to her
remarks with a gleam of entertainment. Why

VOL. I. L

should such an one come to Mrs. Prior ? She
had nothing to give beyond the courteous
consideration she had never withheld in the old
days from Miss Eossiter, and the admiration
she had freely bestowed on this stranger. Miss
Gray had a great deal that was worth having
in life, probably about as much  seeing that
the public estimate of a governess's career is
undergoing a great change, and that she looked
a reasonable, happy-tempered girl  as she cared
for. Why need Miss Gray seek an increase of
her well-being from Mrs. Prior, who was not
herself so much at ease or so richly endowed,
though she refused to complain, that she was
qualified to shower benefits on all around her .
Mrs. Prior knew in the depth of her heart
that for the present, at least, she had lost
nearly all that she most prized which had
once belonged to her, and, in the belonging,
made her passing rich. Husband, daughters,
even her son  her only son Jack  who had not
grown away from her, was gone for the time

to the ends of the earth, across leagues of land
and sea, into unknown regions, amidst 
dangers, and the wife and mother
was angrily or calmly relegated to her books,
her needlework, and Tommy ! What had
Mrs. Prior to give to Miss Gray? What had
the elder woman to do comforting and petting
the younger ?

But one afternoon, after luncheon was over.
Miss Gray, instead of retiring to the schoolroom
or her own room and her learned associations
like Jane, instead of setting out alone or
with her friend on one of the long walks to
which they were given, came creeping into the
drawing-room with a pitiful story of bad toothache,
amply corroborated by heavy eyes and a
flushed and swollen face. She begged a loan
of one of M's. Prior's perennial stock of novels,
to keep her from dwelling on the pain she was
suffering.

The woman addressed felt at once the touch
of nature which makes the whole world kin,

L 2

and responded readily to the human cry. ' Oh !
poor thing ; I beg your pardon, Miss Gray, but
I am so sorry. I need not speak of a dentist, for
there is none nearer than Newton, to which you
cannot go at a moment's notice ; and at the
best, the tender mercies of a dentist are cruel.
The only thing to do is to keep yourself warm,
and perhaps the pain will go of itself before
morning. I am afraid your room is draughty,
though I sent up a screen. Will you spend the
afternoon with me? That is a cosy corner
opposite ; you can lean back in the low chair,
and you may drop off into a nice sleep. I shall
not speak a word to disturb you.'

'You are too good,' protested the patient,
willingly consenting to be installed into the
comfortable chair on the other side of the
hearth. ' But I am not so ill as that comes to.
If you will let me come across to your bookcase
for anything you can spare, I am quite
able to read, and forget the ache of the tooth
in that way.'

You are perfectly welcome,' said Mrs. Prior,
simply but more formally ; ' only I am afraid
there is nothing you will care for.'

Not care I  I ! ' exclaimed Bennet in such
an energetic disclaimer that she forgot her ailment,
and started up bolt upright from her
half reclining posture, ' when I read the names
of William Black's last novel, and Mrs. Oliphant's
second last, as Miss Prior was taking
the books from the book-box, and I have been
dying to get a look at them ever since.'

'Dear me. Miss Gray, do you care for
novels ? ' cried Mrs. Prior, opening her eyes.

Care ! ' reiterated Bennet, ' I should think
so. Care for "Adam Bede," and "Mary Barton,"
and " Westward-Ho," and " Nicholas Nickleby,"
and " The Virginians," and " Pride and Prejudice,"
and ' Waverley." I have sat up till two
in the morning, and what is more, I have risen
at six to read some of them. Why, Mrs. Prior,
if you will forgive me for asking, what do you
take me for ? '

I don't know,' answered the elder woman
with a little blush and laugh, more gratified than
disconcerted. ' None of ray children except
Jack, who ought to have been better employed
everybody said  cared much for novels. Poor
Alice married out of the schoolroom, I may
say ; Susie went a great deal out into company ;
and Jane is far beyond novels. I thought you
were like Jane.'

I am supposed to go in for history,' said
]\iiss Gray, in an easy colloquial strain, which
was enough to show that one pupil from the
college of preceptresses wore her learning lightly,
let us say nothing about gracefully. ' Did you
never hear what was said by Lord Holland 
was it Lord Holland or Sir Robert Walpole ? 
anyhow, it was a great statesman, when somebody
proposed to read history to him on his
death-bed ? His answer was to the effect that
he was sick of lies, let them read poetry to him.
He might as well have said novels  good novels.'

Well, I was brought up on Walter Scott

and Jane Austen, and I don't think there is miicli
falsehood in them,' corroborated Mrs. Prior,
with a deep sigh of satisfaction ; ' and I have
got many a glimpse of real life that I should
otherwise have missed  even out of authors
little known and soon forgotten. When the
children were young and my health was delicate
I visited little  hardly more than I do now.
Without novels I should have had small chance
of change of scene and company. I was not
strong enough, even if I had got the brains, to
cope with heavier books ; and, though travels
might have given me change of scene, and biography
introduced me to one other person and
his immediate set, I should still have wanted
the constant succession of fresh company. Mr.
Prior was fond of travels, but he liked novels too
in those days, and would read one out for half
an evening, when I sat at work.' Her voice
fell as she revived the peaceful picture, and
she quickly obliterated it by another reminiscence.
* I have read not only " Evening," and

"Cecilia," but the whole five volumes of " Camilla,"
' she announced vith innocent pride. 'It
was a favourite book of my mother's, and she
used to quote it to me. I have read the original
'' Sir Charles Grandison " and " Clarissa," with a
little skipping. I have even dipped into an odd
volume of the " Fool of Quality."

Oh ! Mrs. Prior, say no more ; your novel
lore is stupendous,' cried Bennet. And then,
in spite of her toothache, the two fell to comparing
notes on the couple's favourite stories
and what were the tit bits. The young woman
and the old crossed the Rubicon by the bridge
of romance, just as Jane and Bennet had passed
it with the help of philosophy and the classics.

The confabulation was renewed from day
to day, when fresh volumes where exchanged.
'What is she doing now ? ' Mrs. Prior would be
heard to inquire breathlessly with regard to a new
and refractory heroine, into whose entrancing
history j\iiss Gray, with her young eyes, had
got before her fellow-reader by several chapters.

Well, she has gone and misunderstood Sir
Harry for the fourth time. I have no patience
with her.'

But Sir Harry is trying, you'll admit
that,' remonstrated the most generous of
critics.

Oh yes, he is the most trying hero I ever
encountered. But that is no reason why she
should take to philandering with the curate.
I like that curate, though, immensely. The
fact is, I'm deeply in love with him myself. If
I had been Dorothy I'm sure I should have
thrown over Sir Harry and married the Ev.
Giles's flat feet and gawky laugh. I should
have done it just because of the afternoon when
he was caught sliding on the pond with all the
bad boys in the parish. I should have sought
to make up to him for the disgrace he got into
when he sent the tickets for groceries and coals
to the dreadful old pauper who shut the door
in his face and his vicar's, and called names to
them over the window.'

But you could not have been allowed to
throw over poor Sir Harry, and you would
certainly not have got the Eev. Giles objected
the reader of long experience. ' He is reserved
for reforming the Hon. Mary, who cares only
for what is beautiful and graceful, and is so
vindictive that she has kept up a silly schoolgirl
feud with a lady who has become her
sister-in-law.'

The chat grew more and more a matter of
course, until Mrs. Prior's tongue would wag
the faster of the two. It was a winning tongue,
that could express thick-coming fancies, quick
turns of thought, even merry jests  all dashed
with the latent enthusiasm which was so strong
a feature in the woman, though the tongue
shrank into silence before a little coolness,
harshness, rudeness.

'You have got into my mother's good graces,'
said Jane Prior to Miss Gray, without a particle
of jealousy. 'I heard her talking quite gaily today
as she has not talked since that unsatisfactory

brother of mine bade us good-bye before
he took a trip to Australia.'

John Prior coming in unexpectedly, and
hearing his wife's voice, so often quiet of late,
raised in tones of interest and animation, turned
and looked in wonder, which was in danger of
becoming offence in the mood that had become
chronic with him. And immediately the speaker
did him the further wrong of appearing caught
and put out.

At last Bennet ventured to ask to see Mrs.
Prior's needlework, and Mrs. Prior did not
mind showing it to her. The mistress of Eed-
cot explained that she had been engaged for a
number of years on quilts for each of her children.
She worked slowly, but she hoped to
finish before her eyes failed her. ' The work
is old-fashioned and of no account compared to
the fine artistic embroidery we see nowadays,'
she said, in her modest, deprecating way ; ' but,
apart from the value, I think the children may
like to have it one day,' she explained, and

there was a soft, far-away look in her eyes
which did not leave it doubtful as to what
change of circumstances the ' one day ' referred.
And after the children,' she added cheerfully,
I daresay Ally and Molly and the boys will
not object to having some remembrance of
their granny if only to prove that her stupid
old fingers were not always idle, though she
read novels by the hundred, and sermons by
the score.'

And sometimes found the novel the better
sermon of the two,' put in Bennet.

Sometimes,' admitted Mrs. Prior, ' but each
is good in its own way.'

The work was minute and elaborate. There
was neither bold drawing, nor striking effect,
nor learned conventionality. There was a
nearer, though still a distant, approach to exquisiteness
of detail, marred by a certain timidity
and hesitation belonging to deficient artistic
knowledge and training and to comparative
ignorance, both with regard to the result to be

arrived at, and the limit of what could be
attained with the materials employed.

The first impression the interminable work
gave was that adopted by Jane Prior  it was a
tremendous waste of time in a hurried and
crowded age The next that might occur to a
sympathetic soul was a sense of the infinite
tender pains which had been taken, until the
pains were reflected in the work, and lent a
grace to it, like the glory dimly shining from
ancient stained glass that only exists in tiniest
fragments, which have been fitted together with
the most loving, unwearied care.

But to see the quilts as Mrs. Prior saw them
and yet was aware that none save one person
had ever caught a glimpse of them would have
been to have borrowed her imagination. It
had enabled her to smell the scent of the
hyacinths she was embroidering, and to see in
the purple vetch and the pink and brown fumitory,
not the poor shadow of the homely weeds,
but the shady lanes and the sandy fields round

her father's house, where she had made her
first unapproachable child's posy.

Oh, I know there is nothing to be seen,'
cried Mrs. Prior, with a despairing sense that
there was nobody there, save herself, with eyes
to see anything in her labour of love, except
poor, pottering work. 'I know that even I
could make a great deal more of poppies or
foxgloves, for instance, than of those small
obscure things  too insignificant for art to
borrow. But I have a great liking for them,
I daresay because they have been seldom copied,
and so the most faulty copies bring back the
originals more vividly to my mind. I am aware
that an artist with her needle can cause a single
sunflower or a spray of clematis to be a thousand
times more imposing and picturesque, with
a thousand times less trouble, than all my heap
of trivialities.'

I like your flowers best, Mrs. Proofs,' said
Miss Gray emphatically.

It is very good of you to say so,' said the

complimented worker, shaking her head. ' But
1 am not so conceited as to think my work is
at all admirable in that sense, or what many-people
would care for. However, it has been
a pleasure as well as an occupation to me, and
seems somehow part of myself; no doubt because
it has engaged me so long, and it has
been my own idea  let it be ever so clumsy or
feeble  and so has expressed something in me.
And, do you know, my son likes it ? ' she broke
off, and looked up with her face lit up brightly.
'He has insisted on gathering all the flowers
that I have worked for his quilt, and he says
that he sees the dew on the May and the bees
on the broom still,' declared Mrs. Prior, with
sparkling eyes. ' I suppose he inherits the
foolish notion from me.'

Yes,' chimed in Bennet Gray, eagerly,
and when spring and summer have come
again, will you, Mrs. Prior, oh ! will you let mee
bring in from my walks any little flower that
does not grow quite at hand ? I should be so

proud and pleased if you would allow me to
help you in that way. I can sew  indeed I
can  and I can embroider decently, I am fond
of such work ; but my work is not like this 
nothing can ever be like this, which must be
all your own. I understand perfectly I should
never presume,' faltering in her excitement, ' to
have any share in this beyond bringing you the
more out-of-the-way flowers. Will you let
me?'

Thank you very much,' said Mrs. Prior
gratefully, but a good deal puzzled by her
companion's extraordinary zeal ;  I am exceedingly
obliged  yes, for the other quilts. I am
glad you like them. Jane thinks them a great
waste of time, and I was afraid you might do
the same. You see I work at them by turns,
and for the other quilts I shall be very much
pleased if you can bring me what is a little
difficult to find just when it is wanted. Let me
see, there is brooklime, or you may call it water
forget-me-not. I have none of that, and I

should be thankful for a few stalks of grass of
Parnassus and some sprigs of the milkwort that
used to grow on Kershaw Moor.'

Miss Gray promised willingly to get what
was required at the fitting season. But she was
half amused, half-piqued by the quiet reservation
which had been made. ' Yes ; for the
other quilts'  not for the one which was
intended for Jack Prior. She was not to be
permitted so much as to gather a flower for
that. It was half-comical, half-pathetic.

VOL. I. M

CHAPTER IX.

tommy's new friend.

The outworks of Mrs. Prior's heart were stormed
successfully by a younger woman, who had
thought it worth while to make the attack.
Then she proceeded to lay siege to what lay
nearer the citadel.

Mrs. Prior was  as everybody in the household,
from her husband to the last pert table-maid
was ready to protest  a slave to that
horrid old dog. Tommy.

Tommy had seen his day, when he was
neither a nuisance nor a burden, but an agreeable,
helpful companion. That day was past.
His old friends had mostly grown away from
him, while he was slipping back into that second

childhood which is not particularly graceful
either in man or beast, and demands forbearance
 sacrifice from the young to the old, as informer
days the same quality was required from
the old to the young. Tommy's attractions
were bygone and forgotten ; his friends of other
times had lost sight of the old Tommy and'
become weary of his successor's dulness and
infirmity. Even Jack Prior, who had never
spoken an unkind word to an animal in his life,
had ceased to ask for the dog's company.

But Mrs. Prior, who never wearied of anything
or anybody, and never forgot where she
had once loved, continued staunch and faithful
to Tommy, all the more so because others were
faithful. For the most part she did not see
in him the unwieldy, sluggish, snappish brute
he appeared to most people, but the gambol-some,
good-humoured wisp of grey and black
hair all quivering with his passion for exercise
and with devotion to his masters and mistresses
that he had once been. She felt hurt surprise

M 2

that SO many persons could change to such an
extent in their tastes and kings. For her eyes
were opened perforce to see that Tommy was
in the way. It was a bore to take him for a
walk and find that he had grown stupid, and
would no longer keep to heel, but strayedand
lost himself, and came back limping and panting.
It was a hardship to wash him when he
struggled, splashed the washer, and showed his
few teeth. His begging was no longer a pretty
accomplishment, but an intrusive piece of greedy
importunity. His warlike or joyous barking 
a performance to which he had been at one
time encouraged  which had, indeed, been regarded
as a brave or gleeful sound when everybody
was young and cheerful and not afflicted
with irritable nerves  had now become an
intolerable trial which the tortured ear could
not be expected to bear. His snoring, which
had been looked upon as so funny long ago,
was a still direr offence. His scratching, which
that earlier world had carelessly or magnanimously

overlooked, had waxed horribly suggestive.


Then Mrs. Prior's heart grew sore. Her
sense of justice was outraged. How could
Tommy know that there was such an alteration
in the sentiments of his judges, and why was he
to be punished for their fickleness and peevishness?
Her tenderness was wounded. The
very things which rendered Tommy no longer
acceptable to his other cronies appealed irresistibly
to her generosity and softness of heart.
The blue glassiness creeping over the bright
brown eyes, the stiffening of the once active
limbs, the thinning and straightening of the
erewhile profuse wavy hair, the white appearing
round the mouth and about the ears, like the
grey in an old man's beard and on his temples
to think that anybody could cease to care fora
dog, even a dog, could begin to dislike, to
covertly neglect, to be harsh to him in such
circumstances !

There miofht be another reason for the absurd

sensitiveness which Mrs. Prior testified
where Tommy's honour and happiness were
concerned, that caused her to watch jealously
over his rights, and actually made her resent a
slight and injury to him, though she would passover,
as not deserving a thought, the neglect of
her own claims. She seemed to recognise a
certain similarity between her position and that
of Tommy. She was not without a sorrowful
fellow-feelings where he was concerned. Bennet
Gray could catch words and sentences of long,
one-sided conversations which Tommy's mistress
held with him when they were alone. She
would remind Inn of a hundred pleasant old
haunts, games, family festivals the two had
shared. ' Do you remember the rabbits in
Eedcot quarry, and the rats in the barn,
Tommy? Have you forgotten that morning
when you brought papa's slippers to him all of
your own accord ? Surely you can recall the
day when you leapt out of the window after you
had been shut into the schoolroom to keep

you from following little Jack when he was
going off to school for the first time ? And do
not say you have lost sight of the evenings
when I showed the girls how to dress you up
for their charades ? Ah ! you are wagging
your tail  it is not such a brush now as it once
was  but you have not forgotten.' Did the
woman who thought so much of the past, which
other people had left behind, deceive herself
for a moment into fancying that the dog took
part in the retrospection ? Anyhow, she would
beg him to hive till their Jack  hers and his 
came home again, and then they would give
him a hearty welcome.

There was no serious difficulty in addressing
one's self to Tommy after the introduction had
been fairly given. He waited cautiously for
that formula ; when it had been complied with
he was apt to be overwhelmingly affable. He
greeted all his friends with loud acclaim every
time they crossed his path after the briefest
absence. Unfortunately the acclaim had come

to be regarded as uncalled-for, uproarious, and
aggressive, and was frequently met by indignant
rebuffs, ' Get away, brute.' ' Do be quiet, and
lie down, Tommy.' ' Oh, you tiresome little
wretch, can you not hold your tongue? Just
look what you've done to my velvet and fur.'
The last outcry was from Susie, whose universal
pleasantness was not equal to the derangement
of the grace of her entrance, and the onslaught
on her elegant clothes. Mrs. Prior would wince
at the protests as if they had been uttered
against herself, would entice Tommy back to
his comfortable corner, and secretly pat him
to make up for that sudden collapse in his
elated bearing which proved the repulse had
somehow reached a vulnerable spot in his
canine heart. ' You only wanted to tell them
you were glad they had come back, poor old
Tommy ! But they don't care for your gladness,
my dog. I should not waste it upon
them, if I were you. But then you are only
a foolish dog, and so are magnanimous, while

you don't quite understand. Never mind, you
are your old mistress's pet : come and welcome
her, and she will not drive you off.'

There was another person who did not
drive Tommy off, to the vague surprise of everybody,
Mrs. Prior included. Miss Gray, that
charming, reasonable, highly-informed young
woman, instructress of youth, and friend of
Jane Prior, displayed  not nervous terror,
which some learned and clever people, otherwise
invulnerable, have betrayed with regard
to dogs and cats  but childish exultation
when Tommy condescended to put her down
on his list of friends, and began to persecute
her with his attentions. ' Tommy has run to
the drawing-room door to meet me  he has,
indeed.' 'He has leaped up almost to the
crown of my head.' ' Look  look  he is
pulling me in by the hem of my gown, the
kind darling. He will take a long walk
with me next,' she told everybody who would
listen to her. She applauded his begging

more ecstatically than Mrs. Prior herself commended
his extraordinary feats in this respect ;
for Tommy could still sit up for five minutes
at a time, as if he had swallowed a ramrod,
looking more like the British Grenadier than
the genuine article looked. Miss Gray was
constantly caught surreptitiously rewarding
the performance with choice morsels from
her plate.

Tommy was in the habit of exhibiting other
engaging attributes in which, to tell the truth,
there was more of childlike confidence in his
friends' indulgence than of doglike humility,
or of a modest, retiring disposition. He
would plant his two shaggy front paws one
on each foot of a shivering individual toasting
his or her toes on the fender. He would
look up with calm affectionate assurance
amounting to sublime nonchalance in the
writhing face of the unfortunate sufferer  of
whose crushed toes, Tommy, with his by no
means light weight, was ruthlessly making a

soft cushion for the sensitive soles of this own
paws. At another time he would have a
cunning eye to the footstool with which
some luxurious creature was supplementing
his or her general well-being. He would
pertinaciously watch his opportunity, never
forgetting the main chance, for a period of
hours. He would deliberately insinuate first
one paw and then another on the coveted
stool, and try, by an insidious appeal to
human feelings, or by bodily pressure in a
slow, shoving process, to remove the owner's
feet, and to establish in their place his fat
body. At last, if the grudged possessor of
the bone of contention unwarily rose for a
second, then, quick as thought, the last remnant
of Tommy's alertness was displayed in
seizing on the goal of his ambition, which
was frequently far too small for his requirements.
He had to poise himself upon it
uneasily, with all his superfluous bulk quivering
for lack of sufficient support, or to stretch

himself with his head hangiiiij overboard  po
that the blood ought to have rushed to his
obstinate head  while his hind legs dangled
helplessly in the opposite direction.

Miss Gray could never see that these were
scandalous liberties on Tommy's part. She
laughed till the tears came into her eyes, she
endured without a murmur  even proudly
welcomed excruciating torture when her feet
happened to be those on which Tommy threw
his solid weight in improvising cushions upon
the fender. She promptly resigned her footstool
for his use, as if she was only too happy
to serve him. She might have been a child
with her first pet. Jane, who had her own
inclination to hero-worship, and had begun to
worship Miss Gray, was forced to own to herself
that her new friend, with her natural
endowments and college training, could be
positively silly on some points  to wit, her
behaviour to dogs. It was a proof of that
want of absolute perfection in anybody, even

in a scholarly woman, which Jane detected
with regret. But one thing was certain, and
it was a comfort to know it  Miss Gray was
not at all in the position of an old cowed
dependent and toast-eater, who was lamentably
deficient in the attainments she professed
to impart, and so was forced to ingratiate
herself with the very animals of the family.
Bennet Gray was a highly-gifted, elaborately-equipped
young woman, independent and
responsible in her calling, with an acknowledged
position and rights which nobody
would dream of invading. Times have
changed for the better with the Bennet
Grays of society, even within the last quarter
of the nineteenth century. Miss Gray's
penchant for Tommy, like her great liking
for Tommy's mistress, was gratuitous and
beyond suspicion.

If the saying, 'Love me, love my dog,'
contains any truth, there is a corresponding
saying at least as influential in some instances

' Love my dog, and I'll love you.' Mrs.
Prior and Bennet Gray had arrived at such
an advanced stage of friendship that the
former would, without being asked or led upto
the subject, begin three out of every four
of their conversations with the prelude  ' Miss
Gray, you have heard of my son who has taken
a voyage to Australia ? Poor boy ! he is far
from home and among novel surroundings, but
I am sure he has not forgotten his mother.'
Then would follow an anecdote of Jack's youth
or maturity. There was an exhaustless stock
of similar stories, extending from his childhood,
through his school-days, to his present manhood.
The tales were an excuse for long lists
of his good qualities, tastes, and habits.
Neither were the visions which had once
been entertained of his future entirely left
out. A gallant fight was made for them,
though there were signs that the old dreams
were fading under the burden of disappointment,
doubt, and apprehension, which even the



fondest and most faithful heart could not refuse
to own.

Miss Gray listened with endless patience,
nay, with keenest interest in the shining eyes,
which she instinctively cast down, so tell-tale
was their light.

These confidences where a strong indication
of Mrs. Prior's deepening regard for her young
ally. They were also some relief to the elder
woman, since the young man's name was rarely
mentioned in his family. John Prior had
turned against his son, and Jane had gone
with her father in the dispute. As for Susie
and Lambert Crabtree, they were like Gallic ;
they cared for none of these things. It would
not matter to them though her father quarrelled
with Jack beyond the possibility of reconciliation.
The estate of Eedcot was entailed on
male heirs, and there was no likelihood of the
entails being broken. For anything farther
the Priors  father and son  could manage
their own affairs, including the discord between

them. It was, strictly speaking, no business
of the Crabtrees', especially as Susie had not
the slightest intention of quarrelling with
either of the disputants. She would show
the world that she could be on good terms
with both. Did she not like to stand well
with everybody?

One day a letter came to Mrs. Prior from
her son, full of all the colonial wonders and
news about himself which he thought would
interest her.

The letter arrived with the morning's post,
and Mr. Prior took it out of the bag at breakfast
time. He knew the handwriting before he
glanced at the post mark, and he handed the
letter to his wife without remark. But his
wide nostrils involuntarily expanded and contracted,
there was a nervous twitch of his full
under-lip, and the furrow between his shaggy,
straggling brows was ploughed still deeper.

Mrs. Prior coloured up with mingled
pleasure and indignation, and put the letter

in lier pocket without tearing open the
envelope.

She cannot open it before me,' John Prior
said to himself ; ' she has not the face to do it.
It contains too much that is not fit to be read
in my presence. Her precious son is asking
her for money or abusing us all round, and
her face would betray her. She could not
suppress that evidence.'

I will not read it before him,' Mrs. Prior
told herself as she drank her tea with her
hand shaking so much that she could hardly
hold the cup. ' His own father ! and not to
ask if the boy is well, or if he writes of coming
home  as if he had done anything really
wrong  as if he had been a scapegrace like
Ned Owen ! Jack was only not very diligent
over his books and a little extravagant. It
was pardonable enough in a lad  hundreds at
Oxford do the same. It is too bad in his
father.'

Neither did Jane Prior put any question.

VOL. I. N

She did care to hear what her brother was
doing, though not to a tithe of the extent that
his mother cared. But she was silent on
principle, as Jane did many things that had,
perhaps, better been trusted to the impulse of
the moment than to principle.

Mrs. Prior was not naturally a taciturn
woman ; she had womanly reserve and prudence,
but sympathy was also very dear to her.
When it was denied to her from legitimate
sources, she was fain to quench her thirst at
the irregular spring which had sprung up for
her in the desert of her life.

The next time she caught Bennet Gray
alone, Mrs. Prior, as if to indemnify herself for
the privation she was subjected to, and to
revenge herself on those who ought to have
cared, and did not care, to hear her letter,
poured forth her information. She boasted
with innocent mother-boasting of Jack's exploits.
He had been at one of the diggings.
He had spent three days in the bush camping

out. He had seen no end of opossums. His
correspondent enlarged with quickly-roused
admiration upon his sensible views and judicious
intentions.

Miss Gray was a good listener here also,
and did not fail to satisfy the eager speaker.
But when Bennet was shut into her room she
covered her face with her hands to hide her
scarlet cheeks. ' I could beat myself,' she
groaned, ' I feel such a hypocrite. What will
she think when she knows ? Will even Jack
be able to forgive me when it all comes to his
ears ? Shall I ever forgive myself . '

Then she drew from her pocket a thick
letter and slit open an outer envelope. The
letter enclosed was marvellously like that from
which she had just heard various details.
Indeed, the cleverest expert would have been
puzzled to detect a difference in the handwriting,
and the Sydney postmark was the
same, though Miss Gray's letter had come to
her under an English cover, addressed by a

N 2

woman's hand, and bearing the stamp of one of
the midland towns.

Bennet pored over the pages, and seemed
to forget her contrition to the extent of being
disgracefully triumphant, because they contained
projects revealed to her alone.

He does not tell his mother of his inquiries
into the price of land and of his going to see
different lots, or of his reckoning as to how
fast a log house could be run uj. What would
she say if she were told that it was I who sent
her son so far away from her and everybody ! '
Miss Gray rose in her excitement, and began
to walk up and down the room, and to speak
half aloud, as if she were pleading her cause
against an invisible accuser. ' Oh ! dear Mrs.
Prior, I could not help it. There was no other
way then. I was forced to see, for his sake as
well as my own, whether he was in earnest,
whether he could give up things  this friends
among them. I had not learned to know you,
and I did not wish to go where I should never

be wanted, and to take what would always begrudged
to me. Besides, I saw enough and
heard enough, from himself, to be aware that
he had other friends  companions rather, idle,
rich, and inconsiderate  not generous like him,
who were no good, and among whom he would
never do good. I had to make myself certain
that he could renounce his past, begin anew,
and live and work in earnest for himself and
me. There was no other way then ; it would
have been our only chance, and I had to put it
before him, because, though I was no older, I
had known another side of life. I seemed
called on to decide for both.'

She sat down again and studied the letter
once more, giving herself up to happier
ideas.

There is no need now, dear, rash, impulsive
Jack,' she told another than Mrs. Prior in
accents of exultation instead of pleading, ' for
exile and toil, on borrowed money too  none
in the world, thank God for it, for your sake.

and mine, and hers ; and oh ! surely some day
for your poor father's.'

There was no end to the reflections which
that letter produced. The next thing Miss
Gray did was to take a packet of thin paper
from her desk and contemplate it lovingly 
deprecatingly.

I shall have to answer as soon as possible,
of course, and what a letter I have got to write
now that I have received an address ! You
have been better off than I in that respect, sir.
You had Mary Burton's address to write to incase
I quitted Berkshire. That quitting was
rather different from anything we had thought
of. It was sudden, but it was not at all disagreeable.
I had the luxury of the best cab
from the station all to myself. I could take
my entire luggage, and I had no trouble either
about the weight or anything else, for not only
was I a first-class passenger, Mr. Joliffe, goodman
! though he had sometimes treated me
cavalierly enough, insisted on being at the

station to see me off, as if I could no longer
take care of myself. I wonder if anybody ever
had half so much to say before in a letter as I
have tD write to Jack speculated Miss Gray,
leaning forward on her crossed arms, and not
knowing where to begin, from sheer embarras
de richesses. ' He will be surprised until he
has no surprise left to feel, though the sky
were to topple over on his head. It will be
so strange for him to know that I am here, and
so curious for him to read my first impressions
and he far away, if he is not angry with me for
coming. But he can see that when Jane's
letter of inquiry was forwarded to me, the
temptation was irresistible, especially when I
had nothing else to do, and when I owed something
to myself and to the friends I had,' she
meditated pensively, and raising her head with
a little air of pride, ' I mean I was bound to
satisfy Mary Burton and her father, that my
first step was not to throw myself and all the
rest of it away without making a single investigation.

So much for your not having been
always the wisest of men, poor, dear Jack,' she
broke off with a rueful shake of the head ;
and for exposing yourself to the necessity of
probation by way of punishment. But you
were good, true-hearted, uncalculating,' she told
herself more warmly than ever, ' when you
gave me as manly and honest a heart as ever
beat. Your mother and I know what it is,
and that it could never have led you far astray.
You may think, and be quite wrong, that I
have never trusted you  that I have stolen a
march upon you  and you may be, perhaps,
a little vexed and annoyed ; but still, because
of the other glad news the clearing away of
all our difficulties, the joy that is coming to us
you will condone my worst offences, Jack.
You will set sail with the next ship ; the long,
weary way and the sea, where there are storms
and wrecks, will soon be passed, and you will
be at home with your mother and me.'

Unquestionably Bennet Gray's private cogitations

bore an alarming resemblance to those
of the syren adventuresses of fiction, of whom
we wot. But these alluring heroines have not,
as a rule, passed through colleges of preceptresses,
surmounted stiff examinations, and
aspired to university honours. They have in
general been the offspring of purported credulous
advertisements, or replies to the same
in Metropolitan newspapers, and of a confiding
willingness to dispense with all references.
Neither have the enchantresses been distinguished,
as a rule, by their respectful
affection for elderly ladies, and foolish fondness
for superannuated dogs.

In the end, of the two letters which were
all that went from Eedcot, addressed to Jack
Prior, entrusted to the mercies of the next
colonial mail, the one was written by his
mother and the other by his sister. Jane
thawed enough to be induced to ascertain
where Jack was and what he was doing, as a
prelude to sending him  not all the news of

the neighbourhood  her mother would do
that, but a slightly high and dry, though not
unkind, missive. Strange to say, Miss Gray
did not address a letter to any man  Jack
among them. She was not guilty of more
than sending what the ' Polite Letter writer '
would have called ' a copious epistle,' to judge
from its bulk, doubtless containing a score of
profound maxims and a host of learned saws,
to her friend,

*Miss Burton,

Girls' Grammar School,

W ,

S shire.

CHAPTER X.

SPRING OBLIGATIONS AT KERSHAW.

The arrangement which had domesticated Miss
Gray at Eedcot continued to work admirably.
The children got on well with her, and were
fond of her. Jane enjoyed the stimulus given
by the neighbourhood of a kindred spirit, while
the two girls studied late and early in the half
sublime folly of youth, which is grandly spendthrift
of health and strength till the day of
reckoning is forced upon the prodigal. Each
pursued her own course of reading for the Oxford
examination, comparing notes constantly
on the progress the other made, and feeling
spurred on by the comparison to attack with
spirit a new authority.

Mrs. Prior liked to hear how busy the young
people were, and to see how well and happy
they looked in their abundance of work. In
her secret mind she thought it was that which
was really of consequence, and that it did not
matter half so much what was the nature of the
work  so that it was honest  whether it was
shell grottos, or paper flowers, or ancient philosophy.
Everything had its place and served its
purpose in the great, wonderful, complicated
economy of the world. There was a day for
small things, as well as a day for great, and the
first was not to be despised any more than the
last was to be depreciated. She believed there
was use for her quilts, while she greatly admired
and respected the cleverness and depth of the
new generation. She could hardly find words
strong enough to express her satisfaction with
Miss Gray  such a scholar, so unaffected, unassuming,
kind-hearted, so wise with the children,
so companionable for Jane, so little in Mr.
Prior's way, giving no more trouble than she

could help to the servants, such a dear young
friend for Mrs. Prior herself!

Even John Prior, though he took much less
notice of Bennet than the other members of the
family did, liked her and considered her, if
such an addition to the establishment was necessary,
in the light of an acquisition rather than a
detriment. Miss Gray was a little despairing
sometimes of her relations to the master of the
house. She feared that after all her vain dreams
she had made no way with him at all. But she
was partly mistaken.

Susie Crabtree was gracious and caressing
to the Piedmont children's governess every time
the two women encountered each other. At
the same time the popular matron tried to get
as much out of the teacher as she could conveniently
extract, in the shape of useful hints
about lesson books and modes of employing
them for the future benefit of Molly and Piers.
Lambert Crabtree stared Bennet Gray out
of countenance with his great prominent light

eyes, as he was in the habit of staring handsome
young women down. He cried, ' Hey !
Miss Gray, ain't you sick of grammars and
spelling-books, and of little sinners wading
through them ? Now, how many times have
you boxed the small Woods' ears to-day ? Tell
me honestly,' and sought to make game of her
rather more rudely than he aimed at taking ofi
the rest of his world.

Both husband and wife were profuse in
their attentions, such as they were, to Bennet
Gray, whom that hair-brained enthusiast and
learned goose Jane had taken up to such an
extent. She had established Miss Gray at
Eedcot as if she were on a perfect equality with
her employers, and it was a great favour on her
part to come and stay with them, and receive
her board and pocket her salary for being nota
quarter of the day in the schoolroom, giving
a few elementary lessons to the little Woods,
and for anything more, fooling Jane to the top
of her bent. But, of course, Jane would resent

furiously any interference with her paragon,
any attempt however desirable and gone about
with the greatest delicacy, to put her in her
proper place. It would be better if it were
even in old Roster's place. Mam-ma, who
deferred absurdly to Jane, had always been
weak in her treatment of subordinates. Susie
would not for the world be hard upon them 
on the contrary she would load them with kindness,
but it should always be kindness from the
mistress of the house to the retainer. Mrs.
Crabtree, in spite of her good-nature, disapproved
entirely of professing to make the
governess ' one of the family '  which could
never be, having her to dinner as well as to
luncheon, giving her the run of the drawing-room
when she was not professionally engaged
in the schoolroom  her proper place, and so
spoiling her for her line in life.

Both of the Crabtrees  Lambert, in his offhand
fashion ; Susie, in her sugared sharpness
spoke disparagingly of Miss Gray behind her

back between themselves, and that all the more
because of Jane Prior's championship. Husband
and wife arrived on different grounds at the
same conclusion. They considered Miss Gray,
whom Mrs. Prior described as unaffected and
unassuming, very much of a humbug, and decidedly
pretentious for her circumstances. But
the Crabtrees did not go out of their way to
speak evil of their neighbours : so much might
be said for the couple. His vole was that of a
hail-fellow-well-met with everybody. She was
too busy with her own concerns not to forget
those of her fellow-creatures who did not cross
her path. In that case her instinct was to
cajole, and, if possible, win them over, never
roundly to abuse them.

Time was passing ; the winter had done its
worst, and was going  well-nigh gone. The
landmark of Christmas, kept very quietly at
Eedcot, was well rounded, and even February
had waned. What poets and moralists call the
harbingers of spring had been seen and heard.

Snowdrops, yellow balls of aconite, pale buds
of primroses, shrivelling up at their own audacity,
had begun to show themselves on the
flowerless earth. The catkins of the hazel and
poplar had been before the primroses. Slender,
erect twigs of snow berry bushes were forming
miniature groves all by themselves, and viewing
with the thick drooping branches of the tall
larch trees, in bursting into vivid green. Sanguine
crowing young cocks of blackbirds were
singing down the faithful robins that had piped
out the shortest day.

The transformation had begun in Eedcot
Quarry, to which John Prior still stalked,
stumbling a little over the stones as the season
wore on, and the protracted trial was telling on
his bodily strength. He continued to go doggedly
and by stealth to his post on the chill
afternoons, at the period of the year when all
the brightness departs with the morning, and
the afternoon brings at best leaden clouds and
cold winds. Notwithstanding that spring was
VOL. I.

yet early, and four o'clock saw the sun far on
the decline, there was a swelling of sap-laden
purple boughs and of down-tipped, glossy,
brown buds. An ethereal powdering of green
began to appear on all sides. There were stirrings
and movings of reawakening plant and
animal life eager to be free, exultant that the
dispensation of death was ended and the resurrection
at the door. It was already a time of
vague, sweet promise, which mocked a hopeless
man.

The most stay-at-home persons, who had
hugged the winter as an excuse for remaining
largely by the hearth, were impelled to speak
of extending short, uncomfortable constitutional
walks into long, voluntary, enjoyable rambles.
People were called on to think of excursions
and projects that had to do with the out-of-door
world, which had been laid aside and metaphorically
wrapped in cotton wool, while November
hid his poverty and rags in a succession of
white mists, and December and January alternately

dripped in sullen tear-drops which did
not even glitter in the gloom, or froze in fierce,
black frosts, that held the world in an iron grip.
Eedcot had its obligations in the fine
weather, and Jane. Prior had her share in these
obligations. They were not necessarily confined
to society in its ordinary claims. Neither was
Jane selfish in her personal tastes. She would
willingly have elevated the whole human race
along with herself in her striving after higher
issues. She did what she could. She was continually
lending instructive ' papers ' and books
to the young house and table maids, even to
the elderly cook. There would be the difficulty
to get the recipients of these loans, without flat
tyranny, to read enlightened explanations of
how beds should be made and wineglasses
dried. Camilla and Clara had quite enough of
their work when they had done it. They desired
other recreation than was to be found in
reading about it at every spare moment. Miss
Prior should try how she would like if she were



not allowed to get a change, but had to consent
to mattresses and wash leathers being for ever
poked at her and dangled before her eyes ?
Servants had a literature of their own, which
was not dry and sermonising and tied down
to service. On the contrary, the reading in
Camilla's and Clara's weekly newspaper was
highly imaginative. It transported the readers
to a charmed region, in which they were not
doomed to herd with fellow servants alone,
though they were worth a deal more than their
mistresses guessed. In such literature servants
could mix with grand ladies, to whom Miss
Prior, with her crony the governess, could not
hold the candle, and there were fine lords to
match the ladies.

As for Martha, the cook, she vowed that if
she sent up her roast joints and rabbit pies,
and cabinet puddings, to please the master and
mistress, she was not going to be worried
by none of Miss Jane's printed fads about
baking stealing the taste from a thing, and

boiling beinor taken at the minute, and stewing
having become a lost art. Lost indeed ! as if
she could not stew with an onion as well as
any woman in her own Buckinghamshire.
Had Miss Jane or her friends who printed
cookery ever tried their hands at boiling or
stewing P Well, till they did, they had better
let a proper cook as knew her business alone.

Jane attacked the coachman and the gardener,
but they were equally wedded to their
ways, and unapproachable on the scores of
driving and gardening.

Father,' said Jane, one evening at dinner,
what about the sanitation in the pits ? '

Now, as it happened, John Prior had come
home that afternoon in deep depression,
condemned to judge from the movements of
the borers that the Kershaw pits and all
connected with them were doomed. The
sanitation, as Jane called it, would be of small
account then. The question was decidedly
ill-timed.

Sanitation,' be drawled, as if a half-awake
stupidity and absence of mind contended with
his testiness. 'Sanitation,' he repeated, pausing
upon the term as if he had never heard it
before, and was chewing it previous to
digesting it ; ' what do you mean by sanitation
? '

Oh, you know ; the health condition of
the pits,' explained Jane, staring.

Well, as I keep an agent, who is supposed
to have learnt his trade, and as it is a matter
of certainty that, if he and I fail, the Government
inspector will be down upon us, I don't
think you need trouble your head about that,*
said Mr. Prior in weary sardonicalness. He
added to himself, as he looked into his hock
glass, ' You may soon have more to do. I hope
your lexicon and theses will put bread into
your mouth.'

'What made me inquire,' persisted Jane,
in her calm, judicial voice, utterly ignoring her
mother's warning glance, 'was that I heard

there was a good deal of typhoid fever at
Kershaw last winter

Have you only found that out at this
date ? ' was her father's retort.

Why, Jane, did you not hear,' her mother
interposed, ' that the doctor at the works sent
us word, and Martha prepared quantities of
kitchen stuff? I don't think we have sent such
supplies to the Colliers' Vows since the dreadful
explosion in 1867, before you can recollect.'

Jane sat convicted of not having been quite
aware either of what took place at the pits or
of what was going on in the house. She was
not to be let off with this exposure of her weak
points. ' Before you unhesitatingly associate
typhoid fever with pit sanitation, as you call it,'
remarked John Prior with a parting snarl at
the word, ' you had better make yourself
acquainted with the habits of the miners, the
quantity and quality of their food and drink,
for instance, the manner in which they manage
to shirk the regulations against over-crowding

their houses with lodgers, and introducing as
many bull-dog puppies as infants into the
rooms, before you throw all the blame on the
unlucky coal owners. One would think that a
little esprit de corps might come in and help to
keep the balance level

I am sorry if I have appeared to reflect
upon your arrangements, father,' said Jane,
who had really a great respect for her father,
and was not beyond making reparation for a
supposed wrong done to him. At the same
time she was not going to give up her principles.
If the miners are more gluttonous and drunken
than other working men, if they live more like
brutes, with their amusements lower and more
degrading than other men's amusements, and if
this has been true for centuries, I am afraid the
proprietors have something to answer for.
They may not have meant to wrong the men.
The masters may not always have known better
in the past, or been able to do better themselves.
Still, I cannot see how they can have

been without fault,' said Jane, with an earnest
desire to be fair.

Mr. Prior did not reply ; lie was sick of
the subject. To twit a man with the sins of the
coal-owners when he was on the verge of
having no coal to own was worse than useless
it was the irony of fate. If he had ever
been a passive instrument in suffering a great
industry to grow without a corresponding
provision for the wants and temptations of the
labourers in that industry, retribution had come
in the shape of the withdrawal of the power,
and there was an end of it.

Jane's next philanthropic movement was to
offer, with Miss Gray's concurrence  now that
the weather was better, but before it had got
so fine as to suggest unlimited football and
cricket matches for the lads in the afternoons
and evenings  to drive over twice a week to
the colliery village of Kershaw on the moor,
to help the Rector with his classes. The Ev.
Herbert Haynes had exerted himself to open a

kind of rough club-room for collier lads, with
classes for such of them as had any open or
smothered wish to improve themselves. But
Mr. Haynes was getting up in years, and had a
delicate wife, with neither son nor daughter
at home. He had many irons in the fire, and
he feared he must relinquish this particular
iron from incapacity either to wield it regularly
himself or to provide an available substitute in
his absence. Then Miss Prior came to his aid
and offered to go over regularly to Kershaw
and teach any branch within her range. She
was fired by the idea of hungry aspirants for
knowledge being turned away empty from the
inexhaustible stores.

Jane could not have done the thing by
herself, but Miss Gray was there to keep her
company. In addition, Mr. Haynes's parish
clerk, who was the secretary of the club, could
play the part of one of the stewards at a balla
sort of male chaperon, and help the young
ladies to keep order among the somewhat

difficult audience. Finally, Mr. Haynes would
look in as often as he could to make the matter
still simpler and more practicable.

Mr. and Mrs. Prior did not make any
objection, even although the old phaeton had
to take the road twice a week, and Jane and
Miss Gray had to be absent from dinner on
these occasions. John Prior was not a full-blown
tyrant. There had been a time in his
life when he might not only have been amused
by the Amazonian enterprise, he might have
applauded it heartily. His reign was all but
over ; it was as well that it should close with a
feminine flourish of fifes rather than of
trumpets. He only reserved to himself the
right of growling and grumbling at the small
inconveniences to which he nevertheless submitted.


CHAPTEE XI.

AMATEUR Lecturers.

The girls did not tire soon of their self-imposed
task  when it came to that, one of them was
not an amateur ; and if the Board schoolmaster
was placed hors de combat by professional
scruples and professional fatigue, the same
reservation might have applied equally to
Bennet Gray. But Bennet had an excellent
gift of being interested in everything, especially
everything that had to do with Eedcot. She
extended her interest to the grimy coal-pits
the gaunt shears and piston, with their relentless
iron clang and rattle  the boilers ostentatiously
puffing steam from their safety-valves. She
cared to see the ugly rows of colliers' houses.

which, in spite of the good wages said to be
spent in them, could not escape a chronic
sordidness. She wished to walk on the bleak
moor, with even its sandy vegetation blackened
and blighted, trodden down and strewn with
cinders, encumbered by heaps of rubbish,
intersected with rusty dwarf railways for
waggons, threaded with a wasteful multitude
of footpaths for many a yard round the pit
mouth.

Bennet did not shrink from the burly,
round-shouldered men in blue flannels, with
the whites of the eyes and what of the skin
was not coated with coal-dust acquiring a
ghastly and demoniacal prominence  an eject
increased by the red glimmer of the lamps in
the caps. She listened breathlessly to the tales
of subterranean life, with its dreary hardships
and awful dangers. She stood and tried to
realise to herself how the scene must have
looked on the occasion of the great fire-damp
explosion. A roar and a rumble as of thunder,

and a shaking of the earth beneath the feet,
a cloud of smoke and dust rising from the pita
frantic whirling round of the pit gear,
followed by a sudden standstill of the machinery
as when a clock or a watch that has
been recklessly wound up in the agitation of
the moment, snaps and stops ominously in the
chamber of death. Bennet could almost fancy
she heard the rush to the cottage doors, the
sobbing wail of women's voices taken up
and prolonged, the wildly irregular, feeble
patter of the feet of the wives and mothers,
hurrying seriously beyond their strength to
know the worst of the tragedy.

The experiment in which Jane Prior and
Miss Gray took part was fairly successful.
The half-grown lads, however uncouth and
unruly to their schoolmaster, did not refuse
to be amenable to the daughter of the owner
of the pits and the other fine young madam,
whom at the same time her pupils addressed,
in an unvarnished fashion that ought to have

done good to the hearts of reformers in
education, as ' Schoolmistress.' The drawback
was the dense atmosphere of bashfulness that
surrounded the scholars. In vain Jane Prior
spread out her geographical maps and hung up
her physiological diagrams, and gave admirably
succinct yet comprehensive explanations.
They were nought against the intangible
barrier.

Miss Gray followed suit with further lectures,
not quite so clear and cuttingly concise perhaps,
but in some respects more interesting in their
picturesque discursiveness. Neither did she
break through the thick mist of clumsy self-consciousness,
overpowering false shame, and
abject dread of ridicule.

If the courageous young lecturers dreamed
of anything in the nature of an observation,
whether acquiescent or dissentient, from the
rude human material they had to work upon,
any faintest ghost of a question or an objection
to indicate that the audience heard or attended

to the words spoken, then the rash dreamers
found themselves very much mistaken.

The girls were considerably daunted by
their failure to elicit a spark from the cold iron
on which they hammered with all their might.
At last it struck Bennet, who was the more
original, the more visited by inspiration of the
two, to appeal to individual curiosity, ' Have
none of you relations abroad that you would
like to hear about ? ' she asked anxiously.

A slight sensation followed the speech. One
youth was more moved than the rest. Possibly
the renown of spiritualism with grotesque variations
had travelled even to Kershaw Moor, and
a display of it was expected, enough to provoke
any amount of nudges and grins, for there was
no lack of hard-headdress among the sons of
the soil.

With a convulsion of the shoulders  already
brawny and already bowed  and a contortion
of his face, Jim Ashe gave utterance to an admission
in a sepulchral whisper that he had an

uncle and cousins in America. Party Noakes,
yonder, had brothers in New Zealand ; Bill
Tummas, he weren't sure, for it were afore his
day, that his mother  as had married again a
lodger, hadn't gone with the regiment to Eoosia,
where the wars was, and stayed there after her
second man was killed.

Well, wouldn't you like to hear what the
places are like where your friends are ? then
those at home can understand better any letters
that come, and have a more correct guess what
the absent people are doing,' suggested Bennet,
insinuatingly.

There were one or two slow nods and well-nigh
inaudible ' Ay, surely ' to the teachers, as
well as sundry nudges  approving, critical, or
derisive  among the taught, in reply to this
offer, and Jane and Bennet threw themselves
once more into the undertaking, and renewed
their expositions with fresh zest.

The thin wedge was inserted. The big
boys were roused to care a little for what they
VOL. I. p

were hearing  to forget who were speaking,
and even who were listening. Somebody was
induced to come up and look at the spot on the
map that all the talking was about, and three or
four others, with shuffling feet, crowded after
their companion, sheeplike, to gain the same
advantage.

Some other body cried, half under his
breath, ' By Golly ! ' when he heard of the virgin
corn, the wild turkeys, the sheep runs, the
cherries which grow stone outwards. It was
not an elegant expression, it had even a flavour
of profanity, but there was a certain satisfaction
in it, as showing pleased wonder in place of
stolid indifference.

Matters progressed till Jim Ashe was not
above rehearsing the number of his bones, and
candidly confessing he never snowed he had
such a many or such heaps of sinews  for all
the world like sticks strung up in a faggot.
And Bill Tummas was brought to believe by
the aid of the glasses in a telescope that he saw

with the back of his eyes as well as with the
front  in fact, it was the picture on the back
that did it.

Then all at once the lecturers made an astounding
discovery. There was one phlegmatic
young miner who had listened to everything
and said nothing, that knew all about it beforehand.
He was as full-fledged an impostor as
any prisoner in jail who is a dexterous penman,
but gets rid of some of the tedium of his incarceration
and curries favour with the chaplain
by the rogue's putting his tongue in his cheek,
and beguiling the worthy man to toil on in the
pleasing delusion that he is inducting a promising
scholar into the mystery of pot-hooks. This
collier of the future happened to have brains 
he could read, he had devoured all the printed
matter he could come across, and having once
had the chance to break his leg in the discharge
of his duties, and to be supported at Mr. Prior's
expense for seven or eight weeks, he had even
enjoyed a little leisure for the improvement of

p 2

his mind. As he was regarded somewhat in
the light of a monster and a deserter from the
traditions of his class by his companions, he
might be forgiven for hiding his talent in a
napkin. His betrayal was purely accidental.
Miss Gray had let her thoughts get entangled
in the net-work of veins and arteries on the
diagram before her, and was on the point of
tripping, when she was caught up from an
unexpected quarter. 'Nay, schoolmistress,'
burst out the pedant, ' T' blue runs t'other
way.'

It was as when Brutus spoke with the voice
of a man. Jane, who had little or no sense of
humour, simply stared. Bennet tittered in a
spasmodic effort to restrain a peal of laughter.
Hear till him ! ' cried the rest of the class excitedly
; ' hear till Noah King having the
inference to fault schoolmistress  set him up !
Though he do know a thing or two, he's nonesuch
a scholar as that comes to. Turn him
out ! turn him out ! '

But he is right, and I am wrong cried
Bennet, in horror lest condign punishment
should be inflicted on the modern Galileo before
her face. ' It is I and not he who deserve to
be punished, only I'm sure you'll excuse a slip
of the tongue, and let me say that I'm exceedingly
obliged to Noah King for correcting my
mistake. He does credit to his teacher,' she
added enviously, with a recollection of the next
to futile labours of the last few weeks.

Jane had recovered herself. She had a turn
for organising and economising power. ' Noah
King,' she said, ' you take the foot of the class,
and if nobody else can answer, you put what
you know into your own words, and it will
save us from saying it over again.' The device
answered, and the station allotted to Noah forbade
jealousy.

The class increased instead of diminishing,
and admission to it was actually coveted. In
proof of it, the first lad who had spoken out to
the ladies, confided to them that he knew of

another chap who would come to the club-room
if he knew what to do with his ' baby ' in his
absence. He was a young widower, who had
neither mother nor sister, while his late wife had
come from a distance, and had no relations in the
place. He lived alone, save for the child, in a
cottage a quarter of a mile off. He was accustomed
to bring the child every morning, and
leave it for the hours he was in the pit with
one of the women in the nearest row. But he
took the ' baby ' home with him, and if he came
to the class, which was not held in a house in
one of the rows, but in a building fitted up for
the purpose, standing midway between the
Rectory and the works, he would either have to
lock up the child alone in the cottage, or to
walk a considerable distance out of his way 
both coming and going  to fetch the little girl
to and from the particular row. ' Joe thinks,'
his ambassador ventured to propose, ' that if he
were let bring the baby here, as is a good
wench going three, he could keep her main

%

quiet, for she would sleep like a top the most
of the time.'

It was a puzzling proposal for those who
were cultivating popularity, and aiming hard at
giving satisfaction. ' I think I know who " Joe "
is,' said Jane Prior, aside in consultation. ' He
is not much older than the rest, though he has
been married and has a baby. Mr. Haynes
spoke of him at the time the lad's wife  the
merest girl  died. My brother used to know
the husband, and have him to go with him,
Jack, across the moor to shoot snipes and
plovers. The collier boy was acquainted withall
the birds' haunts, though it might not have
been wise to encourage the acquaintance. Some
of the colliers are the most desperate poachers
in this part of the country. They have cost my
father no end of trouble as a landlord and
Justice of the Peace.'

Do they poach on Mr. Prior's land ? '
Xo ; but it was not pleasant to have his
own men brought up before him and his fellow-justices.

He could not help saying a word in
the culprit's favour, because of the relations
between them, which made them look to him
to help them, though he threatened every time
he would never do it again. However, I daresay
you have learned by this time my father's
bark is worse than his bite. Another thing, he
was alive to the deprivations of the men in
their underground life.'

No doubt your brother would use the same
argument in taking this Joe to shoot with
him,' said Miss Gray, a little formally and
stupidly.

 No,' said Jane, with a droop of the corners
of her mouth. ' My brother would not want
an argument if he liked the lad, and he had a
fancy for him. Jack  my brother  went down
the pits in the same cage, and he believed that
once when his inexperience brought him into
some kind of danger Joe Jones's presence of
mind and fidelity to his charge saved him from
the painful consequences.'

Don't you think we might have the child ? '
Bennet began to plead, pressing her hands together
with nervous eagerness, according to a
trick she had. ' If we refused, it would seem
so disobliging and unrelaxino, and make such a
bad impression. Surely among so many grownup
people the little thing might be nursed, sat
upon, suppressed. Certainly it is not good for
her to be out late, but I am afraid that must
often happen. Think of a little child like that
having nobody to care for her save her father,
and he quite a young fellow ! '

Joe Jones, a thin pale-faced lad  preternaturally
thoughtful and careworn, was suffered
to bring his child  sickly, and ill got-up in its
faded cotton frock and an old washed-out shawl
of its mother's. It was withheld from screaming,
but seemed always on the brink of the performance,
as it sat up with wide open blinking eyes,
which it refused to close, even for the forty
winks granted to its elders. Joe was distressed,
and everybody else was on the alert and distracted

from the business of the hour. Miss
Prior looked put out. The elderly parish clerk,
who was a bachelor, and had never approved
of the incongruous introduction of that young
fool Joe Jones's bantling, appeared still more
shaken. More than one of the remaining occupants
of the room showed symptoms of recantation
and secession, and of a mean triumph
in the flooring of their teachers.

Bennet Gray asked if the child might be
tried with her. She could speak with it in her
lap when her turn came, if her hearers would
not mind. She thought she could put the baby
girl to sleep.

Joe, who was a modest lad, still more
sobered down by circumstances, felt horrified
at the trouble he was causing, and reluctantly
consented to impose his burden, which was,
nevertheless, precious to him, upon another.

Bennet was awkward, to begin with, in the
task she had undertaken. She had not been

accustomed to very yoimg children. But she
acted upon her womanly instincts. She cuddled
up the creature in her arms, and bent her lovely,
kind face over it. The shriek with which small
Nancy Jones was about to testify her violent
dislike to being transferred from her father's
arms to those of a stranger died away on the
child's lips. Her round eyes opened yet wider
at the new face presented to them ; her mouth
formed itself into a Three-cornered smile of
bliss,' while the crystal tears were still hanging
on her eye-lashes. She consented to look at the
glorious, glittering, yellow face of Bennet's watch,
produced for the little woman's edification, and
to hearken to the ' tick, tick ' of the extraordinary
thing. She leant back, overcome by the
combination of marvels, took to meditating
upon them, while she sucked her thumb a la
Molly Crabtree, and in five minutes was fast
asleep.

Weel done, schoolmistress,* grunted one of

the lads who had watched the feat, and his unvarnished
applause met with a general echo.
The supremacy of the promoters of the higher
education of mining youth was re-established on
a firmer basis than before.

Chapter XII.

VISITORS  MAT CEABTREE, OP Cambridge, Remembers
A BERKSHIRE MISS GRAY.

Susie Crabtree, who liked to have a finger in
every pie, contrived to look in on these evening
classes at Kershaw. She came by herself just
for a few minutes, to see what was going on.
She won her way out to dinner at a neighbouring
country house, where she would leave
Lambert Crabtree to play cards till the small
hours, and sleep till his horse should arrive intime
to take him back for a meeting of the
bank partners. Such irregularities in his habits
were not unusual in the Newton banker, who
was supposed to have picked them up in his
jovial bachelor days. Mrs. Crabtree had earned

a reputation for true womanly wisdom in not
coming down too hard on practices which she
could not pluck up in a day, if they were ever
to be thoroughly eradicated. That pretty little
fine lady, who had an agreeable word for everybody,
and was not above claiming a neighbour's
help, and taking a tribute of homage from him
whoever he might be, knew what she was
about. Yes, indeed, she knew a great deal
better than your puritanical plain, tremendously
sensible, and overpoweringly good madam,
who would drive a man to distraction by the
height of her virtue, and her rigorous out-and-out
obedience to its demands.

Mrs. Crabtree threw off her fur cloak as
she entered the young colliers' class-room, and
beamed on the Albans within, in what was to
them the splendour of her lace gown, with the
square bodice cut low in front to show the
dazzle of her ivory-white neck, and the sleeves
only coming to the elbows, leaving the round
arms free except for the coils of bracelets. She

wore strings of soft gleaming pearls in her hair
and round her throat, and had pearls and rubies
to match and relieve each other at her wrists
and in the rings on her fingers.

The lads sat more open-eyed and open-mouthed
than Nancy Jones, as the vision flashed
upon them. Some of them smiled sillily, as
when a dog hicks his hips and wags his tail at a
treasure utterly beyond his reach. One or two
among them the heavy lad who knew the
machinery of his body, gloomed sulkily, and
after the first broad stare looked another way.
They would have said, if they could  "We
won't stand being mocked. We are beginning
to know whose sweat pays for all these grand
rags, oyster spawn, bits of red glass, and all ;
who has to be content with bare bread, or
to be grudged beefsteaks and pots of porter
when we are dizzy with the darkness and faint
with the foul air of the pits, and our arms fall
to our sides with the weariness of hewing, while
you strut and sail in your bravery, for which

you never worked a hand's turn. But why
bring it here to sicken and madden us with the
sight, when some of your kind were doing a
poor bit of good, and almost tempting us to believe
you cared for raising us to your level, and
making us men and not simply beasts of burden,
drudges, and slaves ? '

There were fierce rising democrats and demagogues
among the young bears of the Kern
pits, as among the young bears elsewhere
throughout the country.

Lecturers and lectured were nowhere during
the few minutes the spectacle lasted and the
play was played. If anyone had thought of
the business of the evening Susie would not
have suffered the thought to pass into action.
She had her own part to perform, and she was
convinced of its merit and popularity. She
glanced round at the maps and diagrams, gave
them the customary sweet praise  a little
fainter than usual  and perpetrated a few
smart jokes, which shone with a lustre not the

less damaging that it was borrowed, at the
expense of the solid motive of the meeting.
She spoke to one or two of the lads without
further abashing them by waiting for an answer.
She pitied them with an expressive little shrug
for having to come out in the evening in the
dry pursuit of knowledge after the fatigue of
the day. She asked if they would not like
games better, but when told by her sister that
there were the materials for such games as
draughts, backgammon, dominoes, in the adjoining
room on other evenings in the week,
paid no attention to the information. Susie
contented herself with wondering why the committee
(there was no committee) did not get up
concerts instead of playing at keeping school ?
The latter suggestion was in the face of Mrs.
Crabtree's knowledge that Jane Prior was not
musical and that Miss Gray could not be expected
to play and sing through a programme
even if she had the assistance provided by
the performance of ' that divine sonata of

VOL. I. Q

Beethoven's you know, dear,' or ' that enchanting
morsel of Schubert's,' which the critic
would volunteer to supply. On the other hand,
such of the boys as had musical capacities were
being trained into a choir elsewhere, while
to supplement the training 'here would be to
relinquish in a great measure the purpose of
the gathering, with Mr. Haynes's plans on
.behalf of this portion of his parishioners. But
Susie cared for none of these things.

Mrs. Crabtree's last idea was to recall the
fact that the Cowpath Faces  the rowdiest
races far and near  the existence of which
every master with a scrap even of utilitarian
conscience, regretted for his men, would beheld
in the course of a fortnight. She mentioned
these races, and supposed, with an arch
nod, the lads would all be there.

No, none of them was to get up on her
account, Susie said, as she moved to go  a
prohibition which had the effect of causing
all the youths, including the incensed authority

ou the circulation of the blood, to stumble to
their feet. Well, if they would do it, she would
take just one of them. She fixed on the worst
hid there, who was also an imposing-looking,
swarthy young giant, to see her out and open
the carriage door for her.

The selected escort blushed up and grinned
in triumph, while his companions glared at him
enviously.

She is not to come here again,' Jane, who
was much  disturbed, vowed to her coadjutor.
Do you see how she has unsettled the class P
It is horrid to say it of one's sister  I suppose
she cannot help it  but Susie's manner to all
men  great and small, old and young, has
always something of flirtation in it. I hate it,'
muttered honest Jane, ' it makes me feel so
ashamed.'

If Jane had followed Mrs. Orabtree to the
door she would have seen her encounter Mr.
Haynes, and work upon the exemplary, but
slightly grumpy, elderly clergyman with her

q2

blandishments. She dropped her bewildered
collier escort with a gracious nod, and appealed
to Mr. Haynes for his convoy. She
kept him standing bareheaded, with his pepper-and-salt
hair blowing in the cold spring wind,
for five minutes, though she had prefaced her
conversation with the dutiful announcement
that she could not keep her husband waiting,
and it was that wifely consideration which
opened another husband's heart. She
wreathed her charming face in smiles. She
paid her companion pretty humble compliments
on his good offices in general, and this
class-room for the pit boys in particular.
As her father's daughter, she begged to osier
Mr. Haynes the small return of her heartfelt
thanks.

And Mr. Haynes was deeply touched by
Mrs. Crabtree's condescension and sympathy in
paying this flying visit, and doing so much
mischief within its flight. He had barely
thanked Jane Prior and Bennet Gray for their

punctual appearance two nights a-week, and
for all their labour and pains. He had made
them feel, for their good, no doubt, that the
help they gave was no more than their duty.
He had groaned audibly, and shown himself
sternly disinclined to let Jane off from her task,
when the cold in her head, which still disfigured
her even when it was going off, was at
its worst, and Mrs. Prior positively forbade her
daughter to expose herself to the evening air.
He had not concealed the fact that single
women by no means ranked with married
women in his estimation. Neither had he
hidden his impression that the former made too
much of their trifling ailments. Before the
culprits claimed indulgence on such pleas the
maidens ought to be matrons accountable to
husbands for the complainants' health and wellbeing.
Then the case was entirely altered.
For if a clergyman, for instance, was out of
health or was doing too much for her own
peace of mind, it interfered seriously with the

comfort of her lord and master, besides harrowing
his conjugal feelings.

Mrs. Crabtree was not the only visitor at
the Kershaw class-room, though visitors as a
rule were prohibited.

Mr. Haynes vindicated his right to break
through the rules which he himself had laid
down, by bringing in with him one evening,
just as the work was over, a big man in the
prime of life, whom Miss Gray guessed, by
what she had heard, and by the first words
said, to be Mr. Crabtree, of Hay bridge,
Lambert Crabtree's elder brother.

Mat Crabtree was a curious commentary on
the assertion that all our vices are only virtues
which have run riot and grown corrupted.
The hereditary traits which he shared in common
with Lambert, were marked, and it would
have been difficult not to recognise the two menas
brothers, but while Bennet Gray detested
the one with only a civil veil thrown over the
detestation, she felt as if without any prompting,

she could like the other. He was all that
Lambert pretended to be, and was all that he
might have been if rank tares had not grownup
and choked the wheat of his better nature.

Mat Crab tree was the elder born  the
squire ; while the banker who had succeeded
to the more profitable inheritance, and made
the most of it, and was, to all appearance, the
richer man, could only be squires in his
tendencies, and ape the country gentlemen
whose bearing and surroundings were the
objects of his ambition. It was quite lately
that he had tacked Ladslove to his name in
reference to the transaction by which he had
secured the small farm to the bank, and
managed afterwards to change it into a private
possession.

Lambert Crab tree's bulk and floridness,
which were coarse and would soon be gross,
unwieldy, and rubicund, in Mat Crab tree
would never be anything more than the becoming,
slight portliness and rosincss, for his

constitution and years, of a temperate man
who would keep himself in training up to old
age by the hard exercise which he loved.
Where Lambert was bragging and bullying in
his bluffness, Mat was only frank and cordial.
Mat, too, was fond of field sports, but his fondness
for hunting and shooting, like his fondness
for farming, had been qualified and dignified
by the reputation for scholarship which he had
brought with him from the university, and still
retained, not without reason, after more than
twenty years' retirement at Haybridge. Mat
was also given to rallying his neighbours 
above all, Jane Prior. He had known her
from her childhood, and especially from the
time of his brother's marriage. She had continued
a standing wonder to him, which he had
contemplated with a mixture of admiration and
amusement. But Mat's rallying attitude was
by no means the sole attitude of his mind
towards any human being ; it was that of a
man of good sense and good feeling who

respects this neighbour as he respects himself.
The raillery was seldom ill-timed, and, though
it provoked Jane, and was apt to cause her to
treat the offender with lofty disdain, the provocation
was rather due to the lack of humour in
the woman, which in itself tickled Mat Crab-tree,
than to any real ground of complaint on
her part. For he was with most people the
well liked man who could, almost without trying
it, influence his fellows, which Lambert
sought to be, only partially succeeding in the
attempt.

There was one tiling in which Lambert
Crabtree had the advantage over Mat, if it
could be called an advantage. The younger
brother, at the age of forty-three, put in claims
to a jaunty perennial form of youthfulness,
which the elder at forty-five had long left
behind him. Lambert was a gay, scarcely
sobered down Benedict, after eight years' experience
of the character. Mat only two years
older, hale and active in his prime, was reckoned

by himself and by others who took him at his
own reckoning as a confirmed rustic student
and bachelor, fairly buried among his fields
and books.

The marriage of Lambert Crabtree to Susie
Prior had forged a strong link between Mat
Crabtree and the Priors in spite of various
obstacles. In the first place, Lambert was by
no means a popular son and brother-in-law.
In the second, the brothers did not see much
of each other, and, notwithstanding the caricatured
likeness between them, had grown to
differ more widely than they agreed. In the
third, Haybridge was farther from Eedcot than
Newton was, and there had not been the
apology of actual relationship for compelling
intercourse between the families, which Susie
and her children supplied.

Still, by dint of natural affinity, Mat Grab-tree
had been in the habit till lately of coming
more frequently and familiarly to the Priors
than his brother* had ever done, save during

the short period of his courtship. But since
Bennet Gray's stay at Eeclcot, Mr. Crabtree of
Hay bridge had been so keenly alive to the
barrier erected by Lambert Crabtree's behaviour
with regard to the minerals on Ladslove,
that he had refrained from intruding under
John Prior's roof. As time wore on, however,
and Lambert continued foiled, Mat became
glad of an excuse to overleap the barrier.
He had been on his way with an errand to
Eedcot, when, having occasion to call at Kern
Rectory in passing, he was told by Mr.
Haynes that Miss Prior and the young lady who
was governess to the little Woods were at that
moment in the collier lads' class-room.

Why, what are they doing there ? ' the
visitor asked. ' Let us have a look,' was the
next idea. ' It will save me the trouble of
going on to Eedcot if Miss Prior will take my
message.'

Then the two gentlemen presented themselves
in time to see the ladies preparing to

start Had Mr. Haynes and his companion
come earlier, no doubt Jane would have
limited her recognition of their presence to a
grave salutation, and would have gone on
steadily, though it might be a little stiffly,
with what she was saying, calling on Miss
Gray to follow suit. And Bennet might have
complied after a struggle, for she held herself
as under orders ; but though she ought to
have been the more hardened of the two
to the ordeal, she was glad to be spared
it.

It is bad enough to go off the lines to the
boys,' she thought, doing her thinking, as will
be readily observed, in a scandalously slangy
manner, ' but it would have been terrible to
have had my " Outlines of Animal Physiology "
gauged by a stranger who may be an inspector
of schools, though I believe he is Mr. Crabtree,
of Haybridge, a university man and a scholar,
which is not much better.'

So Miss Gray listened with pleasure to the

clatter of the heavy boots of the pupils as they
dismissed themselves.

In the meantime Mat Crab tree was shaking
hands with Jane Prior, and telling her pleasantly,
' I am glad to see you so well employed,
Jane, giving what you have received.' At that
moment a twinkle came into his clear blue eyes
nearer the sky in colour than the steel tint
of Jane's eyes allowed hers to be. ' What is
it you are imparting to the young colliers ? ' he
inquired. ' You are not boldly cutting to the
bone at once, and introducing their inquiring
spirits into the very heart of mysteries ? It is
not Hegel ? '

No,' said Jane, ' but I'll not tell you. I
know you think I am as incapable of comprehending
the simplest system of philosophy
as the most ignorant lad among them.'

I never said so, and the gratuitous remark
is the more unkind, since I was just going to
ask you why you sent back the last parcel
of books without naming any more you

wanted, so that I did not know whether it
ought to be Berkeley, or Spinoza, or Spencer.'

Thanks,' said Jane, a little mollified ; ' I'll
write when I wish more ; but, in the meantime,
I am trying to master a little political
economy. Of course, I went through Adam
Smith and Bentham before, and now I am
busy with Ricardo and Mill.'

I wish you joy ; indeed I do. Why should
you doubt me. You like close reasoning, and
if it is sometimes in a circle, and proves nothing
save to the man's own satisfaction, I suppose it
must be so, since man does not live by reasoning
alone. Are you going to take Carlyle and
Ruskin by way of antidote . '

Not just now,' said Jane, treating the
speech literally, and answering with reserve ;
I have a purpose in view. I am not reading
for mere amusement.'

I should think not, though you are capable
of it,' declared Mat Crabtree, with a marvelling
diverted laugh. ' But I say, Jane, will you save

your father and mother from being bothered
with my company so late? Besides, I ought
to be at home looking over some accounts 
my domestic against your political economy.
I was coming over to tell you that Susie and
the children are to spend Thursday at Hay-bridge.
You know they were prevented from
driving over at Christmas because Molly had
a cold, and there was a suspicious case of illness
at the offices which might have turned out
measles. But all that is set to rights and
there are a few crocuses in the garden and
lambs in the meadow by this time. Will
the whole of you, or any of you, do me the
favour of joining us, and making the day less
tiresome for Susie ? I think I can promise you
that my housekeeper's resources will be equal
to the occasion  at least, that you will not be
starved though you may have to put up with a
little roughness in a bachelor's quarters.'

You do not need to offer a pledge for the
hospitality of Haybridge,' said Jane, as to a

man who was wasting idly modest professions.
You are very kind, but I cannot speak for
my father and mother, or even for myself, in
accepting your invitation till I see them.'

Mat Crabtree was ready to grant this.
But you will mention the matter and send
me word. To tell the truth,' he admitted, ' I
do not depend upon Mr. and Mrs. Prior. It
is not Worth their while, especially at this
season. But I thought you might come and
meet - your sister and bring over the little
Woods to have a game with their cousins.
By the way,' in an undertone, 'is not that
their governess, the young lady who has come
to stay with you at Eedcot since I saw you
last? Will you introduce me? I shall be
delighted if you will bring her also.'

You can tell her so yourself,' said Jane,
turning round and moving a couple of yards
towards Bennet.

Mr. Crabtree, of Haybridge, wishes to be
introduced to you, Miss Gray.'

Bennet Gray smiled and bowed, and stood
unconscious and untroubled, waiting for something
to be said by Mr. Crabtree, as the next
step in making her acquaintance.

I'm glad to meet you. Miss Gray,' said
Mat Crabtree naturally and cordially ; then
he lifted his eyebrows with a slight involuntary
motion, and looked a little -just a little
confused. He was short-sighted, and could
not always trust the evidence of this eyes, but
on the other hand he was observant and
quick in recalling faces, which he seldom
forgot.

Mat Crabtree had a habit which was also
his brother's, and which Lambert traded upon 
of speaking out what came into his mind.
As Mat blinked for a second and looked again
at Bennet, he said, with some abruptness,
Have I not had the pleasure of seeing you
before, Miss Gray  once, indeed, more than
once, though we were not introduced, down
in Berkshire ? '

VOL. I. K

At the very first words of the question,
Bennet gave a startled glance back at the
questioner, and the tell-tale blood flew in
vivid crimson over her face ; then, as she
turned away her eyes, the blood ebbed, and
she grew very pale in marked contrast to her
usually bright colour. 'The pleasure was
not mutual,' she said, with some hesitation ;'
I never saw you before, either in Berkshire
or anywhere else.'

No .P ' he exclaimed, in the next thing
to blunt incredulity. ' But you have been in
Berkshire ? You are the Berkshire Miss Gray ?
Your face and figure are not so common 
pardon me  as to mislead anybody. I almost
think I could stake my life that you are the
young lady who was pointed out to me in
the cricket field at Harleigh, whom I afterwards
saw at church sitting opposite me during
the service ; though I never spoke to her,' he
protested smiling. He was thrown off his
guard by the puzzle of the situation. He

was rendered blind to the embarrassment lie
was causing by the excitement of a man who
Is not accustomed to be found wrong on one
point, who is spurred on to vindicate to himself
the correctness of his powers of observation.


If Miss Gray's is not a common face, Gray
is a common name,' interposed Jane, drawn
out of herself by noticing the vexation increasing
to distress on her friend's part, occasioned
by Mat Crabtree's odd insistance. Jane did
not in the least understand it. As a rule she
was careless of such contretemps in society.
But when her attention was arrested, as in
the present case, her esprit de corps and her
friendship were alike up in arms. What
earthly right had one person to dispute
another's identity ? What conceivable excuse
could a man urge for questioning and contradicting
a woman on a point which she
must know best ? It was too unreasonable
and absurd. She had thought Mat Crab tree

had sense and taste, that he was not like his
brother except in externals. She was disappointed
in him. She would not have Miss
Gray put out  though it was hard to say
why she should be put out by such utter
nonsense.

Yes,' Bennet was saying in rather a low
tone, exhibiting to the full the awkwardness
which a person naturally straightforward is apt
to betray when he or she is driven into a corner,
and is about to be guilty of an equivocation.
She had failed to reply to the appeal as to
whether she had not been in Berkshire, and
the rest of her reply was thoroughly ambiguous.
There may be many Miss Grays even in Berkshire.'


Well, I cannot make it out,' asserted Mr.
Crabtree, in reference to a matter which he had
no business to make out, which, if he had not
been an honourable, unsuspicious gentleman in
the middle of his husbandry and philosophy,
he might have dropped as if it had been a

serpent or a live coal, on the first hint.
Then you were not the niece to Josh Gray,
of Chancery Lane ? '

I had no uncle Josh Gray,' said Bennet,
as stiffly and laconically as if her tongue was
frozen.

I am sorry to hear it,' declared the incorrigible
inquisitor. ' It would have been a very
good thing for you if you had. That Miss
Gray, Josh Gray's niece, must have come
into '

He was stopped by Bennet Gray's calling as
if in an extremity of apprehension  'Oh, Mr.
Haynes, icill you kindly shut the door ? The
draught is dreadful.'

I hope you have not caught cold next, Miss
Gray,' said Mr. Haynes with a shade of irritability
in his voice as he turned from a book
kept to show the average attendance of the
class, which he had been carefully examining.
He hated to hear people cough, especially when
they were his curates or teachers or Bible

women. It was a sign of impending trouble,
and it always sounded like a reproach to himself.
Mrs. Crabtree might have coughed as
much as she chose ; she was accountable to
none save her husband. But the rector's subordinates
were answerable to him, while he, in
his turn, was answerable for them. 'Young
ladies are so careless about draughts, and wraps,
and ordinary precautions against illness,' he
said aloud, quite plaintively.

You should not condemn us wholesale, Mr.
Haynes,' Jane felt bound to remonstrate, holding
up a fur cape of her own, and a shawl of
Miss Gray's. ' You see these, and you hear
Miss Gray is guarding herself against a draught.
We must go home presently, when Mr. Crabtree
has finished his investigation into Miss Gray's
pedigree and history,' Jane said ironically,
dealing what ought to have been a withering
rebuke to the offender, and by no means intending
to deal another blow at her friend.

I am afraid I have been very rude,' said

Mat Crabtree, laughing as at an excellent joke,
with the coolness of innocence not impudence.
But the likeness is amazing, if there is no
foundation for it,' he returned to the charge.
He was incapable of taking advantage of Miss
Gray's age, sex, and social standing, as Lambert
would have done without scruple. He, Mat
Crabtree, was not influenced by the accident,
that he happened to be Crabtree of Haybridge
who was conferring an honour in speaking in a
friendly fashion to a stranger  a young woman,
the governess to John Prior's grandchildren.
The speaker did not consider himself a man
who might take liberties and commit retires in
such circumstances with impunity. But he wa
tempted to over-estimate the privileges of his
forty-five years when he had to do with Jane
Prior and her friends and contemporaries-young
women  state it in a general way, young
enough to be his daughters.

I think there must be some degree of relationship,'
Mat Crabtree hammered on at his

speculation, with the amazing amount of obtuseness
which clever, kindly people sometimes
display. ' Pray, are you a Londoner, Miss
Gray? Can you tell me where your family
hailed from originally? Were they north or
south country Grays ? Like most old fogies, I
am a dabbler in genealogies.'

Bennet Gray stood at bay.

Then I daresay you will hardly be able to
believe me, Mr. Crabtree,' she said a little
haughtily, but with the ring of truth in her
voice, ' when I own that I cannot tell you much.
My father was an attorney in London  though
he had not a brother called Josh,' she allowed
herself to digress, with a faint smile, a falter of
her tongue, and a rising blush ;' so I am a
Londoner born, but both my father and mother
died young, and I was brought up by my
mother's relations, who were not Grays, but
Shrubsoles.'

Now, that is a Berkshire name,' cried Mat
Crabtree, with the utmost alertness, ' I am not

sure that there are not Shrubsoles at Coldblow,
near Harleigh.'

You are wrong there, Mr. Crabtree.' She
was goaded into the impulsive contradiction.
Then she stopped short. How should she know
that he was wrong ? She had not so much as
admitted that she had ever been in Berkshire
or at Harleigh. It was all a miserable tissue of
prevarication and self-contradiction. What could
this Mr. Crabtree think of her ? He was making
himself, without any evil intention, probably, a
thousand times more detestable than his brother.
He would work her a world more harm ; while
she had been thinking that she would like him,
and they might become friends. How did it
strike Jane and Mr. Haynes ? Bennet dared
not look up at them, or seek to know. Was
exposure to come in this way  the worst way
possible  and quite prematurely, when everything
had been going on so favourably ?

There was no more of the discussion. It
was broken off, without any solution of the

riddle, by Jane's leading the way out to the
phaeton. Mat Crabtree would not be hindered
from wrapping up the girls and handing them
to their seats, by the trifling objection that he
was in bad odour with both of the women. He
said his good-byes cheerfully, and with what
sounded a positively malicious heaping up of
insult on injury. He called after them, 'I hope
to see you both at Haybridge on Thursday,
when we shall have plenty of time to follow the
ramifications of the Grays, and to settle the
connection between Miss Gray, here, and the
other  the Berkshire Miss Gray. Depend upon
i% there is something in it.'

I never knew Mr. Crabtree so provoking
and tiresome before,' Jane apologised and complained
in one discontented breath, as the
couple drove off. ' What could possess him that
he should torment you about Berkshire and
this other Miss Gray whom he seems to have
got on his brain ? Did you ever happen to be
in Berkshire V

'Yes,' Miss Gray was forced to answer
faintly ; then she added more steadily, ' but
certainly I did not see Mr. Crabtree there.'

Then, what does it all mean ? ' inquired
Jane in her bewilderment.

I don't know,' answered a weary, heartsick
voice. ' I have got such a headache, will
you excuse me, Miss Prior ? '

Father than have passed through the ordeal
to which she had been subjected, Bennet Gray
would have preferred a thousand times to have
encountered, in her capacity of teacher, every
school inspector in England, and to have been
detected by each putting all the towns of her
native land into wrong counties, and making
the blood which was coursing in her veins stand
as still as water in a stagnant pool.

CHAPTEE XIII.

AN APPEAL TO A MAN'S HONOUR.

Jane Prior was as unsuspicious as Mat Crab-tree
was fit to be. Like all busy women whose
lives are not engrossed by the merest trifles oi
social intercourse, she had not time for prying,
or even for collecting evidence with regard to
humanity and sifting it for her mental satisfaction.
This lack of leisure, with a certain constitutional
abstraction of mind, impaired her
power of sympathy, but it rendered her in
another sense easy to live with, and gave her
the appearance of larger toleration than she
actually possessed. But there are incidents
which rouse the most unwary and the most
charitable. Something is said or done by the

member of a circle totally different from what
might have been expected, unaccountable,
except in one light. It points so plainly 
however reluctant those who run may be to
read the sign  to a course of deception and to
a secret probably not too creditable to the
person it concerns, that the disturbed witnesses
would be more than blind dolts if they refused
to believe the evidence of their senses and their
reason.

Miss Gray had looked and spoken  or
rather had not spoken  so strangely, had been
so unlike an open, upright woman who has
nothing to conceal, and had grown so agitated
under Mr. Crabtree's mal-apropos cross-queer
turning in the Kershaw class-room, that a
distinctly uncomfortable impression had been
made on those present. The exception had
been Mr. Haynes, who had not been attending
part of the time, whose mind, long accustomed
to run in one meritorious groove, seldom ranged
beyond sermon-writing and parish work, and

who had coined a word for the benefit of young
ladies, that word being ' various.'

But already Mat Crabtree, who had been
full of his own idea, and noticed little at the
moment, on thinking the matter over in his
house at Hay bridge, was taking himself severely
to task, and telling himself he had been an
inquisitive, inconsiderate old idiot, who had
put his foot into it, and made a fine mess.
Something was out of joint, though he could
not pretend to say what. He did not believe
he had been mistaken in his recognition of Miss
Gray. The fine face was not only remarkable
for its bloom of womanly beauty, there were
too many points of resemblance to make error
probable. Why she should be the governess
at Eedcot under a cloud, as it appeared, he
could not conjecture. Nobody might be much
to blame, or the wrong-doer might be sorry for
the past and striving to retrieve it. And there
had he gone, like an intolerable meddler and
hunter after game, prowling and scenting and

raising a timid persecuted creature for oucrht
that he knew. The mischief he lead done
might be irreparable and far-reaching. Serve
him right for his stupid folly  a man of his
age ! And his prey was worthy of him  a girl,
an orphan by her own account, no older than
Jane Prior  a girl out in the world, though it
might be by her own choice or fault and not of
necessity, making her way for herself, and so
practically defenceless  a girl seemingly full of
gifts and attractions, while he had contrived to
affront and disgrace her.

At Eedcot Jane Prior was struggling ineffectually
to put the whole scene out of her
mind. She was the more perplexed and
worried because she was so unaccustomed to
the process  the doubt in the first place, the
effort to shake off the doubt in the second. She
was furious with herself for thinking anything
could be wrong where Miss Gray was in question.
Of course, she might have often gone to
Berkshire if she thought fit to do so, and Mr.

Crabtree might or might not have seen her
there, and might have elected to call her ' The
Berkshire Miss Gray though she was, in point
of fact, a Londoner. Or he might, as was more
likely, be entirely wrong, confusing her with
some namesake of hers, whom he fancied she
resembled, of whom and of whose relatives she
knew nothing. What did it matter? Who
need care? Yet Miss Gray, for some occult
reason known only to herself, had cared, and
cared very much. Jane could not deny it to
herself. What of that again? Some people
were so much more sensitive than others. Miss
Gray had not looked like one of these thin-skinned
folk, but most of us have  say one
vulnerable spot in our armour. Miss Gray
mioht have poor relations in Berkshire, or she
mio-ht be so unfortunate as to own kindred who
were worse than poor  disreputable. Jane
believed stoutly that if she had poor relations
or disreputable kindred she would own the one
and disown the other with the stern intrepidity

of a Brutus, still she could forgive Miss Gray if
her pride was more foolish, or her self-respect
less vigorous.

But do as Jane would  candid, confiding
soul as she was  with all her panoply of philosophy
and learning, she could not get rid of
the conviction that there had been something
personal at the root of Miss Gray's distress 
that her trouble, if she had a trouble, was an
individual affair. In opposition to Jane's lofty
principles, and strong prepossessions  in spite
of her reverence for knowledge in any shape,
and the common cause she was disposed to
make with every woman intellectually engaged
against Jane's very will, she began to look on
Miss Gray with other eyes, to see her in a
different light, to watch and make a record of
all the small particulars of her behaviour, and
give them a new meaning. Jane hated herself,
but she could not help what she was doing.

The first thing which struck Jane Prior
was that Miss Gray did not wish to go with
VOL. T. s

the children to Haybridge, as it lead been
arranged they should go. Miss Gray had
not hitherto shown any disinclination to encounter
visitors or pay visits. For Jane had
been wonderfully wide-awake on one social
point. She had taken pains to show the public
how she regarded Miss Gray, and how she
desired it to regard her ; and as Mrs. Prior was
of the same mind as her daughter in the matter,
the public had responded civilly, as it generally
will in such a case. Miss Gray had paid
occasional visits with Jane, and more rarely
with Mrs. Prior. Miss Gray had helped the
family to receive visitors at home, and she had
been treated by others as the Priors treated her
as it would have been an offence to them, if,
when so doing, their neighbours had done
otherwise  like any other young lady, not a
governess, living at Eedcot. The exception
had been with the Lambert Crab tree's. Free
and easy as his manner was, caressing and
bland as hers never failed to be, with her profuse

general invitations, her ready offers of
things which were not wanted, and her ' dear
Miss Gray's,' husband and wife, in their quite
different Hues, were neither of them by any
means free from the vulgar vice of affability.
And in their very carelessness the couple always
indicated a line of demarcation, and showed
that to them, though they might hail her
familiarly or propose to pet her, as their
varying humours moved them. Miss Gray was,
after all, the governess at Eedcot, no more and
no less.

Miss Gray had grown up under the new
light cast on those who rear the future women
of England, but it might be that she had not
always found the light set on a candlestick and
not hid in a bushel, or else there was something
in her relations to the Priors which stirred
her to grateful affection. She had till now
welcomed the occasional visiting in the happy,
cordial spirit with which any other perfectly
natural, well-balanced young woman more than

s2

content to work will keenly relish a little play.
She had displayed the same lively interest in
the Eedcot neighbours, the same intuitive perception
of their characters and histories that
she had evinced with regard to the place itself
and its surroundings. This sympathetic identification
of herself with the Priors in reference
to their home and their friends had been one of
Bennet Gray's crowning graces, especially in
the eyes of Mrs. Prior, who, though retiring in
her habits, was very friendly in her nature.
But the identification broke down inexplicable
when the invitation to Haybridge came on the
talis.

It was clear to any observer whose eyes
were opened that Miss Gray's instant instinct
was to shrink from going to Mr. Crabtree's,
and that she was ready to urge any plea which
might obviate the necessity. In ordinary circumstances
an excuse on the ground of health
would have been too glaringly preposterous.
Bennet Gray, in spite of her studies, was like

the most illiterate of hunting, shooting, fishing,
racing, flirting-in-the-open-air, ,
dancing-till-break-of-day women. She
was, like Miss Austen's ' Emma,' or a milkmaid,
the picture of health.' Bennet Gray was a
glowing, rosy, loving-exercise, laughing-fatigue
girl. An apology which would have
been usually so broad a contradiction must
have struck herself in that light, and shamed
her ingenuity in this direction. Yet she had
been so unlike herself, ill at ease and nervous
since that encounter in the Kershaw class-room,
that she might even have posed as an invalid
without imposing too great a strain on the
credulity of her audience.

But Bennet had not the courage, though
she stuck to as piteously transparent ruses.
She would be one too many in the phaeton 
her presence must incommode Miss Prior.
The Httle Woods would be happier away from
her  Miss Gray  for a day. At least if they
had grown so accustomed to her that her being

there had ceased to be a restraint, their cousins,
the small Crabtrees, woidd wish for her absence.
Her company could not fail to be an intrusion
when Mr. Crabtree had particularly invited
Miss Prior to meet her sister, and the party
was to be a family party. Mrs. Prior would
be lonely left all day by herself, when Mr.
Prior had so many engagements. At last the
ominously numerous excuses resolved themselves
into the desperate assertion that she 
Bennet Gray  had nothing suitable to wear.

There was only one response. Jane maintained
inflexibly that she would not be
incommoded ; on the contrary, there was
plenty of room for Miss Gray in the phaeton.
Tom or Sam could go on the box with the
driver, the child would like nothing better,
and the two other children could sit together
perfectly well on the back seat. She would
like Miss Gray's company, of course, if she did
not object to go on any other account  and
here, to Jane's dismay, her own voice took a

perceptibly distant, aggrieved tone before she
knew or could help it. She hastened to add
that she would be glad of Miss Gray to help
her with the children. She had nothing to say
to Mrs. Crabtree which all the world might
not hear. Mr. Crabtree's invitation to Miss
Gray was sufficient proof that the party was
not limited to near relatives or family connections.


The children cried clamorously that Miss
Gray must go and see Mr. Prabtree's lambs
and calves. Haybridge was far better than the
Bank House, and they liked Mr. Crabtree ever
so much more than they liked Uncle Lambert.
Mr. Crabtree never plagued them, or if he did
he made up for it by showing them things
which they liked to see, and letting them do
what they pleased, so long as the little boys
were not rough to their sister, or did not
quarrel, or trouble Aunt Jane. Aunt Susie
would be there, and though she did not take
much notice of them, when she did it was to

praise them, to forbid their being contradicted,
and to give them all the good things on the
table. Aunt Susie was so pretty, and had such
beautiful clothes, that Ally constantly got ideas
for Anna Maria Constance's wardrobe from her
aunt's toilet. Molly and Piers liked Mr.
Crabtree and Haybridge also, and were not
half so wild and given to wanting everything
their own way as when they were at home.

Chubby Sam went so far as to say Hay-bridge
would not be worth while without Miss
Gray ; and perhaps he and she might go in
search of peacocks' feathers instead of turkeys'
feathers, like Tom's, for Mr. Crabtree kept peacocks.
Or the couple might be so fortunate
as to find the thrashing-mill going, for Mr.
Crabtree's mill did not stand always like their
old thing, then he and she might stand and
watch the corn running through.

If Miss Gray did not yield to these allurements,
the obstacle was not to be found in
Mrs. Prior. She held to it with smiling

determination that nothing warranted her in
keeping Miss Gray from making acquaintance
with Haybridge. Mrs. Prior was partial
enough to think that Miss Gray would not
like it so well as Eedcot. Still, almost every
country place had its advantages; Haybridge
was not without them ; while Mr. Crabtree
was a kind host as well as an excellent man.
She herself had often enjoyed going over there,
and her familiarity with the spot would render
her the better able to appreciate what she
hoped Miss Gray would tell her of first
impressions. In the interval she would do
very well with the quilt she had in hand,
her book, and Tommy. * Oh, fie ! Tommy,
to yawn at the prospect.' In fact, Tommy did
more than yawn as an appropriate commentary
on his mistress's speech, and a symbol of the
drowsy day in store for him, he proceeded to
transform himself into an inverted curtailed
four-post bed  lying on his broad back, withall
his thick legs in the air. The performance

caused great gratification to the children, who
were alternately Tommy's delight and his
torment.

Then Mrs. Prior went out of her way, as it
sounded to Bennet, to range herself on the
side of the enemy, and gratuitously give an
opinion which would have been agreeable to
hear at any other time. Miss Gray need not
trouble about dress ; she always looked nice.
That serge she was wearing would do capitally,
if she did not grudge it, for sauntering about
the fields and garden, being pulled about by
the children, and sharing their dinner and high
tea.

It was within a day of Thursday's visit
that Bennet's last defence was thus placidly
bowled over. And it was on the Wednesday
afternoon that Jane Prior, going into the
schoolroom, found Miss Gray so busy writing a
letter that she was standing in her bonnet and
jacket at the desk with her pen flying over the
page. In the meantime Tom and Sam were

building houses with a pile of lesson books,
and Ally was dressing a reluctant kitten in
some of Anna Maria Constance's cast-off finery.

'I am afraid you are too late with your
letter, Miss Gray,' said Jane, on the impulse of
the moment, ' the post-bag left ten minutes
ago.'

Thanks for telling me,' answered Bennet,
not looking up, and hastily scribbling her
signature, 'but I mean to walk across to the
post-office, and the children are coming with
me. Eun away, Ally, with Tom and Sam to
Nurse, and get your hats and coats, or I shall
not be able to wait for you.'

There was a little post-office at a toll-bar
about a mile from Eedcot, but the Priors'
letters rarely went there ; they were sent
direct to JSTewton. The walk to the post-office
was not a favourite one. It was along a rough
by-road full of miry ruts in early spring,
within thin straggling hedgerows, dividing
poor fields that had not been long brought in

from a corner of Kershaw Moor. The landscape
would present a dreary outlook under
the watery sinking sun, which conveyed little
or no warmth so late in the afternoon. The
celandines and daisies which had been budding
and bursting open in the morning would be
either closed tightly again, or presenting a
frost-bitten, pinched look to the approaching
raw chill of the evening.

Miss Gray was allowing herself scanty time
to reach Cross-trees Post-Office and get back
with the children before dusk. Hardly a
moment after the thought had crossed Jane's
mind, she saw from the staircase window,
which she was passing in order to go up to
her room, Bennet Gray and the children
going down the avenue, posting as for a
wager, or on an errand of life and death, to
traverse the unattractive road to and from
Cross-trees.

Jane Prior was not a martinet  a finicking
intermeddler with those under her supervision.

But she could not help asking herself where
was the need of this hurry to the post-office
at an ungenial hour by an unattractive road?
Why could Miss Gray not send her letters,
like other people, in the post-bag, which would
carry them, without trouble on her part,
to Newton ? If her letter was not written intime,
what important correspondence had she
in which the delay of a single post was of
vital consequence ?

Jane told herself she had no business to
ask this even of herself ; it was no concern of
hers. It was mean of her to speculate in this
manner.

Still the knowledge remained that Jane was
aware Miss Gray had no near relations. No
doubt many women in her position seek to
indemnify themselves for the absence of close
domestic ties by a kind of artificial circle of
complaisant acquaintances, with whom the
solitary woman is ready to correspond on any
or no pretext, deluding herself into the belief

that she has as many friends as other women
possess. But Miss Gray was not one of these
women of many facile, spurious friendships,
always in a state of active effervescence on
paper. She had not found time in the course
of her busy life to do more than make a few
strong, lasting friendships. These were mostly
among young women like herself, earning an
honest, honourable independence, as Mat Crab-tree
had put it, making their way in the world.
Or else the correspondents were the parents
and guardians of these young women, who
took a cordial, reflected interest in her. To
them she was content, as she had told Jane, to
write at the rate of once a month, or once
in the three months, according to the degrees
of intimacy.

Jane fought against such idle, unworthy
suspicions, which had been making her unhappy
of late ; when in an inconceivably short time,
as it seemed, little Alice Wood tapped at her
aunt's room door to tell her the walking party

were back. They had come in to grandmamma's
afternoon tea.

Have you run the whole way, Ally ? '
Jane was driven to inquire.

No, Aunt Jane, we only walked very fast
not to be benighted. Miss Gray carried Sam
over the rough bits. It was rather fun to
make such haste. But Sam was very naughty.
1 don't know that he quite deserves to go to
Haybridge tomorrow,' announced the little girl,
who was disposed to be a strict disciplinarian
to her younger brothers. ' Do you know what
he did ? He had asked Miss Gray to let him
put his hands into her muff, and when we were
near the post-office he pulled out her letter and
ran away with it, to put it into the slit, though
it takes me to get up to the slit. Aunt Jane.
Miss Gray was very angry, and frightened for
her letter. I am sure if she had caught him
she would have boxed his ears. But she
started so quickly after him that she slipped in
the mud. She might have broken her leg, you

know, but she only dirtied her dress ; and Samlet
fall the letter, so it was in the dirt, and all
in a mess too. The woman at the post-office
came out of her house and picked up the letter
before Miss Gray could reach it. And the
woman said to Sam, ' Little master, you never
oughtn't to play such tricks with letters." So
she looked at the outside of this one to see if
the postman could read what was on it, after
she had wiped off the dirt. Then she said it
was all right, only no thanks to Sam ; and she
asked him what Mr. Crabtree, of Haybridge,
would have done to him if he had not got his
letter? I think Miss Gray had been writing
to Mr. Crabtree to say we are all coming
tomorrow  don't you?  though she did not
tell me or ask if we had any message. Stow,
was it not naughty of Sam, Aunt Jane? '

Yes, Ally ; but you are naughty too to telltales
on Sam, and chatter so much,' cried Jane.
Go away and ask Miss Gray to pour out tea
for granny. I am not coming down.'

Jane could not face Miss Gray at once. She
could not digest what she had heard in a moment.
She must think it over, though the
matter had come to her ears in an irregular
manner, and as it was not bound to do, thanks
to Ally.

Miss Gray writing to Mr. Crabtree ! What
could cause her to do such a thing ? The child
might be somehow mistaken, or the old woman
might have misread the address. But that was
unlikely, and if it had been so, surely Miss Gray,
knowing that little pitchers have ears, would
have corrected the mistake, and Ally, so ready
with her tongue, would have repeated the correction,
along with what had gone before it.
No ; there is such a thing as taking probabilities
into account, and a logical mind can hardly
avoid doing so.

Miss Gray had not written to Mr. Crabtree
to say that though she had done her best not
to accept his invitation she was to be at Hay-bridge
with the others after all. Miss Gray,

VOL. I. T

according to her own statement, had only seen
Mr. Crabtree once in her life, and even if he
was right and they had met before in Berkshire,
they had not been introduced or spoken
to each other  of that Jane was absolutely
certain, she could never doubt Mat Crabtree's
perfect honesty. Did Miss Gray write to him
before their next encounter to ask his forbearance
 to beg him to refrain from the embarrassing
discussion of north-country and south-country
Grays, and from investigating further as he had
seemed bent on doing the extraordinary case of
resemblance which had come to light ? Washer
letter an appeal to his honour to preserve
silence on such of her antecedents as she did
not choose to make public ? Strange as it
sounded it looked alarmingly like it. Again,
if this were so, why did Miss Gray select Mr.
Crabtree for her confidant ? Would it not have
been franker, more womanly, more worthy of
her in every way, if she had trusted her  Jane
who had been so willing to receive Miss Gray

as a friend, and either told her all there was to
tell, or else bidden Jane have faith in her
friend ? Jane knew in that case she would not
have failed in faith, however it might have been
tried ; and then Miss Gray might have commissioned
Jane to bespeak Mr. Crab tree's consideration
and good feeling to refer no more to what
had impressed him ; which he was not to
mention.

Jane Prior felt wounded in the sisterly regard
she had prized so highly. She was
miserably uncomfortable in her straightforward
character, with regard to the amount of secrecy
and stratagem which she was forced to admit
had come unexpectedly under her eyes. She
could not help an undefined apprehension of
some unheard-of painful result, when this
mystery and manoeuvring, so hateful and sickening
to Jane, were in their cause and effect
more completely exposed.

CHAPTEE XIV.

FALSE LIGHTS.

Miss Gray, in her unconsciousness of any
fresh betrayal through the children's chatter,
seemed so relieved by what she had done that
Jane was tempted to doubt all that had gone
before it, and think she had been the victim of
her imagination.

The spring day was one of those exceptionally
fine ones of which the English climate can
sometimes boast. The party started, to all
appearance, in excellent spirits, and the drive
was not long enough to weary the children.

Haybridge was a large, square, comparatively
modern white house, which, with its superabundance
of green railings and pleadings,

its chain of ponds, that included a hand-bridge
and a boathouse like an old-fashioned summerhouse,
might almost have been modelled on a
Flemish or a German country house. The best
that could be said for the house was that it
looked roomy, comfortable, and cheerful. It
stood in a small park with the by no means
extensive ground prettily broken. Other gains
consisted of a hill, which rose behind the house,
and was for a large part of the year dotted with
Mr. Crabtree's sheep. There were also meadows
which stretched in front down to a trout stream
stealing along beneath a fringe of osiers. These
meadows formed, in summer, pasture-ground
for Mr. Crabtree's cattle. They were acknowledged
to be the finest, far and near, and as
they browsed they helped rather than hindered
the general repose of the scene.

Mr. Crabtree awaited-his guests at one of
the green gates. He was a tall, broad figure,
easy and authoritative-looking as he stood therein
his rough tweeds, with his air of mature

mastership of all about him, and his handsome,
vigorous face equally mature and somewhat
masterful too, lit up with good-humoured hospitality.
The whole man was in entire keeping
with his surroundings. He lifted out the children
and exchanged words with them. He
shook hands with the young ladies, and thanked
them heartily for their company. ' This is very
good of you, Jane ; I am much obliged to you
for coming and making it livelier for Susie.'

His next sentence was addressed to Miss
Gray. Did it contain any double entendre ?

That is right of you, Miss Array, to come
and see what Haybridge is like.' He praised
her lightly. ' We must try and make the place
show itself in its best colours to a strange lady,
mustn't we, Sam ? But we hope she will be
better acquainted with it and us, so we must
not let any objectionable nonsense slip out.'

Was there more meant than met the ear ?
Jane could not tell. Mr. Crabtree spoke in a half-jesting
tone, but he did not laugh. His gaiety

was not without the grave kindness and marked
respect which she could imagine him man and
gentleman enough to show to a woman whom
he was called upon to re-assure, whose fears he
sought to lay to rest. But, when it came to
that, Mat Crabtree was tolerably sure to be
studiously considerate in his very friendliness to
any woman whom a large proportion of the
world would judge socially his inferior, because
of her lack of the world's goods and her independence
in working for her bread.

Withal there was something contradictory
in Mat Crabtree's look and manner. Jane
fancied she caught amidst the serious courtesy
and interest of his voice and face, a twinkle
of the blue eyes, as if they said in spite of
him, ' I recognise the comicality of the situation.'


Miss Gray blushed vividly, and it might be
she hung her head a little. But Bennet Gray
had *a trick of blushing, and the hanging her
head, if she did hang it, was so slight and momentary

that the meditation could not be counted
on any more than the bkish. Indeed, Jane was
not certain that there was not a fleeting response,
a twinkle in the hazel eyes, in accordance with
the twinkle in the blue, as Bennet looked up
the next instant. She appeared happy and at
her ease afterwards, allowing the children to
drag her here and there, and point out some of
the wonderful things which were to be seen at
Haybridge.

Susie and her babies, as she persisted in
calling them, though the little boy and girl
were as old as Tom and Sam Wood, had arrived
beforehand. Susie was already presiding in
her brother-in-law's house, graciously ordering
and patronising everybody and everything to a
greater extent, perhaps, than Mat Crabtree
altogether approved. Lambert Crabtree had
not come with his wife, an omission which
nobody, not even Susie, pretended to regret.
Whatever his presence might be on other festival
occasions, it was certainly not desirable at a

family party where women and children predominated.


There was an immense deal to do, and a
limited time to do it in. There was first luncheon
 brown soup and chicken pie, and the
junket for which Hay bridge was famous, with
special dainties of cakes and fruit for the
children. It was served in the big square diningroom,
containing pictures of the master of the
house's father and mother, and of himself and
his brother when they were round-faced, round-eyed
boys like Tom and Sam. That room
seemed to have been made for twelve people
dining in it all the year round ; but Mat
Crabtree, as he presided over the luncheon, did
not look as if he would ever sing small or feel
forlorn when he was eating his meals there
alone.'

The children resumed their hats and coats,
for the visitors had to be taken up to the hill to
see the lambs, away to the offices to inspect the
calves, over to the ponds to count the goslings

and ducklings, with a detour to the poultry-yard
to find the earliest turkeys' eggs to carry
home to granny. The round implied an
amount of fatigue, which was trying for little
legs, though Mr. Crabtree carried one and
sometimes a couple of the Eedcot or the Newton
children on his shoulders the most of the
way. At last the children were installed in the
half empty, disused drawing-room, where there
was nothing to spoil. It was understood that
little people can only rest by romping in
another form, as horses can only rest standing,
so bricks, marbles, and balls, a cat and her
kittens were thoughtfully provided for the
guests. Miss Gray offered to stay and be play-mistress,
and Susie, amidst profuse thanks,
managed to convey softly that the part was one
side of Bennet's calling for life. ' You are so
fond of children, dear Miss Gray, and they are
so fond of you, that you ought never to be
separated. I quite envy your delightful way
with the babies.'

The real state of the case was that Susie
troubled herself very little with the two big,
red, hight-eyed, boisterous bantlings that were
so like their father. She seldom contradicted
them, for she craved their homage, as she did
that of every living creature. But when they
would have been in her way as might have
happened often, particularly since they were
not ornamental, she sent them from her without
a pang. She sweetly entrusted them to their
nurse, or to Susie's French maid, or to any
other constrained or complacent person who
would take the children off their mother's
hands. There was not much harm in the poor
little things as yet, only they were not engaging.
Mat Crabtree's heart occasionally ached
for them, he could hardly have told why. He
now enacted that they could play with their
Redcot cousins, and even if there did come a
collision, his housekeeper, who was somewhat
of a personage  elderly, stately, but not ungenial
 was prepared to settle all disputes, and

if the disputants were good, and got on her
right side, she might even tell them a story
when they were tired. Mr. Crab tree would
not, on any account, permit the sacrifice of
Miss Gray to her duties, against which Jane
Prior also protested.

'Children are all very. well,' he said peremptorily,
' but their elders are glad to get rid
of them sometimes ; eh, Jane ? We are all out
having holiday for the day, ain't we ? ' he asserted
cheerfully, ' and one of us shall not be
allowed to steal a march upon the others, and
slip her neck back into the sober yoke to which
our shoulders have grown accustomed, while
the rest toil at disporting themselves in a heavy,
ungainly fashion  all save my sister Susie hereto
whom play seems to come natural.'

Don't flatter, Mat,' protested Susie, languidly,
taking his exception as a compliment.

Miss Gray was at liberty, and she repaired
with the remainder of the grown-up people to
the garden. There was not much to be seen,

and Susie employed herself more with the
blossoming peach trees and their promise of
fruit  in view of the peaches, the principal
share of which was likely to find its way to
the Bank House, than with the small share of
ordinary spring flowers which occupied the
others.

The garden of Hay bridge was, like the
house, chiefly remarkable for answering the
end proposed. It had been sensibly laid out,
was productive even at this season, and left a
wholesome impression on the minds of the
visitors that nothing was neglected or forgotten.
From the sea-kail to the rhubarb, everything
was looked to properly. The newly-dug,
smoothly-raked beds, the young plants in the
frames, the very heaps of leaves and bundles of
sticks were there in a state of hopeful preparation.
There was only one small hot-house,
because Mr. Crabtree did not want many grapes,
and cared more for open-air native flowers than
for the exotics of a conservatory. But here.

too, the hyacinths and jonquils, heaths and
azaleas did credit both to Mr. Crabtree and ibis
gardener.

In the borders outside the amber-yellow
aconite was sharing its reign with the golden
and purple crocuses, which had been mentioned
as one of the inducements to the visit to Hay-bridge,
and with masses of blue, white, and
pink hepaticas, and tufts of brown and pink
garden heather.

The straw-coloured primroses and their
milk-white sisters were waiting for the next
moon before they were rife. The anemones
and polyanthuses only presented their aggressive
green sheaths. The wall-flowers held up
their heads, but displayed no more than the
iron-brown edges of the petals well shrouded
in the slaty calyxes. The commonest crimson,
lilac, and chocolate auricula merely existed
in the shape of tiny-crumpled balls like collections
of small green clenched fists powdered
with flour.

The most liberal plant was Sweet Alison,
which amicably spread out a few hundreds of
broad flat miniature white faces in prominent
patches. It represented those groups of commonplace,
easily-pleased smiling people that
diversify the more sombre ranks of society.
These hardy, homely people, not chary of their
favours, are little thought of except to be
despised, but they bring untold relief to what
without them would be the sensitive and oppressive
nature of human intercourse.

It was in the garden that the party fell into
pairs  Mrs. Crab tree walking with her sister,
and Mr. Crabtree accompanying Miss Gray,
whom he invited to turn down a side walk in
order to look at a singularly situated last year's
nest. Susie could not object to be left with
Jane for a few minutes, though the young
matron was wont to appropriate as her right
any man in the company, and was quite honest
in expressing her preference for male society.
She took advantage of her present deprivation

to link her arm in Jane's, looking a fragile little
creature beside her tall sister, and to deliver
her mind of a warning. ' My dear Janie,' said
Susie, in her most caressing way, ' there is no
doubt Miss Gray is a most charming person.
Even if I thought otherwise, which would be
difficult, I should hesitate to say so to you, since
you have elected her to be your particular
friend. But does it never strike you that she
forgets  just the least little bit ? '

'What?' demanded Jane, bluntly, ready to
boil over with wrath, and stopping short in
their walk.

Well, my love, in the first place, come
along. I am sure,' spoken most politically,
you do not choose that everybody should observe
we are at high words  at least you are.
I mean the accident of her position. No one
has more sympathy than I have with girls in
her sad circumstances.'

There is really no call for your sympathy.
I don't know anything sad in Miss Gray's circumstances.'

Jane boiled over at once. 'I
wish I had been as well grounded in my education
and could feel myself as thoroughly
equipped to be of some use in the world, and
to secure my own independence. Suppose my
father were not able to keep up Eedcot any
longer, and I saw it to be my duty to relieve
him from the burden of supporting me  now
that I am a grown woman ! Suppose I not only
felt such a course of conduct to be my duty,
but was able to put it in practice, and could
turn my education and whatever abilities I have
to good account, do you intend to say you or
anybody else would be justified in regarding
my circumstances as sad ? '

I don't know about the justification,' said
Mrs. Susie, shaking her lovely little head ; ' but
I'm afraid we'd do it, justified or not. It is the
verdict of the world, and, my dear child, there
must be something in that.'

As if there had never been such a thing as
stupid errors and cruel prejudices, taking whole
VOL. I. U

centuries to clear away,' protested Jane. * But
the world is getting wiser.'

It is quite wise enough for me,' said Susie,
coolly. ' Now, don't lose your temper, it is not
worth while. Besides, did I not begin by
saying Miss Gray is a charming person, quite
handsome in her own style, ladylike, and all
that which makes her the more dangerous ?
Yes, that is the right word, though you are so
dreadfully touchy that I am almost frightened
to use it. For girls in her position  you may
hold what extravagant notions you like about
it, you dear, high-flown, learned goose ! the
sharp-sighted world judges differently  have a
double motive for breaking away from their
disadvantages and establishing themselves creditably.'


Jane was silent for an instant at what
appeared to her the sheer insult of the words.

Do you mean me to think, Susie,' and she
gave a gasp to recover her composure, ' it
would be the opinion of you and people Uke

you, if that happened to which I have referred,
if my father, who is poor, as you must know
perfectly, were to get poorer, and I were to become
a schoolmistress, I should all at once grow
a dangerous person, eager to relinquish my
calling, and driven to scheme and plot for a
husband ? I shall be very glad to have mistaken
your meaning, but if that is not what you
are thinking, I cannot imagine what you intend
to convey.'

Oh, good heavens, Jane, don't let your
madness reach that pass ; don't suggest that
you may become a " school ma'am," ' cried Susie,
in half genuine, half mock horror.

Why not ? ' cried Jane, recovering her
self-command. ' I at least should be contented
with my lot, and should not strive to better it.
To be a " school ma'am," as you think fit to call
it, strikes me as a more honest and honourable
shift than to marry a man I could neither love
nor respect, simply that he might furnish me
with gowns and bonnets.' Jane was sorry the

u 2

moment she had said the bitter words. She
was sensitive on the point of her sister's marriage,
and she could not comprehend that Susie
might have no sensitiveness for herself.

Mrs. Crabtree turned aside the implication
very neatly. ' You forget there is another
alternative, that a woman may love and respect
a man who can give her gowns and bonnets.
The two conditions do not necessarily clash.
Indeed,' she went on with an airy laugh, ' I am
not sure that the last ought not to imply the
first. You would not have us wives ungrateful,'
would you? I know I am much obliged to
Lamb,' with a pretty little assumption of languishing
humility, ' for " sitting," as he says,
in that bank of his, in order that the babies and
I may be what you think disgustingly smart.
But we have lost sight of one consideration,'
and she posed her little figure more daintily as
she spoke. ' Even though you were to demean
yourself  excuse me, dear, for using the language
of rational people  and lose your social

standing by going out as a governess and earning
your living, you would still be, in this neighbourhood
at least, one of the Priors of Eedcot.'

And if Miss Gray's father had been a
beggar it would have been no fault of hers,'
insisted Jane. ' As it is, he was one of the
partners in a respectable firm of attorneys in
London,' she ended a little faintly. Her mind
had been unsettled lately with regard to Miss
Gray's antecedents, though the deceased
attorney had not been one of the disturbing
elements.

There are attorneys and attorneys,' said
Susie, with a wave of her little hand, very
much as Jane herself had said ' There are Grays
and Grays,' ' and London is a wide word ; but
though you may twit Lamb and me with keeping
a bank at Newton, the best attorney in
London who could not leave his daughter a
penny, by the way, is hardly a match for the
heads of old county families like the Crabtrees
and Priors.' She looked pointedly as she spoke

at Mat Crabtree appearing in the opposite walk,
talking and laughing with Miss Gray. 'Mind
my words, Jane, whether you like them or not
I am sure I do not often say things that
people do not like ; I hate to set people against
me '  this was uttered quite plaintively  ' but
I cannot bear to see you so wilfully blind without
doing what I can to put you on your
guard.'

Jane opened her lips to say, ' You may
spare yourself the trouble. I do not want
your warning, Susie, any more than I prize
your example ; ' but she shut her mouth intime
to keep in the caustic retort, and Mrs.
Crabtree remained mistress of the field. She
resumed, ' I repeat, that such a handsome, well-mannered
girl as Miss Gray is a dangerous
person to have for a governess, without any
blame to her. I daresay if I were in lier shoes
I should do the same. I do not pretend to be
superhumanly disinterested and virtuous. It
would have been a most injudicious step to

have brought her to Eedcot and kept her there,
if Jack had been at home. Surely mam-ma
and pa-pa's eyes wouki have been opened to
such a gross piece of imprudence. But, I
desire, you are all as innocent as babes ; I feel
quite like a Mephistopheles beside you. Even
as it is,' Susie waxed confidential while she
nodded her head with Mandarin or Burleigh -
like sagacity and grasped the two sides of her
sable cape in the most impressive manner, ' I
confess I am not quite comfortable to-day. I
am not at all certain that Mat Crabtree has not
taken a fancy to her. There are no fools like
old ones.'

Jane stood still again, fairly aghast this
time, and not without warrant. To bring such
an accusation against Mr. Crabtree in his own
garden, well nigh in his presence, and to clench
it by doing the next thing to calling him an old
fool ! Truly Susie, with an eel-like smoothness
and pliancy, did not know what reverence
meant.

Come along,' enjoined Mrs. Crab tree once
more, almost in an annoyed tone this time.
Don't you see they are looking at us . Forgive
me for being rude,' she continued, as she
rapidly recovered her good humour, ' but I
must call you a young fool, Janie, whom one
might buy at one end of a town and sell at the
other. It is not that I have not your interest
at heart. Quite the contrary. Who should if
I have not ? ' broke off Susie, lifting up her
lustrous dark eyes, and opening them wide with
an expression of almost pious sisterly affection.
I was always inclined to believe that Mat had
a sneaking kindness for you, and I should never
have stood in the way or turned him against it,
though it might have cost my boy his place.'

Susie, how dare you say such things ? '
groaned poor Jane, fit to sink into the earth.
Are you not ashamed to speak in this way ?
Mr. Crabtree is old enough to be my father.
He has done nothing but laugh at me and
argue with me ever since I can recollect.'

Oh, my dear, these fatherly feelings when
a man has just turned forty-five, are most
delusive, and not to be depended on,' pronounced
Susie, as from the depths of a profound
experience. ' As for the laughter, 1 often tell
Lamb the Crabtrees are all laughing hyenas ;
and, with regard to the arguing, why, with
some people it is the height of agreeing,' declared
Susie, with another emphatic nod. ' Such
would-be fathers and mentors are almost as
dangerous as charming persons like Miss Gray.
I say, Jane,' Susie burst out afresh with birdlike
inquisitiveness and cunning, ' I cannot
fathom the quickness with which she and Mat
Crabtree have struck up an intimacy, only
begun, I believe, at the Kershaw collier lads'
club-room the evening I was there last week.
Ah ! that, too, is not wise  a sort of levelling
of class distinctions in amateur teaching and
learning. That dear old gaby Mr. Haynes
should be well shaken for devising such an
institution. No, I never saw my worthy

brother-in-law so easily won or so readily-accessible
before. That absurd, deceptive
fatherly air, on which you say you have
counted, has this gain, that it makes him, in
spite of his bonhomie rather formal and slow in
getting along with girls, unless, as in your case,
he happens to have known them all their lives

END OF THE FIRST Voluble.

PRINTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE And CO., NEW-street SQTTARB

LONDON

'S.rg

l

W'

m

L>>

M

K

i<r

3 0112 047687998

'amin

2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/burieddiamonds02tytl

The person borrowing this material is responsible
for its renewal or return before
the Latest Date stamped below. You maybe
charged a minimum fee of $75.00 for
each non-returned or lost item.

Theft, mutilation, or defacement of library materials can be
causes for student disciplinary action. All materials owned by
the University of Illinois Library are the property of the State
of Illinois and are protected by Article 16B of Illinois Criminal
Law and Procedure.

TO RENEW, CALL (217) 333-8400.
University of Illinois Library at Urbana-Champaign

MAR 1 H 28B2

When renewing by phone, write new due date
below previous due date, L162

VOL. II.

Three-volume NOVELS AT ALL LIBRARIES.
OTHMAR. By Ouida.

FIRST PERSON SINGULAR. By D. Christie
Murray.

CAMIOLA. By Justin McCarthy.

THE UNFORESEEN. By Alice O'Hanlon.

London : CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

BY

SARAH Tatler

JTHOK OF 'saint MUNGO'S CITY' ' CITOYENNE JACQUELINE ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY


[The right 0/ translation is reserved]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME

CHAPTER PAGE

I. Learned Labtes 1

II. The Meeting and Parting at the Rats'

Ditch 13

III. The Return of a Laggard and Trifler . 41

IV. Mrs. Lambert Crabtree's Reception of her

Brother 75

V. Susie's Description of Miss Gray . . 92

VI. Jack plats the Spy 108

VII. Oxford with Escorts Seen and Unseen . 138
VIII. The Newspaper Paragraph which carries
Mat Crabtree and Jack Prior simultaneously

to St. Giles's 164

IX. The Return to Newton  Fresh Details . 190

X. Redcot, with Susie in Possession . . . 206
XI. Jack Prior and Mat Crabtree ride on a

JOINT Errand 232

XII. A Broken Bank 251

XIII. Mat Crabtree and John Prior bear the

Burden 272

XIV. Relief; but a deadlier Blow Threatened 291

CHAPTEE I.

LEARNED LADIES.

Well, Miss Gray,' Susie suddenly changed
her tone, like the most accomplished actress,
as she took a step or two forward and greeted,
in a way the most disengaged and free from
any tinge of consciousness, the dangerous
person. 'I trust the nest Alas worth the
trouble of going in search of it. Do you
include ornithology among the other ologies
at your finger ends? How delightful for
these lucky nephews and niece of mine.'

In the meantime Jane was left to hang back
and look miserably glum, as if she had been
J vol. il b

convicted of speaking scandal of Miss Gray
and Mr. Crabtree behind their backs.

I am absolutely frightened to open my
ignorant mouth before you and Jane,' ran on
Susie, showering her sugar-plums of speech all
around. ' Is not Hay bridge delightful ? The
garden, like everything else, so fresh and
flourishing, and without any little plagues todo
mischief within its bounds.'

I hope you include the master of Hay bridge
in your compliments to the place, Susie,' said
Mat, raising his hat with a little mockery. He
had interposed to cover a slight confusion on
the part of Miss Gray, who had echoed ' Nest ! '
in a bewildered voice, as if she had already
forgotten all about the wonderful specimen of
bird architecture which she had gone aside for
the purpose of inspecting. She bit her lip the
next moment, and stood silent, but she looked
bright and contented ; and Mat Crabtree, too,
had a gay. and well-entertained air.

When the party returned to the house, the

host took the ladies into his study to have
tea, while the children gathered again round
the dining-room table, inter the auspices of
the housekeeper. Mr. Crabtree's study was
his snuggery and sanctum, where he spent
the most of his time. It was a comfortable,
really good library, not seriously marred by
traces of a country gentleman's pursuits.
These were the ' Agricultural Calendar ' above
the writing table, part of which was fitted up
like a cabinet, only the specimens were not
of coins or shells, but of grasses and seeds :
the local newspaper folded to show the market
prices ; the barometer and rain-gauge inside
and outside the window ; the gun, about to
be used against the young crows, still standing
in one corner.

But it was to the well-filled bookcases that
Jane and Miss Gray were irresistibly drawn,
while Susie prowled mouse-like about the
room, and peeped knowingly at everything.
Mr. Crabtree joined the young women. He

had a scholar's pride in his choice and complete
editions, and liked to have them valued ;
but it was not a mere grasping, grudging,
dilettante satisfaction in the possession of
treasures, and in denying an approach to them
to less fortunate mortals, lest a touch should
impair spotless perfection, or render what
was rare cheap and common. His stores
had been more particularly at Jane Prior's
service ever since she had coveted them.
He invited her to take from them now whatever
she cared to have. ' What is it to be
to-day, Jane ? ' he asked cheerfully. ' Has
your cormorant appetite exhausted my modest
larder, or have you got quite beyond me .? I
warn you that in spite of Max MUlIer I have
not a single word of Sanscrit. My Hebrew
literature is confined to the Talmud  in English
 absolutely a translation. Did you ever
hear of anything so cowardly and compromising?
Will you condescend to patronise
my book shop after you have heard that ? '

But Jane hung back determinedly from the
shelves laden with massive or subtle philosophies,
and waved forward her companion.

'Miss Gray may profit by your liberality
also, Mr. Crabtree, may she not ? ' said Jane, a
little in her solemn cathedral manner. ' She
has gone a great deal further than I have into
ancient history and literature, and I happen
to know she wants Grote and Derivable, and
particular editions of Thucydides and Livy
and Sophocles.'

Now this is crushing,' exclaimed Mat
Crabtree, looking from the one to the other,
with all the merry marvel in his eyes with
which he had been accustomed to regard
Jane alone. 'You do not mean to say that
there are two of you in the same country
and of the same generation, in the same
house, out of Oxford or Cambridge, or ancient
Padua, where one woman was a professor.
There were not two Sappho or two Hypa-
tis in the Greek isles, or in Alexandria, at

their respective eras. It is too hard on a
belated man who has not even his college at
his back. Say, Miss Gray, that you never
heard of a battle in Caesar, that you have
not read a line of Homer or Virgil.'

I am afraid I cannot, Mr. Crabtree,'
answered Bennet, with her tuneful laugh,
not even to please you ; ' and there was
undoubtedly a shade of grateful emphasis on
the pronoun.

Then there are two young ladies who read
Latin and Greek, and, no doubt, beat men to
sticks on the ground which we poor male
wretches used to hold undisputed. I can't
and I won't believe it. Save my credit, Miss
Gray. Profess you do not even know whether
the Greeks or the Romans came first. Profess
any amount of ignorance you like. Why, ignorance
is as divine as melancholy  in a woman.
Only restore my self-respect ; give me back my
proper intellectual supremacy in the creation.'

Not in the way you wish,' refused Bennet.

But, oh, dear ! I am only a poor scholar ;
comfort yourself; you would soon convict me
of a thousand inaccuracies in particles.
Women are proverbially inaccurate, aren't
they ? Though I-will not flatter you more
than I can help, I do believe it has been
by reason of the poor creatures' defective
education, as a rule. And do not blame me
too much for feminine presumption. I learnt
in order to teach, and do you know there
was an idea of little boys like Tom and Sam
grown a few years older, as well as of little
girls like Ally, profiting by my instructions at
the same time ? '

That is some small excuse. Miss Gray.
But when you give up teaching, when you
return to the society of men and women,
what thence What do you mean to do with
your superfluous learning  ill-gotten gear I
call it? Jane here has some difficulty in
bestowing hers away gracefully  I mean so
as not to extinguish her brother-man  and

you may find it equally hard. I assure you
there are men, nice enough fellows, with
whom it worm be quite easy and pleasant
to live in other respects, who have not won
laurels in the schools.'

Again there was the twinkle that Jane
had caught before of fun, and of a mutual
understanding between him and one of the
company, in Mat Crabtree's blue eyes.

There was an answering flash, half of
uncontrollable . amusement, half of lively
indignation, which overcame the confusion
in Ben net Gray's eyes, as she looked up, and
replied with spirit  ' I do not know whom
you call nice enough fellows, but any really
nice fellow  any man worthy of the name I
have ever known  would never wish to strip
a woman of whatever small triumph she had
gained. He would not need ; he would have
plenty of triumphs of his own of another kind.
He would be proud  the proudest of all 
though it would be foolish, for her sake.'

She stopped with a little catch in her voice,
for she had spoken so fast that she had lost
breath.

You are right,' he said cordially, smiling
benignly on the eager speaker.

The conversation, if not idle words, was
completely mystifying, a veritable dead language,
to Jane. Not only did she fail to
understand a syllable of it, at no time could
she have bandied jests and kept her own
with Mat Crabtree as Miss Gray was doing.
Jane had always been too much in earnest
in the argument.

No wonder he liked the badinage and
looked full of admiration at his antagonist.
Even when they talked seriously afterwards,
Jane could see it was no pretence  that it
did seem to him an amazing, admirable,
diverting thing for a girl like Miss Gray  a
simple enough young girl, made to be taken
care of  bundled about, petted and found
fault with by people who were come toman's

estate when she was born  a pretty
creature, too, as he had ever seen  to know
what she knew. She could prattle with the
wisdom half of a child, half of a sage, as it
sounded to him, of the hoary campaigns of
vanished empires. She quoted with spontaneous,
keenest appreciation the very passages
which were his favourites in the sweetest,
the most sonorous of tongues which no living
lip now spoke. He was reminded of picturesque
stately figures among the learned
ladies of Old England, of ' Sidney's sister,
Pembroke's mother,' of gentle, hapless Lady
Jane, of the noble shrew, Queen Bess.

Just so, Mr. Crabtree had been wont to
stare and to smile at Jane's attainments.
Now Miss Gray shared both the surprise and
the ridicule. Somehow it had no galling side
for her. She was able to pay him back
lightly in his own coin. It was something
strange for Jane to stand aside and witness
the transfer of the tribute, such as it was,

that Mat Crabtree had paid her to another.
She had never cared for it wlieii it was
entirely hers ; indeed, she was convinced it
had rather provoked her and filled her with
disdain. Why should he be astonished at what
girls could do in learning any more than he
would be struck by the small feats of lads?
Above all, why should he laugh ? Jane could
solemnly pledge herself  and it was balm to
her hurt mind to be able to do so  that she
had never for an instant regarded her relations
to Mr. Crabtree in the odious light in which Susie
had represented them. But when all was said
and done, Mat Crabtree's books and his talk of
them to a woman, his interest in a woman's
studies, had been her peculiar property till
this day. It was bewildering, to say the least,
to be called on at a moment's notice to share
her property with some one else, even though
the sharing was at her own suggestion, and the
sharer was her chosen friend.

The position was rendered still more bewildering

and trying by the circumstance that,
during the whole time the conversation lasted
between Mat Crabtree and Miss Gray by the
bookcases, Susie kept casting covert significant
glances from them to Jane, and from Jane to
them back again at the same time. Susie
pointed the glances by imperceptible shrugs of
her graceful shoulders, elevations and depressions
of her beautiful eyebrows, and instantaneous
raising and sinking of her small,
expressive hands.

Jane was above betraying any vestige of
pique, but she was very silent in the middle of
the children's chatter, and after it had subsided
into cross drowsiness in the drive home. She
was unusually silent and thoughtful for days to
come.

CHAPTER II.

THE MEETING AND PARTING AT THE RATS' DITCH.

It is difficult to believe, nevertheless it is true,
that the fiery trial to which John Prior was
subjected had lasted till within a week of this
time. With hardly an exception he had gone
every lawful day, no longer unobserved, it is
true, for the secret could not be kept so long 
but, however speculated upon, unmolested, and
with his privacy uninvited, to Eedcot Quarry,
under Eedcot Spiny  now all bursting into
tender green and alive with feathered choristers.
He had stood for stated intervals settled upon
between the man and himself, at his post,
watching for his ruin or his deliverance. On
the surface he did not look much saunter and

greyer than be had looked in the beginning,
though under the skin the ordeal had done its
work.

When, after sundry signs of abating energy
and dying out hope, about a week before a
certain day in the beginning of April, the boring
implements and tackle which had been in
persistent use for seven or eight months were
carted away from Ladslove finally, John Prior
stood and gazed at their departure as he had
gazed at their arrival. He was not taken by
surprise. He had been reduced into entering
on debateable dealings with one of the borers
formerly in his employment. This worthy
man had eventually, like the illustrious John
Churchill Duke of Marlborough, and many
other famous magnates, consented to sell himself
to both sides. He was paid by Lambert
Crabtree for giving him the double benefit of
the collier's skill as a borer at Ladslove, and of
his old acquaintance with the dip of the minerals
at Eedcot. The enterprising miner was

also, it has to be ovvDed, paid privately by John
Prior for bringing to him the practical result
of the boring in such abstracted specimens of
rocky soil as the operation produced, and as
the operator could carry away hidden in his
blue cotton handkerchief. It was further
understood that this obliging and unscrupulous
gentleman should act in his acknowledged
master's employment  rather as a decoy-duck
than as a faithful guide  while all the time
John Prior comprehended perfectly that Mr.
Jacob Evans was, for his part, closely watching,
as far as his obtuseness would allow, the run of
\vhat he called luck, and that it rested on the
turning of a straw whether he would ultimately
betray his new master or his old. Alas, alas !
Mr. Jacob Evans was not a unique specimen of
humanity. There have been great captains,
great statesmen, ay, and great so-called Christians
seeking to make the best of both worlds,
who have not been beyond playing the same
lucrative but not very noble game.

John Prior had gone through his last interview
under cloud of night, behind the disused
mill, with the spy whom he had consented to
keep. Once more Mr. Jacob Evans had by the
light of a candle, that was found among other
conveniences in his jacket pocket, drawn forth
a moist, irregular calico ball. It had unrolled
itself, as before, into a small pudding of clay,
with morsels of stone stuck in it by way of
raisins. The manipulator of the pudding had
kneaded it into fresh proportions, as if it were
a dish to set before a king, and had been guilty
of slowly closing one bloodshot eye while he
repeated his formula.

This here stuff ain't no go, master, and I'll
be blowed if it ever do be a go. Not a crumb
of coal as would sile a baby's fingers, or of
the black slaty layers as might be lying boon
the coal has come to light ; no, nor never will
in any of them shifts.'

The prophecy had been uttered in loud,
boastful defiance.

The chances are it will not,' Mr. Prior had
been wont to say coldly and evasively.

When the busy man who had so many
irons in the fire was forced reluctantly to contemplate
the withdrawal of one iron in the
admission that the gang of borers at Ladslove
had received their dismissal, his employer had
awakened to something like animation. 'Then
you need not come again, Evans. There is
your pay, and I'm obliged to you.' ' Oh, yes,
I'll write a hue to Mr. Willet,' naming the
manager of the Eedcot collieries at Kershaw,
and he will take you on again.' John Prior
was in a hurry to get rid of the unattractive
instrument of his will, and to forget the dirty
piece of work he had engaged in the moment
the need for it was at an end ; at the same time
the promise he felt bound to keep was sufficient
in its fulfilment to expose the nature of
the recent connection between the two men.

After all, the world held that stratagems
were allowable in love and war, and the squire

VOL. II. c

of Redcot was only treating his son-in-law as
his son-in-law had treated him. If only John
Prior could have forgotten that there had been
a time in his life when he would have scorned
such stratagems and declined to deal in such
debateable ware.

How does a man feel when he is reprieved
from an impending doom? Dazed, incredulous,
giddy, mentally-intoxicated for days and
days. John Prior was well aware that he was
only reprieved, not finally delivered. Lambert
Crabtree might bore again on Ladslove next
year, or he might let the farm with its minerals
to a better-informed, more fortunate speculator.
He might sell the land out and out, and its sale
might involve new perils, as well as put the
Rats' Ditch farther beyond John Prior's reach.
But it was always something to have the evil
day indefinitely deferred.

Gradually the squire of Redcot yielded to
the comfort, the positive exhilaration of the
relief. Under its influence he allowed himself

to do what he had not dared do dung the
months of suspense when the borers had been
engaged at Ladslove. He turned his feet, ashe
had turned them on many a previous occasion
farther back in his history, to the field known
as the Dutch clover field. He had to leave the
road and climb over a stile to get to the spot,
but he had taken out with him a young fox
terrier, and for the first time for many a day
his master had whistled on old Tommy to
join company with his young foxy brother.
As it was easy to imagine beforehand, the dogs
had shown an inclination to stray and to wallow
in the shallower part of the rat-haunted
ditch in a manner which threatened Tommy
with hopeless rheumatism for the rest of his
life. John Prior whistled in an abstracted
fashion at intervals, and stood with his hands
in his pockets staring fixedly at the ground
wherein his treasure  no, his it had never
been, might never be  somebody's treasure lay
hid. This man had known of it and dreamt of

c 2

it for the better part of this whole existence, till
it had gained a desperate fascination for him,
and changed him from a person naturally careless
in money matters to a covetous crave of
the inheritance of another. But he had no more
title to the strip of land on which he was gloating
with greedy eyes, than the poorest pauper
in the parish could claim. It was another
Naboth's vineyard.

The hour of the afternoon was that at which
the master of Eedcot had accustomed himself
to go to the quarry and watch what was going
on in the meadows below, where the borers had
sometimes advanced and sometimes retreated.
And they had once been within so small a
number of yards of this ditch that, in looking
back, the fact that the men had missed its
secret struck John Prior anew as if Providence
had interposed and worked a miracle on
his behalf.

It was a blustering, windy day, with bursts
of sunshine and shade. The effect was increased

by the gusts bending and lashing the
boughs of the trees, ruffling the leaflets on the
hedges, and twisting the blades of grass and
spring wheat, until it seemed as if every \q
minutes or so all the world was seen on its
wrong side  that paler reverse side on which
everything is dimmed and loses its individual
character, much as distant slanting rain washes
out the landscape. The time was far distant
as yet from the midsummer and autumn wealth
of rank reeds and rushes, meadow-sweet and
brook-lime, iris and horehound, the indisputable
property of the ditch. But the primroses
were beginning to blossom thickly at the hedge-roots,
and the duck-weed was showing patches
of vivid green. Though the water ranunculus
remained snugly ensconced in its muddy lair,
and Crazy Betty, the Bride-of-the-Sun, would
wait till Lent and Easter were past before lie
shone like fire ; ' impulsive, tall kingcups were
already shooting their way through the withered
tangle of the last year's growth of weeds. The

water ousel, as well as the rat, frequented the
ditch, and the lark hovered over the field
beyond, pouring forth his spring song.

But it was not to look at early wild flowers
or listen to ' dicky birds ' that John Prior was
there. He did not even notice his four-footed
companions, that had ostensibly led him across
the fields, whisking round, whining, scraping,
and indulging in sudden plunge-baths that
would have filled Tommy's mistress with well-founded
apprehension. After staring down at
his feet in a brooding way for a little space,
John Prior advanced as close as he could to
the ditch without missing his footing. The season
had not been a wet one, and the water was
comparatively low  several inches beneath the
ordinary level. He stooped and stretched
forward, pressing back all he could gather in
his arms of the straggling fringe of sedges, and
keenly scanned the discoloured side of the
ditch, down to the stagnant water, as if he
vainly sought to penetrate its sullen depths.

The dogs, mistaking bis action, turned and
tore to his side, under the innocent impression
that he was summoning them to a raid
on the denizens of the place, with whom it
was their natural duty and delight to wage
war.

Get away, Fly ! Down, Tommy, you old
idiot,' Mr. Prior cried impatiently, driving his
satellites back.

As he did so he was hailed by a loud voice
from behind. ' Hallo, Prior, what are you
doing there ? '

John Prior started back with the tremor
of a guilty man, and saw the burly figure of
Lambert Crabtree in his white cords and
hunting-coat on a tall bay horse in the grassy
field a few paces off.

The appearance of the man happened in
broad day in the open field  moreover, it was
his own field, where he had every right to be,
yet the apparition was as appalling as could
well be imagined. John Prior was ashy white

as he staggered up to his feet from between
the clogs.

His challenger was moved to call, ' Good
Lord, man, what is the matter ? You look
funky all over.' Then he added, with his
peculiar delicacy, ' You ain't going to take a
fit, eh? Remember though there's water handy,
I'm on the back of my beast, and Prussian
is a tearer in a fix. I saw you from the road,
and spotted you by the dogs. I came over
because I want a word with you ; but if you
want a lift from me I'm afraid there's, not to
say two, but three at a bargain making  the
third being Prussian, whose hash I'll not
undertake to settle.'

There will be no occasion,' said John
Prior, who had recovered himself. He was
on the man's ground, and though when he
thought what ground it was, every nerve in
his body tingled, still there was no longer even
the apology for a quarrel ; and a quarrel here
while the idea of it flashed across John

Prior's mind as an ominous coincidence 
would be the most ill-judged, reckless proceeding
which angry passions could bring
about. ' I suppose stooping and struggling
with the dogs made me dizzy,' muttered Mr.
Prior ; then he added with grim, abrupt
ceremony, ' I ought to ask your pardon for
trespassing, Crabtree.'

Oh, you're welcome to come here or on
any of my fields ; they ain't very many. It is
you and Mat who are the landowners,' answered
Lambert, carelessly, shrugging his brawny
shoulders and flourishing his riding whip.
We are near relations dien it comes to that ;
and at this season in these meadows, where
there is no game to be disturbed, I should
be a curmudgeon if I refused you an exercise-ground
for poor old Tommy. I thought you
had given up taking him out  left him to
toddle after his missus. Mange ain't showing,
really ? '

The man could not help being bragging,

bullying, insolent, though he was on the point
of soliciting a favour  nay, of pleading for
mercy. There was one thing to be said for
Lambert Crabtree, that he was not naturally
a hypocrite.

I told you I wished to speak with you,
sir,' he said, with a greater effort of courtesy
the next moment, ' and there is no time or
place like the present. We shan't be disturbed
here. No listeners or interlopers save the dogs
and Prussian. Plague take the beast, how
am I to dispose of him? I must take the
chance of getting off' and tying his bridle to
that stump,' pointing with his whip to a
pollard willow near. ' If I keep the bridle
over my arm, the devil will paw and prance
in a circle round us in a fashion an elderly
gentleman with ticklish nerves might not
stand. No offence. Prior, I've seen you
ride well to hounds before you gave up
hunting.'

Lambert Crabtree had sat till this moment,

coolly looking down from the vantage ground
of his elevation upon his companion, but ashe
prepared to leap off John Prior hastily
interposed. He had said he would never
receive his son-in-law at Eedcot again ; but
the elder man would break his word, he would
do anything to get the younger away from
that spot of earth. Every second that passed
rendered the necessity the more urgent.
Wherever the interview was to take place,
whatever was to be its nature, it could not be
on the haunted ground where the men had
met. The dogs were restlessly scrambling
down the bank again. Was it possible the
dumb animals could tear down the screen of
weeds and nozzle out a black morsel of more
moment than any yellow nugget in Australia
or California .

'Come up to the house with me, stable
your horse, and say what you have to say in
peace.' John Prior tried to speak calmly and
civilly, even with a show of friendliness contradicting

a certain stern, tragic tone in his
voice.

Then it is to be peace, Prior, since I've
given up my diggings for the present ? '
questioned Lambert; Crabtree sharply. ' Well,
I'm glad to hear it ; but don't you think it would
have come more handsomely, if it had come
earlier  on your side, I mean ? For I was
always ready to shake hands across the holes.'
Then the brutal doggedness of the man came
into play. * No, I am not going up to your
house,' he said, as he sprang from his horse
and strode off towards the pollard. ' I don't
want any witnesses  any women at hand, to
pry and carry tales. I don't mean your
women in particular, so you need not look
blood and thunder. We can settle our differences
here as well as elsewhere.'

As you like,' yielded John Prior, steadying
the slight quiver of his lips, while the clouds
came over the sun, which was ' wading ' like
the moon on a stormy night, and the wind in

wild gusts swung the bushes and swayed the
grasses.

Well, Prior,' began Lambert Crab tree,
coming back with an inevitable swagger from
fastening his prancing, evil-eyed horse, his own
big red face looking swollen and slightly
bloated, either from the effects of the wind or
of the agitation under which it began to be
plain he was labouring.  I have been sold as
regards this cursed farm. The search for coal
has been fruitless, though, according to every
recognised sign, it ought to have been in these
meadows. Where the foul fiend is it . ' he
cried passionately. ' I have made up my mind
to ask you what you know ; you must have an
idea. You cannot have been all these years the
owner of the Eedcot mines without speculating
on what might blow you up any day.'

'How should I know,' stammered John
Prior, ' and why on earth should I tell you
if I did know?' he added, recovering from a
crazy fancy that the ground on which they

were standing ought to find a voice and speak
the truth.

Because I'm the very man you should tell
if you have anything to say on the subject,'
announced the other boldly. ' Look here,
Prior,' he went on, with his half assumption
of bluff frankness along with something in
his voice which was at once slyly coaxing and
savagely threatening, and of the two inflections
of the voice, his hearer liked the first the worse.
It filled him with sick disgust. ' I'll show you
why you should join forces and go halves with
me. I'll make it as good as that if you'll come
to the scratch. You're all but used up at
Eedcot. If you have any knowledge to sell
it won't pay you to keep it up. You can't buy
Ladslove  for that matter it ain't in the market
again  not yet. That son of yours  Jack,
Johnnie, whatever you like to call him  will
do no good with any information you may
choose to hand on to him. He may be a
good enough sort at cricket or billiards, in a

smoking-room or a drawing-room, but that's
about it. He will neither make a spoon nor
spoil a horn, you are aware of that ? Susie is
as near you as Jack is, faith ! with her children
she has the greater claim of the two. If you'll
put me up to a wrinkle or two I'll come round
and make an arrangement, so that you, and
Mrs. Prior, and Jack and Jill after you may
have an equal share in the benefits of my
purchase and the profits of any minerals that
may be worked on Ladslove. Come, I cannot
promise fairer than that, and you'll be a dashed
fool if you refuse my offer.'

I may be permitted to judge for myself, I
suppose, on the worth of the proposal,' said
John Prior, with dry lips, stung to madness,
and restraining himself by a tremendous effort.
You have my answer. I can only repeat what
I have already said. You have no reason to
suppose that I have anything to tell you, and
you take still more upon you, for which you
have still less right, when you imagine that if I

had I should tell it to you, of all people. My
opinion of my son is my own affair. I have
yet to be informed that he has been guilty of
anything which merits your contempt. When
it comes to that I do not know what I myself
have done that you should propose to buy me
up.'

Lambert Crabtree had exchanged his grin
for a scowl.

Take care, John Prior, you had better
think twice what you are about. I don't mind
letting you into a secret which will be public
property very soon, if you don't think better of
it. I'm on my last legs. That infernal bank
for which I've done my best  drudged  and
lied, and cheated, I suppose you would say  is
coming to grief as sure as fate. Do you wish
to see Susie and her children beggars ? '

Susie must drink as she has brewed,' said
her father bitterly. ' She took her lot into her
own hands, and she must abide by it. Your
ruin, if you are going to be ruined, is your and

her business. At the same time, it is a fine
story for you to come and tell me, or any other
listener, at this time of the day, considering
the gross extravagance of which you have been
guilty.'

'It is as true as gospel -rather truer, I
daresay,' said Crabtree, with shameless bravado.
Seems to me, however, Susie had learnt the
taste for spending money before she came tome,
though she was reared in your virtuous
and frugal household. Are you prepared to
take the consequences, John Prior, if you drive
me to extremity ? ' he ended fiercely.

I have no choice, as I happen to be an
honest man  I will not add with some small
claims to be a gentleman,' answered Mr. Prior
with a sneer.

An honest man ! ' echoed Lambert Crab-tree,
with a peculiar intonation in the middle of
his fury. ' Come, we may see what is the
extent of the family honesty before long. It
seems Susie is not likely to fare the better for
VOL. II. D

her father's consideration ; that will be a sweet
morsel for you to roll under your tongue some
day. If you are destitute of natural feeling
where she is concerned, if you do not care a
curse for her because she bears my name, other
names than the one she has acquired may not
come off without loss. Even her precious
brother, your heir and representative, Prior,
your Oxonian athlete and swell without a
degree, with only scrapes and debts to show for
his college career, who has, nevertheless, the
making of a capital man of business, a stunningly
energetic and successful future squire and coal-owner
in him  oh ! never doubt it, even he
may have to smart for it, were it only to have
his glory tarnished by his sister's downfall.'

It was the frantic raving of a man blind
with rage, and it might be, as he said, under
the black shadow of despair. Rude and regardless
as he was at. all times, largely destitute
of kindlier feeling and of any capacity for
sympathy, he spoke as if he were lashing round

him with a whip  careless where the lashes
fell, so that they raised a long red weal which
would inflict cruel pain.

While the men had been disputing, the
younger dog had remained in the ditch actively
occupied with his own business, but Tommy,
already exhausted with his unusual efforts, had
scrambled for his footing up the bank. He
now presented himself as if to claim the attention
to which he was entitled, whilst he was
incapable of any sense of intrusion, draggled
and panting, his tongue hanging out of his
mouth  altogether a sorry object. He came
among the feet of the disputants so that Lambert
Crabtree, making a sudden movement, ashe
raged and fumed, nearly stumbled over the
obstacle.

Get out of my way, you mangy cur, or I'll
kick your brains out,' he shouted, accompanying
the word by an appropriate action with his
booted and spurred foot, that sent the yelling
dog spinning across the grass.

D 2

A mist came over John Prior's eyes, and
a frenzy seized his brain. It seemed for a
moment that it was not Tommy, but Tommy's
mistress, John Prior's wife, the mother of his
children, the love of his youth, whom Lambert
Crabtree, in his ruffianly strength, had spurned.
John Prior was an undersized man beside
Crabtree, he was nearer twenty than ten years
the elder of the two, and he was a man broken
by disappointment and disaster, but he sprang
straight at his son-in-law and caught him with
such force by the neckerchief that Crabtree,
totally unprepared for the attack, was wheeled
half round, and reeled on his feet. ' Stop that,
you brute, waging war with women and dumb
animals,' cried John Prior hoarsely through his
teeth, that kept clenching themselves, 'or I'll
throttle you before I'm done.'

Lambert Crabtree wrenched himself free,
and raised an arm that could have felled an
ox. but thought better of it the next instant,
let it drop by his side, and stepped back with a

loud, derisive laugh. We are a fine father and
son-in law, ain't we?  an improving specimen
of a happy family ? But murder is not for my
book. I have never counted myself a shining
example. It is you, sir, who are a gentleman
as you suggested  though I don't know that
the Priors monopolise the stamp of gentility.
There were such people as the Crabtrees, I
believe, who settled in the shire, and furnished
sheriffs to the county, quite as soon as the other
race rendered the same service to their neighbours
 which, I venture to say, the neighbours
could have spared at their hand. But you have
certain advantages over me which nobody can
deny. You are the middle-aged father of
grown-up sons and daughters, a magistrate, a
church member who keeps regular hours and
calls up his servants to prayers, and so forth 
all that belongs to the essence of respectability
and the odour of sanctity. Yet you propose
to come to fisticuffs with your unworthy son-in-law,
who declines the unseemly, ill-matched

affray. Upon my soul, I'm astonished at you,
I suppose I had better say good-days

Lambert Crabtree ended his taunt after he
had ostentatiously re-arranged his neckerchief
and coat. ' But remember, Prior, you have to
thank me for sparing your life, which you were
prepared to throw away like an intemperate
fool. You were in my power, and I had got
jolly good provocation. I could have knocked
you into the ditch there, and kept you down
easy, and pled self-defence  the first law of
nature  if the deed had ever been called in
question, with as little trouble as I could
despatch that disgusting beast you patronise.
You owe me that good turn when the time
comes.'

John Prior stood gasping with passion, and
fighting to recover the mastery over himself.
Tommy, who happily had been more frightened
than hurt, crept whining to his protector's heels.

Lambert Crabtree walked over to his bay
horse, which, as he had predicted, had been

making a circle, pawing, flinging up his heels,
and tossing a vicious head. His master untied
him, and managed to bolt upon his back.
Then commenced a second and more equal
struggle for supremacy. The animal reared
and plunged without advancing a yard on his
road. Lambert Crabtree's great body, with
not too secure a seat, though he was a practised
rider, swayed and lurched as if he would lose
his balance every instant and fall heavily among
the quivering feet prepared to smash whatever
they encountered. It was clear that the rider
resented the opposition to his will, lost his
temper, and behaved as he would have done in
any human encounter. He struck his spurs
into his foe without mercy ; he tugged and tore
at the bridle, galling the animal's distorted
mouth. The issue seemed to hang in the
balance. It appeared as if murder must be
done, and the sacrifice of a man's life offered in
the clover-field by the Eats' Ditch, with its
jealously-guarded secret.

At last Lambert Crabtree triumphed. With
a great trembling bound of anger, torture, and
terror the bay yielded and galloped ojQT in the
direction the man wished. As it did so, its
master turned in the saddle, waved an arm,
and gave a mocking view-halloo which mingled
with the shrill whistle of the wind in John
Prior's ears.

CHAPTEE III.

THE Return OF A LAGGARD AND TRIFLER.

Only the other day visitors had been invited to
Haybridge because crocuses were out in the
garden borders and young lambs were to be
seen on the hill. Stow plumed lilac, trailing
laburnum, and the clustering snow of double
cherry blossom were making gay the Eedcot
shrubberies. Great red peonies, nodding white
narcissus  flowers and tulips  striped all the
colours of the rainbow or the sunset sky, were
paving the way for the roses. As for the lambs,
it is to be feared a goodly number had passed
under the butcher's knife, and figured at goodmen's
tables.

Those Oxford examinations in which Jane

Prior and Baronet Gray desired to figure were
close at hand. Jane had never swerved from
her determination that Miss Gray should have
the same opportunity of distinguishing herself
that Jane had. It made no difference that Mat
Crab tree took a frankly acknowledged interest
in the subject. After the breaking of the ice,
which his brother's operations had created fora
time between Haybridge and Eedcot, Mr.
Crab tree came more frequently than ever to the
Priors'. It was evident to all that he had a
great regard for Miss Gray, and that there was
a growing friendship between them. In addition
to lending her books, as he lent them to
Jane, and discussing their contents, it was clear
that he liked to talk on other topics with
Bennet, and availed himself of every opportunity
for a tete-astute. The air of a good understanding
between the two, which had existed
since the day at Haybridge, increased till it
approached to a co identical intimacy. Such
an intimacy between an exceedingly attractive

young woman and even a ' confirmed old
bachelor ' like Mat Crab tree, especially if his
years do not exceed forty-five, is apt to receive
only one interpretation even from the least
match-making of onlookers.

For the last three months Susie Crabtree
had been saying more and more pointedly, ' I
told you so.' She had plaintively reproached
Jane for her imprudence in bringing such a
governess to Eedcot, and her parents for their
supineness in the interests of Piers ; Mr. and
Mrs. Prior ought to have seen at once what
Miss Gray's little game was, without meaning
any great offence to her. It was positively a
woman's duty to better her position. But it
was also the duty of the master and mistress of
Eedcot to nip the governess's chances in the
bud, by throwing cold water on Mat Crabtree's
visits till she was honourably got rid of.

Even Mrs. Prior had alluded in conversation
with Jane to such a termination of the acquaintance
between the squire of Haybridge and Miss

Gray, and in place of pouring forth wrath had
bestowed pleased, disinterested smiles on the
latter's brightening prospects. For surely, however
well-equipped, independent, and satisfied
the young lady was as a schoolmistress, there
was some foundation still for the old-fashioned
prejudice in favour of a happy marriage and a
comfortable, secure establishment. It would
be a love-marriage on Mat Crabtree's part, and
there was nothing to hinder it from being the
same on Miss Gray's. He was his own master,
and could please himself. He was an excellent,
scholarly man, not past his prime, fine-looking
for his years, in high repute in the neighbourhood
a man that any girl might be proud to win
and not slow to love. It would be a lucky
thing for everybody if, after they had all learned
to be fond of Miss Gray, she should be established
for life so near them. Of course, Mr.
Crabtree might have chosen a wife with available
connections and some amount of fortune, but
he knew his own requirements best, and Mrs.

Prior believed he had more than sufficient for
the kind of life he preferred. He was in the
habit of calling himself a farmer, though
everybody knew the Crabtrees were gently
born and had always been in the rank of
squires. But he was totally without his
brother's taste for display and passion for filling
the first place. It was nonsense about little
Piers's being deprived of his inheritance. It
was one of Susie's idle affectations. Mrs. Prior
looked affronted and even angry when she
referred to this extreme view of the case. The
child s father and mother had no right to count
upon his uncle's remaining unmarried for his
sake. It was most unjust  a piece of selfish
impertinence. It would show much more
proper regard for little Piers and Molly's
interests, if Lambert Crabtree and Susie sought
to make retrenchments in what had become the
gross extravagance of the Bank House.

Jane listened and assented sedately to what
her mother said. She delivered it as her

opinion, not without a certain haughtiness and
hardness, as well as an unswerving rectitude of
tone, that nobody had the slightest call to interfere
with Mr. Crabtree and Miss Gray as to what
they thought fit to do, either in marrying or in
not marrying. For her part, she thought people
would often do better not to marry ; but let the
world judge for itself.

It was plain Miss Prior was not going to
forbid her friend's banns if it ever came to
that. Jane was not the style of woman who
played the dog in the manger. She did not
even change her mind about Miss Gray's being
easily spared by the children to go for a day or
two to Oxford. When, it came to that, the
candidates' presence in the town with the
examiners was not absolutely necessary. It
was the women's papers and not themselves
that were wanted. The matter might have
been managed by correspondence, only it would
be so much more exciting to be on the spot, to
learn their fate at once. The little Woods could

remain under the care of their grandmother, to
whom Bennett's views on their education had
been bringing the children nearer, thus restoring
some of the privileges of the relationship
which Jane had begun by impairing.

Neither did Jane Prior cause the whole
project to crumple down like a house of cards
by withdrawing from her share in the expedition,
when she heard Mat Crabtree announce,
half coolly, half mischievously, that he thought
he would improve the occasion. He would see
them to their destination, revisit his college,
and be at hand to witness their triumph, though
it should cause him to hide his diminished
head. He even insisted on writing to an old
landlady to secure lodgings for the ladies.

Jane accepted all these demonstrations very
much as a matter of comes, with a gravity of
acquiescence that fitted in with the extent to
which she was engrossed by her final preparations.
The last ' reading up ' was so close and
persistent that Jane was driven to be more than

ever, during all the moments she could call her
own, reduced to the company of her books, and
buried in them. She drifted away from her
fellow-competitor no less than from her interim
coach. Bennet Gray could not give herself
up so thoroughly to the coming contest, but the
absorption did not seem unnatural in Jane.
Mat Crabtree vas the only person who remarked
upon it and was disturbed by it to no purpose,
so far as producing any relaxation on Jane's
part. ' She'll study herself ill,' he complained
to his ally. ' She is in a fair way to break down.
Think of a Trojan of a young woman like Jane
breaking down ! and how vill she stand it ? It
is too bad. I wanted this visit to Oxford to be
pure enjoyment, an instance of " veni vidi vice"
to everybody ; and here is Jane, will not give an
old friend the rise of making her angry, not to
say of making her laugh. Why, I have not seen
lier eyes sparkle for a month. She has ceased
to pay me the compliment of putting me down.'
But if Jane had become so impervious to her

friends' influence as not even to be nettled or
amused by them against her will, she was incapable
of standing in their way or of doing what
is vulgarly called spoiling sport. She would
never bring upon herself the humiliation of
having to own, even in her secret chamber,
that she had deliberately, of malice aforethought,
as it were, come between the couple
whom she had not only called friends, but who
had been both of them, as she now knew, the
most intimate and valued friends she had possessed.
It would not signify whether the interference
were successful or unsuccessful. They
should never have that service to thank her for.
Distrait as Jane Prior's manner was apt to be at
this time, while she was accused of bein:; constantly
in a brown study and laughed at because
of it, there was a dignity about her silent,
austere self-restraint that made itself dimly
perceptible.

Jane had ceased to fret over the ambiguous
circumstances in connection with Miss Gray's

VOL. II. E

introduction to Mat Crabtree, which in the beginning
had so startled the listener. Whatever
was the truth concerning Berkshire and the
gentleman and lady's encounter or non-encounter
there, together with Miss Gray's reasons
for making a mystery of it, the responsibility of
that too was shifted from Jane's back, and
rested on Mr. Crab tree's broad shoulders. He
had become accountable to his friends for the
knowledge he possessed, so far as they might
become implicated in its consequences. But if
what people began confidently to anticipate
were to be fulfilled, the matter concerned himself
much more nearly than it concerned any
other person . K nd Jane Prior was large enough
minded, and pure enough hearted, to be able to
trust both Mat Crabtree and Bennet Gray in
the sequel.

An unthought-of and, in Jane's mood, a
vexatious interruption to the object on which
the girls were bent thrust itself in between
there and their visit to Oxford. Lambert

Crabtree was Colonel of the Newton Volunteers,
and, as one among his many noisy bids for
popularity, he had established the practice of
giving his men an annual jovial entertainment,
to which each volunteer could bring one of
his friends. Sometimes the entertainment had
been a dinner, sometimes a railway excursion,
supplemented by abundant opportunities and
means for refreshment. This year it was to
be a ball given in the Volunteer Hall, with
the services of the adjoining White Hart Inn
called into requisition.

For Lambert Crabtree's credit it behoved
his friends to support him in what was
sometimes called his noble generosity. The
feminine element in the entertainment this
year also rendered it Susie's affair, and she
had set her heart on its being a complete
success. It would be dreadful if her own
family did not stand by her in her laudable wifely
exertions to do her husband honour. There
were so many things against lier, she pleaded

E 2



,-ri-i-v/ r\ti II I IMni<N

quite piteously, casting up lier big dark eyes
as if she were appealing to Heaven to interpose
on her behalf. It was a bad time of the year
for a ball, though it suited Lamb and the
volunteers. The member, on whom they
might have depended for help, was up in
town in the heat of his duties at Westminster.
Several families in the neighbourhood had
started earlier than usual, after an epidemic
of measles among the children, for their
summer stay at the coast.

Painters had been in the Bank House,
which had been running to seed and calling
in the most crying manner to be done up.
Susie and Lamb and the children had been
cooped into corners and all but poisoned with
the smell of paint. The smell was there yet,
and the whole house was in disorder. She
did not have it in her power to invite her
friends to come down for a week from town 
though it was in the height of the season  stay
with her, attend the review, and make up a

nice large party for the ball, as a proper
compliment from the colonel's wife to his troop.
She had done what she could. She had gone
evening after evening to be present at drill.
She had taken rooms in the White Hart for
any ladies with whom she could use the liberty
of inviting them for a single night, and then
finding accommodation for them out of her
house. But the arrangement could neither be
complimentary nor comfortable  though the
White Hart was charming as an old inn  and
naturally she had been disappointed in a good
many of her guests. She might make a tolerable
muster on the stand at the review, but
she was very much afraid the attendance of
her friends would fall short at the ball. It
would look like a slight to the poor dear men,
who had always been so good in presenting
arms to her when she walked along the hne.
It would do Lamb harm with them and with
everybody  especially since that low, pottering
branch of a London bank had been opened

in the town. Fancy any bank except Crab-tree's
Bank in Newton ! She knew a banker
was a public servant, Hke a clergyman, or a
physician, and people expected a great deal at
his hands.

Surely Susie might count on her own sister
and Miss Gray  dear Miss Gray  who was so
obliging to her friends. She had probably
not been at many balls  they could hardly
have come in her way  so that this one,
though it went without saying that it was of a
mixed character, might be quite a little treat
for her. She, Susie, would try and settle everything
so as to suit the two young ladies from
Redcot. She was aware they were just starting
for Oxford to give an account of their studies
and reap the fruit of them, in acquiring a right
to put certain letters after their names  was
not that it? It would be a most imposing
conjunction, and the ambition to command it
was meritorious in the extreme. Her anxieties
did seem those of a frivolous wretch beside

their aspirations. But what could she do ?
She was a married woman, and must do her
little best to keep up her husband's dignity
and please him, poor soul ! She would never
dream of their appearing at the review, but
just for a couple of hours at the ball. She
would not detain them a minute longer than
she could help, as they were to leave early
the next morning. But for the very reason
that the ball would be the last thing, even
their books  if these were to be taken with
them, though it sounded like carrying coals
to Newcastle  would be packed, and minds
like theirs were too superior to be unhinged
by a poor piece of gaiety.

No, she was not jesting. She had never
been further from jesting in her life. She felt
hurt that they should think she was laughing
when she' was begging a tremendous favour
of them. She would not ask her sister and
Miss Gray to do more than dress comfortably
at home, drive straight to the hall, dance a

couple of dances or so, and, if the girls could
not stay for supper, they might drive right out
to Eedcot, and be back by twelve o'clock.
Any kind of evening dresses, even though they
were a little old-fashioned or soiled, would do
for a volunteer ball. The dear citizen soldiers
where not hard to please, though she liked to
give them her best  of course it was a different
thing where she was concerned  their colonel's
wife, who belonged to them as Lamb did in a
way.

Jane Prior could not refuse to lend her
countenance to Susie and her husband in such
a trifle, especially after Susie whispered aside
to her sister that there was only one reason
which could reconcile her to the absence of
Jane and Miss Gray. Susie had a terrible fear
that her brother-in-law might expose his deplorable
infatuation. He might dance with
Miss Gray, though he had said as far back as
when Susie married that his dancing days were
over, and he had not danced for a century.

He might set all the laws of etiquette at
defiance  he had always been a bungler when
he had to do with these very necessary rules 
by taking in Miss Gray instead of some officer's
wife to supper. The expression of that apprehension
decided the question for Jane. Susie's
importunity prevailed with her sister whatever
might be at its foundation. For it remained
doubtful what caused Mrs. Lambert Crabtree
to be so very urgent. It might be a determination
on Susie's part to get her own way,
which had always been a passion with her.
Or she might have an ardent desire to appear
before the un appreciative Jane, and the more
appreciative Bennet, in the glory of the unapproachable
dress Mrs. Crabtree had provided
for so humdrum and mixed a gathering as a
Newton volunteer ball. Or she might really
be prompted by a principle of policy in
reference to Lambert Crabtree's interests.

John Prior heard of the volunteer ball at
his son-in-law's expense with the gloomy brow

which had become habitual to him. To Mrs.
Prior's secret disappointment there had been
no heightening of the gloom coinciding with
the withdrawal of the borers from Ladslove.
Did the fellow tell me a parcel of lies about
the shaky state of the bank ? ' John Prior
asked himself. ' I incline to think not, from
sundry disquieting symptoms that have come
under my notice lately. I wish to goodness
people would take alarm and make themselves
safe in time, if there be time. Good heavens !
Crabtree's Bank coming to grief would mean
desolation far and wide round Newton. At
the same time, for him to serve up the bank
difficulties so as to make them appear in the
worst light to me, in order to suit his own
purpose, would be of a piece with the rest
of the scoundrel's conduct.'

But Mr. Prior did not forbid the attendance
of his daughter and her friend at the festivity.
He felt himself standing there gagged and
fettered, unable, it might be, to prevent a

great public wrong, but at least he would
not precipitate it. He would not expose to
the world any more than he could help  anymore
than he had exposed already  the terms
on which he stood with Lambert Crab tree.
What had occurred in the clover-field by the
Eats' Ditch must remain for ever a secret
between the two men, even though its proclamation
were to save the pockets of Newton
and the neighbourhood from being turned
inside out.

The night before the volunteer ball Newton
from the highest to the lowest was astir, and
engrossed with its preparations. One or two
bona fide upholsterers, and a score of willing
amateurs of both sexes and every degree, were
transforming the drill hall into a huge bower
with evergreens. Susie had commissioned such
a superabundance from Eedcot and Haybridge,
that not only were the stairs of the hall
converted into an avenue  the box, holly,
yew, and ivy flowed out into the streets, and

littered both pavement and causeway there as
with trophies strewn in a conqueror's path.
The greenery afforded enclosing delight to the
small fry among the populace. They appropriated
the spoil, and straightway converted
themselves, in all unconsciousness, into a highly
dramatic representation of miniature hosts advancing
on haunted Birnam and doomed
Macbeth.

In the White Hart Inn a marvellous
man-cook, come straight from London, and
dressed characteristically all in white like a
ghost, flitted here and there. He caused the
servants to give him room while he performed
his incantations and displayed his achievements
in jellied calves' heads and pyramids of whipped
cream, to match the iced champagne and
the claret cup for the cross table, which was
to accommodate the cream of the company.
More substantial pieces de resistance in roasts
and rounds, pies and puddings, well flanked
by pale ale, black stout, fiery sherry, and

fierier gin, covered the long table running
down from the cross, destined for the mass
of the guests.

Dressmakers, professional and private, were
working with their hearts in their seams, for
their own hand as well as for their betters'
benefit.

There was a great addition of traffic at
the station where Miss Gray had made her
first acquaintance with Newton six months
before. But the traffic was so thoroughly
local, and belonged so entirely to the volunteer
movement, that any traveller outside the
special cause attracted less attention than
usual.

It was a rainy evening, though the statement
did not imply a tempest  on the contrary,
a soft summer rain, more full of promise than
of threat to the corn in the ear, the root crops
in fresh green leaf, the fruit beginning to be
well set. Still the state of the weather did not
conduce to unnecessary traveling apart from

the volunteer movement. The volunteers indeed
disdained to notice the weather when
there was a question of exhibiting their uniform
; and the friends of the willing soldiers
liked to share in the exhibition. Both Mends
and soldiers rushed to and from the nearest
stations, though there were few arrivals by the
trains which did not stop every half-dozen
miles. It was from one of these ' through '
trains, dashing in after ten o'clock, when the
station lamps  which in summer were thriftily
dealt with, and unless on great occasions like
that of the ball, showed only a glimmer  that
a gentleman with no more luggage than the
portmanteau he carried in his hand, got out.
Without looking round or asking his way, or
even giving up his ticket, he walked through
the gateway. He left the ticket collector,
who was at that moment hailing a batch of
volunteers in the act of entering the station
to wait for their train, to account for his neglect
of duty to the station-master, similarly engaged

in receiving another detachment of the country's
defenders.

The traveller who set the railway authorities
at defiance, was a young man, under-sized,
rather thick-set than slim, and at a single
glance almost grotesquely plain, under an
unusual amount of tanning. The bullet forehead,
the shaggy eyebrows, the somewhat
Tartar nose were a singularly close replica of
the forehead, brows, and nose of John Prior as
those might have been when he had just attained
the five-and-twenty years of young
manhood, fairly emancipated from the last
lingering touches of boyhood. The full sensitive
mouth might have been the same also, but
it was hidden in this case by a heavy dark
brown moustache, which, while it relieved the
odd plainness of the features, and lent them a
certain dignity of vigorous young manhood,
vas also too weighty for the thinness of the
cheeks, and increased the barrenness of the
face otherwise. The face, barring the moustache,

was the face of John Prior of Eedcot
grown young again ; the figure, though stalwart
enough, was inferior to his, and lost the quality
of distinction which his amount of height conferred.
This shorter, squatter figure was not
that of a weakling. The walk and general gait
were firm and easy, like those of a man who
had been well trained, who might have come
to the front in the cricket-fields and even been
the best dancer in a ball-room when dancing
and not lounging was the order of the day.
In spite of these reservations the figure was not
elegant any more than the face was handsome,
and it was less striking for a figure than the
face, with its burgoyne peculiarities, was for a
face.

People had always thought and said that
young Jack Prior, who was so like his father
bodily, bore not the smallest resemblance to
him mentally  in fact, that he carried his
mother's spirit in his father's person. Nothing
was more bewildering than to detect the kindly.

unworldly, fanciful, and determinedly-cheerful
attributes of the one as they were expressed
by traits which bore a very different association
in the other.

But to-night Jack Prior looked as splenetic
as his father was fit to do. In place of showing
the pleasure which the young man night have
been expected to feel on his unexpected, unannounced
return safe and sound from his
voyage to Australia ; instead of displaying the
liveliest inclination to shake every woman by
the hand and take every man by the buttonhole
to exchange inquiries and congratulations,
he looked decidedly out of sorts and verging on
sulkiness. It may as well be said that this was
a condition of mind remarkably foreign to the
individual in question. But, as not infrequently
happens with sweet-tempered mortals, wrath
was no joke with Jack Prior, and tended to
perpetuate itself in a kind of mulish dogged -
ness, the germs of which he might have inherited
from both father and mother. He did not

VOL. II. F

seem inclined to greet or be greeted by his
neighbours, as he thrust his disengaged hand
down into his pocket, hunched up his shoulders
in correspondence with the action, so that the
collar of his coat was nearly coming in contact
with the rim of his travelling cap, shouldered
his portmanteau and strode on. If any enemy
such as Lambert Crabtree had seen Jack Prior
coming back in that mood, the assailant might
have pointed to the lad and cried, ' The
Prodigal's return,' with some apology in his
bearing for the slander.

As Newton was not Eedcot  was, indeed,
distant from it by a longish drive, and had not
been frequented to any great extent by Jack
Prior  above all, as the town was at that
moment over head and ears in its volunteers
and their ball, the newcomer carried his point
and was not hailed and stopped while he pursued
his way. It was not till he was well quit
of the station, and entering the street in which
the Volunteer Had and the White Hart were

situated, that he was sufficiently roused from
his bad humour to observe the festive element
in the town. ' What the mischief is up ? ' he
asked himself more irritably than sympathetically.
' Has there been an election, and is the
new member coo-cooing the free and independent
electors .? Is the Duke dead, and has the
new Duke come to his kingdom ? Oh ! the
volunteers, is it ? ' Comprehending the situation
as he approached the lit-up Volunteer Hall,
with its trail of evergreens, ' then, of course,
Susie and Crabtree have their fingers in the
pie.' He hesitated. Before him lay the road
through the outskirts of the town to Eedcot,
which he could reach either by taking a trap
from the White Hart, if an available trap were
procurable at such a season, or by walking.
He was a good walker, and it would be a relief
to his hot young blood and the trouble on his
mind to tramp through the wet and the friendly
shrouding darkness all these miles.

But in that case Jack Prior would not arrive

p 2

at home till after midnight. He would have
to ring up the house and alarm his mother 
not to say incense his father. No, Jack's homecoming
was not likely to be so welcome, unless
where his mother was concerned, for him to
propose to accomplish it with a ringing of
bells.

On the other hand, Susie, unless her house
were full  and if it were he had not gone sofar
without being able to rough it if she would
let him  could put him up for the night, and
tell him all that was going on. Crab tree, whatever
he was, and he was no favourite with Jack,
did not fail in hospitality, and Susie would dispense
the news. Jack had met with one
extinguisher,' as he called it, since he landed
in England, and it had not only ruffled him to
an unwonted extent, it had shaken his faith in
what else might befall him. He had missed all
the last letters from Eedcot, and he had heard
nothing of his family for a long time. If things
had gone wrong in other quarters, why not

here also? How did he know what changes
might not have come to pass in the interval ?
A sudden consternation and cowardice seized
upon the young man of another sort from the
mere reluctance to encounter his father's bitter
disapproval.

Jack Prior's steps grew slower and heavier
as he drew near the High Street, at right
angles from Market Street. Crabtree's Bank
and the Bank House, with the church and a
cluster of the best houses in the town, were
situated at the aristocratic end of the High
Street. Should Jack Prior shirk for this night
the ordeal that lay before him? Should he
decline to face the worst without being forewarned
and forearmed ? Should he take refuge
with Susie, who would at least be gushingly
good-natured and amusing? Susie was not
like Jane, who sat upon a fellow as if she were
his senior instead of his junior, and had, to say
the least, a maiden aunt's right to find fault.
He coidd tell Jane that cleverer women than

she was had overlooked his lack of brains or
application, or whatever it was, and listened to
him in spite of his ugliness, and given him
their best.

Ah ! had they  had the one clever woman
whom he had been generalising really given
him her best, or had she, on second thoughts,
changed her mind and drawn back in time ?
He was obliged to confess it looked like it after
his interview with that prim young woman 
that born schoolmistress, that ready-made
spinster. Miss Burton. How on earth could
Bennet pin her faith to such a stick, and lavish
her confidence on a stickler for school forms
and social etiquette ? He had burst in on Miss
Burton on his way south, after leaving his
luggage at Hull, to ascertain at once  as he
had a right, and she knew he had a right to
know  whether Miss Gray had left Berkshire.
She had thought it probable she might do so
when he last saw her, and in that case he
wished to learn where she was to be found, in

order to prevent vexatious mistakes and delays.
And Miss Burton had got red, and hummed
and hawed, and been as much flurried as if
she was Miss Gray, and had yet to be made
acquainted with his intentions. She had managed
to make him feel that it was an unwarrantable
indiscretion for him to be there at all in
the schoolmistress's reception-room. She had
hurried him away without a particle of satisfaction.
Satisfaction ! It had been anything save
that. She had admitted that Miss Gray was
no longer in Berkshire, but she had refused,
absolutely refused, knowing what she knew, to
give him Bennet's present address till she had
time to think and consult the person principally
concerned. This detestable Miss Burton had
been agitated, as if there was sufficient cause for
what appeared to him her unpardonable reticence.
Moreover, she had prevented Jack
from seeing her father, who, as he was a man,
might have listened to reason. (Jack would
have come nearer the truth if he had put it 

would have been more likely to see the difference
between the spirit and the letter of an
obligation.)

In the end Jack Prior had departed from
the girls' school half-stunned and wholly exasperated
and affronted, without condescending
to give Miss Burton any hint of what was to be
his next destination.

The interview had only taken place that
afternoon. The young man, who had been
travelling for the greater part of the day, had
not recovered front the effects of it, or made up
his mind what step he should take to procure
the information Miss Burton had most unjustifiably
denied him. He had come on to Newton
and there the question forced itself upon him,
should he go straight to Eedcot and perhaps
receive another blow  be told that somebody

was ill or . Jack in the middle of his

dudgeon did not say the other word, or have
recourse to Susie, who would prepare him for

what he had to expect. If nothing was wrong 
what could be wrong ? it was only his disturbed
consciousness which fancied that something
must be the matter  his sister would smooth
him down and entertain him for the night.

Jack paused irresolute. The man or woman
who hesitates is lost, says the adage. If ever
human being was so lost it was Jack Prior.
At that moment two ways lay before him in
more senses than one, for that was the turning
point, not only of his journey for the night, but
of the journey of his life. He chose, as so
many of us choose, the nearer, shorter, easier
way, and suffered for it, as so many of us suffer
for listening to the arguments of sloth and
cowardice. The choice had been his, and if he
had made it differently, if he had elected to
]play the braver, truer part, his history would
have been different, he would have been saved
the punishment which sooner or later overtakes
the sinner. But with the punishment he would

have missed the lesson which scotched the
snakes' heads of sloth and cowardice which
beset him, then and for ever, and changed a
loveable, vacillating lad into a man strong to
bear and to do.

CHAPTEE ly.

MRS. LAMBERT CRABTREE's RECEPTION OF HER
BROTHER.

A STRANGE servant opened the hall-door of the
somewhat stately portico to the Bank House in
answer to Jack Prior's knock. As if he was
destined to be overwhelmed with strangeness
on his arrival he was shown into the newly-painted
hall, up the newly-painted staircase,
into the newly-painted, freshly-arranged .
It was harmonious and dark in
grey greens, olive Irons, dead gold, and
wrought brass, not unpleasant to contemplate
first and last, but making him feel as if he had
never been in the house before. Susie might
only have taken possession of the house that

day, with nothing save the fundamentals in the
public rooms set in order.

The mistress of the house was absent, out
at the drill-hall, if Jack had been told. On
the whole, he did not look a suspicious character,
so the servant who had answered his
inquiry left him, though the hour was not a
canonical hour for any visitor, save the habitues
of the house, to wait for Mrs. Crabtree's return.
Jack had time to fret and fume, turn over the
newspapers and club books, wonder if the
children were in bed so that he might not ask
for their company, speculate what Lambert
Crabtree did with himself in the evenings, and
question what on earth Susie could be about
abroad at this hour. She could not be at
church, because it was too late for any service,
even for choral practising ; besides, Mrs. Lambert
Crabtree held advanced views which dispensed
with all save the most perfunctory
church attendance. She could hardly be out
at dinner, else the servant would have mentioned

it. He had time to doubt and feel
remorseful, to think he had better have gone
on to Eedcot, faced his father's caustic coldness,
and given the fragments of the first
evening to the mother. He owed it to her.
He was giving her cause to reproach him,
though certainly the reproach would never be
uttered.

At last Susie came in, still wearing her hat
and light summer mantle. The same servant
who had admitted Jack had told her mistress
that there was a gentleman  a stranger  in
the drawing-room who had asked to see her.
Susie had made a little moue as if her patience
was worn out. She had come up the stairs
slowly as if she felt tired, and was turning over
in her mind how she might dismiss the intruder
most plausibly and urbanely, for Susie was
plausible and urbane if she was anything.

She must have been very wearied and
worried, apprehensive of fresh fatigue and
trouble, for she entered the room quietly, with

almost an intermission of her wonted graces.
In place of casting a sidelong, languishing look
at Jack from her lovely eyes, she darted out
sharp glances from under her lowered eyebrows
straight at him. The servant had lit the
lamp, and of course Susie knew her brother
instantly, though he had grown a large moustache
and was tanned considerably deeper than
she had ever seen him. With a little spontaneous
shriek of delight, she sprang to him and
clutched at him rather than clung to him.

Jack, you here I come back to stay with
me ? ' she cried so breathlessly that her accents
were broken with joy.

Jack had entertained an impulsive liking
rather than a deliberate preference for his sister
Susie. What man could refrain from admiring
and seeking to cherish so beautiful, pleasant,
and dependent a creature? But the truth in
Jack Prior had been enough to inspire an
uneasy, mortifying suspicion, even when this
vision was most agreeable, that the pleasantness

was too sweet to be wholesome, and did not
ring true. However, the most sceptical could
not have doubted that Mrs. Lambert Crabtree
was glad to see her brother. The proof of her
affection coming at such a time not only helped
to restore Jack's self-respect, it touched him
keenly. ' Thanks, Sue,' he said quickly as he
kissed her ; ' it is good that somebody is happy
to have me back.'

Happy ! ' cried Susie enthusiastically, and
there was actually moisture glistening in her
fine eyes. ' Happy is not the word. I am
enchanted, my dear boy; and I shall have you
all to myself, for Lamb has been called up to
town on business this very afternoon. Horrid,
isn't it, with all this volunteering going on?
However, he hopes to get down to the ball at
least. But you will stay with me, and take
care of me, and keep me company, dear.' She
heaped up the affectionate, appealing words.
I shall not be obliged to have in that poor,
tiresome, Mr. Parsons,' and an aggrieved.

harassed look came into her face at the mere
mention of the official's name. ' You know
Eoger,' mentioning the man-servant, ' who has
been slaving all day at that blessed hall, sleeps
in the bosom of his family above the coach-house.
We have always to get Mr. Parsons to
stay in the house  not to leave it to unprotected
females, on account of the bank  when Lamb
is from home. I cannot avoid inquiring if Mr.
Parsons is made comfortable, and bidding him
good night, when he will call me " ma'am," and
detain me with long-winded speeches about
giving me trouble and being in my way. Bless
the man ! on ordinary occasions I smile and
say, " Not at all, I am the obliged person. The
interests of the bank are sacred. I would not
endanger them for worlds," and think no more
about him, beyond bidding the maids look after
Fie worthy creature. But to-night, when one
is worn off one's feet already, with this miserable
ball, it is the last straw which breaks the
unfortunate camel's back.' That was settled.

And now, Jack dear, what have you had
to eat, or rather, what will you eat ? ' urged
Susie. ' Did you dine early or late, or not at
all? For I know you are a foolish, careless
boy in not making it a duty to look after yourself.
Shall we have a cosy supper together,
whatever and whenever the dinner was ? What
do you say to a veal cutlet or a salmon steak ?
I am so sorry we cannot have a game pie, but
you have not forgotten my lobster salad, I
hope ? ' As she spoke she pulled off her long
gloves and laid aside her mantle and hat,
putting them down on the sofa beside her.
She was left in the demi toilet of a faint-coloured
thin evening gown, with sleeves
reaching to the elbow and a square-cut bodice
finished with frills of lace. It was a pretty
and becoming house dress in itself, but the
dimness of the colour seemed to be reflected in
her face, and to cause her warm and brilliant
brunette complexion to pale to a wan sallowness
 the change in such a colour as hers when
VOL. II. G

from any cause it is blanched. In the same
manner the softness of the stuff of her gown
resulting in lines almost as straight, and folds
as close as Jane patronised, exaggerated Susie's
smallness and shyness. It made her appear
for the moment almost meagre  a minute
specimen of humanity afflicted with a strange
nervous springiness rather than a perfectly-proportioned
sylph gifted with exhaustless
skimming grace and an Atlanta swiftness of
movement.

Jack observed the effect with a little vague
surprise and regret, and referred to it the next
moment. He had been saying, ' You are the
old woman, Susie, spoiling a fellow through his
baser appetites. Do you think I have been
feasting on game pie and lobster salad in the
bush ?'  when he broke off to add with brotherly,
blundering, plain-speaking, ' But what have you
been doing to yourself, little woman . You are
not up to the mark. Have you been ill, or
what ? You might have lost your teeth and

hair, and been as old as Crabtree  not that he
is bald and toothless  to see you to-night.'

Jack ought to have known that he could not
have said anything more certain to offend his
sister, even though the speech was off-hand and
half in jest. But he was not prepared for the
something more serious than petulance, the
passionate vexation and alarm in her voice
when she answered him. ' What do you mean
by speaking like this to me, Jack ? ' she protested.
And the scarlet flush of her anger
instantaneously recalled the bloom that had
gone for the time, while the swelling of the
throat and neck restored the roundness of the
shrunk lines. ' It is too bad. You must be
aware that I hate the idea of growing old and
ugly. With this incubus of a ball hanging over
my head  when everybody will be remarking
upon my looks  after I have taken such pains,
too, to be myself  it is very unkind of you to
tell me in this rude, abrupt way, that you see
how much I have fallen off of late.'

My dear Susie,' remonstrated Jack, half
amused, but still more astonished and distressed,
you cannot think for a moment I meant to
hurt you. *' Fallen off! " you are anything
save fallen off now. You are as red as a rose,
and you look as if you were towering up to the
roof, a dragon ready to come down and crush a
repentant sinner. " Old and ugly ! " What
ridiculous bosh ! When you are not thirty, and
you have always been  well, not a fright, Susie.
Come, forget my speech, which was not a compliment
; but I am sure you have had compliments
enough from all the world  there, that
is better as a specimen of politeness  to dispense
with them from me. How are they all at
home ? Has the poor pater got over my lack
of brains, sense, and go. Is the mother still
pretending to have no attention to spare from
her quilts and her novels, dear soul .? What is
Jane about with the little Woods ? How are
Orabtree and the babies ? '

Susie was not hard to appease ; indeed, she

made a half apology to her brother for being
touchy, explaining plaintively how much she
had been put about, what a great deal of thinking
she had been obliged to do within the last
few weeks, between the painters in the Bank
House and the calling out of the volunteers.
Not a corner quite in order, not a hole we
could call our own till the tradesmen departed
finally with their brushes and pails yesterday.
To think that I have the Pierrepoints, mother
and daughter, and Petty and Gerry and May
Allardyce all established in the White Hart
Inn. Bertie and Ben Milestone are there
also. Ben saw me to my own door ten
minutes ago. I have just come from them,
and I ought to have stayed with them. I
don't deserve to be rewarded by a cosy supper
and chat with you. Jack dear, which will be so
much nicer and more refreshing.'

Susie was as good as her word. After she
had despatched a message to Mr. Parsons,
Lambert Crabtree's head clerk, that his services

would be dispensed with, she ordered
up everything that the heart of man could
desire for Jack's bodily solace. She set herself
to entertain him, and when she had
recovered from the fatigue she complained of,
and the affront he had inadvertently dealt
her, she was her bewitching, amusing self
again.

Poor little thing, she has been done up,
and was out of sorts, I suppose, with all this
fuss,' Jack thought. ' It is kind of her to
exert herself on my account. I did not give
Susie credit for so much family affection,' he
reflected remorsefully. But Jack did not
approve ; nay, he was secretly aggrieved, and
a good deal ' riled ' by what might have
been called the irreverent affectionately of
the tone in which Susie spoke of their father
and mother's foibles, and made good stories
out of pap-pa's growls and close-fixedness
and mam-ma's weakness for Tommy. Still, it
was done so lightly and divertingly that Jack

laughed against his conscience, and could not
put a stop to the raillery.

'Let me see,' said Susie, resting her two
elbows on the table in a free-and-easy fashion
which had recently found favour in polite
society. In doing so she lifted up her slender
arms  from which the lace fell back, and supported
her chin on the little clasped hands.
There sapphires and emeralds blazed in a style
hardly in accordance with the position of the
wife of a local banker, even though she was a
Prior of Eedcot, and he a Crabtree of Hay-bridge.
' Where are we at ? ' as if she were
speaking of their place in a book they were
reading. ' What is the greatest event that
has happened in your absence ? Oh, I have
it, the advent of Janie's idol, the Eedcot
governess.'

 ' Is she such a stunner ? ' asked Jack,
clasping his hands behind his head, smothering
a yawn, and not exhibiting much curiosity.
Well, you know, I always say she's not

my style,' explained Susie, with her ingenuous
coquettishness. 'That makes me dispassionate,
but, on the other hand, it hinders me from
being so appreciative as I might have been
even with a heart devoured by jealousy. She
IS reckoned handsome, and she's quite awfully
clever  knows both Latin and Greek  that
goes without saying  and I daresay could

Solve a problem
In Euclid before she could speak.

What is of more consequence to her and to
everybody,' went on Susie, with her affectation
of cynicism, ' she is perfectly well aware on
which side her bread may be buttered. If you
will believe me, she has been employing herself
making up to my elderly brother-in-law.
Mat, and I am not at all clear that I may not
have to welcome her as a sister-in-law, one of
these days, with all the grace I can muster.'

The plot is thickening and getting interesting,'
declared Jack, waking up. ' She
must be a clever woman. Mat Crabtree of

Haybridge is not a bird to be caught with
chaff

Oh ! Mat has an idiotically soft side,'
said Susie, shaking her small worldly-wise
brown head, that had sometimes the pretty
pert air of a charmingly knowing linnet or
hedge-sparrow. ' And Miss Gray has " come
over him," as Lamb says, where that vulnerable
region is concerned.'

Miss Gray ! ' muttered Jack, unlocking his
fingers and letting his arms drop, with so irrepressible
a start that it was well for him the
drawing-room in the Bank House, in which
the new chandeliers were set with wax candles,
furnished only a dim, religious light, most
aesthetically obscure. He was telling himself,
in the same breath, what a self-conscious ass
he was. There was not a commoner name in
England. There were Grays and Grays of all
shades, as his sister had said before him,
though the plagiarism was involuntary. What
on earth should his Miss Gray be doing here,



at Eedcot of all places in the world? His?
Was she his if there was a particle of truth in
Susie's outrageous story  if Miss Burton had
any tangible ground to go upon when she
refused him the information to which he was
entitled, that very morning ?

Where does this marvel come from ? ' he
steadied his nerves to ask, in an odd voice
which did not fail to strike on Susie's quick
ear.

Why do you inquire ? ' she turned upon
him. ' Are you going m for a share of her
smiles? You men are so gregarious, that if
one of you leaps the hedge the rest are sure to
follow, mad to see what the other side is like.
That is why widows are so popular. I always
tell Lamb that if he would do me the favour
to make me a widow, even though I should not
be without encumbrances, I could have three
times more offers vet than I had to Dick and
choose from in my maiden days. Where does
Miss Gray come from ? You don't think she is

such a fool as to go about proclaiming that ?
answered Susie, laughing with the strain of
hardness in her laugh that sometimes prevailed
till it spoilt its melody. ' Her crony Jane told
me that the father Gray was an attorney in
London  respectable enough, you see, and
may judiciously be manipulated till it sounds
like a barrister, a sergeant-at-law, anything upto
the Attorney-general.'

London, like Gray, was a wide word, Jack
was reminding himself desperately, and it contained
enough limbs of the law to form a
Briareus.

CHAPTEE Y.
Susie's description of miss gray.

Can't you give me a clearer idea what Mat
Crabtree's flame is like, if you cannot swear
precisely to her antecedents ? ' Jack pressed
hoarsely, with a feint of carelessness.

Give me a moment,' begged Susie, sitting
silent afterwards with her eyes on her lap, as if
trying to conjure up the salient points in the
lady's attractions. In reality she was saying to
herself, 'Mr. Jack has been in mischief again.
It is highly improbable that he can have come
across Miss Gray, but he may have met with
somebody in similar circumstances, who may
easily have proved too much for him. Mamma's
boy may have left a wife  the family

must still be in the future  behind him in
Australia, or why not at the railway station
here ? His coming first to me instead of going
to Eedcot was rather incomprehensible. Well,
pap-pa will not be very sweet to Mrs. Jack
when she appears on the scene. I don't think
she'll find quarters at Eedcot. What a fool
Jack must have been! and there he sits staring
at the wall, gulping down what he has on his
mind. What a mercy he is not a girl ! Ugliness
doesn't signify much in men ; women don't
want rivals. Lamb never was an Adonis, but
he has thews and sinews, while poor Jack is
short as well as ugly  ugly enough to frighten
babies when he is in this mood. As like pap-pa
as two peas, but not the more likely to agree
on that account. I wonder if the disagreement,
and whatever trouble Jack is in  he is pretty
sure to be in some mess  could be any good tous
now ? If we promised to back him through
everything, whether he would not help us and
be of use  only he is such a stupid boy when

there is such need ! But perhaps there will be
no need after all. Lamb goes from one extreme
to another, and likes to play the wolf and
terrify me, poor little Need Hiding Hood, needlessly,
sometimes. He may come down tomorrow,
and say it has all blown over, as he
has said before.'

These thoughts had crossed Susie's mind
with the rapidity of lightning. Now she
looked up, and apparently gave the result of
her cogitations with her usual vivacity.

A daughter of the gods !
Divinely tall and most divinely fair,'

she quoted, laughingly ; ' in sober prose, not so
tall as Jane, about the middle height, and not
fair at all in the sense of a blonde. Brown-haired,
hazel-eyed, broad browed, straight nosed,
fresh coloured, with good teeth but too square
a jaw. Not bad style but not much of it. A
comely young women in rude health, who
might have been a milkmaid or a simple
squires, like mam-ma, if she had not been a

blue stocking some shades lighter than Janie,
and not half such a prig.'

There was a pause in the semi-darkness.

Miss Alice Gray must be a lucky young
woman with such a bodily and mental physique,'
said Jack at last ; ' ain't there an old song with
her name in it ? '

I don't know ; but our Miss Gray, as shop-people
say, is not an Alice. She signs herself
B. Gray," and mam-ma told me that B. stood
for the surname Bennet.' Jack rose from his
chair precipitately and began to walk backwards
and forwards on the side of the room
which was most in the shade, and to stand with
his back to Susie, looking out at one or other
of the windows, which, as they commanded the
lower part of the garden, presented only the
rainy sky and the hardly-discernible flower-beds
for his inspection. His heart was now throbbing
like a paddle wheel, now standing still ; his
face was red with rage and white with pain by
turns ; he was hot and cold in swift alternations.

He could not sit still and face Susie's scrutiny.
He must get up, or die, or tell everything.

Susie seemingly took no notice of what
might be c )colonial manners, taken on with Jack's
acknowledged facility for picking up unprofitable
acquirements. She went on with her
chat. 'You will see the young woman at the
ball tomorrow night. Of course, you will goto
the volunteer ball. It is quite as much my
ball as it is Lamb's, and you must do it honour.
You will be a lion  the newly-returned traveller.
You will dispute the pas with the beautiful
Eedcot governess  she has risen into a
beauty on the score of her success  who is
going to make a marriage above her in station,
having captivated that incorrigible old bachelor,
Mat Crabtree of Haybridge.'

I fear I can't,' stammered Jack, like a man
who had well drunk. Indeed, though he had
never been accused of the vice of drunkenness,
Susie was tempted for a second to suspect him
of it. ' I am too modest.'

Oil, no, you are not. You will go, Jack
dear. Now that I think of it,' cried Susie,
full of zeal to inaugurate a new enterprise, ' do
cut hun, Mat, out, just to oblige me. He
deserves it ; he is good game  a man old
enough to have had a grown up daughter. To
throw over little Piers!  he ought to be
ashamed of himself. But that sort of girl is
apt to lose her head with her greed, she never
knows when she is well off. She will snatch
at another chance  you are not a better match
than old Mat, but then you are young, and the
son of her employer. I don't say sacrifice
yourself  not for worlds  I would not be so
treacherous to my family. But draw her out,
play off your admiration at first sight. She is
probably mad on making conquests. Get her
to flirt with you. Mat would not forgive that,
he is as prudish as an old maid about women's
behaviour. I don't know what I should have
done if he had been Lamb.'

Xo man would stand such behaviour
VOL. II. H

objected Jack, roughly. ' But I can't, Susie ;
I'm too honest,' the last word said almost with
a groan.

No,' exclaimed his sister, ' not when you
will be conferring a public benefit by warning
off other young women like Miss Gray from
stealing a march upon unsuspecting families.
Men are so unprotected  so open to attack 
yet I don't suppose Mat is so purblind as to be
beyond enlightenment. You may open Jane's
eyes too ; sisters may be brought to see to a
wonderful distance when their brothers are the
unconscious operators. It will" only be for a
night, and she is really a handsome, agreeable
girl, if you can swallow a walking dictionary.
After tomorrow night I am afraid it will be
too late for this reason  the two learned ladies,
with the grizzled victim Mat in their train, are
to start the next morning for Oxford. It is the
thing now for women to take degrees instead
of men, my child,' with a wicked glance over
her shoulder at Jack. 'Unfortunately, Mat

took his ages ago ; he cannot undo the deed ;
but he is so willing that the future Mrs. Mat
should have her innings and share his honours,
that lie is going down with the girls to see
justice done. He has secured his old lodgings
in St. Giles Road for Jane and Miss Gray. By-the-bye,
they were your old lodgings, too,
where I flatter myself I worked sad havoc
among the under-graduates more than once at
Comme. Don't you remember ? I have no
doubt Mat's proposal will be made in due form,
and most appropriately among academic groves.'
There may be two at a bargain-making.
I think I'll take your advice, Susie,' said Jack,
with flaming face, furious eyes, and a harsh
laugh as he turned round. ' I'll go to your ball,
and have what you call my innings. But you
must give me quarters here till the ball. I
cannot walk over to Eedcot and have it outwith
them there first. The mother, God help
her, would not let me go so soon, and, if I'm todo
such damage on the spot, I ought to flash

H 2

on the pair like a meteor, I take it.' He spoke
foolishly, almost incoherently, but Susie caught
at the proposal.

Oh yes, Jack, stay with me, darling,' she
implored as when she had come in without
any expectation of finding her brother. ' Help
me with the wretched ball and all the rest.
They need not know that you have come,
out at Eedcot. They will have enough of
you since you have returned to settle at home,
no doubt. They need not grudge you to
poor me for a day or two  Lamb away, and
everything. Jane and Miss Gray are so occupied
with their studies that they will not be in
Xewton till the evening, and then they drive
straight to the ball, and straight home again
when they have had enough of the thing. If
you really want it not to be known that you
are here,' continued Susie, breathlessly, her eyes
sparkling with her swift scheming and fondness
for the manoeuvring  even when it was not
wanted, which Jane hated, ' you can stay in the

house all the morning. But mind, I don't
pledge myself that you will lie perdu since
there are hundreds of chances against it, and
birds of the air carry tales. Only I'll do what
I can to humour you, for, oh, dear, dear, you
have lifted a load from my mind, you jewel of
a brother ! '

It is well when a fellow can be accommodating,'
said Jack, dryly, ' and can kill two
birds with one stone.'

After Susie had bidden Jack good night
she came back, put her two hands on his
shoulder, and looked wistfully in his face.
These two members of one family were totally
unlike ; but because of their very unlikeness,
and also because they were brother and sister,
and not two brothers or two sisters, they had
been happy together in many a light-hearted
hour of the past. Was there compunction in
Susie's woman's breast as she looked into the
homely young face, with the weariness and
trouble in it, which made it lock, for the

moment, so much more like her father's than
it had ever looked before ? Had she a passing
yearning simply to comfort Jack, returned from
his wanderings and come first to her before he
had gone to his mother ? Did she relent in her
half-defined purpose to make gain of his
trouble, and employ it to render more secure
the tottering plank on which she might have to
cross a yawning gulf, not caring though Jack,
too, were dragged down with her to perdition ?

What Susie did say when she opened her
mouth was, ' Now, Jack, speak the truth. Is
it your candid option that to have things on
your mind  your conscience, if you will  to
be forced to keep secrets you never can tell the
world, must make you haggard and hideous,
and cause all your good looks to go off before
your time ? '

Oh ! confound good looks ! ' cried poor
Jack, becoming worse mannered than ever.
'Who cares for good looks unless fools of
women? A morsel of heart is worth all the

good looks in the world. What do I know of
the interesting subject ? Nobody can pretend
it is in my line,' with a sneer that only half hid
an ancient soreness. 'You have had your
share and mine too, you grasping individual,'
he said more lightly, ' and it has made you a
conceited little wretch for your pains.'

Next morning, having tossed and tumbled
through a miserable night. Jack abruptly demolished
the flimsy fabric of a stratagem which
Susie had reared, and to which he had consented
the night before. He was not going to
the volunteer ball. It was high time that he
and some other people, who should be nameless,
had done with balls. For his part he was sick
of them. No, he would not go in morning
dress, and he could not send out to Eedcot for
his clothes without letting his people know that
he had come, and was staying in the neighbourhood,
and so giving fresh offence in that
quarter. But he would tell his sister what he
would prefer to do, if she would let him. He

did not care to go to Eedcot without a farther
notion of how the wind blew in reference to
his father. He (Jack) would like to have a
word with Jane first. He would be glad of a
day's rest and respite, for he was about done
for ; but next morning he could take a run
down to Oxford, catch up the party from Eed-
cot, get out of Jane what he wanted to hear,
and make up his mind there what he ought todo.
After all, he wound up grimly, he might
be of some service in preventing the proposal
among the academic groves which Susie had
predicted. Jack was sulky again, contradictory
and cross, in a mood which, though rare,
was not altogether unprecedented with him.

One might have thought that Mrs. Crabtree
would have been grievously disappointed by
this frustration of her benevolent intentions and
high moral aims  to wit, the rescue of a gentleman
of mature years incapable of looking after
himself from the snare into which he had fallen,
together with the exposure and disarming for all

time to come of a young Avomaii found guilty of
a too vaulting ambition. Arguing from Susie's
zeal the evening before, it would seem as if the
weight of her vexation at its being baulked
should have been considerable. Above all,
one might have fairly expected Susie to be
exceedingly piqued by the necessity for that
word with Jane, to which Jack confessed after
she  Susie  had expended upon him ever so
many words. But the check came when she
was too much engaged to resent it or protest
against it. She had a telegram from her
husband that he could not come down till night
if then, he w.oukl make a great push, just to
show his face at the ball, but he must leave
within a couple of hours and return to town.

All the affairs of the volunteers, supper
and speeches included, seem to fall upon me,'
Susie complained. She was overwhelmed with
obligations. She was only too glad to have
Jack in the rear to fall back upon. He need
fear no visitors, for the Bank House was positively

deserted in the general festivity. Everyone
knew it had been given over to painters,
and that she was receiving all her guests at the
White Hart. It was dreadfully awkward, but
what could she do ? And as she had said, she
was only too glad to have Jack to come home
to, and consult and to keep with her another
night as the male guardian of the place instead
of that depressing Mr. Parsons. 'Well, do as
you please, Jack,' was the carte blanche she
accorded him at last ; and though she spoke in
the pathetic, dependent way which was a habit
of hers, at times, she had recovered completely
from the signs of over-exertion and strain
which she had shown the evening before. She
was almost radiant in her alertness, flying here
and there, the moving spirit of the scene, her
eyes beaming, her cheeks glowing, her mind
working with marvellous quickness, precision,
finesse It was as if excitement suited her, and
she found in it the most powerful, subtle, and
exquisite of simul into.

As for poor, distrustful, credulous Jack,
with poison working in his mind and despair
knocking at his heart, he hung about the Bank
House drawing-room and garden, playing languidly
with the children, smoking innumerable
cigars, exchanging a word with Susie when she
darted in occasionally, but speaking to no one
else, and religiously abstaining from quitting
the place, or even from looking out of the
front windows. For in the middle of his selfish
wrath and grief the thought smote him sharply
every now and then that he would be doing
the mother ' an unpardonable wrong if he let
her learn his return from any mouth save his
own.

CHAPTER VI.

JACK PLAYS THE SPY.

Jane Prior and Miss Gray were dressing in
their several rooms for the volunteer ball at
Newton. Jane had put off the necessary duty
to the last moment, but, while she went about
it reluctantly, she accomplished it with characteristic
despatch. However, she had not acted
on Susie's accommodating suggestion that any
old-fashioned soiled evening dress might do
for the occasion. Jane had too much self-respect
to be a sloven, though she had a fancy
for being severely plain in her attire. She was
plain to-night, in a quite simple white gowan,
with no ornament except the crimson flowers in
her hair and bosom. But the plainness suited

her wonderfully. Had the red flowers been
absent she would have looked like a vestal
virgin, or Norma ere she was wooed and won
and undone. Even the red flowers in Jane's
breast and hair had something earnest in their
depth of colour  something of the solemnity of
a sunset. The hue recalled the words, ' angry
and brave,' which George Herbert applied toit.
Jane was not angry, but she was brave
with a good and true woman's courage not to
fail in what was required of her  to be just,
generous, magnanimous in whatever trial she
had to encounter and overcome.

Jane's toilet was so soon made that her
mother  with no tremor shaking her from a
presentiment of who was at Newton  coming
to help to dress her daughter, and bringing her
jewel-cases with her in order to ask Jane to
choose what she liked best among their contents,
was disappointed to find herself too late.
I am all ready, mother, thank you ; but I
think I am better without ornaments. They

don't suit this dress ; you see I have these
flowers, and jewels would not harmonise with
the flowers, as Susie would tell you if she were
here. We may safely leave jewels to her ; we
may be sure she will have enough.'

Mrs. Prior hesitated. Then she went on,
with Tommy waddling at her heels as if he,
too, had an interest in the toilets. In spite
of his canine sagacity Tommy, as well as his
mistress, remained profoundly unconscious of
whose footsteps were sounding fitfully in the
near distance. The mistress of the house,
with her velvet-lined morocco cases still in her
hand, knocked at Miss Gray's door, and was
admitted gladly and gratefully. Bennet had
committed the extravagance of having a dress
from town. The gown was not sufficiently
line to attract attention ; it was not so choice
as the delicate plush at which she had gazed
ruefully on the evening of her arrival at
Eedcot. Still the creation did its artiste
credit. It was a charming lacy, feathery.

peachy-coloured composition, in which the
fresh youthful bloom of the wearer was set
off to perfection.

The moment Mrs. Prior entered, she cried
out with delight, ' What a pretty dress, my
dear ! I suppose I must not say how .pretty
you look in it, but it is true, nevertheless,'
while Tommy sniffed his approbation.

I am so happy you like it,' said Bennet,
looking happy indeed. ' It is so nice to have
you look at it and praise it. It is so kind
of you to come up. I was just wondering
whether I might go down and show myself,
though I am afraid I am not worth looking at,
and we shall' all be terribly outshone to-night
by Mrs. Crabtree. Ah ! here is Tommy come
to pay me a visit and see what I am like in a
ball-dress. He has no nurse to carry him off
to bed like poor Ally ; as for Tom and Sam
they have been sleeping like tops for a couple
of hours. What, begging, sir! Is it water .
Ko, I am afraid it is chocolate. I must give

him one, just one, Mrs. Prior, when he has
mounted the stairs to call on me.'

You are too good to him. I am afraid he
is a little greedy, poor old fellow  he has so
few pleasures now ; but you will spoil your
pretty, dress if you kneel down on it,'
said Mrs. Prior, shaking her head, but very
open by force of contrast to the delicate
attention to Tommy. She hesitated a little,
struggling with her constitutional shyness ;
which always became conspicuous when she
proposed to confer a favour. She opened a
little nervously the jewel cases, exposing their
not very extensive contents. ' I have been
wondering whether I have anything which
you are without that you would care to
wear,' she said. 'Jane has refused the loan,
but you may like something here, though I am
afraid the sets are all old-fashioned.'

Bennet did not so much draw back as
shrink back.

Oh, no,' she cried, with a gasp and flush

of shame aud distress. ' I cannot take anything
of yours  I could not bear to wear it.'

Of course there is no occasion for it, if you
do not like it,' Mrs. Prior acquiesced hastily,
evidently hurt by the refusal and the manner
in which the refusal was given. ' I know
some people do not care to appear in borrowed
plumes,' the elder woman went on,
with a forced laugh to get rid of the awkwardness
; 'but I had already offered these to my
daughter,' Mrs. Prior added the next instant,
feeling compelled to defend herself, ' so that
there need not have been any thought of
offence.'

I am not offended ; if you will believe
me, I never was further from being offended.
Don't misunderstand me, dear Mrs. Prior,'
implored Bennet, in her agitation. ' It is
not that. Do you suppose I should not be
proud to wear anything of yours  your old
slippers, if they would go on my feet. It
was only because I thought you might
VOL. II. I

regret  you might accuse me of having
taken advantage '

Miss Gray stopped, unable to say anymore.


Mrs. Prior's brow cleared at once. She
imagined Miss Gray hinted at Mr. Crab tree's
attentions and at the probability that the
Priors might not approve of them.

No, indeed,' she said with kind emphasis,
you may depend upon it I shall never
regret lending you anything of mine or
accuse you of taking advantage of that or
of any other small mark of my regard I
have ever given you. I wish you to make
the best of everything. I desire your
happiness above all things  almost as if you
belonged to me, and I am not without the
hope of being permitted to witness it.'

Bennet was mystified now, and stood
staring with lips apart and breast heaving.
Could Mrs. Prior have learnt the truth .?
Had Jack written to his mother . Was

this lier wav  modest and tender it was sure
to be  of granting her forgiveness and
bestowing her blessing ?

For a moment it hung in the balance
whether Bennet would not act on the strong
impulse which had laid hold on her ; whether
she would not steal her arms round Mrs.
Prior's neck, and with hidden face appeal
to her as ' mother '  Jack's mother, who
was already in her good motherliness
replacing the mother whom Bennet had lost
when a child ?

But too much was at stake to be risked
on an impulse, and before it was fully
entertained the sudden flash of hope had
faded. Mrs. Prior, in place of waiting as
might have been expected for such a movement,
was already turning away from Bennet,
and placidly examining the cases she held.

Now, which shall it be ? ' she proceeded
calmly, as she lifted up article after article.
This cross or one of the reckless or a

I 2

bracelet? The whole set might be conspicuous,
but do you fancy any of these? Young
ladies don't wear brooches nowadays, but I
used to be fond of this heart,' holding up a
little gold heart transfixed by an arrow, ' and
it might fasten one of these knots of riband or
sprays of white blossom.'

'Yes, if you will be so good  the little
brooch,' murmured Bennet, not recovered from
her burst of feeling.

'It was John Prior's first gift to me,' said
Mrs. Prior, looking at the trinket with pensive
interest as she prepared to fasten the pin in
Bennet's dress.

Then please don't put it in,' objected
Bennet in renewed trouble. ' It is far too
precious. I would rather not have the
responsibility.'

Nonsense ! ' said Mrs. Prior, shaking off
her pensiveness as she persisted in fastening
the brooch. ' There, it is quite secure. I do
not remember its coming loose once. It is nota

bad omen  we must all expect failures
and shortcomings  but the sign of the truelove
of an honest man can never be a bad
omen.'

Bennet only looked the sweeter because of
that perplexing passage of arms between her
and Mrs. Prior before the girls started.
Bennet's fluttering heart lent a softness to
her whole aspect. The charm which old-fashioned
writers were fond of descanting on
under the term ' sensibility ' was in her varying
colour, her eyes, more frequently cast down
than usual, the tender curves of her lips. Her
heart felt very warm beneath the quaint little
brooch which had been John Prior's first gift
to his love, and under the locket which had
been another John Prior's first gift to his love.
Surely the two gifts were well met on that
kindly bosom. Nobody looking at Bennet
Gray that night could fail to see that she was a
very happy, very lovely girl, and that there was
a meaning in her happiness and loveliness  the

meaning which constitutes a woman's earthly
bliss.

But Bennet was not the queen of the
Newton Volunteer Ball. What she had
said proved true. Susie far outshone all
rivals. Any person in search of mere beauty
would not look twice at another woman when
Mrs. Lambert Crabtree was by. Iay, there
was more than beauty in Susie on this occasion.
There was an indefinable fascination as she
stood near the door of the room receiving
her guests unsupported by a foil in the shape
of her big red-faced husband, but eagerly
backed by every man in his troop, to which
she was doing honour. She outshone herself
to-night. It was not in her dainty, exquisite
Titania size, or in her glowing beauty, beside
which every other woman appeared colourless
and insipid. It was not in her cooing, caressing
ways, alternating with the summer lightning
of her playful wit and malice. It was not in
her magnificent dress, which everybody who

did not pronounce it glorious, called utterly
absurd for a volunteer ball. To be particular,
Susie wore a gown which had some of the
burning glory of fire in its rich nasturtium
colour, toned down, as in the flower, by depths
of brown. Instead of short sleeves, the white
arms were only encircled below the shoulders
by long trailing wreaths of orange and brown
nasturtium flowers, with their cool, round
green leaves. In opposition to Jane's theory,
Susie's neck and wrists were glittering with
jewels, before which Mrs. Prior's modest sets
would have sunk into utter insignificance
Susie's very hair was powdered with diamond
dust, so that every time she turned her shapely
head a thousand tiny sparkles came into play.
But it was not in her dress any more than in
her grace and beauty. It was more in the
bearing  a certain imperious challenge and
triumph of defiance  a faint reflection of what
dazzled and blinded old corrupt civilisations
and barbarous tribes in the beautified, sleek

traitresses and human tigresses of history
and myth. The unholy spell arrested and held
fast the spectators, who did not pause to analyse
the secret, from which they would most
of them have recoiled if they had suspected its
nature. But they contented themselves with
saying there never was such a wonderful little
woman as Mrs. Lambert Crabtree.

Even Lambert Crabtree, though he must
have been tolerably used to his wife's fascinations
by this time, showed himself anew
impressed by them, as he came in close upon
supper for his brief stay. He loomed immense
in his volunteer's uniform, in spite of the fact
that uniforms have long been at a discount ina
ball-room. His large, light goggle eyes were
lit up with admiration when they fell upon the
entrancing vision. He went up to his wife's
side, and spoke for her ear alone. ' You are in
high feather to-night ; that's right. You are a
beauty and no mistake, Sue, and, what is better,
you are a brick.'

Do you think so ? ' she asked, sharply, as
if the lateness of this arrival or something in his
speech provoked her. She turned a white
shoulder to him, and spoke over it  ' What I
am I owe to you. Lamb.' But there was no
gratitude in her voice ; for the second time it
was hard and cold, and cutting like a knife.

To Bennet's surprise Jane Prior danced a
great deal in a somewhat stately, steady, grave
way, as if she were going through with a duty
she was bound to perform. Her popularity was
not entirely personal ; she was the hostess's
sister  she was a Prior of Eedcot, the last unmarried
daughter ; but there was no doubt that
Jane also made an impression as a fine-looking
girl, when it came to that, with a repose about
her which Susie, in her brilliance, lacked. And
Jane did not seem to desire to shirk her obligations.
She was very often on the floor, the
consequence being that she could not interfere
with the arrangements of the sitters.

Bennet did not dance nearly so often, though

she might have had plenty of introductions.
Her remaining seated frequently was not due
to her being a stranger, but to her being commonly
attended by Mat Crabtree He did not
dance with her, or with anybody else for that
matter, thus showing a due sense of his weight
of years. But he betrayed a considerable inclination
to drop into the seat next to Miss
Gray and talk to her. If his sister-in-law had
found leisure to think over the matter, it might
have struck her as fully more compromising
than dancing once or twice with the young
lady, nay, or even than taking her in to supper
which, in fact, he summed up the impropriety
of his behaviour by doing.

What might have been looked for under the
circumstances happened. Many comments were
made on the conspicuous association of the
couple, and on the rumour of a marriage on the
tapis between Mr. Crabtree of Haybridge and
the beautiful governess at Redcot who had been
so injudiciously brought forward by Jane Prior.

A stick to break her own head,' some
cynical tongues quoted.

The notice which Mr. Crabtree and Miss
Gray drew down upon them culminated at the
moment when the two were standing together
apart from others, but certainly not aware thai
they were the observed of all observers, looking
at some conservatory flowers which had been
brought to do duty among the evergreens at
the head of the room. The pair lingered as if
they were counting the petals of the camellias
and the leaves of the pelargoniums. The proposal
which Mrs. Lambert Crabtree had relegated
to the dignified shades of academic
groves might have been made and accepted
in the presence of hundreds, amidst the
convenient blare of the volunteer band. So
eagerly did the gentleman talk, so animated,
yet so moved did the lady show herself 
now speaking a few necessary words, now
looking up in the still handsome, mature face
bending over her, now glancing away among

the ranks of the dancers, with shilling, softened
eyes.

If any lady had been near enough to have
heard the conversation between Mat Crabtree
and Bennet Gray, the reality and the supposition
did not quite correspond. Mat was saying
emphatically, * In what request Jane Prior is
to-ni<2fht ! That is risht.'

She is looking very well,' Bennet had answered,
with hearty satisfaction.

Yes,' he had resumed with fervour, ' and it
is good for her to meet her kind, and have her
play. Why not ? She is as handsome a girl
as any of them  handsomer, to my mind, since
she does not care about it. But her looks are
not the best of her. I have known her since
lie was not much older than her niece Molly,
and a more sterling soul never breathed  the
daylight is not more transparent. But too
much work is good for no man or woman
either ; Jane takes everything au grand serieux
which makes me fe.ir for her chances in this

examination  for her chances in everything.
But we must think for lier, take care of her,
and see that she does herself justice. Eh, Miss
Gray ? '

Yes, indeed, Mr. Crabtree,' acquiesced
Bennet cordially, but still a little mechanically
and absently. For a new light was dawning
upon her as she saw and heard more of his
interest in the subject than he had any idea
that he was exhibiting, or than he perhaps acknowledged,
even to himself.

She was trying to read between the lines an
open secret which was filling her with surprise,
joy, and indignation at her own stupidity. Dear
wise Jane, who had been so good to her ! And
he was worthy of her, and Jack and everybody
at Eedcot would be pleased. Bennet had great
difficulty in restraining herself, and answering as
if she suspected nothing. No wonder the lustre
of her eyes was getting always brighter and
brighter, and she became more and more conspicuously
invested with an atmosphere of

glad content, which was yet wistful in its
fulness.

At the main door, mingling with the
humbler, more bashful volunteers, was a small,
rather motley crowed made up of townspeople,
commercial travellers, and servants who could
be spared from the neighbouring inn, standing
lounging and looking in at the fine sight. There
was a certain element of confusion and a shifting
character about these outstanding groups,
which rendered it possible that an intruder in
the throng, a comparative stranger, and a secret
spy, might pass muster and escape detection, if
not absolutely, at least to a great extent. There
was a young man in that unpleasant indefensible
position, with a rough coat buttoned upto
his ears and a travelling cap drawn down to
his eyes, much as he had worn them the previous
evening. He stood where he could see
into the hall, while he kept himself as well back
from observation as he could contrive. He
watched a girl whom he had known intimately

at a previous stage of her history, though he
had not seen her for many months. He had
never beheld her in this guise  this softly gay
peach-blossom gown delicately flowing, daintily
trimmed, implying to him something far costlier
than the reality  with the white flowers in her
hair. It formed a whole very different from
the demure schoolroom costume, or even the
quiet economic holiday clothes of the schoolmistress
abroad. This was a change which, as
it seemed to him, only one justification  the
speedy termination of the days of bondage 
could warrant. He had seen her face wear an
expression akin to that it wore at this moment,
for a false woman's face can take the look it
should bear only for one, and hold it up to
every new-comer who plays the same part.
But never had he beheld the open brow so
unruffled, the eyes so clear, the mouth so peaceful
 though the hips trembled a little with subdued
feeling in the middle of the brightness of
their smile. Before, when he had seen that face

happy, it had still been clouded with a lurking
doubt, a haunting trouble, a shade of fear 
even of forced condemnation  together with a
determined struggle to do right, at whatever
cost, warring with the sweet, tumultuous happiness.
The woman was certain of her happiness
at this moment. She had acquired some later
good, which caused her to cast care to the
winds. Her mind, her conscience  strange as
it seemed  were both at rest. Whoever broke
in upon her recently won satisfaction, and
startled her by an inopportune presence which
she did not expect, would scatter her hopes,
shatter her prospects, and do her a wrong
which she would never forgive.

Do you see that pair that ain't dancing, but
have been looking at the flowers for the last ten
minutes ? It don't want a prophet to tell what
they're talking about,' said one observer, with a
well worked vein of jocularity, to another.
Everybody is crying out that will be a match,
and they ain't so ill-suited neither when one

looks twice. They're regular strappers, both of
them. Crabtree of Haybridge is a bit up in
years, to be sure, but, bless you ! that ain't
nothing when he carries them as lightly as he
do, and is a fine man to this day, and will befor
a many to come  a deal finer than most
lads half his age. Give me a man as is in his
prime, says I, and then you sees the best and
the worst of him till he begin to grow down
instead of up. Many a comely youngster is as
coarse as a cow-feeder before he's a greybeard.
Crabtree of Haybridge is a good sort too  all
that has to do with him swears he ain't a
slippery customer  whoever else may be. It's
great promotion for her that is only the
governess at Eedcot ; but she's a bonnie lass as
ever stepped. There ain't a handsomer in the
room, barring the banker's little lady, and she's
beyond compare.'

Another person than the one intended to
receive the gossip who had been wedged into
a corner so that he could not, though he would,
VOL. II. K

have avoided hearing every word which was
not meant for his ear, now, by a considerable
effort, shouldered his way out, and descended
the stair to reach the street.

Hang it ! Couldn't he have stayed where
he was ? ' cried a third looker-on, whose equanimity
was disturbed and his toes trampled
on.

I'm blowed if it ain't young Prior, of Eed-
cot,' protested a fourth, incredulously. ' Him
that was in disgrace with the squire, his father,
and went to furrin' parts a year agone. What
the dickens is he seeking, back so soon, and
standing out here glowering like a cat at his
kind? Why, the Colonel and his lady  the
givers of this here ball  are own brother and
sister to young Prior.'

'Which is thundering strong proof that
you're mistaken in your man, Charlie,' the
first speaker tried to put the last down.

Jack Prior, hard hit, dazed, and dumb-founded,
kept telling himself that seeing was

believing, that no sane man could or should
distrust the evidence of his senses. He
stumbled back to the Bank House, deserted
by all but its compulsory keepers, wandered
through its vacant rooms, and refused supper.
He was worn out with wretchedness, and
sensible only that in his present frame of
mind he could not endure another encounter
with Susie. She would return from the ball,
and bring him confirmation of the fact he
had ascertained for himself. He could not
stand it  not just yet  so he retired to his
room, and there brooded over the maddening
enlightenment of this night and the night
before, and sought to crack a nut which he
found cruelly hard.

Bennet Gray, of all women  Bennet, in
whom he had placed implicit faith, to whom
he had looked up as to a guardian angel, who
had sent him on the very voyage to Australia
which was likely to cost him dear  had taken
advantage of his absence to steal a march

K 2

upon him, and throw him over for the first
available suitor who presented himself. She
had come to Eedcot, of all places, to do it,
and chosen a man who was an old friend
connected with Jack by family ties, so that
unless he abjured his former relations he could
not escape constant association with the husband
and wife. It was like seething a kid in
its mother's milk. It was being heartless far
beyond the ordinary range of women's heartlessness.


What had brought Bennet to Eedcot in the
first place  whether it was a mere accident 
an answer to an application through an agency
a chance recommendation presenting a
temptation that had proved irresistible (which
was virtually the truth), he could not tell.
But, after she was at Eedcot, the opportunity
of seeing the poverty of the land, and of
becoming acquainted with Mat Crabtree, in
conjunction with the hateful material provided
by the innate fickleness of a nature for whose

sincerity and loyalty Jack Prior would have
stood up against the whole world, rendered
the explanation comparatively easy. Such
occurrences as preferring a rich suitor to a
poor one happen, if not so brazenly everyday,
at least with sufficient frequency to entitle
men to say that they have been since the world
began, and will be to the end.

Jack was half distracted and entirely
forlorn, but sleeplessness is not apt to belong
the portion of the young and healthy,
however sorely tested. He had tumbled about
three fourths of the time wide awake last
night, he lost consciousness now until he awoke
from one disturbed dream, to believe himself
the victim of another, with its incidents happening
there in the very room in which he
lay. He imagined he opened his eyes and saw
Susie in such a white dressing-gown as he had
known her use, but with her hair still the
same as she had worn it at the ball. Only
in the clear, silvery light of early morning.

when the sunbeams are not golden, but have
something of the whiteness of moonbeams, the
diamond dust had ceased to sparkle, and
looked more as if it were a powdering of
ashes over the dark hair. There were two
burning red spots on her cheeks, her whole
face was keen and sharp-set, and her eyes
were opened wide and staring wildly, like
a creature in desperation and terror. She
walked quickly yet so noiselessly into the
room that he at once guessed she had left
her high-heeled slippers behind her. But he
was not prepared for what he saw when he
glanced down on the floor, that the little feet
which moved so fleetly and lightly, gripping
the ground with hardly a perception of noise,
were bare. She went straight to the toilet
table, and appeared to fumble at the stand of
the mirror.

Susie ! ' cried Jack in a voice half-subdued
by surprise and by a nameless creeping fear,
as if this presence of his sister were indeed a

bodiless ghost. He sat bolt upright in bed,
and asked himself with an effort of thought
whether it was a waking dream on his part
or a case of sleep-walking on hers. Waking
or sleeping, she heard him in an instant, and
her face showed an agony of consternation,
though she did not give him an immediate
answer. Instead, she instinctively held up
her hands and made a warning gesture with
them, as if she were pushing him away and
imploring him to lie down again and keep
silence. Then he thought he heard her murmur
 ' Hush ! hush ! Jack. For mercy's sake,
be quiet.' The next instant she was gone as
she had come. Jack roused himself thoroughly,
got up and opened the door, but there was
nobody in the corridor, which had a western
aspect, and looked shadowy and chill. He
could hear a little sound in the house as of
servants stirring, which presently died away.
He came back and walked to the toilet-table,
where the figure which had seemed Susie had

stood. But everything was unchanged and ashe
had left it the night before.

Jack Prior told himself the untoward
events of the last forty-eight hours had been
too much for a fellow; they were going to
his head and distempering his mind. He had
been dreaming, and had been unable to
separate his dream from the reality. He lay
down again, and tried to compose himself
afresh and take refuge in sleep. At last he
succeeded, and awoke in full sunshine. It was
still early, but he must start if he meant to
reach the familiar junction on the line from
which he would get a train that ought to reach
Oxford in the middle of the day. He was
feverishly restless ; he must do something, and
he was still bent, not on having a word with
Jane, as he had said, but on seeing lier again
on confronting her, though it were for the
last time, and giving her a taste of what her
work was likely to be. Before he had dressed
and gone downstairs, the servants were about.

but he would not make himself late by waiting
for breakfast, which he could have in the
refreshment-room at the station. He contented
himself with leaving a message for Mrs. Crab-tree,
and went.

CHAPTEE yil.

OXFORD WITH ESCORTS SEEN AND UNSEEN.

Jane Prior and Bennet Gray were, as might
have been supposed, charmed with Oxford.
They had been there on visits and sight-seeing
expeditions before, but the city of Alfred
and Wolsey, Wycliffe and Cranmer, does not
easily exhaust the admiration of its pilgrims.
This visit was paid at the most desirable
season. It was close upon the summer glory
of Commemoration, but May had not ended,
and the men generally  not the freshmen alone
were still up, crowding the streets. With
pale scholars in cap and gown ? By no means ;
with sunburnt, ruddy, muscular youths, in
every picturesque variety of cricketing and

boating costume, taking their pleasure withall
their might. The scholarly element was
left largely to the dons, whose winged black
gowns and trencher hats  relics of the monk's
frock and hood, adapted for tutor and professor
 contrasted broadly with the white
flannels and striped jerseys and caps showing
the colours and badges of the different colleges,
worn jauntily by the favoured lads. At them
the accumulated learning of centuries was
launched, they met and assimilated it, or turned
it aside with consummate coolness and carelessness.


The great" old trees in St. Giles's and in the
college gardens were in full foliage without
having lost the early flush  free from sombreness
 of their summer green. The giant
historia on St. Edmund's Hall was covered
with clusters of delicate lilac blossoms like
paler grapes. In other quadrangles and
cloisters the grey walls, massive pillars, and
deep door ways were set in green, in vine

leaves and Virginian creeper, in budding
flowers of clematis and jessamine. Many a
quaint or stately mullions window began to
blossom over with roses red and white, with
the scarlet and gold and purple and blue of
geranium and cancellaria, heliotrope and lobelia,
built up in fragrant piles, to do honour to the
undergraduates' festival. Then they welcome
their friends from far and near, and old Oxford
for a week holds its carnival, and is gay and
gallant as Some taking its fling before the
austerities of Lent.

The thrushes, which love Oxford, abide
patiently and sing a mellow song, braving the
raw, harsh winds of the early spring, had not
wholly ceased their note. It was not yet
eclipsed by the Quid cadences of the nightingale,
buried in the shade of the most retired
and exclusive of college gardens, or, with
human-like inconsistency, away out by the
common high roads, indifferent to the white
dust of ordinary traffic lying thick on the

hedgerows. In the Broad Walk the huge
elms formed an aisle grander than any cathedral
on earth can show. The Founder's Tower
of Magdalen looked down on the hoary Grove
grown young again, and the deer in the park
tossing their new antlers.

The meadows and the river banks had not
done with their yellow cowslips and dusky
fritillaries when the creamy foam of the
hawthorn, rose-red in the parks and gardens,
hung over the water. But the meadows and
twin rivers were by no means left to the
wild flowers  no, nor to what fish had stout
enough hearts to abide in the pools, nor to
the shy kingfisher lingering by the higher
reaches of the Isis and the Chigwell. The
favourite resort of the city of students, was
alive from morning till night with crews
practising for the Eights, solitary men and
lads rowing and paddling for their private
solace, family parties, and gay gatherings of
friends bound for Mey and Godstowe.

Yet none of these things were the real
Oxford. They were pleasant enough touches,
but they might be found elsewhere. The very
historical memories of burnings and sieges and
riots, of martyrs at the stake, of a pale dis-crowned
king, who for many a year bore the
title of Martyr, did not truly represent Oxford.
Neither did the traditions which cluster round
such a place, as parasites cling to forest trees ;
of the scholar of Queen's, who, with no better
help than an ' Aristotle,' slew the wild boar in
Shottover Forest ; of Amy Hobart ' slain ' or
murdered ' at Cumnor Hall, and buried instate
in St. Mary's Church ; of Lady Isabella
Thynne tripping along the flagged pathways
before she met her own ghost in broad day ; of
'Sarah Marlborough' driving in from Blenheim
after a hot dispute with Sir John, its builder
all these did not make Oxford. Neither
did lighter-hearted annals of masks, revels,
and royal progresses. Queen Bess in her pride
of maidenhood, King George and Queen

Charlotte, patterns of conjugal felicity ; Queen
Victoria and her royal wedded lover. History
and legend belonged as freely to other places,
and might be found to flourish as abundantly
wherever an ancient building reared its moss-grown,
ivy-shrouded walls.

But there were special attractions in which
Oxford was unique. There scholarship had
reigned while Time had been unfolding her
long roll. There, among all the dry dust of
technical attainments and martinet cleverness ;
among drowsy sinecure ships droning out their
existence, constantly opposing all progress,
among arrogant flippant trifling with high
issues, Oxford had still vindicated her existence
by a deep under-current of learning pure and
simple. In her noble halls, quiet rooms, and
tranquil walks, which men in times ruder and
more ringing with strife than our own, provided
in munificent reverence for knowledge  knowledge
had still had its chance and its day.
Leaders of the people in Parliament, at the bar,

ill the Church, as heads of great schools, as
governors of men everywhere, had spent the
momentous period between youth and manhood
in keeping their terms at Oxford as at
her sister Cambridge, and in drinking to their
fill of that stream, ever broadening and deepening,
of human wit and wisdom, achievement and
discovery. Still more was possible. A man
could come a raw lad under the shadow of the
towers which group themselves amidst the very
type of English landscape  in its rich pastures
and woodlands  never cease to feel the spell,
and die grey-headed to the sound of the mellow
bells which are among the glories of Oxford.
Such a man would fight the good fight of light
against darkness, truth against error, lead a
modest and laborious life, heap up fresh stores
of thought  the precursor of trustworthy action
or sift the wheat from the chafe" of other
men's convictions, and die leaving the world
wiser and stronger, better and braver for the
scholar's life

Jane Prior was carried away by this view
of Oxford. She had done her dancing coldly
if indefatigably at the ball the night before.
But the refined pomp of schools did not so
nnich take her breath away as take her out of
herself. She forgot the very object for which
she was there. She ceased to consider with
irksome pertinacity the hard-headed arguments
as to demand and supply, and the good of the
many dominating the needs of the few, or the
more abstract questions of mind and matter
with which her thoughts had been busy lately.
She actually lost sight of some womanly
considerations" which, however insignificantly
personal, unacknowledged, and kept in the
background, had still served as a stern rule for
her conduct since a certain spring day. In her
exaltation she failed to remember Mat Crabtree
had i:iven the world reason to believe that he
and Miss Gray belonged to each other, and
ought to be told ofi" to share everything they
cared for in common. Engrossed by the into.
II. L

influences which had such a strong hold on Jane
Prior, she walked between Mat Crabtree and
Miss Gray, or sometimes went on before with
him, leaving Bennet to follow.

Happily, both of her companions enjoyed
exceedingly seeing Jane so enthralled and
enthusiastic. They were more or less affected
in the same fashion, particularly Mr. Crabtree.
He loved Oxford as a son who had spent some
of his happiest days and won distinction he
could not help continuing to prize, within her
bounds. He held up his head and looked
about on well-known land-marks with filial
pride, and breathed the air with long breaths,
as if it was native to him. He grew elated and
enthusiastic in his turn. He expatiated eagerly
and unweariedly on the lines of study followed
and the victories won in this or that college.
He would show his companions where Shelley
had written his ' Queen Mab.' He would take
them to Oriel, and let them see where Lately,
Arnold, and Keble had sat when they were

chums. He, Mat Crabtree, would point out
the window from which Bishop Heber looked
when he was a lad composing his poem of
Palestine,' to win the Newgate. The same
eager lioniser could carry his friends to Christ
Church, to the quarters of two of the ' Jews,'
who were afterwards, as Marquis of Dalhousie
and Earl ot Elgin, Governors General of India.
Mat Crabtree was acquainted with what had
been Newman's retreat before he took restore
in a Woman Catholic oratory, and Pusey's
corner when he wrote in the Bodleian. Mat
even yearned to have the chance of letting the
women see some of the living men worth looking
at, for there never had been a day when
Oxford was without celebrities of European
reputation.

Above all. Mat Crabtree would ask the girls
to do him the honour of going with him to his
own college, where he had still cronies to whom
he must introduce the ladies.

Jane had seen some of Mat Crabtree s

L 2

haunts and heroes before, but she was bent on
seeing them again, as he was bent on showing
them. The two most concerned were as eager
to accomplish all that was possible in the long
light hours of a summer's day as if they had
been boy and girl visiting Oxford for the first
time. To-morrow, the day before the examination,
would be time enough to think of work.
To-day was for play  to recruit from the
fatigues of the journey  to soothe the candidates'
nerves.

And Bennet, standing a little apart, kept
smiling benignly to herself and down upon
Jane Prior, who was in general so much the
more sedate woman of the two, and on Mat
Crabtree, old enough to be their father, as if
she  Bennet  had been their guardian angel.

So, in accordance with their professions, the
little party proceeded to recruit their strength
after a three or four hours' journey, and to
refresh their jaded minds after a prolonged
course of study, by snatching a hasty lunch at

Boffin's. The new-comers wandered here and
there while they discussed by the way academic
problems, fragments of ancient misty philosophies,
verses full of the wild colossal woes,
and the vanished hopes and beliefs, sombre and
dim, alternating with the cynical joviality of
earlier civilisations. The group regarded the
dark front of the old Schools, and entered the
great square of the Bodleian with profound
satisfaction, not unmingled with awe to this
day, when the Latin inscriptions were no longer
in a dead language to the readers. They
spared a glance to the Theodosian, still retaining
the echoes of speeches and essays and
boyish clamour, and to the Radcliffe where
demure silence prevailed. They went along
picturesque streets and lanes flanked by college
walls, where every house differed from its fellow
and some bits seemed stolen from Bruges or
Ghent. Into halls and chapels innumerable 
unable to refrain from straying once more into
Wolsey's princely hall  and hitting the hours

of service at those chapels where the most
melodious organ and the most exquisitely
trained choir piped and chanted evensong.
Down to the river which was in a state of
ecstatic commotion, where Mat Crabtree, deserting
his friends, hailed each barge and boat.
He was in danger of forgetting more flagrantly
than ever not only the dignity but the weight
of his years in order to shout himself hoarse
with the most energetic of coaches and run
himself lame with the most reckless of freshmen.
For had he not coached and been
coached, rowed, given bumps and been
bumped, and run himself off his legs in his day
with the best? Back as far as Waltham's
and St. John's under the sinking sun, with
slowing feet and aching eyes, to watch the
long shadows from the wide cedars and tall
elms on the velvet turf of two glorious college
gardens.

The apartments hired for Jane and Bennet,
the same that had been occupied in turn by

Mat Crabtree and Jack Prior, after their terms
of residence in their colleges were ended, were
almost opposite to St. John's. To Bennet's
gratification they were in just such a yellow
house, with gables to the street, cornices to the
different storeys, a broad stone canopy to the
door, and primitive windows, as might have
been found in Howell. Nearly in front of
these was the older portion of St. John's, where
Bishop Juxon had ruled and Laud's crozier was
preserved. Lower down rose the tower of the
Martyrs' Monument, with its effigies, in ruff" and
gown, of Cranmer, Latimer, and Ridley  close
to Dovorgilla's tribute to Balliol  the college
beloved of Scotch and Yorkshire men. Beyond,
half hidden by the elm trees which line the
road, the little grey church of St. Mary Magdalen
barred farther view. Directly opposite
the windows was a salmon-tinted house, with
one wing built over a wide entry ; beside it a
scarred, battered, balustrade house, called
attention to its venerable antiquity, and blinked

in grim disdain across some intervening buildings
at a Queen Anne or earlier Georgian
mansion, with its tall pillared gateway, flight
of broad easy steps, and long French windows.
The judges were wont to occupy that house
when" the assizes were in Oxford, and vulgar
substantial crimes cropped up brutally as topics
of the hour among the fine traditions of intellectual
subtlety. Another tree-girdled grey
church, with its low tower  St. Giles's  once in
the fields, closed the parallel vista. It was all
wonderful, esoteric, Oxfordish, pertaining a
little on the surface to blue china, peacocks*
feathers, and the French renaissance, but at the
core stately and refined.

As Bennet tried to take the prospect in, a
party of roving sailors, with their round caps,
blue collars, bare throats, and bronzed faces,
came swinging in rollicking style up the street,
bringing with them a flavour of the salt sea, of
the shrill whistling wind in the rigging and
shrouds of ships, in foreign harbours, of wastes

of water, storms and wrecks, and lives of action
and adventure. The group and their associations
came with the force of a strong contrast,
as far removed from the prevailing tone of
Oxford as were the rude figures in the assize
calendar. But the very depth and breadth of
the contrast only served to bring out in more
delicate relief the essential features of the
place.

Mat Crabtree went away with a friend to
dine in his college, and left the women to well-earned
rest. But they could not rest ; Jane
wandered about the room, staring at bookcase,
writing-table, and mantelpiece, which had served
generations of undergraduates. In her mind
they bore reference to no more than two  her
brother Jack, who had been idle and foolish,
and failed to take his degree here, and Mat
Crabtree, who a quarter of a century before
had worked hard and won honour within these
walls.

Bennet sat at one of the windows, and

looked out till the fleeting crimson of the
western sky faded to pale rose, to nankin,
to primrose, to faintest green, to full blue.
She pursued a train of thought not altogether
dissimilar. His rooms, to which his foot had
mounted lightly hundreds of times, where he
had stored away his bat and fencing foil and
skates in winter  where he had Tommy down
to visit him. Fancy Tommy perambulating the
streets of classic Oxford, seated ruefully, collared
and chained, in a porter's lodge, superciliously
sniffed at by fussy young fox-terriers, haughty
mastiffs, and dour bull-dogs, and taken down
to bathe in the Chigwell ! Here Jack had
written his letters home to his mother.
Here he could not have studied much, she,
Bennet, must admit that. But she had no
doubt he had thought the better, manlier,
higher thoughts which must have come to him,
made repentant resolutions  doomed to be
broken in the overwhelming tide of temptation,
formed in vain some of those good resolutions

which pave comfortably many a downward
road.

But it was not for her to blame him, or if
it was for her she could not do it. She had
never done it very effectually. She could doit
least of all in the old room where he must
have suffered sharp pangs of regret and shame,
foreign to his cheery, sanguine temper, when
his wasted college course came to an end, and
he had to face his failure, his difficulties, his
father's keen disappointment. Yet in spite of
it all, she could not have loved him better
though he had been as learned as Casaubon
and as wise as King Solomon, who had never
gone to college and played when he ought to
have worked. It might not be the most
sternly lofty moral ; still, could there be a
higher than that of love, open-eyed, not blind,
merciful, and tender as yon great canopy of
blue sky, folding all in its embrace, true as
steel that has been tempered in the fire ?

And it was over. He was coming home

to make up for everything. And what would
he think when he heard that she had been
here staying in his very rooms, looking from
the window, out of which he had leant, doubtless,
smoking and chaffing other undergraduates
as gay, thoughtless, idle, and lovable as Jack
himself? Oh ! Jack, dear, sweet-tempered,
generous, facile Jack, he will learn to do himself
and his friends credit at last.

Patter, patter, went the continuous tread of
feet beneath the window of the yellow house in
St. Giles's. But after the twilight had passed
into dusk one footstep came and went, went
and came, backwards and forwards, in regular
fall, again and again. Bennet did not dream of
rising and looking out. Why should she?
How could she connect the heavy step which
never came nearer with the light one entering
and mounting the stairs at a rush, without
fear or doubt, as she had pictured it to herself
a few minutes ago ?

Jack Prior came to another Oxford than

that which his friends had found. He had
neglected to calculate on a probable change
in the trains, and so had arrived much later
in the day than he had counted on. He took
it for granted that the party would be out,
and he dared not go in their absence to his old
lodgings, where his landlady would recognise
him and announce his arrival before he could
make the unexpected entrance he had proposed.
He could only lurk and dodge about as he had
done last night at the door of the Volunteer
Hall, and catch glimpses, or only fancy he
caught glimpses, which caused his heart to
thump violently, of the trio for whom he was
looking. Oxford was full towards the close of
the last term, and seen at a distance there was
more than one big man  not in gown and cap,
but in a rustically, well-bred morning suit of a
squires cut  escorting ladies. It was easy to
guess they had come betimes to do honour to
some lad's triumph, or to revisit on the man's
account the scenes of his early struggles and

victories, that the often-mentioned localities
might be exhibited to his daughters or his
nieces, or his young wife and one of her
friends. The tableau they presented was a
very familiar one in the gathering before the
great dispersal. For heads of colleges, tutors,
and professors of every degree, with their
womenkind and children  unencumbered
Fellows in the pensive rather than hilarious
ease of their single blessedness  reading parties
as full of frolic as of application to business,
were on the eve of the longest of the perpetua
holidays to which studious Oxford
is prone, whether the flight be to mountain or
moor, or seaboard, across the Channel, or
across the Atlantic to the Golden Horn or
the Golden Gate.

Jack had been left to his own company from
the time of his arrival, and he had not relished
the experience. He was thrown back on himself
at the very moment when himself was
most hateful to him. Though this offended

self turned from the Oxford of the past rising
again before his eyes with quick disgust, the
old slang names of street, hall, and college
rose to his lips, the ' Broad ' and the ' High,'
Skimmed ' and ' Teddy's,' and plain ' John,'
with their appropriate people and incidents,
were once more fresh in his mind. How
often he had fled from the proctors. How
many times he had been ' gated ' and sent upto
his dean. How few lectures he had found
tippy.' Of what ' howlers ' he had been
guilty when he went up for his disastrous
examinations. He remembered that he had
been concerned in the blocking up of that
chapel door and in the sticking of a striking
caricature on that superciliously sported oak.
What endless hours he had spent at tennis and
billiards, as well as at football and cricket, in
floating in punts no less than in rowing in his
college boat. He had ridden capital horses
when he ought only to have afforded himself
hacks or to have walked. He had run up

scores of bills which his allowance would not
meet. The life had been pleasant enough at
the tune ; he had meant no harm. He had
not gone farther wrong than was implied in
idleness, and trifling, with the briefest spurts of
repentant diligence. But he could not take the
comfort of the limitation ; he could not call ita
merit when practices, in which some of his
companions indulged, had been simply distasteful,
and, in certain instances, abhorrent to him.
The busy, largely open-air life, including the
means of work, if he chose to work, which
unfortunately had been rarely, with abundant
companionship and numerous engagements, had
been perhaps, as people said, the typical life fora
lad of his age and rank, and had been shared
in by hundreds of fellows no better and no
worse than himself. But, like many things
pleasant at the moment, there had been a
lurking sting in it which pierced on more days
than that on which he was ' bossed ' and left
Oxford without his degree. He had to meet

his father and hear that a university education
had been thrown away on a fool. Money,
which could ill be spared at Eedcot, had been
as good as flung into the fire. He had to confess
that his allowance had not been enough 
make a clean breast of his debts, and see the
expression on his father's face when he wrote
the cheque. It was a case of ' Rejoice,

young man, in thy youth. . . . But ' That

but ' had been fulfilled where he was concerned.
He had seen the payment exacted
in other instances. There was poor Charles,
who had been a plucky, nice enough fellow
when he knew him first, had taken to drink
hopelessly, and was little better than an imbecile
; CUve Lowness had gone to the bad ina
more blackguardly heartless way ; while
Escort, who had been hard-up even in these
early days, had since been accused of so ' dirty '
a racing transaction that he had been forced to
leave the country because no honourable man
would keep company with him. No doubt

VOL. II. M

these were only stray examples of the many
black sheep fed on Oxford pastures. Now it
was his turn ; and it was in the scene of his
follies, possibly in the very rooms where he had
been wont to whistle thought down the wind,
that he was to meet his desert. He did not
know how many similar debts were discharged
in a variety of ways, but discharged in some
sort the obligations must be, for this was the
lane from which there was no turning. It was
in his old rooms at Oxford that Jack was to see
Bennet again. It was there he was to be told
his fate by her after he had travelled far to
make a home for her by his own efforts, according
to her decree. He had been persuaded that
he had succeeded in the first step, and had
hurried back to tell what he had judged
would be his thrice-welcome tale, when she
had a different tale to tell. She had reflected
and weighed the risks, and found them too
great. Mat Crabtree was a man to be depended
on, a man to be proud of at Oxford and elsewhere.

Haybridge was a safe and honourable
home which any woman might be excused for
preferring to a squatter's shanty.

So Jack Prior lashed himself metaphorically,
and did not spare the whip as he paced before
his former lodo'inojs, well into the summer
night, knowing who was within, burning to see
her. Yet not going to her. He had come
there for the purpose of having it out with
Bennet Gray, but when he was close to his goal
his heart sank to such a degree that he put off
the die for a few hours longer. He would
wait till the morning, and then finish the
chapter which he had held to be the key to his
life.

1 2

CHAPTEE will.

THE NEWSPAPER PARAGRAPH WHICH CARRIES MAT
CRABTREE AND JACK PRIOR SIMULTANEOUSLY

TO ST. Giles's.

Mat Crabtree slept that night at the Mitre,
and Jack Prior at the Clarendon. Both men 
though the one was so unreasonably happy
that the old Norse superstition about being
fey ' might have occurred to his well-stored
memory, and the other was profoundly miserable
 did precisely the same thing. Each man
called for the newspaper reflecting his particular
shade of political opinions, and read it over his
breakfast. In each case the reader's eye was
caught by a prominent paragraph, the heading
of which had a strangely familiar yet utterly

unexpected look. It struck each man like a
bullet fired at himself. Both stared ' as if they
had been shot,' devoured the paragraph, got
up, and, leaving the rest of their meal untasted,
set off, after the fashion of spiritual twins whose
moods corresponded exactly, and who had
established a ghostly telegraphic communication
between them, straight for St. Giles's.

The paragraph was not the announcement
that within the last twenty-four hours the

country house of Eedcot, in shire, had been

burned to the ground, and that its master had,
unhappily, perished in the flames. Neither was
it a 'scandal in high life,' with the name of
]airs. Prior figuring in association with that of a
certain ' gallant Lovelace,' young enough to
be her son. Still the news was sufficiently
astounding and alarming.

Bank Robbery at Newton.  On the night
before last, or early yesterday morning. Crab-tree's
Bank was broken into, and Bank of
Norland notes to the value of seven thousand

pounds, together with a parcel containing
Mexican 3 per Cent, bonds taken from the safe.
Mr. Lambert Crabtree, the head of the bank,
was from home on the night of the robbery.
He has been sent for, and is hourly expected.
The affair, which was promptly put into the
hands of the police by the wife of the banker,
is creating a great sensation in the town and
neighbourhood. The only suggestion which
has been offered as to the perpetrators of the
robbery, which was discovered when the clerks
opened the bank, is that the Bank House, communicating
with the bank, was recently in the
hands of house-painters, who may thus have
become acquainted with the premises. On the
other hand, as the men employed to repaint
the house are workmen in the service of a
respectable tradesman in the town, it is invidious,
without further ground for suspicion, to
connect the burglary with them at this stage of
the proceedings. A more allowable remark is
that the time of the commission of the crime

was well chosen. The night of the robbery
was the night of a volunteer ball given by Mr.
Lambert Crabtree, as Colonel of the Newton
troop of volunteers, in which he took so much
interest that, though he had been absent on important
business in London for some days
previously, he came down expressly to be
present at the supper, returning, as it unfortunately
happened, by the last train. The stir
and general confusion of the night of a ball,
with which the whole town, and particularly
the occupants of the Bank House had to do,
may be safely judged to have afforded special
facilities for carrying out so daring a crime.'

Good Lord ! how does this affect Lambert?'
groaned Mat Crabtree, in his inmost soul, as he
instinctively buttoned up his coat and snatched
at his hat and gloves.

'Crabtree's Bank robbed the night before
last when I was in the house ! ' Jack Prior said
to himself incredulously. ' Impossible ! It
must be a canard. But didn't I hear something

and dream that Susie came into my
room ? ' Suddenly his lips closed. He had no
conception of the truth, but some impulse
which he could not define checked his very
thoughts and tinged his incredulity with a
monstrous intangible dread, so absurd that, if
he had allowed it to take form, he must have
laughed aloud. A restless, uncomfortable excitement
and uncertainty took possession of
him, overshadowing his pressing personal concerns,
throwing his half shaped plans into
disorder, and forcing him to take an immediate
resolution. ' The others will get this piece of
news,' he told himself vaguely. 'They may
leave Oxford and return home without delay.
Crab tree will, I have no question. I must see
Jane at once when I have too good an excuse,
if I am to intercept her.'

Mat Crabtree went through the Turn with its
colleges, looking cool and grey in the summer
morning. Jack Prior walked up the High
Street. The two men came upon each other

at the corner of Broad Street. Jack, who was
looking straight before him, was the first to
recognise the other and hesitated. Mat Crab-tree
had his eyes cast down, and was only-roused
from anxious thought by the half pause
of the man in the act of passing him.

Mat looked up. ' Hallo, Jack Prior. How
have you come here? Have you fallen from
the skies ? ' he cried in genuine amazement,
which overcame every other feeling. ' When
did you return ? Did you come on from Newton
last night? I say, what is this about the
bank robbery ? ' And he eagerly button-holed
Jack, who, taken aback in his recent hostility
to the person addressing him, out of which he
had been, as it were, driven by the extraordinary
tidings of the morning, stammered out,
I know nothing about it. I slept at Susie's
the night before last, and left early next morning,
when there was no word of a robbery. I
missed the train at the junction. I was on my
way to Jane.' He ended stiffly, with a suspicion

of sullenness coming into His voice. What had
Mat Crab tree not done to him, though it might
have been unadvisedly, that he should be thus
stopped and cross-questioned in the public
street ?

Ah ! ' said Crabtree, with a gulp, half of
disappointment, half of relief, ' then you are in
the dark also. But I cannot make it out,' he
added, in perplexity. ' You say you were at
Newton the night before last, yet you did not
appear at the ball, while your mother will take
it ill that you should make a halt so near home.
I'll engage Jane does not know df your arrival
Susie must have said nothing of it. Perhaps
you came too late, when Susie was gone and
the fun half over. Well,' he added, knitting
his brows sharply, ' it seems it has been followed
fast enough by a calamity. Come along. Jack,'
Mat resumed, as if he were recalled to the
exigencies of the moment, ' I have no time to
lose. I, too, was going to your sister to tell
her what has happened. She may not have

seen the papers, and she might be startled and
put out if she heard the thing spoken of without
Warning. Besides, I can't go without
bidding the girls good-bye. Of course, I must
leave by the next train.'

Jack did not appear to have any choice.
He did not see how he could avoid accompanying
Mat Crabtree, incongruous as the action
was, after what had been in Jack's mind, unless
he were prepared to come to an awkward
explanation then and there.

In the midst of his steady tramp past Balliol
there flashed upon Mat Crabtree through the
cloud of family trouble which had fallen upon
him a recollection that had a great deal to do
with two people in whom he took a natural
interest. His step involuntarily slowed, a half
smile broke across the gravity of his comely
middle-aged face. ' You know who is in Oxford
besides Jane ? ' he inquired tentatively, and
now that you have turned up so opportunely,
wonders will never cease,' he said, with a shrug

and a forced laugh, which would not have
been forced yesterday. ' My boy,' he went on
kindly, * you are the luckiest beggar in every
respect that I know  luckier than you guess ;
though I don't mean that you are not acquainted
with your greatest piece of luck. But
I have not time to expatiate on all your good
fortune and the marvels that have come to pass
on your behalf  I must leave that to a more
fitting occasion. I'll just ask if you have
written home. There will be no difficulty
there ; but you ought to make the explanation
easier for her.'

Jack stared blankly. What could Mat
Crabtree mean ? Was he mocking him ? Had
the man taken leave of his senses ?

But there was no further opportunity for
enlightenment. The couple were at the well-known
house in St. Giles's, at which both men
looked up with strangely mingled feelings.
There were no faces at the windows, out of
which Jack and his comrades had been guilty

of leaning smoking, and, when they were on
their worst behaviour, chaffing their acquaintances
among the passers-by.

A young maid-servant answered Mr. Crab-tree's
knock. ' Yes, the young ladies were at
home.' Somebody behind corrected the statement,
and the girl made a corresponding
amendment. One of the young ladies was at
home, but the other  Miss Prior  had gone
out for a book which she said she wanted,
while the other young lady was getting
ready.

I know said Mat Crab tree, ' Jane must
have gone to Cock's for one of Price's books
which we looked at yesterday. She must have
been in the shop when I passed. I'll go back
and meet her, and leave the field free for you,
Jack. There is your good fortune again, my
lad ; ' and Mat Crabtree faced about actively,
and was retracing his steps before Jack had
recovered himself.

Yes, however oddly it might be brought

about, and by Mat Crabtree of all people, it
was a lucky chance, it was better to see her
first alone, and have it out with her, as he had
said. He let the girl show him up, though he
could have found his way blindfold. As he
entered his former sitting-room, where a scarf
and a parasol lying on a side-table, a bit of
embroidery, not Jane's, on the broad windowsill,
a different arrangement and a greater
profusion of flowers on the chimney-piece,
made the place look as it had been wont to
look in Commemoration Week, Bennet Gray
came in from an adjoining bedroom, wearing
her hat and jacket, and in the act of buttoning
her long gloves. The eyes of the two met and
spoke volumes. Bennet's lighted up instantaneously
as by a lightning flash  danced  ran
over with unspeakable joy and thankfulness,
while Jack's sought to read her soul.

She came forward with one step and took
hold of his two hands, surprised out of herself.
She was nearly as tall as he was, and she could

look straight into his brown face, more bizarre
than ever when it was working with emotion,
as if she distrusted her eyes, as, indeed, she
distrusted them for the moment. * Jack, you
have come back safe ! ' she cried in exultation
that was so vibrating with gratitude, it was
more pathetic than any lamentation. ' The sea
is crossed  it is all over  there will be no more
parting.' If one can imagine a human being
standing on the eternal shore and hailing a
friend after all the waves and billows of time
are past, the greeting will be like that which
Bennet Gray gave Jack Prior when he returned
to her, safe and sound, from the Antipodes.
Mortal love cannot say more  nay, the love is
immortal which expresses itself in such simple,
universal lancruaoe.

Jack, who had been so easily touched by
Susie's welcome, was moved to his heart's core
when truth itself, and love stronger than death,
thus met him. He could have humbled himself
in the dust for his doubts  his disbelief in

this woman who had honoured him with her
pure, tender, deep affection, restrained and
scarcely shown hitherto, only leaping up and
bursting its bounds at the sudden shock of his
presence. He kept her two hands in his, and
kissed them before he kissed her lips, and said
again awkwardly in his agitation, ' Then you're
happy to have me back, Bennet, Httle worth as
lam?'

Happy ! ' she too exclaimed reproachfully,
with her head against his breast ; ' if this is
happiness, I have never known what it is to be
happy before. It is not a question of being
little or much worth, Jack, it is of being all the
world to one joyful woman.'

Then her generous heart flew straight to
another whose share in her joy Bennet was
more inclined to hug than to spurn. 'How
glad Mrs. Prior must have been at your arrival.
Iso you know, I am a little sorry that I did not
see the meeting with your mother . but, perhaps,
she would prefer it unseen. And did

Tommy know you again ? Did the dear old
beast leap up to your head ? '

I have not seen my mother yet,' he said,
more gravely than he had before spoken ; for
he had done her wrong, and he had wronged
his mother also, while he was aware of difficulties
at home which would not be improved
by the disaster to Lambert Crabtree. Bennet,
though she had by an incomprehensible arrangement
been living in the house for the last six
months, could not clearly understand these
difficulties. He tried to shake off his gravity.
The dear old beast, as you call him  to think
Tommy should be a personal acquaintance of
yours, Bennet  has had no opportunity of so
nuich as licking my feet, which he abased himself
to do the last time I saw him.'

A throb of pride which was half a pang of
pain swelled her bosom. She was the one
woman, supplanting all others  even his oldest
and best friend  to whom he had come first to
announce his arrival, by a right and natural

VOL. II. N

impulse, as a man leaves father and mother and
cleaves to his wife. Yet she had a sense as if
she had defrauded, as well as deceived, the
woman who had known aid loved him so much
longer, to whom he was so much, who had
been so good to her  Bennet. She looked up
wistfully in his face, prepared to urge him to
quit her and go at once to Eedcot, while he
was pursuing a totally different line of thought.
'What made you go and be a governess at
Eedcot, of all places, Bennet ? ' he asked.
'Was it for my sake? How did it come
about ? '

Why, I told you the whole story in my
letter,' she answered quickly.

What letter ? ' he inquired as quickly. ' I
did not get a letter from you except the one on
landing. I accounted for it by your not having
any settled address to which you could write
until I got to Tumult, where I did not wait for
the arrival of the mail. I left because of that
splendid " run " I wrote to you about. There

was a fear that it would be taken up soon, and
I thought I had better not let the grass grow
beneath, my feet before I returned, and persuaded
YOU, darling, to keep your promise and
come out with me.'

'You are the pink of politeness and consideration,'
said Bennet merrily, ' to send mean
address and not wait for your letters. You
have not heard from me ! ' she repeated, in
fresh wonder and confusion of mind. ' Then
all my trouble went for nothing, and my news
has yet to be told.'

He had" no fear of that news now, and no
devouring curiosity to hear it ; but he felt it
would be a satisfaction to him to pour out to
this sympathetic listener some part of his story,
what he had suffered since he set foot in
England again. ' I went to Miss Burton, from
whom you said I could always hear tidings of
you in case of any difficulty,' he said, a little
reproachfully, ' and the deuce was in it, Bennet
dear, I cannot think what came over your

IT 2

friend. She owned you had left Berkshire ;
but not another word could I get out of her,
till she waited and took counsel with some
other schoolmistress, I suppose,' complained
Jack resentfully.

'You rude boy, you forget that I am a
schoolmistress,' cried Bennet, bubbling over
with laughter.

But Jack was too full of his grievance to
apologise. ' What business had she to keep
back the knowledge from me, when she was
aware that I had a right to hear ? She would
not even say where you were gone or what
you were doing. She put me out horribly;
any fellow would have been nonplussed ; I
cannot tell what she did not tempt me to
think.'

Oh, dear old foolish Jack,' cried Bennet
again, rather relishing the dilemma in which
she had not been involved, that, like the voyage
to Australia, was over and done with ; ' and
oh, poor dear Mary, how you must have taken

her by surprise, and frightened and bewildered
her. I hope you did not stay long, Jack, or
argue loudly in the schoolmistress's parlour 
Mary is so prudent and particular.'

Very prudent and particular,' grumbled
Jack ; ' but the qualities strike me as slightly
overstrained and morbid.'

For one thing, she knew that I was at
Eedcot  where, by the way, she did not approve
of my going, unless the family knew
everything  she could not tell how you would
receive the information.'

She might have tried to find out. She
might have guessed that I should ascertain it
for myself the moment I went home. She had
better have prepared me,' retorted Jack.

Perhaps,' admitted Bennet, ' but I daresay
you did not tell her you were going home.'

I told her nothing I could help,' acknowledged
Jack. ' I was too much taken aback.
I was completely knocked on the head, and in
too great a rage.'

There, you see, you were as bad as poor
Mary, and she had other things weighing upon
lier mind which I know she did not like to
mention without getting liberty. No doubt
she believed she ought to leave it to the person
principally concerned to tell her secrets at her
own time and in her own way.' Bennet was
smiling all over like a child. There was little
question she would break to Jack in the
pleasantness fashion a certain matter Mary
Burton had declined to impart which would
work a revolution in the lovers' affairs.

Not a word had been said of Mat Crabtree ;
not a syllable of his attendance on Bennet the
night of the ball. Indeed, she had as yet a
confused idea of the precise date of Jack's
arrival, the length of his stay at the Bank
House, and the manner in which he had employed
his time there. Susie's malicious gossip,
and what had appeared confirmation strong at
the time, faded into a trifle light as air before
Bennet's welcome, in Jack's mind. He was not

only quite content without further explanation ;
he had a wholesome dislike to enter on the
subject in detail. Since he was restored to his
right mind he had a tolerably correct realisation
of the light in which a right-minded, high-spirited
woman like Bennet Gray would view
his doubts and suspicions. She would regard
them as small honour to him and no compliment
to her.

The moment Bennet was about to introduce
a different element into the conversation, the
steps and voices of Mat Crabtree and Jane
Prior were heard approaching, and the pair in
the little sitting-room were conscious of nothing
save a shy inclination to draw apart from each
other.

Mat Crabtree had told Jane of the robbery
of his brother's bank, and of her brother's
return. He had even found time to say some
words which, if his mind and Jane's had been
sufficiently disengaged, might have sounded
equally significant and astonishing, though they

had not been breathed till that day  that there
was a previous acquaintance between Jack
Prior and Miss Gray, who were awaiting the
others in the old lodging. But Jane, who was
matter-of-fact and straightforward to excess,
was too overwhelmed by the first communication
to pay much attention to what followed.
She knew enough of the reckless extravagance
of the Lambert Crabtrees ; she had too plainly
before her mind's eye Susie as she had appeared
at the ball two nights before, in glaring contrast
to what might be just coming on her and her
husband, not to have a tolerably clear con vie 
tion that the misfortune of the robbery meant
subsequent ruin and disgrace to Jane's sister
and brother-in-law.

Jane's honest, honourable nature shrank
from the pictures thus placed side by side.
She looked in Mat Crabtree's face, and saw
how the lines about the eyes and the mouth
had deepened, as if by a miracle of the Great
Graver's chisel, since her friend had parted

from her in high glee last evening. She saw
further, for she held a talisman which rendered
her eyes keen here ; she recognised what others
might have overlooked  a deadly sickness of
apprehension, a haggard horror of the shame
that another day or hour might bring forth,
which ought not to have lurked on a goodman's
face and voice behind a veil of decent
composure and ordinary comment and surmise.
Her own heart was ready to faint at that undercurrent
of expression which she detected coming
and going on Mat Crabtree's countenance and
in his tones. Before the misery of it she had
little notice to spare to the facts of the sudden
turning up of Jack as a roving brother, who,
like a rolling stone, gathered no moss, with the
additional abrupt intimation that he had known
Miss Gray ' all the time.' Yet oddly, Miss
Gray had not chosen to mention the acquaintance,
which had been made somewhere at
some time before she came to Eedcot ; it might
have been in a previous state of existence for

anything that Jane knew or cared to know for
the moment, when all the world seemed turning
upside down, and nobody could tell what
might happen next. Jane only heard the
vague announcement in a faint, far-away
manner, like a truth communicated in a dream.
It 'aroused no other feeling than a dull, sore
sense that Miss Gray had a superfluity of
mysterious acquaintanceships, and admitted,
unaccounted for incidents in her past. But
that was her affair, and possibly Mr. Crabtree's ;
it was certainly not Jane's.

A more definite impression was produced
on Jane by the circumstance that when she
came hurrying in with Mat Crabtree, went upto
Jack, and hastily bestowed on him a sisterly
kiss, as a necessary accompaniment to the
half-mechanical questions, ' When did you
come. Jack ? Why have you followed us ? '
then sat down, looked round with her blanched
face, and demanded generally, ' Isn't it dreadful
? A bank robbery at Newton ! What

will Susie have done ? ' Miss Gray uttered an
exclamation, as if the word had all the rousing
freshness of novelty to her. ' A robbery ! ' she
cried. ' What robbery ? When and where did
it happen ? You don't mean to say it had todo
with Mr. Lambert Crabtree's bank ? '

Explanations ensued, everybody speaking
at once, but through the hubbub the thought
crossed Jane's pre-occupied mind, ' Mr. Crab-tree
said he left Jack at the door here. He
must have had ten minutes in which to renew
his acquaintance with Miss Gray, yet he never
told her of the robbery at Newton, of which
the greater part of England must be talking
this morning. What could they have found to
speak aboiit which occupied them so completely
that a bank robbery only a day old,
happening to Jack's brother-in-law's bank, and
when, as it transpired, Jack himself was sleeping
in the Bank House on the very night in
question, should be passed over like the most
common trivial occurrence ? '

After a brief consultation with Bennet,
Jane made known their determination not to
go on with their examination, but to return
with Mr. Crabtree and Jack.

Mat Crabtree, with a pained recollection 
almost fatherly in its tender consideration of
the enthusiastic preparation for the examination,
of the high hopes with which the
candidates had come up, and of yesterday's
proud parade of Oxford, tried languidly to
combat the resolution. But he could not
avoid the perception that the women's minds
were upset. He had to grant that it was
better to withdraw than fail. He had even to
yield to the secret, unpalatable conviction that
Jane recoiled from further publicity to her
family at this crisis. For she had a quick
sense that it would hardly be seemly for her
name to appear, even in an honour-list, with
what might be brought to light in reference to
her sister's husband in a different part of the
newspapers. As for Miss Gray, the same

argument applied to her to a greater extent
than people guessed as yet. Mat Crabtree
admitted also with a sigh that it would be a
comfort for them all to go back together,
ascertain exactly what had occurred, and,
though he did not say the last clause of the
sentence aloud, face the worst, whatever it
might be, at once.

CHAPTEE IX.

THE RETURN TO NEWTON Free H DETAILS.

During the railway journey the whole talk was
naturally of the robbery. Even if the little
party had been disposed to discuss other
matters the speakers would have been perpetually
recalled to the main theme. Every
time they stopped at a station and saw the
newspapers on a bookstall, there would be a
reminder. Wherever people strolled up and
down on the platform talking to each other,
passing and repassing the open windows of the
carriages, certain words would be overheard.
If fresh passengers entered, after the staple
remarks on the weather were got through, the
speakers had immediate recourse to the topic

of the hour. ' Seen the papers ? Heard of

the bank robbery at Newton, in shire ?

Most audacious thing of the kind that has
happened for a long time. Bankers had
better look sharp.' Sometimes the remarks
were more personal. Crab tree's Bank was
mentioned, and Mat Crab tree began to wince
at the association of the two words, while his
companions felt conscious and uncomfortable.
A knowing stranger was heard to observe, 'The
banker's having been absent was a doomed unlucky
coincidence  I should not like to be the
fellow,' then Mat Crab tree frowned heavily
and Jane Prior felt furious for him. It was
that strangest experience which comes to some
of us in the course of our lives, which strikes
us with a curious disembodied sensation  as if
we were dead and buried, and the surviving
world were discussing us and our affairs impartially
over our graves. The experience
occurs when, by some unusual chance, some
notable deed or misdeed we or our friends

have done, some striking misfortune or stroke
of luck which has befallen us, we are talked
about by absolute strangers. They discuss the
matter as we have discussed similar events
relating to others, in our very presence, of
which the speakers are unaware. We feel
that we ought to enlighten their ignorance and
warn them of the interested character of their
audience ; but something  sheer wretchedness
or recklessness, or pride or shame  holds our
tongues. And we listen like ghosts to what
men and women say about us when they think
we do not hear and that there is little likelihood
of their words ever reaching our ears.

A growing constraint laid hold of the
travellers. At the beginning of their journey
they might have addressed their fellow travellers
without scruple, careless of concealing any
Crabtree or Prior identity  though they could
not have made stock of it, as Susie would have
done in the circumstances  and asked for the
latest intelligence. But now Mat Crabtree and

Jack Prior, with the girls, drew apart, and
conversed only among themselves of the all-engrossing
subject.

Jack Prior said least of all, which was not like
him, for he had naturally plenty to say, and when
a burden had been lifted off his mind, he might
have been expected to show himself diffuse in
his lightness of heart. He only declared, in
answer to questions, that, except for the Bank
House's having been repainted, the place was
the same on the night he had slept there as it
had always been. He was not prepared with
the slightest , statement of anything that had
happened where he was concerned. He said
this a little impatiently and doggedly, as if it
annoyed him to be brought into the story, and
as if he did not wish his mind to dwell on his
personal contact with it, which was a mere
accident.

Indeed, Jack had happier things to think
of. His course was not clear, so far as he saw,
by any means. But the simple fact that he

VOL. II.

had been grossly mistaken in his temporary
misjudging of Bennet Gray, together with their
present relations to each other, was joy to him.
She was there in the same carriage with him,
so that by a little manoeuvre he could sit
opposite her, look out of the same window,
touch her fingers incidentally, as they lay on
the sash, hand her out and in, exchange a
sentence aside with her at intervals, and always
have her fair, sweet face, brimming over with
wit and intelligence, a beacon and loadstone
for any man to watch covertly. No horribly
awkward, unpropitious position on his part,
no thunder cloud of disaster hanging over
others, no crazy suspicion of his  which he put
sternly from him  could shroud his joy in
gloom. The unconfessed, disallowed lovers
had not seen so much of each other  above all
had not established so clear an understanding
between the two before, as to make the company
of the one comparatively indifferent to the
other, or the knowledge that they were fully

plighted to each other, with the next step in
their history exciting uncertain, a thing of no
consequence to either.

Bennet was still happier than Jack, in spite
of her sympathy With Mr Crabtree and Jane, and
her alarmed, vague comprehension that there
was sorrow on its way to all the Priors through
the robbery of. Mr. Lambert Crabtree's bank.
But she herself could not be very sorry  not
on this day, which had brought back Jack to
her. How brave and manly, and a thousand
times better than handsome, he looked. But
for that matter he was ' handsomely ugly ' ; he
had turned the corner and arrived at that
pitch of plain looks which is as good as
beauty, and has a more unique attraction.
Besides, beauty fades, whilst Jack's ugliness
would never fade. Dear, short, broad, hard-favoured
Jack, his mother's darling and hers !
And he had come straight to her without an
instant's hesitation, not knowing a syllable to
this moment of the change in her circumstances.



He was going back with her to own
her and their engagement before his people 
to brave, as he imagined, his father's anger
and his mother's entreaties and reproaches.
She knew it by the droop of his hips and the
sudden gravity which came over his face when
he ceased to look at her.

This woman was in some respects more
intellectual than Jack Prior. She had shown
far greater courageous self-denying application
and diligence, she had no particular reason to
feel proud of him according to the common
standard. Yet she had honest pride and
delight in his truth and disinterestedness. She
so longed that he should have the full credit
of the qualities, and they were so sweet to her
that she dallied still with her secret and kept
it back, though it could not be much longer
withheld, especially when Mr. Crabtree was
privy to it. Poor Mr. Crabtree ! he had no
common sense remonstrance and covert amusement
to give to it to-day. The truth must be

told, for everybody's sake, presently ; and
tliouoh Bennet was in thought a little abashed
and a little frightened before Mrs. Prior,
strange to say, even more than before Mr.
Prior or Jane the culprit, would not be really
sorry that everything should be known. On
the contrary, it was part of her pleasant meditations
to consider how the good news was to
be broken, and whether she might be allowed
for once to give everybody down to the
youngest child and the lowest servant  down
to Tommy in fried liver and sponge cake  the
wish of the soul of each individual out of
Bennet's abundance.

As the train drew near Newton, even Jack
and Bennet  the former with a peculiar reluctance
 gave themselves up to the consideration
of the robbery. They greedily listened to the
conflicting rumours which were openly discussed
and frankly addressed to Mr. Crabtree
and the Priors by people who knew them, as
to persons deeply interested in the business.

Some said the money had been recovered,
some that it had not been traced. It was confidently
asserted that Mr. Lambert Crabtree
had arrived late last niht. It was awed
t'lat he had not yet come back, as he had been
out of town when the telegram was delivered,
but he was expected every moment. All
agreed that the police were in possession of the
Bank House, and that detectives had been
brought down from London.

You had better take your sister and Miss
Gray to the White Hart, and wait there till a
trap can be got to drive over to Eedcot,'
suggested Mat Crabtree to Jack. ' I'll go upto
the Bank House and see what Susie is doing,
and what has turned up. Ill be back to let
you know before you start.'

The girls where glad to go to the inn, which
was not far off, where the Eedcot phaeton and
horse were put up when they were not accommodated
in the Bank House stable. Jane and
Ben net wished to be under cover and out of

sight, thoiigli they had done no wrong. Jack
shared the inclination. The whole three had
an uncomfortable impression that the old-fashioned
streets were unusually crowded,
though it was not market day. There were
loungers about, and the shopkeepers were
standing talking in their shop doors. The
place was not like itself, or like what it had
been on the evening of the volunteer ball.
The town had been in a state of excitement
then, but it was mere pleasurable, ordinary
excitement Now everybody was experiencing
a strong sensation outside of himself or herself,
and was on the qui vive for more thrilling
sensations of a similar kind. The summer
sunshine felt overpower ingle hot and dazzling.
Scores of eyes seemed greedily following the
Priors and Miss Gray, who, if not the victims
of the robbery, were the next thing to them 
near relations and familiar acquaintances.

Mat Crabtree was as good as his word. He
came in trying to look cheerful and indifferent,

but he was more flushed, and there was a
deeper contraction between the whitening brows
than when he went away. Yes, the police were
there. Susie was not.

What ? ' interposed Jack sharply, ' where
is she ? '

At your father's, of course,' answered Mat
Crab tree. ' Though she sent for the police the
first thing yesterday and told them all she knew,
I suppose she was put about by their investigations,
for she went ofi* with the children in
the course of the afternoon to Eedcot. It was
so natural that nobody could say anything
against it, only Spies,' naming his brother's
lawyer, ' whom I had the good luck to see in
the street, who had been sent for along with the
police, told me it was an injudicious step, and
he had hinted as much to Susie. But I don't
fancy it matters.'

Has her husband Is your brother

not there ? ' faltered Jane, not able to look him
in the face.

'Not yet, I am sorry to say,' he replied
briefly, turning half away, and turning as
quickly back again. ' There is sufficient explanation
of his delay. He had gone out of town
without leaving his address. In fact, it was
thought at the hotel that he had taken a run to
Scilly with a yachting man who had been staying
in the house. They have sent after him as
well as they could. He may have written to
Susie. There was a constrained silence, broken
by Jack's remarking, with an effort, that
Lambert Crabtree was fond of yachting when
he had the chance.

'I saw the head of the police,' Mat Crab-tree
resumed his story with greater ease. ' Of
course, he was cautious, and declined to supply
me with information ; but I believe the money,
or the greater portion of it, has been found.'

Oh, how fortunate,' was exclaimed simultaneously.


How thankful I am,' cried Jane.

Yes ; but as it had been secreted in different

parts of the house,' Mr. Crabtree went
on, drily, ' the circumstance seems to criminate
somebody who had a knowledge of the locality
not a strange thief. . Do you know anything
in particular about the servants, Jane ? '

Nothing,' said Jane, considering, ' except
that Susie was continually praising them and
making them presents, and very often changing
the whole set. It appeared to me that though
they gave her satisfaction she tried them by
asking too much from them and overworking
them. You know Susie has a habit of thinking
that nobody can do too much for her. The
servants always began splendidly, and the next
thing one heard of them was that they were
gone.'

I knew Parsons, the old clerk who used to
sleep in the house when Lambert was away, is
as honest a soul as ever breathed,' said Mat
Crabtree.

Parsons was not there,' put in Jack, abruptly
; ' it was I.'

By a curious impulse, common to everybody
in the room, they all turned to Jack and looked
inquiringly at him.

He coloured crimson, under the tan of his
voyage. ' Who knows but that the police and
the public may accuse me of the robbery ? ' he
said, with a laugh that did not sound natural.
There was something discordant not merely in
the tone, but also in the ill-timed jocular
defiance.

For Heaven's sake don't, say anything so
horrid, Jack,' protested the literal Jane.

They are not such idiots,' said Mat Crab-tree
impatiently.

Only one person present replied to Jack's
laugh with another, which rang out for a second
with blithe, fearless scorn. The laugher was
Bennet Gray.

I shall wait here for Lambert, but, at all
events, I shall try to ride over and see your
father to-night; tell him so,' was Mat Crabtree's
parting assurance as he despatched the party.

Everything that could be brought forward
with regard to this last mystery of the lost
money having been found in the Bank House
had been said long before the dogcart which
Jack was driving reached Eedcot. For the
shadows of the afternoon were lengthening  it
was just about the time when Mrs. Prior  in
Jane's absence  would be having tea brought
into the drawing-room. Extreme quiet had
fallen on the party, when Jane raised her voice
and said the thought it would not do for them
to make so much of this robbery of Lambert
Crabtree's bank, or to take it so greatly to heart.
It was most distressing, everything considered,
but it seemed to her that they ought to be
careful, on Susie's account, to prevent her from
being more put out and unable for what she
must go through. Jane had known her sister,
in spite of her airy, inconsequent ways, get
hysterical on occasions. The party were bound
to spare her father and mother, who must have
received a shock, and should seek to silence

exaggerated talk  among the servants, for instance.
They  the family  ought to look on
the affair calmly, and not let it weigh on their
minds as it was doing, particularly when Jack's
coming home just at this time would afford a
natural diversion.

Jane's listeners started  started guiltily at
her sage injunction, delivered solemnly. The
couple had actually been forgetting all about
the robbery which she was urging them not to
take so greatly to heart. Young love would
have its way and its day in the face of all
obstacles. This was the first time the man and
woman had been together in scenes of which
the two had often spoken, amidst which, if all
went well with them, they ought to spend the
greater part of their lives. Every field, every
coppice, was full of interest. Long eloquent
looks around and loving glances interchanged
were serving Jack Prior and Bennet Gray for
reminders in speech when Jane thus inopportunely
broke in upon their thoughts.

 CHAPTEE X.

REDCOT, WITH SUSIE IN POSSESSION.

Driving up the avenue, the arrivals came upon
the little Woods and their cousins the Crab-trees
at play on the lawn.

Immediately a shrill chorus was set up,
 Here they are already  Miss Gray and Aunt
Jane ! Miss Gray, have you brought us the
Banbury cakes and the little boats like Uncle
Jack's you promised us . Oh ! here is Uncle
Jack himself I Hurrah ! hurrah ! '

The noise must have penetrated through the
open drawing-room windows instantly. But
there was not the immediate rush out Bennet
Gray expected  only a muffled barking within
which showed that Tommy was on the scent
and giving tongue. At last eager eyes saw Mrs.

Prior in her daintily neat dress appearing on
the threshold, but John Prior, with a newspaper
in his hand, stood arrested in the hall, while
Susie, in the most elegant of tea-gowns, only
nodded languidly from a window. It was for
the new-comers to enter and pay homage to
her, in the melancholy importance of the misfortune
that had happened to Lamb, and through
Lamb, to his wife. Even Mrs. Prior's steps
seemed to be clogged by some invisible burden.
For the first time in Jack's many returns to
Eedcot his mother did not hasten to meet him.
After a moment's puzzled disappointment the
explanation occurred to him and Bennet simultaneously,
and Bennet's heart fell. Susie had
told her garbled tale of Jack's appearance two
days before, of his tarrying with her, and of his
unnecessary detour to Oxford. Jack was the
same man, unstable and trifling as ever, and yet
not the same, for he had grown unfaithful to
his first love, his affection had cooled to his
mother.

Mrs. Prior could not altogether conceal her
mortification, though she was steeling herself
to do so. But Tommy forced his way past her,
got among everybody's feet in an injudicious
attempt to clear at a bound the distance
between him and his young master, and finally
rolled over in his foolish bliss, not minding
at all that Jack was standing stock-still,
taking no notice of him. Then Mrs. Prior got
a full view of her son's beetling brow, wistful
eyes, and clumsy vigorous young figure, and she
could resist no longer  she put her arms round
his neck and forgave him without a word,
though whether she would forgive another was
quite a different story.

So you're here again, Jack, though you've
been in no haste to report yourself,' said John
Prior, in as chilly and aggrieved a tone as if he
had every reason to feel hurt and resentful at
Jack's vagrancy and supineness, and none to
take himself to task for the development of the
objectionable qualities.

It is all there is for me, father, and it is
not so much worth that my staying away a day
or two longer need be of any moment,' answered
Jack, with equal curtness, and perhaps
more heat and soreness than had been usual
with him, for was not Bennet Gray a grieved
witness of his sorry reception after many
months of absence, and a long voyage, with its
chances and changes ?

That was the beginning of one of the most
miserable evenings Bennet Gray had ever spent
the evening of the day when Jack had come
back to her, she reflected piteously. She might
have anticipated it, she had not deserved anything
better, still this reversal of what had been
her foolish day-dream had not come into her
reckoning.

True, Susie Crabtree was more than willing
to fill the foreground and engross the canvas
with her adventures and woes. She hailed her
brother and sister and Miss Gray when they
came into the drawing-room with a half
VOL II. r

plaintive, half imperious demand. Why had
they lingered outside and not hurried in to
speak to her and comfort her ? They ought to
have done so, after all she had gone through.
She might have been murdered since they saw
her last. Of course it was the greatest wonder,
a perfect interposition of Providence on her
behalf, that she had not been put to death  a
violent and shocking death  by the brutal
wretches who had broken into the bank in
Lamb's absence. Had Jane and Miss Gray
heard all about it ? And oh ! was not Jack
astonished after he had left in the morning
without suspecting anything ? But nobody save
herself could tell what she had undergone.
She was afraid she would never get over it or
sleep quietly again. She had started up a
hundred times the previous night, though she
was sensible she was away from it all, safe at
dear old Kedcot. 

Susie's looks were not without confirmation
of her words. In the middle of her excitement

she had a certain strained, spent air as if her
great dark eyes had been wide awake and wide
open for an unconscionable time. The carmine
of her cheeks had settled into two fixed red
spots, which spoke of feverish fatigue and unrest.


What frightened you first, Susie ? ' inquired
Jane.

Oh ! all sorts of things  the turning of
locks, and the scraping of files, heavy feet, and
men's voices,' enumerated Susie, with rapid
precision. In fact she had told her tale till she
had it by heart.

Did you not call out or ring the bell ? '
asked JVIiss Gray, naturally.

Of course not,' answered Susie, almost
petulantly, ' I did not wish to bring the monsters
upon me and Piers, whose crib had been
carried into my room. I did get up and put
on my dressing-gown and steal to the door
wondering if I might venture to go tc
Jack.'

p 2

You did get up,' exclaimed Jack eagerly,
and you came '

No farther than the first lobby,' she interrupted
him, not only with her flow of words, but
with an unflinching stare, under which his eyes,
not hers, fell. ' I cannot tell what happened then.
I think I must have fainted, crouching down
against the wall, for when I came to myself I
was so cold, huddled up in the corner, between
the cabinet and the pedestal with Lamb's bust.
It was all I could do to creep back to my room
and get into bed again. There was no more
noise and I felt sick and giddy. I fell asleep at
last, and when I awoke I persuaded myself it
had been a dreadful dream,' ended Susie, with
a deep sigh and an expression of injured innocence,
as she examined the costly rings on her
slender fingers.

Were your ears so impervious to sounds
that you heard nothing outside your room.
Jack ? ' John Prior asked his son, with several
shades both of suspicion and irony in his voice.

as if lie implied ' Has it come to this, that you
drug yourself and sleep like a log ? Are you
not even of as much good as a reasonably alert
watch dog ? '

Susie put up her hand to her temples. She
had the air of suffering from a twinge of neuralgia.
She shaded her face with her hand,
and bent her head in the best attitude for
catching the first syllables of the reply.

Outside my room ? ' muttered Jack, repeating
his father's words, and articulating them as
if he were speaking in his sleep. ' No ; I heard
nothing outside my room, unless a slight slamming
of doors, which was not likely to be the
work of thieves, and that must have been after
the time which Susie refers to.'

He was silent, and so was Susie, while the
rest of the company were left to compare and
do what they could to reconcile the conflicting
statements. Jack's room had been, in fact,
nearer the room which held the safe in the adjoining
bank. It was odd that Mrs. Lambert

Crabtree had detected conspicuous signs of the
presence of burglars and yet he had distinguished
nothing. There was no explanation of the discrepancy
unless, as somebody obligingly pointed
out, in the different degrees of light and heavy
sleep which are to be found in members of the
same family.

Susie had not heard from her husband with
any announcement of his trip to the Scilly Isles.
All that she had to say of his absence was that
it was silly of him to go yachting at such a
time ; though of course he could not foresee
the bank robbery. He would be worse than
silly  he would be like a madman when he did
know, which she had no doubt would be presently.


During the first part of the evening Susie 
who made herself much more the lion of the
circle than the returned traveller put in any
claim to the role  either went over her story
with slight variations again and again, or she
managed to lose sight of her tenors, passing

from one extreme to the other, and getting into
outrageous spirits. She returned to the details
of the volunteer ball and tore them to tatters,
laughing and jesting over them. The servants
when they passed in and out stared at the incongruity.
The cloud which lie had brought
with her to overhang the house only grew the
darker for Susie's frantic, intermittent efforts to
escape from it. She insisted on having music
and played and sang herself, though she complained
that the piano was out of tune, and it
was clear to the listeners that she herself was
out of the little voice she had, for she sang
hoarsely before she stopped  an accident which
annoyed her out of all proportion to its slightness.
' I am not going to get like a raven,' she
kept telling herself indignantly. She teased her
mother till the elder woman sat down and
played her pieces, her 'Light of other days,'
and so on, without much spirit. Finally, Susie
fell back on Miss Gray as the musician, and
then the contretemps of the evening occurred.

Poor Jack had always been famous for blundering,
and it seemed that he was to keep up
his character for proficiency in that questionable
accomplishment. He was standing a little
way from the piano turning over some illustrated
papers lying on one of the gilt legged
tables. Miss Gray was singing a Berkshire
ballad, without the aid of printed music. Like
everyone else tlmt night she was absent-minded,
and was staring straight before her into one of
the large mirrors. It reflected the room and
its occupants, including Mr. Prior, making a
feint of reading his Quarterly at his own little
table, as he had sat and read, and nervously
tapped with his paper knife, on the night ot
Bennet's arrival eight months before.

On the spur of the moment, as usual, Jack
called out when the song was finished  ' There
is another verse ; won't you give us that . '

I do not remember any more of the song,*
said Bennet Gray, in a hasty undertone which
ought to have conveyed a warning.

But you used to sing another verse,' insisted
the incorrigible Jack, and the young
fool spoke reproachfully. ' I cannot be mistaken
; you sang another verse down in Berkshire.'


Dead pause, but for the rustle of the pages
of John Prior's magazine and the faint stir of
the fall of part of the quilt at which Mrs. Prior
was working.

Ben net felt compelled to stare aghast in the
great mirror before her, like one who would
read her fate there, and met the reflection of
a group of faces marvelling, indignant, incredulous,
distressed. One of them  that of Mrs.
Prior  was as white as her own. But for the
culprit's, it was not white ; successive waves of
red were mounting to his hair, while he bit his
lips  as the next best thing to biting his tongue
out, and bent again over his Graphic.

Susie's voice broke the silence, rising into a
shrillness of mingled surprise and gratification
because her prophecy had come true, and she

had stumbled on what appeared on the face of
it a not particularly honourable secret. Her
elation at the discovery broke down the barrier
against interesting herself in anything save her
own concerns which she had erected for the
present. ' Why, Jack, how can you tell Miss
Gray's songs ? I thought you had never met
each other before to-day.'

Jack mumbled something of having had the
pleasure or the honour before he went to
Australia.

Then good, true-hearted Jane, who had
never had an awkward secret of her own, but
could not bear to witness the discomfiture of
another woman, especially when that woman
was Miss Gray, came to the rescue, and tried
to turn off the unpleasantness of the moment,
even at the risk of incurring blame herself.


I knew that Miss Gray and Jack were acquainted
before,' she said, with an effort at
carelessness, as if the tact were of no consequence,

and without descending to particulars
such as the date of her knowledge.

It is a pity Miss Gray did not do us the
favour of mentioning the circumstance,' said
Mrs. Prior icily, while John Prior took no notice
of the turn the conversation had taken, unless
by a restless movement, akin to a weary shrug,
which said that nothing signified much. That
revelation was what might have been expected.
Jack's friends or enemies were no business of
his father's, beyond the fact that either were
pretty sure to be an annoyance, for where Jack
was there was mischief. Miss Gray had been a
nice girl enough, and all had gone smoothly till
Jack had appeared on the scene, when, presto !
Miss Gray, of whom everybody had thought so
much, was found to have been imposing upon
them the whole time, and another vexatious
and objectionable entanglement of Jack's had
come to light.

In despair Bennet played on. She did not
know what she was playing, but she felt she

must be making horrible discord with her hands
if they reflected her state of mind. This was
Jack's disinterested owning and claiming of her
before his kindred on which she had plumed
herself, for which he was to have had so much
credit  this standing at the first brunt, bending
down over the paper which everybody there
knew he was not reading or even seeing, hanging
his head and saying not a word after the
slip of the tongue which had compromised them
both ! This was not particularly heroic behaviour.
But what could he have done at the
time and under the circumstances ? It was not
likely that he would stamp and stride to her
side, draw her arm through his, and announce
to his father, on whom he was dependent, and
to the rest of the family  full of another pressing
care, ' This is my future wife. This is your
future daughter and sister, who has been living
for these many months unsuspected in the
house, serving you for hire.' The conventionalities
and probabilities of the situation, which

Bennet lead ignored in her glad anticipation of
the tableau, ought to have been taken into
account.

While one of the suspects was breaking
the intolerable silence with a crashing noise,
Susie shifted her seat to one next Jane's and
poured out her feelings to her sister. ' I told
you so, and if it was not Mat, it had been Jackall
the time. She must be a perfect intrigante.
What a woman to have in the house with us !
I remember how Jack glared the evening he
came back, when I spoke of the governess
here. I saw that there was something wrong.
I thought he was in a scrape with a girl
beneath him, but I did not follow it out and
connect it with this girl. I should not have
thought that she could have had the audacity
to come here. Oh, and I gave inn such a
pat piece of advice,' and Susie began to titter
in a way that was ominous of the hysterics to
which Jane had said her sister was liable.

Oh, hush, Susie, for shame,' cried Jane

under her breath, and Susie did hush in an
instant to what Germans call ' a mouse stillness,'
when a servant with a particularly grave
air entered and said that Mr. Crabtree of Hay-bridge
was in the library washing to speak to
Mr. Prior. Mr. Crabtree would not come upto
the drawing-room to disturb the ladies at so
late an hour.

There was one good in these two entirely
distinct and different sources of excitement
and anxiety, that they seemed to balance and
neutralise each other, just as a sick man with
a brain ailment is said to have the current of
disease diverted from the original channel and
another chance of recovery granted to him by
an attack of lung complaint. There is a limit to
our capacity for astonishment, anger, apprehension.
Having reached, or nearly reached, the
limit at the first assault on our nerves and
tempers, we have not unstinted forces to draw
on for the second charge made on us from
an opposite quarter.

Mr. Prior was out of the room before the
messenger had done speaking. Susie's eyes
seemed to stand in her head as the others
exchanged startled glances.

What is it ? ' she demanded, almost wildly.
Mat has no right to come like this. I am
entitled to hear first. Has Lamb come ?
Has he said anything? I will be told at
once. I am going to them.'

She was on her way to the door when a new
impulse seized her. She shrank back and sank
into a chair, weeping passionately, and resentfully
repulsing her mother and Jane when
they came to her and sought to comfort her.
'You know nothing about it. Why should
you care ? '

Jack was not among the would-be comforters,
kind to soft-heartiness as he had
shown himself hitherto. He remained standing
aloof, with the air partly of a man ina
suppressed rage, partly dazed and thunderstruck.
He was like one who cannot bring

himself to admit  who fights hard against the
conviction that he is wounded to the quick,
sick with loathing, appalled and outraged to
the very centre of his being. The same look,
wondering, questioning, horrified, had come
over him in a faint and flitting fashion with the
first news of the robbery, but he had put aside
the recollection which lay at the root of the
sensations with something like fierce shame.
He had trampled it with all his might underfoot,
being stern and stubborn in his unbelief.
He had been helped by the tumult of other
interests  the most important to him  which
had come between and usurped his attention.
But now the evil foretaste of unexampled
misfortune and disgrace was again upon him,
and he could not go forward and try to soothe
Susie ; he could only writhe under what seemed
to him abject and helpless wretchedness.

The suspense did not last long. Mr. Prior,
in common humanity to his daughter, came
back in a few minutes to say, not only that Mat

Crabtree was gone, but to explain that the
errand he had come upon had no immediate
connection with Lambert Crabtree-  who was
not returned, nor, for that matter, with the
robbery. It was simply a detail of bank
business which Mr. Crabtree had ridden over
to report. As John Prior made the brief
statement to all whom it might concern, his
deep-set eyes looked more sunken than ever
under their pent-house brows, and his underlip
quivered so that he could scarcely hold it
tight to render his words plain. His wife,
who, under the individual blow which had
been dealt at her, still watched her husband
narrowly, trembled in sympathy with his
repressed agitation, but nobody doubted his
words.

Susie composed herself. She glanced up
like a child with a fluttering smile beginning
to hover again over her mouth, and the teardrops
still hanging on her long lashes. She
claimed from all around her the concession

VOL. II. Q

that after lie had borne up wonderfully
throughout the affair, it was little wonder
that she had broken down at last. She
allowed herself to be taken away to her room
with the expression of the sweetest of
martyrs.

Everybody retired. The ill-starred evening
had come to a close. Bennet Gray was at
liberty to bemoan herself in private, a good
deal more quietly, but certainly as sincerely
as Susie had been doing in the family circle
half an hour before. Bennet was seeing
plainly in the end how wrong she had been,
what a silly deception she had practised, what
a foolish romance she had indulged in. It all
appeared doubly wrong, silly, and foolish in
the reality of the trial which had befallen the
Priors. Bennet would be punished. For this
painful experience was the first result of the
explanation on which even that morning, and
during the journey from Oxford, she had still
been confidently and complacently counting.

But Jack could not help himself, poor dear
fellow ! Bennet stuck to that conclusion not
incorrectly. He had not trained himself in
deceit as she had done, and already he had
been snubbed and sat upon all round, instead
of being received with open arms, as he should
have been. What actual harm had he done ?
Whom had he injured save himself  at least as
Bennet put it to herself when she stood convicted
of sophistical reasoning, he had injured
himself worst of all, and for the injury to
others there was ample reparation in store, if
they would but wait and take it. But even his
mother  oh, dear ! oh, dear !  here was ' the
most unkindness cut of all.' The only thing
worse was that the chapter of disasters had
happened on the evening of the day, long
looked and prayed for, of Jack's return to
Bennet, and after the secret triumph of what
had occurred in his absence, which was to
have burst on those interested with all the
 Q 2

glory of the denouement of a fairy tale  the
transformation scene of a pantomime.

Bennet Gray was a woman rather of tender,
tenacious affections than of strong passions.
She had been extremely fond of Mrs. Prior,
both for her own sake and for Jack's. Bennet
had been very proud of winning Mrs. Prior's
regard. The girl had looked forward in the most
shortsighted style  clever woman though she
was  to the exquisite reward of letting Jack
see what his mother thought of her, as well
as what she thought of his mother, and of
winning the son's pardon no less than her
own for the concealment they had practised.
Bennet had coveted the generous satisfaction
which not every wife or husband is wise
enough to impart to her or his mate, of
showing Jack unmistakably that his mother
was her mother in very truth, as his people
were her people, and she trusted humbly and
reverently his God was her God. The fair
fabric was dashed to the ground

She used to be so glad to see me back,'
lamented poor Bennet simply, 'but she did
not care to have me again this time. She
was too much put out by Jack's having
stayed away, and I suppose she connected me
intuitively with his delay, though really I don't
know that I had anything to do with it beyond
the fact that he heard I was going with Jane
to Oxford. 1 don't know what took him to
Susie first, or what she said to him  no good,
I am afraid. She kissed me when I went
away. I don't mean that Susie kissed me 
she would not have gone so far as to dab a
schoolmistress's cheek, and I should not have
cared if she had. I cannot help thinking
Susie's kisses, like her tears, are crocodile
productions, though she is to be pitied just
now, poor little society queen. I mean my
dear ]airs. Prior, the most magnanimous and
kindest of unappreciated women, and I seemed
to carry off her kiss on my lips like a blessing
Jack's mother's blessing on my head. Will

she ever kiss me again ? When shall I be able
to iersuacle her that I have not taken her son
from her  not really, not more than any other
woman would have taken him, and she would
not have wished him to remain single for her
sake  to have gone without a wife, Jack, of
all men ! When will she believe that I did
not steal into her good graces, and cheat her
into caring for me ?  when I did, I did 1 Mea
culpa. When will Jane, who stood by me
even in her sturdy truth, believe in me once
more? Mary Burton was right  it would
have been ever so much wiser, better, honest
in all respects, if I had let matters take their
course  if I had waited to be introduced to
Jack's family in the ordinary way. Now,
when I tell them of my money it will be like a
bribe flung in their faces to close their mouths.
And the whole family are so worried about
the robbery of that detestable Lambert Crab-tree's
bank, that to introduce my affairs is like
an impertinent intrusion, while, in place of

being able to comfort them, I am only causing
them fresh chagrin and affront.'

To a woman of Bennet Gray's cast of
character the punishment which she thus
shadowed forth for herself was severe.

CHAPTER XI.

JACK PRIOR AND MAT CRABTREE RIDE OJN" A JOINT
ERRAND.

John Prior had to give his son a commission
to execute for him next morning. The elder
man, besides being fretfully anxious to hear
what was passing at Newton, had business to
see to in the town, while he could not bring
himself to go there. His nerves were in a
jarred and shattered state from having been
long stretched on the rack. He felt as if he
could not stand having more screws and
pincers applied to his quivering flesh. He
shrank even from trivial encounters, and he
was beginning to cling more and more to solitude
as the best refuge for a stricken man.

He gave Jack a cheque to a considerable
amount on Crabtree's bank, and sent him in to
Newton to cash it. 

John Prior held no partnership in the bank,
such as had been proposed to him at the time
of Susie's marriage. He would not countenance
his son-in-law even to that extent; besides, the
squire of Eedcot needed all his resources for
the expenses of his mines. On the other hand,
he had been, for his own convenience, one of
the larger depositors at the bank. Lately,
after he had heard from Lambert Crabtree's
own lips what sounded confirmation strong of
sundry disquieting rumours of shakiness in the
affairs of the once flourishing firm, John Prior
had acted like himself. He had behaved with
a curious mixture of reckless disdain and generous
forbearance, in only beginning to withdraw
partially and gradually the amount of his ready
money that was in the bank. He had taken
no decisive step which could have farther endangered
the concern and precipitated a crisis

by removing at once, and in a lump, the sum
to his credit.

It had become absolutely necessary that
John Prior should act on the defensive from
the positive information he had received the
night before, without any breach of confidence
or divergence of professional knowledge, for
Mat Crabtree was not a partner in his brother's
bank any more than John Prior was. Mat had
succeeded to the position of a junior partner
when he became squire of Haybridge, but
almost at the commencement of his brother's
reign the elder man had differed from the
younger on the question of the latter 's management
of the business. Mat Crabtree had withdrawn
from the responsibility of a partnership
all the sooner, no doubt, that, like John
Prior, he wanted his capital for his own purposes,
the improvement of his land and stock,
so that Mat; too, was but a depositor in the
bank which had been his father's and grandfather's.
But he knew enough from former

experience to recognise the first symptoms of
serious mischief. He scarcely needed the premonitory
growing of wrath and fright from
the remaining partners, who, though they were
all more or less subsidiary to Lambert Crabtree,
had, on the alarm of the robbery, hastily called
a meeting without waiting for the return of the
head of the bank.

The doubt was whether any precautionary
measure would not now be taken too late ;
but, in time or not in time, John Prior could
not nerve himself to make it personally. He
could not ride in to Newton with the intention
of presenting his cheque over the bank counter
and see what he expected to see in the town.
The words might not be spoken to him, but he
would hear ringing in his ears what everybody
was saying of the scandalous extravagance of
Lambert Crabtree and Susie, his wife, so conspicuously
displayed with a brazen face within
the very week. This was an extravagance
which, together with its usual accompaniment,

a mad haste to grow rich, had largely contributed
to a public calamity. Worse than
that, he, John Prior, would be conscious in his
inmost soul that it was possible he might, by
a word of his mouth, have prevented ruin and
misery beginning with his own flesh and blood,
and spreading far and wide.

For the first time in his life the squire of
Eedcot shirked an absolute obligation, and
called on another man to pay the penalty due
from his neighbour.

True, it was Jack his father pitched upon
Jack, who knew nothing, whose scatterbrains,
where the grave conduct of his life had
been in question, would not have been Hkely
to have either profited or suffered by any
amount of business knowledge. If a man
coidd not take advantage of his own thoughtless,
useless son on such an emergency, what
more irresponsible substitute was there any
hope of his finding ?

Jack complied with his father's request

without offering an objection, though he had
reasons of his own which made Newton and
Crabtree's Bank highly distasteful to him that
morning. The young man would rather have
hung about the house at Eedcot on the precious
chance of another tete-astute with Bennet Gray,
perhaps a stroll with her, on the apology supplied
by the presence of the children, as far as
the mill, or the barn, or the cunning labyrinth
which led to the rose garden. He would even
have been thankful for an opportunity of coming
to an explanation with his mother or Jane,
But neither among Jack's attractive qualities,
nor among his failings, had there been developed
hitherto a facility in saying No ; and,
as he looked more directly at his father when
he was speaking to him, a painful conviction
smote upon Jack. How his father had aged
since he (Jack) had gone away, and how
terribly cut up the governor must be about
this abominable robbery 1 Poor old fellow, he
had chafed sufficiently about his (Jack's) lack

of brains, how would he look if  if . But

no, such baseness and degradation could never
be  it was all a hideous dream, a ghastly delusion.
Of course he would do what he could
to be of any use. He was secretly pleased that
his father had not been above applying to him
for the smallest assistance which had been
John Prior's repellent attitude to his son
formerly. Jack wished to Heaven he had not
been such a heedless ass, and had been a little
more comfort to his father.

So the young squire of Eedcot rode in
betimes on a sultry, cloudy, summer morning
to Newton, and there he saw such a sight as
amidst more personally overwhelming spectacles
he never afterwards forgot. In the first place,
he met Mat Crabtree also on horseback. He
had turned aside, and was spurring along in
order to intercept John Prior or his representative.
The road was not in general much
frequented, leading, as it did, only to a few scattered
country houses and cottages, and as yet

there were not many wayfarers. Nobody was
within hearing when the elder man drew bridle
the instant he spied the other rider, and called to
him  ' Make haste, Jack, the whole town and
country are up and flocking to the High Street.
Your one chance is to push through on your
beast as far as the bank door, and be among
the first comers. You must do it. Your father
cannot be left penniless.'

But it is not bank hours,' protested Jack ;
the bank doors will not be open.'

Ay. my lad ; but there is a host of claimants
waiting for the opening. You must get
into the front rank and head the host.'

Mat Crabtree had turned, and was riding
rapidly along with Jack. He looked eager,
flushed, and excited. His manly face seemed
to have recovered the lines of its earlier manhood
; instead of looking older he held his
whitening head erect and squared this broad
shoulders. He was in the thick of the battle,
and he warmed to it, and would fight it to the

end, though he knew it was a losing game.
And behind this morning's struggle and clamour
there lay a load as of lead on his breast,
a burden which would send him scouring the
country on a hopeless quest before the sun
went down.

I remember something of the same kind
iu 18  ,' Mat Crab tree told Jack Prior out of
the elder man's experience, mentioning a year
memorably fatal in trading and banking annals,
'but it was a trifle to this. There was still
something to be done. The case was by no
means beyond recovery. I was a partner then,
and was with some of the other partners in the
bank parlour, when the crowd came streaming
into the street. But we were able to meet the
run. Old Fairfax was alive, and he was
wonderfully shrewd and cool. He had anticipated
the panic after the failure of Ford &
Wethers. He had gone up to London for
gold, and got it and brought it down by a
special engine after midnight. We kept one

half of the door shut, and admitted the applicants
in single file, paying in full without a
moment's delay. Before the afternoon half of
the people had gone home ashamed to present
their books or our paper, and the throng was
no greater than on an ordinary market day.'

Can't it be done again .? ' Jack asked
naturally enough.

Mr. Crabtree shook his head, and] his face
fell like a soldier's when he has been beguiled
into giving the tactics of a past victory, but is
recalled to face the signs of an impending
defeat.

Is it the robbery which has played the
deuce ? ' asked Jack, his voice sinking and
thickening, while he kept his eyes fixed on his
horse's head. ' At the same time, I do not see
how that can be when the money has been
recovered.'

It is the robbery in part,' answered Mat
Crabtree shortly, in the tone of a man referring
to a subject which he did not care to discuss

VOL. II. R

any more than Jack cared. ' It shook the
jjiibhc confidence, which was already tottering,
and did not recover from the shock, though it
turned out that the bank had sustained no loss.
The attempted robbery gave the alarm, and
between you and me. Jack  for I believe there
is no further possibility of concealment  everything
is in a mess; long-drawn bills that ought
never to have been granted, rotten securities
which ought not to have been taken up, funds
wasted. My brother was always rash and absurdly
sanguine. Metcalfee is no better, and he,
too, has been betting on the turf and indulging
in similar vices and follies for a man in his
position. He has been cutting a dash and
going at a pace which would have brought him
down any time these five years had it not
been for the unfortunate bank at his back.
There was a mighty difference in my father's
day, but that is a story long gone by. Only
one of that set of partners survives, poor old
superannuated Hutchinson, and he is trustworthy

enough, though he may not be able to
retain the clutch of his monev-baos which he
has gripped so long. The younger men will
have to account, and Lambert first of all,' said
Mat Crabtree, setting his face sternly.

Jack Prior could only mutter he was sorry,
without any absorbing pity for his brother-in-law.
He had a tolerable share of what was
likely to be the public's sweeping condemnation
of the man who had bidden for its favour
swaggering and with a fair amount of success,
while the delusion lasted.

The worst of it is Coplestone's bonds,'
said Mat Crabtree, almost with a groan, fain
to make a clean breast of it, even to no more
qualified a councillor than Jack Prior, before
the two entered on the sharp contest. ' These
bonds had been taken from the safe, and were
not found with the bank notes after the robbery.
The police have not discovered any
trace of the papers. The poor beggar  a
good sore who never considered himself 

E 2

is invalided. He has stayed too long at his
post out in India, where he has been baked
and battered, seeing service far up the country
in order to make the future safer for his wife
and children. Now, when he has more reason
than ever to be convinced that soldiering is a
poor trade, he returns  I expect him on the
scene at any moment, he may arrive in the
middle of the racket, this very morning, though
God forbid  to find the nest-egg on which he
married gone, and his family not provided with
more than bread and water after all.'

'What are you going to do, Mr. Crabtree.'
inquired Jack doubtfully.

Nothing, sir, save see fair play,' answered
Mat Crabtree grimly. 'What can I do . I
may be mortally ashamed that I resigned my
trust and sold out nearly twenty years ago,
though I did no wrong. I cannot see yet,
while I keep my senses, that it was not the
best thing I could do.'

I don't see how anybody can find fault

with you,' said Jack. ' How could you guess
what would happen a score of years beforehand
? '

I don't know,' said Mat Crabtree bitterly ;
yet, upon my soul, lad, I had rather at
this moment that I had remained a partner,
because of the name I bear. I might have
restrained Lambert, though he was at the
head of the concern, if only by being a drag
upon him. But now, though I were to sell
Haybridge tomorrow, and divide it piecemeal
among the poor creatures who have been
robbed of their savings and deprived of their
incomes, it would not be a mouthful to each.
What would become of your sister Susie and
her children? It is not just, it is not honest,
that every burden should fall on your father.'

My father will do his part,' said Jack
hastily and gruffly. ' Your brother may not
have been the only person to blame. I mean,'
he added quickly, ' Susie is as good at cutting
a dash and throwing away money as the best.'

Mat Crab tree was following the current
of his thoughts, and not paying much heed
to the hesitating plea, put in awkwardly, and
as with a reservation of meaning no less than
of determination.

The most needy,' went on Mat Crabtree,
may have the benefit of what little money
is lying in my name, though the greater
probability is that it is the greedy and
importunate who will chiefly profit by it.
But anyhow I would not have the face to
anticipate them and make good my claim.
There have been no bonds hitherto over
Haybridge, and I can raise the wind in that
way as well as many another and better man,
I daresay,' he said with a sigh, speaking more
to himself than to Jack Prior. 'And after
I have stood guard over the weakest in this
morning's work, I shall follow the principal
offender though he were ten times my brother,
and bring him back to do what he can to
atone for his offence, if he has a man's heart

left in him.' Mat Crabtree ground the last
words through his teeth. ' That is about the
sum-total of what I am able to do for the
sufferers by the failure of Crabtree's Bank.'

Not a word had Mat Crabtree or Jack
Prior spoken of Bennet Gray ; not a thought
had they spent on her. For, though love
stands between birth and death the greatest
earthly factor in human existence, the giant
power is at rest for long intervals and does
not by any means pervade every idea and
action of the man.

The two riders were already on the
outskirts of the town where it was entered
from the railway station. As the men came
in sight of the road, 'Look there, Jack,'
said Mat Crabtree, indicating numerous groups
of old and young, men and women, some of
them in working clothes, the pedestrians
making their way as fast as they could hurry
towards the church end of the High Street,
in which the bank stood. There was in

addition a considerable sprinkling of market-carts,
dog-carts, and old-fashioned gigs heavily
freighted with human cargoes.

Crabtree's Bank stood in a peculiar relation
to the town and neighbourhood. At the date
of its establishment there had been no other
bank in the place, and the gentleman who
founded the firm, a man at once sagacious
and kindly, had afforded the greatest facilities
which the laws and customs of banking would
allow for the use of the bank by the smallest
admissible depositors, thus antedating the
savings bank, which had only taken a slight
hold on Newton. Crabtree's Bank had included
in addition to its richer clients a large leaven of
the small tradesmen, yeomen  farmer, well-to-do
mechanic, and upper servant class. In later
years when available investments multiplied
on all sides, and still more recently, when
suspicions of the bank's stability began to be
whispered warily, those most in the way of
hearing the whispers and most able to do

what they would with capital, had withdrawn
to a considerable extent from the old enterprise.
The threatened calamity was likely to fall most
heavily on the less well-provided, well-informed
folk, who in other circumstances would have
patronised a savings bank. It was this portion
of the community, apt to be impulsive and
demonstrative, whose

Manners have not the repose

Which stamps the caste of Vere de Vere,'

that were rapidly assembling in Newton
streets.

There was no loitering, dallying holiday air
about the gathering crowd. Their faces were
Hke flint, as had been said of men of old. The
wayfarers pressed on as if goaded by an
errand which would not let them rest. It
forbade them to turn their eyes to the right
or the left. It gagged even women's mouths,
so that the tongues within wagged only on
the one engrossing topic, and did that in
jerking sentences and sii ogle monosyllables

There would be time enough for those
interested to pour out their souls in shamefaced
repentance or in righteous indignation
and fierce denunciation when the devouring
anxiety gnawing at every heart was allayed
or when all was lost. Now breath was wanted
for speed and caution  nay, cunning came
into request, that each candidate might gain
on another, and, if possible, outrun his neighbour.


Some of the women carried market baskets
to conceal the bearers' real intent, or from
a mechanical notable habit of improving every
opportunity of visiting the town. Others, the
more reckless or the weaker vessels, openly
held fast by slim little books, treasured and
conned as few weighty tomes have been faithfully
studied, or clutched homely purses stuffed
with bank notes, which had been as good as
gold this morning, yet might be little better
than waste-paper before night.

CHAPTER XII.

A BROKEN BANK.

When Mr. Crabtree and Jack Prior were fairly
into the town the various groups resolved
themselves into a living mass through which
there was difficulty in penetrating on horseback.
The two men, carefully guiding their
horses, had time to contemplate Newton under
a third aspect  not grinning and prancing as
on a yearly festival, not gaping and staring
at the tale of a crime committed in the midst
of them yet apart from them  but hand in
pocket and heart in mouth, in sharp dread
of a theft which should have stolen from each
man or woman his or her piece of money,
hardly earned and religiously kept. For this

was no gathering of the rich who could
preserve their polite equanimity under the
temporary locking up, or even the entire
loss of considerable sums in Crabtree's Bank ;
because the losers would not feel sensibly the
worse of the misfortune, or else might hope
to retrieve the disaster. To those who canthus
lose and win by turns in the game of
trade an adverse stroke comes as part of the
day's obligations, and is taken as a matter of
course  to be balanced in a debit and credit
account, to settle which a lifetime is needed.
But this was a hand-monmouth if respectable
mob  many of its members the old, the disabled,
the feeble, who had yet contrived to
scrape together a pittance for a rainy day  a
pittance which, if scattered to the winds, would
never be painfully collected again.

Instinctively Mat Crabtree and Jack Prior
shrank from individual recognition. They had
no wish to know and be known by injured
men and women, whose injuries the better

equipped new-comers could not heal. But,
as the couple slowly made their way in the
centre of the throng, even Jack Prior, who
was much less at home in Newton than Mat
Crab tree, could not fail to identify homely
figures striving for precedence with a strange,
tragic element of fixedness and fatality of
circumstance in their very convulsive eagerness.


Yonder was the big old yeoman, more
slouching in figure and less ruddy in colour
than formerly, who had sold his inheritance
of Ladslove for deliverance from a debt which
he had never contracted unless in becoming
surety for its payment. What was left over
of the purchase money had set him up as a
coal agent. But even the Bank House patronage
had not caused the leased coal ard, so
grimy an exchange for the paternal fields, to
flourish. It flourished the less, doubtless,
because the ale-house had become the more
congenial resort to the broken-down man.

The coal bank was pledged already, and if the
slender store of ready-money in Crab tree's
Bank were gone also, the ex-yeoman was in a
worse condition than a day labourer, who
could hire himself out tomorrow and earn
enough by the sweat of his brow to keep his
wife and sick daughter from starving.

The elderly woman in a thick jacket and
battered straw bonnet, who was squaring her
shoulders and elbowing a path for herself like
a man, was Widow Maxey, who had been left
an unprotected female with a house full of
young children a quarter of a century before.
The family's sole means of support were the
horse and cart with which her late husband
had driven coals from the Kershaw heaps,
before the railway and the agencies which had
sprung up in its track had come into play.
She had been a comely young woman then,
when she put her shoulder to the wheel and
entered the ranks of the carters. . She had
izrown weather-beaten, and learned to smoke

a tobacco-pipe in self-defence against the
elements, but had shown no worse signs of
deterioration. On the contrary, she had maintained
a spotless reputation which no man
dared assail, in her Amazonian occupation and
surroundings. But toil and exposure had told
upon her robust constitution, so that she had
aged rapidly, and had been forced by rheumatism
to resign her seat at the head of the
cart, yield her whip to a half-grown lad, her
son, and return, perforce, to the corner of the
hearth. It had become as much alien ground
to her as it .would have been to a man overtaken
by infirmity, cut off from an active out-of-doors
life, and reduced to hang about the
house, in which he was a useless and listless
supernumerary. Widow Maxey had only become
reconciled to her abdication because,
as was well known, she had remained in possession
of the sinews of war  that is the actual
proprietorship of the horse and cart, in addition
to her savings. She had been for years

proposing to lay the savings out in the
purchase of a new horse, to replace the worn-out
animal which had in its turn replaced her
husband's old mare. She had held frequent
solemn consultations on the important transaction,
which was never likely to take place,
with Jack Prior, for she was one of Jack's
Kershaw acquaintances. He dreaded to meet
her eye now, as if he was at the bottom of her
cruel disappointment.

It was still harder for Mat Crabtree than
for Jack in the meUe since Mat not only knew
dozens where Jack knew one person involved,
but these persons, by common consent, appealed
to the squire of Haybridge to see justice done.
It was exactly what he was seeking to do, butin
a far less effectual manner than they were
quick to conceive. They knew him as one
of the Crabtrees, who had always owned the
bank ; nay, as the elder brother of the banker.
Mat had a name for liberality and kindness,
and - the suppliants could not realise how

powerless he was in the emergency. 'You'll
see us paid, Mr. Crabtree, won't ye ? ' was the
unanimous, importunate cry. ' We might
never have had ought to do with the bank if
it had not been for your name  the name of
your father, as was well known far and near
for a j must and honourable gentleman, the friend
of the people. Lord, when he were made
Mayor  you must mind, squire, for you're
not a young man yourself  he found work for
every idle hand in the town. His son will not
see us robbed and cheated of our all.'

Harrowing details were spread out without
disguise for Mat Crabtree's reluctant inspection.
A long, lean man, a gardener, who had
been conspicuous for his aggressive respectability
and the crustiness which has distinguished
all gardeners since Adam partook of
the fatal apple, was the first to be betrayed
into sentiment. ' It was my lad's money  my
lad as were wild and went off to be a lodger,'
said the father with trembling lips; 'but he

VOL. II. s

has taken up and riz to be a corporal, and we
were main proud, the lad's mother and me,
afore the neighbours, when he kept sending us
home shares of his pay as he fought and bled
for. We didn't spend a farthing of the
money ; bless you ! we would have starved
first. We kept it against Ned's return, that
it might be all awaiting him though we were
in our graves. Surely, sir, no strange swindler,
let alone a townsman, one of the old country
gentry, would touch what was the price of a
brave man's blood ? '

You must mind us, Mister Crabtree, my
sister Ann and me,' pled a scarecrow of a
Httle woman, with a bunch of faded roses
stuck jauntily in the round hat meant to cover
her grey head. ' I'd never have been so bold
as to bring us back to your recollection,
though we did do plain sewing for Madam,
your mother, when she came in from Hay-bridge
to the Bank House in winter, as the
family were wont to do in your honoured

father's lifetime. But Ann has gone blind,
and there is only me to trust to, as is not so
strong as I 'ave been. We would have been
in the workhouse afore now, if it had not been
for the legacy a well-to-do cousin were worked
on to leave us. We took the advice of your
respected brother, Mr. Lambert, and he bought
a bank share with our legacy, for which we
drew the interest regular. We had not wished
to touch the principal as long as we could help
it. We kep' it to bury the last of we two.
Oh, sir, Ann won't see the road she's going 
that's one comfort, but it will break her poor
heart  as were broken already in her youth
by the false lies of a journeyman tailor  to die
in a workhouse.'

What could Mat Crabtree do but push
forward, looking neither to right nor left, and
muttering, ' Yes, yes,' as the Iron Duke looked
and spoke, when he was beset by the London
populace clamouring for nothing more personal

than justice to foolish, hardly used Queen
Caroline.

As Jack Prior had conjectured, the clock
on the' church tower close to the bank had not
struck the hour for the bank's opening. But
the pressure was so great round the building
that he had some trouble in following his
companion's example. They had to edge in
their horses like mounted policemen on a
public show-day, so as not to produce another
description of panic and stampede, till the
riders found themselves stationed as if on
guard on each side of the great bank doors.
Other horsemen and a variety of vehicles
were in attendance, but none had got so far
forward, none had been made way for like
these two.

Jack spared a passing thought that it was a
mercy Susie was not within the Bank House,
which was left to the servants and the police,
for no woman's heart, however innocent, could
well have stood the sight. Then he set himself

to endure in company with Mat Crabtree a
bad quarter of an hour.

From their saddles the two men commanded
a sea of heads which filled an open space into
which the street suddenly spread after the
fashion of some old-world streets. It left room
for a small green, with an old elm in the
centre, and behind it the parish church, with
its square Norman tower. This was the aristocratic
as well as the ecclesiastical centre of
Newton. Good old houses, with white facings
round the long French windows, and pillared
entrances to extensive gardens, marked the
quarter. The house next the church was the
vicarage, other houses belonged to the principal
doctor, the principal lawyer, the retired
military and naval officers  a few specimens
of whom are generally found settled in a
country town. But the bank and the Bank
House, quite a spacious pile of masonry, cast
all the other buildings into the shade. This
bit of Newton, even on market days, when the

chief business was done at the bank, preserved
an air of dignified repose which was not easily
disturbed. The present scene formed a remarkable
contrast. Fustian jackets jostled
lingering smock frocks, country-made coats
kept rustic plaid shawls in company, and
tradesmen in shirt sleeves lent countenance
to respectable women with no other covering
for their heads than the housewives' caps, in
which the wearers would not willingly have
been seen abroad on any occasion save one of
life and death. But men and women had been
suddenly infected with the fever which was
raging, and had rushed out as they were
dressed, from behind their counters and from
their domestic work, without so much as waiting
to whip on coats and bonnets. Many of
the mothers were of necessity lugging children,
and the unconscious creatures, unaffected by
the silence and suspense tugging at every
mature heart, raised at intervals a clamour of
their owen, which broke with startling discordance

on what was by comparison the
unnatural quiet.

As the crowd waited  growing always
denser, a stir and motion fluttering its edges,
the turning of many faces and a hum of suppressed
exclamation, showed that by some of
those unaccountable modes of communication
that convey news of general import with the
speed of lightning, fresh tidings had reached
the throng. The train had arrived with the
London newspapers, and in the hist of bankrupts
figured the name of ' James Metcalfee,
Gentleman.' This was the bank partner to
whom Mat Crabtree had referred in conversation
with Jack Prior half an hour before asa
man who cut a dash like Lambert, who had
been going at such a pace for years that only
a bank behind him could have kept him up.
James Metcalfee had spoken the first word in
the controversy about to be entered upon
between himself as a bank partner and the
other partners and customers of the back. Ee

had frankly announced himself impecunious asa
private person, whatever he was as a public
character.

Smothered groans of jealous rage responded
to this further darkening of the
horizon. ' He were in the town driving four-in-hand
not a month agone,' cried one voice.
His wife and daughter were presented to the
Queen this very spring,' cried another. ' I
seed his name, leastways his horse's, in a list
of the runners at some dashed races,' chimed
in a third.

Ay, races and balls, fine clothes, and fine
eating, them's the ways of the gentlefolks, and
we pay the piper,' growled a humble cynic.

Hold on,' remonstrated a volunteer, a
self-complacent little man, who was loyal in his
self-complacency, and at the same time oppressed
by the consciousness that the squire of
Haybridge and young Prior of Kedcot were at
his elbow. 'Gentlefolks ain't all alike anymore
than we are. I take it there are good,

bad, and indifferent among them as among
smaller fry, and I for one won't hear a word
till it be fairly proven against the Colonel. I'm
a volunteer. I ain't in any ways ashamed of it,
and Colonel Crabtree is as hearty and free as
any gentleman or officer need be. It is a mean
dodge  yes, I say it is a low, dirty trick to
come down upon him like this, when his back
is turned too, after all he has done for the troop
and the town -just because he has had the misfortune
to have his bank robbed.'

We are seeking no more than our own,'
his hearers defended themselves with one voice
dull, decisive, and striking with sledgehammer
weight. 'It is better to be just
than to be generous,' ' His back is turned ?
Whose fault is that's Why don't Mr. Lambert
Crabtree show face and render up his
accounts ? '

Mat Crabtree sat like a stone while he tried
to turn a deaf ear. Jack Prior winced and
fumed and involuntarily kicked with his heels

till he was recalled to what he was about
by his long-suffering horse threatening to
rear.

Another pause and another commotion
aroused the pent-up crowd. ' Eh ! what was
it ? What do you say ? ' ' Old Mr. Hutchinson
taken with a fit  doctor galloping out like
mad  not thought patient will live over the
day  another of the bank partners ! ' ' The
judgment of Heaven, do you think ? But the
old man were clean past business. He were
the age of father, I've heard him tell. Judgment
should begin nigher-hand with the able-bodied
and capable.'

The brooding heat of a lowering, sultry
morning made the circumstances harder to
bear. The whole outlook suggested a bad
thunderstorm  another sign to the ignorant
and credulous, who are fond of signs of the
wrath of God against the unrighteous dealings
of men. Would the church clock never strike ?
Had it been tampered with too . Had its

machinery run down to defer the evil hour
which must come P

At last, with a creak and swing, the ponderous
double doors opened, and revealed pale,
anxious faces of bank officials at their posts
before the human tide began to pour in. Jack
sprang from his horse, a bank porter took the
bridle, instinctively a passage was yielded to
young Prior of Eedcot ' till he reached the
counter and had his father's cheque cashed in
the gold and Bank of England notes  of which
there were piles and rolls ready to meet the
demand upon them. But as for the Crabtree
bank notes they were nowhere, except in the
hands of many of the applicants. It was
clearly understood that as an issue from the
bank they were utterly rejected, till their
credit should be restored, if that day ever
dawned.

When Jack struggled out he saw Mat
Crabtree still immovable, to some extent
stemming the rush and preventing the stronger

from pushing aside and bearing down the
weaker.

Fair play Jack heard him call, in his
authoritative voice. ' Englishmen like fair
play.'

We'll be fair enough if your brother the
banker act fairly to us,' was called back
roughly in the passion of the moment, and
the squire of Haybridge stiffened into silence
as before.

Jack extricated himself and his horse, and
lingered on the outskirts of the company. He
was fain to see the end of the day's work,
whether the eager flow would relieve the
current eddying in one direction with fatal concentration
 whether the supply would meet the
demand after all. If the bank were saved sofar
as to escape being violently brought down,
it would have time given it to Avind up its affairs
calmly and in a sound mind, with the least
injury to all concerned. But even as Jack
waited and looked, by a quick strategic movement,

taking the pushing crowd unawares, the
heavy doors swung to in the very faces of the
front rank making good their entrance, and
presented to horror-stricken faces a placard
already affixed  ' Crabtree's Bank has stopped
payment till further notice.'

A muffled roar of baffled desire and despair
rose on the heavy air. Men gesticulated
furiously. Women hid their faces and wept
aloud. Jack could distinguish Mat Crabtree's
voice again from where he still sat on his horse
by the bank-doors. ' Men and women, I can
do nothing for you at this moment,' he told
those who pulled themselves together to listen.
Nobody can do anything in the meantime.
But go home. Have patience. A bank is not
crushed out of existence in a day. It has funds
and debts of its own to realise. There will be
dividends more or less, a ad the depositors are
paid first. It is the law of the land. Take
heart. I wish to heaven I could give you more
assurance. But I have another word to say to

you. I heard some of you say my brother
would not show face. Whether that be true
or not, I am going after him, and if he is alive
he will be here to answer to you.' He was gone
the next moment, steering his way so skilfully
through the crowd that it seemed as if it fell
apart and dissolved in its hopelessness and
heavy-heartiness. Mat outstripped Jack. The
latter had been detained by an inclination which
he could not resist, k. cripple who had overexerted
himself and was struck to the heart by
the fruitlessness of his exertions, staggered so
wildly, and showed himself so faint that he had
to be dragged out of the press. Jack cleared a
way and helped the man out, changing to his
stirrup.

Thank you, governor,' said the poor fellow,
wiping his wan face, ' it were the heat, and the
haste, and the money for the rent, which I might
have got yesterday, God help me, if I had
snowed to come in time.'

Jack fumbled in his breast pocket and secretly

thrust some of his father's guineas into
the shaking hand. Take that in your strait.
It is my father's, not mine ; but he would give
it to you willingly if he were here.'

CHAPTEE XIII.

MAT CRABTREE AND JOHN PRIOR BEAR THE
BURDEN.

Mat Crabtree was riding post-haste to Hay-bridge
before he started on his search, for which
he had no more clue than has been laid before
the reader. He was not without a notion that
Lambert might have taken refuge in his late
father's house in Mat's absence, doubling back,
like many another creature that feels itself at
bay, to its starting point. He was likely enough
to display the unrepentant prodigal's alacrity in
repairing to his injured relations  not to say
that he has sinned, but to dare them to dissever
the tie they did not knot, which has long been a
whip to scourge them. He would make it an

excuse for brazening out his offence and his
disgrace, and for demanding their aid to escape
just retribution.

In addition, Mat Crabtree had to set his
house in order for what might be an absence of
some duration. Lambert Crabtree might have
gone abroad by this time. He might have
reason to fear such disclosures as would render
it only prudent in him to retire precipitately
from the scene of action  either concealing his
identity or repairing to one or other of the few
refuges left, from which an international treaty
would not dislodge him.

Mat Crabtree rode with bent head and a
weight upon his breast, locking neither to his
sheep on the hill nor to his cattle in the
meadows. He could take no comfort from his
roomy white house, with the well-kept green
of turf and trees, and palings, which looked
wholesome, fresh, and bright even on this
breathless, lowering day. Crossing his threshold
he was met by his housekeeper, who,

VOL. II. T

before he could ask a question, gave him a
visitor's card.

Lambert would not offer a card at his
brother's house. The thought passed silently
across Mat's mind as he instinctively took up
the bit of pasteboard and read, ' Major Folkestone,
Ea.'

All the rosiness had gone out of Mat Crab-tree's
face vhen he confronted his visitor.
Mat was paler than the sallow invalid. When
the latter looked at honesty abashed in the
person of his host, he rose gallantly to the
occasion, and played a soldier and man's part
in remembering old friendship, and showing
himself just in awarding blame only where
blame was due.

Never mind, Mat,' he said, wringing the
hand he had to take ; ' it is not so bad that it
cannot be borne. I heard from my solicitor
the day after I landed that the bonds were
a missing. I was coming straight to Lambert
when I was told that he had not returned. I

learnt what was up in New ton. I knew I should
hear the truth from you, but 1 did not intend to
put you out. There is no use in crying over
spilt milk, eh ? ' with a grimace of his lank
jaws which might stand for a smile. ' It only
means going back to India with the dregs of a
life which would not have been much good
here now, and of trusting to the boys and girls
doing for themselves and looking after their
mother when I am gone. Perhaps it is best
for them, after all.'

I wish I could change places with you,
Jem Coplestone, I do indeed,' was Mat's sole
reply.

But the generous forbearance of the injured
man did the other good and helped him to
judge less harshly and be less resentful with
regard to his own share of the wrong which
had been inflicted so unsparingly.

The storm in the sky had burst and passed
away before Mat Crab tree set out again. The
sinking sun shone forth and gilded with a

tender light the raindrops which were hanging
thickly on every twig and leaf. The birds
began to sing their vesper hymn. The cattle
and sheep lowed and bleated in sympathy.
The whole earth looked tranquil, pure, and
sweet, as if its stains had been washed away ina
tempest of Heaven's tears, so that the world
of sin and sorrow was for a blessed moment
forgiven and at peace. The merciful blue sky
was overhead. There was only a soft bank of
pearly clouds far to the south to show where
the storm rack had rolled.

Mat was riding to a railway station, but
not to Newton. As it happened, he had taken
a road which his brother and he had often
traversed together as boys, when they went to
say their lessons with the vicar's sons at the
neighbouring vicarage. Lambert had looked
up to Mat in those far-off days. There had
been comradeship, common proprietorship, in
many cherished possessions and family affection,
till the inevitable separation, when the Cider

preceded the younger at a public school and at
college. But even then, when Lambert's time
came, he had been put under Mat's care. The
middle-aged man still remembered with what
anxious counsels from his father, what wistful
charges from his mother, the trust had been
given. How had he fulfilled his obligation
when his brother and he had drifted so far
apart ? Had he, the elder, been high-handed,
domineering, impatient? He had been a
scholar, while Lambert was but a sorry student.
He recalled his affront at the lad's deficiencies,
though it Aves small blame to Lambert that he
had not been endowed with the pondering
brains which make men book-learned. Would
that the lack were the worst which could be
laid at Lambert's door to-day. Mat, with his
cool head, his intellectual pursuits, his tendency
to fall among men who ' sapped ' and were
steady like himself, without much credit to
them, could not so much as comprehend the
temptations which visit lads like Lambert.

Indeed he, Mat, had quickly deprived himself
of any chance of comprehending them by the
intolerant dislike and contempt with which he
had shaken himself free from what he had
chosen to regard as disparaging associations,
and left Lambert to take his chance unhampered
by a supercilious preaching prig of
an elder brother. How would it have been
if he had been larger-hearted, more liberal-minded,
as a love of truth and knowledge
ought to have made him ?

Where was Lambert now ? What was this
miserable bank robbery which had been eclipsed
within the last few hours by the failure of the
bank. Who had been the thief or thieves, so
well acquainted with the details of the house
as not only to steal but to hide the booty upon
the premises? There was one thing to be
devoutly thankful for  all agreed that Lambert
had been absent. Jack Prior was the man who
had slept in the house, and it was impossible-to
suspect Jack.

Where had Lambert betaken himself to?
The  sweat-drops bathed Mat Crabtree's forehead
as he asked himself the question and
contemplated the hideous possibilities in such
cases. The perpetration of actual fraud added
to the misery caused by mingled greed and
spendthrift self-indulgence, bringing the man
within the clutches of the law, headed the list.
Then followed his name dishonoured throughout
the country, till all who bore it were constrained
to walk softly for the rest of their
days. Next came knavish, despicable flight to
avoid richly deserved punishment. This was
succeeded by wolfish remorse and Judas-hued
despair, impelling him to make an unwarrantable
exit from the waste, howling wilderness of
trouble into which his reckless steps had carried
him. He bequeathed the wilderness as a
fitting region for his unfortunate family and
friends to inhabit during the natural term
of their lives For the miserable catalogue
was wound up by an impious entrance, un-summoned,

into the ante-chamber of the King
of kings.

Over at Eedcot, John Prior was questioning
his son in the privacy of the father's study. It
was a faded room, with neglected bookcases
and a far less inhabited, not to say genial, air
than the library at Haybridge possessed. As
Jack looked round him he was assailed by
fragmentary recollections of trying interviews
with the head of the house following hard
upon youthful delinquencies, especially by that
most painful tete-astute when Jack had to
divulge to his father the extent of his college
failures and debts.

John Prior himself had for once forgotten
the unpalatable past in the grievous present.
And so it is ended,' he kept saying, as he
walked up and down the room. ' Crabtree's
Bank is broken. The scoundrel has ruined the
whole town and neighbourhood.'

It will be the worse for him.' Jack uttered
a platitude for want of anything better to say.

His father turned upon him.

The usual cant,' he said. ' He himself has
the worst of it ; he will find a pack of fools
ready to proclaim it, and so he appropriates the
very pity of the thing, after he has taken all
else  even if he end by shuffling off the coil on
weaker shoulders, and making away with his
dastardly self.'

Surely it will not come to that,' cried Jack,
aghast at this new suggestion. ' Susie '

Not a word more than you can help to
her, boy,' interrupted Mr. Prior, speaking so
hastily that both he and Jack failed to consider
how long it was since he had employed the
old familiar term, the sound of which nevertheless
thrilled the two men. ' Not a hint of what
I have said to your mother or any other of the
women. This is not a subject for them. Let
Lambert Crabtree stay away as long as he
chooses without awakening premature horrors
in their minds. They will hear soon enough if
anything has happened.'

It owns clear that John Prior could not take
the advice he gave, that he was conjuring up
terrible visions which any moment might realise.
It was curious how in his disordered frame
of mind, without any striking of colours or
declaration of amnesty, he sought companionship
from his son, and kept Jack with him
discussing the worst features of the calamity
and the blood-curdling dread which was not to
be whispered to the women. Jack's presence
served two purposes. He had not much knowledge
of business  indeed, his father had always
resented his son's ignorance in this respect 
but he knew a good deal more than the women.
He was, in proportion, a better qualified listener
to the calculations and speculations which the
stoppage of Crabtree's Bank called forth from
every man in the district.

More than that. Jack's hale young life
might keep away the ghosts that were in
imminent danger of intruding on John Prior
at this date. He saw them when he lingered

in that dim and cheerless study. He heard
them when he paced up pnd down behind
backs, amidst the antiquated glass and gilt of
the drawing-room, in the company of the ladies,
yet keeping himself and his heaviest cares and
worst alarms apart from the women. He both
heard and saw these importunate ghosts v/hen
he strolled out for a smoke or a breath of air,
and stood in the shadow of one or other of the
disused outbuildings, given over to the rats and
the bats, where he had held his interviews with
Mr. Isaac Evans. But the fantastic company
were most oppressive when he wandered instinctively
from mere habit as far as the quarry,
where the wild roses had shed their petals,
and nuts were beginning to form on the hazel
bushes.

More than one ghost became a constant
attendant on John Prior wherever he went.
One was a grisly, coarse, brawling ghost  that
of Lambert Crabtree as he had urged and
threatened on the gusty April day by the Eats'

Hitch in the Dutch clover-field at Ladylove.
Another was a dainty, girlish ghost, a strangely
incongruous figure, as she shrank out of sight
in the black and crape of the widow of a
fraudulent bankrupt suicide. And there was
the semblance of two children, with strongly-marked
hereditary traits, coming up hand-in-hand
to their grandfather to look him in the
face and demand why he had killed their father
and made them beggars.

So far as one woman was concerned, Mr.
Prior might have spared his solicitude. Susie,
who ought to have been the most smitten by
the ruin of the bank and tortured by the
uncertainty of her position, took everything
quietly, and was, unless by fits and starts when
she elected to bewail herself as a martyr,
remarkably cool and composed. She was even
in better condition than those mourners of
whom it is emphatically reported that they areas
well as can be expected. No doubt she
made large eyes at the accounts which Jack 

never good at slurring over a story of which
he was full, and not seems himself called on to
attempt the feat in relation to his experience of
the morning  poured forth to more sympathetic
listeners. He told them to Mrs. Prior, hanging
intent and full of sorrow on his words ; to
Jane, fighting rebelhously against the decree
that there was no help for the misfortune ; to
Miss Gray, a wistful hearer of the tale. Susie
glanced round with quick inquiry, as a child
itself unaffected by the narrative might have
glanced, took in the expressions of the various
faces, and adapted herself to them. She uttered
a few protestations that it could not be so bad
as Jack represented. Lamb would set all right
when he came back. It was abominably stupid
of Lamb to stay away at such a time, but he
would be there presently, perhaps he was there
already, and, of course, he would reopen the
bank and arrange about paying the people their
money. Surely they could do without it for
one day. She did not mean to say that Jack

was talking fudge, but there was so much
exaggeration in the world  had they not found
it so ? Mam-ma need not be so vexed. There
was no occasion for Jane's mounting her high-horse
and calling for redress to pillaged shopkeepers.
Miss Gray had a fine faculty for
being struck dumb, but it was wasted in the
present instance. She, Susie, wished that Lamb
were only at Eedcot to laugh a little at their
doleful, angry faces.

However much or little of her assurances
Susie believed, it was evident that she attached
no significance to her husband's continued
absence. Yet the other women were beginning
suspiciously to avoid reference to it. They
hurried over any inevitable allusion to the subject,
with a falter of the tongue and a flutter of
the eyelids, to hide the palsy of the lips and
the scared gleam of the eyes behind the veil.

As for that simple, learned lady, Bennet
Gray, she was still racked by a distracting
sense of the loss of Mrs. Prior's esteem, which

lay at the bottom of her affection. The mistress
of the house was even more scrupulously
courteous than before to the stranger within
her gates. But it was a strained and artificial
courtesy, devoid of every particle of the salt of
thorough respect, kindly regard, and affectionate
interest which had permeated it before, and
made it as natural and easy as the process of
breathing. From the moment of the betrayal
which Jack's blunder had brought about the
preceding evening, a door had been closed and
an iron bolt drawn, shutting out all save the most
formal intercourse between the two women,
who, in spite of the difference in their ages, had
so much in common, and had been so strongly
attracted towards each other. ' She won't Itt
her glance rest upon me. She declines to
catch my eye. I aren't do anything for her,'
lamented the hapless offender. ' She sat ever
so long trying to thread her needle this afternoon
 neither of her daughters saw it  nobody
noticed it except me. But she kept her back

to me, and I could not come round and offer
t9 put through the silk, as I might have done
last week, when she would have patted me on
the shoulder and hoped I should never want
young eyes to serve me when my sight failed.
Oh, dear Mrs. Prior, Jack's mother, will you
never forgive me, and will you seek to keep
him from me ? You cannot do that, but you
can make us all miserable.'

As a matter of fact, Jack was kept apart
from Bennet, either by his father or his mother,
in the exigencies of the case, for the rest of the
day. Even if there had been the opportunity,
Bennet felt paralysed by the trouble around
her. She was losing all heart for the telling of
her secret, which she began to be tempted to
regard as such a little wretchedly worldly
secret, though it was to have aroused unalloyed
joy and thankfulness according to its owner's
old foolish notions. Still less could Bennet
commence her explanation by divulging the
full particulars to Jane, and throwing herself

upon her friend's generosity, supposing poor
Jane could have been torn from her grieved
preoccupation with other matters to listen to it.

The fault was not in Jane, she had from
first to last stood by Bennet in the most trying
circumstances. So far from being hostile now,
there was a shy softness, an eager friendliness
in Jane's recent bearing towards Bennet, of
which the latter could have easily availed herself
had she retained the wish. But Bennet
Gray, who had a brave heart and a high spirit
naturally, was for the moment baffled and
broken down:

Mrs. Prior was a little better off than the
sinner against good faith whom the elder
woman felt bound to punish, though the punishment
should recoil on the inspector's head.
The wife and mother was swift to detect the
almost fretful movement of the husband and
father towards his son in the family anxiety.
As death breaks all other engagements, so
sharp calamity sometimes dissolves .

II. u

iii mists and chills of prejudice and alienation,
and restores in some sort kindred obligations.
It was the one subdued glimmer of satisfaction
in Mrs. Prior's sorrow and mortification for all
connected with her, in her almost intolerable
pain with regard to those among them who
had made the community suffer, that father and
son were in the slightest measure in accord
and in association. She did not appear to
mind that John Prior did not extend his confidence
to her, and had even ceased to growl his
complaints into her ears. She was content to
efface herself for Jack ; Jack, who yet had
forgotten her, stolen a march upon her, combined
with another who had no doubt deluded
him as she had deluded his mother, to deceive
and mock her, and render her foolish and contemptible
in her own eyes and those of her
family, her neighbours, her very servants.

CHAPTEE XIV.

RELIEF ; BUT A DEADLIER BLOW THREATENED,

When Mat Crabtree reached the railway station,
the first person he saw on the platform was
Lambert, looming as large as life and larger in
the yachting costume and sailor's hat he still
wore, and looking a few shades nearer a brick
red, not from shame, but from recent exposure
to sun and wind.

Mat stood stock still under the shock, and
blinked his blue eyes more wildly than when
he had first stumbled on his Berkshire Miss
Gray, while Lambert hailed his brother with
one of his hoarse laughs. It was Lambert who
was the challenger, showing himself in the act,
hilariously defiant of eavesdroppers.  What

T7 2


are you seeking here, old boy? You ain't on

a wild-goose chase after me ? Thought I had

bolted, hey ? ' with another haw-haw.

Mat's heart had given a great bound of
relief. Matters were ' beastly but they could
not have been quite so bad as they had looked,
else Lambert would not be there to speak for
himself. He had certainly not entertained any
thought of absconding. He had been cruising
somewhere in the latitude of the Scilly Isles as
had been at first conjectured. He had been
wronged by the suspicions which had been
heaped upon him. These were the first reflections
roused by Lambert's sudden appearance
in a kindred breast as honourable and humane
as Lambert's was growing always baser and
more brutal. But they were quickly followed
by a boiling ferment of wrath at the cavalier
tone assumed by the bankrupt banker.

It was a country station little frequented,
and the two brothers had turned aside from
the few lookers-on near the ticket office, and

walked to the farther end of the platform
where they could be alone.

You have given room for talk,' said Mat,
more coldly and sourly than he had ever before
addressed a fellow-creature whose back was
at the wall. ' Do you know what has happened
in your absence ? '

Lambert nodded. ' That the concern has
gone to pigs and whistles,' he said defiantly.
I confess I was prepared for that denouement
and wished it well over while my back was
turned. But that some idiots should open the
ball by a frustrated robbery, of course I could
not foresee that little accident,' he said hastily,
glancing furtively from beneath his light eyelashes
at his brother.

Who told you of the robbery and its frustration
? ' demanded Mat, sharply.

Who told me of the robbery ? Why, I
read it in the first newspaper I got after I
landed. I say, I ain't going to stand being
cross-questioned here. I have been waiting.

kicking my heels since the train came in, to see
if that ass of a stationmaster could find me a
conveyance to take me over to Haybridge.
I'm too big a boy for walking. Do you know
what the hour is? Between eight and nine,
by Jove ! I have not dined yet, and I hardly
had a snack of luncheon. I daresay you don't
care. It is too much to expect hospitality from
a brother when one has gone to the dogs. But
I think I might have counted on a friendlier
reception after I came back of my own accord
to stand the row, just to save trouble, and not
to leave Susie in the lurch.'

Susie I There are more than Susie in the
lurch who have done less to deserve it  not
that I wish to throw the blame on any woman.
You can come along with me. The trap is not
gone, but I must tell you Jem Coplestone is
at my house.'

The devil he is ! ' ejaculated Lambert,
growling, and stroking his hairy upper lip
viciously.

He arrived to day in time to hear that the
bank had stopped payment. He came on tome.
I could not remain With him, but I persuaded
him to stay over the night, as he was
knocked up by the journey and by the bk)w he
had received. He looks in miserably bad
health.'

Oh ! he was always a duffer,' remarked
Lambert, carelessly.

He has stood at his post like a man in that
trying climate all these years,' said Mat with
strong indignation. ' He has done his best for
his family ' and his profession. He has not
spent other people's money lavishing it on his
own senseless extravagance.'

Nor robbed widows' houses,' chimed in
Lambert, with mock gravity. ' Well, anyhow
you can't say I've made long prayers.'

You had better come on and tell what you
can about these bonds,' said Mat Crabtree
sternly.

Not I,' refused Lambert flatly. ' I am

not going to be sat upon by you and him
together  not if I know it. If I'm due anywhere
it is in Newton to Susie. I'll rather
go straight there and get the worst of it
over.'

'Perhaps you are right,' said Mat, stiffly;
your place is among your partners  such as
are left  old Hutchinson is not expected to
live over the night  the shock has finished him.
And you are due to your customers, to render
an account to them. But Susie is not at the
Bank House.'

Not at" the Bank House ! ' cried Lambert,
arrested in his walk, his red face getting
purple in a second ; his eyes  goggle at the
best  looking as if they were about to start
from their sockets. ' Where the hang is
she?*

She has gone with her children to her
father's. She has been at Eedcot since the
day after the robbery.'

What made her do that ? ' demanded her

husband, angrily. ' It was doggedly foolish.
She must have lost her head. What were you
about that you did not prevent it ? '

I was not at home. I knew nothing of
what had happened. I believe Spies tried to
make her stay where she was, but he did not
succeed. It does not strike me as at all
wonderful that she should have got frightened
and gone to her father's when you did not
come home. You appear to have left the
bank in ticklish circumstances, to say the
least, and to have stayed away with a light
heart.'

I went up to town on urgent business,'
answered Lambert, more sullenly than he had
yet spoken ; ' and a man must have some
relaxation. His nose is not to be kept at the
grindstone the whole year round. I have told
you already, I could not anticipate that the
bank would be broken into in my absence.
It had never happened before, and it ain't
likely that the thieves would take me into

their confidence. I don't see that ni} presence
would have been much good, unless as a
supposed protection against burglars. By-the-bye'
 he broke off abruptly, and turned

upon his brother with a new light in



his insolent eyes  ' Susie was not without
protection. She might have had Parsons, but
I saw by the papers that she had young
Hopeful with her  that Johnnie  Jack Prior
whatever you like to call my fine roving
blade of a brother-in-law  turned up in the
nick of time and slept in the house on the
night of the robbery. I call on you to witness
that was none of my doing. I did not put
the young gentleman  I'm afraid no stretch
of politeness could call him his father's, only
this mammy's darling  into the place of
danger. He chose to stay in my house,
instead of returning home after his long
absence, which one would have thought the
more natural proceeding. It was what pious
folk call an interposition of Providence,' and

Lambert laughed again maliciously, with the
same evil light in his ugly eyes.

I don't see that Jack Prior's being with
his sister had to do with what happened,'
said Mat impatiently. ' He was not aware of
anything unusual, and he had started for
Oxford before the clerks discovered the state
of the safe.'

I'll send over the carriage to fetch Sue
home the first thing tomorrow,' said Lambert,
pursuing his own train of thought. ' The
brats can stay where they are at present, if
they are not too much for the other cribs and
for Tommy. By the way. Mat, what is this
that I hear about you and the children at
Eedcot's keeper ? Ain't you too old for such
folly ? Why, I was not such a raging lunatic
when I was ten years younger. I certainly
aspired to a daughter of the house, not to a
hired-servant.'

You had better mind your own business,'
his brother told him sarcastically. 'From

what I can judge, it will require all your
attention. The carriage ! ' and he put a
marked emphasis on the word. ' Does it not
occur to you how it will feel to the people
whom you have rendered penniless to see
your wife bowl past them in all the ease and
dignity of her carriage, on their dark day,
which ought at least to be as dark to her as
to them ? '

What do you mean ? ' asked Lambert,
staring in amazement. ' You would not have
Susie pad the hoof because the bank has
failed? I should like to hear anybody propose
such a thing to her. I should like to
see her try it. Why, I ain't up to it myself
since I took on so many stones  I say. Mat,
you'll have to give me a lift in your trap as
far as the cross-roads. And I do not know
why you should be in such a funk, old man.
You have taken care that you are well out of
the mess. Ah ! if I had been left the squire
of Haybridge, it might have been different ! '

You mean that Haybridge would have
been mortgaged every acre, or sold outright
half-a-dozen years ago ? No, there was nothing
wrong with your inheritance, Lambert,
it was fair enough in all conscience  only, it
put too many people in your power, the worse
for them.'

And do you think it is particularly
pleasant for me to go back in this fashion to
Newton, where I have held my own for a
good many years now ? ' demanded Lambert,
speaking for the first time savagely, and
turning away his face. ' I'll give you a
hint, my upright and prudent brother  it is
not wise to talk that rot of a fine inheritance,
every rap of which is gone, to a ruined
man.'

Mat felt a little guilty. 'What about the
bank's assets . ' he inquired, recurring to a less
personal topic.

Lambert began forthwith to vapour, but,
so far as Mat Crabtree could gather, the

assets, like everything else, were of the plunging
order, wind bags and false lights, with
just a little solid foundation to keep them inexistence.
If it had not been for similar experiences
which he had both seen and read of.
Mat could hardly have believed the amount
of capital and credit which his brother had
contrived to squander within a limited time,
and the number of dupes he had found in
every class, whose credulity or avarice had
made them his victims.

The interview between the couple ended
characteristically, in Mat's declining to lend
Lambert his company, but giving him the use
of his trap to Newton, while the owner of the
trap plodded his way, a heart-sore, harassed
man, in the summer darkness back to Hay-bridge.


Before Mat Crabtree slept he despatched a
messenger to Eedcot with a note to Mr. Prior
' Lambert has turned up to give an account
of himself. I'm afraid it will not be to much

purpose, but let us hope the best. Be so good
as to tell Susie.'

Of course Susie was glad that Lamb had
come at last, but she showed no overpowering
joy. Her thankfulness was shown in a determination
coinciding with his opinion on the
subject, as announced to his brother, that she
would go home tomorrow the first thing.

But there were others at Eedcot less nearly
related to Lambert Crabtree, and by no means
remarkable for personal attachment to him,
who drew a deep breath of relief and lay down
to rest with their minds lightened of a heavy
load, because he was there alive and well.

The next day dawned without any trace
of portent save that the sky, after a renewed
storm in the night, seemed uncertain whether
to cloud over again or to clear afresh, and the
garden roses still hung their heads surcharged
with wet. After breakfast Jane Prior was with
Miss Gray and the children in the schoolroom,
when, in answer to a knock and a permission

to enter, all present were startled by the sudden
appearance of Mat Crabtree in unusual guise.
His coat was stained with earth, and one sleeve
was torn, so was the shirt sleeve within, showing
that the arm was grazed and bleeding, while his
face was white as of a man sick at heart. He
anticipated the general exclamation of fright
and distress by an imperative ' Hush. Don't
be alarmed  don't rouse the house. I have
had a fall from my horse. I was riding fast
and she cast a shoe and stumbled when I was
not attending to her, but there is no harm done.
I came in here  I know the room  to see if
anybody could put me right before I asked to see
Mr. Prior. No, no, don't speak about getting
brandy, thanks ; I am not faint, just brush my
coat, if one of you will be so good, and fasten
up my sleeve. I nest see Mr. Prior immediately,
but I don't wish to frighten people more
than I can help.'

He had frightened some people very effectually.
His abrupt, unnatural manner, even

more than his disordered dress and blanched
face, had filled all present with dismay. The
children, of whom he took no notice, fell back
in a trembling group. Alice, indeed, prepared
to flee for assistance and to call out what had
happened, but was arrested by a grip like
a vice and a ' stay where you are,' which
reduced her to the abject condition of her
companions.

Jane Prior could not put into practice what
she knew of stoic philosophy. She grew as
pale as the visitor, and since it was not
allowable to scream, she could not trust
herself to speak.

Bennet Gray found a brush, and sought
quickly to remove the marks from the coat,
while she succeeded in bringing together the
rent cloth so as to hide the hurt to the arm.
All the time he was telling her to be quick,
for he had not a moment to lose.

Before Bennet had finished there was a
ring at the hall bell, early as it was for visitors.

VOL. II. X

Good Lord ! ' Mat Crabtree cried aloud, ' it
is too late to prepare them,' broke away from
her, and hurried off to the morning-room
where the family breakfasted. He left behind
him a deep impression. Those who had been
his audience felt certain that something quite
out of the ordinary course of events had
happened, something terrible, overwhelming.
It was like their all being about to be swallowed
up by an earthquake, little Sam, with
a vague, frightened recollection of the thunderstorm
of the previous day, suggested in an
awed whisper to his sister. Unquestionably
something had come to pass which tended to
break down in a second all artificial barriers
and distinctions between one human being and
another, so that by common consent, without
pausing to think, the women and children
streamed after Mat Crabtree to seek Mr. and
Mrs. Prior, Jack and Susie.

Breakfast was over, but Mr. Prior had still
sat reading his newspaper at the head of the

breakfast table, Jack and his mother remained
standing at an open window, by which Susie
had thrown herself in a lounging chair, where
they had been watching the operations of the
gardener on a bed of balsams beaten down by
the recent rain.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

PRINTED BY

BPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

3 01

11

2 047688004

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/burieddiamonds03tytl

rL::.'o;.?sped below YOU .oy

be charged a minimum fee o 575.W
each non-returned or "s* em  

.. for slud.nl ""'""'* "" ,fc. p,op.,ly of 11" S'""
,, . " ;- , Cal 17) 333 400.

'( *>i

When renewing by phone, write new due date
below previous due date.

VOL. III.

\

3\N-> : 

/

Three-volume NOVELS AT ALL LIBRARIES.

OTHMAR. By Ouida.

FIRST PERSON SINGULAR. By D. Christie
Murray.

CAMIOLA. By Justin McCarthy.

THE UNFORESEEN. By Alice O'Hanlon.

London : CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

f /

BURIED DIAMONDS

BY

SARAH Tatler

AUTHOR OF 'saint MUNGO's CITY ' ' CITOYENNE JACQUELINE ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



The rihl 0/ translation is reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

CONTENTS

THE THIRD VOLUME.

Chapter PAGE

I. The Blow falls 1

II. The Pillars of the Falling House  An

Interview 16

iii. a compromise 34

IV. An Embassy 48

V. An Appeal to Susie 73

VI. A Remonstrance with Jack . . . . 95

VII. The first Day of the Trial . . .114

VIII. The Entrance of the Prisoners  the Evidence
LED . 136

IX. Bennet's Declaration 167

X. The second Day of the Trial . .  . 193

XL Jack Prior does something to redeem his

Reputation 221

XII. Molly and Piers Crabtree's Guardians, by

Nature and by Assumption . . . . 243

XIII. What came of the Bore at the Rats'

Ditch 261

CHAPTEE I.

THE BLOW FALLS.'

Don't be alarmed enjoined Mat Crabtree
for the second time, an impossible piece of
advice, considering the hour of his call, his
aspect, his head turned to listen for the
approaching footsteps of still more untimely
visitors on the heels of the first. ' I was
coming to tell you that there has been an
unaccountable egregious mistake somewhere.
It will all be rectified presently.' His voice
stopped suddenly upon the entrance of the
pretty prim housemaid. She was a more
formal creature even than a footman, and

VOL. III. B

would have died before she had lost her
mannerly composure  a great part of her stock-in-trade.
Yet she betrayed plainly enough,
behind her shocked decorum, that she was,
as she would have said, ' struck all of a
heap.'

She announced, 'Two gentlemen wishing
to speak to Mr. Prior and Mr. John. Shall
I show them in here or up to the drawing-room
? ' Her mincing, slightly quavering voice
was drowned by a piercing shriek from Susie,
who was sitting bolt upright panting for breath.
'Don't let them come near me,' she cried
wildly. ' It is not true. What has Lamb
said ? '

Jack said not a Avoid. His jaw fell a little;
a lack-lustre look came into his eyes as he
leaned against the window-frame so heavily
that his mother in her bewilderment and
consternation put her hand upon his arm to
draw him back. 'Take care, you will be
through the glass,' she warned him.

Holm Prior looked up like a man dazed.

'Eh! What is it, Crabtree? What ails
Susie ? Who else does the girl say has come
before breakfast is well over ? '

The visitors answered in person. They
had taken the liberty, conceiving it part of
their duty, to follow on the servant's steps,
while Susie's shriek had further accelerated
their progress. Two respectable enough looking
men of their class, in plain clothes, but
with an official air, men perfectly well known
in Newton, stepped forward. ' We are very
sorry, Mr. Prior, but we have no choice,' said
the spokesman, like a man accustomed to bear
down opposition  not harshly, but as a matter
of simple necessity. ' We have business here
this morning. These are the warrants.' He
took out two papers and offered them for
inspection. 'We have come over to arrest,
at the instance of the crown, Susan Prior or
Crabtree, wife of Lambert Crabtree, of Crab-tree's
Bank  this here young lady,' and he

R 2

looked up to put in the parenthesis, ' and John
Prior, younger, of Eedcot, that young gentleman
there,' he added another explanatory note
to all concerned, ' on the charge of having
wickedly and feloniously, on the night of the
nineteenth or the morning of the twentieth
of June, broken open the safe of Crabtree's
Bank, Newton, and stolen from it the sum of
seven thousand pounds in Bank of England
notes, together with a parcel of South American
bonds of the value of six thousand pounds.'
He ended by the usual caution to his prisoners
against making any statement, whether of
innocence or guilt, which might be used
against them on their trial.

There was a second's dead silence, in which
one might have heard a pin fall. Susie all
convulsed a moment before, sat motionless,
as if she were stiffening into stone. Jack did
not stir. The next instant the spell was broken
by a jarring discord. Tommy rushed barking
upon the scene. Instead of the unearthly

stillness there arose a maddening, senseless
clamour, for Tommy's example was followed
in the form of crying by the two younger
children. They wanted no further provocation
to express their ignorant alarm in a style in
keeping with their tender years. If the
officers of justice plainly heard the intolerable
din, and were seriously disturbed by it in
the discharge of their duty, . not another
grown-up person was distinctly conscious of
the hideous noise, though Mrs. Prior made a
mechanical motion with her hand, which
signified ' Down, Tommy ; be quiet, good
old dog.' Just as instinctively and unconsciously
Bennet Gray caught up Sam Wood's
and Piers Crabtree's crumpled-together fingers
in her own, clasping them in sign of restraint
and encouragement.

It is an outrageous blunder, as I said,'
gasped Mat Crabtree, his voice half choked ;
'the best plan to clear up the error without
delay will be for you, Susie, and you. Jack,

to go at once along with the officers and me
to Newton.'

Of course we'll go,' declared Susie, in a
melodious but highly - pitched voice which
startled everybody afresh. She was sitting up,
smoothing her hair with both hands, in her
flushed beauty and natural grace, perfectly
recovered from her recent distress, apparently
mistress of the situation. 'I was taken by
surprise, and nearly frightened out of my wits,'
she apologised suavely. ' You know I don't
believe my nerves ever will recover from the
effects of that atrocious robbery. But when
one comes to think of it, was there ever
anything so ridiculous heard as proposing to
arrest me and Jack for the theft ? Why don't
you laugh. Jack ? Of course we'll go, and
have the joke out with the magistrate. But
won't pa-pa here do ? He is a Justice of the
Peace. No! Well, it will be greater fun to
go to Newton ; I was just about to start 
you all remembers And then Lamb will

share the fan. But first, my good men, have
you had any refreshment after your journey?'
and Susie turned to the officers of justice who
had arrested her, with a movement of the most
gracious consideration. ' Mam-ma, will you
bid cook see to it, while I am getting ready
and the phaeton is brought out ? '

Susie took away what breath was left in the
assembled party. The very policemen gaped
like the children, glanced inquiringly at each
other, and at the rest of the audience, and
forgot their good-breeding more than Camilla
the housemaid had forgotten hers by grinning
in a sickly, imbecile fashion.

John Prior had crushed the newspaper he
had been holding, let it drop, and risen to his
feet, and was staring about him with a working
face. ' The lawyers must be stark-staring mad,'
he muttered. 'Accuse Susie of robbing the
bank, a woman, a gentlewoman, the banker
her husband, and her brother mentioned asher
accomplice  it is more than preposterous.'

Then he suddenly faced round with bent
brows on his son. .

What have you to say to it, Jack ? You
can surely say something,' with rising irritation.


I can't,' answered Jack, with so great an
effort that it sounded like a groan, bending
brows which were marvellously like those of
his questioner.

An indignant voice spoke up for him.
The accusation is so unutterably absurd, it
is not worth replying to.'

It was not Mrs. Prior or Jane who said
these words. Mrs. Prior, indeed, had not
given way ; she was very pale, but she stood
erect, with eyes which saw all that passed
and ears that heard every word ; and she
stepped forward between her husband and
son as if to put a hand on each. But Jane
clung to her mother as she had not clung
since she was a little child. It was Bennet
Gray who spoke with impatient scorn, which

changed to abashed mortification before the
words were well out of her mouth. She had
no acknowledged right to speak there. How
could she stand up and defend him before his
father and mother, friends and strangers,
when their relations  hers and Jack's  had
neither been openly proclaimed by him nor
rightly recognised by others ? Even at this
moment  after one glance that seemed to
appeal to her passionately  he turned away
from her.

There was no farther outcry, Susie's bearing
and Jack's silence forbade it. It would have
been equivalent to admitting a belief in the
sister and brother's guilt. It would have
been unworthy of the family themselves, as
well as an insult to Susie and Jack, to resent
and resist the action of the law, however
eccentric, and to reproach or execrate the
men who were there to do their duty. Susie
was certainly hurrying her departure. In
place of getting up any obstacle or betraying

the least reluctance, lie was continuing
to remind everyone that she had been on
the point of starting for the Bank House.
She was calling for aid to collect her various
properties and to see her ofi*. She was slightly
staggered on being told that she was to go with
her brother and the policemen in a cab, which
they had brought from Newton, instead of
being driven over in the phaeton by Jack,
as she had proposed, while her luggage should
follow her. As for her brother-in-law, it was
only by the courtesy of the officers that he was
to be permitted to accompany them.

But Mrs. Lambert Crabtree insisted, against
every prohibition and remonstrance, that she
would take her children with her. According
to Susie, she could not now be parted from
daring little Mollie and Piers even for a few
hours, though she had often before left them
for twice as many weeks. What were the
speakers thinking of. They did not know
a mother's feelings. The idea was not to

be entertained for a second that she was
to leave her blessed babies behind her,
even in the care of their grand mamma, and
Aunt Jane, and Miss Gray  who was so
obliging in hearing the children say their
lessons along with Molly and Piers's cousins.
It was not altogether nice to take the little
ones home in a common cab. She was afraid
their papa would not like it; but she was
not aware that there had been any fever
patients driven to the infirmary lately, and
she would run the risk rather than be
separated an hour longer than she could
help from her pets. Susie had her way at
this moment, as usual. The children were
suffered to accompany her, room being made
for them with some difficulty by the bigger
of the policemen going on the box with the
driver.

The preparing and starting Mollie and Piers
increased the confusion, as well as threw a
slightly different air over the party  so that,

if Susie had these ends also in view, she
attained them likewise.

Jane and Miss Gray, instead of the servants,
waited upon Susie and the children. Jane's
hands shook, while Susie's were steady, and
Bennet was dumb before the excited chatter
which the little Crabtrees struck up in the
prospect of the journey.

Mr. Prior had gone aside with Mat Crab-tree,
Mrs. Prior had one moment which she
could call her own with her son. 'What is
it, my boy ? ' she asked him piteously. ' Of
course, it is all a stupid blunder ; but why do
you take it in this way ? Why are you notable
to make a jest of it, as Susie does? What
is it, Jack ? '

I can't tell you, mother,' answered Jack,
with a restless gesture, and at the same time
with an expression as if he was weary of
the whole matter with utter weariness. ' Ask
Susie, if you like ; I have nothing to tell.'

John Prior scarcely appeared to follow the

arguments of his friend urging him to stay-where
he was at Eedcot, pledging himself 
Mat Crabtree  to see Susie and Jack through
this amazing farce of a trouble, undertaking to
find bail (which might be asked as a form),
swearing that, if offered, bail would be accepted.
Mat tried farther to explain how so unnatural
a charge had been brought. The stolen banknotes
had been found secreted in the Bank
House. The dishonest servant who had most
probably done the deed had not yet been
detected. It was incumbent on the police
and detectives to do something. By venturing
on a ruse like this  however transparent the
ruse  they might succeed in throwing the real
culprits off their guard, and so let the law get
on their track.

Jack mechanically kissed his mother and
sister and wrung Bennet's hand, but without
looking in her face. He was going away
silent and gloomy, as if he was the actual
depredator.

Susie, on the contrary, was as lavish in
reassuring smiles as in tender caresses. ' Oh,
how we'll laugh at it all some day,' she cried.
'What a story it will be to tell, that I was
taken up  actually taken up  for robbing my
husband's bank ! Poor little me a burglar !
It is a subject for Punchy and she held up her
small hands. ' How on earth did I do it ? On
the night of the volunteer ball, too, of all
nights, when I was so tired and sleepy. Molly
and Piers, your mam-ma is a heroine labouring
under a grotesquely grim accusation, or else she
is a virago or a ghoul, for anything you know
or she herself can tell' When her foot was on
the step of the cab she turned lightly and ran
back into the hall, to give a last direction
about her trunks. Her father was standing
half-way down the stair ; she went up to him
swiftly, passed an arm round his neck and
kissed him again. ' Cheer up, papa daring.
It is a horrid bore, but it is all a wild nightmare,
an insane delusion.'

Was it so ? ' John Prior asked himself, as
the cab rolled off, and the servants who had
been hiding away for very shame on the
family's account came stealing into sight.
Had Susie kissed him just under that grisly
daub of Judas Iscariot betraying his Master,
which the squire of Eedcot had well nigh
forgotten these many years ? Whom did that
strange, haggard face  wan  but with a hectic
glow like a splash of blood on the pallid cheeks,
resemble ? Was it Susie or was it Jack ?

CHAPTEE n.

THE PILLARS OF THE FALLING HOUSE 
AN INTERVIEW.

Happily not one among many thousands of the
myriads of families in which men and women
are set in this world, are fated to experience
such a shock  such a moral earthquake as was
undergone at Eedcot on the morning on which
Susie Crabtree and Jack Prior were arrested
there. How do the tragically exceptional
innocent people to whom such shocks come
behave on these unique occasions ? Is it a fact
that there is a limit to our capacity for pain 
that when a mother and her child, or brothers
and sisters, grown up men and women, perish
together in a fire or by the upsetting of a boat,

the surviving members of the families  the
husband and father who is at once a widower
and childless, the parents bereft of sons and
daughters by a single blow  are stunned as well
as stricken, and rendered for a time at least mercifully
incapable of realising the extent of their
misfortune ? Do they mourn, but with not
more bitter and excessive grief than a sensitive
man or woman might have felt for the loss of
one human creature who was dear ?

This may be true in a family shipwreck
such as had befallen the Priors, the nature of
which, to people of honourable antecedents,
who have led honest and well-regulated lives, is
as incredible as it is rare. Susie and Jack were
gone under trying circumstances, but these
were so astounding that it was impossible fully
to realise them till an interval had passed.

There was much more loud lamentation in
the kitchen than in the drawing-room  and in
the former region a sense of mournful enjoyment
soon entered into the proceedings, as into

VOL. III. c

a funeral feast, when the funeral is not one in
which the guest is nearly concerned. The
sombre satisfaction in this instance had the
agreeable addition of a strong spice of excitement.
Miss Susie that was, arid Mr. Jack
charged with robbing a bank between them,
perhaps lodged in Newton Jail by that time,
was dreadful, but it was also thrilling.

Upstairs, the family, and the woman who
had tacitly become a member of it for the
moment, looked at each other in blank wonder
and consternation. What did it mean ? What
grain of truth, of probability at least, had led to
such an undreamt-of catastrophe ?

John Prior pulled himself together and
walked heavily to his study, to lock himself in
and take counsel with himself, to bury his head
in his hands, and ask himself  was this the
retribution which Lambert Crabtree had threatened
How had it been brought about?
Could he  John Prior  have prevented it atone
time by a word of his mouth, which, if

spoken now, if shouted in the market-place,
would be wholly in vain. Jack and Susie
branded for life, proclaimed common thieves !
Perhaps they had been drawn into some weak
compromise, which constituted them partners
in the guilt of a far greater sinner. He their
father, could not, for the life of him, in spite of
his long apprenticeship to spleen and gloom,
conceive that the girl and boy  they were still
girl and boy to him  had committed a barefaced,
vulgar crime, as gross an intellectual
blunder as it was a heinous moral offence.
Why, it was so egregious an error, by the simplest
reasoning, as to argue a lack of reason
amounting to fatuous imbecility or hair-brained
insanity in the man or woman of the rank of
the Priors who fell into the delusion. What
were the inducements which could lead to such
a mania ? Susie's husband's difficulties. Jack's
scrapes and debts  supposing he had contracted
more. These might be alleged in a court of
law, but they were totally inadequate.

In the drawing-room Bennet Gray roused
herself in time to stop Ally from asking with
round-eyed speculation and great glibness in
leaping at a conclusion, whether Aunt Susie and
Uncle Jack had been traitors or highwaymen,
as Aunt Susie had seemed to say, and whether
the gentlemen who had come for them were
going to take them to the Tower ? But surely
nobody would think of cutting off Aunt Susie's
head with its fringe. Uncle Jack would not let
them, he would fight for both. Miss Gray took
the children to their nurse, to learn more
prosaic annals of arrests from her gossip with
her fellow-servants than were to be drawn from
a child's history of England.

When Bennet went back to the women's
sanctuary, she found Mrs. Prior sitting patiently
in her usual place, surrounded by her books
and the materials for her work, though she was
doing nothing unless seeking to recover herself.

Jane was more restless. She was moving
here and there, coming always back to her

mother's side and appealing to her. ' Mother,
what can be the cause of this affronting outrage
? Mother, what is to be done ? '

My dear, your father will see to it. Mr.
Crabtree has gone in with the others, he will do
all that is necessary. No doubt everything will
be cleared up presently.'

It was the strangest, most pathetic thing to
hear Jane  so self-reliant in her. own line  so
tempted to undervalue what was apart from it
and so accustomed to regard her mother as
good and dear, but as long left behind in the
march of mind, thus turning and looking up to
the elder woman's broader human experience
and deeper knowledge of life in the hour of
trial. It was equally strange and pathetic, in
the order of nature, which is older and wiser in
its instincts than any acquired knowledge, to see
how Mrs. Prior bore herself. She had been
content to bide her time, would have been
more than content to bide it for ever, rather
than have shared in such an awakening. But

now she instantly resumed her place as one of
the heads of the house, one of the bearers of its
burdens, and showed herself ready, strong in
her wifely and motherly instincts, for whatever
demand might be made on her.

There was another woman who rose to meet
trouble when it came to those dear to her with
the marvellous courage and self-forgetfulness
which, are instincts with the higher natures
among the sex. These qualities contest so
successfully with feminine weakness as to
render women stronger than men on certain
occasions, not only ' ministering angels ' but
rulers born for adversity.

Bennet left the mother and daughter together,
and went boldly to Mr. Prior's study
door, where she knocked for admittance.

There was a muttered protest within, a slow,
reluctant tread to the door, which was unlocked,
and the applicant had to stand for a moment
the stare of utter astonishment and displeasure
cast on the intruder. In the days of her full

favour with Mrs. Prior and Jane, Bennet had
never made much more way with the master
of the house than was implied in being tolerated
by him, and regarded, almost against his will,
with a man's  a clever man's  instinctive admiration
for a beautiful and quick-witted
woman.

May I speak with you, Mr. Prior ? * petitioned
Bennet quickly, as an excuse for her
being there.

Well, Miss Gray, I should have thought
that it would be tolerably plain to you I am
engaged this morning,' he protested, with almost
vehement sarcasm. ' This is not a time
for unnecessary discussion.' Then he thought
better of it, and held the door for her to pass
in. ' Perhaps you are right,' he corrected himself
formally, with a latent bitterness in the
concession. ' It is better to act without delay
when it can be done. It is out of the question
for you to remain here, under the circumstances,
a moment longer than you can help. I acknowledge

that, after what has happened, it might
be as much as your reputation is worth, and
might be fatal to your prospects as a teacher.
I am perfectly sensible of all that can be said
on the subject, so that no apology is needed.
No doubt my grandchildren will miss your
valuable instruction, but the loss cannot be
helped, unfortunately. Any inconvenience
caused by your going so suddenly will be temporary,
and is not worth mentioning when
graver matters have to be considered,' he said,
with a sardonic smile that was well-nigh ghastly
on his face at that moment. 'Allow me to
\Tite you a cheque for the quarter's salary.
Ah ! I forgot, my cheque-book is on Crabtree's
Bank ; but there is money in the house  Jack
brought a supply.' He stopped abruptly;
Jack's name had been too much for him.

Oh ! no, no, Mr. Prior ; that is not what 1
meant,' cried out Bennet, who had been too
much abashed and distressed to interrupt him
before. The ordeal would have been severe

under much more favourable conditions, and it
required all her firmness and devotion to another
to face it. ' I want no money. I am not going
away  unless, indeed, you send me. I am not
here as a schoolmistress. I knew your son
before I came. Oh ! don't you understand ?
You have been young yourself.'

I can guess that there has been some
wretched love affair,' admitted Mr. Prior sternly,
and that you have probably considered yourself
engaged in marriage to my son.'

Bennet bowed her head, which was hanging
low enough already.

So you came beforehand to spy the land.
I shall not make any further comment than
that it was ingenious of you,' he said, with a
sneer.

It was very wrong  I see that now,' she
said, with straightforward simplicity and with
more composure, as she made the confession,
but you will not choose this moment to punish
rae. Your son is innocent of my coming here ;

he knew nothing of it. You will forgive me,
and let me share this extraordinary calamity
and insult with the rest of the family.'

Miss Gray, you are foolish and romantic, as
well as scheming  excuse me, but I cannot
avoid saying it. However, I am not your judge
or my son's. I can only make some things
clear to you which I must conclude you do not
rightly comprehend. I am not the prosperous
man you may have imagined me to be when
you received Jack's unwarrantable addresses.
I am poor ; I was on the verge of ruin before
the event of the morning. Good God, do you
know what it all means ? ' He started up and
began to pace the room, unable to restrain himself.
' The miserable lad with whom you have
entangled yourself and his sister are lying under
a criminal charge. Their family must bear the
consequences of their misfortune or their misdoing
; in this there is no choice. But the best
thing that you can do for yourself  and you
have ample reason for doing it  is to break off

an engagement which ought never to have been
formed, and cut the whole connection.'

Never ! ' exclaimed Bennet, indignantly-raising
her comely head high enough now.
What, give up Jack ! Jack, who sought me
for myself alone, because he is unjustly charged
with a crime of which, you must be well aware,
he is no more capable than you or I, or an
innocent baby ! Desert my friends  though
you refuse to own me as a friend  when they
are in trouble ! What do you take me for, Mr.
Prior ? Oh ! it is not I, it is you who do not
understand. And I have more to tell you, sir.
You seem to think I coveted your supposed
wealth and position, when I listened to your
son. The truth is I would not listen to him till
he consented to go to one of the colonies and
seek to make a home for us both there, where
I might have worked with and for him, without
degrading him and me in his people's eyes. I
declined to become either a suppliant for their
bounty or a dependant upon it. Then, during

his absence, I succeeded to my cousin's fortune ;
for I am not poor, like most schoolmistress, I
am rich ; I am fit to marry a squire's son, if
money was the only consideration.'

What ! more deception and manoeuvring,
Miss Gray,' was Mr. Prior's sole cutting rejoinder.


Yes, manoeuvring, if you will have it,' she
said desperately. ' I wished to learn for myself
the real character of Jack's friends and of his
relations with them. I was vain enough to
imagine that I might help to make peace. It
was silly and arrogant, and I see that I have
offended you and Mrs. Prior beyond hope of
forgiveness. Still I meant no harm. But never
mind me. There are so many much more important
things to be thought of now, and I am
sure no time should be lost. Mr. Prior, for
your son's sake, forgive me, and let me help
you,' implored Bennet, looking up into John
Prior's face with wistful, beseeching eyes.

'And do you think I could accept help,

whatever you mean by the term, from a girl
like you ? ' he fretted and fumed in his pride
and sorrow. 'I am more bound than ever
to protect you as far as I can from the evil
consequences of your association with any
member of my family. I should hope I have
some conscience left me. Apart from that,
I should have to answer to your relations and
guardians for availing myself of your mad
generosity.'

I have no relations and few friends,' she
told him simply, ' none to whom I am accountable,
or who will not be satisfied with any
explanation I may give them. I was a very
lonely woman when your son met and sought
and won me, till death and beyond death,
whatever you may say or do. My fortune
was left to me unconditionally. I am of age ;
I can do with it what I will. I would give
it to Jack this moment if he were here, and
would take it. I desire nothing better than
to spend any portion of it, or all of it on his

behalf. When I think of it you cannot prevent
me, but it would be wiser and more
becoming if we were to act in concert, and
do what is necessary for him together. Indeed,
I do not wish to make myself conspicuous,
to come forward in a way that
would vex and mortify anybody. I would
much rather that I was not heard of at all in
the matter. I only ask a small thing as a
great favour  that you will make use of my
money for Jack's benefit.'

The proposal is perfectly preposterous ; it
cannot be entertained for a second,' persisted
John Prior, doggedly. ' I am not come to
sutjh a pass as that implies. I still have means
to defend my son. I can meet the legal
expenses to which I suppose you refer. And
even if my resources failed there are others to
whom I could apply without having recourse
to a stranger, a girl who comes badly enough
off in the business as it is.'

Oh, surely not a stranger.' She objected
to the harshly-sounding word, and protested
against it hotly. ' And. not a girl who is not
accountable for what she does with her eyes
open, and with the full consent of her judgment
no less than her heart. The father of
a daughter like Jane Prior ought not to deny
women brains and moral responsibility. Dear
Mr. Prior, listen to reason. I have thought
it all out within the last hour. I could not
help it  so please don't blame me for presuming
to interfere in your affairs.'

He shook his head impatiently, and turned
from her, but she followed him.

I know Jack got money from the bank,'
ibr you before it failed, but a considerable sum
was to be sent to the manager at Kershaw to
provide for .the men's wages. You made the
arrangement in my hearing last night. Mr.
Crabtree of Haybridge is as much interested
in the case as you are, and I know you can

depend upon him as an old friend ; but it
is his brother's bank which has stopped
payment, and no doubt he banked there
also. Besides, there is Mrs. Lambert Crab-tree
to be thought of in addition to her
brother.'

Still he stood immovable. She put her hand
upon his arm in her urgent pleading.

Do let me be your banker for the time,
just till you can look about and form your
plans, if you prefer it so. Let me consult
some of the great lawyers who were my cousin
Josh's fellows and friends. They offered to
help me on his death. If I ask them, their
knowledge and experience will be at your
service  at Jack's service  do you hear, sirs
You cannot deprive your son of any advantage
at this pass though the accusation seems so
preposterous that it ought to be dismissed
without a question. You will not break my
heart by continuing to decline to let me do
what I can to help him. I will do it 

whether you refuse or accept my assistance ;
but I put it to you whether there should be
discord between us at such a time, between
Jack's father and the woman who, if he and
she hive, will be Jack's wife.'

VOL. III.

CHAPTER III.

A COMPROMISE.

He yielded at last, but rather worn out by her
importunity than sensibly touched by what he
had called her mad generosity. He was too
sore in spirit all over, too torn in different
directions, to be capable of being gracious.
Yet he was not without an underlying feeling of
dull surprise and secret satisfaction  altogether
passive to begin with, in the discovery that
Jack, his son, with all his defects and faults,
had made a woman like the one before John
Prior  a woman rich in attractions and gifts 
love the young man desperately, infatuatedly,
so that she was ready to give up everything
for his sake.

And it was with old-world politeness and
fairness, however coldly and with a suspicion
of irony still not stamped out of him, that
John Prior chose to accompany his future
daughter-in-law back to the family circle, and
to take that, the first, opportunity of introducing
her to its members in a new character.
I wish to let you know,' he said, speaking to
Mrs. Prior and Jane, ' that Miss Gray has done
me the honour to acquaint me with an earlier
engagement between her and Jack, and with
her determination to stand by it and him. Injustice
to myself, I cannot say that I approve
of her resolution, though, in consideration for
him, I am driven to acquiesce in it. I have
also to tell you that it is not Miss Gray, the
children's teacher, but an unsuspected heiress
whom we have been entertaining unawares,
who has been masquerading among us, that I
present to you. So much the worse for her.
It may be the better for Jack, in a pecuniary
sense, if he ever get out of the mess he has

D 2

contrived to fall into, but I cannot suppose
that it will raise the world's estimate of his
honour and disinterestedness, whatever he or
she may have to say to it.'

The women who served as an audience to
the extraordinary speech had been so thunderstruck
and overwhelmed this morning already
that they could not rise on the instant to fresh
experiences of marvelling and strong feeling,
whether of approval or disapproval. Their
very intellects were stupefied, and the pair
listened languidly, with a mystified, scared
look, as if, on the one hand, they could not
take in the tale, and, on the other, they feared
for John Prior's wits. At last a gleam of joy,
like a passing sunbeam piercing dark clouds,
shot across Jane Prior's open face. She rose
and went up to Bennet and clasped and kissed
her in acceptance of her as a sister. ' You are
really to be one of us,' she said, with little
gasps after coherence ; ' you are not shrinking
from us after what has happened to-day. You

are cleaving to poor Jack, though I knew you
were too good for him already, before we were
aware you were rich, except in what is far
better than money. I am glad, for all our
sakes.'

But Mrs. Prior did no more than agree
with a chilling submission to her husband's and
her son's will. ' If you have given your consent,
John,' she said, with a glance at her
husband, but without a look for poor trembling,
shrinking Bennet, who appeared, in truth, as if
she were the humble petitioner for mercy, and
not the flattered, looked-up to dispenser of
bounties, ' of course, mine goes with it. That
needs no commentary, and is of little consequence.'


Later, when Mrs. Prior seemed to awake
to Bennet Gray's unaccounted-for possession of
worldly goods, the sole effect on an exceedingly
unworldly woman was somehow to induce her
to make a speech which struck the girl's
wounded ears like cruel mockery. She (Mrs.

Prior) was afraid she had unwittingly failed in
the consideration to which Miss Gray was
probably accustomed  that she might think
the family at Eedcot ought to have shown her.
She might have missed something in her accommodation
which she had a right to regard
as her due.

This to Bennet, who was if possible hardier
and simpler than Jane in her habits, who
would have been willing at no distant date to
have kissed the ground that the elder woman
trod, who would have accepted gratefully the
poorest quarters that Mrs. Prior had awarded
to her !

It was evident that Mrs. Prior resented the
entrance of the new member into the family at
this low ebb of their fortunes quite as much,
possibly more, than if the Priors had been in
the lie-day of their prosperity. No constancy
or loyalty on Bennet's part, no benefits she
could confer, reconciled the mistress of the
house to the promotion to a daughter's place

there of a woman who had dwelt beneath its
roof for many months under false colours. It
was by no means the fact of Bennet's having
been what Lambert Crabtree had defined asa
hired servant ' that stuck so fast in Mrs.
Prior's throat ; she could have swallowed that
objection faster than most squires' wives would
have swallowed it. It was, as Mrs. Prior
believed honestly, the deceit with which she
had been treated, the treachery which had
been going on so long under her unsuspecting
eyes, that she could not pardon. So the wife
and mother revolted at the distinction which
was thenceforth to be Bennet's portion, that
could not be entirely disguised. The very
servants remarked on it, though they knew no
more than that Miss Gray was the trusted and
confidential governess and friend of the family
which she had been for some time. But it
puzzled them a little to find her come so much
to the front in this disastrous crisis. It appeared
as if nothing could be done without

her. She strove to keep herself in the background
; nobody could accuse her of self-assertion
or arrogance. Nevertheless, it was
not to be concealed that she took an active
part in the measures which Mr. Prior was
rousing himself to adopt in the circumstances.
More than once Miss Gray was summoned to
Mr. Prior's study to join with him and Miss
Jane in a consultation from which Mrs. Prior
for some reason held herself aloof. But the
mistress of the house had so slipped into the
position of a spectator rather than an actor in
the affairs of the family, not to say a controller
of them, that her passiveness on this occasion
was by comparison scarcely noticed. If one
person perceived Mrs. Prior's withdrawal with
remorse and shame, she dared not call attention
to the anomaly, or try to obviate it, any more
than she could take it upon her to show her
former friend the letters which Miss Gray was
writing on John Prior's behalf, and carrying to
him for inspection. But it was hard for Mrs.

Prior to brook Miss Gray's coming forward as
Jack's chief help and stay in the day of his
adversity, to feel that his mother was superseded
even here in her most sacred privilege.

Mat Crabtree was again able to send much
needed consolation to Eedcot. In the course
of the afternoon he could write, if not that
the case had been instantly dismissed, at least
that bail had been accepted both for Susie and
Jack. The sister and brother were at liberty,
and had gone to the Bank House, where it was
considered advisable that Jack should remain
with the Crabtrees for the present. It would
be more convenient if they had to go through
the form of getting up a defence.

There was a good deal of reading between
the lines of the note which Mat Crabtree had
carefully refrained from putting down in black
and white. He omitted any admission of the
seriousness of the case. He suppressed the
difficulties that had to be surmounted before
bail was received. He did not record the

points that were stretched in deference to
the social position of the accused  above all
to Susie's delicate beauty and feminine charm.
She had hurried in from Eedcot with the
children she could not bear to leave behind
her ; she was relying on her husband, who
had returned just jn time, and was lending her
his support in her painful position. How was
it possible for any magistrate with a heart in
his bosom, to look unmoved at that confiding,
changing creature in her refined grace and
innocent unconsciousness of the danger and
disgrace of the situation ? Whatever the burden
of proof against her, he could not tear her
from her home and family and send her to a
common prison. It would be as much as her
life was worth. It would be executing her
sentence upon her before she was judged, and
that long after capital punishment had been
abolished for robbery without manslaughter.

Neither did Mat Crabtree see it necessary
to state that, apart from any convenience in

Jack Prior's staying on at the Bank House, he
had himself elected to remain there. He had
gone so far as absolutely to refuse to return to
his father's house under the present circumstances.


There was yet another detail of the morning's
work which the writer neglected to
supply, though it had struck him forcibly at
the time. When he had driven into JSTewton
in such humiliation as his worst nightmare had
never suggested, in the middle of his dismay
and confusion, while he had hardly dared to
raise his honest eyes and confront his numerous
acquaintances, he had been impressed by finding
them nowhere. All Newton was palpitating
and quaking with the news, but it looked like
a town deserted by its inhabitants. In the first
blush of the catastrophe there was a natural
recoil from witnessing its result. The same
people who might tomorrow run to crowd
and stare at the ugly spectacle of human
collapse and degradation drew back and kept

out of sight to-day. Not a face was visible at
a window, not a head was thrust out of a shop
door. A few foot-passengers and drivers of
carts and carriages in the streets made as if
they did not see anything unusual going on.
The lamentable downfall of the Priors and
Crabtrees was not beheld, to begin with, by a
triumphant populace.

'Call no man happy till he die,' said the
wise man. In a like spirit, ' call no day
wretched till the day close.' The night before,
Bennet had bemoaned an ignominious ending
to a marked day in her life, which she had
rashly chronicled beforehand with a white
stone. In her ignorance she had railed at
the past evening, and counted it the most
intolerable she should ever have to know. Yet,
matched with the woful day which had followed,
she was inclined to look back on the
moment of Jack's betrayal of their engagement,
and call its vexation  poignant as it was at the
time, sweet and not bitter, full of compensations

lit up with hope in the future, having no real
appalling burden of misfortune on the point of
falling and crushing every bright prospect.

Bennet believed she only got through the
long summer day of Jack's arrest by the excitement
of her appeal to his father, and the bustle
of work into which she plunged for his deliverance.


Night came at last bringing the merciful
shrouding darkness and oblivion which is at
once so welcome and so terrible to the
wretched, because with light consciousness
must return.

John Prior had been in the habit of reading
family prayers from the date of his marriage
and of his becoming the responsible head of a
household. As ten o'clock struck he came
mechanically into the drawing-room and sat
down in his customary chair, but, when the
bell was about to be rung to summon the
servants, he put out his hand to arrest the
summons. ' I cannot, Susan,' he said hoarsely

to his wife, 'I cannot to-night or tomorrow
either, after what happened this morning.
It is not fit. I would not face the very maids
if I could help it, and this must seem mockery
to them.'

But Mrs. Prior rose up, all herself again for
the moment, came round from her corner to
his side, and pled with him.

If we have asked God's protection and
forgiveness all these years, John, shall we fail
to seek them now, when we want them more
than ever? Shall we fling back His past
mercies and present pity m the face of our
Maker ? We have done nothing that we need
fear to look in the faces of our fellow-creatures.
They know that as well as we do, and will not
misjudge us or forget that we have led honest,
friendly lives among them. Let them see you
be the man you've always been ; show that you
trust them, and that you trust God still, with
your unhappy children as well as with yourself.
I ask it as a favour of you, John Prior,

and I have not asked any personal favour for a
honos time. Jane will brine the books before
the servants come and look up the places, so
that the ordeal may be short. If you like I'll
read the chapter and psalms, as I did when
your eyes were ailing  don't you remember ? '
He remembered what an effort it had cost
the shy woman to control herself and summon
courage to assume, even so far, the office of
the family priest to the household in days gone
by. But now her tongue did not falter, and
her thin cheek was neither dyed with a blush
nor robbed of every vestige of colour, as she
sat by his side in the midst of those who had
seen the manner in which her son and daughter
had been taken from her that morning. Thus
some drops of the dew of Heaven were distilled
and dropped in soothing balm to quiet the
strife of tongues and soothe the fever of
anguish in these poor tortured hearts.

CHAPTEE IV.

AN EMBASSY.

Days, even weeks, passed, until a sort of gruesome
familiarity grew up in the minds of people
interested and uninterested in an event so
improbable, disgraceful, and unspeakably miserable
as the charge against Mrs. Lambert Crab-tree
and her brother.

It began to be a matter of course, as if it
had been a conclusion always to be anticipated,
that Susie Crabtree and her brother had been
accused of robbing Crabtree's Bank, had been
arrested, were out on bail, and must stand their
trial at the Assize held at a country town
which, fortunately, was not Newton, but Crow-minster,
several miles further from Eedcot.

The whole incredible, wretched story seemed
to ring in Bennet Gray's ears from morning tonight
till every syllable was lodged in her
memory and riveted there, and her entire
min was usurped so that she could think of
nothing else, as when life or death in a sickroom
engrosses the faculties of the watchers.
Remonstrances from without, of which there
were some, though there could not be many,
touched her but slightly. One of the late
Josh Gray's friends, a light of the law whom
she had consulted, took the trouble to write
and deliver a strong opinion upon the late
great practitioner's cousin and heiress mixing
herself up with people who could get into such
grave trouble as had befallen the Priors. But
he received so unqualified an answer for his
pains that he decided the young lady had a
mind of her own, and must be left to waste
poor Josh Gray's money as she chose. Mary
Burton left her school for a day, and brought
her father with her, for additional weight to

VOL. III. E

bear on her friend ; and Bennet kissed and
shook hands and thanked them, but was as
stone to the faintest hint of giving up a lover
in such a plight as Jack Prior's.

Mat Crab tree, who had been fully enlightened
throughout their acquaintance with
regard to Miss Gray's possessions, when he was
told of the line of conduct she was pursuing,
discussed it apart with John Prior, who had
been overborne by her into taking her at her
word. Mat induced the squire of Ptedcot to
make a fresh stand, backed by a responsible
ally, and to remonstrate anew on the sacrifice
she was bent on making. Mat Crab tree explained
elaborately how money could be raised
as he himself was raising it, without having
recourse to a young lady who at that moment
was totally unconnected with the Priors either
by blood or marriage.

But Miss Gray resisted the two men, either
of them old enough to be her father, as stoutly
as if they had been her contemporaries.



I can surely do what I like with my own.
What is it to anyone else how I dispose of my
money ? I have often mourned over being an
orphan without near relatives, but I have
thought there was one small compensation  I
was my own mistress,' she protested, almost
angrily. ' Why do you force me to tell you
over again that I promised myself to Jack when
I was poor, and that, as I will never go back
from my word, whatever he may do or say, he
is the next thing to my husband in my eyes ?
If you will not accept my help I shall engage
counsel on my own responsibility, and let the
world think what it chooses.'

Ben net had imagined Jack Prior owning
and claiming her before his friends ; but, as it
turned out, it was she who had to own and
claim Jack, and she did not flinch from the obligation.
She stood the brunt of every attack
on her unmoved. Not only was she unlike
Susie Crabtree in not being given to cast her
burden on another, and to cling to whoever



 \VVVm%

would bear the imposition, Bennet was not even
upheld by Jack. He went on steadily, refusing
to come out to Eedcot, where Susie would have
had no objection to reappear if she had got any
encouragement. Jack only wrote one letter in
return for the score of letters Bennet Gray sent
him, not caring  at least not caring sufficiently
to cause her to let her pen lie idle for twenty-four
hours  that she had no answer save that
single note. He told her so briefly in the page
and a half she could only guess at the mortal
misery with which the words were scrawled,
that their engagement, with all their happy
hopes and plans for the future, was at an end.
A man charged with a bank robbery, and
bound to undergo a trial, whether he were
found guilty or not, was not a fit husband for
her or any innocent girl of spotless reputation
and honourable antecedents, even though she
had been as penniless as he had thought her.
She was to have nothing more to say to him.-
He believed it would have been a happy

riddance, even if all this had not happened ;
an ugly, stupid, idle cub, who had been ' no
good ' to anybody connected with him. She
Avould be infinitely better without him, if she
could only see it, and he hoped she would be
happy, and said with his whole heart, God
bless her for all she had wished to be to him.
But he could not hear of the connection lasting
a day longer ; he would be a selfish brute to
think of it.

On the other hand, ever since she had
known him, when Jack lead fallen over head
and ears in love with her on the first day of
their acquaintance, Bennet had felt in some
occult fashion accountable for the lad, bound to
look after him, take care of him, and cherish
him. It was from no want of manliness in him.
Manliness was one of Jack's most conspicuous
characteristics ; and in place of being backward,
he had been rather too forward and
sanguine in urging his suit when he had nothing,
independent of his father, to offer the woman

he sought for his wife. It was the peculiar tie
which unites certain natures, the form which
love takes in the hearts of some women, and
those among the noblest of their sex. Bennet's
young lover was her natural charge, as well asher
natural protector. He was, as coming
events cast their shadows before, her lord and
master ; he was at the same time nearly as much
her boy as he was his mother's.

Bennet's command of the means to carry
on the contest had earned for her, without claim
on her part, the right to be consulted. Besides,
her quick intelligence and fearless spirit would
have qualified her to come forward in any difficulty.
She had learned all there was to know,
and had been taken into masculine confidences
from which the other women in tenderness for
them had been excluded. Yet Mrs. Prior could
have shared the knowledge with Bennet and
not have given way, but only grown more full
of resource the greater the demand on her
powers  only Mrs. Prior had elected that there

should be no alliance between her and her
future daughter-in-law. The consciousness of
the severed friendship, which had been so sore
at first, had ceased almost to be felt by Bennet.
For how could she pause to dwell on any minor
grievance when her heart was full to bursting
of Jack and his piteous strait ?

Bennet had been forced to apprehend the
seriousness of the outlook, not only that the
presumptive evidence was next to damning
against Susie before so startling and prejudicial
a step as the arrest of a woman in her position
was risked by competent authorities, but that
there were many unlucky coincidences in apparent
corroboration of Jack Prior's participation
in his sister's guilt which might compromise
him fatally. His too opportune arrival at
Newton the night before the volunteer ball and
the robbery. His failing to repair at once to
Eedcot, which would only have been natural
after a long absences instead of staying on with his
sister, yet with a kind of secret consciousness,

neither showing himself in the town nor appearing
at the ball, but lying in wait, as it were,
till his services were called for. His anxiety to
get away before the baffled attempt, at robbing
the bank had been discovered ; so that he
started next morning without so much as waiting
for breakfast. Above all, his dogged silence
in declining to make any statement which would
throw light on the matter, all where so many
suspicious circumstances which the accused
man's counsel, however skilful and eminent
in his profession, would find it hard to get
rid of.

There was one little glimmer of comfort
which came to Bennet in her tribulation ; not
only was Jane free from envy of the supremacy
to which her fellow-student had attained, and
inclined to be sisterly with a greater longing
for sympathy on her own account than the girl
had ever before experienced; but just as a
spiritual door had closed between Bennet and
Mrs. Prior, so a mode of communication was

opened, and grew wider day by day, between
Miss Gray and John Prior. The young woman,
the heritage of whose age and character it was
that she could not despair and would not
doubt, who was devoted to her purpose
unhesitatingly and unsparingly, gained with
every hour upon the beaten, disappointed man.
Her nature worked upon his, till she restored
to some extent his tottering belief in his son.
At least Jack could not be base when she
vouched for his truth. Her unshaken conviction
of his worth went far to prove him worthy
in a fashion. Bennet shed tears of joy in her
night of sorrow when she found out for
herself that John Prior had been to Newton,
and been at the Bank House, where he had
asked Jack to accompany him to the post-office
and the railway station  a request which Jack,
taken unawares and suspecting nothing, had
granted. The result was that the father and
son had been seen together in the most public
places in the town, and that one of the

disastrous exaggerated allegations likely to be
brought against the young man  namely, that
he was an incorrigible scapegrace, at open war
with his father  must be materially weakened
by this contradictory evidence.

Bennet did not know whether the incident
reached Mrs. Prior, and whether she set it down
also to the debtor and creditor account she
had established between herself and the woman
whom her son loved, and who loved him.
Mrs. Prior might look upon it as a fresh
wrong done to that other woman who had
loved him longer, asking nothing again ; as
one more instance in which she, the wife and
mother, had been defrauded even of her wifely
voice, her influence with the father on behalf
of the son.

Withal, Mrs. Prior had risen up to meet
adversity as best she could. She had been
quiet and self-restrained. For some time previously
the reins of domestic government had
been held slackly in her hands. The old

house, with old Martha the cook, old Eichard
the coachman, the old gardener, and the
younger servants under them, had very much
kept itself. It was different now, when a
stormy blast had shaken the establishment to
its foundations, upset routine and rules, and
let loose the elements of disorder, well-nigh
of anarchy. However faithful the staff of
servants, they could not be expected to sustain
the ordeal unmoved. But Mrs-prior gathered
up the reins, superintended each department
as in her younger, more active years, saw that
all was ordered rightly as it had been heretofore,
and provided carefully for the comfort of
each member of the community, including her
natural enemy. Miss Gray. When the domestic
machinery worked once more like clock-work,
a sense of stability returned to the house,
which had been, as it were, rocking wildly.
Men and women went back to their several
duties  dinner was not three minutes too late,
the plate was cleaned, the horses were groomed

with the accustomed regularity. A fulness
of confidence succeeded to the sense of unsteadiness
when Mrs. Prior was heard talking
to Tommy, checking an uncanny disposition
to howl which the old dog, as he detected
something wrong, with canine acuteness, had
manifested lately to the superstitious horror of
the servants' hall. The mistress of the family
was even seen to sit down in her own corner
and put a few stitches into one of her quilts
a proceeding which had an excellent effect.
The little Woods ceased to stray over the
house and gather such husks of gossip as the
children could pick up. They began to play
again at their old familiar games, to attend
to their rabbits and pigeons, to confine the
children's chatter to their own small concerns.
The grown-up people commenced to believe
it possible not only that the sky would not
fall and the world would go on as it used
to do, but that the clouds might pass away
from Eedcot, the sun shine out once more as

it had shone a year  a month .ago, and everything
be as it had been formerly.

Mrs. Prior contributed her quota, and that
not a small one, in stemming the tide, which
might have prevailed till it accomplished the
demolition of the family framework.

John Prior forbade his wife and daughter
to enter Xewton. Mrs. Prior complied conditionally.
She would respect her husband's
wishes unless  she did not say what misadventure
or what epoch was to limit her obedience.
Jane shrank of her own accord from the expedition.
She could bear to see Jack, but not
Susie. Her unprincipled extravagance had
much to do with all the misery. Jane did not
dare to say more even to her own heart.

It had come to this, then, that Bennet Gray,
acting on her own idea and on a hint from
Jack Prior's counsel, volunteered her services,
and accepted a commission from Mr. Prior to
go to Newton, see both Susie and Jack, and
gather what she could of the truth from them.

If John Prior had to give up his daughter,
there was no help for it  at least he might take
refuge in the knowledge that she was a married
woman, and that, if she had committed a crime,
it must have been at the instigation of a reprobate
of a husband, dio had exposed her to the
danger of which he was to have reaped the
fruits. But John Prior could not suffer his son
to be the victim of his sister's treachery. Whatever
the father had thought of the son in the
past, it was John Prior's part to come to Jack's
rescue now ; it was all the more and not the
less his part because of the alienation which
had existed between the two. Jack's cause
was his father's cause, and that of the woman
who would go through fire and water for her
lover, who loved him even as the woman who
had borne him loved him. The lad was not
forsaken.

There was no objection to Bennet Gray's
going to Newton. She would not be openly
shamed in the deed. As Mat Crabtree had

said, there was as yet no confessed connection
of blood or marriage between her and any
Prior or Crabtree. Her position in the Eedcot
family, which was all the public knew of her,
would render it not at all out of the way that
she should go as a messenger between Eedcot
and the Bank House.

Bennet had almost forgotten during these
heavily-cumbered days whether the season was
summer or winter. When she event up to her
room for her hat and jacket, she recognised,
almost with wonder, that the noisette roses were
still drooping in great white clusters, like
sculptured flowers, on a railing opposite. The
shiver which, when she had leisure to feel it,
was always running through her veins now,
must be in the blood and not in the air. As
she came down stairs she saw Jane by the hall
table tying string round some little parcels.
One of them contained a few of Susie's superfluities,
a pet fan, a favourite scent bottle, a
hood to wear when she indulged in a nap,

which their owner had left behind her at Eed-
cot and was clamouring to have sent to her
With another unusual instance of recollection
and consideration in trifles, showing how Jane
was waking up from her mental absorption, she
had also put uj3 some of cook's cakes, and the
little Woods' books and toys for Molly and
Piers Crab tree. Jane explained  ' Their uncle
says they are very much left to themselves,
poor children, while Susie will not let them betaken
out of the turmoil to run about in peace
either here or at Hay bridge. What I have
sent may help to amuse them. You will not
mind looking after the parcels, will you, Miss
Gray?'

Jane refrained from the use of Bennet's
Christian name, not because of any reluctance
to take the privilege of their future relationship
with her friend, but because of that habitual
obliviousness and lack of glibness which made
Jane in her wisdom so devoid of tact and
practical cleverness, compared to Susie in her

folly. Even under the circumstances, Bennet
could not refrain from a suspicion that Jane
Prior had probably let her stumbling choice fall
on the most indigestible of cook's dainties and
the most unentertaining of the Woods' books
and toys  those ' Conversations on the Telescope
' and that miniature globe, Jane's own
gifts originally, which were supposed to combine
instruction and amusement. Molly and
Piers might snatch these loans out of each
other's hands, come to blows over the temporary
novelties, tear or break them, but would not
otherwise honour them with juvenile patronage.
However, the amiable intention was everything.


Of course, I'll not mind,' said Bennet. ' Is
there anything else I can do ? '

Yes, there were two small baskets  one of
summer pears, the other of mushrooms  also
standing on the hall table, but Jane knew
nothing of them. She would hardly have
proposed the last as a free gift to the little

VOL. III. F

Crabtrees. Perhaps the baskets were on the
table by accident, and it was not meant that
Miss Gray should take them in the phaeton
with her.

Mrs. Prior arrived on the scene in time to
account for the baskets.

May I trouble you ? ' she said formally yet
simply enough ; ' Susie is very fond of mushrooms,
which none of the rest care for. She
used always to claim the first from Eedcot,
where we have not had them early this year.
The pears are from the tree which Jack planted
when he was a boy in his garden.'

Is there nothing more 1 can say from
you ? ' asked Bennet, faltering in her wistfulness.


Nothing ; thanks.' Mrs. Prior froze again
instantly.

Bennet was not to be favoured with any
communication beyond what the things themselves
called for. Mrs. Prior chose they should
go, and therefore used the go-between, though

the tokens of the mother's faithful remembrance
and affection had to pass through
Bennet Gray's hands. Well, Susie wouldn't
care if she had the mushrooms, and surely
the pears would taste all the sweeter to Jack
in spite of the renunciation he had brought
himself to write  a renunciation to which the
person to whom it was written would not
consent.

Make Jack come out and ' see us,' was
Jane's last injunction, given with a wavering
smile, aloud, before everybody who cared to
listen. Oh, it was not very difficult for her
to transfer her right to Jack and her influence
over him to another woman ! Her own thoughts
were straying from Eedcot to a new home
with another master than either John Prior or
his son after him.

Bennet drove in solitary state to Newton,
her mind wandering now and then from the
business which engrossed it to her first drive
along that road with Jane on the November

F 2

afternoon, and to the last coming home, in the
June prime of the year, with Jack, to be soon
followed by a disastrous parting. But she
was never sufficiently disengaged, hopeful, and
far-sighted to dream of herself as one day
mistress of Eedcot driving in to Newton in a
new carriage, with young horses and a young
husband.

The market town had resumed its normal
aspect  sleepy in summer, with dogs stretched
in the middle of the pavement, cats sitting
basking at open doors, birds in their cages
hanging by open windows  stagnant in winter,
with the animal world housed and doors and
windows closed tightly. However vigorously
gossip might still be prevailing in the interiors,
it had ceased till a more exciting moment to
flow out and be demonstrative in the streets.
The aristocratic quarter of the Bank House,
which had been roused from its repose on the
day when Crabtree's Bank stopped payment,
was restored to its pristine quiet. The large

houses with the flights of broad steps to their
front doors, and the pillars to their garden
gates, looked as fixed in their substantial
respectability and serene dignity as ever.
When Bennet passed the little green, shaded
by its one big elm opposite the church porch,
the clock in the church tower chimed the hour
with a drowsily precise monotony that added
to the peace of the blue air in which white
butterflies and brown bees and " swallows with
ringed throats went and came. Did Susie and
Jack listen to the bells as they rang out at
sunset and in the hush of the night ? And did
they remind him of an all-seeing Judge who
knew what the young man would not tell,
though his silence might be dooming him and
those he loved best to shame and misery P
Was Susie moved by the old familiar sound
to repent of the destruction she was bringing
upon her father's house, the brother's ruin she
was compassing beyond the hope of redemption
? Susie had accustomed herself to regard

these bells as among the relics of a worn-out
superstition, but did the solemn, wistful reverberations
awaken no lingering echo in her
heart in what must be her sharp tribulation?


The region was like itself, but its centre
had undergone a melancholy transformation.
The closed bank with its shuttered windows,
was an image of death which gave a shock to
the visitor who had not been there since the
current of business was arrested at its source.
The Bank House had no drawn blinds or locked
doors, but it had a dead-alive, and, what
was worse, a stigmatised air. The* spacious,
important building figured to Bennet's fancy
as a ticket of-leave house subjected to the
slumbering vigilance of the law, and to a
nervous, horrified avoidance on the part of
its neighbours. The man loitering at the
corner was like a policeman out of uniform.
There was nobody arriving or departing from
the most hospitable of mansions. The doorsteps

were not so spotlessly white as they had
been wont to be when the numerous callers
on Mrs. Lambert Crabtree's visiting list flocked
from far and near to py her their respects.
The bell was not so promptly answered.
Roger, the man-servant, who did duty in the
deshabille of his working jacket, either for that
or for some other reason, stared stupidly for a
moment in answer to Bennet's inquiry for his
mistress, as if he had not been accustomed to
hear her asked for lately or to show up visitors
to her.

Susie without her court ! It was hard to
conceive, even by one behind the scenes.
But the mistress of the house was at home to
Bennet, and she had only to wait a very few
moments in the back drawing-room, where
Jack had waited on the night before the
ball. He was not waiting there now. Eoger,
who had taken up her card and slipped
on his coat in the interval, returned to say
Mrs. Crabtree would see Miss Gray in Mrs.

Crabtree's room. Bennet followed the man,
with barely time to speculate where Jack
could be, and to school her heart in the near
prospect of the meeting with Susie in such
circumstances.

CHAPTEE Y.

AN APPEAL TO SUSIE.

There was a hush in the house  not unlike
that breathless pause between the going out of
a life and the committal of dust to dust  which
the nati-ally strident voices of Molly and Piers,
subdued by distance, as they ranged the nursery
regions, did little to break. The servant
Eoger, a steady, dull man of mature years,
chosen for his imposing height and some talent
in waiting at table, spoke in a whisper, and had
a crushed, sat-upon air, as if recent events and
police investigations had been too much for
him. The housemaid whom Bennet passed on
the landing first cast down a pair of somewhat
sly eyes, as if it were impolite and unfeeling

iiiider present circumstances to look at any-stranger
coming to the house ; but on second
thoughts the girl looked up and stared boldly.
It was only the handsome governess at Eedcot,
who was no more than a better sort of servant
herself, with whom no great ceremony need be
practised, who might even exchange meaning
glances with Sarah.

Lambert Crabtree was not with his wife, for
which Bennet was thankful ; neither was Jack,
for which the new-comer felt inclined to think
she was thankful also. She had made up her
mind beforehand that if it had been otherwise
she would have borne the brunt of whatever
feelings Susie might have thought fit to express,
and begged to speak with the young man apart.

Susie was alone, and had seemingly been
doing nothing, though as a rule she was full of
small occupations. She sat in the pretty, cosy
room opening from her bedroom, and had
been wrapped in a shawl. She must have
been feeling, in spite of the warm weather, the

same fitful, spurious cold of which Bennet had
been half conscious. As Susie rose, letting the
shawl fall from her shoulders, it was seen that
she was as carefully dressed as usual, but for
the second time in her life, she gave the impression
that she had not displayed her wonted
nice judgment in the selection of colour and
material. These were not becoming to her,
though her dress in itself was as well thought
out and finished in detail as her dresses always
where. The colour was a dull blue, which did
not harmonise with Susie's brunette complexion ;
the stuff was soft and clinging, exposing any
failure in youthful plumpness, any growing
tendency to prominence in elbow and neck-bones
and shoulder-blades.

Bennet received the same momentary shock
which had struck Jack on the night of his
return to England  that of a sudden meagreness,
even meanness of outline and feature, a
battered, broken, furtive look about the brilliant
little beauty. It somehow struck Bennet

Gray, for the first time, with a sense of the unutterable
pity and wretchedness of the affair
where Susie Crabtree herself was concerned.
It was as if one of the butterflies outside, flitting
and gaily across the gazer's path, had suddenly
dropped at her feet with disabled wings
their delicate dust brushed off, themselves
smirched by the soil with which they had come
in contact, the entire butterfly a helpless, worthless
creature, spoilt beyond mending in the
grace and beauty which had been it sole claim
to regard.

Before the notion could do more than flash
across Bennet's mind, the idea was effaced by
the rush of suavity and graciousness with which
Susie received the intruder. A crushed butterfly,
indeed ! This was rather a small queen
winningly affable to a remote satellite. For it
was not Mrs. Lambert Crabtree's cue to acknowledge
the engagement to her brother  of
which she was quite well aware. She had also
been told deliberately and advisedly by Mat

n

Crabtree of the true state of matters in reference
to Bennet's money and to the assistance
she was rendering Mr. Prior, on the ground of
her engagement to his son, which she had confessed
to him, and by which she stood. But
Susie preferred, for various reasons, to see in
Bennet only the little Woods' governess. So
long as Bennet herself did not communicate
certain facts to Susie, the latter was not obliged
to admit an acquaintance with a reversal of
position, which, in spite of Mrs. Lambert Crab-tree's
well-known amiability, was decidedly
distasteful to her. She chose to ignore the
truth as long as possible.

There was only a slight breach in Mrs.
Crabtree 's graciousness, when she stopped in
the middle of her profuse declarations of pleasure
at seeing Miss Gray, to ask sharply why her
sister had not come. Susie went on to protest
petulantly that Jane or mam-ma ought to be thereto
look after her, for she was in danger of dying
of laughter since the tragedy of the bank robbery

"had merged into the comedy of her and
Jack being accused as the burglars. It was
'rich,' to quote Lamb, too good for anything
out of Mark Twain. Susie said this with glittering
eyes fastened on Bennet's face, so that
not a shade of meaning there had a chance of
escaping her.

So pleasant for you to come, dear,' Mrs.
Lambert Crabtree murmured in honeyed accents,
after she had established her visitor in a lounge
opposite her, ' when I happen, oddly enough,
to be all by myself, idle and able to entertain
you. Lamb has gone off' to the opening of the
new town hall at Mailing. His brother was
decidedly grumpy about it, and wished him to
stay away. Such nonsense !  as if a man could
not show himself in public because an unfortunate
bank had failed, with the additional farce of
the banker's wife being charged with breaking
into it beforehand  for her private pleasure, I
presume,' remarked Susie, with supreme scorn.
Oh, dear ; it is too absurd. Lamb will see all
the neighbours as well as witness the ceremony,



and afford our friends some amusement with
the tale of our grotesque dilemma.'

Bennet had her own opinion of the delicate
propriety of Mr. Lambert Crabtree's appearance
at the opening of the Mailing town-hall, and
also of the reception he was likely to meet
with from his former friends if he attempted
to rehearse for their benefit a haw-haw burlesque
of his misfortunes.

But Susie did not wait to elicit an opinion.
She wished to speak on her own account. ' I
should have liked to have gone with Lamb, and
seen all the world, and made them laugh,' she
added with audacious coolness, ' at having to
shake hands with a burglar or burglars 
which is it, dear Miss Gray ? You know you
are an authority as good as a dictionary.'

In speaking Susie had made mocking gesture
of shaking hands, when two of the many
rings she was in the habit of wearing dropped
from the slender, waxen-ike fingers, and rolled
across the floor. Their owner anticipated Bennet
in quickly stooping and picking them up,

protesting impatiently, as she replaced them,
that jewellers were so stupid in making rings
too large, as if everybody had hands like cooks.

But even Lamb would not hear of me accompanying
him,' Susie took up the dropped
thread of her conversation in a plaintive, ill-used
tone, ' in case any of these tiresome lawyers
should call and wish to see me in my
absence. I'm sure TVe told them all I have to
tell a hundred times,' she exclaimed wearily.

Has your brother  has Mr. John Prior
zone with Mr. Lambert Crabtree ? ' asked Bennet,
forcing herself to a hesitating effort, in
agitation that seemed in danger of suffocating
her.

What do you say ? Whom do you mean ?
Is it Jack ? ' counter-questioned Susie, with a
pretty puzzled air. 'I can't quite tell,' she
answered carelessly. ' Anyhow, he is out ; '
Bennet's heart fell with the weight of lead.
He is a good deal out in this fine weather.
He goes fishing in the trout stream down in
the meadows where the lawyers, if they like.

cau find him, and tackle him too. What do
they wish to get out of us ? ' She returned to
her former grievance, her plaintiveness passing
into peevishness. ' If there is nothing kept back,
how can there be anything for them to discover P
Unless they mean to work upon us by mental
torture, as the Inquisitors  no doubt you can
recall all about them, for you know everything,
you happy woman  tortured the bodies of the
victims, till we are driven to contradict ourselves
and tel lies in sheer desperation. It is so silly,
such a piece of red-tapis, to make so great a
fuss about a wretched trifle,' she ended, with a
quick, restless sigh.

They cannot help themselves,' said Bennet
gravely.

But the money was not taken, after all,'
insisted Susie.  ' At least, I am told it was
found secreted in odd places about the house,
as a jackdaw might have secreted it. Do you
think there had been any jackdaw or magpie
in the Bank House, and that it could have

VOL. III. G

broken into the safe?' with a nervous, half-hysterical
laugh. Then she began again more
composedly  ' The bank has failed, certainly,
and it seems the assets do not produce much.
I mention it in confidence ; indeed, I believe
you will have heard it already, since you are a
person in trust at Eedcot  I understand a great
comfort to my family,' and Susie bent as gracefully
and gratefully to Bennet as if the speaker
vere herself a pattern of filial virtue, and did
not know a syllable more than she implied.
It is doubtful if the bank is ever opened again,
which is a pity, to be sure. But if a great
many people are ruined, why, they are ruined,
and it cannot be helped. The thing is done
and cannot be undone. It will not bring the
bank's credit or the people's money back, for
them to persist in persecuting me and Jack.'

It is not the people,' said Bennet, but Susie
did not appear to hear or heed her.

It was a good joke to begin with, but
everybody must see it becomes tiresome when

it is prolonged. It is horribly inconvenient
after a time to be kept at home and teased by
useless questions. It is not as if we  Lamb)
and I  have not suffered. We are ruined, I
tell you, like the rest of the world, by that
wretched bank for which Lamb was always
working like a slave. We are positive paupers,
dependent with our children on pap-pa and
Mat Crab tree,' explained Susie in a tone of
injured innocence, as if the imperiousness
she thus flaunted were an order of merit under
the circumstances, a sign of integrity, and a
claim to forbearance which could not be denied.
I am afraid you don't understand,' said
Bennet, gently enough, but with a quiver of
indignation in her voice. The miserable little
woman was, as Bennet had feared, impregnable
in her selfishness, wilfully blind, nearly incapable
of recognising any rights or needs save her
own, and therefore hopelessly disingenuous
and radically dishonest. ' The bank robbery,
though it was baffled, is not in itself a trifle.

G 2

The situation of anybody implicated in it, even
by suspicion, is serious. The ponce, with their
experience, say the crime must have been
attempted by some person well acquainted with
the house, probably by some inmate of it.'

The police will say anything,' said Susie,
turning away her head. ' I have always heard
the Bobbies are ninnies the instant they are
taken off their ordinary beat.'

I think that statement ought to be taken
with some reserve,' answered Bennet drily :
and we have to do with several highly-trained
men from Scotland Yard as well as with the
local police. Have you no suspicion, Mrs.
Crab tree, of any member of your household
who could have been misled and  and tempted
into the commission of such an act ? *

No, unless that starling  starling was it,
or jackdaws' demanded Susie, with uneasy
levity. ' No,' she repeated shortly and with a
shade of sullenness, turning round the rings
which had grown too loose for her fingers ;

no one can say I have accused anybody  not
even Jack.'

Jack ! ' exclaimed Bennet, in utter horror,
your own brother, to whom you offered hospitality
; you even pressed him to stay that he
might be a support to you in your husband's
absence.' This amount of information had
been wrung from Jack with regard to his remaining
at the Bank House in Newton in place
of going out to Eedcot on the evening of his
arrival from Australia.

Susie winced, but recovered herself in a
second. ' Well, I must say, Miss Gray,' she
declared coldly, and with a little drawl, ' the
interest which you are so good as to take in our
family affairs carries you rather too far. If you
will forgive me for mentioning it, it causes you
to forget yourself, until you speak as if you
were one of those martinets of lawyers of whom
I was complaining. I am reduced to being
unpleasant in my turn.'

'Mrs. Crabtree, you are proud of your

family,' Bennet tried the appeal. ' Is it not
dreadful for a Prior of Eedcot, perhaps the
last representative of his name, to be in such a
position ? Would it not be worth any sacrifice
to save him ? '

I have sufficient confidence in my family,'
said Susie, sinking back with half-closed eyes,
to be satisfied that they are perfectly able to
take care of themselves without your troubling
yourself. Miss Gray.'

I have come from your father,' said Bennet,
desperately. ' Do you know he is in terrible
distress? His son, his only son, is under a
criminal charge, which everybody who knows
Jack, and you especially, are well aware, is
totally without foundation. But, unfortunately,
everybody does not know your brother, and if
by any miserable misadventure there is a conviction,
your father will never hold up his head
again, and it will kill your mother.'

Susie moved restlessly. The red spots which
had risen on her cheeks grew more burning, her

lips parted, and showed the little white teeth
within, as if her beautiful mouth was set in a
ghastly grin, until Bennet feared to look at her.
Really, Miss Gray, your interest in us transcends
everything  discretion, good-breeding,
what shall I say ? But I suppose I must excuse
the liberty because of the excellence of the
motive. I was not aware pap-pa was so fondly
attached to Jack. Indeed, I was led to think
that the old gentleman had come to regard his
heir in the light in which many old gentlemen
regard their heirs  as a ne'er-do-well from
whom nothing good was to be expected.'

'You know it was very different,' cried
Bennet, indignantly ; ' you know your father
would have rejoiced to acknowledge his mistake,
and would have been the first to relinquish
it if time had been given him. You know that
these unhappy misunderstandings only make
matters harder to bear now.'

Upon my word, you give me credit for more
knowledge than I possess,' said Susie, with a

hight supercilious gape. ' You know,' with an
insolent imitation of Bennet's manner ' that I
never pretended to be anything save a simple
woman, not a learned lady and female Solomon
like you and Jane. I really don't know the
meaning of this tirade  forgive me once more ;
you see the bad effects of listening to objectionable
language. Pap-pa and mam-ma are very
thin-skinned if they take to heart all the fooHsh
scrapes in which their children find themselves.
Ain't they concerned for me as well as for Jack ? '
with a shrillness of jealous emphasis that rose
into an imperious cry, setting at nought all
Susie's pretences of treating the whole business
as a trifle. ' I am their child as much as he is,
and I have not brought discredit on them.'

Bennet refrained by a strong force put upon
herself from saying there might be two opinions
on that head. She was still seeking to induce
her companion to do justice while justice could
yet be done, to prevent the wicked offering up
of Jack, and to persuade Susie to redeem her

wrong-doing by a frank confession which should
exonerate her brother and restore him without
a reflection on his honour to his home and
friends. At the same time, Bennet was honestly
convinced that the right course would be the
best for the culprit in every way. Bennet
argued With herself that men's and women's
positions are not the same. A man must do
and suffer on his own account. But when a
woman  especially a wife and mother  is betrayed
into an unlawful act, every extenuating
circumstance is remembered in her favour. It
is always understood that she might not have
been her own mistress. Every allowance is
made for the constraining, if not compelling,
influence of another person, whose difficulties
might have tempted him to exercise his power
in an unwarrantable fashion. Bennet tried to
say all this in general terms, and then sought
to bring it home to her hearer.

'It is no secret now that Mr. Lambert
Crabtree was deeply embarrassed. He may

have thought, and made others think, that if he
could tide over a particular date he would be
saved. He may have believed that he could
use and restore the money in time to escape
detection ; many men fall into that snare. It
is the commonest of delusions, though, of
course, it is not true, and it is not right  not
right ! ' repeated Bennet, unable, in her integrity,
to persist in the euphemism ; ' it is to cross
the boundary which divides honesty from dishonesty,
to overstep the bounds that make a
man a keeper or a plunderer of his neighbours'
goods. But oh ! Susie Crabtree, don't you see
that all mercy and consideration will be shown
to you if you will return to your duty and right
Jack, whom you have so cruelly wronged ?
You need not even throw the blame on your
husband. A wife is not called on to do that,
and I have reason to think in this case it will
be taken for granted, though not acted upon.
Mr. Lambert Crabtree will not be arrested or
placed in danger  there is no charge against

him. You have simply to say it was you who
unlocked the safe and took out the notes and
bonds, that your brother lead nothing to do with
the robbery, and knew nothing of it any more
than your innocent children knew.'

Bennet stopped abruptly, for Susie rose up
flaming with wrath. 'I have stood a good
deal from you. Miss Gray, but this is too much.
I have never dreamt of asking your advice,
and you volunteer an opinion that I should
criminate myself in a matter with which it
seems you are better acquainted than I. Bonds r
What bonds ? I never heard of them. I am
unable to follow you.'

The bonds had been mentioned in Susie's
presence before, but she had been too excited
to notice the allusion. Poor Major Coplestone's
missing property meant nothing to her. She
made a struggle to keep down her passion, and
seeking to substitute haughtiness for anger,
lapsed in a trice into feminine puerility. 'Among
other things I have to complain of,' protested

JSusie tearfully, in the strength of her emotion,
while I address you as Miss Gray I do not
see that you have the smallest title to call me
Susie Crabtree ; " me, a married woman, the
daughter of your employer! I think you
must have lost your senses.'

Bennet thought she had.

At that moment a tap at the door was
heard, and the disputants were interrupted by
the entrance of Eoger, carrying gingerly the
baskets of pears and mushrooms on a large
silver salver. He announced, in a voice which
had grown both hollow and wheezy of late,
If you please, ma'am, some summer fruit from
Eedcot.'

Susie was herself again before the salver
could be put on the table, or Eoger could quit
the room ; she clapped her hands and tripped
across to take the gift. ' Oh, how charming !
I did think mam-ma and Martha had been
selfish and set aside all the mushrooms for
ketchup.' She picked out the largest and began

to nibble at it, but suddenly threw it down with
a fresh exclamation  ' Goodness ! I forgot, they
are not cooked. I hope I have not poisoned
myself, though I daresay some people would
think that not a great loss  only, of course,'
with a malicious, defiant glance at Bennet, ' I
should carry away all my secrets with me, which
ought to make my life safe from conspirators.'
She went on flippantly, ' Such things happen
nowadays, bank robberies and the rest, that
murders do not sound so much out of the way
do they ? Are the pears for the babies? No,
for mammy's boy. I feel as if I should remember
that he had some infantile taste of
the kind  so very green, that like drinking milk
and pulling daisies, they ought to be a warrant
for his innocence.'

'Good-bye, Mrs. Crabtree,' said Bennet,
without offering the hand which might have
been scornfully rejected or softly clasped and
tenderly squeezed as the humour of the new or
the old Susie prevailed.

Good-bye, Miss Gray. Won't you suggest
the magpie theory at Eeclcot and supply the
lawyers with a " wrinkle " ? ' was Susie's parting
shot, and she looked not unlike a magpie herself
at the instant she fired it.

CHAPTEE VI.

A Remonstrance WITH Facias

Bennet Gray descended the stairs at the
Bank House, she felt too foiled and miserable
to be exasperated. She was able, however, to
turn over in her mind the distance to the
meadows by the trout stream, and the possibility
of overtaking a solitary fisher who might
have started hours before. Then she suddenly
caught through a lobby window a glimpse of
Jack Prior walking in the garden, and her
spirits rose like quicksilver.

Bennet had taken her resolution before she
was at the foot of the stairs. She had a cunning
enemy to do battle with for Jack and his
father, for truth and right. Bennet must

engage Susie with her own weapons, and condescend
to stratagem, to which Miss Gray had
vowed never to demean herself again, but it
was in order to vanquish the common foe.

Bennet Gray was sufficiently familiar with
the Bank House to know that there was a
garden-door kept unlocked during the day,
which, as in the case of several other garden-doors
in the vicinity, opened into the suburban
end of the High Street leading to the church,
bank, etc. She relied on entering the garden
by this door without letting any member of the
family, unless, perhaps, the gardener, know
that she was going to take a stroll among the
beds and borders. She also recollected with
her natural nimbleness of mind that there was
a screen of tall osiers which divided the upper
and kitchen garden from the lower, which was
the flower garden. The osiers were purposely
intended to shut out the view of prosaic forcing
frames and vulgar turnips and onions from the
windows of the house. Bennet could only

trust that she might be able from the farther
side of the screen to ,attract Jack's attention
and summon him to join her. If she did not
gain a hearing from him in this way, she felt
assured that Susie would not permit any
meeting between them which would not be
brought to a speedy conclusion by her intervention.


But as luck, or, as Bennet-liked better to
think, Providence ruled. Jack in his aimless
loitering to get rid of his time and his wretchedness
had sauntered to the upper part of the
garden, and was actually standing alone there,
idly contemplating a sprawling cucumber.
Bennet walked in, and the occupant of the path
looked up, manifestly startled, and took a step
forward, then remembering all, lifted his hat,
made a bow  formal for Jack  and positively
said  ' Good morning, Miss Gray. Has Susie
asked you to call the gardener ? Shall I find
him for you ? '

Bennet would not ]i;ivc been astonished

VOL. III. H

though the raising of Jack's hat had shown
him as white-headed as his father, for, though
the brown locks which belonged to his five-ands
twenty years had been spared, the haggardness
which brought into prominent relief
the heavy forehead, the deep-set eyes from
which the sparkle had lied, the full drooping
mouth, rendered the likeness otherwise doubly
striking. But she was not to be put off with
such a salutation from the young lover, who
had found her in what many people would
have called her obscurity, poverty, and drudgery,
and been willing to throw up his prospects in
order to go away and work with and for her.
Bennet did what she could never have imagined
herself doing, in her maidenly modesty, to
mortal man  were he fortune's first favourite.
!She went up to the trapped and betrayed lad,
straight and swift as an arrow, and in response
to his bow, his ' Miss Gray,' his ceremonious
questions, she put her arms round his neck,
before he knew what she was going to do,

kissed him on the lips, and cried for explanation
 ' Dear, dear Jack, I have found you ! '

Inevitably Jack lost his head  the wisest
son of Adam would have done it in the circumstances
 forgot his solemn resolutions, clasped
the woman whom he loved, and who loved
him, to his heart, as if nothing on earth could
ever come between them, and kissed her back
again with interest.

At last he let her go, and drew away with
a groan. ' Ah ! Bennet, it is like you to come
like this, but it cannot be, my dear little
woman.' (Be it remembered that Bennet was
as tall as Jack, but the male creature will assert
his superiority in some fashion.) ' It must
not be, so that your kindness is harder to
bear than coldness, though that is not your
fault.'

No, no. Jack ; never ! ' she protested,
coming close to him again, passing her arm
through his and causing him, with a faint
resistance on his part, to walk with her, ' That

H 2

would be doing avyay with all the good of
Cousin Josh's money. To thmk that I have
never told you* of my fortune !  that we, who
are most concerned in it, have never had a
single talk over it, though you have heard
about it from others ! Wasn't it wonderful that
it should come to the proper person just at the
proper time ? Why don't you smile and agree
with me ? Don't you know it is all to be plain
sailing now in our affairs, after you have got
out of this little mess ? '

She talked eagerly for fully ten minutes, of
what great things he and she would do with
her money  what help they might render to
Mr. Prior at Kershaw ; what benefits they
might confer on the miners ; how much percent,
the two should give back of the rents to
the farmers till their better days came ; what
cottages must be built ; what pleasure found
for Mrs. Prior and Jane ; what treats for the
children and Tommy.

It was as if she sought to dazzle him

with a glimpse of all he was renouncing,
to bribe him not to sacrifice it and her and
himself.

Jack listened with his head bent down and
his eyes on the ground, and said sorrowfully,
Good little woman ! ' and ' Kind, tender soul ! '
by way of answer.

Then she spoke more to the purpose and
besought him with all her might, as she had
besought Susie, ' For your father and mother's
sake, and for mine, Jack, if you do not care for
yourself, I implore you tell all that you know
without reservation. Mr. Cobb ' (naming Jack's
counsel) ' says you are keeping something back,
and that the mere impression you are doing so
will go against you. He says he believes you
have some idea how these keys came in the
place where they were found, and your refusing
to tell anything about them is sheer madness.
It will not save her, there is sufficient proof to
condemn her without that, and she will be
screened behind her husband, though he has

managed to escape the clutches of the law.
Oh ! you may be sure she will be dealt with
gently on your father's account, on Mat Crab-tree's,
and because she may have been  no
doubt she was  simply the tool of Lambert
Crab tree. He appears to have kept her in the
dark with regard to the chief motive for the
crime  those Mexican and Peruvian bonds of
poor Major Coplestone's, which are missing
to this day. Even at the worst, is it reasonable,
is it right, is it fair to your people and
me, is it loyal to God, to give up all, even to
your good name and your liberty, to dare  oh,
my God ! to dare  being a convict, an outcast,
for Susie, who decoyed and dragged you into
the peril to lessen the risk for herself, without a
thought of the consequences to you . '

But Jack only shook his head in a despairing
negative. It may be that he was not far
enough removed from his schoolboy career to
have risen above the iron obligation in a schoolboy's
code of honour. He would let nothing

no breach of the laws, human or divine 
force him to become an informer. He would
die rather than tell tales. *

Jack could not turn against his sister, proclaim
what he now understood perfectly, cutaway
possibly the last solid ground from under
her feet, and leave her cowering alone, hooted
by her fellows, before a judgment seat. He
could not  no, not even for 'Bennet Gray or
his mother, or anything or anybody that Eedcot
and the future might hold for him.

If it come to the worst and things go
against me,' said poor Jack, with something
like a sob in his voice, ' you will stay on with
them, dear, at Eedcot. Perhaps it is selfish to
you to think of it, but you are alone in the
world, and I know you too well to believe you
will mind the disgrace they have not deserved.
You will still let the old house be your home,
and fill a daughter's place there after all. You
will try and make up for what I have been
and done in some of the ways you have been

describing so nicely. You will do it far better
than I ever should, and I fancy it will be a
comfort both to you and to them  I tell you
it will be a thundering comfort to me, Bennet.
You will be better to the mother than ten sons,
and it will be I who gave you to her.'

Bennet was crying as quietly as she could,
not to distress him. ' Your mother does not
like me. Jack,' she said, shaking her head ' I
thought I had won her regard when she only
knew me as a schoolmistress and Jane's friend.
But she cannot forgive me, and I do not deserve
it, for deceiving her, after I had come between
you.'

Oh ! all that will pass,' said Jack, with the
ghost of his old, cheery confidence. 'The
mother is not one to bear malice long. There
is no fellow going half so generous, unless it be
yourself. She will be very fond of you.'

If it were your father,' said Bennet, smiling
faintly through her tears, ' I could have more
faith in it.'

I hear you are great friends with the
governor,' said Jack, brightening again. ' All
right. Mat Crabtree  he is a good fellow,
Mat  told me about it. Well, though my
father made enough of me as a boy, to be
admitted to his friendship as a man was an
honour he never conferred on me.'

Oh ! Jack, if you had only been patient
and tried to understand and .please him ! He
is generous, too, and he has suffered so much.
I am sure he has a good heart and cares for
you  your mother does not care more.'

Jack shrugged his shoulders slightly, but he
said ' All right ' again. ' Poor old chap, I have
been little help or credit to him ; but I have
brought you to him also, and I hope I am not
such a heartless beast as to resent my loss being
his gain. I am glad of it.'

There was a pause, and Jack's eye fell on
a half-withered red rose which Bennet was
wearing. She had forgotten it was the time
of roses, but she had mechanically accepted

a rose from one of the children, and fastened
it in the lace of her dress.

Will you give me that rose, Bennet ? ' he
asked, putting up his hand.

Not this half-withered thing,' she objected,
covering it with her own hand. ' Sam picked
it and gave it to me. It has only a quarter
of an inch of stalk, and has lost half its leaves.
If I had noticed, I should have taken it out
and flung it away. It is not worth your
having. I'll give you a basket of roses, and
pay the price of falling fathoms in the estimation
of Robert, the gardener, if you will come
out to Eedcot, as Jane bade me make you
come. NoF Then I shall venture out from
behind the screen and gather for you the very
finest Bank House rose. It is not too good
for you. Jack ; if you are not entitled to it I
don't know who is,' she said, with some
bitterness.

A Bank House rose ! ' he exclaimed, with
a frown ; ' there would be a scorpion in the

flower. What do I care for the Bank House
roses ? It would be well if I had never seen
them. That is not saying too much. No,
Ben net,' covering her hand with his, ' this one
Eedcot rose, which you have worn, from you,'
and he had it instantly.

Jack openly accompanied Miss Gray to the
Eedcot phaeton, and put her in before any
portion of the public that chose to look on
and say it was a shame of the Priors to throw
a fine-looking, lady-like girl, such as the little
Woods' governess, in the way of the reprobate
Jack Prior had proved himself  a fellow as
good as convicted of felony. Abduction, or
any kindred crime, would be nothing to him.
Had the girl no friends to look after her and
take her away from Eedcot, since this was the
manner in which the Priors made use of her ?

Jack could not be brought to say that he
would come out to Eedcot, and Bennet knew
that he would not come. She knew almost as
well as if he had told her that in his own mind

he thought it was not unlikely he had seen
the last of his father's house, where he was
born, of which he and Bennet should have
been master and mistress in their turn ; he
was probably bound for very different quarters
all Susie's doing. Yet he could not curse
Susie any more than he could denounce her.
He could only wonder at her, awe and horror
struggling with an inexpressible pity in his
heart. Susie, his lovely, mischievous, little
sister, his kind, merry hostess many a time 
a Della, a Jezebel ! It was incredible, but,
if it could be believed, the grief of it melted
rather than hardened him.

Bennet was driving back full of care and
sorrow. Yet the pleasure of having been with
Jack had been great, the assurance of his
love and that she was a comfort to him,
though not in the way she wanted, very sweet.
She half forgot the misery of the admission
that her errand had been a double failure
till she saw John Prior's tall, gaunt figure

plodding along the road in the hot afternoon
sun to meet her. He had been so impatient
for her news that he could not wait for the
arrival of the phaeton, and sought to forestall
it. She got out to walk with him and tell him
everything from a full heart. Her story was
not finished when they were nearing the house,
and he made her turn aside till the two were
at the entrance to Eedcot Quarry. Everything
was green and luxuriant still, though the songs
of the birds where well-nigh over, and the
brambles were shedding their blossoms. The
dim outline of a footpath, a single track,
meandered up among the rocks and bushes.
Mr. Prior held out his hand to lead Bennet to
the higher ground. She followed him, a little
surprised, but still thinking most of finishing
her tale.

He let her end it, then suddenly broke
in, ' Look there.' She followed the direction
of his eyes and hand, but saw nothing except
the low-lying Ladslove meadows, with their

cattle magnified in the sunny haze. She
turned mystified, troubled eyes back upon
him.

Miss Gray,' he said  and she had a keen
apprehension that his manner was a little
wild  ' let me tell you before the burden drag
me down to the nethermost pit. There is
coal in these meadows. I am acquainted
with the very spot beneath which the mineral
lies. I could have pointed out the place 
as it happened it was beneath our very feet
when Lambert Crabtree begged and bullied
me to tell him what I knew. He warned me
what would be the result of my silence, and
his words were not quite as idle tales to me,
though I must say, in justice to myself, I paid
little heed to the most savage of his insinuations.
I played the dog in the manger, for I
could not use the secret, which I withheld from
him when it might have saved him  saved the
bank  saved Susie and Jack.'

Bennet took it all in, words and meaning.

A dimness came over her eyes, and a sick
thrill to her heart, as she realised for a moment
what might have been, which John Prior
showed her. Jack, free and fearless, lighthearted
as of okl, without a cloud the size of
a man's hand on his horizon ; even Susie's fair
fame untouched ; the bank solvent, its clients
uninjured ; Bennet's money making everything
easy at Eedcot, Mr. Prior her firm friend,
Jane her sworn ally, Mrs. Prior reconciled 
cordiality and satisfaction on every hand.

But she shook off the demoralising effect of
dwelling on the dream, which had not been
fulfilled. She looked piteously m the worn
face, which was like Jack's grown old  nay,
Jack's with such remorse and misery looking
out of the hollow eyes, such suffering in the
deep lines about the mouth, as Jack, in his
regret and self-reproach and horrified appreciation
of the situation, had never experienced.
For Bennet comprehended at this moment,
with a flash of intuition, that John Prior's

lot in the matter had been harder even than
his son's.

'You did it for the best,' she said slowly
and softly ; ' all a man's instincts must have
risen up against yielding to such unmanly
pressure as was put upon you. Perhaps,
though you had given in, there would not have
been time. The discovery of the coal might
not have staved off the temptation and ruin.
You could not foresee the course of events.'

You are a good woman,' he said abruptly,
turning to go home, ' like her in the house
there. She does not know this, but she was
always of opinion that I bore hard upon the
boy, yet she has not once referred to it, or
blamed me by word or look, during these
last wretched weeks. Poor Jack and I have
been alike in this  that we have fared better
than most men, infinitely better than we
deserved, where women were concerned.'

Do not say that,' she entreated, ' though
it is good of you. Jack knows now how much

you have cared for him all the time. I believe
he is more sorry for you than for himself. He
says he was little help or credit to you  but
he woidd have been in time. Oh ! Mr. Prior,
take heart, and he will yet be a good squire
and master '

'Good Lord,' muttered John Prior, 'a
squire wh( has been tried for a bank robbery !
A coal owner who has been in the dock  not
for manslaughter, not because his negligence
has caused accidents with loss of life in his
pits, but because he was privy to a burglary
from which the most hardened poacher among
the men would have held aloof ! '

It is not true,' said Bennet ; ' and a lie
can always be lived down.'

VOL. III.

CHAPTEE VII.

THE First DAY OF THE TRIAL.

The trial of Susan Crabtree and John Prior,
younger, of Piedmont, who were accused of
robbing the safe of Crab tree's Bank, Newton,
took place in the late summer circuit, when
the Assize was held at Crowminster. The
family at Eedcot were spared the ordeal of
being called as witnesses. John Prior was
dissuaded from his original intention of facing
the worst at once, and making what atonement
he could for his share in the wrong-doing
by being present in the court.

I will go, and bring you back word every
night,' offered the woman who, even before
Jack's father and mother, had the heaviest

stake in the verdict. ' Nobody knows me
save as the Eedcot governess at Crowminster,
nor for that matter at Newton. Nobody will
take any notice of my being there. In fact,
they will guess that I have come to use my
eyes and ears and report for your benefit.
Historical precedents are not wanting,' she
ended with a poor little attempt at pleasantry.
'My duties will not last over two days, perhaps
not over one, and Eichard will put the mare
on her best paces that we may be the first
to announce an acquittal.'

In truth it was a relief for Bennet to be up
and doing to the last. She was like a man in
this respect, though so womanly in others ;
and she had a notion that it might be some
small consolation to Jack to recognise her
face with the veil of strangeness on it for
the strange crowd around him. There was no
exposure for her in the present. She could
trust herself not to give way. There would
be time enough for that in the future  the

i2

future which, at the best, might bring a certain
amount of betrayal with it, when she was seen
and known as Jack Prior's wife. But what
would be the extent of the revelation after
all ? That she had stood by her lover throughout
his tribulation ; that she had not deserted
him in his evil day, and neither Jack nor she
would feel ashamed of that peculiarity in their
history.

Besides, the sight of Bennet at the decisive
moment might overbalance the influence of
Susie, and move Jack at last to convey to his
lawyer a word on the question which chiefly
implicated him. Bennet could hardly tell
whether she would welcome or deprecate that
burst of indignant candour on Jack's part. It
would save him, there was little doubt, but save
him probably to be a prey to much the same
scruples  morbid if one chose to call them so 
which had wrecked his father's peace.  And the
deliverance which he would thus have wrought
for himself would be altogether unlike Jack.

Ultimately it was ruled that Bennet should
not go to the trial alone, but under the
guardianship of Mat Crabtree, and an aunt of
the Crabtrees, whom he had rooted out with
the general idea that she might be a boon
to Susie under the devoutly-to-be-wished-for
sequel of her release. There was an amount
of inextinguishable credulity where he had todo
with women in Mat Crabtree's imagining
for a second that any woman, especially any
elderly woman, could afford a shade of solace
to Susie, under whatever conceivable circumstances
of acquittal or condemnation. If there
had been  not any, but one woman to whom
this creature at bay, just saved from punishment
by the narrowest loophole, would have
turned, it was certainly not Miss Hopkins anymore
than it was Bennet Gray.

But at least. Mat had not been so inconsiderate
as to drag a venerable relative from
her retirement and repose, under the hallucination
that she might minister acceptably and

successfully to a pretty, interesting young
offender. Miss Hopkins, as sometimes happens,
was little older than her nephews. She had a
narrow income, and led a narrow life, and
being stolid in her well-meaningless, was more
disposed to relish the excitement of going to
the trial at Crowminster, with her nephew Mat
to take care of her  all her expenses paid, and
a handsome present hovering in the near
distance  than to shrink from the task imposed
upon her. Certainly Miss Hopkins had sustained
a shock when she read of the attempted
robbery of Crab tree's Bank, of the failure of
the bank, and, finally, that her nephew Lambert's
wife was one of the persons accused of
the robbery. But on the other hand. Mat had
assured her that the Priors  mrs. Lambert was
a Prior  were highly respectable people, and
that in all probability the charge, if it were
not withdrawn, would break down, in which
case Susie Crabtree would be a victim and
heroine, instead of a criminal.

It was the early morning of a mellow day
in August, which seemed to anticipate the
weather that sportsmen love in September
Bennet could almost fancy she heard firing
betimes in the turnip Held and among the
coverts. She caught herself watching in vain
for brown or grey coated figures attended by
troops of exultant dogs. She could not help
being reminded of what Jack's 'natural occupation
would have been, if his rashness and
heedlessness had not shaped themselves into
dire disaster, if fate or Providence had not
willed it otherwise. She might have been
walking out with Jane to see the sport. They
might have been coaxing Mrs. Prior, if the
gentlemen were not too far off, to venture along
the pleasant field paths, and have a blithe
luncheon with the sportsmen by this hedge or
that brook. They might all have been laughing
over poor Tommy's abject dismay at the
crack of a gun.

Instead, Bennet was driving with Mat Crab-tree

and Miss Hopkins. Mat was grimly silent
and heavily oppressed whenever he was not
under the necessity of keeping up the spirits of
his companions. Miss Hopkins required that
all the country houses and villages the travellers
passed should be named to her, and that she
should be furnished with biographical sketches
of the inhabitants. She also exacted that proper
attention should be paid to her own remarks
on the advantages of the landscape for sketching
purposes, with elaborate comparisons of it to
other landscapes unknown to the listeners.
Finally, she expected that proper attention
should be paid to her sagacious and practical
estimates  since Miss Hopkins believed she
had a reputation to keep up for sagacity and
practicality becoming her years  of the season's
prospects in the matter of crops, and the
chances for the agricultural labourer in the
coming winter.

It seemed straining Bennet's powers of
endurance to the utmost to drive quietly along

the road  so like other country roads, in the
morning sunshine of the genial August day
with an exacting commonplace companion forever
starting ordinary topics of conversation,
and to shut one's eyes for a moment and realise
what lay behind and what lay before. Eedcot,
more desolate than if the blinds were drawn
and the shutters closed before the presence of
the dead  the packed Court House, with Jack
and Susie brought up for trial.

But Bennet found it was a still more cruel
experience to survive when Miss Hopkins
discussed the topic of the day in a cut and dry
manner, coolly speaking out contingencies
which no one else had dared to breathe to
themselves. ' I should think that if poor Mrs.
Lambert does not get off without more ado 
I mean if there is any misadventure of justice,
she cannot be subjected to worse than a short
term of imprisonment. But, for the young
man, her brother, he is in a bad plight. I
should say he runs the risk of seven, even of

fourteen years  not of Botany Bay, for, unfortunately,
Botany Bay won't take our convicts
nowadays, but of. Dartmoor or Portland.
Dear me ! he will never be able to show face
again after that. What a pity that Botany Bay
couldn't have been kept for first-class misdemeanours
 ain't that the word? A youth
like this John Prior might have pulled up thereafter
he had sown his wild oats, and his father
might have sent him out money. Altogether,
he would have been as well disposed of ashe
deserved and as circumstances would permit.
Many younger sons don't fare much
better.'

'You don't understand. Aunt Lydia,' Mat
tried to shut her mouth. ' If anyone is innocent
in this wretched affair it is Jack Prior, and he
is the only son, the squire's heir and successor
at Eedcot.'

Dear, dear ! ' exclaimed Miss Hopkins,
taking the additional misfortune easily enough,
for the very good reason that it was of no

moment to her. ' Our neighbours' reverses are
lessons to us  don't you think so, Miss Gray ?
Everything in the world so unsteady, no saying
what a day or an hour may bring forth. Mat,
has there been sufficient attempt made to find
the real criminals? That always seems tome
the best mode of clearing the innocent.
Has there been enough energy exerted in
tracking the guilty ? '

We may trust the police for that. I can
vouch they have not been idle,' said Mat,
temporising, and suppressing a groan.

Well, then, have you thought of establishing
an alii f All my reading goes to show
that an alii is an excellent resource in an
unjust accusation.'

You will allow,' said Mat, impatiently,
that it is a ticklish thing to establish an alii
when the robbery was committed in the middle
of the night, and when both the accused persons
were confessedly in the Bank House at the
time.'

But, of course, they were sleeping in their
beds  and they can prove that ! ' cried Miss
Hopkins, triumphantly.

Aunt Lydia, if you can at any time get rid
of strong suspicion by satisfying judges and
jury  without extraneous aid, mind you  that
you were sleeping in your bed at a given hour,
your power of convincing your fellow-creatures
does you credit.'

I, Mat ! what have I to do with such a
situation ? ' protested Miss Hopkins, in outraged
respectability. 'I was never subjected
to suspicion, nor am I likely to be, I am thankful
to say. Do I look like a woman who could
be supposed capable of committing such deeds ?
I can tell you before this young lady, though
she is living in Mr. Prior's family, it is painful
enough for me to find that I am connected by
marriage  not by blood, Miss Gray  with
people who are liable to be suspected.'

And Mat had some trouble in pacifying his
offended relative.

Solitude would have been bliss even in the
circumstances, compared to the torture of Miss
Hopkins's companionship. Bennet had already
discovered that there might be disadvantages
to balance the gains of her incognito. She had
to learn the lesson to a still greater extent
presently. When Crowminster was reached,
just before the opening of the court, the streets,
always full at Assize times, were more crowded
than usual. Among the shoals of visitors
whom so extraordinary a case as the Crabtree
Bank robbery brought'to the town for the day,
Miss Gray detected a tolerable sprinkling of
the Priors' acquaintances. They scuttled out
of Mat Crabtree's way, as they had religiously
abstained from visiting Eedcot lately. It might
be that not many of them  perhaps not one of
the women would appear openly in the Court
still they were there, eager to see from behind
a screen, to hear on the earliest opportunity
the scandal of the trial.

Mat Crabtree relieved his mind by pointing

out to Bennet Gray the thronged condition of
a draper's shop opposite the Court House.

Do you know why that man has so
many county customers to day ? ' Mat inquired,
sharply.

Then he answered his own question with a
curling lip  ' Because the upper windows of
his ware-rooms command a view of the Court
House. Ladies and gentlemen stationed where
the draper's bales are wont to be piled can get
a bird's-eye vision of much of the legal drama
opposite  including judges, jury, and prisoners.
In the meantime the curious gazers do not
incur the odium of having come to gloat on
the disgrace of their former friends.'

Some of these ardent students of humanity,
notably a group of frisky young matrons,
though they avoided Mat Crabtree, pounced
upon Miss Gray, and detained her behind her
party. She was only the governess at Eedcot,
of whom her assailants had not taken much
notice formerly, seeing that she was not in

their sphere ; but she was somebody to-day.
She was sure to have a great deal of interesting
information to impart, while it was not to be
supposed that she was so affected by the family
trouble as to be beyond speaking of it. ' Oh !
Miss Gray, so glad to have met you. Do tellus
how are poor dear Mr. and Mrs. Prior and
Miss Prior ? So sad for them. How are they
bearing up under this frightful calamity ? We
could not bring ourselves to drive over, though
we were so anxious to hear, lest the poor Priors
should dream we were intruding or prying into
their concerns, which we should never dream
of doing  nothing could be farther from our
intentions  so that it is quite a godsend for us
to have come across you.' ' Is it true that Mrs.
Crab tree is very ill, and will not be brought
into court ? ' another speaker broke in.

Is there any foundation for the report tha
Jack has forfeited his bail and gone off, so that
the sentence of outlawry will be pronounced
upon him ? It is quite too incredible that the

robbery was Susie's act  a pretty, bright creature
like that, so sweet and trustful ; though,
between you and me, Miss Gray, she was
shockingly extravagant, and she may have been
the dupe of a scamp of a husband. His poor
brother is much to be felt for  he will shut
himself up with his books more than ever now.
But Lambert was a coarse man, though he was
a Crabtree. We never liked him or could
guess what Susie Prior saw in him to tempt her
to marry him ; very likely her father and
mother thought it a good match, which explains
it. But as for Jack Prior, though nobody
dreamt of such a miserable end as this comes
to, it was no secret that he has been a great
grief to his father, who gave him up long
ago.*

'You are mistaken,' said Bennet, stifling
her anger and pain, but speaking stiffly and
sternly, careless on lier own account of the
bad impression she produced on her audience.
'If Mr. Prior's son was a grief to him in the

past, the fault was not necessarily all on one
side. Mr. Prior says that himself to-day. He
lias perfect faith in the young man's innocence.
Forfeit his bail ! Who said such a thing ? Do
you think a guiltless man who never knew
either fear or falsehood would so defame himself?
Why, even a timid woman like his sister
would brave the worst before she sought such
a cowardly refuge. Mr. Prior is ready to
receive his son, and welcome him to his place
at Eedcot the moment he comes back.'

Oh ! indeed ; we are glad to hear it,'
replied the inquisitors, by the mouth of their
chief spokeswoman, expressing themselves very
dubiously, and with considerable reserve. ' We
may have been misinformed. We can only
hope the judge and jury will be of your and
Mr. Prior's opinion.'

The moment Bennet was gone the verdict
was pronounced, unanimously in this instance.
The governess girl, who had been thoroughly
spoiled by Jane Prior in her learned folly,

VOL. III. E

was a perfect firebrand. It was exceedingly
foolish in a young unmarried woman  in her
position especially  to become the champion of
a lad in Jack Prior's distressing circumstances,
a flighty young fellow at the best, sufficiently
above her in rank to account for the dust
which had been thrown in her eyes.

Bennet Gray might have entered the court
herself a prisoner under a criminal charge, sofar
as the mist before her eyes, the hum in her
ears, the whirl in her head, and the tumultuous
beating of her heart went. But this only lasted
for a time. She must control herself if she
would be of any use to Mr. Prior, any comfort
to Jack.

Mat Crabtree got seats for his companions
before he occupied his place near the counsel
for the defence. Bennet's sole desire with
regard to her seat had been that, while it was
where she could see and hear, and be within
view of Jack, it should be as inconspicuous as
possible, and she might steal to it with the

least observation. This was not easy where
Miss Hopkins was concerned. She was a
woman of imposing presence in every way,
from her large nose with its high ridge to her
habit of making audible observations on all
that passed. She was certainly daunted for a
second by the spectacle of the court and the
consideration on whom it was to sit. ' Good
heavens ! to think that Mrs. Lambert is to
come in before all these men with their files of
papers, and be nominally treated as though
she were the oifscourings of the earth,' Miss
Hopkins muttered, and subsided into meekness
for a space. Unfortunately the impression was
fleeting. Miss Hopkins was an independent,
self sufficing woman, and she soon began to
congratulate herself that it was ' a far cry ' to
the country town in which she dwelt, so that,
though her cronies might read the trial in the
newspapers with what gusto she could guess,
it was exceedingly unlikely that any of them
would be personally present on the occasion.

K 2

BURIED DIAMONDS

Apart from selfish considerations, Miss Hopkins
had no objection to notoriety, even as the
relative by marriage of county gentry, who
lead so grossly mismanaged their affairs that
they were suspected of crime, and had come
within the range of the law. She did not
subdue her voice or modify the tone of her
remarks in order to secure the obscurity which
Bennet had been tempted to hug.

'Friends of Mrs. Lambert Crabtree's and
Mr. John Prior's,' Bennet was not long in
hearing whispered on all sides. She believed
she and Miss Hopkins would be fortunate if
they missed foi ming one of the groups in an
illustrated paper, the clever artist of which had
been sent down expressly from the metropolis
to pick up grist for the publishers' mill in
scenes from the remarkable trial.

But these annoyances, though Bennet was
still capable of feeling them, were pin pricks
after all. Perhaps they served to rouse her
from the stupor of sorrow and shame into which

she was in danger of sinking, and diverted lier
mind a little from the strain of concentration
on one point.

All was very much as Ben net had sought,
with torturing ingenuity and liveliness of imagination,
to picture it beforehand. The masses
of people in the body of the court, the professional
lawyers and reporters, with their
cool, easy, accustomed to the thing air, the
judges, in their grandiose horse-hair, silk and
ermine  one of them, an elderly man with a
fresh complexion, bearing a ludicrous resemblance
to a last-century dame, highly rouged
and powdered  all were there as she had
fancied them.

When Bennet dared to look round among
the crowded audience, it was a relief to her
not to see many faces she could recognise.
The miners of Kershaw were, as a rule,
notorious for remaining off work in spite of
fines and every other discipline that could be
invented to restrain the men, whenever any

holiday that was to their King presented
itself. They pled the privations and hardships
of underground life for claiming this and other
privileges. Distance and fatigue were nothing
to the colliers. They had been known to start
in the middle of the night and tramp a score of
miles for the pleasure of beholding the last
hanging which took place outside the walls of
a jail in the county. Hangings as a spectacle
were exploded, except for jail officials ; but an
exciting trial was still an infinitely greater
treat than the most popular play could have
been to these thoroughly realistic critics. Yet,
to the credit of collier honour, there was hardly
a representative of the miners of Kershaw
present in the Court House when their masterson
and daughter stood their trial. If any of
Bennet's or Jane's scholars were there, they
must have kept their faces hidden from observation.
Only one set of hard-favoured features
struck Bennet in a vague way as familiar to
her. She had forgotten when and where it

had become familiar, but she had really seen
it, at unlikely hours, lurking about the gates at
Eedcot. The face belonged to Mr. Isaac Evans
pseudo-spy and informer, who attended the
Assize with a keener relish because the leading
case concerned the near relatives of two of
his employers.

CHAPTEE VIII.

THE ENTRANCE OF THE PRISONERS  THE
EVIDENCE LED.

What must serve as the sensation of the day,
if the trial dragged on for more than a few
hours, was the entrance of the prisoners into
the court, ushered by a turnkey and warder.
Jack Prior came first, and Bennet clutched at
the edge of the bench before her to help her
to bear the sudden surging of the solid earth
around her. Her heart leapt up again with a
bound to see how manly and composed Jack,
in his ordinary morning suit, looked as an
innocent man should look, amidst the most
compromising surroundings. There was a shade
of youthful scorn and defiance in the manliness.

but there could be no question that the self-control
and calmness were genuine attributes
of the lad's bearing, any more than there could
be two opinions on the fact that he had
inherited his father's plainness. Still, the look
of John Prior of Eedcot did his son no harm in
the eyes of those present who knew the elder
man. He was an unfortunate man, who had
not prospered, who was understood to be
disappointed and soured by the course life had
taken with him. He had reached the climax
of his misfortunes in the strange lot for a man
in his station, of being the father of the two
prisoners at the bar, but any thought of
personal dishonour in connection with him was
to this day singularly inadmissible.

In Bennet Gray's eyes Jack Prior was all
that he should have been. She could not have
wished him to look like an Apollo, or to carry
himself differently by a ban's breadth. It was
a happiness to her even at this moment that
his face brightened inexpressibly when their

eyes met, although he turned away immediately
and bent his head. She could conceive why.
She thought she could realise what he must
feel at her seeing him thus, just as she imagined
she understood what made him bend his head
still lower, and even hide his face with his
hand for a moment, when a little stir served to
indicate that Susie was coming to take her
place beside him.

What an ugly, down-looking young man ! '
Miss Hopkins was remarking emphatically.
I don't like to be uncharitable, but these
beetle-brows and that Tartar nose and negro
mouth are remarkably like what one would
meet in Whitechapel, or see in Madame
Tussaud's Chamber of Horrors.'

How dare you say such things. Miss
Hopkins ? ' Bonnet was galled into a fierce
whisper. Happily Miss Hopkins was not
listening, she rarely listened when she could
talk. ' I must say,' she went on dogmatically,
that repulsive-looking lad is a strange graft

from the criminal classes into a highly respectable
county family. I was told the Priors
were of good standing when my nephew
Lambert married among them, and Mat confirmed
the statement when he Avrote the other
day, and summoned me to stand by them.
But really I could believe anything of that
lad  I wonder if there is a possibility of his
having been changed at nurse? Such things
do happen occasionally, you know, in real
life as well as in novels. Ah! there is Mrs.
Lambert. How prettily and modestly dressed
she is, and how like a nice, innocent gentlewoman
she looks ! One would not be ashamed
to own her on the scaffold,' declared Miss
Hopkins enthusiastically, ' and Lambert is with
her, too ; how proper and devoted of him !
Don't you see her brother cannot look her in
the face ? Depend upon it, he was the culprit
though it is dreadful to think of it in a
man of his antecedents, and she is here because
she has shielded him.'

It is lie who oiiglit not to be able to
look him in the face. It is all the other way,'
groaned Bennet desperately, for it was possible
the voice of Miss Hopkins might be the voice
of the public  that blundering British public
as represented in Crowminster. For the very
reason of the public's over stolid honesty, its
resounding faith in the sacredness of its
domestic institutions, and its hasty boisterous
impulses, it was liable to blunder. It had a
fine tableau presented for it to dwell upon in
the little family group which, preceded by a
female warder, entered the colet and filed into
the dock beside Jack.

Susie was there in the character of an
injured sufferer. She had never appeared to
better advantage than in that simple black
silk and cashmere frock, with the little bonnet
to match, the only point of colour about her
being the dove-coloured bow which formed
the sole trimming to the bonnet, and the
dove-coloured strings which tied it demurely

under her chin. She looked lovely, patient,
and pensive, a little flurried, but that was only
to be expected. She glanced up and caught
the eye of one of the lawyers who had dined
at her table in Newton the last time the Assize
was held at Crowminster, and made him a
hesitating, deprecating bow. It was done with
such a timid, disarming air, as if she would
have said, 'I do not know the etiquette of
this place  how should I ? Forgive me if I do
wrong. Perhaps a prisoner ought not to bow,
and my friends may not care to acknowledge
me under this dreadful cloud ; but I can only
act according to my own gently-bred, womanly
instincts.'

There were many persons present who had
not seen Mrs. Crabtree since the night of the
volunteer ball. They thought her even more
fascinating in the shade, drooping under the
cruel stigma attached to her, than she had
been in the light, in her season of triumph.

There was not much to be said for Lambert

Crabtree's looks. He appeared big, red, and
goggle-eyed as ever  confident and hectoring
as before. There was not even much to be
said for the character of the bankrupt banker.
His ways of doing business and of living
had never, at the outset, recommended themselves
to men of integrity. His sudden breakup,
with its ruin to hundreds of his fellow-creatures,
following hard on a long course of
reckless expenditure, was only the biggest blot
in a generally spotted and tarnished reputation.
There was no other quality than that of
doggedness shown in the manner in which he
stalked after his wife. But when it was taken
into consideration that he was a beaten man
condemned to pay the penalty of his folly in
having made ducks and drakes of a handsome
inheritance ; still more, that he was there in
the prisoner's dock, in a public court, of his
own choice  in fact, it was by favour that he,
who was under no arrest and no accusation,
was permitted to occupy a chair on the other



side of that which had been granted to his
wife's weaknessthe British heart softened
and warmed to the man. He was there in
the fulfilment of his conjugal vows, though he
could have had little idea when he uttered
them where they would lead him, or what they
would exact from him.

There were some dissentient voices where
this theory was concerned. Th-ere were sceptics
where are there not sceptics ?  who alleged
that Lambert Crab tree was not in the court of
his own accord and to back his wife  at least
not entirely so. These scorners had it that the
Crown authorities had given Mr. Lambert
Crabtree a quiet hint that they could not dispense
with his company ; they might want his
presence before long. It was a mixture of
insolent braggadocio and cunning policy on his
part to put the best face on his compulsory
attendance in court, and make it appear that it
was in the interest of Mrs. Crabtree. As for
the prosecution, the lawyers suffered him to

give what colour he liked to the proceedings,
and did not choose to show their cards before
the time, while Mrs. Crabtree's counsel of course
turned the incident to her advantage.

But the main body of the audience was not
of this mind. The British public has its vein
of sentiment, genuine enough, if somewhat
stereotyped and sugary. Lambert Crabtree
was there as a proof of this trust in his wife,
who had her brother on her other side, but that
was not sufficient  he was her fellow-prisoner.
It was for her husband, a free, unassailed man,
to lend her his countenance still, to support his
wife and the mother of his children, if he had
a grain of affection for her or a spark of faith
in her left. The man could not be a thoroughpaced
bad fellow who fully confessed the obligation
; and to judge by the manner in which
Susie leant her light weight on her husband's
broad shoulder, and glanced up with her
starry eyes in his red face, the tie between the
couple must be of the tenderest kind.

The spectacle moved many a susceptible,
worthy heart. There was iu truth no great
need lor what Bennet in her bitterness told
herself was the sole element wanting to overcome
the common sense of a gushing and
guile multitude, in the addition of one of
the pledges ' of Lambert and Susie Crabtree's
wedded love ' to make the tableau complete.
After all, perhaps the presence of poor Molly
and Piers, with their ungainly resemblance to
their father, and their tiresome unruliness, was
better in fancy than in fact.

The jury were sworn. The prisoners pleaded
not guilty. The Crown prosecutor opened the
case in a speech distinguished by its brevity
and moderation. Evidence was led of the
state in which Mr. Parsons and the junior
clerks had found the bank when they opened it
on the 20th of last June. The main-door of
the bank and the door of communication
between it and the Bank House were locked as
usual, and presented their ordinary appearance ;

VOL. III. L

SO did the managing partners' and clerks' desks.
But on going to the safe it was found open,
every separate lock had been unfastened and
remained with the keys in them or lying as
they had been thrown down and left on the
floor. On further examination it was discovered
that a private desk of Mr. Lambert
Crabtree's had also been opened and stood with
the key in the lock. It was in this desk he
had been in the habit of keeping the various
keys of the safe. He had not been accustomed
to distribute them among several responsible;
clerks, according to the practice of many
bankers. Mr. Parsons had a key, which had
not been out of his possession, to the desk that
usually contained the keys of the safe. The
key found in the desk was either Mr. Lambert
Crabtree's, or one similar to it.

The safe was not empty. It had the
amount of gold entered in the bank books, and
a quantity of the Crabtree Bank notes. But
there had been taken from it a sum of 7000Z. in

Bank of England notes, which Mr. Parsons
deposed to have seen in its place the day before.
The sum was above the average amount kept
by a country bank which issued its own notes,
but Mr. Lambert Crabtree was careful to provide
against contingencies.

Mr. Parsons was asked whether there was
not a particular parcel of bonds belonging to a
client of the bank's which had been kept among
papers of a similar description in a compartment
of the safe.

At the mere mention of the bonds, 'a close
observer, posted up in the evidence as Bennet
was, believed she detected an alarmed flicker of
Lambert Crabtree's heavy eyelids and an impatient
rustle of Susie's dress, while Jack sat
wholly unmoved.

Mr. Parsons, in answer to questions, declared
that he was aware of the existence of
the Mexican 3 per Cents, and the Peruvian
Bonds, and that they had been lodged in the
safe. But he had not thought of them or

L 2

missed them on the morning of the robbery.
When his attention was called to them he was
prepared to swear that to the best of his belief
the bonds must have been withdrawn from the
safe some time before. It was not necessary
that he should receive any communication with
regard to their withdrawal, and he had not
received any. But he had been told by Mr.
Lambert Crabtree to make a fresh hist of documents
of the kind in the possession of the bank
about three months previous to the robbery,
and it was his opinion that these Mexican and
Peruvian bonds were not then in the safe. He
would swear they were there six months before,
when he had gone over them in helping to makeup
a statement of his yearly accounts for Major
Coplestone, the owner of the bonds.

Mr. Parsons' disclosure with regard to the
bonds excited some surprise in the court. His
opinion was extracted from him not without
difficulty  for he was a diffident, painfully-conscientious,
elderly man  but no cross-questioning

caused him to contradict himself on any-material
point. While this witness was under
examination, Lambert Crabtree's eyelids fell
farther, and he was guilty of the slightest
possible shuffle of his feet, which was masked
by a second baffled irritable movement from
Susie.

The police gave evidence of having been
called to the bank at the instance of the banker's
wife, in the absence of her husband. She went
with them and showed them the safe and Mr.
Lambert Crabtree's desk, which they found in
the condition described by the clerks. There
were no signs of violence within the bank or
the Bank House, and externally none on the
street side.

Mrs. Lambert Crabtree had volunteered a
statement, which the head officer took down.
Then followed the story with which Susie had
made everybody she had come across familiar.
She had been awakened by unwonted and suspicious
noises. She had risen in terror, ard

stole out to the corridor into which her bedroom
opened, when her fright and delicate
health had got the better of her, and she had
not been conscious of what was happening fora
time. On her recovery, as she found all was
still she had crept back to her room and bed,
and slept till her usual hour of rising next
morning.

In addition, Mrs. Lambert Crabtree had
requested the police to accompany her to the
garden. She had pointed out to them that the
garden door was still locked and bolted, but
that there was a ladder leaning against the
lowest portion of the wall dividing the garden
from that of the Eev. Edmund Ward  the
vicar of the parish, whose garden door was
often not bolted at night even during the fruit
season. This piece of carelessness did a great
deal to neutralise the precautions taken with
regard to the outer wall of the Bank House
garden. This had been purposely heightened
for the security of the bank.

Mrs. Lambert Crabtree had also called the
police's attention to the circumstance that the
front windows of the Bank House, if one supposed
negligence on the part of the servants as
to shutters and bass, could be entered from
without. She had farther reminded the guardians
of the public, whom she had done her
best to help in the discharge of their duty, that
the Bank House had been recently in the hands
of house painters, who, in the course of their
work, had been all over the premises.

This part of the evidence, apart from its
being shaped into questions and answers, was
only got in jerky fragments, in consequence of
the line pursued by Mrs. Lambert Crabtree's
counsel, who tried hard to stop every second
sentence as ' hearsay,' ' not admissible,' ' a
breach of precedent,' &c., &c.

Susie, with all her blandness, was not grateful
to her lawyer for his fidelity to her cause.
She looked provoked and bored when she was
thus not allowed to claim, even by proxy, the

Court's sympathy in return for her courage, her
sufferings, her seeking to put the police on the
scent.

Susie grew very pale, however, and gave a
startled, scared gasp. She ceased to rest on
her husband ; she sat bolt upright and listened
With tingling ears as the imperturbable police
officer went on with his evidence. He had
examined the ladder, which was a very light
one  light enough for a woman to lift to the
spot on which it was planted. The spot was a
garden-bed, newly dug and raked over, on
which rain had fallen the previous night. The
ends of the ladder merely rested on the earth,
whereas if so much as a child's foot had pressed
the rungs, the ends must have sunk half-an-inch
in the soil, in the state in which it lay.

Thomas Wilkes, the gardener, was called
to corroborate the policeman's testimony. He
looked anywhere rather than at his mistress,
when he said that the bed on which the ladder
had been resting was one he had prepared for

young ' plants.' The ladder was the same he
had used the previous afternoon for thinning
the peaches on the end wall He had put
the ladder in the garden tool-house when he
had done work the evening before that of the
robbery, and he swore he had locked the door
and taken away the key. He had only reopened
the door the following morning before
breakfast, when he returned to. his work finding
both the tool-house door and the garden
door locked as usual. When he left for breakfast
he had not locked the door, as it was
not locked during the day. On his return
immediately after breakfast, he had been too
busy seeking to frighten the sparrows from the
peas to notice that the ladder was removed ;
in fact, he had not gone near the tool-house.
He had come back before nine, and he had
remarked Mrs. Crabtree leaving the garden
and running up the flight of steps which led
from the garden to the house. He remembered
the incident because it had made an impression

Oil him at the time. It was not her custom to
be in the garden so early, and it had occurred
to him she might have gone to look at some
fuchsias she had wished taken into her 
which he had not been able to attend
to the day before. A little later he had left
off work in order to go into the town to attend
a sale of ironmongery, at which he expected
to get some garden tools at reduced prices.
Before starting he had locked the garden door
on account of the new paint, though it was not
customary to keep the door locked during the
day, and left it in the condition in which it
was found by the police.

In the course of Thomas Wilkes's examination
Mrs. Lambert Crabtree recovered her
composure. She did not flinch more than any
woman unaccustomed to hear herself referred
to in public, and constrained to listen to
an unfavourable implication attached to her
actions, might be excused for doing. On the
contrary, she smiled faintly, and gave a slight

shake of her Read, as of one who would say
how little even respectable, old servants are
to be relied on ! How their rank imaginations
run aWay with the foolish, ignorant dreamers,
and they talk themselves into the belief of the
most improbable scenes which never occurred ;
especially if these scenes point to some grave
offence on the part of the poor masters and
mistresses.

The servants of the Bank House were
called in turn. Most of them gave their
evidence with uneasy earnestness, much as the
bank clerks had given theirs, under the daunting
sense of the burden of suspicion which
rested alike on clerks and servants, till the
robbery was brought home to the real culprit.

Eoger, the man, had slept out of the house
in his rooms above the stables, and had very
little to say, except in sundry small details
which confirmed the narrative of his fellow-servants.


The women had slept in their rooms at the

top of the house, and had heard nothing during
the night. They had been first aroused by
the arrival of a washerwoman who was accustomed
to come on each Wednesday morning
as early as between four and five o'clock to
assist the laundress. She was in the habit of
ringing the hall-door bell, because Eoger took
away the key of the area door that he might
let in his boy to scour the knives before he
went to school, the family not being astir on
other mornings much sooner than eight o'clock.
On the morning when the bank robbery was
discovered the servants had been sleeping
soundly. They had been kept late out of bea
the night before by work connected with the
volunteer ball, over which Mrs. Crabtree had
presided. They had not heard the ringing of
the washerwoman, until she had tried flinging
up a handful of gravel, which had hit the
window of one of the maids' rooms. The
maid who descended to let in the applicant
had been put about by finding that the key

of the hall-door was not on the nail where it
usually hung. She had sought for it in vain,
and had summoned her fellow-servants to help
her in the search without effect. In the end
she and another maid-servant owned to having
admitted the washerwoman by the window of
the laundry, which was on the ground-floor.
But they solemnly swore, as did an older and
more confidential servant, that to their knowledge
this window and every other window in
the house had been closed and the shutters
fastened over night, and that after the admission
of the washerwoman the window was again
shut, with the shutters bolted, and was only
reopened late in the morning.

Ann Smith, the washerwoman, was in
Newton Infirmary labouring under congestion
of the lungs, and could not appear in court ;
but she had been able to make a declaration
which corresponded in every important particular
with the statement of the servants.

The housemaid gave evidence that Mr.

John Prior had slept in the walnut-wood bedroom
for two nights  having arrived late on
the evening before the volunteer ball, and
staying till the morning after it, which was
also the morning after the bank robbery.
During the interval he had scarcely quitted
the house. He had not attended the ball, and
on the following morning he had left so early
that he had gone without his breakfast. He
had come into the dining-room before the
servant was done cleaning it, and had given
her a couple of half-crowns and a verbal
message to her mistress, to be delivered when
Mrs. Crab tree got up, that he was gone to
Oxford. Sarah Roberts had offered to prepare
breakfast for him, but he had declined to wait
for it. He had seemed restless and eager to
set out. He was just gone when Mrs. Crabtree
came into the room  much before her ordinary
time  and expressed surprise that her brother
had left so early, but added that he had no
doubt expected her to sleep late on the morning

after a ball. Three hours later, after the
robbery at the bank had been discovered and
the police were in the house, the same girl
went to ' do ' the room in which Mr. John
Prior lead slept. When she was moving the
dressing-glass in order to dust it, she found
beneath the stand, as if it had been thrust in
there and forgotten, the missing key of the
hall door and another key which she did not
know so well  but she was told  no, she must
not repeat anything she had been told. She
took the keys to a fellow-servant, and finally
they were given up to the police.

An officer of the force spoke to receiving
the keys from the servants, and proved that the
one key was that of the hall-door, and the
other the key of the door of communication
between the bank and the Bank House.

At the announcement of the keys found
pushed out of sight in the room that Jack
Prior had occupied, which produced a manifest
sensation in the court, Bennet Gray half rose

to her feet regardless of all around her, and
bent forward to look at Jack with a last piteous
appeal.

But he would not meet her eye, his face
was set more desperately than her own, with
a hopeless obduracy which seemed the only
feeling that was left in him.

Miss Hopkins was plucking at Bennet's
sleeve. ' Did I not tell you he had done it ?
The hardened young scoundrel, he has not his
ugly face for nothing. Poor dear Mrs. Lambert
has sacrificed herself to conceal his guilt in
vain. See, see ! We must get to her,' went
on Miss Hopkins excitedly. *We must tear
our way through if necessary. No judge can
have the heart to prevent us. Can't you tell
she's going to faint, the tender-hearted soul ! '

And Susie did look ghastly for a second,
and smelt nervously at a scent-bottle, while
the full odium of the crime fell on Jack.

But Bennet clutched at Miss Hopkins's
mantle and held her down, addressing her ina

manner which must have struck the elderly
partisan as shockingly unfeeling. ' Sit still,
Miss Hopkins. She will not faint.'

Neither did Susie faint. She pulled herself
together with steel-like tenacity, as she had
done before. She went out for luncheon when
she was allowed, in company with her husband
and Jack, and their body guard of turnkey and
warder, after the example of the judges and
lawyers and those of the audience who could
vacate their seats with any chance of being
able to resume them.

Susie came back delicately refreshed  at
least she could listen with quiet attention, and
without a sign of self-consciousness, when
several members of the police were brought
back to describe the recovery of the Bank of
England notes which had been taken from the
safe. At the suggestion of the London detectives,
the police had instituted a strict search
over the Bank House and adjoining premises.
VOL. III. M

In the course of that night and the following
morning the men found one roll of the missing
notes in the water-butt, and another stitched
into the mattress of Mrs. Lambert Crabtree's
bed.

The last piece of information made a greater
impression than any that had gone before it,
but Susie heard it proclaimed without doing
more than open wide her great dark eyes and
close firmly her small red mouth. Jack started,
and turned and gazed at her as if to demand
if it were all over with her and his self-destruction
was useless. Lambert Crabtree's
red face waxed purple, until one could fancy
his teeth chattering with cold. Susie, the
fragile, clinging creature, torn with conflicting
emotion, was, nevertheless, when she chose to
summon up her courage, the most indomitable
spirit of the three. She did not so much as
wince when the witness swore to finding silk
in Mrs. Crabtree's work-basket in her room
that matched exactly the silk with which

the rip in the seam of the mattress had been
re-sewed.

The third roll and last of the notes had
been picked up in the street, where it might
have been thrown from one of the drawing-room
windows of the Bank House. The little
packet had been secured by an early and lucky
wayfarer. His luck, however, went no farther
than the necessity of carrying the treasure,
within twenty-four hours, to the police station,
in a panic, lest the fifty-pound notes should be
discovered in the possession of the finder, and
he should be taken up as accessory to the bank
robbery before he could explain how he came
by the compromising money.

The Court's working day closed at this
stage of the proceedings, with the case for the
prosecution not completed, and with agitating
rumours circulating freely. It was said that
there was still more fatal evidence behind to
be brought forward at the last. The desperate
motive that could alone account for so daring

M 2

and reckless a crime would be supplied, with
proof given which would seriously implicate
another person who had till now been at
liberty.

Common rumour, surely, was scarcely
wanted to crush hope in the hearts of the
prisoners and their friends. Guilty or innocent,
their case looked nearly as bad as it could be.
If that fine lady and her brother get off, they
will have rubbed shoulders with the hulks,'
was the dictum of an old judge accustomed to
use out-of-date forms of speech, and by no
means distinguished for prophesying smooth
things.

Bennet was to return to Eedcot by herself.
The holding in abeyance of her real relations
with the Priors, on which she had been bent,
afforded her no apology, even in the eyes of
Miss Hopkins, for trying to stay over the night
in Crowminster and seeking to obtain an interview
with Jack. Besides, Bennet had promised
to carry the news to Eedcot.

Mat Crabtree could not go back with
Bennet. He was remaining with Miss Hopkins
in the Assize town on the plea of being ready
if he were needed. He saw Bennet off, after
charging her with the most hopeful messages
he could manufacture for John Prior. Mat
wrung her hand and looked into her downcast
face with his own so careworn, it was with
difficulty she could realise that it was the
cheery scholar and squire of Hay bridge who
was speaking to her.

To say that I am sorry for you, Miss Gray,
is superfluous, almost impertinently so, but you
know it, and I have something to ask of you.
Will you tell Jane that if I cannot save both
her brother and sister I will make a last fight
for Jack? Good Lord! the lad must be
rescued, even if the choice should lie between
him and Lambert,' Mat Crabtree exclaimed
sternly.

Then Bennet knew that Mat Crabtree was

a righteous man  that though his own name,
his own flesh and blood, were to be sacrificed,
if it rested with him to make or withhold the
sacrifice he would make it for truth and justice's
sake.

CHAPTEE XIX.
bennet's declaration.

At Eedcot the dreary summer day wore heavily
away. The servants moved stealthily and
spoke in whispers, a form of respect which
served as a useful check on their violent excitement.
The children crept about, daunted by
the nameless oppression. Ally tried hard to
get at the bottom of the something wrong.
She succeeded at last, through the most zealous
scandal-monger among the servants who had
the heart to seek to break Miss Ally's proud
spirit, and rout her saucy airs by the thunderclap
of a tale which overwhelmed even a child.
It is your uncle and your aunt, my pretty
dear, as is being tried this blessed day for

breaking open Crab tree's Bank at Newton.'
No, not for high treason or highway robbery,
Miss Ally. What do put such nonsense into
the child's head? And they ain't going to
be beheaded, or hanged, or even sent beyond
the seas ; for, you see, they're gentlefolks, and
there's one law for the rich and another for the
poor  the better for the rich. Miss Ally. So
you needn't go for to sob and cry and bring me
into trouble after you've plagued me with
questions the whole of this here morning. The
worst that can happen is that your uncle and
aunt may be locked up a goodish while, so
that you mayn't see them again till you're
a big lady ; but you'll be gone to your own
papa in India by that time, so you needn't
take on so.'

Even Tommy slunk about with his tail
between his legs. Or he would sometimes put
up his shaggy foresaw on his old mistress's
knee to attract her notice. Then he would
hive his mounted plume of a tail a beseeching

little wag, and raise his hoary, topsy head 
the eyes invisible, but the tip of his pink
tongue propelled with a quiver, in his ardent
desire to lick her hands and face, so to assure
her of his heartfelt sympathy if she would but
let him.

For the most part, John Prior shut himself
up with his gnawing anxiety and sore humiliation,
or wandered out aimlessly, keeping close
to the house that he might avoid any encounter,
even with his servants, which he could help.
Latterly it had seemed as if he were seeking
to walk his troubles down, for he was on his
feet and abroad twelve hours out of the twenty-four.
His wife, delicate as she was, underwent
the fatigue with him. She had taken to
volunteering her companionship as she had
volunteered it in the early days of their
married life, and, though he had not invited,
neither had he refused the association. It
might be, as she trusted, that he took a dumb
solace from her silent sympathy.

But to-day he rejected all companionship,
even from his fellow-sufferers, as he paced up
and down the avenue or in and out of the
shrubbery, past the disused barn and mill.
They had been converted into picturesque
objects  by dint of Time's tooth and such
convenient accessories as ivy and bats, but
the buildings had never wanted a certain air of
abandonment and forlornness in the happiest
circumstances. It was the same with the
forsaken, overgrown quarry, in which he
could not linger for a moment to-day. It was
full of voices for him, children's chatter ; the
echo of a gun with a boy's shout of delight ;
Jack's tones altogether altered  low and upbraiding
; Susie's, lying in every shrill cadence
whether she mocked or lamented  how did it
come that his daughter, her mother's daughter,
was a har ? Lambert Crab tree's jeering,
taunting accents ; the murmur of a crowd ; the
blatant pleading of an advocate, the solemn
utterance of a judge delivering sentence.

When these torturing sounds filled his ears
and fretted his soul to distraction, it was a
small matter that the Ladslove meadows lay
in profound tranquillity, his secret buried in
their bosom, under the slanting rays of the
sinking sun.

Mrs. Prior and Jane kept together, as most
women will in such straits. They were faintly
soothed by yielding to the gregarious impulse
which came out in Jane when she was tried,
as it might have done in the most frivolous
of the sisterhood.

The mother and daughter were generally
in the drawing-room, whose out-of-date gilded
and glassy splendour had been got up by a
Prior of Eedcot in anticipation of his being
named master of the foxhounds for the county.
The faded harshness now distinguished a
scene in which the sickness of hope deferred
was not for the attainment or loss of a trivial
ambition, but in the dread earnest and hard
reality of waiting for a verdict in the unutterable

humiliation of a criminal trial. It did
not even imply the ghastly dignity of a murder,
merely the coarse vulgarity and gross stupidity
of a theft. Sometimes Mrs. Prior went softly
away to her own room, and Jane knew that
the simple old-fashioned mother had gone to
pray for her children in jeopardy, though,
perhaps, hardly in such deadly peril as they
had passed through when she knew nothing
of it. The daughter, wise in ancient and
modern philosophy, knew nothing better to do
than to slip from her chair, bow her head,
cover her face, and follow her mother's example.


In truth, save for that refuge to which
One had recourse in His agony, tiU He could
arise and do the will of His Father  but for
that ' Our Father ' He taught His brethren,
the piteous figure drawn by the reverent old
artist, the grand winged woman ' Melancholy,'
crouched down hopeless among the most magnificent
discoveries of science and the noblest

sallies of intellect, must represent the creed
of the world now and for evermore.

Sometimes Mrs. Prior would take up her
quilt and begin to sew at it mechanically.

Then Jane would rise restlessly, stand
before her mother, and put out imperious
hands to take the work away. ' How can
you, mother ? How will you bear to look at
that embroidery again P ' she would say, with
a wondering shudder.

Mrs. Prior would let the work fall in
deference to her daughter's objections, and yet
would look up at her with a gently reproachful
reminder. ' How can I ? ' she would echo ;
*how shall I bear to look again at the work
I have been busy about so long, after I have
taken it into my hands to-day ? My dear, I
think I can, because God made me and it, and
does all things well, and will show me what I
cannot understand, one day, if I wait. I knew
a good man who, when dying young, said to
the wife whom he dearly loved, who was

breaking her heart over their early earthly
separation, " I can believe the time will come
when we shall count this day happy." '

At another time Jane could do no more
than pluck at her mother's gown as she, the
grown woman, had done when she was a little
child, and, 'with no language save a cry,'
utter that last appeal for help, ' Mother !
mother ! ' which sounded, alas, so useless today.


But the mother could have told how.
pathetically sweet to her this return to her
for aid was. She responded to it promptly
and patiently, not asking for help herself, not
caring though her need  which might well
have been reckoned the greatest  was forgotten.
She was comforted by the mere act of spending
herself for her children, as she would have
spent herself for her husband. ' Yes, my
darling, T am here. It will not be long till
we hear more. Think of your poor father,
and bear up for his sake,' and she fondly

Stroked the head leaning against her, for
it was her little Janie come back to her
again.

'But think of it,' persisted Jane. 'Jack
and Susie tried as thieves.'

We must submit. It is God's will,' said
Mrs. Prior with pale, loyal lips.

Mother,' whispered Jane almost inaudibly,
can they be guilty ? You know how Susie
would have her own way. You know how she
was persuaded from her earliest days that
everything and everybody belonged to her in a
fashion, to serve her purpose ; how she was
morally blind to their independent rights,
whenever hers and theirs clashed.'

Mrs. Prior could not restrain a groan. ' But
she was a wife and mother, Jane,' she protested
desperately, as if the argument was well-nigh
irresistible. ' She must have known that such
a crime, though it might have been a temporary
service, would in the end be a fatal injury to
Lambert Crabtree  the cruellest wrong to

their children, as well as a breach of the laws
both of God and man.'

And Jack,' went on Jane, not following the
course of her mother's reasoning. ' He was fond
of Susie. She used to lead him a good deal.
He was apt to look at things in a thoughtless,
boyish light, as so much sport. She may have
played upon him to regard the matter as something
of a joke. She might convince him, and
be convinced herself, poor, wretched Susie !
that Lambert Crabtree could and would replace
the money without loss of time. She may have
told Jack it was only a kid of lark which had
so much good in it that it would enable her
husband to tide over a money difficulty. Then,
after Jack and she had hoaxed the authorities,
as they often played mischievous tricks here
long ago, and raised a hue and cry about
nothing, there would be another hue and cry
when the bank-notes turned up just where they
had disappeared in the safe, for Jack and she
would manage to put the paper back  no fear,

and the masquerading burglars would have a
laugh in their sleeves.'

No, never, Jane,' said Mrs. Prior with determination.
' Your brother is not a baby or a
fool. You have not done him justice. He has
long outgrown such follies. To tamper with
either public or private property which was
none of his, perhaps to bring innocent people
under suspicion and disgrace, could never have
been Jack's doing.'

It is hard upon Mat Crabtree,' said Jane,
with a long heavy sigh, after a pause. ' His
honourable name is dragged through the mire.
The bank which his grandfather founded and
his father did so much for, is irretrievably
ruined  a calamity that will be talked of for
half a century as " the failure of Crabtree's
Bank." So will the consequent bight on the
neighbourhood, even without the horrid addition
of the bank robbery at the hands of Mrs.
Lambert Crabtree and her brother. Mat Crab-tree
may well rue the day that our families

VOL. III. X

became connected. He will have little cause
to think kindly of us in the future.'

Mat Crabtree is a good man and will judge
fairly,' answered Mrs. Prior. Then a Httle
flicker of a smile played for a second about
her mouth. ' Of course that fancy about him
and Miss Gray was an absurd mistake. He
was in her confidence and knew of her engagement
to Jack almost from the first. The last
sign of his giving us "up was his turning back
when he was here yesterday, and claiming my
ear to tell me, as if I required to be told !
'' Take care of Jane  don't let her worry too
much over this idiotic trial." '

Jane said no more of Mat Crabtree's desertion
of Eedcot. A blush as wavering as her
mother's smile stole for an instant the wanness
from her face.

The dusk was beginning to fall on the poor
family, at last all huddled about the darkening
drawing-room window, which commanded the
carriage drive. John Prior was in the central

a nil chair, his wife was seated a Httle behind
him. She had one fine, thin hand on the back
of his chair, and he permitted the hand to lie
there, though he could not have been unconscious
of its presence, seeing that more than
once he rested his own gaunt hand for an
instant on the other. Jane was opposite, declining
to sit, her young limbs braced till they
were like iron under the necessity of standing
by the hour, where she could see and hear the
farthest.

These were by no means the only watchers.
There were loiterers along the road, some of
them colliers from Kershaw in their upper-world
fustians. There was a party of people
in the lodge, and the house servants were
gathered about the lower doors and windows
more or less openly. For there was not wanting
a rough notion that if ' Miss Susie that was '
and Mr. Jack ' got off,' there should be a welcome
home, containing at least an element of
triumph and rejoicing. These rash anticipators

N 2

were not so silent that the eager clack of their
tongues did not strike painfully at intervals on
the quiet trio in the drawing-room.

The window was open, everybody agreeing
that the evening was warm ; but the true
explanation was, that even if darkness set in
the tramp of the horse's feet would still be
heard coming up the avenue. All hope had
long been relinquished that the trial would
prove a mere form and be quashed at an early
stage. It must have been dragging on through
the long hours that seemed a very ife-time to
the family at Eedcot. The question was,
What were they waiting for? Had the end
come on the first day ? Could what appeared
the interminable delay be bringing back Susie
and Jack, released, if not vindicated, to their
friends ?

Before it was too late to distinguish a
carriage, there was a little half stifled cry,
There she is ! ' as first the regular beat of
a horse's feet broke upon the stillness, and

then the Eedcot phaeton with its solitary
occupant came in sight, approaching nearer
and nearer. No Susie, no Jack, not even Mat
Crabtree ; only she, bringing the news as she
had promised. The father, and mother, and
sister sat spell-bound. They could not call
out ; they could only look at each other with
protesting eyes. That strange paralysis which
often attends on the chief crisis in a life had
befallen the Priors. They saw and heard the
phaeton stop, and Bennet Gray aught. They
knew she was running the gauntlet of the
servants' inquiring eyes, even of their irretrievable
tongues, as she must have run
similar gauntlets more than once on the
road. The breathless listeners heard the foot
on the stairs, but no one ran out to meet
and greet Bennet, and charge her to tell how
the trial had gone.

She came in bare-headed and bare-handed.
She had pulled off her gloves and taken off*
her hat as she mounted the stairs in her hurry.

Her brown hair was crushed and disordered
by the long pressure of her hat, her face was
flushed. She looked younger than they had
ever seen her  quite girlish  as she returned
thus solitary and unsupported from her expedition.
She walked past Jane and John Prior 
who had started to his feet, straight to Mrs.
Prior, with whom Miss Gray had held none but
the most perfunctory intercourse for a number
of weeks, took the elder woman in her arms
and kissed her. Then they all knew it had
gone ill with Jack and Susie.

Mrs. Prior did not resist, neither did she
return the embrace. She said, with dry lips,
He is found guilty ? '

Oh, no ! it is not so bad as that,' said
Bennet, coming to herself and proceeding to
tell them the whole truth before she delivered
Mat Crabtree's messages. She sat down
among them, and would not listen to any
word of rest or refreshment. She did not
want it ; she had more to say. She spoke

in a solemn resolute way, as of one who
had to make a confession like that made on
a death-bed. ' If it come to the worst, I'll
wait tiU his sentence is fulfilled, and thq first
day he is free I will marry the man who sought
me when I was a poor governess. I was not
playing at teaching then  I was in sober, sometimes
sad enough earnest, working for my bread,
alone in the world.'

Where was it ? ' asked a voice. ' How did
Jack come to know you ? '

It was in Berkshire. He was visiting
there  in the very family where they made
me feel neither a guest nor a friend, but that
did not matter to him.'

And it was there Mat Crabtree saw you ? '
said Jane.

Yes. The meeting made an impression
upon him, because the news had just come
that I had succeeded unexpectedly to the
fortune of the great chancery lawyer, my
father's cousin. People talked of it  called

me " the fortunate Miss Gray," ' the speaker's
lip quivered, ' and I daresay pointed me out to
strangers. But Jack was gone before then ;
he knew nothing of the change in my fortunes.
I had tried him, too. We have all been hard
on Jack  all, except his mother here, who has
not looked at me since she knew I deceived
her, and she was right.'

Hush ! hush ! child,' said Mrs. Prior falteringly.
' Say no more, since Jack loves you 
and you love him  I believe that now.'

Yes, but wait till you hear more. I
refused to engage myself to him while I was
still poor. I had to think and act for myself 
I had learned to do it. I distrusted his strength
and constancy, I distrusted his friends and
their influence over him. He was among bad
companions -bad, I mean, for him  idle, 
men of the world. I said if he
would have me marry him he must break off
from old habits and associates, and the result
was his voyage to Australia. He went thereto

see if we could go out as settlers, even
though he were to break with Eedcot  do you
hear that ? But he would not have lost sight
of his mother. He had hardly been gone
when Josh Gray, who had been kind to
my father, while he had taken no notice of
his family after his death, died in his turn,
and I was next of kin

But did you not vn*ite to Jack ? ' asked two
of her listeners simultaneously.

I had written in order that he might hear
from me on landing, and I could not write
again till he sent me his address, for he was to
go up the country without loss of time and try
if he could find an opening. In the meantime
Jane wrote to the head of an old school of mine
in search of a governess for Ally and her
brothers, so that the application came round tome.
I was of age. I was my own mistress ;
nobody had any right to control me. I longed
to see what you were all like without your
knowing what I was to Jack. I was tempted

to make an experiment, and to judge for myself
with regard to Jack Prior's family and his
relations to them. It was silly and wrong,
though I never meant to harm any of you 
I meant only to do you good. All the same
shaking her head and discussing her past actions
with grave impartiality, 'I had no right to
impose on you.'

'Could you not have confided in us from
the beginning . ' urged Mrs. Prior in self-defence.


What ! proposed to bribe you to receive
and Hke me ; resolved to come alone to you
with the tale before you had heard of our
engagement, or he had heard of my fortune 
no, I could not have done that. I did write from
Eedcot after I heard from Jack, but he missed
the letter. He never knew what windfall had
come to us  till  till he was ready to renounce
it all. But now,' hurrying on, to save herself
from breaking down, ' I have judged  I know
everything I hope you will forgive my deception

and be friends with me at last, for I have
made up my mind. I will never forsake Jack
Prior in his adversity. If it is any consolation
to you to hear, you do hear that a woman who
loves him, and is rich in this world's goods,
will stand by him through everything, and save
him if it be in human power to save him.'

Oh, Bennet, his Bennet, God for ever bless
you ! It is I who have been blind in my wicked
jealousy ; it is you who must forgive me,' cried
the poor mother, falling upon the girl's neck to
weep there.

But John Prior rose feebly and protested,
as he had protested before, only more tenderly.
It cannot be, my dear, you are young, you are
carried away by your feelings at this moment ;
you do not know what you are saying or what
you are undertaking. When you are older and
wiser you will understand better. Neither
Jack nor anyone else could consent to such a
terrible sacrifice.'

But she would have her way. ' You and

he must and will consent.' She reminded him
of an Englishman of rank and repute who
had fallen from his high estate, fallen by his
own dishonest deed, and of an English lady in
his circle, his contemporary in rank and in age
which was not that of impulsive youth, but
of sober, reasonable middle age  to whom he
had been engaged in marriage. She had heard
when his sentence was passed, she knew that he
had crossed the seas as a convict ; and the
moment she could follow she had gone to him
and kept her engagement by becoming his wife.
The thing was no secret, and, though England
was a nation of shopkeepers, it had not cried
shame on the woman for her tender forgiveness
and generous fidelity. Not that the cases were
parallel, Bennet had only quoted this as an
extreme example. She had nothing to forgive.
Jack was innocent. Everyone who knew him,
and many who did not know him, had sufficient
fairness and judgment to recognise that.
It was clear that Bennet was in an overwrought

state, with which nobody could very
well cope. At last Mrs. Prior, who had
begun to wait upon her, got her to eat something
and to go to her room, on the plea that
if she did not take food and try to sleep she
would not be able to return to Crowminster
and be in the court next day. Even then, as
they passed the door of the nursery, and heard
Ally still chattering, Miss Grey would go in to
kiss the children and bid them good-night.
And when sleepy Sam mumbled ' Good-night,
Miss Gray,' she confided to the stupefied child
and his electrified nurse  her own eyes shining
like stars as she spoke, ' I am not going to be
Miss Gray always, Sam. I am going to be
Admit Bennet ; " won't you like that, my
boy?'

But you ain't our aunt,' objected Ally.
Whatever we may like, we have only Aunt
Jane and Aunt Susie, besides Aunt Wood,
whom you never saw. But, oh, do tell me,
Miss Gray, is Aunt Susie locked up with

Uncle Jack, and fed on bread and water ?
How can Uncle Jack let her ? It is naughty
of him.'

And you, too, Ally ! ' said Bennet,
bitterly.

'Pretty Auntie Susie ! ' cooed Sam, ' Molly
and Piers' mamma, who kisses them and gives
them sweets, and sends them out of her way.
Are you going to be Uke Aunt Susie ? '

Bennet turned away with a shudder.

In her own room, where Mrs. Prior still
followed her, Bennet broke down and sobbed
passionately. ' Oh ! dear Mrs. Prior,' she said
between her sobs, ' he is your Jack as well as
mine. You have known and understood him
since he was a baby. Do you believe he will
survive the shame and misery ? He may die
in the midst of it ; for if it come at all it will
last for long years. If we live to be together
again it cannot be until our unhappy youth is
past. I feel driven to wish that he had forfeited
his bail, fled and been outlawed, though I

scouted the suggestion when somebody made
it only this morning she said wistfully.

No,' denied Mrs. Prior staunchly, ' a true
man should act as Jack has acted.'

I used to have such horrid dreams of
storms and shipwrecks, after I sent him to
Australia,' said Bennet again. ' I knew I
should never be at peace till I had him back.
Yet I have lived well-nigh to own that it would
have been well for him and all who loved him
if he had been washed overboard some wild
dark night, and perished, while the world was
still bright to him, and his faith in God and
man unshaken.'

Mjcs. Prior bade the girl remember that
Jack had still something to look forward to
and live for even when life was hardest, though
he should be cut off from his family and Eed-
cot for many a day. And this was supposing
there were found a judge and jury who could
condemn an innocent man. As for time, it
was passing continually, moment by moment,

wearing away, whether in joy or sorrow, without
sign or perception on man's part, till time
itself should be no more by the decree of Him
with whom a thousand years were as one day.
And if we were poor creatures of a day, we
were all the more in His hands who not only
told the number of the stars, but bound up the
broken in heart. Mrs. Prior dried Bennet's
tears, and, in spite of all protest, undressed the
girl with Jack's mother's own hands, and kissed
and blessed her, for she had taken her daughter
to her heart in their extremity, and surely the
fulness of the reconciliation and the extent of
the adoption were thrice welcome to both,
even in the sorest hours of their lives. At
last, when she could minister no more to
Bennet or any other she loved, the mother
was at liberty to mourn for her young son,
her only son, in the depths of her heart.

CHAPTER X.

THE SECOND DAY OF THE TRIAL.

Bennet knew from previous information, before
she went to Crowminster the next day, what
the further theory of the prosecution would be.
The lawyers would seek to establish, and would
have considerable materials to their hand, that
the South American bonds belonging to Major
Coplestone which had not been recovered were
not taken along with the Bank of England
notes from the safe. They had been removed,
as Parsons held, some time before, with an
irresistible presumption that they had been
withdrawn for the purpose of money being
raised upon them by the person who took
them. He could represent himself as the agent
VOL. in.

for the owner, acting for him as the banker
had the power to act in the transaction. The
near prospect of the return of Major Coplestone
had rendered it absolutely necessary, in order
to prevent exposure, that the pledged bonds
should be redeemed at any cost. Other resources
having failed, the desperate step was
resorted to of the robbery of the bank, professedly
in the absence of the banker, by his
wife, backed by the active assistance or passive
connivance of her brother. Independent witnesses
would be called to show that when,
according to the statement of Mr. and Mrs.
Crabtree, he had left the volunteer ball, in
order to take the last train to London, and
ought to have been many miles from Newton,
he was seen, between three and four o'clock
on the morning of June 20  the morning of
the day when the robbery Was discovered 
waiting in the shadow of the trees overhanging
Mr. Lewis's garden wall, on the opposite side
of the way from the Bank House. Had the

theft been successfully carried out, and the
bank-notes conveyed to the accomplice without
by ' the woman ' or ' the man ' within, it
would have been quite possible for Lambert
Crabtree, if he had been in the streets of Newton
that morning, as was represented, to travel
by the earliest train to town, and, before the
robbery was known and the circulation of the
notes stopped, to pay in the money and recover
the bonds. As to the business men who might
hold the bonds in pledge, it was well known
there were shady firms that entered into such
doubtful transactions, and would not inquire
too closely either in reference to the bonds or
to the money. Even when suspicions were
roused, even when losses were incurred, such
gentlemen were generally silent for their own
sake, not to spoil their own little game. So
much was presumptive.

On the other hand, the conclusion was inevitable
that whoever were the depredators
they were stopped in their work, and scared



by the appearance of so humble an instrument
of detection as the washerwoman on the scene.
The fact that Ann Smith came in the regular
course of her duty, and that her presence at so
early an hour was a weekly occurrence at the
Bank House, had been overlooked by one of
those simple stupid blunders that frequently
disarm, as if by the interposition of Providence,
the elaborate precautions of the most skilful
and daring of criminals. It was not pretended
that these were skilful burglars, but skilled or
not, they must have found themselves baffled
in the attempt, and called upon to come to an
immediate decision with regard to the disposal
of the bank-notes taken from the safe without
an opportunity to return them after the house
was awake and aroused. Accordingly, some
of the money was dropped into the water-butt,
some was stitched into the mattress of Mrs.
Crabtree's bed, and the rest was tossed from
the window into the street below, without
reaching the watcher on the other side of the

road, who had doubtless taken the alarm and
made off at the noise made by the washerwoman.


In like manner the keys of the hall door
and of the door of communication with the
bank, which had been secured by the persons
engaged in the robbery, could not be returned
to their accustomed places, and had been found
thrust under the stand of a looking-glass in a
bedroom in the Bank House. That bedroom
had been occupied over night and during the
previous night by Mr. John Prior, who had
vacated the room early on the following morning,
when he had not waited for breakfast,
before starting on a journey of several hours.
Yet he had been apparently at a loss how to
dispose of his time quite recently, since he had
loitered for two days and nights at his sister's
house without going to his home, which was
within a walk or a ride, after his return from
a protracted absence. This indifference might
or might not be explained by the fact that, as

it was well known, he was on bad terms with
his father, the squire of Eedcot. There had
been no plea of the young man's attendance at
the volunteer ball to account for his stay at
Newton. His going to the ball might have
implied his going home first. Certainly he
had not gone to the ball, and it had seemed
as if he did not care to be seen during his stay
at the Bank House.

Mrs. Crabtree had been as early a riser asher
brother on this particular morning, according
to the evidence of the housemaid and
gardener, though the practice was not in accordance
with her usual habits, and was not to
be looked for, as she had herself remarked, on
the day after a ball.

Bennet had learned all this argument honor
before it was to be delivered from the report
of Jack Prior's lawyer. She suspected that
there was an additional influence at work.
She felt that the course of the case the previous
day, and the particulars it had brought

to light, had revived in full the excitement of
the time of the robbery and the failure. It
had renewed all the animus against the Lambert
Crabtrees which had taken the place of
their popularity, and was virulent and widespread
in proportion to what had been the
strength and extent of the opposite feeling.
Bennet was sure that the assize town was ringing
with stories comparatively fresh there of
her extravagance and his irregularities and
vices. Among the husband and wife's old
admirers and worshippers there were doubtless
few indeed who at that moment did not
secretly blush for having been gulled by the
pair, and were not inclined to protest against
the tools ever having been really taken in or
capable of entertaining the least sentiment of
sincere regard for their victimisers. It was
with such a couple that Jack Prior must stand
or fall.

Bennet, in her comparative ignorance of
legal rules, had a haunting dread that Lambert

Crabtree might have been arrested in the
middle of the case, and might now sit with
Susie and Jack in the dock  not as a devoted
husband countenancing his aspersed wife, but
as a fellow-prisoner, the guiltiest of the three.
The dread was not confirmed by the note
which was handed to her from Mat Crabtree,
containing only the words ' nothing new,' or
by any knowledge which could be imparted by
Miss Hopkins, by whom Bennet again had a
seat.

But Lambert Crabtree did not come in
with his wife as he had come yesterday. She
entered alone, save for Jack and the officials,
and, while her brother's bearing was little
altered, the strange, shrunk, aged look, which
had been more than once before remarked in
Susie, had come over her again. The great
eyes were dilated as with fright and anguish 
like those of a creature at bay. There were
dark lines underneath the eyes. The rich
colour was altogether fled, and had left a

sallow olive in its place. Her very lips looked
bloodless and dry  the gliding, tripping walk
was exchanged for a stumbling half run as of a
hunted fugitive. Bennet glanced once towards
Susie, and could not bear to look twice. She
had not been five minutes in the box, when a
loud, regardless ' Oh, I say ! ' from Jack, as he
tried to reach his sister, and a quick movement
on the part of the experienced" female warder,
who caught the sinking figure in her arms,
showed that Susie had fainted outright.

Miss Hopkins, though she screamed, was
too much overpowered by her own feelings todo
more, far less to ' tear ' through the crowd,
as she had proposed, to the aid of her niece by
marriage. Happily there was no occasion.
Though deprived of the support of her husband,
Mrs. Lambert Crabtree's womanly weakness
was treated with every consideration.
Judges, jury, audience were ready to wait,
even to hang breathless on her recovery.

Indeed, Susie's fainting fit was one of those

extraordinary turning points, contrary ebbs of
the current, and strong reactions, which sway
and master popular emotion, and are not uninfluential
in directing the very course of law and
justice. It was something undreamt of and
marvellous to Bennet Gray to note the change
that came over the spirit of the scene, even
before the conviction grew and matured  not
that Lambert Crabtree was arrested, but that
overnight, without the knowledge of the authorities
and of his brother, the ex-banker had
quitted the town, and was hastening to quit
the country, never to return.

How it happened exactly Bennet could
never say. She was told that, even in the
most favourable circumstances, Lambert Crab-tree,
though he had not been accused either asa
principal or an accessory in the robbery, and
was at liberty both before and during the trial,
ought to have been under the surveillance of
the Crown lawyers. He should have been detained
by them till the end of the case in which

his wife was tried, which concerned inn so
nearly. Bennet was never sure whether there
had been culpable negligence or connivance
advisedly on the part of the prosecution ;
whether, as in more illustrious instances, there
had been a painful puzzle what was to be done
with the ' high class misdemeanour,' according
to Miss Hopkins's definition. Or there might
have been a vague, illogical, not strictly moral,
yet common-sense, idea that, as the Bank of
England notes had been recovered and Crab-tree's
Bank had ceased to exist, enough had
been done to vindicate the outraged majesty of
the law without pushing matters to the last extremity.
Such unacknowledged anomalies and
uncovenanted mercies ' are not absolutely unknown
even in countries with model Governments.
It was by a happy precaution providing
for such contingencies that not one of the
'gentlemen of the jury' was a shareholder,
or so much as a depositor, in the unfortunate
Crabtree's Bank, when the greatest victim of

Lambert Crabtree's dishonesty sat before them
with her fate to be weighed in Justice's scales.

For it was not to be believed that Mrs.
Lambert Crabtree, the pretty, delicate little
creature on whom one day in court had
worked such a grievous change, who was fainting
with the terror and disgrace of her position
before the eyes of the jury  could have robbed
the bank except at her husband's instigation.
Yet here was she left to pay the penalty. Her
deserted, miserable situation tugged more and
more at the hearts of men learned and men
unlearned in the law, who did not appear to
waste a thought on the possible betrayal and
self-abandonment of Jack Prior, sitting by his
sister, in his honest, manly ugliness, more
pathetic to those who could appreciate it than
Susie's beauty.

A quick sense of the turning of the scales
caused a gleam of hope to flash across Bennet's
mind. She was roused to hail fresh marvels.
The counsel for the prosecution was ending

this case with a nameless languor, against which
he was powerless to struggle. It was bred by
the vivid comprehension of a transfer of men's
sympathies, which were now ranged on the
opposite side.

Susie, restored to consciousness, was recognising
with a swiftness of intuition that had
genius in it, the transformation. She saw what
the opportunity was to which she must rise,
and how she must adapt herself to the new
standard presented to her. She was no longer
the innocent victim  she was the repentant
transgressor  a touching sacrifice so complete
that it was well-nigh heroic to a mistaken sense
of the obedience required from a wife. She
was no longer rendered calm and fearless by
her husband's presence. She was bathed in
tears. It could be plainly seen, since her
bonnet had been removed in her faintness,
that her silken hair was straying disregarded
and dishevelled about her weeping eyes, like
that of a Magdalene.

How could men fail to be moved to the
core of their hearts by such a spectacle ? How
could they resist the desperate inclination to do
something to redress the cruel wrong inflicted
by a brother man? How could they avoid
taking into account every jot and tittle in her
favour  her social position, her former popularity,
her winsome personal attractions, her
present forlornness, each lapse and flaw in the
chain of proof? All were to be eagerly remembered,
seized, and acted upon by every
man who had a heart in his bosom.

The counsel for the defence marshalled his
witnesses and arranged his points with renewed
hope and spirit. He indicated delicately, but
forcibly, the respectable standing and high
character of the Crabtree and Prior families,
with the great improbability that their ranks
would supply common criminals. He had no
difficulty in bringing witnesses to show that
the Bank House had lately been full of workmen,
the cupidity of any one of whom might

have been excited, and those workmen had not
all been Newton men, well known in the
place ; some of them had been strangers,
brought down from London to execute the
more delicate parts of the commission.

Stress was laid on the fact that the night
or morning of the robbery was the night of
the volunteer ball, and the morning after it
when the town, and especially the railway
station, were in a state of confusion, and little
attention would be paid to arrivals and departures.
It was hardly worth calling witnesses
to show it could only be by an extraordinary
strain put on the circumstance that a purely
domestic incident so simple and natural as the
cursory visit of a brother to his sister on the
return of the gentleman from a voyage to
Australia, should be brought prominently forward
and dwelt upon as it had been by the
counsel's learned friend. There was, however,
one direct alleviation which ouoht to be immediately
contradicted, though Mr. John Prior's

counsel would dispose of it effectually. So far
from Mr. John Prior being on bad terms with
his father and family, Susie's counsel could
furnish abundant testimony to the contrary,
even after the unfounded charge had been
made against the young man.

The maidservant who had admitted Jack
to the Bank House on the night of his arrival
in England was recalled to prove that his visit
had been wholly unexpected by her mistress.
No preparations had been made for it. Mrs.
Lambert Crabtree was taken by surprise when
she found her brother in her drawing-room.

There was a general feeling, increasing insignificance
and weight, that the less that was
said of Mr. Lambert Crabtree the better for
him and everybody connected with him. But
his wife's counsel condescended to produce
contradictory evidence of Newtonian who,
according to their own account, had been
parading the streets of their native town early
on the morning succeeding the volunteer ball.

They had seen no mysterious man lurking in
the shade of the trees, opposite the Bank House,
hours after Mr. Lambert Crab tree had quitted
the drill hall. What had been said to the
opposite effect was ridiculously slight and
transparently delusive.

Yet neither was the fact lost sight of that
even if the banker had been found implicated
in the robbery, it did not follow that his wife
was guilty. Nobody had seen Mrs. Crabtree
break open the bank  one had only to look
at her to be struck with the preposterousness
of the accusation. True, some of the Bank of
England notes taken from the safe were found
stitched in the mattress of her bed, and the
silk with which they were stitched corresponded
with silk found in her work-basket.
But that was at the best presumptive evidence.
Mrs. Lambert Crabtree had, with the perfect
candour of an innocent woman, volunteered
the statement that she was absent from her
room, having been startled by the real thieves

VOL. III. p

during a portion of the night. Why might not
the depredators have entered the bedroom
during the lady's absence and made use of the
silk from her work-basket which stood in the
adjoining room ? And after all, this was ignoring
an obvious explanation of a suspicious coincidence
 namely, the similarity of much of
the silk in ordinary use.

After the first bold flight of imagination, it
it was a much lower and tamer excursion of
fancy to cite a more reasonable hypothesis in
Mrs. Lambert Crabtree's favour. A considerable
number of hours  a whole half day  had
intervened, during which she had acted as
most ladies in the trying circumstances would
have done, she had gone with her children, in
the absence of her husband, from the unpleasantness
of the scene of the robbery, to
her father's house at Eedcot. It was not till
then, after ample time had been given for
many persons to have entered and quitted
Mrs. Crabtree's bedroom unobserved, that at

the instance of the detectives from London the
local police had made a rigorous search for the
missing money, and recovered it in the manner
described.

On the missing bonds, of which so much
had been made in the theory of a sufficient
motive for the crime, the counsel became
almost supercilious. He declined to deal with
what he protested was irrelevant matter, and
would say nothing with regard to a line of
argument which he considered from first to
last supposititious. It was acknowledged by the
prosecution that it was uncertain whether the
bonds were or were not in the bank safe at
the time of the robbery. Unless it could be
shown that they were in the safe, which, of
course, would have demolished the theory of
a motive for the felony, he submitted that they
ought not to have been brought into the
case.

The counsel had been prepared to play a
trump card by calling a witness sure top

2

produce a sensation in the court. Had lie
been summoned the first day, he would have
served to complete the family tableau, which
had certainly occurred to Bennet Gray's mind,
as an effective representation to set before the
British public. But after the master of the
ceremonies was conscious that the tide of public
opinion had turned, and was running strongly
for his client, he was so confident of getting
her off that he risked relinquishing the advantage
he could command. For reasons which
could be easily understood and appreciated,
he refrained from calling the child Piers Crab-tree
to give evidence to save his mother. The
lawyer contented himself with reserving the
child's figure for his speech alone. It was
admitted that one of Mrs. Crabtree's children
had slept in her room on the night of the
robbery. Now, though the sleep of childhood
was proverbially sound, was it conceivable
that a sane woman, projecting a burglary,
would have voluntarily provoked the additional

peril caused by the presence of a child ? Was
there a father or a mother present who could
believe that, of her own choice, even the most
desperate and degraded of women would
commit a crime, and secrete the fruits of her
dishonesty, close to the little bed on which
her innocent, unconscious child lay sleeping ?

Mrs. Lambert Crabtree's fine eyes swimming
in tears protested emphatically against the unnatural
inference.

But, indeed, cleverly-selected witnesses examined
in a masterly manner, forensic eloquence,
the Judge's summing up with a
leaning to mercy's side, were so much valuable
stock-in-trade thrown away to induce what
was in the end a foregone conclusion. It was
a singular item in the combination of causes
which worked for Susie that even the hardhearted
people who professed to see through
a millstone, who, if they had believed in anybody,
would have been inclined to believe
rather in Jack than in his sister, who called

Lambert Crabtree's wife ' a devilish handsome
Httle humbug,' were still unanimous on the
advisability of not bringing her to book and
of letting her off, were it only for her pluck
and finished acting.

Jack Prior's counsel's opinion coincided with
that of his professional brother, since Jack
would stand or fall with his sister. It was idle
to waste the time of the Court with a greater
demonstration on young Prior's part than what
was necessary in re-establishing his character asa
well-liked, m the main trustworthy, fellow, not
practically disowned by his father, and in reiterating
the circumstances of his position and
education, with the incredibility of his employing
them in the abetting of a palpably
violent and desperate crime. There remained
nothing farther to do than to remind the jury
that the sole evidence against John Prior,
younger, of Eedcot, consisted of the small
items that he happened to have slept at the
Bank House  his sister's house  the night

before and the night or morning of the robbery,
that he had left betimes the same morning,
and that the missing keys of the hall door and
the door of communication with the bank,
supposed to have been secured by the burglars,
were found under the frame of the looking-glass
in his bedroom, where other hands than his
might have put them. The jury brought in a
unanimous verdict of ' Not Guilty,' and the
court received it with loud applause, which
could not be suppressed.

Again the Court House and its crowd
seemed to rock and sway round Bennet Gray,
but she was still able to meet and return one
eager, half-incredulous look of relief and thankfulness
from Jack as he left the dock with very
much the same air that he had worn when he
entered it, though people were now pressing
round him to congratulate him. Miss Hopkins
was not among them  she did not like her
verdict to be upset. She continued to reflect
grudgingly in the distance that she was still

sure the young scamp, who had not his unprepossessing
face for nothing, had something todo
with the robbery. His poor dear sister had
known of his complicity, and been punished
for the knowledge. He ought not to get off
so easily, but it was the way with men  they
always favoured each other ; they never failed
to have the best of it. Miss Hopkins's temper
was thrown off its balance by Jack's unwarrantable
release.

In spite of Miss Hopkins's hostile judgment,
Jack retired, holding his head as high as his
stature would admit of, while his nostrils were
inflated and contracted spasmodically at intervals
an attitude and an action which said, ' I am
where I ought never to have been, and, having
been brought here, I don't think I shall ever
forget it.'

But as for Susie  the true heroine of the
occasion  she withdrew in the midst of her
throng of satellites, in a sort of subdued
triumph. When one came to think over

everything, it was slightly incongruous in the
wife of a bankrupt banker, a deserter from his
post, a fugitive who dared not meet the charges
that might be brought against him.

Susie still maintained the character of that
sweetest of popular heroines  a confiding, ill-used
woman, betrayed by her very tenderness,
and by the conflicting duties which she had owed
to an unworthy husband on the one hand and
to society and the laws of her country on the
other  Susie could not be said to recognise a
tribunal higher than that of human authority.
She promptly elected, without waiting for an
invitation, to go with her brother and Miss
Gray to Eedcot. Mrs. Lambert Crabtree would
not repair, even for a few minutes, to the Bank
House, Newton  not to fetch away the children
she had insisted on keeping with her. She
became all at once and for the time indifferent
to their company, telling Mat Crabtree that he
might either take them with him to Haybridge,
where she declined to accompany him, or send

them over to her at Eedcot, as he thought fit.
She mortified Miss Hopkins by refusing alike
her condolence and her congratulations civilly
it was very difficult for Susie to be uncivil 
but with decision.

All the way to Eedcot Susie sought to
usurp the attention of her companions, bewailing
her maiden days and pleading the pathetic
palliations of such misbehaviour as she had
been betrayed into. ' Who would have thought
it ? ' she asked wistfully. ' I was such a happy,
envied girl  to come to what I have just barely
escaped from. Oh ! Miss Gray, no girl is so
well off and so much thought of as to be
entirely beyond the reach of danger. She
should be so careful, so guarded in her choice !
What can a poor wife do . You cannot tell
her feelings. I am not going to blame my
poor, unhappy husband  he was always good
to me, in one sense, but, oh ! what can a wife
and mother do . '

Bennet did not answer, she did not even
hear the question. She was content to sit in
the dusk of another summer evening with
her hand clasped in Jack Prior's, and let
tears of infinite gratitude course down her
cheeks, because his deliverance from a miserable
fate was compassed, because they were
not to be separated till death  nay, please
God, death itself should not long sunder
them.

When the party arrived at Eedcot Susie
seemed to awake to some deeper consciousness
and to a shade of genuine feeling. She shrank
from meeting her father and Jane. She shook
herself free from the others, forbidding them
with a certain peevish impatience to follow her.
I don't want you. I cannot bear any more
to-night. How can you expect it? I only
want mam-ma. Nobody's to come near me
except mam-ma.'

LIi-s. Prior responded to the imperious,

selfish call. She only stayed to kiss her son,
to see his father grasp his hand, then went to
shut herself up for the night with her prodigal,
to listen sadly to her hollow confidences, to
comply patiently with her fantastic caprices.

CHAPTEE XL

JACK PRIOR DOES SOMETHING TO REDEEM HIS
REPUTATION.

The summer was barely over. The filberts
in Eedcot quarry were still green to the very
fringes of their husks  only the earlier varieties
of the apples in the orchard were yellow. The
berries in the shrubbery had as yet little
chance against the flowers in the garden. The
purple of the barberry, the rich black of the
elder, the coral red of the mountain ash were
still nodding to the golden sunflowers, the
African marigolds  brown and yellow like
bees' coats, the flame colour of the gladioli, the
great white heads of the giant phlox. The
later roses  paler for the most part, and fainter
in fragrance contrasted with their earlier, more

splendidly endowed sisters  had never been in
greater profusion.

But many strange experiences had come
and gone before Jack Prior and Bennet Gray
were at last walking together, unchallenged and
unforbidden, as they had not always dared to
picture themselves, among the old-fashioned
labyrinths of the Eedcot grounds, and by the
silent mill and the empty barn, which had been
as good as Robinson Crusoe's island to Jack
when he was a boy. Of all things the man
and woman were quarrelling  at least, so it
sounded.

I will not have you speak so to me, Jack.
I will not listen to another word. As if I could
have done less ! as if it had not been my pride
and consolation to do it ! as if I and all I have
were not yours ! It is horrid to have you so
much as thanking me.'

I think I know in a way what you mean,'
said Jack, with a short laugh to hide another
feeling. ' It is like the governor's being so

elaborately civil to me. If he would only
go at my failures and deficiencies as he used todo,
and not act as if he were sorry, and seeking
to make up for what has happened, it would bea
comfort. I can't stand his consulting me
about the pits, and wishing me to look into the
leases, and seeking to make me feel like his son
and heir. I could find it in my heart to ask
him to let me alone.'

No, you mustn't,' said Bennet quickly.
Think what pleasure it gives your mother to
see you and your father as son and father
should be ; how the recognition of your claims,
to the unsaying of his own words, binds him to
her more closely than when they were bride
and bridegroom.'

'I am not worthy of it,' said Jack, with a
sorrowful shrug ; ' though I have had some
hard lines dealt to me. If I had been what I
ought they would never have touched me. I
know that, and other people know it as welland
we'll none of us get over it. I wish I had

remained in Australia. You may say what you
like in your kindness and generosity  it is a
case of give a dog an ill name and hang him.
The only question is whether you are to be
condemned with the dog that has been justly
regarded as an idle ne'er-do-well till he has
been branded with an accusation of theft

My dear Jack, you proposed to take me
for better for worse, at least I thought so  I
hope so, and I did the same by you. As we
cannot undo it, there is no more to be said.
As for this wretched, absurdly false mistake
and its consequences, assuredly you will live
them down. You do not mean that you are
such a faithless pessimist as to tell me that
there can be a scandal or slander which a brave
and honest man cannot live down . '

Before he could answer her they were
interrupted. A messenger from the house
coming up the avenue had caught sight of
Jack's figure, and in the man's haste and
excitement turned aside to address the young

squire. It was a collier from Kershaw, in his
pit dress, to the lamp burning like a red spark
in his cap in the broad day. The miner was
going to his shift, and not returning from it, for
his face, hands, and arms  colourless like the
flowers, leaves, and stalks of a plant grown ina
dark cellar  were clean and not grimy. It
was a lank young face  long at all times with
premature personal care, longer than usual with
public trouble  the dire distress of a community.
It was the face of Joe Jones, and the
banking eyes were fixed upon Jack Prior with
an imperative, agonised summons. ' Master
Jack, there's been an explosion in the pits.'

An explosion ! Good heavens ! ' cried
Jack, instinctively freeing his arm gently but
firmly from Bennet's clasp, as she stood
arrested and trembling by his side. ' Where,
Joe, where ? Has my father been told ? '

In t' Young Squire's workings, as was
named the day you was born. It was where
I took you down, and you made me come

VOL. III. Q

bound, if there ever came another explosion
like that in '63, I would fetch you straight.
There have come another explosion, and I'm
here. It is like Master Willet has sent word
to squire, or will send soon, but 'tis no
business o' mine.' 

Oh, Joe, are there men in the workings?'
Bennet found voice to ask. 'Will it be
possible to save them ? ' And she thought of
the women belonging to these men, whose
lots might be so different from what she
had held hers to be only this morning.

Nine lads, schoolmistress, as near as we
could reckon in the hurry. You must haste
ye, Master Jack, for there be nine sure and
certain, living or dead, as had gone down nota
quarter of an hour before, for the next shift.
There be nine among the gas and the fire 
for mebbe the pit is on fire ; there is smoke
enow, and the roadway stopped for a wager.
I should have been among them, but my little
wench, as you snowed, schoolmistress '  Joe

wandered into a personal digression  ' has
chin cough bad, and I were up with her in the
night, and had to go round by the Long Eow
to send Joan Short to her. I heard the roar
of the explosion between the Eow and the
pit-mouth. I had heard tell last night, Master
Jack, that you were safe at Eedcot again, as
we all snowed you would be, and I ha' kep'
my word, running the most" of the road,
though my wind is none so good, from Kern
You nun run too, Master Jack 
you're a rare good hand at the running', as
none can beat you at cricket  and it's for nine
men's lives you're running', do you hear, if
you're to go down in the room o' BaiHfF as is
gone to Droitwich to attend his darter's funeral.
You have the right before Master Willet's
son ; and I'm set on being in the batch, for I
would not have the lads think as were in the
same shift wi' me that I ha' done nowt for
them.'

No, Joe, that would never do,' said Jack

Q 2

incoherently. 'Eun on to the house and see
that my father is told at once. He will order
what is necessary to be sent and come over
himself immediately. I'm off, and you'll
follow me ; and if you can catch me up we'll
go down together. Bennet,' he turned to her
for an instant, with all his heart in his voice,
you weill not seek to stop me ? You hear him ?
Nine lives ; and if I can help to save one,
nothing else signifies much.'

Yes, Jack, go,' said Bennet, with trembling
lips ; and he did not wait to hear her speak
further faltering words, of soldiers' wives who
send their husbands into the battle to take
lives, and should she keep him from saving
them ? Only he would let her follow him as
far as she could. She could not fight foul air
and fire and falling rocks ; but she could be
near, as she had been in the court, to be the
first to hear the best or the worst, to watch
with those who were in similar trouble, though
their sun had not gone down at noon.

Already Jack was plying the active legs
which had won him such credit at cricket
and football, forgetting all the tribulation and
disgrace of these last doleful weeks, feeling a
man again in the front rank of his fellows.

John Prior, who was not without experience
in such a terrible casualty as may occur any
day in a coalfield, was ready to start on the
instant with all the appliances' that could be
wanted. When he heard that his son had gone
before him fresh colour came into his cheek,
and he reared his grey head and walked more
erect and firmly than he had walked for many
a day. He did not object to being accompanied
by Bennet and Jane, particularly as Mrs. Prior,
still shut up with Susie, had not heard what
had happened, and it was judged best to spare
her the knowledge till the danger was over, the
speakers said softly, with bated breath.

The bleak, blighted, ash-strewn moor was
as Bennet had pictured it would look on the
occasion of one of the periodical tragedies of

the mine. The machinery had been standing
in Useless stillness and dumb protest after the
accident, but had been hastily repaired to
admit of relays of men going down to learn
the extent of the injury, and to seek to rescue
the sufferers. A detachment had descended
the pit under Mr. Willet before Jack Prior
could arrive. He had headed another company
after he had been overtaken by Joe Jones,
which had followed the first down the shaft
before Mr. Prior and the girls came on the
ground.

Bennet and Jane were far from the only
women present. Youth and age were alike represented.
The old-fashioned little lass who had
been accustomed to carry ' father's meals ' to
the pit-mouth with one hand and to lug about a
baby on the other arm, was there ; so was the
feeble grandmother, who rarely stirred from
the warmest seat in the chimney corner, unless
to go to church on the finest Sunday of the
year. Widow Maxey had instinctively yoked

her venerable horse into her cart, resumed her
carter's whip, and was seated in her place of
office once more. There might be other loads
than coals to cast that day, and who so fit to
drive them as she, who had been about
Kershaw Colliery for a good score and a half
of years  who had done service on the
memorable day in '63 ? Every woman who
was not absolutely bed-ridden had run out ;
whether her men folk were in the pit or out
of it, she knew they would soon be in the
thick of the fray at the ominous sound. They
all knew it by report, if not by personal
experience, and had trodden with wild, feeble
feet, jostling each other, the familiar paths
from the Vows to the particular pit. The first
frantic rush had died out with the smoke and
dust of the catastrophe. But straggling parties
of people from neighbouring villages and
towns continued to hurry, across the moor,
brought by interest and curiosity to the spot.
It was understood by those who had

sufficient knowledge to form an opinion from
the signs above ground that the disaster was
not so bad as that of '63. The damage done
to the machinery had not been great. It
could be repaired in a temporary manner
without loss of time. Some parts of the roof
had fallen, but, it was hoped, not where the
men in the pit had been at work, and not to
such an extent as to osier an insuperable barrier
to reaching them in time. The great dread,
after the kindling of the fire-damp, was the
letting loose of the choke-damp and the closing
up of the air-passages.

There was no loud lamentation, doing
despite to the blue sky that lies behind even
the smokes pall which shrouds ' a black
country,' to the dense air, still mellow in its
moorland sharpness with the recent breath
of summer. There was a hush of quivering
expectation, women banding together with
linked arms and bowed heads, men exchanging
meaning looks and muttered words after

peering keenly into the yawning hole in which
every hope and fear were for the moment
centred.

The eagerly waited for signal from below
to pull up the cage broke the effort at endurance
; but in answer to the many heart-throbs
as of one heart, and the sudden push forward
of the throng of people, the police who had
arrived and the pit-head men "kept order, and
caused all but those actually employed to
stand back. The women especially, with
Bennet and Jane among them, were forced
to give the pit a wide berth, for none of those
above ground knew what might meet their
hungry eyes when the first explorers returned
with their freight and their tale.

The busy group in front closed in round
the pit and obscured the view to those at a
little distance, so that they could not catch a
glimpse of who or what had returned to the
upper world. Then the tidings were circulated
that it was Mr. Willet and a collier who had

been down with him, and that they brought up
between them one of the men who had been in
the pit at the time of the accident. The pit
was not on fire, but the fall of the roof had
been greater than was at first supposed, and
the air was bad. The searchers had got far
enough to extricate this man, who had been
working nearest the roadway, and were going
on with their efforts to rescue the other men.
But it had been necessary for Mr. Willet, who
had become affected by the foul air to which
he had been exposed for some time, to come
up, while young Mr. Prior had taken his
place.

The news was as good as all save the
most sanguine had anticipated. ' Good news,'
Bennet Gray kept repeating to Jane, unaware
that her eyes were glistening and her fingers
twitching like those of some of the women
who had husbands and sons in the living grave.
These women were entering into a shrill contention
as to which of their men worked

nearest the roadway. ' It were my master, I
tell you.' ' Ko, it were my lad Bill, I'm sure on
it ; I is,' were over-confident assertions. The
dispute was ended by the spectacle of the
rescued man staggering past. He was not too
badly hurt to prevent his walking with a little
assistance, but he was a sufficiently sorry sight,
ghastly in his dirt, and dabbled with the blood
flowing from a wound in his neck, tied up
roughly with his cotton handkerchief, which
turned him sick and giddy. He was still able
to call to his wife, struggling to get to him,
Ay, it's me, lass, leastways it's all that's left on
me.' No woman could dispute her claim any
longer, though half-a-dozen there would have
given the most precious things they possessed
to have had their men stand in her man's shoes.
Ay, it's Luke Cocks and no mistake. Poor
chap, it's like he's sorer floored than he lets on,
and her within sight and hearing. He'll not
get over a gash like flatten the day nor the
morn neither.'

Another interval as silent, as oppressive,
for there had been considerable re-assurance
in Mr. Willet's announcement and in Luke
Cocks' having been brought out alive and fit
to stand on his ' pins,' in the current phrase.
The re-assurance was damped, especially to
those unaccustomed to such scenes, by the
condition of the next victim recovered from
the mass of ruins and the stifling fumes rising
from old wastes and abandoned workings. He
was reduced to something carried past on a
shutter, vdth a sheet hastily thrown over it.
Bennet and Jane drew away, clenching their
hands in horror, while the other women strove
desperately to reach the bearers, to discover
who was their burden, and if it was all over
with him. The load was put down for fresh
inspection by a doctor, and was not immediately
taken up again. Some stir and commotion
followed among the waiting assistants, a brandy
flask was in the doctor's hands ; ' He ain't dead '
was shouted in a species of exultation. 'Doctor

says he be coming round, and may get over it.'
Bennet and 'Jane drew long gasping breaths,
and turned and kissed each other impulsively.
A few minutes afterwards one of their old
pupils at the club-room was so carried out of
himself as to hail them and give them the
information which concerned them. The hurt
man was Ben Ashe, and he would have been
clean gone if Noah King, that hauled him to
the pit-eye, had not treated him as 'gin he
were a drownded man,' after the directions in
the ladies' lectures.

Bennet thanked the lad gratefully for his
communication, but Jane broke into sobs.

Bennet recognised little Nancy Jones, as she
executed the long whoops of her cough in the
arms of a middle-aged woman, whose heart was
in the pit with her two nephews still unaccounted
for there. . Bennet, whose own heart was in
the pit, proposed to relieve the woman for a
space. And the ice which had been gathering
and settling in the girl's breast, like a heavy

weight at her heart, checking its flow of blood,
melted for an instant when ' the little wench '
responded to her former nurse's greeting.
'Your father is where Jack is,' Bennet whispered
to the unconscious child. ' They are
facing life and death together for their brothers.
That should make you and me good friends,
Nancy.'

'Da-da, da-da, la-dy, la-dy,' babbled the
child.

But Jack and Joe Jones were parted. Joe
had been overcome by the insidious after-damp,
and Jack had ordered him up to the
fresh air, refusing to return with him, though
the remaining seven men had been found huddled
together, all of them alive, and none so
seriously hurt as Ben Ashe. There was word
of a lad who had not been come upon. He had
not been reckoned among the older lads and
men, and formed the tenth life in the lot. Jack
and two of the volunteers in the work stayed
behind to make a last search for this boy.

But don't take on about young master,
schoolmistress,' said Joe, with his hie hips,
when he was so far better as to come to Bennet,
which he did straightway. He had wit to
read what was before his eyes, and was not
troubled by any ceremonious necessity for polite
fictions. 'I ha' got a mouthful of pure air,
and ray bellows is in working order again.
I'm going down right off  at once. It were I
led him into the dance, and God Almighty will
let me bring him back to you  not a hair of
his head the worser, for your goodness to the
motherless wench.'

After that Bennet wandered restlessly to
Mr. Prior, and stole one of her hands into his.
He wrung her hand, and continued to hold it,
saying nothing.

Joe was gone for not longer than ten more
terrible minutes before the signal vibrated
anew. The first cage that came up held Jack
with what was not black of the skin of his face
and hands as blue as Joe's lips had been, Joe,

and a flibbertigibbet of a boy, who looked the
least touched of anybody, for the very young
and the very old will breathe with comparative
impunity an atmosphere fatal to mature men.
And this young gentleman was only cowed by
various reflections. He had been in the pit out
of order. The underground bailiff, when he
returned from the funeral of his daughter, Mr.
Willet  nay, the squire himself  might all have
something to say to the youngster for his defiance
of regulations. Finally, if he did not get
one of the ' tidings ' to which he was well
accustomed from the authors of his being, who
had only within the last hour begun to guess
that their son was in a scrape as usual, he
would have richly deserved it.

When Jack's face, with a diabolic tint
added to its grotesque plainness, rose above the
fining of the pit, and it was seen that he had
brought with him the last waif of the explosion,
a cheer suddenly burst from the men around.

Bennet heard it, John Prior heard it, and

it sounded still more ravishingly sweet to them
than to him, whom still it soothed. It rung
with a far-away murmur of * well done,' in ears
yet humming with the drowsy influence of the
poisoned air of the pit, yet echoing with the
bald ' Not Guilty ' of the court.

As for Mrs. Prior, when the applause was
retailed to her, it seemed never to cease, but to
go on in a perpetual proud proclamation which
announced her to be the mother of a brave and
generous man.

During his watch by the pit-mouth, John
Prior had made every arrangement which a
considerate and humane coal-owner could accomplish
for the relief of the injured men, and
the assistance of the other colliers who would
be subjected to enforced idleness for several
weeks by the accident.

These arrangements had become known in
the interval, and, following on the heels of the
cheer for Jack, rose a cheer for the squire of
Kedcot and his lady, vvho had always been

VOL. III. II

good friends to the mining community at Kern
A still more expansive soul rounded off
the plaudits with the proposal of a cheer for
Miss and schoolmistress,' on which John Prior
made an abrupt amendment in the excitement
of the moment. ' Not schoolmistress, my menthe
future wife of the young squire, the future
mistress of Eedcot,' and puling off his hat heled
lustily the last ' hurrah ! '

CHAPTER XII.

MOLLY AND PIERS CEABTREE's Guardians
BY NATURE AND BY ASSUMPTION.

When Susie descended from the fastness in
which she had detained her mother, not a reproachful
word was said to her. She was not
likely to take to herself a change not alluded
to which had been made in the house, ' Indeed,'
she exclaimed nonchalantly, when she found
that the picture of the arch-traitor had been
removed from the staircase. It was sufficiently
shown otherwise that silence and oblivion were
to faU on the episode of the bank robbery ; and
it was devoutly to be desired that Susie's plaintive
Jeremiad on her wasted youth and beauty,
and on the trials of a too devoted wife, might
come to an end as speedily as possible. Perhaps,

R 2

as it belonged to Susie's character to utter this
jeremiad, the treatment was trying. Certainly
it did not elicit any overpowering expression of
gratitude. Susie was equally irresponsive to
the knowledge that there was still a home for
her and her children at Eedcot ; that neither
her father in his repugnance, no, nor Jack,
though he too shrank unconquerably from her
all the more that she gave no sign of shrinking
from him  would turn her from their doors
till another refuge was found for her. Susie
took it as her inalienable right that she
should be in the home she had outraged and
threatened to render desolate  not only in the
most comfortable chair, which she quickly appropriated,
but in the place of honour, which
she was ready audaciously to fill. In the same
manner she would unhesitatingly have called
upon her mother to resume the chief of her
motherly cares for her  Susie, to be the slave
of her whims if she chose. But John Prior
interfered and peremptorily forbade the impudent

extortion, however gracefully made. Mrs.
Prior, on lier part, though she had wonderful
patience and forbearance, ay, and tears of pity,
which were like drops of blood wrung from her
heart, where her erring daughter was concerned,
rose up after the first few days, in what was
not so much self-defence as an honest maintenance
of what was right and fit, a strong sense
of what was due to her husband and her remaining
children.

Susie did not scruple to be mildly indignant,
and to complain piteously to all who would
listen to her, that even mam-ma had gone
against her.

Then Mrs. Lambert Crabtree condescended
to make overtures on terms of equality to the
late Eedcot governess, about whom the cock-and-bull
story that she was an heiress in disguise
had actually turned out to be true. In
addition, she had been eminently successful in
her aims, though she was not to be the mistress
of Haybridge. Miss Gray had the credit of

{iLibduing pap-pa with her bow and spear, though
when it came to that, not many elderly gentlemen
were wholly inaccessible to the charms of
heiresses  open or disguised  as wives for their
sons and heirs ! Pap-pa had chosen to announce,
in the most gushing manner, at a gathering of
the colliers  of all people, after an explosion of
all things, that Miss Gray was to be the future
mistress of Eedcot. Of course, when pap-pa had
gone so far as to say that in public, even though
it was a public of colliers, the family could only
submit  nothing more was to be done. But
Bennet, though she could not trample on a
creature who was down, was inflexibly civil ; no
more.

From Jane there was nothing to be had
save cold magnanimity. No amount of ,
however ingeniously prosecuted,
would render the large-minded, large-hearted
woman jealous of Jack and his coming wife.

So many of Susie's vocations where gone
already, it was still harder for her to discern

that, in spite of her former social sway, and
notwithstanding the eat with which, as it
seemed to her, her trial had ended, the county
neighbours of the Crabtrees and Priors manifestly
fought shy of her  a wife with a cloud
upon her, living apart from a disreputable husband,
a pensioner on the bounty of her father.
Poor old John Prior ! he had been sorely tried,
though this windfall of a moneyed wife, a
charming, handsome, monstrously clever young
lady, had turned up in the most romantic
manner, in time to redeem the scapegrace Jack's
chances. But as for Susie Crabtree, however
cruelly she had been treated, however much
she was to be felt for and lamented, with her
memory tenderly cherished, as in her day the
loveliest, brightest, most pleasant spoken of
young matrons unequally yoked to a brute
of a husband  she was still a woman who
had only escaped by the skin of her teeth from
conviction in a public trial for a bank robbery.
She was no fit associate for the men's

wives and daughters, however captivating and
entertaining she might still be in casual encounters
with the men themselves. Susie was
to have no more good times of pre-eminence
in popularity, unless she was prepared to angle
for them on another and very different moral
level, which could not be while she stayed at
Bedcot.

Susie began to droop, and to afford indications
of becoming an interesting invalid, and so
further burdening her relatives and trading on
the sympathies of the world.

Mat Crab tree strove manfully to accommodate
himself to the checks put on his former
liberality in farming enterprise and scholarly
tastes by the mortgages with which Haybridge
was now burdened. If they were to be wiped
out in his day, they could only be got rid of by
all-round retrenchment and strict economy.
Nevertheless he proposed again, as he had
proposed at the beginning, to take his brother's
wife's children to stay for the present at Hay-bridge.

But Susie knew better than to imagine
that Haybridge under existing circumstances
could be preferable to Eedcot.

At this juncture letters came from Lambert
Crabtree, who had gone, from easily understood
reasons, to Sweden, where a former acquaintance
of his had settled and prospered. Lambert
had found an opening through this acquaintance,
and by Mat's consenting to stint himself,
in order to give his brother another start in
life. Lambert was as ready to brag as ever of
what were likely to be the profits of the new
concern, and of the progress he had already
made in winning the good graces of the leaders
of Upsala society. All at once Susie was seized
with an ardent longing to be with her husband.
A wife's place was by her husband's side whatever
his faults might have been, and she would
say this for her poor dear old Lamb, that he
had thought nothing too good for her, and
would have liked her to eat out of gold plate
and wear gold tissue if she had cared to do it.

He would be amazed and indignant to hear
how cavalierly she was treated now by her
own people among others, she was sorry to
say, though they might have felt for her if
anybody could feel. A true wife did not mind
sharing the reverses and hardships in her
husband's lot. Banishment, privation ! What
did she care for banishment and privation if
she could but be by her poor Lamb and prove
a comfort to him ? She supposed she would
not die of the cold of Scandinavia. If she did,
what did it signify when she was in the path
of duty  a wife's duty? The loss would be
Lamb's, for since their misfortunes nobody
wanted her at home.

It was pointed out to Mrs. Lambert Crab-tree
that she could not with prudence take her
children to Sweden till it was seen whether
their father would succeed and whether he
could provide a permanent home for her and
them.

Here she was quite amenable to reason. It

would be too great a risk and far too much
responsibility and fatigue for her to venture to
carry the darling babies abroad with her.
They at least would be safe enough with their
grand-parents and uncles and aunts  there
was no lack of relations. The children were
too young to be deeply wounded by the unkindness
which had cut her to the heart  and
she did not mean to say that, mam-ma and
Jane, not to say pap-pa and Jack and Mat, or
even Miss Gray, would be guilty of inhumanity
to their own near kindred in the shape of dear,
innocent, helpless children. To part from
Molly and Piers  ah ! it would be bitterly
hard  none save a mother knew how hard,
but a wife's duty came even before a mother's,
and she would give both of the babies for
Lamb.

As Lambert Crabtree acquiesced in his
wife's wish to join him, Susie, after shedding a
few becoming tears over the children, went
her way from Eedcot and England. No sooner

was she fairly gone than her family, in company
with the whole neighbourhood, were
keenly sensible what an incubus had been
lifted from their shoulders. Susie might repent;
it were hard to deny her that half-divine
capacity of sinners which is the hope of
humanity ; but it could scarcely have been
among the kindred whom she still in her heart
scorned with a light hardened scorn, upon
whom she would have continued to trade with
self-satisfied assurance.

Poor little Molly and Piers were left, and
were likely to be left, unless they could be
found of service to their parents, to the custody
of other, and, it was to be hoped, more disinterested
and trustworthy keepers.

Mat Crabtree, coming upon their Aunt Jane
with Piers in her lap and Molly at her knee,
listening to their lessons, and striving to be of
use to the unlucky wights, thought he had
never seen Jane Prior to greater advantage.
He longed not only to tell her so, but to share

her task and lighten it by sharing it, for were
not the boy and girl his nephew and niece as
well as hers, Crabtrees still more* than Priors ?
I must have the children to Haybridge, Jane,'
he said, as he sent them to play out of hearing.
There can be no question about that being
their proper home. They have more claim
upon me than upon anyone here, and I am
willing enough to acknowledge the claim. A
little lad and lass, growing up in the house of
a solitary man, should be a boon to him,
shouldn't they. Anyhow, your father and
mother ought not to be troubled with the
children any longer. The little Woods are
enough for a nursery of a previous generation.'
I don't think Molly and Piers bore my
father and mother, Mr. Crabtreee,' said Jane,
growing a shade paler, ' and I'm sure they do
not bore me. I seem to have learnt experience
with Ally and Sam and Tom, or Miss Gray
has opened my eyes on some points,' she went
on with a faint smile, ' for I get on better with

Molly and Piers, now that they are my particular
charge. I am really fond of them,' her
eyes filling with tears, which she hastily turned
her head aside to twinkle away. ' Indeed,
they are not at all bad children, though they
are rather slow and a little unruly. They are
affectionate, and I think,' she added, stammering,
and her face getting very red, ' I think they
are truthful and honest.'

I hope so,' he answered, with quick, grave
emphasis. ' I did not mean to condemn the
mites  tolerably big mites for their years, ain't
they ? Ah ! they take the size and, I daresay,
the slowness and unruliness from the Crabtree
side of the house, so that I am still more bound
to bear what I can of the burden Your father
and mother and you ought not to be left with
a house full of grandchildren. Your father
told me Jack was looking at Moor Park for
himself and Mrs. Jack. Is that settled ? '

No,' said Jane, with another little lurking
smile. 'On second thoughts the plan was

given up. They are to stay here. Nobody
liked to part my mother and Miss Gray 
Bennet least of all. You know they were
sworn allies from the first, and they have
renewed the old bond. Bennet is my mother's
right hand, and she is wanted to keep Jack
straight with my father. These two will not
drift far apart again, I trust ; but an interpreter
rather than a peace-maker is still needed between
them sometimes. My father has a great
respect for Bennet's opinion, and is inclined to
think more of Jack's when the two are in
unison.'

'All the more reason you should not be
cumbered with my nephew and niece, while I
dwell in solitary state at Hay bridge.'

Certainly, Mr. Crabtree, you are the best
entitled to the children.'

My dear Jane, you don't imagine that I
covet the monkeys on my own account,' protested
Mat Crabtree ruefully. *A fine life
they will lead me! I shall not have much

peace left me. I know they will miss you
dreadfully, and that all the good training you
have been giving them for the last month or
two will soon be lost.'

I daresay,' said Jane shyly, ' your housekeeper
will be able to manage Molly and
Piers.'

Not at all,' he said, shaking his head.
My housekeeper has given in her leave. That
state to which I have alluded has got too sorry
for her taste, latterly. Well, I don't blame
her. She has been a faithful servant, but she
does not like changes, naturally. She is getting
up in years, she has saved money, and she
wishes to join a sister who is about to start a
lodging-house at Bournemouth. It is all perfectly
fair and reasonable, though I may be put
about to begin with, getting used to new ways
and new servants.'

Then why don't you leave the children
where they are, at least in the meantime, if
that will be any relief to you ? ' urged Jane.

Because I think I see a better way if it
were not too inconsiderate, too one-sided and
full of effrontery.' He got up from his seat
opposite to her, and came and stood beside
her, looking down at her. ' I am no longer
young. I have lost sufficient money to keep
me pinched in my resources, though I believe
I can right myself if the time is granted to me.
There is no use in saying what I might have
done if all this trouble had not come upon us,
particularly as even without it th e Priors might
well have had enough of the Crabtrees.'

Jane was silent for a moment, and even
after she spoke with strong feeling she could
not look at him.

It might be put the other way  that the
Crabtrees have had enough of the Priors,' she
said in a low tone, her eyes cast down in mortification
and shame, even while she trembled
with a very different feeling.

No ; a thousand times no, so far as I am
concerned,' said Mat stoutly, taking her hand.

VOL. III. s

But do you mean to say, Janie, that you, with
your powers and opportunities, which are
Hkely to be greatly enlarged in the future,
would not grudge to devote yourself to a
middle-aged impoverished man and a couple
of children whom his brother's misdoings had
thrown upon you ? '

It was my sister's misdoing as well as your
brother's,' said Jane frankly, ' but apart from
that I would grudge nothing to the middle-aged
man. I would count it a joy and honour
to serve him

Ah ! that is kind,' he said, stooping and
kissing her as if he were unable to resist the
action. ' But it is because you are unpractical.
I suppose learned ladies are more and not less
unpractical than other women  in some senses
they can afford it better. But what will your
father and mother say ? '

I know both my father and mother and
Jack and Miss Gray and everybody I care for

everybody worth listening to  will say
neither they nor I can ever have enough of Mat
Crabtree.'

So Jane carried her learning to meet
and mingle with more learning at Hay-bridge,
and to develop into sounder, more
fruitful scholarship under her old critic's roof.
Molly and Piers found greater room and better
soil to afford them the necessary conditions for
straight and upward growth than they could
ever have commanded at the Bank House, in
spite of the fact that a little Mat Crabtree appeared
on the scene and deprived Piers of the
most distant prospect of succeeding to the old
acres. The event gave Piers, what was worth
far more to him, the elder brother's sense of a
half-fatherly right in care and tenderness for
the little chaps whom he had carried in his
arms as a baby, for whom Molly had learnt to
embroider wonderful small garments, and knit
dainty socks and gloves. The bigger cousins,

s 2

with an honourable, happy feeling of holding a
trust for Uncle Mat and Aunt Jane, watched
the smaller grow up through all the stages of
babyhood and schoolboy life, till he attained
their own level.

CHAPTEE XIII.

WHAT CAME OF THE Bore AT THE RATS' DITCH.

John Prior was standing in the Dutch clover-field
looking down at the Eats' Ditch. It had
undergone a considerable transformation since
the spring day when Lambert Crabtree had
found his father-in law apparently contemplating
the gambols of Tommy and Fly, as they
plunged and struggled after imaginary rats in
their happy hunting ground.

It was autumn  the second autumn  and
there was the usual October wealth of withering
sedges and bulrushes. Occasionally a single
tuft of the blue flower of the chicory contrasted
with a double row of the red berries of .
These again were but dull crimson

reflections of the purer scarlet of the big berries
of the bryony ; its leaves were already russet
and shrunken, festooning the hedges, and blending
inextricably with the long green garlands
and downy white seed of old-man's-beard.

There were greater alterations than those
made by the annual round of the seasons. The
borers had been here at last. They were not
at work, for they had done their task, but their
gear  windlass, ropes, rods  still stood or lay
about among the heaps of rubbish and the
trampled down, dug into sides of the ditch.

John Prior had a perfect right to stand
there. He was under no inducement to make
a feint of being drawn aside by his four-footed
companion. For Ladslove had been bought
with Bennet Prior's money, and was her property,
to be united with Eedcot as the inheritance
of John Prior's grandchildren.

It was by John Prior's orders, and under
his personal supervision, that the dream of his
life had been realised, and coal bored for on the

spot where he had been assured that the buried
diamonds lay waiting for their finder. Every
indication of the strata had been attended to,
every obligation fulfilled, and the result was 
nothing.

After all his proofs and convictions, his
sleepless dread, his sacrifices to the secret he
held, his late grasp on the coveted possession ;
by some bathing counter-operation of the
primeval forces which had been at work, some
mocking freak of Nature in her irony, expectation,
fear, remorse, the final attainment of
his goal had all proved groundless, needless,
and in vain. There was not an ounce of coal
under the earth by the Eats' Ditch any more
than in the other Ladslove meadows. It was
only yesterday that John Prior had been driven
to acquiesce in the fallacy of the belief which
had coloured the greater part of his life, and
moved the man to the centre of his being. He
stood and gazed blankly at the blank before
him as at the grave  the empty grave, for it

had never contained a body  of his visions, apprehensions,
and reviving hopes. It was as if
his loves and his hates had been alike wasted,
as if one were to awake in another world
and find that the chief desire and dread which
had shaped the life of the past had been a
mere chimera. As he stood and looked, the
soft autumn day, full of the pensiveness of
over-ripeness, the morhidezza dropping to
decay, which precedes the chill of the fall, he
was again interrupted, but it was by a gentler
intruder on his meditations this time. Instead
of Lambert Crabtree, swaggering on his vicious
bay ' Ossian,' Bennet Prior came quietly walking
along the field-path, followed by Tommy,
picking his steps gingerly, for there had been a
touch of hoar frost in the early morning, melted
by the midday sun, and Tommy had as great
an objection to wetting his paws unnecessarily
as a cat feels to wetting hers.

Bennet put her arm softly within the arm of
the man, who stood with his hands crossed

behind him, and was silent for a moment before
she began to speak with wistful persuasion.
They are all gone except me. Jack has got
his mother to let him drive her over with Mary
Burton to see Jane. He thought she  the
mother  would be the better for a drive. We
were too late up last night,' Bennet confessed,
with a look of happy content in place of penitence.
' It was all the fault of the new book
and the last group in the quilt.'

And why did you not go with the rest? ' he
inquired.

I ? ' a little nervously ; ' oh ! I stayed
behind because I wished to be with you, if
you would let me.'

Thanks, my dear,' he said, a little absently.
Have you anything you wish to say to me ? '

She stopped to take breath and to clasp his
arm more tightly. 'Jack is afraid you are
terribly disappointed, sir,' she began courageously
; ' and of course it is a surprise  a shock
I suppose I must say a great disappointment.

But there is another resource  to " dig deeper "
at Kershaw. Jack tells me, what no doubt you
know very well, that this is the colliers' motto.
He has got that bit of valuable information,
along with a great deal more of their experience,
since he took an active interest in the
pits. You have been pleased that he should do
so. You do not mind that he  that I should
be able to help you in other ways, as we are
glad and proud to do  that we should seek
to furnish the money necessary to put the pits
in better working order, when they will pay
back every farthing laid out on them ? '

They will pay back in time,' he said ;
there can be no mistake here. The coal is
known to be at a lower level, and fuel is not
likely to go out of fashion, unless there be
some extraordinary convulsion in the planetary
system, when naturally most fashions
will come to an end.' He finished with a
slight shrug of his shoulders. 'But what
about the purchase of Ladslove at a fancy

price, and all the fine plans based on it ? ' he
struck in presently, with a nervous twitch of
his long upper lip.

Why, there is not a word to be said
against the purchase,' she assured him with
cheerful confidence, opening her eyes wider
at the bare idea. ' The farm is a most desirable
addition to your property ; and are not
these nice fields good grazing land,' glancing
round admiringly on the rather sodden meadows.
' Jack says it would have been a
pity to convert them into a black country.
Besides, it would have spoilt the view from
Eedcot Spinney ; though, as we are colliers,
I daresay we ought to be above, or beneath,
caring for views. Then, without the purchase,
you could never have known the truth  never
have been freed from the fear of a successful
rival here. You would have had no heart
to go on sinking more money at Kershaw.'

You are a good special pleader, child,' he
said, patting her hand.

But she wanted to say more, only it was the
most difficult of all to say. ' And if you had
found coal here you would never have been
quite able to forget what it had cost you,
what you had been brought to believe  though
nobody dared blame you  that you had been
made to pay for it. You spoke of it once
to me ; don't you remember ? On one of
those miserable days. Forgive me, sir, for
reminding you of them. The penalty would
have lingered in your memory, on your conscience,
and marred everything. It would
have spoilt every success, and risen up afresh
to embitter disaster as if it were a just retribution.
I often thought of that. Father, you are
not so vexed as Jack and the mother imagine ?
For their sakes and mine, you will not mind
very much that you are spared all these
arrives senses? The smart of an unhealed
wound in the background has been at once
and for ever prevented. Now, you can have
nothing in this light to accuse yourself of. Is
not that alone an incalculable blessing ? '

His answer was to put his bony fingers on
the soft hand which held his arm, and ask her,
with one of the rare unclouded smiles that
lit up his grey, gaunt, hard-featured face like
sunshine on the rugged uplands of Kershaw
Moor, ' My dear, what do they say is the
meaning of your name ? '

My name ! ' she repeated, looking at him
in a puzzled way.

Yes, your name. Don't they pretend it is
a contraction for Benedict  Blessed There
are women of whom it is counted the greatest
honour to say that their children will rise up
and call them blessed. Do you think it ought
to be reckoned less praise when it is the father,
and not the children, who from the bottom of
his heart calls his good daughter blessed ? '

