L I E) Mary

OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS

V. \

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

APR 23

il

JUL 61 5

i  1

:cb

Lice O-1096

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/gardenofmemories01vele

MRS. AUSTIN

LIZZIE'S BARGAIN

MRS. AUSTIN

LIZZIE'S BARGAIN

BY

Margaret VELEY

AUTHOR OF ' MITCHELHURST PLACE, ETC.

VOL. L

Mention

MACMILLAN AND CO.

AND NEW YORK


All rights reserved.

V.I

f














i




WITHOUT

"June Aveatlier,
Blue above lane and wall."

The June sunshine lighted a dull little street,
where a row of small houses, mean, dirty, dilapidated,
faced a high wall. It was about three
o'clock, and Garden Lane was almost deserted, the
children being at school, and their elders at the
factory. Two or three loud-voiced, slatternly
women appeared and disappeared at the cottage
doors, looking after the babies who seemed to have
casually dropped into the squalid life of the place,
and the decrepit old folks who were near to
dropping out of it.

' VOL. I. B

Even in its peaceful condition the lane did not
seem likely to attract visitors. Yet a couple of
well-dressed men lingered there, talking earnestly,
and had already lingered for ten or fifteen minutes,
though there were pleasant spots within easy
reach. The elder of the two, a tall, neat, gray-whiskered
man of sixty or more, stood on the
footpath, with his back to the cottages, and poked
at the dust with a semi gold-headed cane. His
companion, much younger than himself, had halted
in the roadway, and was speaking rather defiantly,
with his hands in his pockets.

It was natural enough that the elder man
should raise his eyes from time to time, and that
they should rest on the wall that faced him. But
the other had his back to it, and" it was less
obvious why he should cast quick glances over his
shoulder, as if the wall made a third in the
conversation. They were curt, half-hostile glances,
and yet it was the pleasantness thing to look at in
Garden Lane. It was a substantial piece of
old-fashioned brickwork, which rose with an air

of strength, almost of stateliness, above its sordid
surroundings. Its base was polluted with the
filth of the street, and defaced with smears and
chalk-marks, but higher up it took the southern
radiance on its warmly coloured bricks, touched
here and there with lines and patches of bronze -
tinted moss, and over its crest, against the blue
June, flickered little wanton sprays of ivy and
vine. By standing very near the unsavoury
cottages the sunlit boughs of trees within the
enclosure might be descried.

The two men, however, betrayed no such extreme
curiosity. There was a small door just
opposite, set in the wall, with a projecting ledge
of brickwork above it, on which a tuft or two of
snapdragon grew, and thin, dry grasses seeded
airily. Evidently it was seldom opened, for the
children had made little erections of stones, and
dirt, and oyster-shells, upon the threshold. The
elder man's eyes lingered familiarly on the little
entrance, as if he could see some pleasant sight
beyond, but the other, when he turned to look,

ignored the doorway, and flung his glances higher,
where the glowing line of red bounded the sultry sky.

"You know me," he said, with a touch of
resentment in his tone. '' You ought to know me
well. You know I don't want to do anything but
what is fau' and right. But, I put it to you, am I
not offering more than it is worth ?"

"Decidedly more than it would be worth to
any other man," the other agreed. " And I think,"
he added with a smile, "that }'ou are offering a
little more than it is really worth to you."

Well then ?" said the young man crushingly.

But his companion made no answer. He
continued to smile, looking down and drawing
vague lines in the dust at his feet.

Why don't you tell her she'll never get such
an offer again?"

The point-blank question roused the other to
stare and exclaim, " Bless the man ! Do you
suppose I Tiavcnt told her ?"

Well then ? Why doesn't she take it ?
What more does she want?"

"No more. Unluckily for you she doesn't
want so much. She simply wants her own house
and garden. She won't sell."

But why ? What reason does she give ?"

"Do we ask a lady for a reason?" said the
other. " If we do we don't get one."

The fierce young man seemed to take the
little commonplace speech as a weighty truth.
"Heaven help me!" he said, "what have I ever
done that I should have to do business with a
woman?"

"Don't trouble yourself too much about that,
Brydon. I don't think you'll have any business
to do with her."

Brydon stood pondering  incredulous, yet
gloomy. "But it's absurd," he said. "Look
here  I'm not unreasonable. If the place had
been a long while in the family, if it had even
been her home when she was a child  well, I
suppose it might be called sentimental to refuse a
good offer, but it would be the kind of thing one
could understand, you know."

Certainly," the other assented.

One could understand it," Brydon continued,
and, if it were only a question of a good offer, I,
for one, could respect it. Yes, with all my heart."

He paused, giving his companion time for an
affirmative gesture, then went on.

"But what has Miss Wynne to do with the
place ? She bought it  how long ago ? A year ?
A year and a half? Well, a year and a half,
then. I suppose from what they tell me she only
happened to know of it because she was once here
for two or three months when the Macleanss had
it ; they say she was a sort of companion to old
Miss Maclean in those days. I shouldn't have
cared much to go as companion to Mary Anne myself,
and she doesn't seem to have liked it long !
But a year or two later, when the house was
empty, back she comes with money and a new
name, and buys it. Cheap too 1 Isn't that so ?"

"Just so."

"Well, is there anything in that to make a
woman refuse a good offer for it, when she knows

what her refusal means ? Look at those cottages
look at them, Eddington !" he threw out his
hand towards them with sudden passion. "Are
they fit for her fellow-creatures to live in ? There
they must live, however, there they must crowd
together beyond all chance of cleanliness or
decency, there they must die, because Miss
Wynne has taken a fancy to keep the only bit
of ground on which I could build them decent
dwellings, for a flower-garden ! The devil take
such fancies, say I ! "

Of course you feel strongly about it," said the
other. "It's only natural. But, after all, Miss
Wynne bought and paid for her house  you can't
confiscate people's property, you know."

But what does she want it for  tell me that !
The house is well enough, but there are better
ones on the Waltham Road. And as for a garden
is she bound to have a garden in the densest
and dirtiest part of the town ? They say Norman's
Folly is to be sold  why doesn't she buy
that ? She would get a really good garden there."

So is this a good garden. Do you know it ?"

Brydon shook his head. " The factory is on
one side of it, of course, but we have no windows
that way. And my uncle never got on with the
Macleanss, you know. He used to say he thought
he could have put up with old Teddy Maclean,
but he could not stand Mary Anne, so we didn't
visit."

'well, you know Miss Wynne ?" said Eddington,
beginning to move slowly along the footpath.

"I have met her," the young man answered,
"if you mean that. Somebody introduced us at
the vicarage one day. She made me a little bow
and a remark on the weather."

The other smiled. "She can be better company
than that."

Very likely. But I would have you remark
that it is Miss Wynne's room I want, and not her
company at all. I think I should prefer the
Macleanss."

"I daresay! You think you could have
bullied poor old Teddy, and had your own way."

But I could not have bullied Mary Anne !
Still I think I could have made a bargain with
her."

"Why not try with Miss Wynne?" said
Eddington, as they emerged into the High Street.
"Why leave all the arguments to me? You
might be more persuasive." .

Oh ! Persuasive !"

"Yes. Why not?"

I've no arguments but pounds, shillings, and
pence," the young millowner replied. "Will
they sound bigger from my mouth than from
yours ?"

You might find others."

"No. She doesn't care for the weavers and
their wretched cottages. And, being a fine young
lady, she probably thinks drainage an unpleasant
subject, and would not thank me for explaining to
her that she may be poisoned one of these days
by the filth of Garden Lane."

Well," said Eddington, " I can't say whether
she cares for weavers and drainage, or not. But

I don't think she cares for pounds, shillings, and
pence."

"Tell me' said Brydon abruptly, "do you
know her reason for refusing to sell? Keep ita
secret if you like, only tell me, do you knoiu it ?"

"I do not."

Well then, I'll try." He had spoken hitherto
in a defiant and rather masterful fashion, but now
he suddenly stood revealed as a shy young man.
I'll do what I can," he said, as if he needed the
assurance of his own reiterated pledge. " But it
won't be any good. I wish she lore Mary
Anne!"

"Thank you. / prefer Miss Wynne for a
client."

Brydon paused for a moment with his great
dark gray eyes fixed upon vacancy. "Yes, I'll
try," he repeated. "Well, good-bye for the
present."

"Stop," said Eddington. "Miss Wynne will
have some people there tomorrow  tennis and
afternoon tea, you know. Suppose you go with

me ? We are very good friends, lie and I ; I'll
undertake to promise you a welcome."

But I don't care for tennis."

"Very well, then, you can hand teacups. It
will be all the better for me."

Brydon hesitated. '' But how is one to do any
talking? That kind of thing is nothing but
idiotic chatter."

Oh, you can't drive a bargain then and there,
and pay the money down with the tennis players
for witnesses ! No, no, you may leave your
cheque-book at home. But, all the same, you
had better come with me  see how the land lies,
and have a look at the walled paradise  you may
understand Miss Wynne better after that."

But I hardly ever go to these stupid afternoon
affairs ; I'd much rather be at my work  I hate
'em," growled the young man. " Well, I'll go 
what time?" he added in a hurry, as if he were
afraid that Eddington might give up the idea.

The other smiled a little. "All right  call for
you at four," he said.

WITHIN

' Roses that down the alleys shine afar,
And open, jasmine-muffled lattices.
And groups under the dreaming garden-trees."

Mr. Thomas Beacon, standing a little apart
from the tennis players, eyed the coveted garden
With, stealthy eagerness. He knew its precise
extent and shape better than any other person
present, but the vision which had haunted him
for months was that of a somewhat irregular four-sided
patch, washed over with a uniform tint of
light green, bounded by pen-and-ink lines, and
conveniently supplied with a scale of measurement
and the points of the compass. The delineation

was accurate enough, yet the reality
took him a little by surprise.

He had had some idea of the ordinary suburban
garden, with its neat machine-mown lawn and
yellow gravel walks, its slim young trees, laburnum
and lime, and its gay stripes and masses of bedding
plants. He had walked many a time in
such gardens, and remembered their welhraked
borders, their standard roses bearing pendent
labels, and their latest novelties in variegated
foliage. He knew the rock-work in a shady
corner, dotted here and there with little homesick
ferns. All these things were familiar to
him.

But not this walled enclosure, where everything
told of long continuance. So many generations
had laboured within its bounds, each its
allotted span, so many seasons of sunshine and
rain had quickened the great trees whose white
roots were groping far below, that it seemed as if
one need only turn a spadeful of the deep black
earth for buried memories to terminate and bloom.

Spring flowers here were but the last links in a
long garland, stretching across the years to hands
that tended those same blossoms in pleasant old-fashioned
times. It was like the quaintest masquerade,
only to think of the women who had
walked in that garden. Who was the first  the
woman for whom the pleasure-ground was planted ?
And was Mary Wynne to be the last ?

Already it was but a narrow plot compared to
what it once had been. Tall buildings hemmed
it in, turning blank walls on its green seclusion.
Here was massive warehouses, there, above a
quivering screen of poplar leaves, rose a heaped
confusion of tiled roofs, a bit of torrid colour in
the midsummer sunlight, slopes of varied steepness,
blackened in places with soot and moss.
Little long-drawn clouds drifted from their
clustered chimneys across the western sky. There
was a gray glitter of glass in distant windows,
but it was strange how remote all eyes seemed to
be from Miss Wynne's shady lawn.

Half a minute had sufficed to give Brydon a

distinct impression of his surroundings. Then
with no change of attitude he lowered his glance
and surveyed the company. His young hostess
had given him the welcome that Eddington had
promised, and had only turned away to greet a
later arrival. He looked after her, curiously,
anxiously  his impression of her was anything
but distinct. How was this ? She had talked to
him for at least a couple of minutes, and Brydon
believed himself to be quick at reading faces.
He began to suspect that perhaps he had never
looked at her while she spoke.

The tennis party was an ordinary specimen of
such gatherings in a provincial town. There were
a good many ladies. Elderly clergymen had
brought their wives and daughters, and the wives
and daughters of busier men had come with
apologies for their absentees. Two or three lads,
just old enough to be reckoned as grown-up from
a lawn-tennis point of view, loitered about, always
keeping together, and looking on the women,
the old people, and polite manners generally, as

hindrances to rational enjoyment. The legal profession
was represented by Mr. Eddington, smiling
and talking in every direction, and a self-possessed
junior partner. There was a good-looking country
squire who had driven in, with two sisters and
a cousin, from a manor-house some four or five
miles away. And finally there was a curate from
his lodo'ino's in the Hio'h Street.

O o O

Some of the girls were pretty, but Brydon s
eyes seeking Miss Wynne lingered only on a tall,
willowy young woman, as distinct from all the
rest as if she were a foreigner. In point of fact,
her dwelling-place was nothing more remote than
Kensington, whence, being a little tired, she had
come for ten days' change, and was resentfully going
through the three tennis parties, one flower-show,
and one reopening of a church, which her friends
had offered as a round of gaiety.

Brydon's glance encountered hers, for she was
gazing fixedly at him from under her slanted
parasol while she talked to Mr. Eddington. His
story interested her, it was an excitement, an

enthusiasm, a struggle for mastery, and the issue
was uncertain. Perhaps it might be divined by a
little study of the young man. She was like a
traveller landed on an unknown shore, ignorant
of the local scale of values. She took no interest
in the good-looking squire, decidedly the most
important person there ; she passed by the curate
and the young lawyer with complete indifference,
but she expressed a wish to make Mr. Brydon's
acquaintance, and the next moment she was
rustling softly over the grass with ]mr. Eddington
in attendance. Brydon saw them coming, and
felt a shock of surprise and alarm. Wliat the
deuce did Eddington mean by it  couldn't he
mind his own business, and leave other people
alone ? But he had not presence of mind enough
to attempt an escape, and he stood, shifting uneasily
from one foot to the other, till he was
captured, and duly presented to Miss Hillier.

The worst of it was that her progress across the
lawn had attracted attention. The boys, standing
strictly on the defensive behind a convenient tree,

VOL. 1. C

silently conveyed to one another that she was a
guy. Their sisters looked after her with curiously
mingled feelings of disapproval and envy. Their
own freshly-made costumes somehow seemed too
new, and too neatly put on, by the side of those
faintly-coloured folds which twisted and trailed
and clung about the Kensington young lady. It
was true that the draperies and soft laces which
composed a harmony in yellows were slightly
tumbled and dingy. One felt that they had been
worn in a smoke-laden atmosphere, and crushed
in crowded little drawing-rooms. But, nevertheless,
there was an air of indefinable superiority
about Miss Hillier's dress, a careless completeness
of detail, to the yellow beads at her throat, and
the cluster of yellow roses, which seemed already
to fall, so loosely were they fastened.

Two sisters stood watching her, and the younger,
a pert schoolgirl, spoke under her breath.

"You don't call her pretty, I /iog  a limp,
affected thing ! And I do think when people goto
parties they might be clean I I should like to

send that dress to the wash  looks as if she had
slept in it."

"Yes," said the elder with a doubtful smile,
"perhaps it does. But she must have slept in
beautiful attitudes."

Brydon, embarrassed by the introduction, looked
sideways and down, while Miss Hillier smiled
languidly. "I've been hearing incredible things
about you, Mr. Brydon."

He was obliged to answer. "I  I wouldn't
believe them," he said.

"I shall be delighted to believe exactly the
contrary on your assurance."

He looked round despairingly, but Eddington
was gone. "I really don't know what I'm expected
to say," he replied. " I don't know what
the incredible things are."

Tell me that you don't want to desecrate this
sweet old-fashioned place by building cheap
houses all over it ! " Miss Hillier shuddered as
she spoke. " There are so many cheap houses in
the world, and so few old gardens. Mr. Brydon,

you couldn't really be such a vandal ! Not
really ! "

I don't know who has been talking about that."

Everybody ! We are all talking about you 
all watching you. JSTobody knows what dreadful
things you may be plotting. You haven't the
evil eye, I hope ? You won't blight the trees and
flowers with a glance ? "

Do you believe in the evil eye ? " he asked.

Why not ? I think you are dangerous. I
wish I had brought an amulet. But we are on
our guard, Mr. Brydon. Do not attempt to take
Miss Wynne into a corner, and mesmerise her
into signing away her property. I assure you we
won't allow it."

"What will you do?" he said, and, half-smiling,
he looked at her.

Miss Hillier's thoughts flashed from the question
to Brydon's eyes. They were his only beauty,
for he was not a handsome man. He was slightly
below the average height, he had a sallow skin,
very ordinary features, and a thin moustache that

scarcely shaded his upper lip. But for his eyes
he would have been insignificant. They however
were full of expression, and their depths of transparent
gray were deepened and darkened by the
black lashes that bordered them. "Eyes like
agates," Miss Hillier said afterwards, " really too
beautiful for a man of business."

"What would we do?" she repeated after a
momentary pause. " Well, really, I hardly know.
Part you by main force, I suppose."

But anyhow Miss Wynne and I must settle
it at last, you know ? "

She made a little affirmative sign. " Yes, and
I tremble for the result. It is always the same.
When it comes to be a question between mean
little houses and a dear old garden, the warden
goes, swallowed up in hateful bricks and mortar.
If I had any influence with Miss Wynne "

I hope to heaven you haven't ! " Brydon
ejaculated anxiously.

"I would entreat her to be firm. She has
made one mistake already."

What is that ? "

She should never have admitted you within
the gates of her stronghold. I saw you looking
round as if you were taking possession. If I were
Miss Wynne, Mr. Brydon, I should shut myself
up, and refuse to communicate with you."

Wouldn't you even answer a letter ? "

"Pistol" said Miss Hillier sternly. "I would
not. I would run no risks. If an answer were
absolutely necessary, I would send a little message
by that nice, talkative Mr. Eddington. But I
would not write, and as for an interview  never!"

Brydon was flattered, and laughed. It had
displeased him that his cherished scheme should
be made the subject of jesting talk, but a shy
man naturally likes to be told that a woman finds
him formidable.

"I don't know how I should manage  I'm
afraid you would be too clever for me," he said.
' I should have to try and make my way in in
disguise."

What, as the milk or the washing, or to look

at the gas-meter ? But seriously, Mr. Brydou, do
you really mean that you would have the heart
to destroy all this ? "

He looked round deliberately and calmly. He
had forgotten his shyness in the interest of the
question. His glance took in all, the house half-buried
in roses, vine and passion-flower, the fine
turf of the lawn, the masses of leafage  syringa,
myrtle, lilac, laurentius, and bay, the sweet old-fashioned
flowers, the bushes of lavender and
rosemary, the great trees, limes with their innumerable
bees, poplars quivering lightly in the sun,
tulip, juniper, chestnut, mulberry, medlar, and,
close by where he stood, two great cedars, sweeping
low with dusky horizontal boughs. Against
their soft dimness Miss Hillier's slender, yellow-draped
figure, fair dishevelled hair and refined face,
came out like a picture, a little faded and pale,
yet with a certain charm. Brydon's travelling
glance ended by meeting the eyes that watched
him, ejes tired and circled with faint shadows,
yet intense with questioning interest.

"Well," hs said slowly, 'i'm very glad you
should enjoy this to-day. It is very pretty,
prettier than I thought. I don't at all want to
spoil it now, but I should like to see the ground
clear this autumn, ready to begin work the first
thing in the spring."

"Never another spring for all this?" Miss
Hillier demanded tragically, indicating the surroundings
with a movement of hand and whist ina
wrinkled, tan-coloured glove.

"I'm very sorry," the young man replied.
But if the cheap houses are urgently needed "

Oh, that sounds like a prospectus ! If you
mean it as a speculation, Mr. Brydon, I daresay it
may be a good one  I'm not questioning that."

"A speculation " he began, but instantly

checked himself. " Well, I should like it to pay,"
he said, " but one gives a fancy price for a bit of
ground like this. There's no chance of making a
fortune out of it  worse luck : Still, I hope it
will pay  I haven't much opinion of things that
don't."

I would rather not have the money you get
for this desecration 1 "

It won't be much."

You will do it for a little ?"

"Yes. If you could see the cottages beyond
that wall!"

So very bad ?" in a voice of languid softness.

So hopelessly bad and overcrowded. I wish
Miss Wynne would have that gate set open into
the lane ! Is the key in it, I wonder ? Come and
see."

She drew back. '' Xo, no ! There's a time for
everything, Mr. Brydon. Not now."

"Yes, the time for that kind of thing mostly
is, 'not now.' I ought to have known. Well,
you must take my word for it that if you saw
those cottages you would wish me success in my
speculation."

"Indeed I should do nothing of the kind.
Can't you put your cottages somewhere else 1"

There is nowhere else. See how we are built
in."

And for that very reason I would fight to the
last for this bit  the only remnant of sweetness
and beauty left to you. Did you ever think what
a source of health and joy an old garden is among
these crowded alleys ? And how full of poetry !
Paradise within a stone's throw of the squalid
ugliness of a town like this 1"

Can't look into Paradise, you know," said
Brydon.

"What then? Is the knowledge of hidden
beauty nothing ? It seems to me that one might
breathe the flower-scented air "  the young man's
lips twitched in a curious little spasm  "and
dream by the wall which conceals and yet suggests
it  dreams more precious than the dull realities
of life. Why, all one's ideals would be there !"

(Brydon privately wondered what Miss Hillier's
ideals would be if she had been brought up in
Garden Lane instead of Kensington. While he
was thinking about it, however, he found that she
had gone on, and he was compelled to follow.)

Think for one moment what half a dozen old

gardens  not enclosures in the middle of squares
of stucco-fronted houses  and not old graveyards
laid out with shrubs and tablets, but real old
gardens  gardens that people had loved and
gardened in, gardens with memories, would be in
London now ! Don't their very names haunt you ?
Don't you feel a pang of regret when you drive
by them in a cab?  those ghosts of gardens,
forgotten long ago but for their names painted
up at the corners of dirty unwholesome little
streets ! I daresay they said houses were urgently
needed  but it is the old garden that is needed
now !"

Brydon was certain that Miss Hillier was
talking nonsense, but he wished she wouldn't, for
the nonsense perplexed him. Did women argue
like that about a simple matter of business ? If.
so, Eddington might do the talking, for he'd be
hanged if he would, and he stood with downcast
eyes, twisting his straggling little moustache, and
looking perfectly insignificant.

I suppose that is what you will do," said Miss

Hillier. "You will cut down these trees, make
the place hideously bare, and call it 'The Cedars' ?"

"Let me only build my houses and you may
call them what you like."

She laughed a little. " Take care ! Well, I
suppose you will get your own way. Perhaps
you will live to regret it."

"If you would only go and  and smell those
cottages  only once ! " said the young man, growing
desperate. "You wouldn't doubt then that
I ought to have my own way in this !"

Not if they were absolute piastres ! "

They are."

"Then make them better if you can. But
never sacrifice the priceless inheritance of the
future to the comfort of a passing generation."

Brydon was dumb, silenced, not by the argument
 he had not had time to consider it  but
by the turn of the sentence. He could not be
expected to talk like that.

You are not to be moved  you have no pity
on all this loveliness ?" Miss Hiller continued

after a pause. " Does not the very rustling of the
leaves plead for mercy ? Listen  listen !"

This was obviously poetry and nonsense, and
Brydon broke roughly through the faint whispers
far overhead. "I keep my pity for those who
can feel."

"And do you think that trees and flowers
cannot feel? But they do  I am sure they do,"
she said, gazing at him with mournful intensity.
Ah, how I wish that I could be the guardian of
a spot like this ! What a sweet atmosphere of
gratitude to live in!" Here she seemed to wave
a little towards an approaching figure. "I was
just envying you, Miss Wynne."

(" Here's another of them ! " said Brydon to
himself.)

Envying  me ? " Mary Wynne repeated, with
a little questioning pause between the words.

"Yes  envying you your power to resist Mr.
Brydon. I can only tell him how I would resist
him if the ground were mine."

Brydon, in his talk with the lawyer, had called

Miss Wynne a fine lady, and certainly she was
finely dressed that afternoon. But as Miss Hillier
spoke she suddenly looked at him with eyes
timid as a child's, a liquid, shy, appealing glance.
However fine she might be, she was very unlike
the young lady from Marlborough Terrace.

"It's a pretty garden, isn't it?" was her offer
of an original contribution to the conversation.
You have been here before ?"

Sever," said Brydon laconically.

Miss Hillier looked questioningly from one to
the other, as if measuring their respective force
and calculating chances.

Never ?" Miss Wynne exclaimed. " Oh, then
you don't know how pretty it is ! I mean that
the plants and things only look to you what they
are at this minute "

Pretty enough," he said.

Yes. But if you had seen them all budding
and blossoming ! That great old thorn over there
it looks just like any other thorn, but it's a
double one. I suppose it isn't right to like double

flowers' she said, half glancing at the pensive
yellow-draped bystander, who smiled.

"Like what you like  I do." Brydon threw
this in defiantly.

"Well, just for once," Miss Wynne continued.
I don't want all the hawthorns like it, but it was
very pretty this spring. It was covered with
blossoms like the tiniest, tiniest roses, white, you
know, almost greenish white  you might have
made nosegays of them for fairies as tall as your
finger."

"Pretty," said the young mill owner again.
I'm sure I don't want to depreciate your garden,
Miss Wynne. Those are not my tactics."

There was a soft rustling trailing folds on
the fine dry grass while he spoke. The principals
in the coming contest were left for the moment
face to face and alone.

A Truce

There was a brief silence. Then Miss Wynne
said, " Wouldn't you like just to walk round and
look at the place ? "

He assented, and the pair moved slowly, side
by side, along a mossy gravel path. Eddington,
where he stood on the lawn, followed them with
his eyes, and smiled. " They had better fight it
out," said Miss Hillier, sweeping softly towards
him.

So I think," the old gentleman replied.

I have done my best," she continued.

"On which side?"

Can you ask ? My best to persuade Mr.

A TRUCE 33

Brydon to relinquish this wicked scheme of
his."

**Ah  I see  your worst for my client. No
matter, Brydon is as obstinate as  as fifty mules."

So I haven't done any harm ?" said Miss
Hillier, smiling good-humouredly.

"Not a bit," said Eddington, "and I don't
suppose I have done any good."

You really take that vandal's part ? You
can't!"

"Miss Wynne will never get such another
offer. If the garden were yours I should certainly
advise you to accept it. You would  wouldn't
you?"

Never ! How can you think it ? "

"You wouldn't?" said Eddington. "I'm delighted
to hear it. You would give up all the
world  give up Kensington, to settle down among
us all and take care of these cedars !"

The sun was shining on the great shadowy
trees and on the transitory, faintly-tinted little
figure on the grass below. It was strange to think

VOL. I. D

that those dusky giants were so sorely iu need of
protection.

Meanwhile the arbiters of their' fate had paused
in their walk, and were looking up, where beyond
a screen of blossoming limes rose the high unbroken
wall of a arose buildings. From behind it

O CD

came a measured sound, dull yet distinct, like the
heavy throbbing of great pulses. Brydon's looms
were at work.

It seems strange," said Miss Wynne, facing
the eyeless surface, " that you should be so near,
and yet never have come into the garden till
to-day."

I don't see it. My place is on the other side
of the wall"

But that's what I mean. A wall seems such
a little thing to part two places so completely."

Does it ?" said Brydon shortly. " I fancy it's
mostly like that. Only children cry for the moon
for things obviously out of reach. AVe older
and wiser folk waste our lives on the wrong side
of the thinnest possible partition."

It would be something, though," said Mary
Wynne in a meditative voice, " to be sure that 
that it was only on the other side of a thin
partition."

It," he repeated, and his isolation of the word
gave it an emphasis which sent a faint flush to
his companion's cheek. " ' It ' is the ideal, I
suppose. Wei], I don't know where yours maybe
"

I'm sure I can't tell you  I don't know that
I've got one. But I know where yours is."

Well, I suppose you do."

She faced him suddenly with a beseeching
glance. " Oh, Mr. Brydon, is it any good telling
you how sorry I am that I can't break down your
wall for you ?"

It's very kind of you to say so."

"Don't!" she entreated.

"Well, if you can't, you know," said Brydon,
why  you can't."

"But it isn't like that  I can't, and yet of
course I could."

Oil yes, under some other circumstances.
Well, I don't see wliy you should worry yourself
about it. You have a perfect right to say ' won't '
why not end the matter so ? "

Have I a right to say I won't ? Do you think
I have?"

"A legal right, anyhow."

She moved slowly onward. He kept near her
in a hesitating fashion, through the flickering
leaf-shadows which dappled the light folds of her
gown. She walked languidly, droopingly, as if
she were burdened. They were close to the
southern wall of her domain, and her eyes strayed
to a small entrance overhung with clematis and
honeysuckle, and approached through a little
arch, about which a climbing rose was delicately
tangled. Brydon swerved towards it and she
stood still. The key was in the lock, he turned
it, opened the door, and she saw an oblong
picture of Garden Lane in a frame of flower and
leaf

A dirty child started up from the threshold,

dragging a dirty baby. The baby, which had but
just learned to walk, was swung off its rickety
little legs, and fell on its face into the hot dust of
the roadway, where already lay an old boot, a
dead kitten, some shreds of paper, and a battered
tin. Being dragged up and shaken it looked little
the worse, and hardly any dirtier. Its guardian
sister, clutching it absent-minded, halted at a
little distance, where she showed a face of a
common type, and a sore eye, partially obscured
by a filthy strip of rag. The other eye, dilating
with wonder, stared past Miss Wynne at the
distant figures of the gentlefolks, seen, lightly
active in the sunlit greenness of the garden, intent
upon a flying ball. A girl cried out a lad,
all white arms and legs, sprang to strike.

Brydon closed the door and locked it.

Miss Wynne's gaze passed from the doorway
to Brydon's face. " I thought you were going
out," she said, as he approached, swinging the key
on his finger.

"Oh no!" he answered. "I only wanted to

look at my side of the wall for a moment. No, I
wasn't going to beat a retreat like that."

Why did you shut the gate so quickly ? Did
you see that poor child? How she stared !"

Naturally," said Brydon. " But I didn't know
you would enjoy being stared at."

It seemed so cruel to shut her out. Oh, how
cruel I am ! "

Her companion said nothing.

"How I wish there was some other ground
that you could take, Mr. Brydon ! Something
that would do for your cottages. Isn't there?
Are you sure ? "

Brydon turned his dark-lashed eyes full upon
her, and bit his lip. The maddening, innocent
folly of the question took his breath away for a
moment, and when he recovered it his self-control
came too. It was fortunate, for he had never felt
so great a need of an oath, something brief,
sudden, brutal, like a discharge of dynamite. To
ask a man who had been brooding over his scheme,
night and day, for months, whether by any chance

he had ever thought of it at all  it was too much !
First he longed to swear, then he would have
liked to laugh, but he only said quietly, " If there
had been, my cottages would be built."

She answered with a sigh. "Of course they
would. It was fooHsh to ask, I suppose ; but I
wished so much that there might be ! "

I'm sorry too," said the young man. " But if
you were to look at a plan, you'd see in a minute.
There's the Baptist chapel runs right into me on
the other side, and the corner bit is the public-house
 'Hand and Flower,' don't you know?
Here's the road," and he began to trace imaginary
lines with the key on the palm of his hand.
Then there's Burgoyne's brewery at the back
of me  you can see a bit of the roof over there,"
nodding towards it. "Well, of course, I could
build some cottages somewhere else  on the
nearest bit I could get, though I doubt it
wouldn't be very near, this neighbourhood is so
crowded. Still it might be better than nothing.
But it isn't only the cottages, it's the mill. I

want to enlarge it, to improve it. It isn't well
built  there isn't room enough in it  it isn't
properly ventilated. In a word, it's old-fashioned.
I'm sure it isn't wholesome ; I do what I can, but
nothing can be done worth doing without more
space."

Brydon had made what was, for him, a remarkably
long speech, and his tone throughout
had been patiently explanatory and even gentle.
That brief gust of irritation had passed and left
no trace. Miss Wynne was perplexing, but he
did believe her to be sincere, and sincerity atoned
for much. He wished he hadn't to deal with a
woman  women were not practical, but that was
not Miss Wynne's fault. He recognised her
claim to elaborate explanations and a certain
amount of humouring. Business, in a case like
this, must be polite, must wear light gloves and a
flower in its button-hole.

And at any rate Miss Wynne had listened to
him. She had noted every syllable that fell from
his lips, and when he paused she looked almost

too serious. The young man felt that the time
was ill-chosen, that he had said too much. A
face like that, with dejection and appeal in every
delicate line, was not fit wear for a tennis party.
"I forgot," he exclaimed with a short uneasy
laugh, "Eddington said I wasn't to try to drive
a bargain to-day."

Do you always do what Mr. Eddington tells
you?"

No. He's not my adviser, you see."

He's very much on your side, LIr. Brydon. I
should think you might say what you pleased, he
talks enough himself. He tells me I shall never
have such another offer for the garden."

I doubt if you will."

"No  it's splendid  it's munificent, I'm dazzled
when I think of it ! Only what I wanted
was not to have any offer at all ! As it is, my
greatest comfort is that I'm refusing a small
fortune  I'm not seeking my own profit, no one
can say that !"

I'm glad you think so much of my offer,"

said the young man, 'for I can't make it any
bigger. Such as it is, it's my last word  I can't
do anything more in the dazzling line."

I don't leant any more. I'd rather not."

Oh well, that's all right. I fancy it takes
a woman to feel like that. Most of us would
always rather have some more  / would, I
know."

I don't want to make a profit out of it. You
are offering me too much already."

Well, I'll beat you down if you'll give me a
chance," said Brydon ; '' but I can't go any higher.
Sooner than that I'd move the whole concern.
I've had the offer of some land three miles off, at
Holly Hill."

Her eyes lighted up with radiant hope, her
face was transfigured. " Oh, why don't you do
that ? I was out that way yesterday  it was
lovely ! Such open breezy slopes, such gorse,
such a wide clear sky ! Mr. Brydon, it would be
life to your poor people. Oh, how happy I should
be ! Fancy that wretched little girl out in the

fresh air at Holly Hill  and the baby  it would
be ten times better  a thousand times better than
anything you could do here. Oh, why don't you
do it? It would be perfect. Out in the open,
away from all these crowding roofs and houses 
do it, Mr. Brydon ! Oh, you must !"

She seemed to rise with the eager rapture of
her voice. He stared, he listened with parted
lips, and then with his answer they both came
down to earth again.

"Several things against it, Miss Wynne. It
would be an experiment, and a hazardous one.
You don't know how these poor people cling to
the neighbourhood they have known. I suspecta
good many would stay on here and starve,
sooner than go to Holly Hill. It would break up
families too  there are girls working for me, and
their brothers have got places as errand boys and
the like in the town. And they would be a
couple of miles from church or school. That
isn't all, either. It would require a greater outlay
than I could manage at present ; it might be the

best in the end, but I should have to wait  years.
I have my mother to think of, she lives at
Brighton, she depends on me; I can run risks
for myself, but not for her. I can't tell how 
might be before I should dare to move in the
matter, and all that time these miserable children
would be growing up  crowds of 'em  in their
filth and' wretchedness. Why, I might die first!
Oh no ! I've thought it all out ; I only told you
that you might understand why I set that limit
to the price I was prepared to offer ; if you asked
more Holly Hill would be better."

He had effectually quenched the brightness of
her glance. " I should never ask more ! I have
told you already, it is too much."

I know. But your friends "

I have none."

Only yourself to consider in the matter,
then?"

I suppose so." The swift colour flew to her
cheek. " Yes, only myself."

So much the better," said Brydon absently.

She looked at him quickly and questioningly, and
brought back his wandering thoughts. He evidently
felt that he must explain himself. "It
narrows the discussion, don't you know?  brings
it within manageable limits." Then he considered
for a moment. "I don't mean that you are
manageable, Miss Wynne," he concluded, and
having explained away his explanation, was
silent.

"I think I ought to go back," Miss Wynne
replied. " Don't you play tennis ? "

He shook his head. " I've kept you too long.
And I've been talking business again ! "
I don't know why you shouldn't."
It seems as if I couldn't talk anything else."
"Well, that's what is expected of you," said
Miss Wynne. "Everybody was sure you would
talk about your cottages. They wouldn't interrupt,
they are all so interested."

Brydon looked sideways at the tennis players,
drawing down his brows. " I'm not expected to
talk about anything else  well, it's satisfactory to

know that. Am I supposed to have finished now,
do you think ? If so, as you say, we had better
go back."

"ISTo, stop a minute." She had caught the
sense of his words, but not the displeased tone.
Her face was quickening with a new thought.
Mr. Brydon, I have an idea ! Why shouldn't
you make some windows in your wall ? Wouldn't
that make it better for your people  a little
better, at any rate ? Wouldn't it be brighter and
more cheerful? Why don't you?"

But I've no right," said Brydon.

But if I say you may ? "

Nonsense  you are not going to say anything
of the kind. How should you like to be overlooked
by rows and rows of windows ? "

She flinched a little, but reiterated her " You
may if you like."

"But I don't like! I won't do it. Even if
you never regretted it for yourself, you'll want to
sell or let the place some day, and then you'd
find out the inconvenience of it fast enough. You

A TRUCE 47

shouldn't say things like that without consulting
Eddington."

"Indeed? I fancied I might say what I
pleased."

"No," said the young man, "you'd keep your
word. Well, it doesn't matter this time. It's
very kind of you, Miss Wynne, but really it would
do you much more harm than it would do me
good. It's not so very noble of me to say ' No.'
I don't care for half-and-half concessions." He
looked her straight in the face, their eyes were
about on a level  his were lucid and resolute.
All or nothing. Miss Wynne."

Hers dropped, escaping him. Her lips parted
as if she were about to speak, but no sound came.
All  or  nothing," Brydon repeated.

She found her voice then, but it was hardly
above a whisper. " I'm sorry  sorry, but it must
be nothing. I can't help it."

Don't say it like that ! " he exclaimed. " I
didn't mean to pain you. Look here, I'll tell you
how it shall be. We'll leave it till the beginning

of the year. You shan't be bothered any more,
no one shall mention it to you, but my offer shall
hold good till then ; and if you change your mind
and like to say ' Yes you can, any minute. And
if not  why, your silence shall be your final
answer when the new year comes  it will do as
well as anything else, and it will make it easy for
you. Is it a bargain ? "

She was grateful for the respite. 'eyes," she
said. They walked across the grass to the rest of
the party, only pausing once while she gathered
a bit of heliotrope, which seemed to require careful
selection. Brydon fancied she was gaining
time to recover her usual calmness. She offered
him the flower with a smile.

While he was putting it in his coat he murmured
something about thinking he must be off
now.

"So soon?" said his hostess, as they came upto
a group near the tennis players. Eddington
turned round and looked at them.

Oh, my prophetic soul ! " Miss Hillier exclaimed,

in a voice which seemed thinner and
clearer than those about her, and struck a distinct
note among them all. " The battle is over, and
lost ! Look at Mr. Brydon  he has begun topick
the flowers, and he has taken possession of
the key."

All eyes converged on the young mill-owner,
who looked down at the key which he was absently
holding, and remembered that he had taken
it out of the lock of the little gate. He crimsoned,
like an angry, bashful boy, with vexation at the
trivial blunder, and at the widening smile which
encircled him, " It isn't so at all," he began, just
as the white-channelled young squire broke in with
his easy laugh 

"Going to lock us all out and begin to cut
down the trees, eh, Brydon ? Like old Gladstone,
eh ? No time like the present, is there ? "

Brydon fastened on the one point in the circle
at which he could strike. " Nothing of the kind,"
he said, perversely exulting in his own defeat,
since it enabled him to contradict the smiling

VOL. I. E

young man. "Miss Wynne has sent me about
my business  haven't you, Miss Wjome ? "

She blushed. " Oh, not like that ! " she cried.

"But you have  and the proof of it is that
I'm going, as I told you just now, didn't I ? I
can't think how I can have been so stupid as to
bring the key away, but, if you'll allow me, I'll
go out by that little door  it's nearer for me."

Don't you let him take the key, Miss Wynne,"
said the young squire. "Don't you trust him.
Give it to Miss Hillier  she'll see him out at the
little door, and double lock it after him, won't
you. Miss Holier ? "

Do I look like a turnkey ? " said that young
lady languidly. "Eeally, Mr. Haldane, I wasn't
brought up to the profession. And I'm sure Mr.
Brydon is an honourable enemy "

Oh, you're too trustful ! Ladies always are."

"I wonder at it," Miss Hillier replied. "Are
you really going, Mr. Brydon? Good-bye, then,
and you'll let me wish you all success in cottage-building
 somewhere else ! "

Thank you," said Brydon.

"You'll be sure to find some other place for
your little cheap houses  won't he, Miss Wynne,
if he only looks ? Oh, I don't mean to be rude to
them  they'll be charming little houses, I daresay,
and I shall be quite interested in hearing about
them now I know they are not to be here. There
must be plenty of room, without spoiling this
sweet old place. Good-hyQ!'

Brydon listened, looking straight at her with
an air of dumb resignation. He shook hands with
Miss Wynne, then turned to Eddington. "I'll
walk to the gate with you," said the old lawyer,
and the pair went off together, taking the most
direct way to the little door, by a great clump of
Portugal laurel, quivering and shining in the sun.
Eddington walked in his erect, old-gentlemanly
fashion, but Brydon slouched carelessly and
moodily, and seemed to swerve a little from his
companion as they went, with their shadows
falling far across the shaven turf.

He hurried out of the garden, never turning

U/V/VERSITVnr,u,NOIS

this head, and consequently was unaware of the
curiously intent gaze with which Miss Wynne
followed him. In fact it was lost on every one
but Miss Hillier, who was thinking that her young
hostess would make a charming picture. She
went further, and thought of a young artist friend
at Kensington who would be the very man to
paint it. " Just the kind of tiling to suit him, T
luisli he were here 1 Against a bit of that old,
mellow brick wall  how well she would come
out ! And the sentiment of the thing, too  exactly
what he would enjoy  it's a thousand pities
he isn't here. A Guardian Genius  oh, I see it
all 1 A line or two of description to explain it,
and it's just what the public would understand
and like. He might do something with the idea,
perhaps, but that's not like seeing the real thing.
Only, isn't the guardian genius a little too sad ?
Can she be repenting as she looks after Mr.
Brydon ? No doubt it would be a fine thing to
sell her house and grounds for about double what
she gave for them  one could do so much with

A TRUCE 53

the money  and yet I didn't think she was that
kind of girl. But this certainly does look like
repentance."

Acting on this suspicion, Miss Hillier went upto
her hostess with warm congratulations. " I am
so glad  so very glad," she said. " It would have
been desecration. I'm so glad you felt it so too 
so thankful it was in your hands."

"I don't know," said Miss Wynne vaguely.
The gate opened into Garden Lane and a figure
vanished through it. Eddington came strolling
back alone, looking at the flower beds.

Miss Hillier could not repress an exclamation.
What a relief ! He is gone."

Yes. I only hope it is right. You think it
is, don't you ?"

Eight?" cried Miss Hillier rapturously. "Your
defence of the garden ? Eight ! It is much more
than right  it is Noble  it is Perfectly Beautiful!"


I should like to know that it was right, too,"
said Miss Wynne simply.

But it is right  it must be ! There can be
no doubt of it!" The other turned her gentle
eyes on the Kensington young lady's face. " I
hope so," she said.

The old lawyer came up and the talk ended,
but Miss Hillier thought it over, and as she drove
away with her friends through the midsummer
evening she leaned forward and spoke impressively.
"Jessie, mind you write and tell me
about the garden, when it is all settled, you know."

Jessie's brother, one of the tennis playing
youths, spoke up instantly. " Oh, but that's allover
 didn't you hear ? He's not going to have
it  she won't sell. / would  I'd stand out for
the very last farthing, but then I would. I
wouldn't be fool enough to lose a chance like
that!"

"Wouldn't you, Owen?" said the thin superior
voice. " Well, I don't think Miss Wynne will befool
enough either. I fancy Mr. Brydon will get
what he wants  soon. What a lovely moon ! "

Do you really ? " Jessie exclaimed. " I thought

she was quite determined. What makes you
think that?"

I don't know, but I do think it. Only write
to me when she sells it  I should like to know."
The carriage rolled smoothly on between the
hedgerows, and Miss Hillier sat thinking. " It's
not the money," she said to herself, " it's a case of
conscience, but that's just as fatal. He'll surely
get in." She seemed to see Miss Wynne's conscience
working silently, inexorably, as waters
work in the dead of night, filtering through tiny
unseen channels, widening their narrow ways,
sapping the heavy dyke, flowing, streaming, rushing
with resistless force, till daylight comes, defences
fall and all lies open. " A guardian genius
has no highness to have a conscience !" thought
Miss Hillier, "though to be sure the idea for a
picture is just as good. I really must tell Mr.
Wargrave. Only, if she feels like that, why
doesn't she let Mr. Brydon have his cottages at
once?"

WHY NOT?

Why does she not let Mr. Brydon have his cottages
at once ? It was the very question the
young man asked himself as he sat that evening
in his little room at the factory. As he bent over
his desk, propping his forehead on one hand while
with the other he pencilled figures on a loose
sheet of paper, he looked like the incarnation of
intense research, though he was really musing as
idly as Miss Hillier herself. Why would not
Miss Wynne part with her garden ?

Her distress had been evident. A memory of
her gentle dejected face floated between his eyes
and the paper, so faint that he went on scribbling

WHY NOT ? 57

his figures right through it, and yet it seemed
somehow to cling to him. Never once had she
attempted to explain her refusal. " Oh, how cruel
I am!" she had said, as she looked out at the
poor little wretch in the lane, and Brydon believed
in the sincerity of the cry. But she had
not uttered a word to justify, or even to extenuate
her cruelty. She had spoken as if it were inevitable
 "It must be; I can't help it"  while expressly
avowing that there was nothing below the
surface which was a legal hindrance to the sale.
I can't," she had said, " and yet of course I
could." He put all these speeches of hers together
in his mind and considered them. * I wonder
what her reason is, for she must have a reason. I
know she has, because she won't give me any. If
she hadn't one she would have invented half a
dozen."

He looked at the paper on which he had been
scribbling. He had absently written down the
sum which he proposed to give Miss Wynne, and
then had multiplied it, and multiplied that again

till it swelled to a fabulous amount. "And I
suppose she'd tell me that that wouldn't buy it !"
he said to himself. " Should I believe her ?"

He turned sideways to his table, flung his legs
over the arm of his chair, and proceeded to light
his pipe. The window of his room looked into
Garden Lane. The blind was drawn down but
the sash was raised for air, and a man staggered
along in the roadway below, howling a song.
"Hezekiah Barnes, if I'm not mistaken, home
from the 'Hand and Flower'" The discordant
yell was suddenly interrupted by a torrent of
shrill abuse. "Just so," said Brydon, half-aloud.
"Betsy Barnes it is. There's no mistaking her!
Ah, he's going in  head foremost I should think.
And now I suppose Hezekiah junior, and Ada,
and Minnie, and Fred, and the little ones, are all
waking up to have their minds improved, and
perhaps to join in the fray. Well, I can't help
it."

He smoked on, staring fixedly at the wall. It
was coarsely papered with a representation of

WHY NOT ? 59

large blocks of granite. The paper was discoloured
and torn in one corner where the damp
had come in, and the contrast between its shabby
flimsiness and the stately solidity which it mocked
was grotesque. The flaring gas had blackened
the ceiling and grimed the whole room. Thomas
Brydon gazed at his granite, got up, laid his hand
upon it, leant his shoulder against it. He had
never taken much heed of it before ; he had left
the dirty little office as he found it when he
became master. It had been good enough for his
uncle, it was good enough for him. And the wall
had been the boundary of his dominion. But
now he felt it merely an obstacle ; he braced himself
as if he would have conquered it by sheer
might of muscle, as if he would have thrust himself
through, where, at arm's length  he had never
realised before how literally the object of his
desire was at arm's length  the full moon was
shining on the blossoming limes. The slender
boughs were swaying softly in the fresh night air,
which smelt of their sweetness ; they touched the

brickwork with light leaf sprays and delicate
moving shadows, while on the other side he faced
his torn and faded wall-paper, and felt himself as
hopelessly shut out as by square blocks of adamant.
"Wliat is there in the garden that she
can't part with ? " he mused. " It isn't as if she
had known it long. By Jove, it's like the old
rhyme 

' Mary, Mary, quite contrary,
What does your garden grow ? ' "

The conceit pleased him, and in a whimsical way
seemed to put him on better terms with his neighbour.
Henceforth she was something more than
"Miss Wynne" to him, she was the "Mary,
Mary," whose " contrariness " was an acknowledged
fact since the days of his childhood. Evidently
she was only fulfilling her destiny.

She sat alone that night on the cushioned
window-seat of her parlour, tapped in a soft
white shawl, and resting her arm on the sill.
Behind her the lamp burned steadily, a yellow

globe, and the little moths came hurrying in from
the shadows of the trees.

The garden was blossoming for her with all its
memories, but after all how few and small they
were ! She had been about half a year with the
Macleanss, and out of those six months there had
been nearly three weeks of sweet remembrance.
Eighteen days  no more  during which Philip
had idled about those mossy walks, reading,
smoking, dreaming, and sometimes, with a finger
in his book, studying the glimpses of blue through
the sweeping cedar boughs, or the little plants
that grew in the crevices of the buttressed wall.
Not so much as eighteen hours  not eighteen
half-hours out of those days, in which Philip had
talked, in his gentle, rather melancholy fashion
generally choosing the most interesting of all
subjects  himself. Mary had never listened to a
young man's confidences before, and she accepted
them as an appeal, a trust reposed in her which
claimed her gratitude and loyalty. His hopes,
his fears, his plans, his wrongs, as he let them fall

from his half-smiling lips, were gathered into a
tender little heart and cherished there. She
remembered the very spot where he stood, looking
round, and said that he should never forget the
place. " I shall think of it wherever I may go.
I should like to come back years hence, perhaps,
and find it just the same, only mellowed and
ripened with the sun of a few more seasons  the
passion-flower grown higher about the study
window, the wistaria a little farther along the
west wall, just enough to show it had been living
while I was gone. It is the sweetest old garden
I ever saw. It is like a convent garden. I feel
as if there were something sacred about it. I like
the roofs and houses all round, and this one spot,
sheltered and green and blossoming. I shall
dream of it when I am  heaven knows where I
shall be ! Perhaps in some suburban street with
half a dozen geraniums on the window sill. More
likely in some big dreary new country, which is
only xroud of its so many square miles, and hasn't
such a thing as an old wall. The flowers will all

WHY NOT ? 63

be new acquaintances there  how homesick I
shall be ! How I shall dream of the sweet-smelling
bushes here  myrtle, and bay, and rosemary,
and lavender ! I think I should like to be buried
here when I die  laid in the soft black earth, to
come up in spring in homely old-fashioned flowers.
Would you set sweet basil over me, I wonder?
But I want to come back here alive first, just to
feel the quiet sunny welcome of the place, to
smell the earth and leaves and flowers, and hear
the bees. What nonsense all this is ! I daresay
the garden will be sold and spoilt long before I
come back to it !"

Oh, if I could save it for you !" thought Mary,
and ached with an impotent longing to give him
his fancy.

He had gone away soon afterwards, leaving the
memory of words and glances, which might mean
all or nothing, and little more substantial excepta
list of books scribbled on the fly-leaf of an old
letter, and an outline, on a page torn from his
little sketch-book, of the house where his earliest

childhood had been spent. " The old fir-tree was
just here," he had said, explaining some boyish
exploit, and had tinted in its scarred and writhen
stem and broken boughs with a few vigorous
pencil strokes.

Mary was the possessor of these treasures, both
literary and artistic, and also of some information
concerning Philip's career. She knew that his
father and mother were both dead, and that an
uncle of his mother's had brought him up in a
kindly, slovenly fashion, permitting him to do
very much as he pleased, and rather ignoring than
sanctioning his desire to be an artist. The old
gentleman hated scenes, and arguments, and decisions,
and let matters drift, from unwillingness
to act. Of late, however, matters had not been
going so smoothly. Mr. Frere had put some
money into a mine which appeared to be of
extraordinary depth. Nothing came out of it,
and nobody could get to the bottom of the thing.
Perhaps it hasn't any bottom to it," said Philip,
idly crushing the leaves of the walnut-tree under

WHY NOT ? 65

which he stood. "How sweet these leaves are!
Anyhow he has dropped his money out of reach,
and he is out of temper with me in consequence.
He knows very well that I'm guiltless of silver-mining,
but he must find fault with some one, so
he says I ought to get to work. And it appears
that what I call work he calls idling. Well, it is
not very remunerative at present, and perhaps the
old boy can't manage to keep me at it. We had
almost a quarrel  more shame for me, for he's a
good old fellow !  and then it was settled that I
should come here for a bit, to these cousins of his,
while he went to town  I suppose to try to look
into this blessed mine a little. Que diable allait-il
faire dans cette yare ? So here am I stranded.
I've an elder brother in New Zealand who wants
me to go out there. I suppose he thinks he should
enjoy my society, or perhaps he fancies I should
be ornamental, for I'm sure I shouldn't be the
least good to him. He'd be horribly disappointed
if I did go out ; he hasn't seen me since I was
ten or eleven, when I was always at his heels,

VOL. I. F

worshipping him because he could smoke, and
knew a lot of card tricks, and had a gun. He
used to encourage me in all sorts of mischief, and
it seems to me he was always turning me upside
down. I liked it immensely, you know, but how
does it strike you as a basis for lifelong companionship
? I have my doubts even as to my brother,
and I'm certain I should loathe the life. Well,
then, I've got an uncle, I forget where he is, it's
out in America, I know  something beginning
with a C. Could it be Colorado, I wonder? I
suppose he'd want me to help kill beetles. Why
couldn't my relations settle in some decent kind
of place ? An uncle in Italy, now, one might be
glad of an uncle in Italy, but what can one do
with one in Colorado or Chicago, or wherever it
is?" Philip fairly groaned in his despair. "Well,
I shall be there or in New Zealand before the year
is out  there's no help for it !"

A day or two later he had received a rather
enigmatical letter from old Mr. Frere which
brought his visit to a close. Mary remembered

that morning, her hand had not forgotten his
clasp, she could recall his good-bye, his backward
glance, his lifted hat. Old Teddy Maclean smiled
at his going as he had smiled at his coming, and
Miss Mary Anne put on a dingier cap, and said
she had never been so late finishing the spring
cleaning, and they would wash the china in the
drawing-room that very afternoon. Nothing more
was said about their late visitor, till one morning
old Teddy came down to breakfast chuckling over
the discovery that Mr. Frere had made use of them
to keep the young fellow out of the way while he
went to London to get married. The losses
through the silver mine had been exaggerated,
they had served as a convenient pretext for urging
Philip to betake himself to New Zealand or
America. The new Mrs. Frere was a widow with
a limited income  "been after Frere for years'*
said Maclean.

He's an old fool," said Miss Mary Anne,
peering into the teapot.

Well, Master Philip must turn out now," said

Teddy. " The happy pair won't want him hanging
about the place."

And a good thing too 1 The folly of taking
a lad like that to bring up ! I told Robert Frere
my opinion of it years ago. 'You should have
left him to his own people,' I said. ' Nobody buta
born idiot would have saddled himself with the
boy.' He hadn't a word to answer back ; he stood
smiling and looking just as silly as he always did.
But now I'll be bound he's sorry enough he didn't
ask my advice before he took him in."

"Well, perhaps," old Maclean replied. "But
after all the young fellow has been company for
him, company, you know."

"Company! That's all you think of  company
1 I'm not so fond of it, and if I do want
company I like people who can pay their way.
If not, they ought to make themselves useful 
that's my opinion  and be glad to do it. I've no
patience with your Philip, dawdling round the
place with a pipe and a paint box "

It was a cigarette mostly," said Teddy.

"Well, that's worse. More expensive, and
people who can't pay for what they want shouldn't
he expensive. He'll have to come to his senses
now. Company, indeed ! / thought him very
poor company. If you've done your breakfast,
Mary, you might as well run up and get out
those curtains ready for me to look over as soon
as I've spoken to cook."

That was the last that Mary heard of Philip.
She watched for his name, but it was never
mentioned ; she made herself a willing slave to
Miss Mary Anne in the hope of staying on in the
old house where he might some day return, but it
was all in vain. The old lady never kept a companion
for more than half a year. She thought
them moderately satisfactory for two months, she
endured them for two more, and then quarrelled
with them till they left. Poor Mary's time came,
she was driven out of the garden, and thenceforward
there was no chance of further tidings,
only a blackness and silence which seemed to
grow a shade heavier when some one said that

old Teddy was dead, and that his sister had gone
home to Norfolk.

Yet it seemed to Mary that the hardest time to
bear had been the few weeks between the day when
she found herself mistress of what to her was considerable
wealth, and the day when the purchase
of the house and garden was completed. She had
been forced to hide her feelings, Philip had never
said or done anything which would entitle her to
avow them. With a woman's submission to the
laws of propriety she had smiled, and appeared
indifferent, and acquiesced in the lawyer's delays,
though all the while her heart was throbbing in
terror lest some one else should arrive upon the
scene determined to buy the property. She could
not sleep at night ; she nearly fell ill from sheer
anxiety. Why  why did Mr. Eddington make
such a fuss about title and price, when every
moment was a hideous risk ? She sat looking at
him while he explained the progress of the negotiations,
but she could have danced with impatience
and agony on the floor of his office. Someone

else would step in and get the place  some
man who could manage for himself  and she
would be homeless all her life! "Yes, I see,"
she said meekly, " of course you understand these
matters and I don't. It isn't settled yet, then ?
No, of course not. Oh, I see, I'm sure it is quite
right ;" and she smiled and looked down, and
clenched a little hidden hand, as if she would
have driven her nails into the flesh. " Oh, you
idiot  you idiot ! Why don't you pay and have
done with it ? "

And Eddington  poor soul  thought she was
extremely well satisfied with his management of
affairs, as indeed he was himself. He made a
capital bargain for her. Old Brydon was content
with his factory as it was, and young Thomas
Brydon, who might perhaps have influenced him,
was away somewhere in the north. The owner
was anxious to sell, and nobody wanted the old
house and garden except Miss Wynne. Luckily
for her, nobody knew how much she wanted them,
and Eddington, by his delays and his coolness,

effected a considerable abatement in the price
demanded.

Since a change of name had been the condition
attached to her legacy, the garden seemed to Mary
the one link between the present and the past.
Mary Medland existed no longer, but Philip could
find his way, if he would, to the bench under the
acacia, where the milk-white blossoms dropped on
the shaven lawn. There, recovering from her
terrible anxiety, she waited for him. Through
every change of season, through every hour of the
day, the old house was ready for his return. The
world widened as she thought of him. Had he
gone to New Zealand ? to America ? Was there
not even a continent of which she might think
certainly that it held Philip ?

Rivers and mountains seemed to conspire
against that innocent love. Desolate leagues of
forest and plain, desolate leagues of heaving sea,
haunted her imagination with maddening persistency
as she lay awake in her bed. How was she
ever to find him again  how was she even to

think of him in those immense spaces? They
were terrible from their loneliness, but there were
times when she was heartsick with an oppressive
consciousness of the swarming atoms of human
life roaming aimlessly over the vast globe, as
sparks quicken, and run, and die in tinder. So
many hundreds, and thousands, and millions, and
tens of millions of men, and among them  Philip.
So many kindling and fading sparks, and among
them the one wandering point of light which held
all possibilities of brightness and warmth for her.
On stormy nights the beating of the rain on her
window pane told her with dreary iteration of the
cold inhospitality of the heavens. The vagrant
winds rushed by with wild half-human cries, as if
they had caught the prayers and messages of
countless parted souls, and were blending and
rending them in cruel sport, and sweeping them
away into the outer darkness of forgetfulness.
And when morning came, after one of these
troubled nights, the very sun was apt to show a
mocking glance, as if he knew but would not tell,

whether day after day he looked on Philip, or on
Philip's grave.

Philip's grave! Mary was young enough to
turn to that sad thought, and dwell upon it with
passionate despair, but too young to really believe
in its possibility. Philip must come back, would
come back, and would find her waiting. She read
the books he had recommended, she tended the
flowers he had noticed, she lived patiently within
her walled garden. One day, it was a Tuesday
and a working day, she noticed that the great
pulses of the factory were still, and some one said
that it was on account of Mr. Brydon's funeral.
She remembered Mr. Brydon, a little shuffling,
blinking, gray-haired man, who sat not far from
her at church. Dead! She sauntered idly to
and fro, looking up at the wall, blank and blind
behind a tracery of leafless boughs. She was interested
in death, but not in Mr. Brydon.

It was one of those days in February which
are an earnest of spring, like the passing glimpse
of a face beloved, quickening memory and hope.

The borders were dotted with clusters of snowdrops,
the ground was broken here and there
where strong green leaves of daffodils were pushing
upward, the winter violets had a purple bloom
upon them, and in a sunny corner a mezereon
held out its leafless flowering twigs. Mary paced
the gravel path, drawing deep breaths of the soft
air, and feeling the life of spring in her veins. It
seemed to her afterwards that it was the last
peaceful day she was ever to have there.

That one day the looms were still ; and Thomas
Brydon, in his suit of newest black, with crape on
his hat, sat in the mourning-coach, stood by the
grave's edge, with the slow clanging of the bell in
his ears, and did the melancholy honours of a
well spread table at his suburban house. His
insignificance and pallor were shadowed by the
funeral blackness ; he spoke little, but went
through his duties with the utmost decorum,
carving for his guests, taking wine with his
uncle's old friends, and listening to their anecdotes
of the dead man. The company dispersed,

unanimous on two points, that the sherry was
good  old Brydon's sherry always was  and that
the young fellow wasn't going to set the Thames
on fire.

But the next morning he was at the factory ina
shabby coat, with his hands thrust deeply into
his pockets, glancing here and there with brilliant
eyes, and showing an unexpected familiarity with
every detail of the business. Before the day was
out he appeared in Eddington's office, inquiring
whether Miss Wynne would be willing to sell her
house and garden. He was prepared to offer hera
liberal price.

Eddington communicated with his client, and
wrote a negative answer. Miss Wynne did not
wish to part with her property.

Brydon apparently acquiesced, but he began to
make a stir in the town about the disgraceful
condition of Garden Lane, and three courts that
led out of it. Some six or seven cottages were
his own property. These were by no means the
worst, take them altogether they were perhaps

the best, and yet, as he honestly owned, they were
bad enough. He wrote a letter to the local paper,
pointing out the hideous overcrowding which was
a shame to a civilised place. Miss Wynne read
the letter, heard some of the talk that ensued, and
felt her brick wall no better than the flimsiest
veil between herself and the appalling indecency
of the lane. She seemed to see through it, and
felt sick with horror in the shadow of her cedars.
Even when she lay down at night in the cool
purity of her wide dim room, where rustling leaf
sprays garlanded her windows, she could not sleep
for thinking of those foul little dens to which
fathers and brothers came stumbling from the
public-houses. A breath of uncleanness tainted
her very dreams.

And she could do nothing  she had not an
inch of property beyond her garden wall. If only
some one else would do something, and let her
subscribe !

Brydon reappeared in Mr. Eddington's office.
They had met pretty often in the interval, and

the young man was more conversational. He
spoke of the interest which had been excited by
his letter to the Brenthill Guardian. "But it's
very little good," he said. " Plenty of talk, but
something must be done."

Something ought to be done," Eddington
admitted.

The mill-owner got up and stood on the rug.
"Do you know what I've come for?" he said,
looking down.

Well, I can guess," Mr. Eddington replied.

I must have that garden. I want to build some
decent houses. I can't take ' No ' for an answer."

The other smiled doubtfully.

Look here ! " Brydon exclaimed, sitting down
on a corner of the office-table. " I'm going to tell
you exactly how the matter stands."

He did so at length, and yet with an amazing
directness and simplicity. When he had explained
his position he named the precise sum he offered
for the garden. " It is more than it is worth, but
I am prepared to give it, under the circumstances.

Infernally unlucky for me that Miss Wynne has
got hold of it  pity the people who left her the
money didn't live a little longer ! But that can't
be helped, and I must just give a fancy price
since I can't buy it at a fair one. Beyond this I
can't go  you must see that for yourself."

I see," said the other, and to himself he added,
I should think you couldn't !" The young man's
frankness and liberality startled him.

Then you will speak to Miss Wynne about it ?"

Certainly  certainly."

Thomas Brydon looked straight at him. After
a moment's silence, " Shall you advise her to
accept it ?" he said.

*' Yes. Yes, I shall advise her to accept it."

That's all right then." And the young fellow
got off the corner of the table, and looked about
for his hat.

I'm not so sure," said Eddington, but the
discouraging words were accompanied by an encouraging
smile. For Mr. Eddington was tolerably
sure. Miss Wynne had always behaved as if she

considered him an oracle. "She's a sensible
young woman," he said to himself, as he went off
to tell her of Thomas Brydon's offer, and to
explain to her, in his best paternal manner, that
she had better say " Yes."

But the foolish young woman said " No." She
did not want any offers  did not want to part
with her house. She was very much distressed,
but she said more than once that it was impossible
impossible. Would he please tell Mr Brydon ?
She hoped there was some other piece of ground
which would do as well for the cottages he wanted
to build.

He doesn't think there is  luckily," said the
lawyer.

Brydon was indignant, incredulous, bewildered.
In the first shock of his disappointment he took
the whole town into his confidence, almost as
completely as he had taken Mr. Eddington, and
without meaning any harm he set everybody
talking about Mary Wynne. The unlucky girl
felt as if she were living under a microscope. She

WHY NOT ? 81

did not blame Brydoii for his thoughtlessness. It
did not even occur to lier sweet submissive soul
that he might have screened her had he tried ; she
accepted this uncomfortable publicity as the
natural result of her own obstinacy, and lived
resignedly in a Babel of argument. Some people
thought she was right. Most people were sure
she was wrong. Everybody knew better than she
did. The vicar, and a good many ladies of his
congregation, felt that a young woman ought to
take advice, and ought not to stand in the way of
a public improvement, and an increase of fortune
evidently intended by Providence. Young Haldane
and one or two more rejoiced in the rebuff to
Bry don's over-confidence. Other young fellows
thought Mary a fool for not taking advantage of
the mill-owner's hobby. One and all had something
to say about it.

Mary herself minded nothing, not even the
good advice, so much as the humorous commendation
of some elderly gentlemen, who professed to
find her an amazingly clever woman of business.

VOL. I. G

They would ask her, with intense appreciation of
their own wit, to suggest investments for their
superfluous cash. "Miss Wynne knows a good
tiling when she sees it," they would say, "but
there's no getting anything out of her, she's so
uncommon close." "Quite right too," another
would chime in ; " she wouldn't have done so well
for herself if she'd chattered to you. She knew
better, didn't you. Miss Wynne ? " And one perhaps
would add, in more serious kindliness,
Never you mind them, my dear, you can't do
better than stick to Eddington. He knows what
he's about  he'll get you a good price. You are
quite right not to be in a hurry. Ladies so often
are, and it's a great mistake."

Mary was glad when Mr. Eddington proposed
to bring Brydon to her little tennis party. It was
like coming face to face With the enemy after a
series of rumours and alarms. If only she could
muster up courage to tell him plainly that his
persistent offers were useless, that she never could
accept them ! If only she could say this once for

all, and then bar the door against him, and against
the thought of Garden Lane !

Well, he had been and he had gone, and what
had come of it ? Nothing but a promise that she
should not be molested for the remainder of the
year, a promise which was only a continual silent
proffer of his terms, from which she could not
escape for a moment, look which way she would.
Nothing else, unless it were a keener sense of the
shame, and squalor, and obscure misery that
surrounded her. It seemed to her that night that
she was actually denied in by a rising tide of
hate and nameless sin, that it was seething and
swelling in the lanes about her house, that it was
only by a strenuous effort of her will that she
maintained the barriers which guarded her, as if
she were thrusting with her weak woman's hands
against a yielding door, and fearing to see evil
faces rising above the wall. She drew back from
the window, scared by the freaks of her overwrought
imagination. If Philip would but come
quickly, quickly, to relieve her of her guardianship !

Eddington received the notice of the compact
between Brydon and Miss Wynne with good-humoured
contempt. " It's not to be mentioned
to her again," said the young man, with the
authoritative manner which he usually reserved
for the factory. " Not a word more about it."

The lawyer laughed. " As you please," he said,
but you would do better to talk it over."

Talk it over ! " cried Brydon. " Haven't we
talked it over ?"

Yes. Take my advice and do it again."

What's the use ? We've talked it to death. I've
no more to say, and she's sick of the whole concern."

"So much the better for you," Wellington replied
astutely. "You are throwing away your
best chance."

Brydon considered the question from this point
of view. "/ don't think so'' he said slowly. *rand
if I am I can't help it. I can't set to work to worry
a woman out of her determination. Let her be."

Well," said Eddington, " you think you know
best, so there's no more to be said."

That's it, exactly," Brydon agreed, and nodded
a farewell.

Perhaps all the town was sick of the subject
too. It was curious to note how utterly it was
dropped as the summer went on, as if it had been
finally settled at the tennis party that the millowner
was worsted. Miss Wynne could go where
she pleased and hardly hear a remark. Even
Eddington's enforced silence became natural, so
soon did he cease to trouble himself about the
business. It was a failure, and he put it aside,
having other things to think of.

Brydon talked no more about cottages. He

took his rents for such of the unwholesome tenements
as belonged to him, and went backwards
and forwards through Garden Lane with an indifference
which appeared to be complete. Once,
about three weeks after the tennis party, he saw
Miss Wynne, who had just stepped out of her
garden, a little in advance of him. She had a
nosegay in her hand, and was herself a delicate
and flower-like presence in the unsavoury little
thoroughfare. Brydon slackened this pace, but she
looked back, recognised him, bowed, blushed, and
then, as if moved by a sudden impulse, gave the
flowers to an old woman standing near, and fled.

The mill-owner came lounging up, nodded to
old Mrs. Humphreys, and stopped short. Mrs.
Humphreys was examining her acquisition rather
doubtfully, clutching the stems in one unclean
hand, while with the other she hitched her cap on
one side and scratched her head. She was not an
agreeable old lady to look at, dirt seemed to be
not an accident but an essential part of her, and
the black net cap was in the last stage of discoloration

and decay. If it had fallen off, it is
questionable whether, even in Garden Lane, anybody
but Mrs. Humphreys would have cared topick
it up. It would have found its right place
in the gutter, but at present it was exalted on Mrs.
Humphreys's head, and looked decidedly drunk.

Brydon considered the old woman's dingy
wrinkles, the red-rimmed eyes, the streaks of gray
hair on her forehead, the half-fastened gown, and
the pale sweet petals of the roses. " You've got
some pretty flowers there," he said.

"Pretty enough," Mrs. Humphreys replied.
"She give 'em me," nodding in the direction of
Mary Wynne's flight. " They're well enough for
gentlefolks."

Well, they're sweet for all of us, aren't they ?"

I daresay." She thrust her nose among the
tea-scented blossoms. " They're well enough, but
give me a bit of old man  that's what I like; or a
bunch of walls." Brydon wondered whether there
was any touch of sentiment in these preferences.
Could it be possible that Mrs. Humphreys long

ago had put bits of soutliernwood in her prayer-book,
or in the buttonhole of a Sunday swain ?
It might be, but he found the idea hideous.

There was another disparaging sniff at the
roses. " She might have give me a copper or two
just a copper or two to get a little tea "

Gin," Brydon corrected.

Apparently the old lady did not catch the
word. She paused, looking at him, but he did
not repeat it. "Lor!" she went on, "tea's a
wonderful comfort, but flowers ain't no good. I
can't go selling' 'em, like those brazen-faced little
hussies who run about the streets with 'em, not
near as good as these, and won't take an answer.
God bless you for a kind gentleman, sir, you've a
feeling' 'art, you 'ave, and the Lord grant you may
never know what it is to want a shilling' !"

Brydon scowled as he took the roses. "A
pore woman's blessing' '11 never hurt you," Mrs.
Humphreys called after him as he walked away
looking at his prize. He had hated to see the
delicate freshly-blown things in foul hands, but

he had come too late ; they were degraded, they
sickened him, they smelt of Mrs. Humphreys.
And, after all, Miss Wynne had meant to leave
them in Garden Lane. " Here ! take them ! " he
said, and flung them to some of the dirty little
children who were screaming at each other in the
gutter.

He never attempted to see or speak to Miss
Wynne, choosing to consider the merest greeting
from him as part of the molestation which he had
promised should cease. But on Sundays, after
duly looking into the crown of his hat, his first
glance was always towards her pew, a swift, penetrating,
furtive glance. When it was withdrawn
he felt that her eyes were upon him, and he
tingled with the knowledge. Was it with a sense
of battle ? It might be, for it was strange how
intense the consciousness of the silent question
between them had become. Now that it was
pent in their two hearts they seemed to be drawn
together by the very obstinacy of their antagonism,
like men who clutch each other in a death struggle.

Sunday after Sunday she studied Brydon's resolute
air of indifference, and felt the purpose that lay
below. Sunday after Sunday he noted a difference
in her. Presently people began to say that Miss
Wynne was not looking well, perhaps she wanted
a change. Her face was smaller and whiter, the
sweet mouth a little tremulous. To Brydon it
seemed that she was failing in some mysterious
way, and yet not yielding, as if some third person
had come into their duel and upheld her weakness.
Brydon grew fierce in his determination to overcome
this invisible opponent. He, as it were,
divined Philip, and measured himself against him,
thrusting the woman aside. She meanwhile was
haunted day and night by spectres from Garden
Lane, till she fancied that all the air was poisoned
by the breath of their foul sties.

It was September and the days were shortening,
and the hint of coming change was on the heavily-leaved
trees. Brydon waylaid Eddington one day,
shook hands abstractedly, and in the middle of
commonplaces about the weather put a pointblank

question : " Isn't Miss Wynne going to the
seaside or somewhere this autumn?"

Eeally," said the lawyer, " I haven't the least
idea."

Well, I wish she would  in fact, I wish you'd
speak to her about it."

Eddington arched his brows, and looked at his
neat nails. "My good fellow," he said, "Miss
WjTine is of age. I'm her lawyer, but I'm not
her guardian. Her arrangements are no business
of mine, and I was under the impression that they
were no business of yours."

"Well  they are. Look here, some of the
drains in the lane must be opened ; it ought to
have been done before, but they've been waiting
as long as possible on account of the heat. It
seems, however, that matters have come to a
crisis, and they'll begin on Wednesday."

Thanks for the hint. I'll give your delightful
property a wide berth."

You'd better," grinned Brydon. " It might
be sweeter than it is at the best of times, when

we let sleeping smells lie, but when we stir 'em

up ! Well, you'll just mention the matter to

Miss Wynne ; she'd better go away for a few days.
Don't want to give her a fever, you know."

"I'll speak to her  yes. What's to-day 
Saturday ? Yes, I'll look in this evening."

Miss Wynne was grateful, but she took the
warning pensively. " Is Mr. Brydon going away ? "
she inquired.

He  oh no 1 He'll be sure to be about."

"Ah, yes, I suppose so. And what will become
of the poor people in the cottages ? "

Oh, well, you know, I don't fancy they'll think
much about it. A little worse than usual, that's
all they'll notice  accustomed to it, you see. And
I'm afraid they can't all arrange to go out visiting.
But it won't be for long."

I see. Thank you so much for coming to tell
me, Mr. Eddington." Then, with innocent artfulness,
Miss Wynne slid into the discussion of some
local topic peculiarly interesting to the lawyer,
and dismissed him without any definite answer.

He did not notice this, and even if he had, he
would hardly have pressed for one ; she was duly-warned,
and of course would take all necessary
precautions. But when he reached his own gate
he was aware of a red spark wandering to and fro
in the mild September dusk ; Brydon was smoking
his evening cigar in the shadow of his friend's
laburnums and limes, and impatiently awaiting
his return.

Is it all right ?" he demanded. " Did you see
her?"

Yes, I saw her  yes, of course it's all right.
I told her it oughtn't be very pleasant in her
garden for the next ten days or so, nor very
healthy, and she'd better go away for a little
change."

Yes ! And she said she would ?"

Oh, of course she will. I say, Brydon, did
you hear about the squabble there was at the
Mechanics' Institute to-day? Disgraceful, isn't
it ? I wish we had you on the committee "

No,  but did she say she would go ?"

His companion stared at the dimly seen face
and paused, bewildered. " Say it ? I don't know
that she said it in so many words."

"What did she say?"

Eddington, yielding to the other's absurd persistence,
threw a backward light over his memory
of the interview. " Asked if you were going away
too  and what would be done with all the people
in the lane  and then, what did we talk of ?'"

Brydon interrupted him. '' She won't go."

"Oh yes, surely she will. Why on earth
not?"

I tell you she won't," the young man repeated.
"Because she knows we want her to,
very likely ;" and he murmured " ' Quite contrary,'
" with a harsh little laugh.

Very well," said Eddington cheerfully. " She
knows all about it now. Let her stay at home if
she won't go."

You haven't half done it ; you should have
told her she midst!'

And have her laugh in my face ! No, thank

you, I've had enough of this business. I've known
a good many obstinate and impracticable young
people  a good many  " Eddington smiled reflectively,
"but you and Miss Wynne beat all.
Very likely she won't go  I daresay you are
right. You neither of you know what is good
for you, or, if you do, you act as if you didn't.
Miss Wynne won't listen to advice, and you lull
advise her and ivonH speak to her. Very good,
only find another messenger."

Brydon threw the end of his cigar away. " As
you please," he said, after a pause, in a hesitating
voice. " I suppose I can't do any more, I don't
see that I can. It was only because I heard
somebody say Miss Wynne wasn't looking well
thought she wanted change. Well, you know,
anybody like that  a little below jar, you know
might be just ready to take typhoid fever, don't
you think? I don't fancy the drains will hurt
me, I shall go home to sleep, too  and I don't
think they'll hurt old Mrs. Humphreys. She 7iiay
find out there's an extra smell, and she'll think

the whole business very unnecessary. So will
they all, and they'll all go round the corner to
the * Hand and Flower ' rather more than usual.
But I thought there was just a possibility that

Miss Wynne " He stopped short and made

no attempt to finish the sentence, though there
was a brief silence.

"Confound you!" said Eddington. "Well,
this once more, then. I'll write Miss Wynne a line."

An astounding idea had just crossed his mind.
Was it possible that Brydon took an interest in
Mary Wynne apart from her possession of the
coveted plot of ground ? Something in his voice
suggested it, and yet, could it be? It might
smooth all difficulties if it were so, but Eddington
almost laughed aloud at the idea of a courtship
carried on by means of the Garden Lane drains
and the family lawyer. Surely true love never
ran so strange a course before ! " Yes, I'll write
a line," he repeated.

It was a neat little note in his legal hand.
After due apologies for troubling her a second

time lie ventured to urge her not to expose herself
to any danger. " I am much older than you," he
wrote, " and I hope the fact may be my excuse for
offering my advice. It would be kind of you if
you would console me for having lived all these
additional years by pretending to believe that
they have gifted me with a little wisdom, as well
as rheumatism and other troubles. I am not
disposed to exaggerate the risk you would run
by staying at home for the next few days. 1
think myself that though real it would be small,
but, however small it may be, it is certainly
useless, and Mr. Brydon  who perhaps fancies
himself somewhat responsible  is very uneasy
about it. Pray give us the satisfaction of feeling
that you are out of harm's way.

I believe I once heard you talk of Salthaven.
I have a cousin staying there now who thinks ita
charming place, bracing and very healthy. If
you cared to go there, and she could be of any
service in securing rooms, or making any arrangements,
I know she would be delighted."

VOL. I. H

Eddington sent his letter by a messenger early
on Sunday morning, and Miss Wynne read it and
re-read it as she sat at breakfast. The appeal
distressed her. It made a refusal to leave Brent-hill
seem like an act of wilful folly, and yet she
was conscious of a strong reluctance to yield.
She had a feeling, foolish but very feminine, that
if by her determination to keep the garden she
doomed the inhabitants of the lane to continue in
their filth and squalor, she ought at least to share
their perils. If any one were to take typhoid
fever, Miss Wynne felt it a point of honour to
sicken with it too, if possible. September that
year happened to be sultry, heavy aired, and
rainless, and the suggestion of Salthaven breezes,
blowing over the crisp waves, and the wide,
wet sands, came with inviting freshness to her
thoughts. But there could be no sea-air for Mrs.
Humphreys and the rest.

Tor a more personal reason Miss Wynne was
loth to go. It seemed to her that if once she
suffered herself to be thrust out of her fortress

she might never return to it. It was a fancy, no
doubt, but she was languid and overwrought and
her brain was ripe for fancies. Or Philip would
come while she was away and not find her 
would be shut out of his garden ! No, she would
not go.

She went to church with a dreary sense of
weakness upon her, but she plucked up courage
enough to meet Brydon's eyes defiantly, after
which interchange of glances both he and she
were preternaturally intent upon their books, and
unconscious of each other. But when the service
was over, and the congregation rustled slowly
down the aisles. Miss Wynne, though she gazed
straight before her, with partially lowered eyelids,
felt that Brydon was at her elbow, moving with
her step by step in the crowd. As they passed
out of the porch into the open air and sunshine
he spoke.

How d'ye do. Miss Wynne ? Fine day, isn't
it?"

"Oh, how d'ye do? Yes, very fine, but I

thought early this morning it looked as if we
might be going to have some rain."

"T shouldn't be sorry," said Brydon, "though
I suppose the holiday-makers wouldn't care for it.
Going anywhere this autumn ?"

"N  no, I think not," Miss Wynne replied,
putting up her sunshade, but she must have looked
at him out of the corner of her eye, for she was
aware that his cool indifference suddenly broke up
like ice in spring. The reflection of the red-lined
parasol glowed on her delicate skin.

No r he said. " How's that ?"

Oh, I don't know. I like home best. It
isn't as if one lived in London, you know ; I don't
feel as if I wanted any change."

'that's nonsense. You know you ought to go."

She inspected the carved handle of her parasol,
and the slim light-coloured kid fingers which
clasped it, but said nothing.

You know you ought," he reiterated.

She still was silent, pressing her lips together.

"And, upon my honour," Brydon continued

in a low voice, " I believe you won't go because I
have urged it ! The other time, when you said
you had a good reason for refusing me  about the
garden, you know  I didn't doubt you. I am
sure you have. But what reason have you now ?
None. I have asked it  that is all  and you will
not do it heccmse I have asked it !"

She turned her face towards him in the red
shadow of her slanted parasol. " Yes," she said,
you are right." He had meant what he said, and
yet this strange avowal startled him to speechlessness,
though a curious wave of expression passed
over the clearness of his gray eyes.

"I da7'e not do it," she said after a moment.
Do not ask me again."

"Why dare not V

'' If once I yield," she hesitated, " I feel that it
will be the beginning of the end."

''I don't see why. Things will be just the
same when you come back. Do you expect to
find me throwing up earthworks all over your
lawn ? "

She smiled faintly.

'' Very well," said Brydon, still in the same low
voice. " You must go, so tell me what you want
me to say or do. What will satisfy yon ? "

His lips, his eyes were on a level with hers,
and their speech had a singular directness. " No
no," she whispered, drawing back a step. '' You
need not say anything. I will go."

Ah, here is Eddington," murmured the young
man.

Mr. Eddington was the vicar's churchwarden.
He stepped out of the porch, carrying a miraculously
thin umbrella, and having an indescribable
air of Sunday about hun. He shook hands with
Miss Wynne. " I hope you had my note ?"

She had regained enough of her gentle calm to
answer with a smile. " Thank you so much. I
think I will go to Salthaven ; I was just saying
so to Mr. Brydon."

There ! " said the old gentleman. " I knew
you would. But this stupid fellow had taken it
into his head you wouldn't."

"You know Miss Wynne better, you see,"
Brydon replied.

"Yes. But upon my word, Miss Wynne, I
was obliged to trouble you a second time, for he
was getting desperate. I don't know what he
might not have done between this and Wednesday.
We might have had him setting the place
on fire  burning you out of house and home, and
rescuing you in the dead of night, just to get rid of
you  eh, Brydon?"

"I'm glad you rescued me from that," said
Mary. "Your note was better."

Brydon coloured, looking angrily at the smiling
churchwarden. " I'll say good-bye," he exclaimed
with some abruptness, and took his leave accordingly.


"He doesn't like being laughed at," said
Eddington, glancing after him. "But upon my
word it was almost true  he was so determined
you should go, and yet so persuaded you wouldn't.
I can't think what made him take such a notion
into his head ; I told him he was wrong. But

he's amazingly obstinate. Now can my cousin do
anything for you at Salthaven ? "

Mary Wynne was never quite sure what she
had authorised Miss Eddington to do on her behalf.
She agreed to everything the lawyer proposed,
and she perfectly remembered that he
talked about the Salthaven hotel, and said either
that it was extremely bad or extremely good.
Apparently she was listening to him as she stood
at the pavement's edge, in her light summer dressa
slight, dainty figure, with the sunny rose-colour
lighting her pale cheeks, but in reality she was
absorbed in a curiously intense perception of the
idea which Eddington had laughingly suggested a
few moments earlier. The blue sky, the birds
flying overhead, the church porch, the stones on
which she stood, the stream of well-dressed people,
even the neat elderly gentleman who faced her,
were less real to her than the vision and sound of
a moonless night, gusty and black, a sudden
bewildering terror, an uproar of horror in the
labyrinth of lanes, a crackling sound, a gathering

clamour, a burst of roaring flame, and then through
the murky heat and crashing noise, Brydon's face,
Brydon's eyes, Brydon's outstretched hands. She
shivered helplessly as she stood, looking up at
Mr. Eddington, but seeing all her dream of Philip,
all her happy garden fancies, drifting away across
a broad glare of fire in heavy clouds of smoke.
The fancy was absurd of course, and yet there
was something in it which grasped and held
her as if it were true. "I'm sure that will be
very nice," she said with a sweet smile. " I shall
be so much obliged to Miss Eddington." But
when she went home she looked musingly at the
old house.

'the gray sea and the long black land."

Mary Wynne liked Salthaven very well. It was
not ambitious, it did not pretend to anything
startling in the way of scenery, or other attractions.
It described itseK in the Salthaven Advertiser
as " select." That meant that railway did
not come within nine miles of it, and that a couple
of omnibuses conveyed such visitors as did not
hire carriages from Deep well station.

It was a quiet little place, simple, leisurely, not
in the newest fashion. Before it lay its level
semicircle of waves and wet sands, behind it a
gentle sloping of green meadows, which Salthaven

people called hills. There was an esplanade to
walk on, and a strip of green, and a jetty. A
band came from Deep well two evenings in the
week, and all the Salthaven visitors strolled up
and down and listened to it. On these occasions,
what with the strains of music, and the smell of
cigars and trampled grass, the little place felt
itself quite dissipated.

Mary Wynne walked up and down with Miss
Eddington. The latter was a bright, rather elderly
young lady, who enjoyed all the occupations
provided for her at Salthaven. She went every
morning to a little service in the new little
church, and then to the shore, where she bathed
from one of the little machines which crawled
across the expanse of shining sand. She read
quantities of novels from the circulating library,
she picked up shells and seaweeds, she did fancy
work, and was always brightly ready for a little
drive, or a little walk, or above all a little stroll
on the esplanade by moonlight. Miss Eddington
would have liked a moon always, and she was full

of regret that it was waning when Mary came.
It had been so perfect on the water. She thought
the band delightful, and made little romances to
fit the people who passed and repassed to its
music and the washing of the waves.

She was livelier than Mary, who would sometimes
sit silent for an hour or more, hardly turning
a leaf of her book, while she gazed out to sea.
Mary had her own romance, and when a far-off
sail rose white on the horizon and vanished again
she would let her fancy fly  who could tell that
Philip might not be looking towards the shore
from beneath those snowy wings ? Sometimes it
was just a low trailing cloud of smoke, that came
and went, blotting the silver clearness of sky and
sea, but it was all the same  white sail or dull
smoke might be bearing Philip on his way, and
her heart sank within her when ship after ship
passed, outward bound, gliding in distant procession
across the shining floor.

Yet even these moments of fanciful sadness
were brighter and better than thoughts of Garden

Lane, not to be blown away by all the Salthaven
breezes. Wholesome it might be to fill one's
lungs with pure sea-scented air, but imagination
grew sick meanwhile in the odours that steamed
from the turning of foul soil under an obstinately
rainless sky. There was a little paragraph in the
Brenthill Guardian, which demanded a large share
of those seaside meditations. It was a mere six-pennyworth,
by the penny-aliter's reckoning, but
it revealed the fact that there had already been
fever a fortnight or three weeks earlier in one of
the courts. It made Mr. Brydon's anxiety more
intelligible.

Well, it was not her fault. Even if she had
consented to part with her garden the moment
she was asked, he could not have built his new
houses by that time. No, it was not actually her
fault, but in intention it was. She knew very
well that the owners of Garden Lane would do
nothing for their property that they could not be
compelled to do, that Brydon with his five or six
scattered cottages was powerless, and that she had

decided that the wretched tenants of the lane
should stay where they were. Suppose there
should be an outbreak of typhus fever at her gate !
Suppose Mr. Brydon took it and died ! Suppose
the cholera came ! " They ought to take me out of
my house and hang me ! " said Mary to herself.

Oh, it was hard  hard ! It was the one spot
of earth on which her heart was set, the only spot,
it seemed to her, where she could live. And
Providence had so strangely, so miraculously,
given her her secret desire, only for Brydon to
come in the name of the poor, and lay hands
upon it and claim it as a sacrifice. He never
would know the meaning of his demand. He
was asking her to sell her love !

And, after all, was she certain that it was the
best thing to do, even for those poor wretches in
the lane? Ten or fifteen years hence might
not Brydon regret that he had not established his
colony at Holly Hill ? Perhaps he might even
move it there, and leave the densely peopled
neighbourhood without its one sweet patch of

green. Nothing could bring that back, but it
would live for a while in the memories of the old
folks thereabout, and she perhaps would live with
it, as the woman who made her money by selling
it for building ground. People just as good as
Thomas Brydon would execrate her. If only the
property had fallen into better hands, they would
say, it might have been saved, and perhaps finally
secured for the poor.

But in the meantime there was this fever
spectre at her very gates !

Sooner than dwell on the subject in silence she
broached it in an airy and general manner in a
conversation on the sands. She effaced a capital
B which she had drawn with the point of her
parasol, and tried to find out what Miss Eddington
knew about typhus fever and drains.

Miss Eddington's mind was not singular  that
is to say, it ran naturally to the exciting and the
terrible. "Oh, have you been reading some of
those dreadful horrors in the papers ? " she said,
and forthwith told of a case she knew, where

there was an outbreak of typhus fever in a house,
in consequence of defective drainage. " Poor Mr.
Morling died, and the eldest boy, a dear little
fellow home for his holidays. And poor Mrs.
Morling  such a sweet woman  well, she didn't
die, but she was dreadfully ill, and had to have
all her hair cut off, and was left a widow with
four little children. Such beautiful hair! You
never saw such beautiful hair  I'm not exaggerating,
it came down to her knees. She used to say
she believed Mr. Morling fell in love with her for
that, he had such a passion for beautiful hair.
Of course that was nonsense. I'm siu-e any one
might have fallen in love with her without that 
or with very little of it," said Miss Eddington,
unable apparently to imagine an attachment to
the absolutely bald. "But it was lovely, and
really I hardly knew her when I saw her with it
all cut short under a widow's cap."

She stopped doubtfully, perceiving that she
ought to have taken a different view of the matter.
There was a curious look on Miss Wynne's face.

SALTHAVEN 113

Was it possible that she was anxious about Mr.
Brydon's hair ? Miss Eddington was not aware of
Mr. Brydon's existence, but she saw that something
was wrong. " Of course," she said hurriedly,
a great many people don't die of typhus fever 
I mean, you know, very few people have it at
all  quite a small percentage, isn't it ?" She tried
to think of one or two encouraging examples, but
the people who didn't have typhus fever seemed
so vague and uninteresting compared to Mrs.
Morling of the golden locks that she was obliged
to give them up. "You never had it yourself,
had you ?" she asked finally. The question seemed
not only safe, but likely to throw light on the
cause of these inquiries.

Mary said, " Never !" so that it sounded exactly
as if she wished she had. But after a moment
she remarked in what was meant for a casual way,
They've got it at Brenthill."

"Oh!" exclaimed Miss Eddington; '' luhat a
mercy you are safely out of the way ! "

Is it ? I feel rather like a deserter."

VOL. I. I

"Oil! But  but  " this hesitatingly and respectfully.
" Do you mean  would you nurse, or
anything?"

Mary drooped in bitter consciousness of helplessness.
"They wouldn't let me. And I don't
believe I should be a bit of good."

Then you are much better here."

The air of decision was so encouraging that
Mary appealed to this oracle for counsel. " What
should you do if people wanted to persuade you
to do something you disliked very much, and you
were not quite sure whether they were right or not ?"

"I shouldn't do what I didn't like unless I
were quite sure they were right."

Xot if you were almost quite sure  only a
few people said they were not, and you wished so
much they oughtn't be ?"

The explanation might have been more lucid,
but Miss Eddington listened with great intensity.
Is it very important ?" she asked.

Very. If I ought to do it, it would be very
wicked of me if I didn't."

Miss Addington considered for a moment, and
then, " I think you feel you ought !" she announced
suddenly. She was not without acuteness.

No," said Mary, " I almost wish I did. Then
it would be settled. But I don't feel sure  I can't."

You can't really tell which is right ? "

No. I'm quite sure I shall reproach myself,
whichever I do."

"It's difficult," said the other, knitting her
brows. She picked up a little pebble, and threw
it in a general fashion towards the ocean. "I
should consult somebody to whom I could explain
the whole thing ; somebody who could speak with
authority, you know. Then I should feel I had
done my best."

Mary shook her head.

Her companion put on an air of solemnity 
she was thinking of a neat little musical curate at
the new church. " If you are really in such perplexity,"
she said, " there is always "

"No, no  indeed there isn't; I couldn't!" said
Mary, pink as a sea-shell.

Miss Wellington saw that her suggestion was
useless. " Well," she concluded, " If I didn't know
what was right, and felt so uncomfortable about
it, and couldn't ask anybody, I should do what I
disliked most. I should feel it was safest."

This view commended itself to the tender
feminine conscience, eager to deaden painful
doubts with penance. Mary was silent for sometime,
brooding over the thought, looking straight
before her from under half-dropped eyelids. Yes,
if she gave up her garden she might surely feel
that no selfish motive had decided her conduct.
She could never hold up her head before Philip,
if they met in later days, because Philip could
never know how much she had suffered ; but
surely she need know no shame in her secret
thoughts, where shame is bitterest.

Miss Hillier had wished that her artist friend
could paint a picture of Mary Wynne, standing
in the walled sweetness of her garden. But his
picture might have been better still if he could
have seen the poor Guardian Genius as she sat at

sundown on those barren sands, leaning forward,
with her hands clasped loosely about her knees,
and her eyes fixed on the low far-off waves
over which the autumnal day was fading. Miss
Eddington, respecting her companion's meditations,
had strolled a little towards the west, and
her darkly-defined figure wandered here and there,
poking with a parasol at such wonders of the
deep as happened to have been washed ashore by
the last tide. Mary had forgotten Miss Eddington
; she was gazing fixedly at the renunciation of
all her dreams, she was picturing herself homeless
and solitary, cast out of Eden into oh, how desolate
a world ! " I wish I had never been able to buy
the garden!" she thought. "But I will give it
up  I will give it up  unless anything happens
before I leave Salthaven. JSTiue days more before
my three weeks are over  something may happen
in nine days." Her fancy roved among possibilities.
Mr. Brydon might change his plans.
Some one might die, and leave him money enough
to start his factory at Holly Hill at once. Or

they might find that the cottages in Garden Lane
must all be pulled down, and he might buy the
whole site, and build tall houses instead of those
miserable little hovels. Or might not help come
in some other way? She did not turn her head
to right or left, and yet, without shaping her
thought, she felt that at any moment  now  or
now  or now !  Philip might appear, with no
sound of steps on the dead sand, walking in the
evening light between her eyes and the low rolling
tide. Oh, if he did ! He should answer Mr.
Brydon, and save the garden he loved.

Don't you think you ought to be going in ?"
Miss Eddington gently inquired. " I don't know
what time you ordered your tea, but I said I'd
have mine at half-past six." Mary Wynne rose
obediently, and went to her tea, leaving the waves
to roll in through the gathering obscurity.

Brydon, meanwhile, took an almost morbid interest
in the work that was going on in the lane.
Digging revealed horrors  a little modern work,
slight, scamped, pretentious, which had completely

broken down, and hideous accumulations stored
and left in their indescribable blackness. It
seemed to Brydon as if men had choked and
sickened the kindly earth with filth  could it ever
be wholesome and clean again? The labourers
who plied pick and shovel stopped to spit, and to
apply foul adjectives to their foul job.

The business went on briskly day by day
under the long wall, which was steeped from end
to end in the ripe autumn warmth. Above its
mellowed bricks red rose-shoots took the sun, and
flourished lightly in the still air. At night, for
the nights were misty and moonless, a red lantern
red as if it glimmered through brooding miasma
tied on crossed bits of wood, announced where
danger lay to home-comers from the " Hand and
Flower." Brydon saw the scene under all aspects ;
apart from any businesslike interest in it, it
seemed to fascinate him. He would loiter at a
little distance, and gaze at the wall with a doubtful
expression. He was moody, haggard, irritable.
One night as he went slowly homeward from his

office, smoking his cigar, lie paused in Garden
Lane, and uttered a fierce ejaculation under his
breath. " By God ! " he said. " "mien it comes
to the point, I'm no more to be depended on than
the rest!"

Eddington told him he looked ill. The millowner
answered with an inarticulate sound,
conveying scorn, and stood with a hang-dog expression,
biting his nails. " You'd better run
dora to Salthaven too," said the good-humoured
old gentleman. "You're overdoing it  overdoing
it. A little sea-air would do you all the good in
the world  your own prescription, you know."

There was a momentary flash in Brydon's
shadowed eyes. " Thanks," he said with a deliberate
drawl ; " I don't think Salthaven air would
agree with me. At any rate I'll be worse  a good
deal worse before I try it."

Very good, only don't hang about that sweet
lane of yours too much. Dixon tells me he'd no
notion what a state the place was in "

It's pretty bad,"

SALTHAVEN 121

Upon my word," the other smiled, " I think
from your point of view you had better have let
Miss Wynne stay at home."

'' On the chance of killing her off and treating
with her executors  there's something in that."

No, but to let her hear about it. She can't
realise it out there in the fresh air."

You're right," said Brydon. " She can't."

My cousin says she thinks Miss Wynne looks
better, but she strikes her as being very delicate,"
the other went on. " I hope not  I hope not.
She may not be a very wise young woman, but
she's a very nice one."

Brydon went away with something to think of.
Very delicate." Yes, very likely. Probably
that meant that if she were uprooted she would
feel it acutely  perhaps die. Mary Wynne had
begun to teach him the meaning of the old
garden. He found himself unable to imagine her
apart from it ; all the beautiful life which had
been fostered through many generations within its
walls seemed to him to have blossomed in her.

He had come to Brentliill with his head too full
of schemes for enlarging his business, and benefiting
the workers in his factory, to have time to
think much about women. Philanthropy, according
to Brydon, had to be made to pay, and required
to be sharply looked after. He would
neither rob others of their wages nor forego his
own. He was deaf to all distant cries for help ;
earthquakes, colliery explosions, Indian famines,
fires, could not extract a halfpenny from his
pocket ; the facts were sad, but they were not in
his department, and he was not, as he bluntly
said, either big enough or fool enough to undertake
the world's work. Given health, he meant
to do his own, and it was as much as he could
manage. He would never have looked at Mary
Wynne if she had not been thrown in his way as
an obstacle ; he would have paid her the price of
her garden, and forgotten everything but her name
where it stood in his cheque-book. But when she
thwarted all his schemes, and left him no more
than the daily routine of business to fill his mind,

SALTHAVEN 123

he began to think of her with the absorption with
which he would otherwise have thought of plans
and builders' estimates. Common justice  Brydon
wanted to be just  compelled him to own her legal
right to refuse to sell, and to try to discover any
honest reason for such refusal, with the possibility
of which she might be credited. For weeks he
seemed to stand face to face with her, questioning
her, judging her, gazing at her, and then all at
once he woke to the knowledge that this tender,
appealing woman had won her way into his stronghold,
that he was fighting with her still, but in his
own heart.

How had he thought of women before ? Well,
he had thought mostly of those who worked in his
factory, and he had thought of them with a rough
sense of pity and fair play. " Give 'em a chance,"
he had said scores of times, "let 'em be decently
housed, fed, and clothed  yes, and decently taught,
and they'll be decent women." And for that he
had planned his cottages. It was all right enough
and as true as ever, but Brydon was thinking now

of something beyond decency. The walled garden
had become to him a part of Mary Wynne's
charm  the one explained the other. In destroying
it he would destroy possibilities, perhaps blight
the flowering of other delicate souls. One might
grow a very good sort of woman in this little
houses, but not ]diary Wynne.

Nor was that all. He had thought much of
the clean and well-appointed dwellings which he
would erect, but when he saw how utterly earth,
air, and water could be defiled, he stood aghast.
No doubt while he lived he could guard his property,
but, if he should die, might not the evil
which had befallen Garden Lane come upon his
cottages too ? Might they not be let and sublet,
and swarming families pour in to multiply in their
squalor and improvidence where Mary's bushes of
myrtle and bay, Mary's great cedars and clustered
roses, were rooted now ? So to deface what she
loved seemed a thing impossible, like laying cruel
and violent hands on Mary herself.

Nevertheless, through all these troubled thoughts

the man in a blind fashion did feel that he ought
to cling to the work which he had undertaken.
Before ever he saw Miss Wynne he had pledged
himself to old Mrs. Humphreys, and shrill Betsy
Barnes, and Ada and Minnie, and the rest of the
bold, pale-faced girls who worked at the mill. If
he deserted them, who would take up their cause ?
And he would not try to persuade himself that
Mary Wynne could ever share his philanthropic
hopes. Gentle and kindly she would always be,
but she would never go down amongst the poor
as some women will. She would shrink from
their coarse words and ways, from the hideous
revelations of brutality and want and wrong, she
would be sickened and terrified, her very soul
would ache with fruitless compassion. She must
live in a walled home, but how sweet that home
would be I If it were his  Brydon quivered at
the thought  if it were his ?

Even so, might not he come out of his paradise
to work for his poor in the lane? Why not?
And yet in his clear-sighted honesty he said "No"

as soon as he had looked the question in the face.
Never then would he do anything that could limit
Mary's pleasures, or in the smallest degree imperil
her future. Wife and children before all the
world ! There was his mother, too, at Brighton 
he could never risk life or health or money when
all he was and all he had were needed by these
dear ones. No, it was a choice between the
garden and Garden Lane.

Was it a choice ? It seemed to Brydon that
the choice was made for him. How was he to
tear this new and strange influence out of his
heart ? He believed that it would lead him
wrong, and yet it was the sweetest and tenderest
feeling of which he was capable. " Well," he said
at last, knocking the ashes out of his pipe, and
sitting down to work at his untidy table, " she is
out of reach now, and when she comes back I
daresay she will say ' No.' " But though he said
it he did not really believe it. The advantage he
had already gained had quickened his self-confidence
; he looked on Mary as half-conquered, and

something within him mocked, " She will say
No ' once, but not always. Did she not yield to
you and go to Salthaven? Did you not know
when she said ' I will go ' that her will was bending
before yours and that it needed but a little
more to give you your way with the garden ? And
if she said * No ' to yet a further demand, should
you take that word as final ?"

Brydon answered these questionings with a
laugh, which broke the silence of the room with
its brief sound. " Anyhow," he said, leaning forward,
pen in hand, "she isn't here now, and I
suppose won't be back for a few days. / don't
see any way out of it, it's true, but perhaps there
is one, and if so we'll give it a chance. Only," he
added, as if ensuring fair play by warning an
adversary, "the first opportunity I get, I shall
speak." And, judging from his set lips and
brilliant eyes, he would speak forcibly enough.

So the days went by in their resting procession,
the momentous days that were yet so
strangely uneventful. Garden Lane resumed its

customary aspect, only with a stony strip down
the middle of the roadway, where the main excavation
had been. Mrs. Humphreys and the
rest turned themselves round discontentedly, and
settled down into as much of their former dirt as
they could find. At Salthaven the autumnal
migration of visitors had set in, and though the
lodging-house keepers mechanically put up cards
in every window, till the place looked as if a
shower of remarkably large snow-flakes had fallen
all over it, they did not really expect to attract anyone
by the announcement of "Apartments." It
was not likely. The Deepwell band had ceased
to come, there were many vacant seats in the
little church which had been so crowded in
August, and only four or five bathing-machines
went crawling after the gray tide. The season was
over, Miss Eddington was gone, and Miss Wynne
was packing her trunk, and writing " Brenthill "
upon her luggage labels.

Nothing had happened, and ]diary said to
herself that nothing was going to happen. It

drizzled as she went home. She buttoned herself
in her waterproof, and sighed at the thought of
the gray days that were at hand. Spring-time
would come again, no doubt, but if she had given
up her garden it would hardly be spring to her.

Yet, though she assured herself that all was
over, she carried a faint hope on her journey
through the drizzling afternoon. In the omnibus,
in the booking-office, in the train, which as she
neared home slid ever and anon out of the foggy
dusk into wayside stations, where gaslights shone
with watery lustre on tarpaulin and mackintosh, in
every pause she looked for some one or some thing
to interpose at that eleventh hour. Even on the
crowded platform atBrenthill a possibility lingered,
fading slowly as she drove homeward through
the ugly familiar streets, dying as her own door
closed behind her, and she was received by a
melancholy maid who had face-ache, and who
said that nothing had happened, and nobody had
called.

The next morning a note was delivered at the

VOL. I. K

factory. " Dear Mr. Brydon," it said, " you told
me that afternoon you came to my tennis party
that you would say no more about the garden till
the new year came, but that the offer you had
made for it should hold good till then. I have
been thinking the matter over at Salthaven, and
I have made up my mind to accept it. I believe
it is the right thing to do. I have just written to
Mr. Eddington to ask him to call on you about it
and settle everything.  Believe me, yours sincerely,
Mary Wynne.

I shall go away from Brenthill as soon as
possible, and then you can begin at once. I hope
the loss of this summer will not make any great
difference." Lower on the page was written hurriedly,
" Don't give me too much for it."

Brydon read this letter with a surprise so
curiously compounded that he hardly knew
whether he were glad or sorry. Glad  yes, of
course he must be glad, and yet  by Jove ! but he
was sorry. He had lost the strange and humiliating
delight of sacrificing his noblest ambition to

the woman he loved. He had determined to give
up the garden with all that it involved for Mary
Wynne's sake, and she had forestalled him. She
had given it up to him, but not for him. She had
done it for conscience sake, he knew that very
well, he could read it in every line of her note.
She would not take it back, her conscience would
not let her. She was pledged to make the sacrifice,
and if he did not build his cottages she would
only reproach herself that she had not yielded
earlier. He threw the letter on the table, thrust
his hands into his pockets, and stood staring at it.
The more he looked at it the less he liked it. He
had nothing now to give up for her. To give up
his sacrifice  that was an absurdity, and yet that
was what he found it hard to do.

Why had he sent her away to Salthaven to
think it over in solitude, with that delicate remorse
of hers ? He might have known what would
come of it, he might have been sure that she
would yield. " And she has yielded," he raged,
"but not to me !"

Eddington found him haggard of face and
moody in manner that afternoon when he called.
He suspected that Brydon, thus suddenly summoned
to pay, regretted the extravagance of the
offer he had made six months earlier. That, however,
was the young man's business, his own was
to keep him to the bargain in his client's interest.
Perhaps Brydon really had rather the air of a
hunter snared in his own toils, but he offered no
opposition to the lawyer's arrangements, only interrupting
hun once to say, "I suppose Miss
Wynne came to this decision entirely of her own
freewill?"

"Entirely," said the old gentleman with
emphasis, and added to himself, " you don't creep
out through that loophole, my good fellow."

I thought as much," said Brydon.

The news of Brydon's triumph ran rapidly round
the circle of Miss Wynne's acquaintances, and
re-awakened their flagging interest. " Well ! "
bessie Lee exclaimed, "Ethel Hillier made me
promise I'd write and tell her when this happened,
but I didn't expect to have to do it. I suppose
the money was too much for her." That was the
general opinion in Brenthill, that the mill-owner's
money had proved irresistible. People could no
longer call Miss Wynne a fool, but they transferred
the charge of folly to the young man, who
was paying a ridiculous price for her bit of
ground.

Eddington came out of the affair with great
glory. It was understood that he had opposed
the sale till the utmost penny had been wrung out
of Thomas Brydon, and then had persuaded his
client to yield. The young folks had been puppets
in his hands, and he had pulled the strings
very skilfully indeed. Brydon ought to have
known that he could not be a match for the
lawyer. It was really sublime, the way in which
Eddington had turned j\Iiss Wynne's sentimental
fondness for the garden to profit.

The Brenthill Guardian took the matter up in
an article headed " Approaching Destruction of
AN interesting Relic." The young man who
wrote it looked up a book about Brenthill, printed
many years earlier by a local archaeologist, and
found the old garden mentioned several times 
once when there was a dispute about a boundary,
on the settlement of which the wall in Garden
Lane was built, and on two or three occasions
when bits of the land were sold. He ascertained
that the factory which was about to swallow up

the last remnant of " this historic pleasure-ground"
stood on a fragment of it. The house was comparatively
modern.

The worst of it was that, historic as this
pleasure-ground might be, the intelligent young
man who called it so could not discover that anyone
had ever owned it, or spoken of it, or visited
it, who was of the smallest interest to mankind.
The garden had no tradition beyond that of its
blossoming summers. He did not lose courage,
however, but went to the Mechanics' Institute,
brushed up his history a little, and wrote almost
a column more about all the wonderful things
that the possessors of the garden might have seen.
If they had not seen them they must have heard
of them, which did as well. What tidings of
bloodshed and terror and revolution, of heroism
and crime, of storm and fire and plague, had
stirred the air beneath those leafy boughs ! And
with these memories he mingled little allusions to
bygone customs and things, to sedan chairs,
coaches, and highwaymen, to country fairs and

bull-baiting, to May day dancing and fashionable
assemblies, to hoops and patches and powder, to
melodious tinkling of spinets and clavichords.
He touched very lightly, the authority not being
so readily accessible, on the changes in horticulture,
the new and vivid blossoms that had
opened under English skies since the old garden
was first planted, and when he had thus arrived
at the end of his column he felt rather pleased
with himself He thought, hesitatingly, that it
was a little in Macaulay's manner. The young
lady to whom he was engaged was sure it was 
only better.

It answered its purpose, anyhow, for the readers
of the Guardian got an indistinct impression that
there was something monumental about the patch
of ground which " our energetic fellow-townsman "
was about to lay waste. Jessie Lee added a
postscript to her letter : " I send you our newspaper,
which will tell you all about the history of
the garden. I never knew it was so old or so
interesting, did you ? What a pity it is going to

be destroyed !" And a committee of ladies, who
were planning a bazaar for charitable purposes to
be held early in the summer, sprang at the idea
of utilising the historic spot. Such a delightful
chance of wearing old English dresses  illustrating
all the different periods, you know  and such a
sentiment about the whole thing, all the trees and
shrubs doomed, and spared just for that last day.
Would it not be touching ? And one might sell
plants and flowers from ge Split (Bardeune*
That would be charmingly pathetic, such a sweet
idea, and all clear profit, since everything must
be rooted up when the bricklayers began to work.
It could not make any real difference to Mr.
Brydon, he would only have to put off his building
a little, and Garden Lane had gone on as it
was so long that there could not be any hurts
about the new cottages. And when he was told
that it was for a charity, and that the ladies of
Brenthill asked it as a personal favour, he would
not of course refuse. The matter was as good as
settled.

Meanwhile the garden, every inch of whose
surface was so soon to be laid bare to the gaze of
the whole town, had never been so jealously
guarded as it was this October. Mary Wynne
shut herself up in it, did not go out, even to
church, and refused to see visitors. It appeared
that she was suffering, at her leisure, from
headache.

She was well enough, however, to loiter round
the mossy walks, listening to the cawing of the
rooks, and looking at every plant and tree with
gentle eyes that filled with tears. Even if there
had been no thought of Philip she would have
been sad. It was such a short and piteous span
of life that yet remained to all around her, and it
was she who had decreed that it should end. She
felt like a murderess, and yet nobody loved each
leaf and flower as she did. " There will never be
any more spring," she said under her breath, amid
the sad splendour of autumn colouring. " Oh, my
poor double thorn, you will never blossom like
tiny white roses again !" Her heart ached for the

shrubs and plants which were making ready for
their winter rest ; she even thought of the bulbs,
asleep long since in the black earth at her feet.
She fancied something menacing and strange in
the gloom of the great unchangeable cedars. She
raised her eyes to them, " You are dead," she said,
trying to realise the truth she uttered. " Dead 
and I have killed you."

Later in the month the leaves had almost all
fallen from the lime-trees, and the strong pulses
of the looms throbbed behind the bare red wall.
Elsewhere in the garden the thinned foliage, out
of which all the summer greenness was gone, the
delicate twigs etched on the faint blue of the
October sky, the chill that cried the air, the
autumn crocuses and purple violets, combined to
make a kind of mockery of March, as if a phantom
spring had come to bid its haunt farewell.

Mary thought this one morning as she went
down the walk by the limes. The shining of the
pale sun overhead was pathetic, her soul was
heavy with repentance, a thousand regrets were

gnawing at her. Oli why had she ever yielded
and sinned against her love ? She did not forget
the shameful misery which lay huddled beyond
the wall, but she could not recall that vivid sense
of it which had prompted her renunciation. Her
imagination was blunted.

"And yet," she reminded herself, "it is all
there  it is as real and as hideous as it was then.
If I could only feel it ! " She went to the little
door and stood with her hand upon the latch.
Now," she said, " I have only to lift this and I
shall see it all. I shall see all the ugly wretchedness
I could not bear even to think of at Salt-haven
"

She lifted the latch and stood face to face with
Philip.

It was as if the whole world had gathered
itseK into his eyes. It was more than she could
bear, it was pain. Her heart seemed to standstill,
her sight failed. For a fraction of a second
his face went out like a light in darkness.

You here ? " he cried, and at the sound of his

voice this face came back. " A thousand pardons
I have startled you ! How clumsy of me ! "

ISTo, no." She moved backward a little as he
touched her hand in greeting. " Come in."

May I ? " He stepped across the threshold.
You didn't expect to find any one standing
staring on the step. Of course you took me for a
tramp, or a lunatic."

"No indeed," she protested. "I knew you
were  you."

"Yes, when you had time to think about it.
Ah ! the old garden, just the same as ever." He
had closed the gate behind him, and without offering
to advance stood gazing round. His lips
began to curve and his nostrils to widen a little,
in quick appreciation of the subtle autumn odours
of earth and fallen leaf. He drank the golden air
as if it were delicate wine, and his glancing eyes
brightened in recognition of bush and tree.
Yes," he smiled, " as beautiful as ever, isn't it ? "

It was summer when you were here before,"
she said.

You like the summer best ? Well, perhaps
yet this suits the occasion. You know the old
place is going to be turned into building ground ? "

His tone spoke volumes, and the white roses of
her cheeks bloomed suddenly pink. Evidently he
did not know that she had sold it. "Yes, of
course," she said ; " you never heard "

That's a lie, 'Lisa Barnes ! " screeched a
childish voice, apparently about six inches from
Philip's elbow. " Yer took 'is 'penny  I see yer
do it, and I'll tell yer mother ; I will."

He sprang from the door, and then laughed.
Little imp ! " he said.

"Come further in, won't you?" said Mary,
moving away, and not caring to show her quickened
colour. Was this Philip Wargrave, who had
filled her whole world for so long ! He seemed
strangely far away, and a curious sense of loneliness
and unreality was stealing over her.

' May I?" he asked as he followed. "Are
you staying here, then? They told me nobody
could get in, and I was wandering round the enchanted

ground, devising all manner of expedients
to effect an entrance, when you came to the
rescue, and I assure you, Miss Medland, you
realised my idea of a beneficent fairy."

Did I ? How very nice ! " She was growing
desperate, and snatched at the chance of explanation
he gave her. " But you are behind the time
you don't know that I'm not Miss Medland any
longer."

(Oh, what hould he say when he found that
she had sold the garden ?)

Wargrave stopped, stared, arched his brows.
What ! married .? " he cried with cheerful readiness.
" You don't say so ! " A pleasant light of
congratulation was dawning in his eyes.

It was all over. The bright indifferent smile
was like a flood of sunlight on pale dreams, and
Mary woke. " ISTo, no," she said, with something
of his own readiness, " I'm not married, but I've
changed my name. I'm Miss Wynne now, not
Miss Medland."

Oh, but this is awfully puzzling, you know.

You are not Miss Medland ; " he uttered the words
very slowly ; " yes, I think I have mastered that.
And you are  Miss "Wynne."

"Yes."

Philip suffered his breath to escape in a faint
whistle. "You are Miss Wynne  but you have
sold the garden then ? "

"Yes."

Well, I suppose everything must have an end.
I always thought somebody would build on it
one of these days, but  Got a good price for it,
I hope?"

Yes, very good."

That's well. After all I suppose one may pay
too dearly for sentiment  it wouldn't do to sacrifice
one's life to a garden, would it ? ISTo, I think
you are right  I've no doubt it was the best thing
to do."

Only you wouldn't have done it?"

Oh, I don't say that. I daresay I might if
I'd been sufficiently tempted. Besides, I don't
think it's quite a parallel case ; you see I knew

the place before the time when I met you here ;
I stayed with the Macleanss a long while ago when
I was a lad. I suspect the old garden was more
to me than to you  naturally, you know."

heaven ! The garden was more to him than
to her  " naturally, you know." More to him !
when she would have watered it with her heart's
blood to keep it fair for his home-coming. And
she shivered as she walked by his side, because
it seemed to her that the leaf-sprays which he
brushed with his slim fingers as he spoke must
surely betray her, must burst into some novel
and splendid blossom to greet him for whom they
and she had waited so honores,"

said Philip, " no doubt you were right."
He looked up suddenly, " I'd forgotten that tree
what is it?"

It's a pear," said Mary.

"A pear-tree  what a height! How do you
get the pears ? Ah ! I suppose one doesn't notice
it when the acacia is in leaf. But it's picturesque,
isn't it ? And how sunny it looks up aloft there

VOL. I. L

Tvitli its few yellowing leaves ! Yes, as I was
saying, I'm sure you've acted for the best."

I hope so."

For, after all, it will always be a memory,
won't it ? And this is a very pleasant ending.
But I I'xis surprised when the gate flew open and
there you were ! Though for that matter I wasn't
as much surprised as you were  I'm certain you
took me for my own ghost."

Well," said Mary, " I didn't expect to see
you. I thought you were abroad."

Abroad ? What made you think that ? No,
I'm living in West Kensington  why should I be
abroad?"

"I thought you were in New Zealand with
your brother."

Oh no ! I've been in Kensington for a year
and a half  nearly two years. Who told you I
was going to Iste Zealand ? ISTo  did I really ?
By Jove, what an unconscionable fellow I am !
I'm always telling people all my hopes and fears.
I don't know why they are so kind, wonder they

ALL OF ONE MIND 147

don't kick me out for a bore. Yes, I did think
once, when my uncle married, that I might have
to go, but I always felt as if something must turnup.
It would have been too absurd  fancy me in
New Zealand ! "

Something did turn up then?" said the girl
faintly.

Well, yes. My uncle's marriage wasn't such
a calamity after all. His wife took rather a liking
to me, I think (another of the kind people !), and
the old gentleman said he'd continue my allowance
for a bit. He is always dabbling in stocks
and shares, you know, and he made one or two
lucky hits just about that time. So there was an
end of the New Zealand scheme, and I started on
my own account, with a commission to paint my
aunt's picture to begin with."

And you are succeeding ?"

That's too much to say," Philip answered
with his pleasant smile. " But I think I may succeed
some day  I've good friends, and good hopes.
Ah, by the way, Miss Medland  Miss Wynne, I

VII

mean (why didn't you keep your old name too ?
It would have been very nice, Midland Wynne,
and would have given one time to think), by the
way, you might be one of the good friends if you
would."

What do you mean ? I couldn't have my
portrait taken!" cried Mary with frightened
eyes.

Oh no ! " Wargrave laughed, " I don't tout
for orders like that ! ISTo, don't apologise, it did
sound exactly like it. No, but you might let me
make a study of the garden. I came down to see
if that were possible, and then heard that it was
such a dragon-guarded spot "

Oh, of course ! " said Mary. " Yes, I can do
that for you."

Who knows ? " said Philip with a graver
smile. " It may be the stepping-stone to fortune.
Do you remember a Miss Hillier who came with
some friends of yours in the spring ? Well, she
took it into her head that I should find the subject
for a picture here  a girl's figure with the old

garden for a background. A Guardian Genius
she wanted to call it, but I think I'd rather
have it Eligible Building Ground. What do you
say?"

Yes, I think perhaps it would be best."
Wargrave nodded. " I think it's an idea,"
he continued confidentially. " Suppose the garden
had fallen into the hands of some one to whom it
was a real pain to part with it  some one like
Ethel Hillier herself for instance  compelled to
give it up, say by loss of fortune  can't you fancy
the last pathetic look round the dear old place ?
Yes, I think she was right."

"Do you know Miss Hillier very well?"
Pretty well," said the young man. He paused
by a rosemary bush, broke off a shoot and looked
fixedly at it, smiling and even colouring a little ina
very becoming manner. " The fact is I'm engaged
to be married. I've been engaged since the
spring, and Ethel Hillier and Evelyn  she's a
Miss Seymour  are sworn friends. If this thing
were a real success "

"Well, you must make it so," said Mary.
And you must let me congratulate you."

It was speedily arranged that the young man
should begin work at once. " There is no time to
lose in these October days," he said. " I put up
at the ' Horn,' in the High Street, you know, last
night. I'll just go and get what I want  it isn't
far."

Mary saw him off, gave orders to the maid
that he was to be re-admitted on his return, and
then went up to her own room and closed the
door. She had been quite calm and composed
through all the latter part of her talk with Philip,
and she was quite calm now. She sat down by
her bedside and gazed blankly at the light-coloured
wall, on which her shadow was faintly pencilled by
the pale sunshine.

It is curious how quickly the great changes
come which shape us and all our destinies. It is
a moment, not an hour, which turns love to hate,
or despair to hope. In a lightning flash the whole
aspect of the world is transformed, sun, moon, and

stars are new in new heavens, the tides and currents
of our lives are all reversed. It was not
twenty minutes since Philip had turned to her
with shining eyes and ready congratulations.
What! married V The words rang yet in her
ears, though, as it seemed, she had lived a lifetime
since they were spoken.

She felt sick and strange with a horror of her
foolish passion. He had never thought of her,
never cared for her, he was " always telling people
his hopes and fears," and she had carried these
easily uttered, hackneyed confidences of his in
her heart, not suspecting that she shared her
treasure with Miss Evelyn Seymour, Miss Ethel
Hillier, and, most likely, half a dozen more. For
the sake of such words as these she had suffered
in silence, she had fought against her conscience
the whole summer through, she had left the
people at her gate to fever and misery. Yes,
but, thank God, she had yielded before she knew
the truth  thank God! thank God! Now she
would escape from Brenthill, and the garden

yollld be destroyed, the beautiful, hateful garden.
It would drive her mad to live through another
round of seasons shut in by its walls. Life had
been nothing but a long malarious dream since
first she knew the place, a bewildering, blossoming,
suffocating dream, full of idle fancies and
memories and cravings. She was overwhelmed
with hot shame, she thought she would never
draw breath freely till the last tree fell, and the
last fibre of root was torn from the soil.

A bell jangled sharply through her reverie.
Philip back from the "Horn" already? She
sprang to her feet and went to the glass to make
a critical inspection of her colour and expression.
As she bent forward to the face which leaned to
meet her there came a knocking at the door.

I suppose that is the gentleman who left just
now ?" she said, without turning her head. "Ask
him if he likes to go straight into the garden."

Ko, miss, it isn't that gentleman." And the
maid presented a card on which was inscribed,
Mr. Thomas Brydon," with a hurriedly written

line below, " Pray let me see you for five
minutes."

Her champion, her deliverer  what could he
have to say to her? Perhaps he had some
scheme for facilitating her departure, he might be
too impatient to wait till after the sale, which was
fixed for the middle of November. " Show Mr.
Brydon into the drawing-room," she said, as she
refastened the little brooch at her throat. It
hampered her, she could not breathe.

She found her visitor standing at the window
looking out, a small sharply-cut silhouette against
the clear glass. He turned and came forward.

Thank you for letting me speak to you," he
began hurriedly. " They told me you didn't see

anybody, but as it was a matter of business "

All at once he broke off and looked at her.
How are you ? Did you like Salthaven ?"

Very much. I'm very well, thank you. Mr.
Eddington told me I was brown."

Brown. You look different. Are you well,
really?"

Quite well, except for a headache or two. I
think it feels close here after the sea-breezes.
Won't you sit down?" By this time Mary had
drawn him away from the window, and the light
fell on his face. " Yoic don't look very well, Mi
Brydon."

I'm well enough, only a bit worried," he said
shortly. " It's about this business of ours."

"I guessed as much. You want to come in
sooner  is that it ? "

Not exactly. The question is about my
coming in at all."

Mary gazed at him with parted lips, but did
not speak.

Look here," said Brydon, " I've been thinking
things over, and the more I think the less I like
this plan of mine. What right have I to turn
you out of your home ? When I first proposed it
I thought it was only a matter of money, but it
has never been a matter of money with you.
Suppose I fail in my scheme  suppose my factory
doesn't answer and my cottages fall into bad

hands  then I shall have robbed yon of your
garden, and all for nothing, for worse than
nothing. After all, there must be some risk
whichever way I set to work  why shouldn't I
take the risk at Holly Hill? It might only be
waiting a little, and perhaps it would be best ;
indeed, I think it might be. And you would be
glad, wouldn't you?"

The words were uttered in tones of unwonted
softness, but Mary could not answer. heaven !
was this garden to live and flower in spite of her ?
Was she to be caught and thrust back into it, to
dwell for ever with empty mocking memories 
the garden living and everything else dead, even
the throbbing of the looms silenced behind the
long red wall ?

Tell me," said Brydon ; " you would be
glad?"

Glad," she repeated in a strangled meaningless
voice. " You have changed too, then ?"

"Yes, I've changed  time I did, I think.
What is the matter ?"

Not you ! I never thought you would
change !"

Of course not. I didn't think so myself."

"You told me you would not!" she cried. "I
was so sure of you. I thought you cared for
those poor people  that you would be true to
your plans ; I thought that any time  any time
and I put it off, and now I have tired you out
and it is too late !"

No, no," Brydon exclaimed, " it isn't like
that  don't you reproach yourself. I know what
you are thinking of. But if I can really manage
to do without your garden  why did I ever
torment you so about it ?  if you could keep it

with a clear conscience " (" If / could keep

you for ever close at hand!" he was thinking ashe
stammered over his spoken words.)

Mr. Brydon, you are giving me more for the
garden than it is worth," Mary interrupted him
with passionate abruptness. " I know it  I have
known it all the time. I don't want so much.
Take it, but only give me half for it. That will

be enough  it will indeed. I want you to build
your cottages  you must ! you must ! I will tell
Mr. Eddington that it is my doing."

The small young man had started to his feet,
and seemed to have grown taller. He faced her,
he was furious.

Thank you, Miss Wynne ! So you think
that is at the bottom of it  you think I came
here to try to sneak out of my bargain because I
didn't like the price, and wasn't man enough to
say so ! Well, if you wanted to clinch the business
you've gone the right way to work, for I'll have
the garden now, by God ! And you'll take my
offer, for the matter has gone too far  unless we
both agreed to break it off, and that I won't do !"

Don't ! don't ! I can't bear it," said the girl.
I didn't mean that  you must know I didn't. I
don't know what I did mean, but not that  I
couldn't ! You must be more patient with me,
please !"

I'm a brute !" said Brydon instantly. " I beg
your pardon."

There was a brief silence. "I don't quite
understand," he continued after a moment. " You
wish me to take it ? "

She answered " Yes," with pale lips that scarcely
uttered a sound.

Then of course I will. And I will do the best
I can. Perhaps," he said musingly, " I might use
part  a strip by the factory, and another bit at
the lane end, you know. If I had the frontage
there "

But you must build your cottages," she said
again. " I thought of them while I was at Salt-haven.
I ought to have let you begin in the spring.
Why did you never tell me the people in the lane
had had fever?"

It wasn't much. Only two cases, and they are
all right."

If they had died it would have been my fault."

Hardly," said Brydon. " But I knew you were
feeling like that when you wrote to me after you
came back."

'* And you will build ? " she insisted, colouring

with a guilty consciousness of the mixture of
motives which he could not divine.

Yes, I will build. But if I can spare a bit
near the house, just two or three elms for a home
for your rooks, a bit of turf, and that old buttressed
wall with the lilies and the lavender at the foot of
it  the wall with the tufts of snapdragon  you
would like that ? You would like to know that
that bit was safe and cared for wherever you were,
wouldn't you ? And perhaps some day you would
come back and see it ?"

Mary shook her head. "No," she said, "I
thank you a thousand times, but let the garden go ;
I ought to have given it up before now. I would
rather it all went ; I would, really. Don't cramp
the cottages to save a useless piece of it."

I know what that means," said Brydon, looking
steadily at her.

And pray what does it mean ?" But she herself
knew so well what it meant that she could
not meet his gaze.

It means that you will never come back.

That you can give up the whole as readily as the
half because nothing will ever induce you to set
foot in Brenthill when once your garden has been
touched. That you will remember it as it is now,
and hate the thought "

No," cried Mary, moved by a sudden impulse.
I never will come back to the garden or any part
of it  never ! But if you will take it and carry
out your plan  if you will make amends for all

my selfishness and folly " She had risen and

faced him with eloquent eyes.

"What will you do ?"

I will come back and see your cottages when
they are built."

She was startled at her own words, as if an
alien voice had uttered them ; she could not think
what had prompted her. She could almost have
doubted whether she had spoken them had it not
been for Mr. Brydon's face.

"I take that as a promise," he said simply.
You will let me know where you are, and you
shall hear when they are finished." He was

ALL OF ONE Mind 161

content to say no more, and held out his hand
instantly in leave-taking.

Mary accompanied him to the hall, where they
found Philip Wargrave, who had just been admitted
by the maid. The men looked a little
curiously at each other, and she introduced them,
not without a touch of wondering pride at her own
calmness. " Mr. Wargrave is going to make a
sketch of the garden for his next picture," she
added in an explanatory tone.

A little remembrance of a favourite spot, just
for a background, you know," said Philip, smiling
regretfully. " I've heard of you from Miss Hillier."

Brydon murmured something about " the
pleasure of meeting Miss Hillier in the spring."

You made a deep impression, I assure you,"
said the young artist. " She took such an interest
in the garden. I think myself there is a peculiar
charm about the dear old place."

It is very pretty," the mill owner agreed. " I
remember Miss Hither admired it."

Yes, and she remembers you  as Adamant ! I

VOL. L . - M

believe she habitually thinks of you as the Desolator,
for she was sure you would get your own way."

Mr. Brydon came this morning to tell me he
could do without the garden," said Mary quietly,
in her clear voice.

"NoT cried Wargrave. "Oh, Miss Medland,
you might have spared me this !"

Spared you what ?"

Oh, why did you tell me ? Why didn't you
leave me in ignorance till my picture was finished ?
Why did you upset your arrangements to-day of
all days ?" He bemoaned himself tragically, and
yet with a little laughing self-mockery about his
lips. "Here was I, steeped to the very eyes in
sentiment ; to my finger tips," he stretched out
his long slender hands, "I've been steeped in it
ever since Ethel Hillier came back ; I was aching
deliciously with helpless regret for the old garden ;
I believe my work would have been a masterpiece
of pathos  oh, a masterpiece !  and you and Mr.
Brydon have conspired together to ruin it. It
will be a sham now, the trees and I posing together

in a make-believe farewell. It's cruel ! cruel !
One doesn't have such fine feelings every day of
one's life." And Wargrave threw himself on one
of the hall chairs, while Brydon stood and smiled.

"You'd better go and paint the masterpiece.
I didn't accept Mr. Brydon's sacrifice  it's all
right," said Mary.

I'll undertake that the trees haven't six weeks
to live, if that will do," the Desolator chimed in
encouragingly.

"Oh!" said Philip getting up, and looking
from one to the other. " Wel, you've spoilt my
morning, anyhow. Wlmt do you suppose I'm
going to do after such a shock as this ? I shall
have to meditate sadly on inexorable fate till I
can get myself into tune again."

Meanwhile we all seem to be of one mind at
last," said Mary with a little lingering emphasis
as she shook hands with Brydon.

The sale is over, it is late in November, and
Miss Wynne left Brenthill ten days ago. Philip

Wargrave is at work in his West Kensington
studio ; he has high hopes of his picture. He
certainly never planned anything before which
promised half as well as this. Ethel Hillier is
standing for the figure of the Guardian Genius;
Philip asked her because he felt that he and she
really understood and cared for the old place as
no one else did.

Brydon is exceedingly unpopular in Brenthill
just now. The Ladies' Committee abuse him over
their teacups for his refusal to spare the " historic
pleasure-ground" till May or June, when they
intend to hold their bazaar in aid of Female
Education in India. He answered their deputation
 of whom he secretly stood in extreme terror
with the desperate frankness of a shy man
compelled to speak. When they assured him that
it could not really make any difference if the
people in the lane waited a few months longer for
their cottages, and that he could begin to build
just as well in July, he told them that they didn't
know what they were telling about, and it was

perfectly absurd. They did not like this. And
when he offered them a barrow-load of historic
brickbats to sell as souvenirs, they took his
innocent readiness to oblige them for a mocking
insult, threw his brickbats, figuratively, in his
face, and went away to give various very graphic
versions of the interview, in all of which Mr.
Brydon came off very badly indeed. And if the
ladies are displeased, so also are the good folks in
the lane  they can't think what call he has to be
meddling there. It was well enough if he would
have let things be, but this is worse than the mess
he made there in the summer with his nasty dirty
drains. It was a pity somebody couldn't go and
muddle about Mr. Brydon's own house till he
didn't know which way to turn, and see how he'd
like it.

The young man takes no heed of scowling
brows, but goes his way with an obstinately good-humoured
look on his face. The work of destruction
advances fast, and he stops late at night to
inspect it on his way home from the office. The

workmen have made a wide cartway through the
wall where the little door used to be, and he looks
in through the great yawning breach. The gaslight
shines on its jagged edges, but there is a
thin white fog which makes the garden beyond,
with its poor remnant of trees, like a place of
sheeted ghosts. The cedars are down already, the
double thorn, broken and disconsolate, stands
waiting its fate, the rooks have been scared away,
the turf in the foreground, " mossy-fine," is seamed
with gaping ruts. It will soon be all over. Dead,
long ago, the hands that planted those trees and
laid those bricks, and the whole garden is vanishing
like a picture seen in the fire, or a drifting
smoke-wreath, vanishing in the love - quarrels,
ambitions, and plans of little lives, so brief beside
its long, persistent growth. Thomas Brydon,
stumbling over fragmentary building materials
as he leaves the spot, has no time for its memories
he is too intent on the thought of the cottages
which Mary Wynne will come some day to see.

I

All women are watchmaker  some for themselves
and the rest for other people," said Mr.
Francis Leicester. He stood on his own hearthrug,
with this back to his own chimney-piece, and
surveyed the subject comprehensively from that
advantageous position. And he was entitled to
have an opinion of his own about it, for he was
nearly three and twenty.

Two ladies were present. " Which am I,
pray?" said the younger, instantly accepting the
challenge. She looked up at the speaker with great
bright brown eyes, like those of some sylvan creature.
** AVhicli am T  for myself or for other people ? "

Frank laughed and turned away a little, gazing
at a golden effect of September sunshine on an
old family portrait. " Oh, I'm not going to be
personal," he said ; " you don't catch me so. I
mean women in general."

Oh, women in general ! I don't care for
women in general," said Miss Vivian. "And I
don't much believe that anybody else does."

I may say what I like, then ? "

She nodded gravely. " Yes ; on the understanding
that it doesn't apply to anybody in
particular."

I'm afraid, perhaps, that won't be very interesting,"
said Frank doubtfully.

I'm quite sure it won't be ; it makes me yawn
only to think of it."

But this does apply to somebody," said young
Leicester's mother, smiling, from her easy-chair.
Frank means me. Whenever he wants to make
rude remarks about anything I do, he always
calls me women in general. But this time he
ought to be ashamed of himself, for  thank

goodness !  whatever I may be, I am not a matchmaker."


Say that again ! " Leicester exclaimed. " Today
of all days ! "

Well, I am not" she repeated firmly. " I
don't want to make a match of it, I'm sure. Only
it seemed hard that they shouldn't meet somewhere,
and have another chance."

Just so," said Frank. " Let's hope they'll
profit by it. I should think they might know
their own minds by now ; they are getting rather
elderly, these lovers of yours, aren't they ? "

Elderly  well, they are not so young as Tiny
here ; but they are a good deal younger than I am.
I don't see why they shouldn't have their feelings
as well as other people."

Oh, I've no objection," said Frank, with his
hands in his pockets, and his chin a little higher
than usual. "If / wanted to make a match, it
should be a new one while I was about it, not a
T6chauff6 affair like this. But that's your concern,
and I'm sure I wish you all success. Give them

their wedding-breakfast, if you like. I'll throw
old shoes after them, and go in for all the rest
of the foolery with the greatest pleasure." He
turned to Tiny Vivian. "Will you be bridesmaid
? "

Tiny nodded. " If it's a pretty dress."

"That's settled, then. You shall support the
elderly bride, I'll be best man, and my mother
shall be the rest of the affectionate relatives.
Why, we can do it all in the family ! No, though !
who's to give her away ? The best man can't, can
he?"

"It doesn't sound quite proper. I wouldn't
have the best man to give me away," said Tiny.

Better have the best man to take you," Frank
suggested. " Well, it's awkward, but for such a
little amateur performance I think I might double
the parts."

Couldn't you manage a slight change of
costume as you dodged from one side to the
other?"

"Do not be so silly," said Mrs. Leicester.

And do remember that it is a secret  that
nobody knows anything about this old love affair.
It is quite a secret."

"You hear?" said Frank, turning his head a
little, and looking down at Tiny.

I don't see why you say ' You hear ? ' to me.
I'm sure you're quite as bad, or worse," said the
girl smartly.

Oh, but it isn't that. I wasn't doubting your
discretion or my own ; but I thought you might
have a few spare secrets about you, and not have
known where to put them for safe keeping. I
wanted you to observe that you might bring them
here."

"stow, Frank, sou know I always do keep
secrets," said his mother. " I shall keep this one,"
she added virtuously. " I'm only afraid you and
Tiny won't."

I should keep it better, I think," said Tiny,
if I knew a little more about it. One is so apt
to let out half a secret while one is hunting for
the other half  don't you think so?" She laid

her hand coaxingly on Mrs. Leicester's. " Do tell
me. If nobody knows it, how do you know it ? "

"My sister told me  my dear sister who is
dead," Mrs. Leicester replied, in a slightly altered
voice. Tiny's brown eyes dilated for a moment,
and the corners of her eager, smiling mouth went
down a little. It was just the attention which
any mention of the King of Terrors ordinarily
receives in the course of conversation. " But
there's hardly anything to tell," the elder lady
went on ; " Caroline knew something of young
South when he was really little more than a lad,
and he liked to talk to her about Miss Fairfax.
It was quite a boy-and-girl attachment, you know ;
I don't think it was ever allowed to be a regular
engagement ; but Caroline used to tell me about
it till I felt as if I knew him. She said it was
quite touching to see how the young fellow
worshipped the very ground Mildred Fairfax
trod on. And then he got his commission, and
was ordered off to India. Oh, it's a long while
aojo ! I remember Caroline coming in to tell

me that she had just said good-bye to him, poor
boy."

He went away," said Tiny. " Yes, but why
didn't they marry afterwards ? "

"AVell, I don't know. After Caroline died, I
never heard any more about them. But when
Mildred Fairfax was four or five and twenty she
married young Austin, and he was a friend of my
husband's ; so I saw something of her then, of
course. We gave them a pair of candlesticks,
pink and gold, very pretty ; !Mr. Leicester bought
them in Paris. But I suppose they would be
quite wrong now."

Never mind, most likely they are broken,"
Frank suggested, in a consoling voice.

It was Miss Fairfax who didn't wait for Mr.
South, then?" said Tiny, pursuing the story.
And did he get married too ? "

Oh no ! he never married. He wasn't in the
army long ; he sold out, and went to live with an
uncle, who died some years ago, and left him a
nice little property. No, he never married."

Why didn't she wait for him ? I shan't like
her ! Was Mr. Austin rich ?"

Pretty well, I think. He was a barrister, but
he had money of his own. She is left very well
off altogether. But I had quite lost sight of her
for a long time, till we happened to meet at the
Stauntonss' place about a month ago, and I asked
her to come and stay a few days. That's all."

I shan't like her," Tiny repeated softly. " But
you haven't accounted for Mr. South now," she
persisted with pitiless interest.

"Oh, that was rather funny; it was at Mrs.
Lane's  Minna Wilkinson she used to be. Someone
happened to speak of Mr. Gilbert South, and I
was curious. I asked to be introduced to him, and
we had quite a long talk about poor Caroline and
old times. Wasn't it odd I should meet him just
after I had seen Mrs. Austin again? He mentioned
her, and told me he used to know her, and
began to ask so many questions that I invited him
to come and meet her here. And he jumped at it
quite jumped !" said Mrs. Leicester, sinking back.

He is in love with her still," said Tiny pensively
; " but she doesn't deserve it."

Frank settled his shoulders against the carved
woodwork of the chimney-piece. "But how
long ago is it since these young affections were
blighted?" he inquired. "That's what I want to
know."

Mrs. Leicester sat pondering the question. " I
don't quite know," she said. "What year was
it that young South went out to India ? I could
find out  I must have got it down somewhere, for
it was just when you had the measles."

Frank uttered a very impatient ejaculation. "I
wish to Heaven there was something you couldn't
calculate in that fashion!" he said. Then he
began to laugh, and turned half-apologetically to
Tiny : " Haven't you noticed ? My ailments,
whooping-cough and mumps, and that kind of
thing "

Frank, you never had mumps ! You are
thinking of "

have infected all history. In fact, no-vol.

I.  N

thing has happened hut my ailments ever since
I was born. Ask my mother."

Mrs. Leicester, who had risen to take her knitting
from the table, laid her hand on his sleeve.
They haven't been very bad, luckily," she said,
looking up at his handsome healthy face.

If they had been, the world would have come
to an end, wouldn't it ?"

Yes," she said, " it would  for me."

Frank bent his head and touched her smooth
forehead with his lips. "For sentimental folly,"
he remarked, as he disengaged himself, " there is
nothing like  like  women in general ! Well,
good-bye for the present."

"Where are you going ?"

"Why, your superannuated lovers can't be here,
either of them, for the next hour, and I promised
Huntley I'd go and look at those cottages by the
river they say ought to come down. It's a shame
to spend such an afternoon indoors." He looked
at Tiny. "Won't you come too? You haven't
had a walk to-day."

Not had a walk ! Well, you were playing
lawn-tennis for hours  I should, like to know
what you call that !" Mrs. Leicester exclaimed.

I call it lawn-tennis," said Frank.

It wasn't a walk," Tiny chimed in. " I'll get
my hat ; I should like to go." She was at the
door in a moment, looking back with an eager,
glowing little face as Mrs. Leicester called after
her, " Mind you are not late coming home."

Frank Leicester was a fine young fellow, good-looking,
good-hearted, good-tempered, and the
owner of Culverdale Manor. Had he described
himself he would have given that last clause the
foremost place. He was intensely conscious of
the fact that he was a landed proprietor, and
family tradition had impressed him with the
belief that Culverdale Manor, taking it altogether,
was the most desirable spot on the surface of the
globe. Any trifling drawbacks were honourably
disposed of in the limitation " taking it altogether."
Frank could not part himself in his own mind
from the estate, which had belonged to the

Leicesterss for so many years. He was young
Leicester of Coverdale, and if he had not been
Leicester of Culverdale, he would hardly have
known what he was or what he could be. It maybe
questioned whether it would have been possible
to make provision for Frank anywhere else in the
universe. It would certainly have been difficult.
In his own house, on his own land, or in any
company where there was the requisite knowledge
of the importance of Culverdale, he was fearless,
outspoken, and perhaps a little conceited, with the
happy and harmless conceit of a young fellow who
has been petted all his life, and thinks the world
at once better and easier to deal with than most
of us find it. But in any society where Culverdale
counted for nothing he would have been shy and
humble, with a very moderate opinion of his own
abilities. Briefly, it may be said that Frank axis
Culverdale. It was a prosperous, well-managed,
wealthy, and sheltered estate, beautiful after a certain
trim and English ideal of beauty, but with nothing
wild or original about it. It was just so much

placid contentment lying in a ring fence. Frank
was one with Culverdale when Culverdale was
at its best, with the airy and hopeful freshness of
spring about it and the beauty of promise in copse
and meadow. Whether he would ever be one with
Culverdale when it was at its worst, an expanse of
sodden and heavy acres lying drearily under a dull
November sky, was a question which might suggest
itself to a chance observer more readily than to
those who knew and loved him as he was.

Perhaps it is unnecessary to say that Frank
was essentially a country gentleman. There was
a pleasant harmony between the young squire and
his surroundings which would demand a pleasant
word to describe it. It is true that he had travelled
as much or more than his neighbours, making the
most of a limited knowledge of that tongue which
is neither English nor French, though it has
affinities with both those languages. The fact that
Culverdale was not much known on the Continent
did not depress Frank. He was sorry for the
natives of other lands (comprehensively described

as " foreign beggars "), who, owing to misfortunes
of birth and training, could not appreciate the
position he held at home. As he felt himself
unable to explain it with any degree of precision,
he acquiesced in their ignorance with the good-humoured
tolerance of a young prince in disguise.
He had read his Murray in a good many historic
localities, could find his way, with a sense of old
acquaintance, through the streets of Paris, and
would have been greatly surprised if any one had
told him that he was more countrified than his
second-cousin, Tiny Vivian, who had never crossed
the Channel and had only enjoyed an occasional
week in town. It was true, nevertheless. Tiny,
with her bright innocent brown eyes and eager
youthfulness, was so evidently undeveloped that
it was impossible to classify her. The budding
plant might open in the old garden where it had
grown, or might be transferred to a conservatory
to blossom more delicately there. But Frank had
carried that slight rusticity of his to two or three
European capitals, and brought it back to the

peaceful English home, where the rooks were
cawing in the elms outside his windows, and the
doves cooing in the tangled copses.

Mrs. Leicester went back to her easy-chair
when Frank and Tiny had left her that afternoon,
and gave herself up to drowsy meditation. "A
matchmaker, indeed ! " she said to herself, as she
leaned back, suffering her knitting and her plump
white hands to lie idly in her lap. "As if I
shouldn't make a match for Frank, if I did for
anybody ! And no one can say I ever tried that."
It was quite true. Mrs. Leicester had perceived
that important young men were fatally apt to fall
in love in a wrong, or, which was much the same
thing, in an eccentric fashion, and she had determined
that if Frank would but choose some one
fairly unobjectionable she would ask no more.
Hitherto, in spite of many little flirtations, he had
escaped the snares laid for him at garden-parties
and county balls, and had returned from all his
wanderings apparently unscathed. So far as he
showed any real preference it was for Tiny Vivian.

who received his attentions in a very guileless and
simple manner. It would be great promotion for
Tiny to be mistress of the old Manor House, which
was a paradise to her girlish fancy, but Frank's
mother was quite ready to welcome her there, and
was very good meanwhile in the matter of invitations.
Mrs. Leicester was an amiable, kindly,
easy-going woman, and was really fond of the girl,
yet in her fierce motherly fondness she would have
sacrificed her any day, body and soul, for Frank.
Tiny must take care of herself If Frank wanted
her, well and good, but if the young prince should
chance to discover a more suitable princess elsewhere,
his little cousin must go back to her own
people, heart-whole or heart-broken as she might
chance to be.

Mrs. Leicester's thoughts turned from Frank
and Tiny to her expected visitors, and drifted idly
in the past, to which they belonged. How well
she remembered the dull autumn afternoon when
Caroline came in to tell her that Gilbert South
was gone, and how he had done his best to preserve

a manly demeanour to the last. " Poor boy ! poor
boy ! I only hope Mildred Fairfax will be true to
him," said the kindly, sentimental Caroline, while
her eyes filled at the thought of his sorrow. The
sisters were excited over the love story, but
naturally it failed to interest the fretful little
tyrant who had the measles. Poor Aunt Carrie
had to wipe her eyes and relate a wonderful story
about soldiers who went away in ships, but who
were all coming home again very soon. Mildred
Fairfax was not required in Frank's version of the
romance. Aunt Carrie told no more stories,  she
was dead before the young lover reached India, and
Mrs. Leicester, looking back across the long years
which parted her from her favourite sister, felt a
mournful pleasure in taking up the unfortunate
love story of whose earliest beginning she had been
the confidante. She had a vague feeling that it
might please Carrie if she could give Gilbert South
a chance of being happy after the fashion that
Carrie had planned so long ago. It was a late and
unsatisfactory conclusion, perhaps, yet the best

that she could see, and there was a sentimental
charm about it which appealed to Mrs. Leicester's
easily touched feelings ; so she sat in her easy-chair,
thinking it all over, till the figures of the
old story  Caroline, Gilbert South, and Mildred
Austin  came and went in something of a confused
and softened vision before her half-closed
eyes, while the window near which she sat became
a great sunset picture of darkly towering trees
and yellow sky. The sound of wheels passed
through her pleasant dream, which was hardly so
much dispersed as a little more defined when Mr.
South stood on the hearth rug where Frank had
stood a couple of hours earlier. He spoke in soft
deliberate tones, and looked round the room with
a covert inquiry in his glance.

Mrs. Leicester made an effort, and was glad
that he had had a pleasant drive. " You find me
all alone," she said ; " Frank is out somewhere, and
so is Miss Vivian, who is staying with us. They
were playing lawn-tennis all the morning, and
they have been walking all the afternoon,"

Mr. South expressed his admiration of such unflagging
energy. " It wouldn't suit me," said Mrs.
Leicester candidly ; " but I have a sort of recollection
that when I was young I used to think I
would run about all my life,"

Ah, when one was young ! " said Gilbert South,
with a smile. " And so you are all alone ? " he
repeated, still looking round with questioning eyes.

Mrs. Leicester awoke to a sudden comprehension
of her companion's anxiety. "I shouldn't
have been alone long, even if you hadn't come,"
she said. " I am expecting Mrs. Austin  I told
you she was coming, if you remember. She was
obliged to put her visit off for a few days, and she
arranged to come this very afternoon  in fact, I
have sent to meet her."

How does she come, then ? By a later train ?
You need not have sent twice, Mrs. Leicester  I
would have waited."

"Oh no, it's the other line. I am expecting
her every minute. You have been running a race
without knowing it, and you have won, you see.

I thought she would have been here first. She
has been with friends in Cornwall."

"In Cornwall!" Gilbert South repeated the
words with a touch of startled interest in his
voice. " She used to live in Cornwall  T was
there one summer a long while ago. I wonder
where she has been staying now ? " And, after a
moment, he added, " Xot in the old house, I know."

"It's a beautiful country," said Mrs. Leicester.
ISTot pretty, like Devonshire, of course."

"No, not like Devonshire, but I like it better,
perhaps because I knew it first. The Land's End

on a still midsummer day " He stopped short

in the middle of his speech, and looked down, but
his silence was full of remembrance.

"Oh, delightful!" said Mrs. Leicester, fanning
herself slowly with a Japanese fan. " Do I hear
the carriage? No. Of all places I think the

Land's End " and she glided through two or

three soft commonplace sentences.

Yes," Gilbert interrupted her. " I beg your
pardon, I mean I think you do hear "

Why, of course I do ! " There was the sound
of an arrival in the hall. Mrs. Leicester put down
her fan, but the door at the far end of the room
was thrown open before she could reach it, and
"Mrs. Austin" was announced. "Here you are
at last !" she exclaimed, hurrying to meet the
newcomer.

Mrs. Austin bent her head to receive her
friend's kiss of welcome, and the two came up the
room with a soft rustle of drapery. The western
sun lit up Mrs. Austin's pale face. " You know
Mr. South?" said Mrs. Leicester, and with a smile
she answered, " Oh yes," and put out a gloved
hand. He was cool enough usually, but his heart
beat fast, and he hardly knew what he said, as he
stepped out of a long vista of shadowy years and
a confusion of memories to greet Mrs. Austin,
newly arrived from a Cornwall, whose sunsets, blue
seas, and fringe of chafing white waves were those
of a summer long gone by. It was only when she
said, " Yes, it is a long while ago," that he remembered
what his own remark had been.

At that same moment Tiny Vivian, a dainty
little rustic figure, swinging a bunch of pale honeysuckle
and green-coated nuts, was crossing the
corner of a distant field. She had gone some way
in silence, with thoughts intent upon the romance
awaiting her at the Manor House. It is true that
to Tiny it was a dim and bygone affair, which had
been laid by so long that it could have no better
sweetness than that of dried rose-leaves and
lavender, yet being a real romance it was interesting,
and it was with an absorbed and earnest
glance that she looked up at Frank and said, " I
wonder how those two will meet. Don't you think
she will feel rather strange ?"

"Why she more than he?" demanded Frank.
I should think they would both feel rather queer
after eighteen years." He aimed a blow at a
thistle as he went by. " I've been thinking," he
said with a laugh, " it must be eighteen years ago,
if it isn't nineteen, since I had the measles. I was
a horrid little spoilt wretch, I know  I remember
crying because I couldn't go to a children's party

I used to wear a hideous tartan frock with frills,
and had my hair curled. It is certainly eighteen
years ago this autumn."

Tiny laughed too. " I suppose I was a baby 
my birthday is in August, you know. Isn't it a
long while ago ? But if he has been waiting all
these years, and been true all the while, he has
nothing to be ashamed of."

"Might be ashamed of wasting his time, I
should think," said Frank. "Don't bestow too
much sympathy on Mr. South. And you expect
Mrs. Austin to blush for her inconstancy ? Not
she ! I'll bet you anything you like that the
faithless widow is much the cooler of the two, and
if there is any blushing when they meet, he'll
have to do it."

The sunset is doing it," said Tiny. "Look what
a glow there is dying away behind those willows."

We must look sharp," said Frank. He glanced
at his watch and quickened his pace. " You can
walk a little faster?"

Oh yes  are we far from home ?" and without

waiting for an answer Tiny went on. " I've made
up my mind, I shan't like Mrs. Austin." There
was a determined expression in her brown eyes as
she spoke.

"Sorry for her," said young Leicester. "But,
to tell you the truth, if it wasn't for pleasing my
mother, I could very well dispense with the pair
of them. I suppose he'll like some shooting ; but
I can't go out with him tomorrow  I've promised
to ride over to Bridge End in the afternoon. I
don't know what you'll all do, I'm sure  go for a
drive, if you like."

Tiny pushed out a scornful little lower lip.
All packed in the carriage together ! " Then,
after a moment's consideration, " Well, we might
go to the Castle."

Isn't it rather reckless, using up our one
show place the first day?" said Frank. "Though,
to be sure, it isn't worth keeping  there's so very
little of it."

"And don't you think it might harmonise
nicely with their feelings ? " Tiny continued.

taking a higher range. "Won't they like to
poke about little old remains of something that
used to be very beautiful and splendid ? I should
think it would give them a chance of saying all
sorts of things."

"Oh, go to the Castle  go to the Castle, by
all means!" said Frank, laughing. "I only hope
they'll have your fine sense of harmony, and make
the most of the opportunity. Mind you don't
interfere  that's all."

"I shall take care of your mother," Tiny
answered loftily. " I shall carry her shawl. And
I shall pick ivy-leaves off the wall. I hope 1
know my duty."

Most people do," said Frank drily. " For
instance, our duty is to be home in proper time
to receive these good folks."

"Shan't we do it?" said the girl, a little apprehensively.


He shook his head. "No, like most people,
we shan't ! Can you dress in two minutes ? You
must try to-night, I'm afraid. It's all my fault ;

VOL. I.  o

the time slipped away and I didn't notice." Tiny,
in spite of her uneasiness, was very happy. They
hurried on: the glow in the west grew fainter,
and the rooks went by in great clouds, cawing
their good-nights overhead.

I can't think what possessed my mother to
want these people ! " said Frank, with a sudden
outburst of irritation, as he helped Tiny over a
stile. "I hate hadng to hurry you like this 
you'll be tired out, thanks to them ! "

"Oh, never mind me!" said Tiny, breathless
but loyal.

But I do mind you," Frank answered hotly.
I wish they were a thousand miles away ! Anyhow
their touching meeting must be over by now."

He was right, the meeting was over, and, as he
had divined, Mrs. Austin had been the more unmoved
of the two. While she shook hands with
Gilbert South she did not cease to answer Mrs.
Leicester's hospitably anxious questions. She was
not tired  her train was rather late, yes, but she
really was not tired  she would not have any

tea  no, she would not have anything. Gilbert
looked at her over the top of Mrs. Leicester's head.
There was something of doubt, appeal, almost of
entreaty in his glance, and Mrs. Austin did not
seem to evade it, yet he hardly knew whether it
had reached her or not. At that moment he felt
it harder to realise how he had parted from Mildred
Fairfax than it had been when he stood on the rug
and listened through Mrs. Leicester's talk for the
sound of approaching wheels. Mrs. Austin's softly
modulated and unhurried speech was like and yet
unlike Mildred's voice as he remembered it. It
seemed like an echo of old days awakened in a
strange place. She looked at him with gently inquiring
eyes, as if to discover how much he had
changed since their parting, and she met the same
mute questioning from him. Meanwhile Mrs.
Leicester wondered aloud, with much discomposure,
what Frank and Tiny could possibly have
done with themselves. It was getting late : would
Mrs. Austin like to go to her room ? So the little
party broke up, to meet again at seven.

The question which troubled Frank's mother
was solved when, at three minutes to dinner-time,
she met him on the stairs, looking very hot and
dusty. She expressed some views on the subject
of punctuality which seemed to make him hotter.
"We went farther than I intended  we went
along the river after I saw Huntley, and had to
hurry back. What's the use of making a row
about it ?" he said rather crossly.

You promised me you wouldn't be late !"

Well, don't I tell you we hurried home ? I
believe Tiny nearly ran all the way. I wish I'd
made her take it easy, if this is all the thanks weare
to get." Frank had the disgusted look of a
man who faces an ungrateful world.

"Where is Tiny?"

Gone upstairs like a flash of lightning. Look
here, mother, it wasn't her fault, you know."

"Well; all I can say is that it's very tiresome,"
said poor Mrs. Leicester. " Do make haste,
Frank."

I'm only waiting till you've done talking tome,"

Frank replied with boyish doggedness, and
stood stock still with his hands in his pockets.
Mrs. Leicester uttered an impatient exclamation,
and flounced down to the drawing-room, whereupon
Frank went up the stairs two at a time,
narrowly escaping a meeting with a very cool and
carefully-dressed gentleman who was just coming
from his room. He made the most of his time,
but it was a heavy-browed and rather sullen young
host who made his appearance some minutes after
dinner was announced, and offered his arm to Mrs.
Austin with a muttered apology. Frank was profoundly
dissatisfied with his guests and himself.
People who were busy with their love affairs
while he was a tiresome little boy getting over
the measles belonged altogether to a peculiarly
uninteresting past, and the consciousness that he
had been wanting in politeness made him angrily
uneasy. He made up his mind about Mrs. Austin
and Mr. South between his spoonfuls of soup.
There was a slight likeness between them at the
first glance. It was hardly enough to suggest the

idea of brother and sister, but they might have
been cousins. They were both tall, fair, and pale ;
they were very quiet, and when they spoke it was
with a subdued clearness of tone, and with a little
more finish than Frank himself. The resemblance
made them still more uninteresting, and the soft
voices struck him as slightly affected. So far as
they were concerned, he saw precisely the pair of
faded lovers he was prepared to see, but he noticed
that Tiny, whose cheeks were a little flushed, and
whose pulses were a little quickened by their
haste and her fear of his mother's displeasure,
looked peculiarly vivid and young by the side of
the newcomers. There was something happy and
eager in her utterance of the most commonplace
remarks, which Frank had not observed before.
Cross though he was, he flashed an occasional
glance of sympathy and encouragement to his
fellow-culprit when he chanced to encounter her
bright timid eyes. He would not have Tiny
scolded for that afternoon's misconduct, and he
watched his mother's manner so jealously that

when Mrs. Austin said something about Culver-dale,
and the road by which she had come, he was
preoccupied, and answered rather at random. She
turned away with a hardly perceptible smile, and
spoke to Gilbert South.

It was a little better when the ladies left the
dining-room, for Frank contrived to exchange a
smile of reconciliation with his mother as he held
the door, and so went back to his duty with a
somewhat brighter face. But it was not much
better. These people were not to his taste. They
had the air of having seen and known things
beyond the range of Culverdale society, and Frank
felt shy, young, and half-defiant as he sat over his
wine with Gilbert South. He suspected his guest
of possibly laughing at his youth and awkwardness.
It is true that there was nothing in Mr. South's
manner to justify the suspicion. He did not look
like a man who was in the habit of laughing at
his neighbours; but Frank was in an unreasonable
mood that evening. He held himself aloof
when they went into the drawing-room, still with

that heavy consciousness of inhospitable manners
upon him, and suffered Mr. South to ask Tiny to
sing, and to go to the piano, talk over the songs,
and turn the pages for her, while he sat by the
table, holding a paper which he did not read.

And then in a moment all was changed 
Frank himself  the whole world. Mrs. Austin
rose from her seat by Mrs. Leicester, came out of
the shadows into the mellow lamplight, and
walked to the piano. She simply crossed the
room, with the light shining on her pale, beautiful
face, as if she were drawn softly by the music.
She was utterly unconscious of Frank, who lifted
his head from his hand and sat gazing at her,
astonished and spellbound, seeing her for the first
time. He had been too sulky and absorbed to
pay any attention before; he had had her hand
on his arm  fool that he was !  and had taken no
heed. Now as she went by it was like a wonderful
revelation, and with a perception which to his
own consciousness was singularly quickened, he
noted every detail of the picture  the delicate

features, the soft fine hair, the shadowy eyelids,
the lips parted a little in a lingering smile, the
hand that drooped and held a fan, the dusky softness
of her trailing velvet gown, and the web of
yellowish lace at her throat, with a white spark
of diamond light in it. It was not such beauty
as Frank had ever taken pleasure in, or even
recognised, before, and for that very reason he
was unable to set any limit to his admiration.
The charm was that of a pale gleam in an unknown
sky, revealing a new world. He was
startled at the sudden rush of feeling which
carried him out of the narrow boundaries within
which he had been eating, drinking, and sleeping
till that moment. It seemed to him as if none of
the thoughts and words to which he had been
accustomed in that earlier life would serve him
now. He had scorned poetry as something
foolish and unreal ; but it struck him that if he
took up a volume of poetry he might chance to
find it all coming true. Something wonderful,
inexplicable, unforeseen, had befallen him in that

brief minute; but the important events of life
may very well happen in a minute which often
goes unrecognised. Frank, however, recognised
his as it went by.

He moved a little as he sat, to command a
better view of the room, and saw how South, who
was stooping to untie a portfolio of Tiny's, rose
with a swift glance of welcome as Mrs. Austin
approached, and silently gave her a chair. She
laid her hand on the back, but paused, listening.
Looking eagerly at the two as they stood side by
side, Frank forgot that he had ever seen a
resemblance between them, and would have taken
it as an insult if any one had suggested that such
a resemblance existed. The secret love story,
over which he had laughed that afternoon, rose up
terribly before his eyes. He remembered every
word he had said, how he had proposed to give
them their wedding-breakfast, and how he had
joked with Tiny about the elderly bride. He
hated himself as he recalled the word. Of course,
it had been nothing but a joke ; Frank knew well

enough that a woman who was a girl eighteen
years earlier was not elderly; but still he had
used it, and the blood rushed to his forehead at
the recollection. It was such a detestable word,
hard, prosaic, and commonplace; it seemed to
vulgarise and spoil whatever it touched. Frank
would readily have sacrificed a year of his life
(which at his age means that he would have consented
to be a year younger) could he have unsaid
that hateful word "elderly." His meditations
speedily became so unendurable that, in sheer
despair, he got up and went towards the piano.
Anything was better than sitting there alone, with
an idiotic paper in his hand, which would not
distract his attention for a moment, and his
thoughts full of the remembrance that he had
made fun of Mrs. Austin.

It was with a singular sensation of being at
once very dull and clumsy and curiously keen-sighted
that he approached his guests. For the
first time in his life he understood that real life
could be dramatic, since hitherto he had supposed

that novels and plays There interesting simply
because of their unreality. To say that a thing
was like a play meant that it was unlike anything
which would really happen to a sensible Englishman.
He had not sufficient imagination to enter
into the feelings of the people who came and
went about him. Long habit might teach him
something of their likes and dislikes, hopes and
fears, but he had little or no instinct in such
matters, and consequently saw nothing beneath
the everyday aspect of life. That night, however,
his mother's reminiscences had given him a clue to
the deeper meaning of what was passing under his
roof, and with that secret knowledge of Mrs. Austin
and Mr. South he grasped the situation as if it were
on the stage. He saw it as if it were on the stage,
but he knew that he was more than a spectator.

Tiny was singing, and Frank halted a little
way off, as if to listen. He had never felt so shy
and ill at ease in all his life ; never felt so little
at home as he did standing there in the !Manor
House drawing-room, in the very heart of his

kingdom. Of course, lie knew well enough that
he was the master of Culverdale, but he did not
see that Culverdale had anything to do with this
matter. In fact, for the first time in his life, he
was profoundly dissatisfied with Culverdale ; it
was a hole of a place to live in  it had no capabilities.
How should they amuse Mrs. Austin ?
She had been everywhere, she would be bored, she
would laugh at it. It was all very well for Tiny,
but Mrs. Austin was very different. They might
have company, might " call the neighbours in," as
the old nursery rhyme has it ; but all the neighbours
were bores. Frank had not discovered the
fact before, but he perceived it now in the light of
Mrs. Austin's presence, and reflected that a dinner
party of twenty-bore-power would not mend
matters much.

Tiny's song came to an end, and Frank awoke
to the consciousness that he was looking straight
at Mrs. Austin in his perplexity.

Something makes you very grave, j\Ir.
Leicester," she said, with a slight smile.

I  I Alas thinking." And Frank fairly stammered
over this brilliant reply.

So deeply that it was a shame to interrupt
you."

No, no, not at all. In fact I was thinking 
I was afraid you would find this place very
stupid  I was wondering what we could do that
you would like."

You were thinking about that ?" Mrs. Austin,
who had thought Rank very boyish and sulky at
dinner, looked up at him now with sudden interest.
She was surprised and a little touched, for
there was no mistaking Frank's sincerity. " But,
Mr. Leicester," she said, " there is no occasion for
this terrible anxiety. I assure you, I'm not a
difficult person to amuse. What made you think
I was ? "

No ; I didn't think it," said Frank. " But if
there is nothing at all, how then ? "

Come, it isn't so bad as that. There must be
some walks, for instance."

Oh, well, yes, there are some walks," Frank

admitted rather grudgingly. "I didn't know
whether you would care for walks."

Yes, in moderation. Not what you call walking,
I daresay. And drives ? "

Yes," he said, " you can drive as much as ever
you like ; only I don't exactly know what there is
to drive to."

You are not encouraging," said Mrs. Austin
with a little laugh.

There is a ruin," said Frank. " Tiny and I
were thinking that perhaps you would like to go
tomorrow afternoon, if it is fine. But it is
nothing of a place," he continued, fixing his
brown eyes despondently on the floor, as if he
saw the whole thing in the compass of an Indian
rug.

"Ruined too much, or not ruined enough?"
she inquired.

Oh, ruined quite enough  too much if anything."


I like a neglected ruin ; I hate restorations.
I am sure I shall like to see this one," said Mrs.

Austin graciously. " And what is this building,
or rather, what was it ? "

"Well," Frank replied, "it's a bit of a little
tower  Culverdale Castle some people call it."
(He had invariably called it so himself till that
evening.) " Perhaps," he added with a fine irony,
for he was growing more fluent, "it might have
been the fashion to have your castles small when
this one was built; or perhaps it wasn't quite fullgrown
when it began to fall to pieces  I don't
know. But Culverdale Castle  Lord ! ' Frank's
tone, as he spoke of his little ruin, conveyed contemptuous
disgust, as if it were no more than a
decayed tooth.

Mrs. Austin slowly turned a ring on her finger.
I don't know that I'm so very particular about
the size of my ruins," she said ; " some people
are, I believe. I remember going once to
see the remains of a Woman villa with some
friends. I think they expected to find it standing
up with a knocker on the door, and they were
very much disappointed ; in fact, they said it was

a swindle. I won't say your ruin is a swindle,
Mr. Leicester, especially after all your warnings."

"You may if you like," said Frank gloomily.
I think myself a thing ought to be a decent
size. What did you say just now, that you didn't
like 'em restored ? "

"No, I don't. Why? Has this been restored
? "

He shook his head. " It's all right then. I
only thought that if you would have liked a little
more of it, I might have gone over tomorrow with
a hod of mortar and a barrow-load of stones, and
done it up for you. Only then you couldn't have
driven there till Saturday."

Thank you," said Mrs. Austin, smiling, " I
think I would rather go tomorrow and see it as
it is."

Well  only you won't expect anything, will
you?"

"No, I won't. Do you always depreciate
Culverdale and everything belonging to it in
this fashion ? "

VOL. I. * p

The point-blank question, asked in the quietest
of tones, was not easy to answer. "I don't
know; not particularly," said the disingenuous
young man. "It does well enough for me, you
know."

I suspect it would do well enough for a good
many people," Mrs. Austin replied. " That was
rather a pretty road I came by from the station
this afternoon  you shall not run everything
down so unmercifully." Frank coloured with
pleasure to hear her defending Culverdale. He
felt as if she were taking his part against himself.
And, by the way," she went on, " there is one
thing I want to see which you do not propose to
show me, apparently."

Frank emerged from the depth of his despair.
' What is that? Tell me."

Why," said Mrs. Austin, " I want you to show
me over your house. I am sure you have all
manner of delightful old things stored away here
I caught sight of a lovely old carved cupboard at
the top of the stairs, as I came down, which

looked as if it ought to be a perfect mine of
wealth."

"What sort of old things?" Frank inquired
anxiously. '' Old china, do you mean, and pictures,
and old work  do you care for them?"

Why, yes ; don't we all care for them nowadays?"
said Mrs. Austin, with something which,
though hardly so much as a smile, was like soft
sunshine while she spoke. " I'm not conspicuously
behind the age, Mr. Leicester  I'm very
like other people."

That I don't believe," muttered Frank under
his breath. It was doubtful whether his companion
caught the words or not. Her eyes rested
on him with a faintly inquiring expression, and
he went on hurriedly, " Let me show you, then.
You shall see all that there is."

That will be very good of you. I should Hke
it very much. I suppose you know everything in
the house by heart?" said Mrs. Austin, furling
and unfurling her fan, and looking up kindly at
Frank.

All those tidings ? No, indeed I don't' the
young man answered, half laughing and half-confused.
" I know there are a lot of old pictures
and heirlooms about the place. I've always been
meaning to learn all about them, but I never
have. But I'll find out," he added courageously.

It doesn't sound as if you would be a very
trustworthy guide."

Oh, try me first ! " he exclaimed. " Then
when you have exhausted my stock of information
you can have somebody else who knows
more ; and then "

And then ? " she repeated when he paused.

Why," said Frank, blushing like a shy schoolboy,
" then I think you had better teach me."

Mrs. Austin looked at him smilingly. " It
would only be common gratitude, would it ? " she
said.

It is a bargain, then," he urged. " But when?
Candle-light isn't any good, you know. AYill tomorrow
morning do ?"

She answered that tomorrow morning would

suit her perfectly, and looked past Frank in a way
that made him turn and discover Mr. Gilbert
South at his elbow, smiling agreeably, and holding
a piece of music. He promptly announced the
nature of his errand.

Miss Vivian has sent me to ask if you will
sing this with her."

Frank hesitated, looking at the song, at Mr.
South, at Tiny, who from her music-stool surveyed
the scene, and waited the result of her embassy.

Pray do," said Mrs. Austin. " Especially as
I see that Miss Vivian has chosen a song which
happens to be a favourite of mine."

All right," said Frank, and taking it from Mr.
South, he went to the piano. He had had his
back to Tiny during his talk, and now that he
walked towards her it was with a clouded face.
He had suddenly recollected that there was no
occasion for him to amuse Mrs. Austin. South
had been invited on purpose to do that. " I
daresay she was washing for him all the time ! "
thought Frank, with a bitter throb of jealousy.

Well, I don't care ; I'll show her the house tomorrow.
It's my house  it's all I have, and I
will have that, at any rate ! And he shan't come
with us either ; the others can take him round, if
they like."

"Aren't you very grateful?" said Tiny, in a
whisper, looking up at him with a sunny little
face, and arching her delicate brows as if to point
the question. "/ saw how good you were, and I
knew how you must hate it."

Your eyes are very sharp," Frank replied.

She nodded. " Oh, but it wasn't only then,"
she said, setting up the music before her, and
flattening the page with a touch of her soft little
brown hand. "I looked at you at dinner-time,
and I saw you didn't like her. I can always tel
whether you like people or not."

Can you ? What do you think if I behave
to anybody just as I do to you ? "

I shall not answer that question," said Tiny
firmly. " You seem to have forgotten that we are
never to talk about anybody but people in general,

and you didn't behave to her just as you do tome,
so that has nothing whatever to do with it.
Do you know, I think I have had the best of it
this evening ? I said I shouldn't like her, and I
don't ; but he is rather nice."

"Father nice, is he?"

Yes," Tiny answered, " he is. Now are you
ready?"

Mrs. Austin, listening to her young friend's
performance, decided that he had a pleasant voice,
sadly in want of a little training. " Do you sing
now ? " she asked Gilbert South.

The "now" marked a remembrance that he
sang of old. " Not to-night," he answered hastily ;
tomorrow, perhaps."

Dear me ! Everything seems to be for tomorrow,"
said Mrs. Austin, leaning back in her
chair and looking down.

"I should rather have said that everything
had been yesterday," South answered in a low
voice.

To-day comes off badly either way," she rejoined

lightly, but-without raising her eyes. " It
generally does, I think."

He fancied there was a touch of mockery in
her tone, but he could not be sure. "Do not say
anything against to-day," he said ; " I have looked
forward to it for a long while."

"Ah, then you are sure to be disappointed !"

Am I disappointed ? " said Gilbert. " That is
what I want to know." He turned quickly to
the piano. "Thank you; that is a charming
song." He went back to Tiny Vivian, while Mrs.
Austin, softly murmuring her thanks, rose and returned
to Mrs. Leicester, who roused herself from
a state of drowsy contentment to entertain her.

Frank had no further opportunity that evening.
Perhaps had one presented itself he would hardly
have taken advantage of it. When the party
separated for the night he lingered at the door,
and caught a glimpse of Mrs. Austin going up the
shallow steps of polished oak, and that moment
taught him that his old staircase was a fitting
background for a picture. Coming back, he took

up his accustomed position on the hearth rug, so
absorbed in his own thoughts that he seemed
almost sullen. He was glad that Mr. South was
tired, and would not stay to smoke and talk. He
bade Tiny a brief good-night; he stood looking
heavily at his mother as she wandered about the
room, gathering up her scattered possessions.

You don't like these people, do you?" she said.

Frank muttered something to the effect that
South was well enough.

No, but you don't like them. I didn't much
suppose you would ; but I thought you wouldn't
mind for once. We don't often have anybody
you don't like."

All right," said Frank. " I didn't complain,
did I?"

No ; and it was very nice of you to go and
talk to Mildred Austin this evening. You did
go and talk to her ? I didn't dream it, surely ? I
was half-asleep, I think."

"Yes; I talked to her."

"And you know it is only for poor Carrie's

sake  just a fancy of mine. It won't be for long,
Frank."

"Neo," said Frank, "I don't at all suppose it
will be for long."

Mildred was always considered very good-looking,"
Mrs. Leicester remarked in a musing
tone, standing still with a work-basket in her
hand. " Of course, she has gone off a good deal 
though really not so much as one might have
expected  since I first knew her. But I know
she isn't your style of beauty, even if she were
not elderly, as you and Tiny were saying this
afternoon. Oh, you young folks!" And Mrs.
Leicester ended her sentence with a good-humoured
chuckle of reminiscence.

There was a pause before Frank opened his lips.
Since the time was just long enough to permit of
making an appeal to high Heaven, it may be hoped
that it was so employed. " I'm sure I never said
she was my style," he answered, and added in a
lower voice, "I know very well she isn't!" And
with that he turned on his heel and went away to bed.

It was evident that young Leicester might
dream his new dream with little fear of discovery,
unless Gilbert South should detect his secret.
Mrs. Leicester and Tiny Vivian had both perceived
that Frank did not like Mrs. Austin.
Tiny, being keener sighted than the elder lady,
might possibly reconsider the matter ; but such a
conviction is not lightly set aside. Life is long
enough for many changes ; but it is not long
enough to allow of our recognising many changes
in our friends. Having once settled what they
must be (which is easily done, since there is but
one really complicated human being in the world),
it is obviously necessary that they should always
be what we have determined they are. How
otherwise could we go through life with any feeling
of security ? It would be little less intolerable
than if the hills and valleys, fields and high-roads
around us, should shift about and journey
in different directions, under a sky whose stars
were playing hide-and-seek with the astronomers.

If Frank had discovered Mrs. Austin's supreme
loveliness and charm in the soft lights and shadows
of the evening, it was appropriately reserved for
Mrs. Austin to perceive that the morning was the
time which best suited her young host. If Mr.
South, and perhaps Mrs. Austin herself, should
chance to be a little pale and languid, a little
conscious of a shadowy past,

Clouding o'er the new-born day
With regrets of yester-morn,"

a little disinclined to recommence the monotonous
journey from dawn to dusk, which after all seemed
to lead to nothing very splendid, one would have
said that Frank Leicester was alive and glad withall
the life and gladness of the newly-wakened

"vvorld. He was not in the breakfast-room when
Mrs. Austin came down, but, before she had well
answered Mrs. Leicester's questions about her
night's rest, she heard that he had been out and
about for a couple of hours. "He was here a
minute or two ago," said Tiny Vivian, herself a
radiant, bright-eyed, early riser, "he will be back
directly. He only went into the garden." And
as the words were uttered Mrs. Austin looked out,
and saw Frank emerging from an opening in the
tall yew hedge which bounded the view on one
side, and coming up the path, with the sunshine
glistening on the short waves of his brown hair,
and his dog leaping at his lifted hand. If there
was a touch of something rustic about Frank, it
was an unmixed charm just then, as he opened
the glass door and stepped in, fresh as if he had
been steeped to the heart in the air and sunshine
of "the country green." He brought a breath
of the sweet morning with him, telling how he
had brushed through leafy ways and looked across
his level meadows before his guests were ready to

lift their tired heads from their pillows. He had
gone to bed with a heavy heart, but he came
forward now, happy and hopeful in spite of himself,
and prodigiously hungry.

Breakfast over, Mrs. Leicester excused herself
on the plea of orders to give to the housekeeper.
That means an hour's gossip," said Frank to a
family portrait.

"It means your dinner, you ungrateful boy,"
Mrs. Leicester replied, as she opened the door.

There was a brief silence after her departure.
The four who remained, and whose duty it was to
amuse and to be amused, seemed a little uncertain
how to set about it. Tiny was the first to make
an effort. A suggestive remark, aimed at Mr.
South, brought him to her side where she stood at
the window; a dialogue on gardens followed as
naturally as possible, and in less than five minutes
the pair were setting out to study the example
which lay before them, basking in the yellow
September sunshine. Mrs. Austin, meanwhile,
was glancing over the Times, and young Leicester,

as he leaned against the chimney-piece, pencilled
figures on the back of an envelope, and added or
subtracted in a curiously haphazard fashion. He
never once looked at Mr. South and Tiny, and
Tiny was apparently unconscious that Mrs. Austin
and he were still alive. When the couple were
fairly gone, and the sound of their footsteps and
voices had died away, Frank drew a long breath,
glanced at his bit of paper as if he did not think
much of arithmetic in general, tore it across, and
stood waiting his companion's pleasure, and reflecting
on the advantages of early rising.

While Mrs. Austin was yet half-asleep, Frank
and Tiny had held a consultation on the lawn,
under the tulip trees. Starting from the ascertained
fact of his dislike to the strangers, it struck
Tiny as very nice of him to say that he would
show Mrs. Austin round the house after breakfast.
But, knowing that even Frank was mortal,
she was not surprised that he set a limit to his
self-sacrifice. " Look here, Tiny, I can't stand
both of them," he had said. " You'll have to take

your friend South away somewhere. You like
him best, you say  well, I don't. Besides, I
expect I shall have enough of him tomorrow.
Take him round the grounds, can't you?" And
when Tiny hazarded a smiling reference to the
story they had heard the day before, he stopped
her rather abruptly. "Oh, let my mother mind
her own matchmaking  it's no concern of ours.
We've only got to keep the secret. And don't
you see, Tiny, it would look very queer if you and
I walked off and left them to themselves?" Tiny
saw that. "They'll have time enough and to
spare," said Frank finally.

So they will," she assented. " This afternoon,
when you are out of the way."

"Yes," said Frank, gazing intently at a weed
in the turf, " they'll have this afternoon." And soit
happened that, while the afternoon was reserved
for Gilbert South, Frank had the morning.

"Are you inclined to have a look round the
place?" he inquired in a meek voice when Mrs.
Austin seemed to have finished the Times. He

waited for her answer with some anxiety. Suppose
she should have changed her mind, or forgotten
all about it ! Experience, it is true, had
taught him that women were flatteringly compliant
when they had to deal with the young
owner of Culverdale Manor. Frank's propositions
were invariably applauded by his feminine listeners,
and he knew very well that if he were to
suggest to any girl in the neighbourhood that they
should ascend Mount Everest together, she would
say it was a delightful idea, and would take his
arm to start off that moment. Frank had never
found women capricious. Though he was as ready
as any other man to say Souvent femme varie, in
point of fact, in his little flirtations, it was always
Mr. Francis Leicester who changed very quickly,
and the girl who showed an unnecessary and
sometimes reproachful constancy. According to
experience, Frank should have had no misgivings
when he reminded Mrs. Austin of her promise.
But he instinctively felt that his experience was
not likely to be of much service to him on this

VOL. I. Q

occasion. "You said you should like it  there
isn't much to show you, but will you come ? " he
asked with simple directness.

Mrs. Austin looked up a little absently. Their
talk of the evening before had not made a deep
impression on her, and she had almost made up
her mind to spend the morning in writing letters.
When Frank spoke she had just reckoned up
the most tiresome of her correspondents, and
had decided that she might hope to possess an
easy conscience by luncheon-time. But as she
met his eyes she remembered his anxiety to amuse
her, and checked the answer which was on her lips.
He was a nice hospitable boy, this son of Fanny
Leicester's, and if he wanted to do the honours
of his home he should have his way. Her letters
could wait, and she would see Frank's old china
in the morning and his little ruin in the afternoon.

Will I come ? " she repeated. " Of course I
will come. I shall be delighted." And she rose
instantly, with a sweet readiness which filled
Frank's soul with a tumult of delight.

It was speedily obvious that the young man
knew very little about the things he had undertaken
to show. He was vaguely proud of his
heirlooms because they were heirlooms. It
pleased him to think that he inherited as a matter
of course what other people were so anxious to
buy. His old oak had been carved for the Manor
House, his old cups and dishes had belonged to
generations of dead and gone Leicesterss. That
was enough for him. He remembered the names
of a few of the portraits, and in one or two notable
cases could even tell the artist, but his remarks asa
rule were not instructive. " Oh, I recollect that
one," he would say, with a glance of recognition,
used to hang in the little room out of the gallery
upstairs," or it might be, " Do you see that queer
old fellow up there ? I remember I was awfully
afraid of him when I was a little chap ; I thought
he walked." Sometimes he confined himself to a
simple expression of opinion. " That's a comical
get up  doesn't she look as if she'd got a duster
and a feather on her head ? Do you suppose that's

a cap, now, or a hat ?" But, curiously enough, his
ignorance did not affect Mrs. Austin unpleasantly.
She did not feel as if Frank were an outsider, but
rather as if the connection between him and the
people on the walls was close enough to justify a
disregard of mere book-knowledge about them.
She could have learned more names and dates ina
couple of days than Frank had acquired in
his life, but he claimed kindred with the portraits
in the very look and attitude with which he confronted
them. There was a young squire of more
than a century earlier who might have been his
brother. Mrs. Austin called his attention to the
likeness, and Frank, with his handsome head
thrown back, stood gazing at him in a glow of
suddenly-awakened friendliness. " I wonder who
he was ?" she said. " Suppose he turned out to bea
namesake of yours ? "

I'm sure I don't know," the young fellow
answered. " Is he really like me ? " And without
waiting for her reply he went on, "I'm
idiotically ignorant."

Don't call yourself names," said Mrs. Austin.
You certainly are ignorant, and it is very disgraceful,
but I rather like it. People who know
too much won't let one make any discoveries or
imagine anything on one's own account. Now
you leave me quite free in that respect."

Frank smiled somewhat ruefully. " If that is
all you want, I am perfect."

They went upstairs, and there he had rather
an easier part to play, as she could appreciate
what she saw without his explanation. He was
eager to fit keys into locks for her, and would
readily have broken open any obstinate door
which resisted his efforts. Certainly, if the future
was to be for Gilbert South, the present time was
Frank's, and he made good use of it, for before
that journey of discovery was over, the house was
peopled with beautiful memories. There was
Mrs. Austin pausing at the top of the stairs, and
smiling at a grotesque head which grinned from
the door of an old cabinet  sirs. Austin intent on
a dingy bit of tapestry, and triumphantly discovering

Eebekah at the well  Mrs. Austin laughingly
putting him aside when he failed to unlock a
great oak chest, and turning the key with her slim
white fingers  Mrs. Austin looking out from an
oriel window across the sunlit oaks and chestnuts
of the park with a tranquil far-seeing gaze.
There was more to remember of this, for in the
act of turning away she stopped short, " Oh,
there's some beautiful old china," she said, "I
must have a look at that! Don't you care for
these things, really, Mr. Leicester ? "

"Xo I don't know  I mean Yes," said Frank.
Don't you think they are women's things ? "

Women's things ? Don't be so scornful," said
Mrs. Austin, with her quiet smile.

That isn't scornful," he answered slowly. '' I

meant " He paused and looked at her, at the

brown oak panelling behind her head, at the blue
and white china, at her lifted hand as she put
back a cup. The sunshine, slipping through the
leaves which wavered outside, brightened the
picture with capricious touches of gold.

Well  you meant ? I am waiting."

"Why," said Frank, "what good are these
things to me? I don't understand 'em, you
know. I can read the papers and go over my
bailiff's accounts just as well without two blue
plates and an old teapot in front of me. But
when you stand there it's different  they seem to
be all right somehow."

Mrs. Austin met his gaze with a little touch of
laughter just at the corners of her mouth. " Upon
my word!" she said, "I didn't know that I was
in such perfect harmony with an old teapot.
Well, it is something, no doubt, to be able to
adorn the leisure moments of life  when the
bailiff is away ! " Frank would have protested,
but she checked him with a quick little movement
of her head. " Are you going to explain
yourself? Don't  an explanation is enough to spoil
the most beautiful thing that ever was said, and to
make the worst worse. Besides, there is no need."

No," he answered with a laugh, " I don't
suppose there is."

Mrs. Austin ended by enjoying her morning ina
very bright simple fashion, and feeling a little
as if she and Frank were a couple of children
engaged in some delightful piece of mischief.
Frank had certainly hampered a lock, broken a
little saucer, lost one key on the floor of a dark
cupboard, and mixed up the remainder in hopeless
confusion. He knew there were some queer old
dresses somewhere, he remembered having seen
them as a boy, and in the search for them he took
Mrs. Austin into all sorts of shadowy corners, and
made interesting discoveries of old brooms and
brushes and dusty books. On one shelf he found
some toys, shabby with ill-usage and long neglect.
He stood looking at these for a moment, bewildered
to find that he had forgotten them so utterly and
remembered them so well. He stooped to touch
a little painted water-cart, and then shut them all
into the darkness again with a lingering smile.
At last he came upon the old brocades and laces
of which he was in search, and looked anxiously
to see whether they would please his companion.

Are they right ? " he said, " or don't you care
for them ? " As soon as he was satisfied on this
point, he would have tossed them all over the
floor for her inspection, if she had permitted it.
'look like private theatricals, don't they?" he
said when he was bidden to stand on one side.

"Oh, isn't this lovely?" she exclaimed, without
heeding his question.

He considered the pale delicately - flowered
silk with a puzzled face. " Lovely ? Isn't it
rather queer and  and  washy?" he said at
last.

"Oh, that won't do at all" Mrs. Austin replied,
smiling up at him. " That isn't what we
say about such things nowadays. We must
educate you."

"Well," said Frank, with a flash of inspiration;
"I think I should know better if I saw it on."
Mrs. Austin shook it out daintily to let the light
fall on it, and he looked from the silk to her face,
and back aijain. All at once he seemed to see
what she would look like in it ; a tall slight

figure in the quaint old gown. " Yes' he
said, with sudden conviction, " I see now. It's
beautiful."

"You are a promising scholar," she replied.
"What were you saying about theatricals just
now ? But these things are too good for theatricals
 too real for such little candle-light shams."

ISTot a bit too good  if you would act !"

She shook her head. " Not even to wear this
dress ! Though that would be delightful."

Do," said Frank. " Why not ? I'd get myself
up like my friend downstairs  the man over
the library chimney-piece, you know Would
that be right with this of yours ? "

It was Mrs. Austin's turn to call up a picture,
and she raised her eyes to his face. " Oh yes, I
think so. We should be in the same half-century
at any rate, quite near enough for private
theatricals."

Oh, I say ! " Frank exclaimed. " Half a
century ! "

Well, I admit it would be an awkward interval

in real life," said Mrs. Austin, smiling. " But
I think it might do on the stage."

Let's try it," said Frank, with his face aglow.

No," she answered very gently and decidedly.
Why not ask Miss Vivian ?"

"Tiny!" The suggestion called him out of an
enchanted world into his everyday existence, and
he had to check himself lest he should say something
ungracious.

She would look charming in some of these
things," said Mrs. Austin thoughtfully.

"I daresay she would  I mean, I'm sure she
would. Well, we can think of that  any time."

'' And do you think we can join the others 
anytime?" his companion inquired. "I should
say we had better bring our investigations to an
end and look for them. Your mother will think
we are lost."

Frank attempted no remonstrance ; and she
laid everything back in its place with a charming
dexterity, only pausing once to look at some old
lace. He watched her, still with the shadow on

his face which had come when that mention of
Tiny's name reminded him of more than Tiny.

They went downstairs, but could find no one.
My mother is having more than an hour's gossip
to-days' said Frank. He turned to a side window
and looked out. "And the others are playing
lawn-tennis."

Mrs. Austin provided herself with a parasol,
and they went across the lawn to find the players.
Tiny Vivian had enjoyed her morning very well,
though she had been conscious that Frank and
Mrs. Austin were a long while going round the
house. She had not, however, got beyond the
feeling that it was very good of Frank, and she
came to meet the pair with a bright face of
welcome. " Coming to play?" she said gaily.

All right," said Frank ; and he turned to his
companion, " you will, won't you ? "

Mrs. Austin shook her head. "No  I can't
play. No  don't offer to teach me  it's very
kind of you, but I'm too old to begin now."

If he were disappointed it was only for a

moment, for in a moment lie felt that he would
rather not see Mrs. Austin rushing about after
balls, eager, excited, flushed. Tiny might, of
course, but not Mrs. Austin. "It isn't that!" he
said, in answer to her smiling refusal. "You
could learn anything you liked, but you are quite
right  it would not be worth your learning."
And he went away with long steps to fetch her a
chair. When he came back, Gilbert South was
describing something to Tiny in his soft voice,
and Mrs. Austin stood a little apart, studying the
old house with tranquil eyes.

Frank brought the chair, and an Indian shawl
of his mother's which he had picked up in the
hall. "Will you have this on?" he said. "No?
Then I'll put it over the chair. It's a very ugly
chair." Frank had never been in the habit of
eyeing his furniture so discontentedly.

"It's very comfortable," said Mrs. Austin,
giving a touch to his arrangement of the drapery
which seemed to make it exactly right. " Now I
won't keep you from your game."

Look here, Frank," said Tiny, lightly touching
his arm with her little sunburnt fingers; 'leave
me out this time. You play with Mr. South."

No, no, Miss Vivian, that won't do," Gilbert
protested. " You've been describing Mr. Leicester
as a champion player, and I'm not going to
be pitted against him for you to laugh at my
clumsiness."

"You're not clumsy," Tiny replied, quite
simply.

"Thank you," said South, with a little bow.
"But I'm a beginner, you know, and you have
undertaken my education. Suppose you let me
learn a little by looking on."

Come then. Tiny," said Frank. After all he
had had his turn. It was only fair play to make
way for the rival who was also his guest.

Gilbert strolled across to where ]airs. Austin
sat, and threw himself on the grass at her feet.
Upon my word," he said, " I'm not sorry to resta
little. I've taken a good deal of exercise this
morning!"

Mrs. Austin smiled, and watched the game,
though she did not understand it sufficiently to
appreciate Frank's skill. She was interested in
the two agile figures merely as a picture  a pretty
picture in the autumn sunshine. Gilbert, at her
feet, leaning on his elbow, seemed as if he also
were watching the two figures, but in reality his
eyes where fixed upon a third, a tall slender girl,
fair, graceful, swift, playing battledore and shuttlecock
in the stillness of a summer evening, close
by an old red-brick wall on which peaches were
trained. Above the wall a thin rank of trees rose
against a clear sky. There was an arch over the
garden path, a tangle of climbing roses, delicate
leaf-sprays, and clusters of loose white flowers,
under which the girl would go when the game
was over and the sun gone down. And beyond
the buttressed wall, where the elm boughs were
stirring in the cool evening air, was the great
world, beginning at the ivy-grown garden gate
and stretching away to unknown distances. To
India, for instance, which lay waiting for a young

fellow who was to do the most remarkable things.
It was wonderful only to think of the sights he
was to see, the strange faces, the strange skies,
before he came home bronzed and bearded, to
stroll once more along the grassy walks and find
the clustered roses of a later year hanging white
in the twilight. As he left the garden for the
last time that home-coming had been almost as
vivid and real as the tender pain of parting.
Afterwards it faded away into a dim picture, sad
as such pictures are when what was to have become
an actual future is put aside and marked,
It might have been." But now while he lay on
the turf, watching Tiny and Frank, it rose up
before his eyes as clearly outlined as of old.

It could never be. The heads of the household
were dead, the old home was broken up, the house
was sold. Gilbert had a vague remembrance of
having been told that a retired tradesman, who
piqued himself on growing big pine-apples, had
taken the place and improved it immensely.
However loner his life might last, it could never

hold that happy home-coming, as a hero, to the
old garden, and the ghi who was to wait for him
there.

He raised himself a little, and turned to Mrs.
Austin, who was leaning back against Frank's
Indian shawl. "Do you remember," he said,
how we used to play battledore and shuttlecock
at WestHiU?"

She looked down at his uplifted face. " Yes,"
she answered, in her tranquil voice ; "I remember."
And after a just perceptible pause, she added
perfectly."

That " perfectly " disconcerted him a little, and
checked a sentence on his lips. As a rule it is
not a perfect but a discriminating memory which
we desire to find in our friends. Gilbert asked
himself whether there was a touch of ironical
meaning in her words, or only a frank simplicity.
It's a long while ago ! " he said. It was a safe
remark to make and not an original one. Yet
something in his accent made it sound almost like
an entreaty.

VOL. I. R

Mrs. Austin smiled. " It's a very long while
ago. These young people were in the nursery
then, I suppose, and now their turn has come
round."

Do we only have one turn ? " said Gilbert,
looking down and touching the end of the shawl
which trailed on the short dry turf.

Ah, that I can't say ! " she answered lightly.
How can I tell what Fate may have in store for
you ? I fancy you are younger than I am now."

No, no ! " he exclaimed. " But tell me  am
I much changed ? "

Her eyes rested on him in smiling scrutiny.
No," she said ; " I think you have changed very
little indeed."

You are right," he said, after a pause. " I am
very little changed. And you ? "

What do you think ? "

South quitted his lounging attitude and sat up.
"That's a question I can't answer. You are
changed, and yet I fancy you are not changed.
You were only a girl, you know "

And now I'm an old woman ! "

He winced as if the words hurt him. " Don't
say that ! Not even as a joke ! "

Oh, I beg your pardon ! " she retorted. " I
remember now I am a year and a half younger
than you."

Oh, you may call me what you like," said
Gilbert. "I can assure you I feel old enough
sometimes  detestably, flatly, hopelessly old ! "
He spoke quickly and passionately ; the sunshine
lighted his fair handsome features, and the description
of himself which was absurd in connection
with his actual years was rendered more
obviously so by the fact that, apart from a certain
expression of face, Gilbert South was a very young-looking
man. He had the air of being conscious
of every moment of his past life. One would have
said that he continually "added up the mortal
amount " of days, weeks, and years which he had
spent on earth, and carried the total in his weary
thoughts. And all the time it seemed as if he
only wanted a touch of something not easy to

define, of hopefulness, perhaps, or passion, or even
defiance, to make him as young as he was at five
and twenty. It was hardly wanting as he turned
to Mrs. Austin. " Say what you please of me !
It doesn't matter. But don't say it of yourself.
If you "

The sentence was never finished. " I believe
those two are actually going to leave off playing''
he said in a tone of gentle acquiescence in the
decrees of destiny.

When the time came for the party to set out on
their excursion to the Castle, Frank saw them off
with an anxious solicitude for their comfort, which
pleased his mother very much. Tiny, behind the
scenes, remarked it too, and said to herself that
Frank could afford to be very polite since he was
going to get rid of his two bores for the whole
afternoon. She liked the politeness none the less
for her knowledge of her cousin's motive, and
nodded him a bright farewell as she took her
place in the carriage.

To the last moment young Leicester was apparently

troubled with misgivings about his ruin.
You'll remember that it's a very little one," he
said to Mrs. Austin, while his mother was arranging
herself and her many shawls.

Do you know that you are really heightening
my expectations ? " she replied. " When were you
there last ? I hope nobody has taken a fancy toit
since then and put it in his pocket."

Frank laughed. " I hope not," he said. "Tiny
can find it for you, if it's still there. She knows
where to look for it."

Where to look for what ? " Mrs. Leicester
inquired. "Wild flowers? We are quite ready,
tell them, Frank." And they drove off.

As soon as they were beyond the park gates
Mrs. Austin was called upon to admire the scenery.
Of course, we don't pretend to have any wonderful
hills and rocks and waterfalls and things,"
said Mrs. Leicester. " But it is just the kind of
landscape I like  so simple and English and
homelike. Look at that bit of path and that
stile, now  wouldn't it make a sweet little watercolour

picture ? With a pretty girl, you know, oran
old woman in a red cloak."

It struck Mrs. Austin that the stile, or any
number of stiles exactly like it, had been so
wearisomely fitted with simpering rustics that the
suggestion was unnecessary. Mrs. Leicester,
however, obviously prided herself on the idea as
an original one. " And I like this up and down
much better than those very steep hills  they
make such endless trouble with the horses," the
good lady went on. She smiled kindly round on
everything, and seemed to settle herself comfortably
in the country as if it had been made to suit
her. And indeed if it had been designed with
that intention it would hardly have been different.

Mrs. Austin was civil though not enthusiastic
in her reply. She would have preferred something
wilder and more hilly ; but, then, the sleek
chestnuts were not her horses. Or, failing that,
she would have had the pretty little undulations
which pleased Mrs. Leicester abolished altogether.
She would have liked to drive swiftly forward

over wide lonely levels with the great arch of sky
overhead. She did not appreciate the carefully
kept hedges, enclosing stubble and turnips, nor
the prim little plantations which looked like
preparatory schools for young trees, nor the small
spire which rose with an air of the utmost decorum
above a neat churchyard.

There is Frank !" said Tiny Vivian.

They all turned to look at the distant figure,
which Tiny, who knew the road that he would
take, had recognised. Frank was seen for a moment
on a gentle ascent and then lost behind a clump
of trees, but the glimpse remained with Mrs.
Austin as a little picture. She did not know
why it was that the words " the only son of his
mother, and she was a widow," came into her
head as he rode away, but she realised all at once
how precious the kindly, handsome, commonplace
young fellow was in his own home. Mrs. Austin,
as she sat absently looking at Frank's bit of road,
was thinking of a baby's little grave, closed ten
years earlier over a life too short to be borne in

anybody's mind but hers. " The only son of his
mother." And when she died the little memory
could interest no one but the busy people who
count up births and deaths and take pleasure in
averages. Even for her it had no individuality
that could be expressed in words, though she
would not have parted with it for all that life
could give.

Meanwhile the carriage rolled smoothly on,
and she looked right and left at all the views that
were pointed out to her till Mrs. Leicester was
able to announce, with proud excitement, "And
there  no, not there  a little farther  no, that
tree is in the way for a moment  there! novo,
don't you see a bit of the Castle wall ! Don't you,
Mr. South ? Just beyond the field where the cow is."

Two minutes later they pulled up by the roadside,
at the point nearest to the ruins, and the
party set out to walk the brief remainder of the
way. There was no difficulty in finding the
Castle. It stood, together with a small haystack,
in the corner of a dreary little field, and consisted

of part of a tower, a few scattered fragments of
stone, and the broken remains of a bit of low
Avail. "No doubt," said Mrs. Leicester, "it once
extended much farther, and was a magnificent
building." She added dignity to the bit of wall
by calling it the 'rampart." South, who assented
to all her views, called it so too, as soon as he
found out what she meant, and delighted her by
suggesting the possibility of discovering foundations
with the help of a little judicious digging.
The good lady sat down on a fallen ,stone to consider
the idea, while he undertook to walk round
the ruins and inspect them more thoroughly.
For this purpose he joined the other two, who
were gazing up at the tower. " I don't know
anything about it except that it is very old," Miss
Vivian was saying as he came up. She looked a
little doubtfully at Gilbert, as if she suspected
him of possibly making fun of Culverdale Castle,
which no one but Frank had any business to do,
but after a minute she slipped quietly away and
left him with Mrs. Austin.

"And what do you think of it ?" he said.

She smiled. " Perhaps it would be more
cheerful if there were more of it. It strikes meas
the most melancholy little ruin I ever saw.
It's a mercy the sun is shining."

It is melancholy," he said, looking round at
the flat green meadow. The tower was of a
blackish gray, crusted with lichen ; the grass at
its foot was rank, the spreading docks grew
coarsely from the ill-drained soil, and a sluggish
little stream crawled a little way off.

People talk of fortresses frowning," said Mrs.
Austin ; " I think this would if it could. There's
a touch of malice about it, though it is too petty
to threaten."

"It isn't amiable-looking," said Gilbert, with
an air of entire conviction. He knew what he
was expected to say, though in truth he was not
thinking much about the Castle. They strolled a
little farther, and when they reached the wall he
made a careful survey of the other side.

"What are you looking f or ? " Mrs. Austin inquired.

He laughed a little consciously. " Walls have
ears, they say. It's true this might be deaf by
now  it's old enough."

She raised her eyes to his face. "Does it
matter whether it's deaf or not ? "

Well, yes ; I think it does. There might bea
country bumpkin asleep on the grass. We
might wake him up."

If I understand country bumpkins, we should
be doing him a service."

Gilbert stood smiling and pulling his moustache,
as if he were calling up a half-remembered scene.
Once I thought myself alone," he said, " utterly
alone. That was in a ruin, too, a long while ago,
and I  well, I recited some poetry. Suddenly I
felt an impulse to look behind a pillar, and there
was a brute, in a cheap travelling suit, grinning
from ear to ear. I had a great mind to kill him."

You didn't, I hope ?" said Mrs. Austin, sitting
down on a broken bit of wall and putting up her
parasol. "!N"ot but what there are plenty of
people in cheap travelling suits."

"Neo, I took off my hat to him, and walked
away. I didn't kill him, but I think I might as
well ; he couldn't have haunted me worse. However,
it taught me caution."

"So it seems. And you are going to recite
poetry now?"

10 ; I don't think I am. At least  yes. I
am going to talk about Cornwall."

"Is that poetry?"

Isn't it ? " said Gilbert, coming a step nearer.
"Or, rather, wasn't it?"

Perhaps in King Arthur's days."

"In no days of your own?  of our own?" he
persisted, in a low voice. " If the old time at
West Hill wasn't poetry, there has been none in
my life. You said this morning you had not
forgotten it ? "

No," she answered, " I have not ; but if that
were poetry, it strikes me that the volume was
closed and laid away a long while ago."

It is true," said South. " You needn't remind
me that I was the first to close it. I'm not likely

to forget that ! But, for the sake of those old
Cornish days, I want you to let me say a word of
explanation."

Mrs. Austin shook her head with a smile that
was half-hopeless, half-compassionate. " No, no ;
there is no need of explanation  do not let us
have any. You make me repeat myself," she
added lightly. " I told Mr. Leicester this morning
that I objected to explanations."

South arched his brows. " It seems to me that
it was early for Mr. Leicester to be trying to
explain himself!"

Possibly. And for you it is  late." Her tone
was very kind as she went on. "Do you not see
that if I had misunderstood you all these years,
you could hardly set me right now ? But I don't
think I did misunderstand you; and for proof of it
we were to be friends ; and we are friends, I hope."

"It was all my fault," said South; "and to
think that I never saw you from the day we
parted at West Hill till yesterday ! Tell me
what you thought of me after I went."

She met his glance, but evaded his question.
"There was no fault in the matter. Don't you
remember we were to be quite free ? You had a
right to change your mind, and so had I."

"I was a fool! I was a raw boy  I was
flattered ; and she never meant anything ! "

Mrs. Austin made a quick sign with her hand.
"Oh, let it all rest!" she said. "You wrote
afterwards ; you did explain all that there was to
explain. It was then that we agreed to be friends.
Let us keep to that. As you say, it was only a
boy and girl affair." She rose as she spoke, but
Gilbert followed her.

It is hard," he said. " My best wouldn't have
been good enough ; and it is you, of aU people in
the world, who know the worst of me."

She stopped, looked him in the face, and
smiled. " It isn't very bad," she said, in her
gentle voice; and South felt himself a feather-weight
in the scale, whether for good or evil.

He was silent, but with so unsatisfied an
expression that it was evident he only lacked

words for the moment, and would seek to speak
again later. Mrs. Austin anticipated him.

"Were you out of your teens when we said
Good-bye ' ? Well, not much more, at any rate.
Our real lives have been since then. I think
people ought to keep their consciences in two or
three compartments, and shut the lid down on all
such bygone shortcomings. I am glad we have
met again, if only to shake hands and say simply
that we have outgrown old follies."

Gilbert looked down. " I was to have been a
hero," he said bitterly. " Do you remember ?"

Oh, I lived in King Arthur's Cornwall in
those days  in Camelot and Tintagel," she replied.
"No doubt you were to have been Galahad, or
Percival at the very least. I expected the most
wonderful things of all my friends."

"I think you did." He hesitated for a
moment. " Are you more merciful now ? " he
asked, in a tone which was between jest and
earnest.

Oh yes," was the ready answer ; " I'm greatly

changed. I can assure you that now I expect
very little."

They were walking slowly at a little distance
from the tower, and as the last words were spoken
they caught sight of Tiny Vivian. She appeared
to be intently studying the old stones. The
dreary little nook in which she stood, pulling an
ivy spray from the crumbling masonry, framed a
picture of youth, full of delicate grace and hope.
South gazed for a moment, and then turned to
Mrs. Austin with a faint laugh. " She is in her
teens still," he said.

When Frank came back from Bridge End that
evening he found a bunch of ivy-leaves on his
dressing-table. They had evidently been carefully
chosen for variety of shape and colour, and were
very daintily arranged. He uttered an impatient
exclamation when he caught sight of the significant
little bouquet, and stood looking at it with a
frown. He knew that his cousin had stolen in
during his absence, and left it as a token that
Gilbert South had had his turn that afternoon.



0/

OF THE

U University

Of ILLINOIS

nir;S*JiH"' *"'* ""*'''"'"9 of books are reasons for disciplinary
action and may result in dismissal from the University
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400 ""'rsity.

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

SEP 1 8 J996

Loci O-1096

MRS. AUSTIN

LIZZIE'S BARGAIN

MRS. AUSTIN

LIZZIE'S BARGAIN

BY

Margaret VELEY

AUTHOR OF ' MITCHELHURST PLACE,' ETC.

VOL. II.

London

Macmillan AND CO

And NEW YORK



AH rights reserved.

V,f

CONTENTS

PAGE

Mrs. Austin  continued . 1

Lizzie's Bargain 77

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/gardenofmemories02vele

III

Mrs. Leicester troubled herself very little about
lier matchmaking. When she happened to observe
Mrs. Austin and Mr. South she thought they
seemed to be very good friends ; and when they
were out of sight she supposed that they were together
somewhere and getting on nicely. She did
not quite know what she would get them for a
wedding present, but she determined to run upto
town with Frank and look about her. There
were sure to be pretty things in the shops. Meanwhile
she was very well satisfied. Frank seemed
all right, and, that being so, Mrs. Leicester hardly
noticed that, as the days went by, his little cousin
VOL. ir. B

was not quite her simple, happy self of a fortnight
earlier, and that these two, who had been such
allies, were no longer on their old footing.

Gilbert made no attempt to resume the talk
which was broken off in the ruined castle. He
appeared to have tacitly accepted Mrs. Austin's
offer of friendship without explanations ; and
though from time to time he would turn to her
with some allusion to the past, some "Do you
remember?" which sent her thoughts away from
Culverdale to scenes where he alone could follow,
he touched always on those earlier recollections
which needed no apology from him and no pardon
from her. She would answer readily enough ;
but Gilbert, who remembered the time when she
believed in him, was apt to imagine a delicate yet
unmistakable irony in her untroubled smile. To
Frank it revealed a wonderful, far-off tranquillity ;
but then Frank was very much in love. Mrs.
Austin had opened his eyes, and he was prepared
to spend his life in a rapturous study of this first
miracle. He felt himself at a disadvantage with

regard to South, who could look back to a past
in which she had a share, instead of a degrading
memory of measles and extreme youth ; yet, in
spite of his humility, he was not unhappy. Mrs.
Austin could not fail to perceive his devotion, but
she never for one moment supposed that there
was anything serious or lasting in it. It seemed
to her like a little nosegay of spring flowers, which
she might accept with a gracious word of thanks,
and she was touched by the thought of its very
transitoriness. She was very kind to Frank.
Within a week she had learnt his ways and looks
and words as one might learn the few simple notes
of a bird in one's garden ; and yet they pleased
her better than a more elaborate performance.
Poor fellow ! " she would say to herself, with a
half whimsical regret, "it is not my fault  I
cannot help it ; but if he only knew Jiovj young
he seems to me, how he would hate me !" There,
however, she was wrong. Frank would have
forgiven her even that.

The warm September days slipped away one

after the other, and the only thing of which the
young lover could complain was that they were
shortened in a quite unjustifiable way, which was
not mentioned in the almanac. The sun was slow
to rise ; but when once breakfast-time had arrived,
he rushed across the heavens, went headlong down
the west, and Frank found himself dressing for
dinner, with the certainty that only a few short
hours parted him from bedtime. It is true that
the nights had grown long, so long that they could
not all be spent in sleep. His light burned late,
and even when it was extinguished it did not
follow that he was at rest. Sometimes he was
star-gazing. He had never taken such particular
notice of the stars before, but they attracted him
now because they reminded him of Mrs. Austin.
He had made the discovery that certain things 
besides old teapots  were in harmony with Mrs.
Austin, and consequently possessed something of
her charm ; and he was beginning a classification
of the contents of the universe, as tried by this
test. He felt that the midnight sky was very

sublime, and that he himself was absurdly unimportant.
How could he become more worthy of
notice ? What sort of destinies used people to
fancy they read in the stars ? Frank, as he leaned
against his window and fixed his eyes upon the
far-off points of light, reflected that in all probability
he would be High Sheriff one of these days.
He wondered whether Mrs. Austin would like a
man to be Sheriff. But that would only be fora
year. Perhaps it would be better to try to
get into Parliament. There was a neighbouring
borough which was something of a forlorn hope 
he might try that. There must be an election
before long ; perhaps Mrs. Austin would comedown,
wear his colours, encourage his supporters,
and rejoice in his victory. Only  confound it ! 
the ballot had spoilt all the fun, and there was no
chance of a real good contest, such as they used
to have in old times, when the flags were flying,
the money going, and the agents outwitting each
other for days together. He would have liked the
gathering excitement of a prolonged battle ; he

would not even have minded a little rioting ; in
fact, an unfriendly mob, howling down any attempt
at speech, and to be confronted only with good-humoured
coolness and the superior manners of a
gentleman, seemed less terrible to Frank than
cold-blooded voters asking questions about his
views on unexpected subjects. Nevertheless, for
Mrs. Austin's sake, he would face even that ordeal.
He remembered, moreover, that the father of one
of the neighbouring landowners had been made a
baronet  why might not he be made a baronet ?
It is true that, for his own part, he had no especial
desire to be called "Sir Francis," but "Lady
Leicester" seemed to him a name not unworthy
to be uttered softly, at night, in the presence of
the stars.

Mrs. Austin knew nothing of these soaring
dreams, which only awaited a word from her lips"
to become serious intentions. She had no particular
ambition on Frank's behalf; in fact, the
young squire and his surroundings seemed to her
almost ideally perfect. The very heaviness of life

at Coverdale pleased her; there was something
solid, respectable, and sincere about it ; a sense of
prosperous restfulness and security rooted deeply
in the earth that she found charming  for a fortnight.
She liked to walk with Frank under his
spreading trees, and call up faint visions of wives
and sisters of bygone squires, who had known
those great trunks as slender saplings, and lived
and died under their gradually widening shadows.
She could even find names for a few of these
phantoms, for she had been to the neat little
church (Frank's father had restored it), and had
seen their monuments, with urns, and cherubs,
and festoons of marble drapery, upon the walls.
It was strange to look at Frank, with the sunshine
glancing through a little lancet window on his
head, and to think that he too would have a tablet
on these neat cold walls one day, and that other
guests would stay at the Hall, and come on Sundays
and study it during service time. Frank, at
her elbow, read the responses, with a consciousness
of his importance to the Established Church,

which might have been absurd if it had not been
so simple and honest. He sat through the sermon
in an attitude expressive of deeper interest than
Mrs. Austin found practicable. How was she to
know that the whole of that discourse, as the
young man heard it, was about herself?

For her own part, she had dreams, but, less
happy than Frank, her dreams were of the past
instead of the future. When Gilbert South had
asked her if she remembered the old time at West
Hill, she had answered, " Perfectly." It was quite
true ; the picture was there, but it had not been
called up for years as his words called it up.
Even when he did not speak, the knowledge that
it was continually in his thoughts seemed to give
it a kind of independent existence. Mrs. Austin
found herself recalling it in idle moments, and
dwelling on all manner of little incidents and
details which had been thrust into the background
by later events. The old house and garden rose
up before her as she knew them in her childish
days ; the gateway hung with ive, the apple-tree.

under her bedroom window, warped, and leaning
away from the strong west winds ; the countless
blossoms of narcissus and daffodil in early spring.
She remembered the hoarse roar of the sea as she
lay in bed on stormy nights, the shrieking of the
hurrying gusts, the fierce lashing of the driven
drops upon the pane, and then the stillness and
the rain-washed sweetness of the morning when
she woke. It all came back to her, even to the
tufts of fern, and the small green leaf-cups growing
on the garden wall ; but it came back with
that peculiar charm of tender remembrance which,
combining many impressions of that which we
have lost, creates one more beautiful than all.
She saw it with a deeper colour in the sea, a
wilder splendour of sunsets, a pearly clearness in
the morning sky, and a wonderful purity in the
lucid depths of air. More than once since she
came to Culverdale it had chanced to her, falling
asleep at night, while poor Frank was seeking his
fortune in the stars, to dream that she saw Gilbert
coming towards her along the grassy path. It

was almost impossible to wake from such a
dream, and not to look with curious interest at
the real man when he came down to breakfast.

With all these preoccupations it was hardly
surprising that Mrs. Austin did not give much
thought to Tiny Vivian, beyond a vague and
general goodwill, which the girl did not return.
Tiny had never changed her mind about Mrs.
Austin. " I said I shouldn't like her, and I don't,"
she triumphantly repeated one day as she stood
talking to Frank.

"It's a fine thing to be consistent, isn't it?"
said Frank drily.

"It's much better than changing one's mind
for ever. I can't see anything so very wonderful
about her. Of course she has been good-looking,
but so have lots of people, according to what they
say. And anybody might talk in that affected
way, as if her words were much more precious
than anybody else's. It makes me cross."

"So I see."

I could talk like that, and walk like that

MRS. AUSTIN 11

too ! Look here." And Tiny swept round the
room in an imitation of Mrs. Austin, which would
have been very tolerable to anybody but Frank.

"Oh, of course!" he said. "That's always the
way. Let one woman get hold of another, and
one knows what to expect."

And pray what does one expect ? "

"Well, neither justice nor mercy. I suppose
you can't help it."

Oh, indeed ! " said Tiny. " Then I should like
to know what Mrs. Austin says of me I "

As far as I know she doesn't say anything,"
he answered coolly.

Tiny was pained at Frank's manner, but she
looked him in the face and smiled only the more
resolutely. " No," she said, " of course she
doesn't. That's just what I say. She's awfully
stuck up and cold. I can quite understand her
jilting Mr. South."

"How do you know she did jilt Mr. South?"
he inquired in an irritating tone.

"Why, Frank, didn't she go and marry that

other man ? Of course she jilted him, and she'd
do it again just as likely as not, only I hope he
won't give her the chance. He's worth fifty of her !
Oh my goodness ! " Tiny exclaimed with a hurst of
defiant laughter, 'what a regiment that would be !"
It was quite right that Tiny should speak up
for Mr. South, since but for him she would have
stood a chance of being somewhat neglected.
Gilbert, however, would not suffer that. Apart
from the fact that he found Tiny very fascinating,
with her great eager eyes, her quick smiles, and
the supreme charm of being still in her teens, he
could never endure to see any one slighted. His
nature was sweet and kindly to the core, and he
was always ready to give the sympathy, which, to
say the truth, he required rather lavishly. He
liked to talk about himself in tones of confidential
melancholy, slightly dashed with bitterness. But
he would talk to you just as readily about yourself,
showing a gentle warmth of interest which
was flattering and agreeable. This kind of thing
was new to Tiny. Frank was not in the habit of

saying much about his inner feelings, and certainly
would not have known what to make of Tiny's if
she had attempted to express them. Perhaps the
girl had been less conscious of having such feelings
to express before Mr. South came. It was new to
her, too, being accustomed to play a subordinate
part, in consequence of youth and inexperience, to
meet with some one who considered youthful
impressions of far greater value than the dull and
blunted opinions of middle age. The squires and
rectors about Culverdale did not express such
views, nor did their wives and daughters set such
value on the artless ideas of a girl who had been
nowhere and known nobody. Tiny in a simple
unthinking way had loved the country lanes and
meadows among which she had been brought up,
but with Mr. South's arrival came a quickened
consciousness of their beauty and of her feelings
about them. She was already a little less simple
in consequence of his worship of simplicity, and
her great brown eyes were more eager, and sometimes
more thoughtful.

The time passed on till Mrs. Austin's visit was
within three days of its close. She was to leave
Culverdale on the Thursday, and this was the
Monday evening, when a garden-party at the
house of some friends of the Leicesterss ended in
an impromptu dance. Gilbert came up to her as
she sat fanning herself, and watching the revolving
couples. She shook her head in answer to his
request. "Don't ask me," she said. "I haven't
danced for years." And she glanced, not without
a touch of amusement, at Frank, who had already
been rejected, and who stood a little way off, very
erect and melancholy.

"Why not?" said Gilbert.

My dancing days are over," she replied simply.
Go and dance with some of these young people.
I see plenty of pretty girls who will be quite ready
for a new partner."

He neither moved nor answered, and she turned
her head and looked up at him from her low chair.
He stood by her side with downcast eyes, pulling
his moustache with what would have looked

MRS. AUSTIN 15

almost like an air of irritation, if she had not
known that he was never really out of temper.
His expression and attitude reminded her of old
days, when he was apt to be offended for a moment
because some one had laughed at him, and he
never liked to be laughed at. But after a brief
pause she looked at him more attentively. Old
use had taught her to read Gilbert's face like an
open book, more readily than any other face on
earth, yet there was something perplexing in it
now. Did he care so much to dance with her ?
She leaned back and waited, knowing that he was
sure to speak before long.

It is always the same thing," he said presently.
"This is over, and that is over. And when I
remember you everything was just beginning."

But that was a long while ago  as I think we
have frequently remarked."

Gilbert's eyes were fixed on a bit of scarlet
geranium which had fallen on the floor. " Yes,"
he said, " I have missed everything somehow."

One would think you were a second Eip van

Winkle, you seem to find it so hard to realise the
lapse of time. You haven't by chance been asleep
for a dozen years or so, have you?"

Upon my word I don't know. I think
perhaps I may have been." He moved the bit of
red blossom with his foot, and studied it under its
new aspect. " Asleep and dreaming perhaps," he
said in a low voice.

Well," Mrs. Austin replied, " as far as I am
concerned there is no great difficulty. Since you
know the year in which I was born, you have
only to buy an almanac, or to look at the top of
a newspaper, and I think you will be able to
calculate that I am thirty-seven."

Oh, I know that very well. You will not let
me forget it."

Will not let you forget it ? Could you forget
it if I would let you ?"

Sto," said South, lowering his voice still more.
I don't suppose I could. I have learnt my lesson,
I think. But I can swear to you that I never
remembered it till you taught me."

MRS. AUSTIN 17

The music stopped abruptly as he spoke, and
seemed to make a sudden vacancy in the air, into
which there poured a confused murmur of voices
and sweeping of dresses as the dancers strolled by.
Among them, with a carmine flush on her soft
brown cheek, went Tiny Vivian, and raised her
long lashes for one brilliant glance as she passed.
"Miss Vivian looks especially well to-night,"
Mrs. Austin remarked, looking after her, and
Gilbert murmured some reply, but the expression
which had perplexed his companion deepened on
his face. Her attention was distracted for a
moment by the arrival of the master of the
house, a stout white whiskered old gentleman, who
benignantly expressed the opinion that it was a
pleasant sight to see the young people enjoying
themselves. When she had agreed with him as
completely as he could wish, she looked quickly
round, but the tall figure had vanished from her
side.

He had gone away to follow once more a useless
round of thought which had grown drearily

VOL. II. c

III

familiar to him of late. He was haunted by the
memories which he had called up. He had tried
to bring them to life again, and instead they flitted
round him like mocking ghosts, to be seen but
never to be touched. Those happy days in
Cornwall were like the opening of a poem, but it
had ended in the flattest and feeblest prose. At
twenty he was to have been a hero, at thirty-nine
he was nothing, and he knew that he never
would be anything. The experience was not remarkable,
but in most cases the contrast is
rendered endurable by the gentle influence of
time. We become accustomed to it before it is
so terribly defined, and half forget the splendour
of the starting-point before we reach the pitiful
goaL But South was not so fortunate. He saw
them both, and saw them always, in Mildred's
eyes.

As he stood by the door gazing idly round, his
glance suddenly encountered Tiny Vivian's. She
looked at him as if she dimly divined his trouble,
but turned away her head the moment he noticed

her, and yet that swift glance, with its vague
proffer of sympathy, came like a ray of light into
his dull perplexity. Tiny's eyes, at least, had no
reflection of a mocking past in them, and never
told him that he was a failure.

It happens occasionally that an unexpected chill
will suddenly depress us, an undefinable blight
which seems to come from nowhere in particular
and to be everywhere. The weather may have
something to do with it, but the chill is within us
as well as without, and the outward aspect of
things can only emphasise its dreariness.

Something of the kind befell the inhabitants of
the Manor House on the Tuesday morning. Everyone
was dull, the sky was clouded, and the world
seemed to have grown old. Gilbert South had a
harassed and weary expression, Tiny owned to a
headache, Mrs. Leicester was worried by the
knowledge that fifteen people were coming to
dinner, and that she must keep awake all the

MKS. AUSTIN 21

evening, and Frank was conscious of nothing but
the shadow of Mrs. Austin's approaching departure.
Mrs. Austin herself was inclined to think that she
had had more than enough of Culverdale. She
had never known a place which depended so much
on the sunshine for what beauty it possessed, and, in
the uniformly diffused shadow, the low-lying park
and the meadows with their lines of hedge and ditch
oppressed her with a sense of unendurable
monotony. There was really nothing to distinguish
one enclosure from another, unless it were the
presence of cows or sheep. One would have said
that the soil of Frank's inheritance was heavy
with the dulness of many generations, which rose
on sunless days like an exhalation, not precisely
poisonous, since good family feelings and respectable
virtues would take no harm in it, but far too
dense for winged and delicate fancies. Consequently
there was no chance of escaping from it
even in thought. In truth there seemed no limit
to its influence. Mrs. Austin, while she dressed,
looked across the river to the village, and saw how

the church stood solidly planted among its white
gravestones, and pointed with a sharp little spire
to a gray and dreary region on high. It was
hardly an encouraging prospect.

Frank, poor fellow, suffered from her depression.
He was too closely connected with his surroundings
to be a congenial companion on such a
day ; his acres burdened him and dragged him
down, and he found her not unkind, but languid
and cold. Gilbert South might perhaps have
called up other scenes and times by the mere
sound of his voice, but he was silent at breakfast-time,
and disappeared almost immediately afterwards.
It was vaguely understood that he had
important letters to write. And, after all, Mrs.
Austin was not very sure that she needed any
company. As she sat in the drawing-room, turning
the pages of a novel as an excuse for silence,
she half-unconsciously followed a thread of thought
which stretched backward to her girlish days
and onward to her future. She was still pursuing
it in the afternoon when she drove with Tiny

Vivian to the neighbouring town to make some
purchases for Mrs. Leicester.

The little town remained in her memory as a
picture, as places sometimes do, which, being seen
but once, in one mood and under one aspect, are
not blurred and confused by conflicting impressions.
The sullen clouds were as much a part of it as
the foot-worn pavement, and a man with an organ*
grinding a tune which had been popular a season
or two before, was just as important as the vicar
who went by with a bundle of little tracts and
bowed to Miss Vivian. The carriage stopped and
went on as Tiny dh'ectecl, the tradesmen started
out of their shops as if somebody had pulled a
string, and stood bareheaded and smiling at the
door while she consulted Mrs. Leicester's list of
commissions. At one place she went in, and Mrs
Austin was left alone in a little square. The Town
Hall was there, erected mdcccxliii., and there
also was a drinking-fountain with an inscription
which she could not read. The great clock overhead
struck four like a knell, and startled her just

as she was thinking that Gilbert South certainly

was not a hero, and yet And a moment later

Tiny came out and said " Home " to the coachman.

They did not talk much as they drove back.
When the lodge-keeper swung the gate open at
the sound of their approach, it occurred to Mrs.
Austin to wonder what Tiny had been thinking
about so intently all the time.

That evening, after dinner, South came to her,
and stood for a few minutes turning over some
photographs which lay at her elbow. One of
them was of a place which he knew and she did
not, and in answer to a question of hers he described
it. He pressed his hand on the table ashe
spoke, and a white scar across one of his fingers
stood out more prominently and caught Mrs.
Austin's eye.

That cut of yours left a mark," she said, when
he had finished. "How frightened I was  do
you remember ?"

Gilbert looked first at his hand and then at her
with a strange, startled expression, almost as if he

felt a throb of pain in his old wound. " Yes," he
said, " I remember." And all at once the colour
came into his face as if he were a boy again.
I was cutting a stick for your brother Jack," he
added hurriedly, "and the knife slipped. Your
mother tied it up for me."

Yes, we found her in her storeroom. I think
Jack thought you were going to die." Mrs
Austin, for a moment, instead of seeing seven or
eight country gentlemen, most of them bald, and
as many ladies, grouped in the Culverdale drawing-room,
saw a sunshiny room, full of shelves and
cupboards and boxes, where, her mother, with
capable hands, was bandaging that finger of
Gilbert's, while Jack (poor fellow ! he died at
school) stood looking on, scared at first, and then,
when he found that mother could set it all right,
a little aggrieved because after all he hadn't got
his stick. Oh, how long ago it all was, and how
sadly the old home was broken up ! She would
have liked to take Gilbert's left hand in hers and
hold it, just for the sake of that little scar and the

dear people who were dead. And how deeply the
memory of that time touched him ! Why did he
colour up so suddenly at her question and turn
away? Was there something special about this
one incident ? All at once it struck her that
hitherto it had been Gilbert, and not she, who had
said "Do you remember?" Was he so pleased
that she should say it ? She recollected, too, that
it was while he still had his hand bandaged that
he spoke to her one evening by the white roses.
and she promised to wait for him till he should
come back to the old home. Perhaps that remembrance
had called up his blush. Poor Gilbert,
could he never forget his boyish inconstancy ?

Mrs. Leicester heaved a deep sigh of relief when
her guests were gone. "Dear me!" she said
suddenly to Mrs. Austin, "is tomorrow really
your last day with us ? What are you all going
to do tomorrow ? "

There was a pause. " Are not we going to row
down the river to some farmhouse ? " Mrs. Austin
inquired, looking round.

To old Green's," said Frank.

"Speak for yourself, my dear," said Mrs.
Leicester, laughing and nodding. " You don't
catch me rowing' down rivers. I shall have to die
some day, I suppose, but there are plenty of ways
of doing it without being drowned."

"Drowned?" Mrs. Austin repeated, with a
glance at Frank.

My mother wouldn't venture on a ditch in a
lifeboat without making her will and saying goodbye
to me," he answered.

"No," Mrs. Leicester replied, in a tone of
cheerful assent. " I'm a coward about the water.
It's a very good thing everybody isn't like me.
I'm sure I should never have found America or
Australia or any of those places."

"No," said Frank, "nor the Isle of Wight.
You might have seen it was there, like the
moon."

I thought you said you must go to the Carle-tons
tomorrow," said Tiny in a low voice to
Mrs. Leicester.

"Good gracious, so I must. I forgot. And
you must go there with me, you know."

"I won't drown you, if you'll trust me," said
Frank to Mrs. Austin.

I'm not afraid," she smiled. " But you see it
seems as if nobody would be able to go."

You said you should like it," Frank persisted,
turning his back to the others, and looking fixedly
at her.

It would be very pleasant if it is a fine day,"
she replied quietly. " But I don't want you to go
entirely for me. I thought we were all going."

I am going anyhow," he said, " tomorrow or
the next day. I want to speak to Green. Of
course you will do what you like best. I thought
you said you would like it."

I am so sorry I must take Tiny," said Mrs.
Leicester. " Old Mrs. Carleton is her godmother,
and she wants to see her, so I really must. What
will you do ? "Will you come with us, or will you
go with Frank ? I'm sure he is always very careful,
and of course there isn't any danger really."

MRS. AUSTIN 29

Mrs. Austin had no desire to make Frank
miserable on the last day of her stay. " Oh, I
should like the row very much 'if it is fine," she
said.

"That's settled then," said Mrs. Leicester
cheerfully. "Mr. South, if there's nothing you
want to do tomorrow, I'm sure we shall either of
us be very pleased if you'll join us."

Frank scowled. But Gilbert, while he professed
his delighted readiness to go anywhere or do anything,
had not the slightest intention of proposing
to make one of the water party. He was convinced
that it would be fraught with peril  for him.
That hot-headed boy would certainly do his best
to upset me into the river if I interfered with his
arrangements," he said to himself. " If he could
contrive to give me a ducking, without splashing
her, it would fill his soul with pure delight."
Gilbert thought he would cal on old Mrs. Carleton,
who was unlikely to indulge in any such pranks.

Mrs. Leicester was really sorry that she was
obliged to break up the party on this last day.

She could not see for her part why Mildred and
Mr. South had not settled matters a week ago,
and enjoyed themselves comfortably as an engaged
couple, taking their share of privileges and joking
remarks. But she supposed it was to be put off
till the end of Mildred's visit, and she was anxious
to give Gilbert a chance of coming to the point.
She had noticed that Frank seemed to prefer Mrs.
Austin to Mr. South, and was inclined to bestow
the attention which should have been divided
between his guests entirely on her. Frank was
inconsiderate at times, but she would give him a
quiet hint to leave the two to themselves when
they came back from their respective expeditions.
Gilbert South, unconscious of her beneficent
schemes, woke the next morning to a dreary
certainty that his visit to Culverdale had been a
mistake from first to last. For years he had
remembered Mildred Fairfax as the truest, the
most loving, the most beautiful of womankind.
He had dreamed of seeing her again, their meeting
had been the one desirable possibility of his life.

At last it had come ; and he had found her no
longer young, beautiful still in her widowhood, but
pale, calm, clear-sighted, self-possessed, putting
aside his attempt to utter his repentance with
gentle words about friendship. Frank might well
worship her in his boyish fashion ; he was quite
right, he had never seen Mildred Fairfax. But
for his own part, Gilbert, had he known her
intentions, instead of gratefully blessing good
Mrs. Leicester, would rather have been inclined
to complain to her, very ungratefully and unjustly,
" You have

Unsettled the pure picture in my mind ;
A girl, she was so perfect, so distinct.
. . I detest all change,
And most a change in aught I loved long since."

That was the worst of it. He could not even go
back to his dream. Call them up as he would
with anxious efforts, his memories of his old love
had been slowly dying, day by day, ever since he
came to Culverdale. The actual recollections remained
cold, dead facts, but nothing more. There

were moments when Tiny Vivian, just because of
her youth and hopefulness, seemed nearer the true
spirit of his former love than Mrs. Austin. It
was not unnatural. If we idealise the past, and
most of us do, there is an interval after which old
books should not be reopened, old haunts should
not be revisited, nor old loves sought out, except
with a deliberate dew to disenchantment. We
expect too much. No sjnnpathy is so perfect as
that which we imagine. And Gilbert South had

o

been especially fanciful and dreamy in his recollections.
He had had, as it were, just a glimpse
of Mildred's pure, girlish love, and then he had been
drawn away by a woman older than himself who
wanted a little amusement. He had been made a
fool of, coarsely, by a practised flirt. Afterwards
he attempted to go back ; he wrote a dozen letters
of explanation and repentance, and of course sent
off the worst. It was a failure, and partly in
pique, partly in real disgust at himself, for he had
a delicate taste, and his first faithlessness left an
unpleasant flavour in his mouth, he swore constancy

to Mildred's memory as he supposed, but in
reality to himself as he would have had himself.
It was that former self as well as his former love
he had hoped to find again when he met Mrs.
Austin.

With her it was different. She had trusted
him and he had failed her; the pain had been
keen, but with a touch of scorn in it. And later,
when the wound was healed and all bitterness
gone, she thought of him, not unkindly, but as
one whose nature was light and fickle. When
she discovered how constantly he had looked back
to that old love which she supposed was utterly
forgotten, her memory awoke like the autumn
blossoming of spring flowers.

On that last day all the interest seemed to be
concentrated on the water expedition, as if it were
indeed a voyage of vast importance. Nobody
thought about the people who meant to call on
old Mrs. Carleton, but one would have said that
Frank and Mrs. Austin were going to discover a
new island at least, and indeed the young fellow

VOL. II. D

had such an impression concerning it as, if it
happens to be verified, we call a presentiment.
Mr. South and Tiny came down to the river to see
them off, but, owing to some little delay in Frank's
arrangements, they were obliged to go back, lest
they should keep Mrs. Leicester waiting, and leave
Mrs. Austin where she stood, a slim dark figure at
the water's edge. The dull gray surface, with its
floating leaves and its grasses drawn by the silent
current, was shaded by great groups of trees,
whose dusky greenness was lighted here and thereby
gleams of autumn yellow. Mrs. Austin did
not move, no breath of wind stirred the dark
masses of foliage overhead ; it was like a picture
with something of melancholy stateliness about it.
When Frank was ready the solitary figure disappeared
from the bank, and they went gliding
from under the shadow of the trees out into the
wide, sunless fields.

Honestly, it was not a very beautiful scene.
To Frank, who had known it all his life, the question
of its beauty or ugliness did not occur ; it

was simply the river, and as such it had moulded
his conception of all rivers. On its dull waters
such childish dreams as he had known had embarked
and set sail. As a boy he had fished there,
just as four or five urchins were fishing now.
They stared, open-mouthed and silent, at younger.
Leicester and his boat, but took no notice of
the lady who looked with a musing smile at
the little rustic group as she went by. Presently
came a curve in the stream, where a clump of
alders grew, and bushes leaned despondently over
the water which was eating the earth away from
their roots. The more distant prospect showed a
monotonous variety of ploughed land and pasture,
with lines of trees following the hedges, and here
and there a cottage or two and a bit of road. Mrs.
Austin and Frank talked as they went. He told
her how one bitter winter the river was frozen,
and he skated to the farm where they were going
now. He pointed out a lonely house, and spoke
of the people who lived there. He showed her
how far the floods had reached in a wet season,

a muddy expanse in which little files of cropped
willows seemed to wade knee-deep, and the water
washed through the gates of lost meadows. And
he broke off suddenly in the midst of what he was
saying to ask, "Where shall you be this time tomorrow?"


"Half-way to London, I should think," she
answered ; " I don't know how long the journey
takes."

Frank looked at her and was silent. He
wondered whether he should speak as they came
back.

The Greens' house stood by the roadside a little
way from the river. The farm-buildings and
some big stacks had a pleasant prosperous air, but
the house itself was an ugly little plastered box,
with a bit of treeless garden in front, blossoming
with prim sulphur coloured dahlias. Frank did
not seem to have much to say to old Green after
all. The two exchanged a few words and then
came to the little parlour, where ]airs. Austin
sat on a horsehair sofa giving the latest news of

MRS. AUSTIN 37

Mrs. Leicester and Miss Vivian to the farmer's
wife. Frank was on very pleasant terms with his
tenants, who evidently thought their young landlord
a most important personage. Other people
were "high," but vaguely "high," and a duke
would not have impressed Mrs. Green as much as
Mr. Leicester from the Manor House. The Prince of
Wales, perhaps, as a young man residing in palaces,
and holding a well-defined position as the Queen's
son, might have eclipsed Frank, but it would have
taken a prince to do it. Mrs. Austin perceived,
with a slight smile, how unimportant she was
compared with her companion, but she was not ina
mood to be amused by that or anything else
that afternoon. She was glad to leave the house,
to escape from hospitable offers of cake and homemade
wine, and to find herself once more upon the
road. Even then, however, the old farmer insisted
that Frank should look at a shed which was not
satisfactory, and she had to wait while the matter
was discussed.

There was a little pond with neat white railings

just opposite the house, and she strolled across
and stood by it with a mysterious sense of loneliness
and desolation upon her. Still as the afternoon
was, she fancied that there was a mournful little
rustling in the boughs of a stunted oak which grew
a few yards away. The little pool mirrored a
vacant gray sky. It was absurd, and yet she felt
as if she would have given anything to see Gilbert
South coming towards her, instead of which it was
Frank, who tore himself away from the farmer
and darted across the road.

"I've kept you waiting," he said; "I'm so
sorry ! Oh, and you are tired, aren't you ?"

A little," she allowed. " Nothing to matter."

"It's too bad of me! What can I do?" he
exclaimed with anxious solicitude. " Come in
again and let Mrs. Green make you some tea."

Oh no, no," she said. " I would rather go
back."

Frank was in despair. He reproached himself.
"What a brute I am!"

Mrs. Austin fairly laughed at the intensity of

his remorse. " What would you do if I were very
tired?" she said.

He hardly dared to speak to her as they went
back, and perhaps it was owing to that enforced
silence that later he recalled with especial vividness
the plash of his oars on their quietly winding
way, the little ripples dying among the dry
autumnal reeds on either bank, and the light from
the west, where a pale sun struggled feebly
through the clouds, falling coldly on the beautiful
face before him. For Mrs. Austin, meanwhile, a
soft current of thought flowed with the river,
setting ever more strongly towards a final resolution.
If it rested with her to make Gilbert South
happy, why should she not do it ? He was not
what she had once imagined him, yet he was truer
and better than she had believed him during the
years they had been parted. There was no man
living whose thoughts and memories, nay, whose
little tricks of speech and gesture, were bound up
with her past life as Gilbert's were; and the
recollection of his troubled face haunted her like

a reproach. "Why not?" she said to herself over
and over again, to the measured sound of Frank's
oars. " Why not ?  why not ?  if it would make
him happy."

I don't know why it is," she said to young
Leicester when they had landed, and were walking
slowly up to the house, " but I have had a feeling
all this afternoon as if something were going to
happen."

That's funny," said Frank ; " so have I."

Have you really ? If I had known that I
might have wondered whether you were really
going to drown me. But here we are, safely
landed, in spite of our forebodings."

He surveyed the sullen sky. " Perhaps there's
thunder in the air," he suggested.

Perhaps. That might account for my feeling
tired. I've been a dull companion, I fear."

"Xo," Frank was beginning to say, when he
stopped short. They had just come in sight of
the house, and he stared at a farmer's chaise,
driven by a labouring man, which was going away

from the front door. " That's old Clayton's trap,"
he said ; " what on earth has that come here for ?
And  why, surely that's my mother coming to
meet us  they can't possibly have been there and
got back by this time !"

There has been an accident !" said Mrs.
Austin with sudden certainty. "Go and see
what has happened. Your mother is safe,
but "

Frank ran forward. It was his mother hurrying
down the drive. " What is it ? " he said.

"Oh, Frank!" she cried. "Oh, my dear boy!
Those dreadful horses ! "

What's the matter ? The new horses ?"

"Yes. We went by Upton Lane because I
wanted to inquire about Barker's wife  by the
railway cutting, you know. She likes to see one
if it's only for a minute  at least she did like,
poor thing 1"

Frank stamped impatiently. " Barker's

wife !" he said. "Is anybody hurt? Is anybody
dead?"

"She's dead  she died yesterday  nobody
else."

Oh, go on ! go on ! What happened ?"

Why, I went in just to speak to poor Barker

Barker's final destiny was so nearly settled

that Mrs. Leicester gasped and hurried on  " and
the express rushed by, at least I think it was the
express  they shouldn't make them scream so,
Frank, it isn't whistling, it's a downright scream
and the horses bolted down the lane to the left
and he couldn't hold them "

"The lane to the gravel-pit!" said Frank, in a
horror-struck voice.

Yes ! And Tiny and Mr. South 1 But they
dashed against a bit of wall at the turning, and
were thrown out."

"Are they hurt? Much?"

"No, nobody is hurt, only shaken. But oh,
Frank!"

The horses ?" said Frank, greatly relieved.

"Nothing much. Robinson says it's quite
wonderful. There's no harm done."

"What then?" Frank grasped his mother's
arm. " There's something more. Tiny is hurt 
I know she is. Why don't you say so ?"

No, she isn't ; she isn't indeed, nor Mr. South
either."

"Well?"

"They are not hurt," said Mrs. Leicester
desperately, "but they're engaged to be married !"

She looked as if she expected an explosion,
but none followed. Frank's hand unclosed and
dropped by his side, and he stood for a moment
staring dumbly at her. " Are you sure you didn't
fall out too, and pitch on your head ? " he said at
last.

"No, indeed; I was in the cottage when the
train came. Oh, it's quite true, Frank. You
know I really couldn't help it. Are you angry ?"

"Angry?" he repeated, "why should I be
angry ? Fm dreaming I think. It isn't a joke?"
he said suddenly with a threatening frown.

No ! oh no ! Is it wrong, do you think ?
What could I do ?"

"Tiny and South?" said Frank. "Tiny!
Well  if she likes him ! I don't see why it should
be wrong," he went on, bewildered, yet beginning
to perceive how in some ways it might be marvellously
right. " That's for her own people to decide.
If they haven't any objection  but Tiny and
South !"

You are not angry then ? You don't mind ? "

No, why should I ? If Tiny is happy it's all
right. But I don't seem able to believe it yet."

"Well, here is Mr. South," said Mrs. Leicester
more cheerfully. " Perhaps you'll believe him."

Frank looked up and saw South coming across
the grass. He was pale, but there was a peculiar
brightness about his face. His eyes were shining,
he smiled a little defiantly. Surprise is not the
easiest thing in the world to encounter, especially
if one is a little surprised at oneself. Gilbert had
only just found himself out. Before Frank could
take a step to meet him, Mrs. Austin, who had
come up during the explanation, went forward
swiftly and held out her hand.

Gilbert, is this true ?" she said. " I may
congratulate you, not only on your fortunate
escape, but on your engagement too ?"

(Mrs. Leicester in the background arched her
eyebrows and looked at Frank. " I had forgotten
her!" she whispered.)

South ceased to smile, but he met her questioning
eyes honestly enough. " Yes," he said slowly,
"it's quite true." He looked at her as if he
would have said more.

Then I wish you all happiness  I wish it
with all my heart," she replied. There was no
tremor in her soft clear voice. " I think our old
friendship gives me the right to be one of the first
to congratulate you."

Thank you," Gilbert replied confusedly. He
still held her hand, and looked anxiously at her
as if he feared some hidden meaning in her words.
'mildred!" he said, and there was a world of

pleading in his tone. " Tell me " he stopped

short. What was he going to say ?

Believe me," she said, and he felt her fingers

tighten on his in a kindly clasp as she spoke, " I
have always wished your happiness  always.
And I am glad to think that you have found it."
And with that she nodded a smiling little farewell
and walked towards the house.

Gilbert gazed after her with a throb of regretful
pain. He had known that it was impossible
to go back to the old days, Mildred had taught
him that. And yet as he looked over his shoulder
at her retreating figure, he had a strange fancy
that it was the very past itself, the past which he
had so long worshipped and from which he had
so suddenly awakened, which was at that moment
leaving him for ever, a stately shape passing
silently away and never looking back. He would
not have recalled her, since he could not recall the
Mildred who believed in him and looked at him
with happy hope in her eyes. It was Tiny who
believed in him now. Mildred had no need of
him. Tiny had called to him, " Gilbert'' in their
peril that afternoon, and his heart had answered
the innocently appealing cry, the name by which

she had never called him, uttered as her one word
then. Tiny had no need to grudge his old love
that one backward glance. It was all over in a
moment, and Gilbert drew a long breath, and
went forward to receive Frank's congratulations.

They were rather briefly and bluntly given.
Frank was eager to be gone ; the picture which
for Gilbert personified a softly sentimental regret
was for him a vision of hope which beckoned him
to follow. He uttered such good wishes as came
readily to his lips, and were suitable to anybody
who was going to be married. He realised the
accident by the gravel-pit more clearly than the
engagement, but he was too impatient and preoccupied
to talk much even about that. " It's a
mercy you weren't killed !" he said shortly.

Well, I suppose it was a narrow escape," Gilbert
answered with a smile.

*'A narrow escape  yes, I should think so. It
couldn't very well have been much narrower, as
far as I can see. However, a miss is as good asa
mile, I suppose."

So they say," Gilbert replied ; " but, for my
own part, I should prefer the mile next time.
And so would your cousin, I fancy."

All, Tiny knew what you were coming to !
It's no wonder if she was scared, poor child !" said
Frank. "There isn't a nastier place about here.
By the way, I haven't seen Tiny yet." And he
brushed past Gilbert and departed, as if to congratulate
Tiny were the one object of life.

He went by the stable-yard, where he speedily
ascertained that the amount of damage done was
so absurdly small that there was nothing serious
about the whole business, except what might
have been. He cut Robinson's explanations short,
and hurried to the house, where, as luck would
have it, he met Tiny in the hall. She looked a
little like Gilbert South, pale with agitation, and
yet radiant. Her great brovn eyes were shining,
and her lips quivered with excitement which
might end either in sobs or smiles. "Oh, Frank,"
she exclaimed ; and she too looked up anxiously
to see how the young master received the news.

"Well," said he, taking her hands in his;
"this is a pretty afternoon's work! What will
your people at home say, do yon suppose ? "

Oh, my people at home ! They'll say what I
say," Tiny answered, with a tremulous laugh. " I
shall make them."

"And what do you say ?"

Oh, Frank ! isn't it strange ? I'm so glad, but
I want you to say you are glad too. Frank, you
do like him now, don't you ? You are not vexed ?"

No, I'm not vexed if you are happy. Oh, I
like him well enough. But I think you ought to
have had somebody younger," he said doubtfully.

Oh no, Frank," Tiny replied, with great
decision. "It doesn't matter the least bit when
it's the man. If it were the woman, now, it
would matter ; but not when it's the man."

Well, you know best." And Frank released
one of his hands. " I'm sure I wish you all happiness.
It comes rather suddenly," he said, with a
laugh.

So it did to me," Tiny replied ; " and I'm not

VOL. II. E

IV

sure he would have told everybody directly, but
we were in the Barkers' garden ; we couldn't go
in because poor Mrs. Barker is dead, you know?
and we were waiting till they got something to
bring us home "

"Oh, that's where it was settled?"

Yes," Tiny answered, with a conscious little
laugh. " Xo ; I think it was settled as we
tumbled out, but that was where he said it properly.
And your mother came round the corner
upon us "

I see," said Frank.

"They do grow such a lot of southernwood
there," Tiny went on, as the colour rushed to her
cheeks. " He leant against the palings, and there
was a great bush of it. He smelt like a Sunday-school
nosegay as we were coming back ; but he
says he shall always like it now."

The sight of Tiny, alive, laughing, and talking
nonsense with quivering lips, suddenly brought the
thought of her peril vividly before Frank. " Oh,
Tiny !" he said, "you might have been killed !"

Don't," she said ; " I saw it all  the gravel-pit,
you know, just as we went down into it one
day ; do you remember ? Ever so long ago, almost
the first time I stayed here. I saw it all, as if
there were a terrible light in it, and I said to myself,
'I shall die there!' And then I called to
Gilbert, and I remember his face for one moment,
and we got to the turning, and before we could
jump out it was all over; and there we were,
picking ourselves up, and none the worse !"

"Thank God!" said Frank.

Only so dusty ; and somehow I felt very small
when I found it had all ended in nothing at all."

Frank laughed. "Never mind; it was better
than being a smashed heroine."

"And it has ended in something, only a
different sort of thing, hasn't it ? " said Tiny.
"Where is everybody, Frank? In the drawing-room
?"

Everybody ? No ; I left him with my mother
on the lawn."

Tiny made a face at him. " Oh, by the way, I

\i''''\n Of Vl!''

IV

know Mrs. Austin isn't there. I met her a minute
ago on the stairs, and she kissed me and congratulated
me. I say, who told her?"

She heard my mother telling me, I believe."

Oh, I wondered if Gilbert had. Do you
suppose she minds much ? "

I don't believe she minds at all," said Frank.
'' Why should she ? She told him she was very
glad."

I believe she does mind, though," Tiny nodded.
She was very fond of talking about old times."

"Rubbish !" Frank exclaimed ; "you're as bad
as my mother ! " and he walked off, leaving Tiny
happily convinced that it was impossible Mrs.
Austin should not envy her the possession of
Gilbert's love.

Now or never !" he said to himself as he went
slowly up the stairs. His life hung in the balance,
his heart was beating fast, and every throb brought
him nearer the decisive moment. He turned into
a little room where Mrs. Leicester and Tiny sometimes
sat. He would lie in wait for Mrs. Austin

there, she must pass the door as she went
down.

Frank leant against the window, looking at the
dim undulations of the landscape, and vaguely
recognising familiar points. It was strange to
stand in that little room which he had known all
his life  he could remember learning his lessons
there at his mother's knee  waiting for his fate to
come to him. At any moment it might come,
with a quiet step, and the soft sweeping of her
dress in the passage. Before a dozen more of
those strong heart-throbs were over her eyes
might be meeting his. She would look him in the
face he knew, but what would she say. to him ?
Frank had never thought less of himself than he
did at that moment, and yet beneath all his anxiety
he had an unreasoning faith in his good luck.
Fortune had always been kind to him ; people had
always done what he wanted them to do. Yes,
but Mrs. Austin was different. He dared not hope,
and yet the mere thought that success was possible
flushed him like a draught of wine. Then she

would not be Mrs. Austin but  Mildred ; he would
not have to count days and nights as steps towards
parting, they would all be his, other people would
come and go, but she would stay. When she said
horae " she would mean Culverdale. On that last
thought he dwelt with exquisite delight, as if he
could hear her uttering the word. It was the
wildest dream, yet in a few minutes that dream
might be his actual life ; that was the wonder of
it. And was not fortune smiling on him already ?
He had been afraid of Gilbert South, he had had
misgivings about Tiny's troubled eyes, and now
just at the right moment all his doubts and fears
had vanished away, he was free to go to his love,
and she was free to come to him. There could
be no shadow of reproach or regret between
them.

He heard her footfall in the passage, he called
Mrs. Austin ! " it paused, and she appeared on
the threshold of the open door. He had been
expecting her and watching for her, and yet when
she came in answer to his call he felt as if he

were taken by surprise and had not a word to say.
She stood in the doorway waiting for him to speak,
and on her delicate lips was that faint half-smile
which seemed to Frank to be the sum of all the
poetry in the world. '' What is it ? " she said.
Did you want me ? "

"Don't go down for a few minutes," he
entreated. " I have something to say to you."

She looked unsuspectingly at him. " Some
other time," she said ; " I really must go to your
mother."

My mother ? Oh, she will wait a few minutes
for me ! " And, before she could speak another
word, Frank, with eager eyes and stammering
speech, was telling the story of his love. Even ashe
looked at her pale, startled face, before she had
opened her lips to answer him, he knew that he
had failed. And yet failure, now that it had
actually come, seemed so incredible that Frank
tried to avert it by repeating what he had already
said, as if every second which elapsed before she
spoke was something gained. But all at once he

stopped short, with a sense of the utter uselessness
of any words.

Oh, I am sorry ! " said Mrs. Austin, meeting
his eyes with a simple, tender sorrow in hers.
She might have looked something the same if she
had inadvertently hurt some dumb creature in the
Culverdale woods.

'don't!" said Frank.

I never dreamed of this  never ! I'm more
sorry than words can say if anything I have said
or done "

No ! " Frank exclaimed. " You have done
nothing wrong. If I'm a fool I don't know that
it's my fault, but I'm sure it isn't yours ! "

She could not help smiling, so gentle a smile
that it could not wound him. "You must not
think of this," she said. " It can't be. For one
thing, you must remember that you are a young
man and I am an old woman. You will choose
better one of these days  you have your life before
you." She added after a moment, " Mine is behind
me, at least the best of it."

"Don't talk like that!" said Frank. "What
do a few years matter one way or the other ? I
would be older if I could, of course." (He could
wish to be changed, but he could desire no change
in her.) " But I shall grow older," he said, trying
to laugh.

She shook her head. " And so shall I ! "

If that is all," he exclaimed hotly, " it would
be cruel "

"But it isn't all. Believe me, Mr. Leicester,
what you ask is impossible."

I know I'm not good enough, but isn't there
anything I could do ? If I tried to get into
Parliament  should you like me to do that?"
said Frank desperately. His hurried thought
sought any possible advancement that might make
him more worthy in her eyes. " I'm not clever,
of course, but surely a man must be good for
something if he tries with all his heart. Tel me
what you would like me to do, and I'll doit!"


He stood opposite her : his face was pale and

keen with excitement : he looked so roused, so
manly, so earnest, that for one moment the thought
crossed Mrs. Austin's mind that if fate had but
sent Frank instead of Gilbert into that earlier life
of which she had spoken, he might have become
such a hero as she had dreamed. But it was only
a passing thought. Something told her that
Frank, as he spoke, touched the highest point of
which he was capable. It might be that he too
felt that at that moment the flood of passion and
resolution reached its limit, but he believed that
the wave, if not repulsed, would have force enough
to carry him onward through the lower waters of
his later life.

"I think you are good for a great deal," she
said, "but that isn't the question. You must
believe me when I tell you that I am very
sorry, but what you ask me can't be."

You are quite sure ? There is no chance forme?"


She paused for a moment, looking at him.
Then, as if it pained her to speak that last word,

she answered with a little negative movement of
her head.

The eager expression died out of his eyes and
his face relaxed. " Very well," he said. " Then I
suppose there's nothing to do but to say good-bye."
He seemed to be making an effort to master himself,
and Mrs. Austin looked aside at the window
and waited till he should speak again.

"See here," he said, after a brief silence, "I
shall tell my mother I have to go up to town on
business this evening, but that I'm coming down
tomorrow morning. I shall get away so without
any fuss, and tomorrow I shall telegraph that I'm
detained, and I shan't come back for a day or two."

Yes, I understand," she answered. " This is
good-bye. And when we meet again, I hope "

Frank had taken up a pencil which happened
to be lying on the table, dropped it, and stooped
to find it on the floor. He rose with a slight
flush on his cheek. " People don't always meet,"
he said. "Sometimes it's years first. Perhaps
we never shall meet again."

"Perhaps not. That is possible of course."
Mrs. Austin was a little puzzled by his manner.

The colour deepened on his face. " Well," he
said, " why should we ? If it must be all over,
let it be all over!" He looked at her, crimsoning
with the consciousness that he was saying something
altogether unlike his ordinary everyday talk.
I would rather we didn't meet. I would rather
say good-bye now. You understand, don't you ?
Eemember me a little as I am to-day."

I shall always remember you," she answered.

And let me remember you as you are. If we
chance to meet, why we must. But why should
we ? We never met till now. If it depends on
me, I think we never will meet again."

Mrs. Austin looked at him with an expression
which was at once startled and thoughtful, and a
faint tinge of rose on her pale face made answer
to Frank's blush. The entreaty, " Let me remember
you as you are," touched her strangely. She
knew that she was beautiful, but she knew also
that her beauty was on the wane, and there was

a melancholy pleasure in the thought that, though
for the world she might grow old, for this one
man she should always remain such as she was at
that moment of farewell. She could not marry
him, she did not love him, but womanlike she did
desire to be always young for her young lover.
She desired it too for her own sake. Otherwise
it seemed to her that the mere lapse of a few
years might turn Frank's passionate devotion and
her answering pity into a ridiculous joke. If she
were a faded elderly woman and he a heavy respectable
squire, would it be possible to remember
without laughter that they had ever felt and
spoken as they were feeling and speaking then ?
Why should not Frank have his way, foolish and
boyish though it might be ?

Let it be so, then," she said. " If you like it
best, we will say ' Good-bye ' here and now." She
looked at him very sadly. " I wish I had never
come here."

"No, no!" cried Frank, with sudden passion,
almost as if he thought that her wish could really

take her sweet unapproachable presence out of
his memory. " No ; I can part with you  I must
part with you  but I couldn't part with the time
I have had."

I feel as if I had done nothing but harm, and
yet I can't help it," she went on, half to herder.

How have you done any harm ? " Frank
demanded. " Because I love you, and you won't
have me ? Do you think "  this with an uncertain
laugh  " that I shall take to drinking, perhaps
 go to the dogs ? After loving you ?"

No, I don't think that ; but I'm sorry you
should have wasted your love on me."

"It isn't wasted," said Frank, after a pause,
gazing intently at the floor. "Look here, Mrs.
Austin, I shall never, as long as I live, love any
woman as I love you now. It can't be. One
must have one best love of all in one's life, and
I've given mine to you. But it isn't wasted for
all that. If ever I marry, and you hear of it,
you'll know that my love was better worth having
than it could have been if I had never seen you.

That isn't being wasted, is it ? And you have
done good instead of harm  no harm at all."

He looked up quickly, and saw that her eyes
were full of tears. " I think she will be a happy
woman who loves you and whom you love," she
said, half turning from him. " And now, goodbye."


Stay one moment more," he entreated. " Let
me have one last look. Eemember, I'm never
going to see you again ; I want to recollect you as
you are now."

She paused with perfect simplicity, and faced
him where he stood. He looked at her, turned
his eyes away for a moment, and then looked
back.

It's no good," he said. " When I look away
1 see you as I saw you that first night, when they
were playing, and you walked past me and were
not thinking of me. I can see you so any moment
I like. Or in the boat this afternoon  you were
not thinking of me then either. Perhaps afterwards
this will come back to me too," said Frank,

still gazing at her as if he would learn her face
with its far-off compassion by heart. "Well,
good-bye," he ended, with something of rough
abruptness in his tone. But even as he said it,
in the bitter wrench of parting, the sound of his
own voice jarred upon him with a sense of unfitness.
" Good-bye," he repeated, with the gentleness
he had learnt from her.

"Good-bye," said Mrs. Austin, and held out
her hand, white and with a ring sparkling in the
evening light.

He clasped it with the tender reverence which
that last touch demanded. " I should like you to
say ' Good-bye, Frank,' just for once, if you would,"
he entreated.

With a faint smile of assent she said it very
sweetly, drew her hand out of his, and went
away.

Frank stood where she had left him, at first
with feelings too exalted to be conscious of anything
but her beautiful sorrowful face, and the
sudden blank of her departure. But as his excitement

subsided, the gray light, which always finds
its way from the outer world into a passionate
sorrow, crept into his heart. There is nothing so
dreary as the realisation of loss under its commonplace
aspect, no longer as a blow, but as a lasting
absence of beauty and joy in dull days to come,
the foreshadowing of life's inevitable routine at
the moment when it is unendurable even to remember
that the days of the week will follow
each other in their accustomed order. Frank
hated Culverdale as he stood gazing out of the
window. There were streaks of yellow and sullen
red in the cloudy west, and it seemed to him that
never since the world began had there been so
ugly and cheerless a sunset. The wind was getting
up, and there was something inexpressibly mournful
in the shivering of the trees ; and yet he
stood there, looking and listening till the slow
striking of a distant clock startled him from his
reverie, and reminded him that he had no time to
lose.

As he went down he paused for a moment on

VOL. II. F

the stairs to make sure of his calmness, and, looking
into the shadowy hall below, he saw the door
of the drawing-room open, and Tiny come out.
When she passed, a slim dusky figure, before a
gray window, Frank could not have put the
thought into words ; but it was his turn to feel,
as Gilbert South had felt, as if he saw his old life
passing away with bowed head and lingering steps.
Tiny !" he called, and came flying down the stairs
in his impetuous fashion.

Yes," she said, and stopped short. She could
hardly see his face in the twilight.

"Tiny," said Frank breathlessly, "I'm going
away  I've had a letter. It's only till tomorrow
it's nothing. But I don't think I congratulated
you properly just now "

Oh yes, Frank, you did," said Tiny, who felt
that he must have congratulated her properly,
since he had thought enough about it to accuse
himself like this.

Iso, I didn't, not as I meant to. I hope you'll
be very happy, very happy, always."

Oh yes' said Tiny promptly, as if her uninterrupted
bliss were the simplest matter of
course.

"Look here," Frank continued, "this is a
sort of good-bye, because it won't be the same
thing now. You'll have South to think
of "

Oh, Frank, but I'm not going to forget
you !"

Xo, no," said Frank ; " we've been something
like brother and sister, haven't we ? " He held
her hand tightly in his, and looked at her through
the dusk. " I don't think I ever kissed you. Tiny,
even when you were little ; and after all we are
cousins, you know." She put up her face and
kissed him silently. The remembrance of all their
pleasant days at Culverdale was about them as
their lips met  it was like a shadowy little world
of meadow and copse and cornfield, garden and
river, bounded by the far horizon of childhood.
Both were conscious of that dim background
though Tiny's consciousness was only a half-sweet.

half-sad regret in the midst of new-found joy. As
for Frank, he felt that if South didn't make Tiny
very happy  always  he should like to horsewhip
him. And he would do it too ! For Tiny
must and should be happy, though he couldn't
be.

And I had a letter from Tiny this morning,"
she said. "The child seems quite absurdly happy."

It's a good thing for you that she is happy,"
said Frank. "You are responsible for that
marriage, you know."

How can you say so ? I'm sure I had
nothing to do with it. I never dreamt of such a
thing!"

Frank shook his head. " Oh, you're a terrible
matchmaker; there's no escaping you. If you
miss one you make another. Where is Tiny
now?"

"Some. Would you like to see the letter?"

He took the flimsy sheets, and deciphered
Tiny's dashing raptures rather laboriously. It
was the same Tiny; yet not quite the same.
There were pretty little airs of authority, and
turns of expression which showed that Tiny, who
had never been very important before, felt herself
something of a queen in her new life. There was
wonder at novel sights and experiences  he
seemed to see her wide brown eyes as he read 
and a profound belief in her husband's perfection.
Frank folded the letter and gave it back. He

perceived that there was no need for him to start
off to Some with a horsewhip to secure Tiny's
happiness. It was taken out of his hands altogether.


Having told her news, Mrs. Leicester began to
make inquiries. Had Frank seen anything of the
Stauntonss as he came through town ?

He had called there, and afterwards had been
asked to dine.

Well, then, what is this about Mrs. Austin ?
I had a note from Mrs. Staunton a day or two
ago, and she said she thought I should soon hear
some news about her that would surprise me.
What does she mean ?"

Frank looked vaguely in the direction of the
piano. " It means that other people can try their
hands at matchmaking as well as you."

Oh ! is she going to be married ? I thought
perhaps it was a sisterhood or something of that
sort. Is she really going to be married?"

Can't say. People don't always succeed with
their matches, you know. But there's a man

who admires her very iimch, it seems, and Mrs.
Staunton is always trying to bring them together.
It's a nice little amusement for her, I suppose;
she doesn't seem to have much else to do, except
drink afternoon tea."

'did you see Mrs. Austin?"

No," said Frank, still staring into space ; " she
was out of town."

And who is this man ? What is his name ? "

She was informed that his name was Rowland.

"But who is he? Tell me something about
him."

Oh ! I don't know. He's a middle-aged man
Fred Staunton pointed him out to me  getting
a little gray."

But you must know more about him than
that. What does he do?"

Breaks stones, I believe," Frank replied.

Mrs. Leicester looked so utterly astounded and
aghast that he began to laugh. " Oh, don't be
frightened!" he said. "It's all right. It all
depends on what you do it with. He breaks 'em

with a little hammer, and that's very respectable."


Oh, you mean that he's something  what do
you call it?  something geological?" she exclaimed,
and was much relieved.

That's about it," said Frank. He threw his
shoulders back and stretched his long arms.
Upon my word I think I'd sooner do an honest
day's work on the roads than go knocking off
little chips of stone and writing papers about 'em.
But I suppose he likes it."

'dear me!" Mrs. Leicester mused. "I
should really think it would be a very nice thing
for Mildred."

"I should leave her to decide that if I were

you."

It must be very lonely for her as she is. I
wonder when the wedding wil be. Last time
we gave her a pair of pink and gold candlesticks
"

"Did you?" said Frank. 'then don't do it
airain."

Why, no, of course not. Well, I inst think
about it."

If I were you, I'd wait till I knew there was
something to think about," said Frank drily, and
there was a silence, broken after a time by Mrs.
Leicester. "I've got an idea!" she announced.

Frank looked round rather impatiently, expecting
to hear of a wedding present. "I've been
thinking," said his mother, "wouldn't you like
me to ask her to come down again before her
marriage ? You would  wouldn't you ? "

He started. "1" he said.

"jSTo really?"

No," he repeated. " Why should she come ?
It was all very well for once, when you were
matchmaking, but I don't want to see Mrs. Austin
again."

"Eeally?" said Mrs. Leicester. "Well, you
surprise me  there's no making you out, Frank.
I knew you didn't like her at first, but at the end
of the time I thought you were just a little taken
with her "

Frank's answer was an impatient movement of
his shoulders,

Oh, I was wrong, I suppose," Mrs. Leicester
continued cheerfully, "but it was so. First I
thought you didn't like her, and then I didn't
know, and then I thought you did."

Well, you were right once," said Frank.

"Yes ; but it was very funny  I really thought
you did. I don't mean anything serious, of course,
but I thought, now, that if she had been a little

younger Or that you would take a fancy

one of these days to somebody younger, but that
style, you know."

Did you ? " he answered, with a laugh. " Then
you were wrong  quite wrong. I shall marry
some time or other, but my wife won't be the
least bit like Mrs. Austin."

Well, then, my dear boy, I'm sure it was very
nice of you to be so attentive just because she was
your mother's old friend. I hadn't the least idea
you disliked her as much as all that."

Disliked her  rubbish !" said Frank. "You're

always going from one extreme to the other." He
turned round and stood with his hands in his
pockets, and his head bent, staring so absently at
the fire that his mother said smilingly 

A penny for your thoughts ! Come, they
must be worth hearing ! "

Oh, I don't know," he began, rather sulkily ;
but all at once he laughed and looked up. " Here,
hand over that penny," he said ; " I was wondering
how long it took to get over the measles."

Mrs. Leicester was much amused at the absurd
idea, and gave him very precise information as
to the time which had elapsed in his own case
before his recovery was quite complete. "But
I don't know that it is the same with everybody,"
she said.

No, I daresay not," he replied a little vaguely.
"But I suppose a fellow always does get over
them some time or other, doesn't he ?"

There is a house in Lesborougli High Street, a
sketchy lath-and-plaster tenement, which looks
squeezed and uncomfortable between its more
substantial neighbours, like a bashful acquaintance
entangled in the rapturous greetings of two
old friends. It belongs to the Misses Fletcher,
who consider it a very desirable residence. They
ought to know it thoroughly, from the stuffy
parlour to the cheerless attics, for they have spent
all their lives in it, and they are no longer young.
But to outsiders it has a starved and dreary look ;
affording matter for curious speculation in the
likeness between the tall colourless building and

its owners. It hardly seems a fitting stage for any
drama. It is too undignified for tragedy, too unlovely
for brighter scenes. Yet within the last
thirty years it has held, perhaps, more than an
average share of doubt and despair, of hopes,
dreams, and surprises, not much better understood
by the Misses Fletcher than by the unconscious
walls.

One January afternoon, seven and twenty
years ago, the little parlour had two occupants.
Near the fireside sat a woman, who, reckoning by
years, should have been young, but who was
faded, hopeless, and worn out. Her hands lay
idly in her lap, and her eyes watched the slow
dropping of cinders on the hearth, or wandered
over the coloured vases and the elaborate arrangements
of shells which stood on the chimney-piece.
Once they lingered on an oil-painting of Mr.
Fletcher, Selina and Caroline's father, which hung
on the opposite wall, and, for that moment, something
of expression awoke within them. The
picture was too big for the room, and the worthy

ironmonger, for such lie had been during his lifetime,
seemed to prop the low ceiling with his
head, while he leaned forward as if to look into
his daughter-in-law's face. She stared defiantly
at his regular features, florid complexion, and
bland eternal smile, traced a likeness in brow and
eyes to his son, her husband, and her lip curled.
But her very hatred looked like querulous distaste.


Two years earlier she had run away from her
home with Henry Fletcher. She was an empty-headed
girl whose life had been made dreary by
poverty and family pride. The Vaughanss had
great relations but the smallest of incomes, and
Fanny's life was as rigidly ruled as if she were a
princess, and as narrow as if she were a nun. She
fancied herself in love with young Fletcher, and
she escaped from the tyranny of her mother and
brother to marry him. She had a vague idea that
her handsome Henry was in trade, but she thought
of something lucrative and general, of commerce
and merchant princes. She made so little attempt

VOL. XL G

to hide her disgust when she saw the Flamborough
shop, that there were bitter words between bridegroom
and bride within a week of their marriage.
And she had not been a month in her new home
before she learned that the death of her cousin
had made her brother a wealthy man, and that,
had she waited but those few weeks longer, her
brightest hopes might have been realised. She
bemoaned her impatient folly with lamentations
as foolish, which goaded her husband to outbursts
of fury.

It is needless to say that Fletcher never became
a merchant prince. He was extravagant; he
neglected his business, his foreman cheated him,
he took to billiards at the Red Lion, and went
headlong to bankruptcy. His wife sat at home,
crushed and listless, rousing herself only from
time to time to write letters to her brother Ernest.
She tried to make them eloquent and pathetic.
She felt that she failed, and said so with heavily-dropping
tears, which were in truth her nearest
approach to eloquence. But it made no difference.

The tear-blistered pleadings were returned unopened.
The crash had come, and while Henry
Fletcher went to London to seek employment, his
sisters took in Fanny and her year-old boy.
They did all they could to embitter this kindness
by their spiteful and miserly ways, and Fanny,
drooping by their fireside, irritated them by dull
indifference. She took no heed, though Selina
and Caroline were busy about the house, that
January afternoon. Once only she leaned forward
a little and listened, with a frown of vexation.
There was a faint sound like a far-off cry.

'Isn't your baby  it's a child in the street,"
said a rough boyish voice. And a repetition of
the sound proved the speaker to be right.

He was a lad of sixteen, who was at work with
books and papers near the window. Mr. Fletcher
had been twice married, and Theophilus was his
son by his second wife. He was a clumsy, broad-shouldered,
silent youth, who pored with lowering
brows over his arithmetic, and when he half-blundered,
half-swaggered into the room, seemed

to take an unaccountably large share of it. Thorpe,
as they called him, was always in the way.
Thorpe's elbows filled the table, and there was no
moving a step without falling over his legs. But
he seldom took any notice. When he did talk it
was in a loud voice, and he liked to impress upon
his hearers how much he despised gentlefolks,
what rubbish Greek and Latin were, and what a
good commercial education the boys got at Ms
school. He would have his mother's portion,
about eleven hundred pounds ; and, standing on
the rug with his legs well apart and his hands
thrust into his pockets, this big independent orphan
would sometimes discourse of the fortune he intended
to make. But as a rule he did his work,
and kept his day-dreams to himself.

It had not seemed probable that there would
be much sympathy between Thorpe and his sister-in-law.
But it soon became evident that in his
rough fashion he took a queer pitiful interest in
her, though she hardly appeared to heed it. She
made no answer when he spoke that afternoon,

but threw herself back in her chair, while he
resumed his work. Presently, however, she took a
paper from her pocket, read it through, and
turning a little as she sat, looked intently at the
lad's bent head. He raised it and their eyes met.
She rose, and moving with something of a pliant
grace, she crossed the room to where he sat.
Are you not going away tomorrow morning ? "
she said.

He nodded.

She laid the paper down. "Will you copy
this for me ? My brother is angry with me, and
when he sees my writing he won't open the letter.
But if you copy it he will begin it at any rate.
And then perhaps he will go on. And if he does
go on, I think  I hope "

Thorpe frowned, and pushed out a scornful
lower lip ; but he took a sheet of blue paper, and
with muttering of " What bosh ! " and " Pack of
rubbish ! " he copied the entreaties for a reconciliation
in a fine commercial hand. She wrote a
trembling " Fanny " at the end, folded the letter

as if her very soil were between the pages, and
slipped it into the lad's pocket with a beseeching-smile.
" Keep it till tomorrow," she said ; " he'll
not know the postmark then."

"All right. I'll post it."

"Don't forget it," she persisted, standing over
him while he twirled his pen in his big solid
fingers. She had one hand on his shoulder, and
the other lingered where she had put her treasure.
It's my last hope you have there by your
heart, Thorpe. Don't forget it."

/ won't forget it," he growled, shrugging up
his shoulder under her fingers. " Can't you trust
me?"

"Yes," she whispered, and stooping with sad
humility, the poor lady kissed his cheek. The
blood rushed to his forehead, but he put up his
hand and rubbed the place her lips had touched.

I say," he remonstrated, " I msh you'd leave
me alone. You make a fellow feel such a fool,
you know." And he blundered out of the room.

When he came again to Lesborough, Fanny's

hopes and fears were over. The big blue sheet of
paper had come back sealed with Ernest Vaughan's
signet-ring, and from that time she sank rapidly,
and seemed to have no desire to live. She took
no heed of her boy, and when her husband wished
for some kind of deathbed reconciliation, she turned
her face to the wall in petulant weariness, and
refused to make the slightest sign. Her brief life
was soon over, and her gravestone described her
as Henry Fletcher's beloved wife.

He did not long survive her. He lost his
situation, resolved to emigrate, and was drowned
on his voyage to Australia.

Selina and Caroline were left with the unwelcome
burden of their brother's child. Theophilus,
making his way in the world, ceased to come to
Lesborough. Time slipped away, and little Ernest
grew from baby to boy, from boy to youth, from
youth to man, till he was within three or four
months of his twenty-first birthday  a tall young
fellow, with beautiful eyes and a querulous mouth.
His life had been pent within that dreary house

and the attenuated strip of ground behind it.
This playground of his was a dull pathway leading
nowhere. Like Ernest himself, it seemed pent
and prisoned to the utmost limit of endurance ;
indeed almost beyond it, for at the end it bulged
out suddenly to the right, as if it had made a
desperate attempt to get away to the green fields.
But it had been thwarted ; cut off by a dusty
lane, shouldered aside by a neighbouring stable,
and the only result of the effort was an excrescence,
holding two stunted lime-trees and some feeble
boughs of lilac. A few wallflowers and Canterbury
bells forced their way through the hardened soil,
and at intervals down the narrow borders were
dotted dreary little bushes, sprinkled every autumn
with minute and melancholy Michaelmas daisies.
This strip of ground was called "the garden," a
comprehensive word, since it could designate Eden
and this.

As a child Ernest had played in the corner
which was safe from prying eyes. As a youth he
haunted it still. He was sullen and shy, but

there was something of grace about the lad,
slender and eager-eyed, who dreamed over books
and papers in his garret, or went with swift strides
along the garden path. Most of all was that grace
about him, when, reaching the lime-trees, he leant
against the wall with folded arms and lifted face.
For then at a window high in a roof across the

lane would be seen ISTo matter, Ernest knew,

and the Misses Fletcher did not, and perhaps there
might be a touch of Eden about the grim little
enclosure after all.

Time had awakened no kindlier feelings in the
sisters' hearts. Miss Fletcher was fifty-eight,
Miss Caroline was fifty-five. Their days were
spent in the practice of small economies, enlivened
by spiteful gossip. Year after year dawned on
them in their unlovely existence, and left them
exactly as it found them, except that they were
the older by its age, leading such a life, so gray,
so cramped, so unutterably mean, that the mere
thought of it would overshadow young hearts with
a horror worse than the horror of the grave.

What had they to do with the dream which made
that garden corner so fair to Ernest's eyes ?

Just at this time he had leisure enough to lean
and look, for his work in life was not yet found.
He had been educated at the Lesborough Grammar
School, and ]mr. Markham, the master  a dreamy
man, clever in a whimsical way, but curiously
unfitted for the post he held  took a fancy to him,
and kept him at a small salary to teach the younger
boys. Ernest had no aptitude for the work, but
he liked to be with Mr. Markham. So he drifted
on till the master's sudden death left him stranded
and helpless. What could he do ? The Misses
Fletcher made inquiries, and offered him a place
in a draper's shop. He said he would starve
sooner. They persisted, partly because they
thought it really suitable, and partly because
they found something spitefully charming in the
idea of Fanny's boy behind a counter, when Fanny
herself had so loathed her husband's shop. Sure
of the triumph  for what could Ernest do but
yield?  they gave him a fortnight to think it

over, and see what he could find for himself; but
the fortnight was slipping away, and he had done
nothing. The thought of enlisting crossed his
mind, but the remembrance of Lizzie Grey held
him back  Lizzie whom he loved ; beautiful
Lizzie who loved him.

Day after day, as she came from teaching the
children of a Lesborough grocer, she opened the
little window, by which a poplar flickered, and
saw her lover's lifted face as he watched for herby
the lac-bush below. Young as they were, it
seemed to them that they had loved for a lifetime,
since neither could say when it began, and neither
had so much as dreamed of any other.

Lizzie was very pretty. She was a tall, sight
girl, with a wide forehead, wavy brown hair, soft
red lips that were ready to smile, and eyes that
were clear and true. It was easy to see that she was
quick and self-reliant ; in fact, Ernest leant on her
rather than she on him. She was gently tolerant
of his wayward melancholy and his jealous follies,
but his day-dreams pained her a little sometimes.

She could help him when he was despondent, but
she felt as if she hardly understood the castles in
the air which he would build on a hopeful day.
Perhaps in her frank humility she thought his
ambition nobler than it was. As for Ernest, he
did not doubt for a moment that her desires were
the same as his own.

It had been easy to deceive Selina and Caroline
in the matter of his love. They would often ask
Lizzie to tea, because she was a capital amateur
dressmaker, and had ingenious ideas which would
make their frayed and faded garments look as
good as new. On these occasions Ernest would
wear a lowering face, for he hated to see his love
stooping over Selina's dingy finery, planning and
turning, with pins in her mouth. But his aunts
misunderstood his ill temper, and chose to imagine
that he despised Lizzie Grey, because her father,
dead some three years earlier, had been only a
superintendent of police. They lectured him on
his sinful pride, and he heard them in sullen
scorn. Consequently they would summon him to

render her small services, to hold a candle, or
bring a footstool, or take her cup. He obeyed in
silence, and while they exchanged triumphant
glances, he rejoiced in the exquisite moments
when his eyes or hands met Lizzie's.

Ernest's final decision was to be made on the
fifth of February. The weather had been very
mild, but it changed on the night of the first, and
a black and bitter frost turned the earth to
adamant beneath a leaden sky. The intolerable
cold drove him from his garret, and he was
miserable for himself and for his one pet. This
pet was an old and hideous sandy cat, toothless,
lame, and a very miracle of leanness, such a cat as
one might see in a nightmare, but hardly anywhere
else. Ernest loved it because one day he
rescued it from some boys, who were stoning the
helpless vindictive beast in a corner. The poor
brute would follow him trustfully, rubbing itself
against him as he walked in the garden. He
never spoke of it, but he pilfered bits of meat for
it; he crept downstairs and stole the milk, preserving

a guilty silence when the milkman's
character was aspersed in consequence. He was
absolutely sick with fear lest Dorcas, the surface
maid, should catch him thieving. But
what could he do ? Even had he had money to
spare he could not have bought meat and milk
for Sandy without exciting suspicion. Already
his aunts wondered why " that horrid cat " was so
often about the place, and Miss Selina or Miss
Caroline, perceiving it, would fly out with " Sh 
you nasty beast  you!" or Dorcas would pursue
it with a shower of small stones, and the hunted
wretch would scramble over the wall, turning at a
safe distance to spit and growl in venomous
impotence like a decrepit fiend. Ernest meanwhile
stood by, fully aware of his favourite's
repulsive appearance, but with disgust swallowed
up in pity for its bleak and starved existence.
Still he was sore, not because Sandy was ugly and
malignant, but because he fancied it was ridiculous
to protect an old cat. " It was his usual luck,"
he grumbled to himself. Had it been a dog there

would have been nothing laughable about it, but
he was ashamed of pussy scuttling over the tiles.
Yet he was very true to Sandy. Spending the
evening with Mr. Markham, in his happier days,
he had more than once refused to stay the night,
only because the weather was wild and cold, and
he could not bear to think of Sandy mewing the
long hours through, and rubbing its lean body
against the window of his empty room.

And what was Sandy doing in this bitter frost ?
Ernest wondered as he sat in the parlour with the
local paper in his hand. He wondered, too, why
his Aunt Selina's thimble and needle clicked at
every stitch she took, while his Aunt Caroline's
didn't. Only Aunt Caroline had a trick of sniffing
at irregular intervals, and Ernest was not quite
certain whether the regular click of thimble and
needle, though it worried him almost to distraction,
was worse than the horrible suspense caused by
the irregularity of Aunt Caroline's sniffing. The
two combined were maddening, Last time he
counted nineteen clicks and then a sniff; this

time lie had got to seven and twenty  ah ! thank
goodness, there it was ! Yet why thank goodness ?
For one, two, three, four, when would the next be ?
He muttered something under his breath, and
felt that a man might do murder for less cause.

"What did you say?" Aunt Caroline inquired.


I didn't speak," said Ernest, staring at a string
of dreary little paragraphs.

Oh 1 I leg your pardon ! Singular that my
ears should have so deceived me." And Aunt
Caroline resumed her stitching with a sniff. The
young man leapt to his feet and crumpled up the
paper. He felt that he could not endure the stuffy
little room, the stale Lesborough news, and Selina
and Caroline, one moment longer, and he hurried
away to face the rough east wind. He battled
against it with angry pleasure till he was tired
out, and the gathering dusk drove him home, to
take up all his burdens again at the first glimpse
of that white house which he hated. But no
sooner had he crossed the threshold than he was

conscious of an unwonted presence within. A
small portmanteau lay at the foot of the stairs,
and an overcoat, which smelt of smoke, was tossed
across a chair. The Misses Fletcher abhorred
smokers. From the parlour came a voice, masculine
in depth and power, and pleasant after the
sisters' shrillness.

Ernest's eyes were bright with a scarcely
acknowledged hope as he pushed the door open
and went in. A big fair man stood on the rug,
his head thrown back with a defiant air. His
hands were thrust into his pockets, perhaps as a
judicious economy of space in the little room.
Selina and Caroline, surely leaner and more
wizened than when Ernest went out that afternoon,
sat squeezed against opposite walls, with their
heads on one side, like mediaeval saints in a stained
window, and gazed admiringly at the stranger.
There was a pause, while young Fletcher stared
at the queer group, till the broad-shouldered
central figure stepped forward. '' So this is the
boy ?" he said, with a glance right and left. And

VOL. II. H

the pair of meagre supporters exclaimed in a
breath, "Your Uncle Theophilus !"

The light died out of Ernest's eyes when he
perceived that the newcomer was not a Vaughan.
He drew himself up to his full height, and bowed
in silence. But Theophilus with a laugh ignored
the stately bow and held out his hand, while his
quick gray-blue eyes scanned the lad's face. " So
you are Ernest ? " he said. " You were baby when
I saw you last  you show one how the time has
slipped away."

"Yes, I'm Ernest," and the young man gave
his hand an impatient little twist. His uncle
dropped it with an amused smile, and turning to
Selina said, " He's Eke poor Harry."

Oh, do you think so ? " she replied with
charming candour. "Why, Henry was so good-looking?"
Thorpe laughed again as he looked at
Ms nephew.

Ernest felt that he hated this man. Yet Theophilus
Fletcher was far from ill-looking. He had
lost the awkwardness of old days, he carried

himself well, and his face, though not distinguished
for refinement, might be called handsome. There
was perhaps something stubborn and heavy about
the lower part of it, but his smile was pleasant,
and frequent too, for his former sullenness had
been not so much ill-temper as an uncouth manner.
Except that Mr. Fletcher was a little inclined to
be stout, and that the strong auburn hair was
slightly wearing off his broad forehead, the change
in him was one of unmixed improvement. Yet
to Ernest a fiend in human shape could hardly
have been so distasteful as this sleek, shrewd, self-satisfied
man. For Theophilus Fletcher had
attained his boyish ideal ; he was eminently
commercial.

The little maidservant who helped Dorcas
came in with a note. Miss Selina read it with
an air of mystery, nodded to Miss Caroline, and
went out. Ernest, going wearily upstairs, met
her, and was informed that Miss Grey was coming
to tea. He stopped short, and his angry scowl
might well confirm her in the idea that he disliked

Lizzie. " Have you any objection, pray ?"
she inquired.

"What does it matter?" he said in a half-choked
voice. He brushed past her, and raced
upstairs, furious at the thought that Lizzie  his
Lizzie  should have been sent for to amuse a
vulgar tradesman. He dashed into his room,
scaring poor Sandy, who had crept in at the window
and was crouching in a corner. His frenzy
was over in a moment, and he caught up his
favourite, fondling it with a patient tenderness.
Lizzie would have liked to see the smile which
lighted his dark face, and glanced, like sunshine
on sullen waters, from his melancholy eyes. He
was unwilling to put Sandy down. And why
should he ? He was not going to take any trouble
to do honour to Theophilus Fletcher. So when
at last he saw fit to go downstairs he had done
little to improve his personal appearance.

Not so the other. Whether on account of the
coming visitor, or merely from his habit of
neglecting no advantage which he might possess,

Mr. Theophilus Fletcher had dressed very carefully
indeed. Ernest, lounging in in his shabby
morning coat, found his uncle looking very new
and resplendent, and occupying his favourite position
on the rug, while Miss Selina, in her Sunday
cap, chattered about Lizzie Grey.

A really charming girl, Theophilus ; so pretty,
and so unaffected  oh, you needn't look at Ernest
Ernest doesn't like her  her father was only a
superintendent of police  very well for lis, but
not nearly grand enough for him, is she, Ernest ?
A duchess might do perhaps  he! he!  but a
superintendent of police's daughter !  oh clear no ! "

"No?" said Thorpe. "What, won't she have
anything to say to you, my boy? When it's a
question of a pretty girl nobody looks so savage
for nothing, let her father be what he may. What
has this pretty Miss Lizzie done to you ?"

Ernest's frown grew darker. " I don't know
what you mean, sir, and I don't know what
my aunt means. I don't find fault with Miss
Grey."

The bell rang, and Selina flew out to welcome
her guest.

"Nonsense, man, I was only in joke," said
Thorpe. " You've lived with these solemn sisters
of mine till you don't know what a joke is  and
till you've taken to nursing their cats, I declare !"

His strong hand was on his nephew's shoulder,
and he turned him round as he spoke. Ernest
looked down and saw poor pussy's sandy hairs
sprinkled thickly on his coat. "You are just the
young man to live with a couple of spinsters,
aren't you?" said Thorpe.

A step was heard in the passage, and for the
first time Ernest voluntarily met his uncle's eyes.

"Don't say anything, sir  they hate the poor
brute. They'd hunt it "

"Then be off and brush your coat," said the
other. " Their eyes mayn't be as sharp as mine 
Caroline ought to wear spectacles, / know  but
never count on a woman's not seeing what she
isn't meant to see  mind that."

Thorpe, left to himself, wondered why his

nephew should dislike Lizzie Grey. " Cooped up
here with Selina and Caroline, he ought to be
ready to like anybody. And what should a pretty
girl come here for unless she likes the boy ? No,
no, either she is fearfully plain, in which case
the women will swear she is charming, as a matter
of course, or  which I strongly suspect  Master
Ernest and Miss Lizzie are a pair of sly young
hypocrites, and have hoodwinked the old ladies.
We'll see."

And he did see how, when the young folks
greeted each other with unmoved faces, their
hands lingered for a moment as if unwilling to
part. " Sly fellow," said Thorpe to himself. " He
doesn't find fault with her  no, I daresay not. I
wouldn't find fault with Miss Lizzie if she held
my hand like that!"

The tea-party was a very cheerful one to all
but Ernest. Even the sisters contributed what
little they could, though it was of a feeble and
acidulated kind, to the merriment. Thorpe tried
to draw his nephew into the conversation, but,

being peevishly repulsed, he turned away with a
smile, and devoted himself to Miss Grey. Ernest
looked on in angry astonishment. If it were
intolerable that Lizzie should be sent for to amuse
a bullying overdressed tradesman, how infinitely
worse to find her unconscious of her degradation !
Poor Lizzie ! She liked Mr. Fletcher, and had
no idea that she ought to feel humiliated. She
glanced at her lover from time to time as he sat
apart, and thought that he looked like a prince in
disguise; but she was forced to own that her
prince was slovenly, out at elbows, moody, and
deficient in princely courtesy. Why did he
repulse his uncle ? Why should not his life be
brightened by the broad glow of Mr. Fletcher's
prosperity? And on Ernest's behalf she paid
her innocent court to Theophilus.

Miss Caroline's spirits rose to such an unusual
height that, when the table was cleared, she proposed
to play cribbage with her brother, as she
used to do with the schoolboy of twenty years
earlier. Thorpe assented, but when the cards

were produced, he could not refrain from a startled
aside  " Same pack, by Jove !"  and for a moment
his brow was drawn down, and his under lip pushed
out as of old. This man had no reverence for
antiquity, and took no interest in the memorials
of bygone centuries. But he was strangely impressed
by the accidental permanence of so
perishable a thing as a pack of cards, and he casta
pitying glance at his sisters. His views of
woman's rights and woman's needs were narrow
enough. A woman should have a husband who
would never loose his temper nor his authority,
and who should provide her with a comfortable
home, plenty to eat and drink, and a sufficiency
of finery. But, as he shuffled the old cards, he
woke to a sudden comprehension of the stagnant
dreariness of his sisters' lives. Twenty years
earlier he had left that house to work his way to
fortune. He had known many changes and many
men. He had thrown himself, rejoicing in his
strength, into the world's swift current, and was
hurrying onward to success. And when he came

back to his old home he found no change there,
except that of inevitable decay, and no idea of
amusement for the man except the pack of cards
with which the boy had played. But Caroline
was waiting for him to begin, and he had no time
for further thought.

Apparently he had not become more skilful
since their former encounters, and he soon leant
back to show his cards to Miss Grey, as she sat
by the fireside. While he dexterously balanced
himself so as to bring his bold face and mirthful
eyes very close to Lizzie, that she might give her
counsel in a whisper, Ernest felt that he would
cheerfully give all that he possessed  not much,
poor fellow!  to see the tilted chair slip, and
tumble the self-possessed gentleman into the
fender among the fire-irons. But it was not
to be. And as Mr. Fletcher made outrageous
blunders if left to himself for a moment, and Miss
Caroline said, in a tone which was meant to be
playful, " I looncUr you don't look after your
pupil better than that, Lizzie, I do indeed," the

girl, after a little while, drew her chair to the
table, laid aside her work, and gave herself up to
the genie. She had enough to do, for Theophilus
cheated unblushingly before his adversary's very
eyes, and looked so coolly at Lizzie herself when
he had rattled off, and was about to score, some
astonishing miscalculation of his hand, that she
could only reply with a glance of incredulous
doubt, and, taking the cards from him, endeavour
to point out his mistakes. But once in the midst
of the demonstration she was suddenly aware of
laughter lurking in his eyes, and, flinging down
the cards she exclaimed, " I won't say another
word  you know it all better than I do, and you
cheat most abominably, Mr. Fletcher." But
Thorpe explained how the truth had just dawned
upon him, and he could not help laughing at his
own stupidity. Lizzie shook her head, but at last
she relented, and looked at the hand which had
just been dealt to him.

Presently Miss Selina hunted a black bottle of
currant wine out of the cupboard, and called for a

corkscrew. Thorpe begged her not to open it on
his account, as brandy and water would do for
him. She however persisted, and hospitably
poured it out. Even then, though he was assured
that, being opened, it might as well be drunk, he
steadily declined it, declaring that when he said a
thing he meant it, and that brandy and water
would be quite good enough for him.

Shall I see you home. Miss Grey ?" he asked,
when Lizzie, having finished her glass of wine,
was folding up her work. " I don't know the way
of course, but if it isn't very difficult, we might
walk it two or three times, and I daresay I could
learn it."

Oh, Ernest shall go with Lizzie," Miss
Caroline exclaimed. "It's only a step  don't
you remember the white house across the
lane ? "

Thorpe did remember.

I wouldn't have your escort for the world,"
said Lizzie gaily, as she bade him good-night. " I
should be afraid that you might forget after all.

and wander about Lesborough all night, and be
found dead of cold."

Like a Babe in the Wood ? " he suggested.

Worse  no leaves this time of year ! "

Take a good many to cover me at the best of
times, wouldn't it?" said Theophilus. As he
spoke Selina appeared with the brandy bottle,
inquiring if Lizzie was ready, and as Ernest was
visible, gloomily waiting in the background, the
girl went off in haste.

She had but a moody companion. He abused
Thorpe Fletcher's appearance, manners, coat, ring,
and Albert chain, until they reached her door.
"How we have wasted our time!" said Lizzie
sadly, " and I have so little time with you,
Ernest."

"Let us go a little farther," he pleaded in
sudden penitence.

She shook her head. " They will notice how
long you are. We mustn't run any risks."

He hesitated, but he knew that she was right.
Glancing along the deserted lane, he took her

hands in his. "Forgive me," he said. She
smiled in answer, and, stooping, he kissed her
fondly. Lizzie will remember that kiss to her
dying day  the eager beautiful eyes which looked
down into hers, the lips and hands which clung
as if they would never part, and overhead the
keen stars twinkling through the frosty air.

Theophilus briefly informed his sisters that he
had come on a matter of business, and should stay
some little time. He did not inform them that it
was very possible that Lesborough might once
more become his home. There was a large
foundry about a mile and a half from the town,
and he had learned that its owner was anxious to
retire from business. He thought that he saw a
much-desired opportunity for carrying out some
improvements in thrashing-machines and steam-ploughs
; and though he would not have suffered
any foolish sentiment to affect his plans, he was
glad that his opening should be at Lesborough.
Nowhere else could he so accurately measure the
height which he had reached.

As the days went by his prolonged stay became
a source of perplexity to Lizzie Grey. She knew
nothing about the business which detained him,
but even had all the negotiations about the
foundry been fully explained to her, she might
not have understood why it was needful for Mr.
Fletcher to haunt the High Street, day after day,
just when she went to and from her teaching.
Why did he watch her with such keen curiosity ?
And why did he try to conceal this curiosity
under an affectation of carelessness, which apparently
deceived others, though it could not
deceive her ? She was absolutely certain that he
listened intently to every syllable she uttered,
still with that same assumption of indifference.
At times he would be moody and preoccupied, but
Lizzie knew that he was preoccupied with thoughts
of her. Before he had been in Lesborough ten
days she was thoroughly alarmed and confused.
The High Street was full of Theophilus Fletcher,
and she fled through it with the hurried steps and
throbbing pulses of a hunted creature.

It was her solution of the mystery which
frightened her. There are some girls who fancy
that every man they meet is dying for them.
Lizzie was not one of these, but she did believe
that Mr. Fletcher was in love with her. The very
idea was terrible, and sent a flood of crimson to
her cheeks ; yet what else could she think ? How
otherwise could she account for his pursuit of her,
for the questioning glances which sought an answer
in her face ? More than once speech seemed so
imminent that Lizzie held her breath in terror,
and thought it miraculous that Ernest's suspicion
had not as yet been aroused. Any moment might
open his eyes, and concentrate his hatred on the
man she had fondly hoped would be his benefactor.
In fact his eyes must be opened before long, for
even while she tried to keep Theophilus at arm's
length, to avoid his glance, the touch of his hand, or
to escape when she saw him coming, she felt as if
she were knotting cobweb fetters to restrain some
great thick-skinned animal, who would be unconscious
of any bond. Not for one moment could

VOL. II. I

she hold him in check when he should decide that
the time had come. And when she had rejected
him everything would come out, and Ernest's
prospects would be rained.

It was quite true that Mr. Fletcher had an
interest in Lesborough besides the foundry. He
had come to see what he could do for poor Fanny's
boy. He said nothing of this to his sisters, who
would never have understood his feelings towards
Ms brother's wife. He hardly understood them
himself. He had thought her a limp, faded,
foolish woman ; he had seen no beauty in her, and
yet she had awakened in his heart a pity in which
scorn and kindness were curiously mixed ; a contemptuous
fidelity which lived when she was
dead. Prosperous and practical though he was,
there were times when he could almost have
fancied that he felt those fingers, cold and dead a
score of years, fluttering again at his heart, where
once her letter lay. He scorned idle sentiment,
which achieved nothing, but spent itself in vain
regrets. Yet he, of all men, was guilty of this

contemptible folly, since he could not forget his
useless pity. But might not its existence be justified
to himself, if, for its sake, he helped Ernest ?
He owned grimly that he did not think Fanny
had cared much about her boy, but he supposed
she might be different in Heaven. (Thorpe
inclined to the belief that all women went to
Heaven unless they were absolutely lad.) Let
that be as it might, it was his only chance of
doing anything for Fanny, and he took possession
of the young fellow with a benignantly despotic
smile. His determination was only strengthened
by the scowling glances and sullen words with
which his advances were met. But he had not to
deal with Ernest alone. On the threshold of
every scheme for his nephew's good, he encountered
an unlooked-for difficulty. How should he attack
it? He waited awhile, and tried to understand
Lizzie Grey. Then swiftly his mind was made up,
he snatched the earliest opportunity of action, and
Lizzie found herself face to face with the moment
she had dreaded.

It happened thus. She arrived early one
afternoon at Mrs. Croft's, flushed with the
excitement of having caught but a distant
glimpse of Mr. Fletcher on her way. She was
received with the news of a holiday for her little
scholars, their grand mamma having come unexpectedly
and taken them out. Mrs. Croft, however,
had no idea of losing Lizzie's services, and
asked her if she would mind walking to a farmhouse
about three miles off to give a message
about some butter. ~No one could be spared to go,
and if Miss Grey had no objection, as there were
no lessons

Miss Grey agreed at once, delighted to exchange
the little schoolroom, which smelt of cheese, for
the lonely road to Firewood Grange. In less than
five minutes she was on her way.

She grows prettier every day," said Mrs.
Croft, looking after her.

"No need," said the grocer from behind his
counter. " Prettiest girl in Lesborough now."

Mrs. Croft was right. Lizzie's face had been

almost too placid, and the anxiety which might
have made another look harassed and worn had
only given her the charm of swift glances and
varying expression. The prettiest girl in Les-borough
had never looked prettier than when she
started on her walk that afternoon.

It was an hour and a half later, and the
February day, losing its brief gleam of mid-day
gold, had grown chill and pale. Lizzie had successfully
accomplished her errand, and was just
starting on her homeward walk. She looked back
as she closed the little garden-gate, nodded a
bright farewell to the farmer's wife, and turned
into the road by a little plantation of stunted firs,
duskily green amid the general leaflessness. She
had a half-smile on her lips, for she was thinking
how pleasant it would be if by a happy chance
she should meet Ernest on her way, when a
man who was lounging by a roadside gate, cigar
in mouth, stepped forward and confronted her.
With a sudden throb she recognised Theophilus
Fletcher, and for a moment she halted ; but escape

was impossible, and she greeted him as calmly as
she could.

"How d'ye do?" he said, removing his cigar.
"Did I startle you?"

A little," said Lizzie, trying to smile.

I'm very sorry. But what a time you have
been ! I began almost to think you had gone by
the fields."

Lizzie, thunderstruck, devoutly wished she had.
"How did you know I was coming at all?" she
asked.

He laughed. " Oh, I pick up some bits of
useful knowledge about the town now and then.
Croft told me."

Lizzie, quickening her pace, kept silence, with
a desperate glance right and left, and ever the
same consciousness of his eyes upon her.

In a hurry ?" said Thorpe.

Oh yes ! Yes, I mean, I am rather in a
hurry."

"We'll walk a little faster, if you like," he
replied, with thoughtful consideration. "You

can't tire me." But Lizzie felt a despairing
conviction of the truth of his words, and knew
that any increase of speed was out of the
question.

"Why, you're out of breath already!" he said
after a moment. "I say, what's the good of
racing like that ? I want to talk to you."

"You want to talk to me?" she repeated
faintly.

Yes, I've something to say to you. What on
earth do you think I came all this way for ? "

It was coming, then ! For one horrible moment
the ground seemed to slip from under her feet,
and the leafless trees to reel and sway. " I'm sure
I don't know," she said.

Thorpe suddenly turned upon her. " What is
the matter with you, Miss Grey ?"

Nothing," was the almost inaudible reply.

I suppose you think I haven't got any eyes ?"
he said. It was the last thing Lizzie could think
when she could hardly endure them upon her.
I know better. Something is the matter. Anybody

been bullying you ? Governesses always
are bullied  aren't they ?"

No," said Lizzie. " Never mind me. Nothing
is the matter."

That means that something is wrong, but it's
no business of mine. Well, you're about right
there, I suppose. Only, you see, I came because
I wanted a quiet talk, and how am I to have it if
you can't look at me, and won't speak to me ?"

Lizzie, nerved with the courage of despair,
suddenly stopped, lifted her eyes, and looked him
steadily in the face.

I don't know what you can possibly have to
talk to me about, Mr. Fletcher, but I'll listen if
you'll say it."

And take myself off as soon as I've done, eh ?
That's what you mean, isn't it ? I say, I'm mismanaging
this frightfully somehow. I never know
how to make women understand things. I wanted
you to be particularly good-tempered, and here
I've half-offended you to begin with, and I haven't
a notion how, upon my word I haven't."

I am not offended," said Lizzie impatiently.
If there is anything you must say, say it."

He jerked the end of his cigar over the hedge,
and pushed out his lower lip. "It's a difficult
subject," he began, after a pause. " I lay awake
half last night, trying to see what was best to do,
and I made up my mind to have it out with you.
I thought you were a sensible sort of girl, and I
hoped you would take it as I meant it, though I
am rather a stranger."

"Well?" said Lizzie desperately.

It's about Ernest," said Mr. Fletcher.

She started. " About Ernest ! What about
him?"

"Why, you young people have hoodwinked
my sisters, but I can put two and two together 
at least," with a knowing twinkle in his eyes, " it's
enough to put one and one together in this case,
isn't it, Miss Grey ? and I can see pretty well how
the land lies, can't I ? You needn't be afraid  I
don't tell tales c?iY I?"

Lizzie laughed and blushed, hanging her head.

"I suppose you cau," she said at last, speaking
naturally and sweetly for the first time

I say," Thorpe exclaimed, with a sudden light
of amused intelligence dawning on his face, " what
did you think I was going to say that made you
so fierce and cold just now  eh ? Didn't think I
wanted to poach a little on Ernest's manor on my
own account, did you?"

Don't, please ! I don't know what I did
think," said Lizzie, crimsoning in her intense
anxiety not to blush.

He looked at her, and then laughed, not unkindly,
except so far as any laughter was unkind.
A way out of the difficulty which didn't occur tome,"
he said to himself, and smiled a little as he
walked.

They went a few steps in silence. " Look
here," said Theophilus suddenly. The tone was
so abrupt and imperious that Lizzie obeyed him
literally, looked up, and instantly forgot her
burning cheeks. The Thorpe of a moment earlier,
who had chuckled to himself over her confusion,

was all at once transformed, and it flashed upon
Lizzie as she looked at him that he could be very
hard.

Look here," he said. " I came here to do a
disagreeable thing, and I'm going to do it, and get
it over. I don't like it, you understand. It was
a good deal pleasant talking nonsense to you a
minute ago." Lizzie, though puzzled and a little
frightened, wondered what could be less pleasant
than the ordeal through which she had just
passed. " But of course that makes no difference,"
he added, " and the sooner it's said the better."

I haven't the slightest idea of your meaning,"
said Lizzie.

"Did you expect to guess it beforehand?" he
demanded. " Now, Miss Grey, you and that boy
have been making love over there"  (a nod
indicated Lesborough in the distance). " I don't
blame you, mind, it's natural enough. And I
don't blame him, he had nothing else to do. In
fact," he went on, gliding into a sort of monologue,
I could hardly have blamed him if he had done

much worse. I ought to have looked after him
long ago."

Lizzie objected to this view of her life's
romance, and was opening her lips to speak some
rather vehement words, but Theophilus came
suddenly to the point. "I don't blame you, I
say," he repeated, raising his voice, and looking
directly in her face. 'but I want you to give
him up."

Give him up 1" cried Lizzie, wonder and scorn
in her wide clear eyes. " Give him up ! " She
glanced incredulously at Fletcher, and laughed
aloud ; she could not help it.

There was not the faintest movement of his
face, not the least change in his look. One would
have said he had not so much as heard that involuntary
defiance. Lizzie stopped abruptly,
with a hurried glance over her shoulder, as if
some ghostly echo of her own laughter rang in
the air and mocked her.

"I want you to give him up," Theophilus
repeated in precisely the same tone. " Twenty

years ago I saw a woman die of a broken heart in
the house where I met you first."

His mother ?" said Lizzie.

Thorpe nodded. His eyes wandered from her
face across the desolate fields. " She used to sit
by the fire where you sat that night. She didn't
talk much, but she had a look in her eyes that
would make your heart ache. My sisters don't
mean to be unkind, I suppose, but if there were a
prize for aggravation they'd get it, you know.
(Not if they knew I'd backed them, though.
Then they wouldn't unless somebody found them
out.) They used to worry poor Fanny, and I
couldn't help her, but I said to myself that if ever
I could help the boy I would. For her sake, not
for his  wretched little baby he was, to be sure !"

Lizzie looked gratitude, defiance, and disgust.

I did not forget him, though I put off coming,"
Thorpe went on. "I ought to have been here
before this. The lad is getting his mother's
horrible, hopeless look ; he'll go mad, or cut his
throat, among the lot of you before all's done."

Lizzie shuddered. " No ! no ! " she cried,
He is very unhappy, I know, but it is not so bad
as that!"

You mean to take care of him, eh ? Well, I
daresay you could reconcile him to a good deal.
But how about the pounds, shillings, and pence,
Miss Grey ? When will Ernest earn enough for
you to live on?"

I don't know," was her reluctant admission.

Nor I. Chances don't always come to those
who are ready to seize them, and Ernest would
stand and hesitate ever so long before he could
make up his fastidious mind. But say he gets
something to do  what then ? Would he be
happy, drudging all his life for mere bread, even
with you by his side ?"

He touched the painful doubt which lurked,
almost unacknowledged, in the girl's heart.
Ernest's love was enough for her, but was hers
enough for Ernest ?

He'll never make his fortune," said Theophilus.
Strange how different men are, isn't it ? If anyone

came to me and said, ' You'll never make a
fortune, you are only fit to spend one,' I should feel
insulted. Ernest would take it as a compliment."

Very well," said Lizzie. " Suppose lie doesn't
make his fortune. I'm not afraid of being poor."

"Just as I thought," in a tone of patronage.
You are a couple of foolish young people, benton
ruining each other. Now I won't be a party
to it. I might help him up the ladder by himself.
That would be quite enough to do, for I couldn't
know less what to say to him or make of him if
he were a  a  a bishop in lawn sleeves ! But as
to helping him with a wife "

"Mr. Fletcher," this very fiercely, "I don't
want any of your help !"

But, my good girl, how can I help him without
helping you if this is to go on ? Say I make
him a clerk at the foundry. Won't he want to
marry as soon as he has a hundred a year?"

Ernest had many a time talked of that sum.

Say that I send him to college, and make a
parson of him "

Oh, if you would ! " she cried.

Won't he ask you to starve with him as soon
as he has a curacy ? And won't he be in difficulties
to the day of his death ? I won't have it. Where
should I have been if I had married at his
age?"

Why don't you speak to him, Mr. Fletcher ?
I'll set him free in a minute if he likes."

"Speak to the Man in the Moon !" said Theophilus.
" Now isn't that like a woman's speech 
sounds all right and fair, and not a grain of sense
when you come to look at it. Speak to him ! 
why, of course, instead of marrying on a hundred
a year, he'd want to do it tomorrow on nothing,
just to defy me. Speak to him if you like  you
know as well as I do what will be the end of
that. You will be very noble and self-sacrificing,
he will be devoted and indignant, and I shall get
my answer. The boy's as proud as Lucifer, and
thinks me a vulgar tradesman. I don't see," said
Thorpe, in a studiously mild voice, fixing his eyes
as he spoke on a clump of brambles a little farther

on, "I really don't see that I am bound to ash
him to throw my own money in my face."

This was unanswerable, especially as Lizzie
knew that every syllable was perfectly true. She
could imagine the defiant scorn with which Ernest
would receive his kinsman. They came to the
brambles at which Thorpe had been looking, and
he struck out suddenly and savagely at them with
his stick.

"But," cried the girl, looking up at the
stubborn features which contrasted strangely with
her blanched and quivering face, " do you know
what you are asking me to do ? ISTot only to give
him up  to give Ernest up !  but to let him think
me false,  to cast him off now that he is poor, for
he must not know that the good fortune is coming,
and that I am paying the price, or he will not take
it. Oh, you cannot know what you are doing !"

Thorpe just opened his lips, let out " I know,"
and shut them closer than ever.

Then I can't," cried Lizzie desperately. " It's
too much. I can't. Mr. Fletcher, I can't !"

VOL. II. K

'every well," lie said. "That's settled then.
You aren't angry with me for having asked you,
I hope?"

His promptitude dismayed her. " ISTo  stop ! "
she exclaimed. "Did I say I couldn't? But I
can't ruin Ernest  let me try to think a moment !
Mr. Fletcher, you must give me time ! "

As long as you please." He did not like his
task ; but his pity only pained him, it could not
change his resolution. He had an unforeseen
feeling that he was behaving like a brute to the
girl at his side. What then ? He was conscious
at the same time of a certain brute-strength and
tenacity which showed no symptom of failing
him.

They were slowly ascending some rising
ground, and the wintry landscape widened round
them. Theophilus scarcely saw it, but Lizzie's
eyes swept the sad horizon, and something of its
hopeless calm rose in her soul as she looked on
the dying of that gray and bitter day. Still the
lips which so short a time before knew Ernest's

good-night kiss were forced, by virtue of that
touch, to plead for the love of which it was the
sign. Yet there was a melancholy patience in her
voice which made the very struggle a surrender.

Mr. Fletcher."

He nodded.

Must it be for always ? If we waited a long,
long time  years and years "

Theophilus trod out the little spark of hope.
Have those appealing eyes to ha ant him for ever?
Lengthen this painful half hour to a lifetime?
"No!" he said aloud. "Do you think Ernest
would agree to wait for my consent? Besides,"
he added after a pause, " I have a fancy that perhaps
one day the Vaughanss may acknowledge the
lad, and give him a helping hand. I hate his
uncle myself, a fellow who could let his sister
pine away for want of a kind word ! But these
Vaughanss  for Ernest is one  are not happy with
us, and we had better part company. Only for
such a flight as that the boy must go free."

Another silence. "No offence to you," said

Theophilus. "You're a good girl, I'm sure, and
you're clever and pretty  uncommonly pretty.
I will say that for you "  (he had the grace to say
it in a sort of aside)  " and the Vaughan would
turn up their noses at you, as if you were dirt
under their feet. If you waited for years it must
come to the same end. Ernest must quarrel with
them, or part with you. Believe me, he belongs
to them  let him go."

"And does he not belong to me?" cried Lizzie
in her despair.

Ah, that you know best," said he. " If you
really believe he does, keep him."

But Lizzie felt, even as she spoke, that Ernest
aspired to something different from what a life
with her could ever be. How could she endure
hereafter to see him a discontented spiritless
drudge, and to know that she alone, of all people
in the world, had stood between him and wealth ?
The sweet dream of life and love with Ernest
would be marred if she held this secret for ever
in her heart. Yet if it were told, would it not

slowly sap, if it did not suddenly kill, his love for
her ? She looked up once more at Thorpe. He
stood, tapping his boot with his stick, not looking
at her, waiting for her decision, the incarnation of
cruel common sense, immovable as a rock. She
gave way all at once.

Mr. Fletcher, you are right, and I will set him
free. I will indeed! Only, can't you spare me
one thing  must he think me false? Don't let
him believe me so vile as to say over and over
again that I'd be true to him till death, and then
desert him like this !"

Show me how, and I'll do it," said Theophilus
doggedly: but he added under his breath, "if I
walk a thousand miles for it !"

Oh ! I can't." She moved on a little farther,
walking like one in a dream. Then, "It's allover,"
she said ; " I'll do it  let him think what
he likes. I promise  Mr. Fletcher, do you hear ?
I promise."

I hear," he said. But when he looked at her
something in her face startled him. " I say," he

hesitated. " You aren't going to  cry or  or anything,
are yon ? Don't, there's a good girl, if yon
can help it. You've behaved so uncommonly
well, you know."

Cry !" said Lizzie, with intense scorn. "Cry !
Mr. Fletcher, you don't understand. Girls cry for
little things. Perhaps "

"Yes, they do!" he assented with a sigh.
Even in her agony Lizzie noted it with bitter
amusement. Had ever girls been fools enough to
try to soften Thorpe Fletcher's heart with weeping?
" But you needn't be frightened. I shan't
cry now," she went on fiercely. " Tears wouldn't
be any good, unless one could shed them of
one's heart's blood, and die ! "

Don't ! " said Thorpe anxiously. He had
been like iron in the battle, but he felt feeble and
ashamed now that his triumph had come.

Suppose I break down," said Lizzie. " Suppose
when I try to deceive Ernest I find I can't !
What shall you say if I break faith with you so ?"

This was business, and he answered promptly,

'nothing at all. Our bargain will be off, of
course. You won't try to deceive me, not to
mention that I am rather too wide-awake to betaken
in by you."

We shan't try," she cried hotly.

"I know you won't. I said so. But don't
you think you run a greater risk? You've
nothing but my word. Can you trust me ?"

"Yes," she said, "I trust you." This man
had been cruel to her, had coolly swept her out of
his path ; she knew little of him, and yet she felt
that she could trust him utterly. And she was
right.

But what do you promise ? " she asked, after
a brief silence. "If Ernest refuses your help 
what then?"

Theophilus deliberated before he made answer.
I can manage Master Ernest somehow, perhaps
without his knowing anything about it. I won't
consider myself free so long as I am  well 
fairly well off, and he is poor. Will that do?
Only let us make it clear what I do undertake.

I don't promise that Ernest shall be my heir.
He may be, I can't say. I may marry, you
see."

Of course," she assented impatiently. What
did she care whether Thorpe Fletcher married or
remained single? She supposed there might be
women in the world who woidd care to have him
as a suitor. As to any property he might leave,
she did not give it a thought. Waiting for dead
men's shoes is a miserable occupation at the best
of times, but he would need a rare gift of patience
who should set himself to wait for the shoes of
this man of seven or eight and thirty, who stood,
strong, sleek, and healthy, by her side.

But whether I do marry or whether I don't,"
said Theophilus, " I'll do my best to provide for
him. I can't keep him in idleness, but if he
chooses to take his chance with me we'll grow
rich together. And if I'm not good enough for
my gentleman, which is most likely, he can go
into the Church. I suppose that will be good
enough  even for his mother's son."

They were close to Lesboroiigli, so close that,
not wishing to conclude their conversation in the
street, they halted on the old redbrick bridge,
just outside the town.

"That is settled, then," said Lizzie, with a
calmness which startled and almost deceived her
companion. "Now, good-bye, Mr. Fletcher, and
thank you."

Don't see that you've got much to thank me
for," was his reply. " But I won't forget you. If
ever there's anything I can do, if you'll just let
me know "

"Thank you," said Lizzie, again with an intensity
of scorn which he quite failed to comprehend.
" Whe7i I let you know."

I'm sure you deserve something," he went on,
fancying that his offers of service were accepted.
You've been so uncommonly good and sensible
about it  seen things in just the right light.
There aren't many girls "

Thanks, but never mind the rest. I'm cold
and tired, and I must hurry home."

Shake hands on our bargain' he said, holding
out his great hand with the ring on it.

"What need?" \Yas her answer, eyeing it
doubtfully. She felt a queer repugnance at the
idea of touching his hand, as if it had literally
thrust her away from Ernest. But he obstinately
held it out, and she ended by allowing her own to
be grasped and cordially shaken.

One moment," said Fletcher, still holding the
unwilling fingers, and bending down to look
through the gathering dusk at the yet more unwilling
face. "You are so quiet, I can't make
you out. Look at me, will you ? Are you going
to break your heart about it ? I daresay, after all,
you know best  why don't you stick to him and
throw me over, eh?"

I hold you to your bargain," she replied.

"You do? Well  only take a moment to
think it over, won't you?"

Do you want to back out of it, Mr. Fletcher?"

Oh, if that's how you put it, of course I
don't," he began.

She tried to wrench her hand away. "Who is
that  Ernest V she exclaimed.

His eyes followed her frightened glance, and
rested on an indistinct figure in the meadow below
standing by the water-side, almost in the shadow
of the bridge. It moved swiftly away as she
spoke. " I don't know," said Theophilus. " Are
you afraid of his seeing us ? A little bit of
jealousy might not be such a bad beginning,
eh?"

Lizzie stared blankly at him for a moment.
Then she crimsoned, tore her hand out of his
grasp, and fled.

Theophilus Fletcher was left on the old bridge.
It may fairly be supposed that he was triumphant ;
at any rate he was in possession of the battlefield,
for through the wintry twilight was dimly visible
a slim, graceful figure, flying in haste towards the
twinkling Lesborough lights, while another figure,
also with his back towards the conquering hero,
strode along the frozen river bank. The triumphant
man stood musing a little while. Then,

coming to himself with a shiver, he went home to
the house in the High Street, had tea with Selina
and Caroline, declined the cribbage with which
the younger of the sisters seemed disposed to
indulge him, and finished the evening with a
double allowance of brandy and water.

Events sometimes plod so wearily along that one
grows heartsick between them, but there are days
when they rush to meet one another. So at least
Lizzie thought when she had nerved herself to
encounter Ernest.

He was very unhappy. His uncle's coming
had driven him almost to despair. It was bad
enough before with Selina and Caroline, but his
home life had not altogether unfitted him to wage
a womanish war of words, and they had no advantage
over him, except the possession of their small
income, and the melancholy little house. But
Theophilus took his stand upon the solid ground
of his success, and was not to be conquered with
words. In that feminine household it had seemed

no disgrace to live from day to day in idleness ;
but his uncle's presence reminded Ernest that he
too was a man, with a man's inheritance of toil.
Since the first night he had felt that heavy hand
ever on his shoulder, impelling him towards the
destiny he hated.

Lizzie, timidly doubting what she could say to
him, was assailed with a storm of reproaches. As
in bodily pain Ernest might have bitten his lip,
or clenched his hand, till the self-inflicted torment
partially deadened the other, so his sombre irritation
found some relief in making Lizzie a sharer
of his suffering. Eor in his eyes she was one with
himself, and he never dreamed that anything
could part them. His attack was not altogether
without cause, for Lizzie's apparent friendliness
with the man he hated most on earth made his
burden heavier to bear. But, angry as he was, he
did not really believe the insinuations he made.
He could not seriously think that Lizzie was false
to him. He had a show of right on his side, and,
goaded to madness, he used the weapon which was

ready to his hand. Did he not know that she
would refute the accusation, and promise to have
no more to do with the hated Theophilus ?

Ten minutes later the pair stood with averted
eyes, aghast and incredulous. Neither had ever
realised the horror of the blow which had fallen
upon them; they felt as two children might, if,
being at play, they chanced to put out the sun in
heaven. Ernest, instead of being caressed and
soothed, had met with a swift and terrible reply,
If you think so meanly of me, we had better
part." Even then he could not think she meant
what she said. He shifted his ground a little.
Had he no cause for thinking so ? " he demanded.
Cause ! " she replied indignantly, while she
struggled with the great lump which would come
up in her throat at the thought of the pain she
was inflicting. " If you are capable of suspecting
me  and it seems you are capable  it is enough,
and more than enough ! " As she uttered the
words she felt that fortune had favoured her
marvellously. She was getting on nicely, she

thoiiglit, and her heart was breaking. And Ernest
remarked to himself, with a stab of despair, the
intensity of the anger which almost choked her
voice. " I have offended her for ever," he thought,
and he answered in a mood as desperate as her
own.

Not ten minutes and it was accomplished, this
e\T.l which could never be undone. No fullest
expression of penitence, no passionate kisses of
reconciliation, could efface the memory of this
moment when they were two, when, though their
bitter wounds were aching, they stood apart in
their divided lives. If Lizzie had not understood
this, she must have thrown herself at Ernest's feet
to ask for pardon. " But it would never be the
same again ! " she cried to herself " It would be
worse than if I had never listened to Thorpe
Fletcher. It is too late  too late  but why did
God ever let him come ! " Too late  she drew
herself up, and stood with lips compressed and
downcast eyes.

Too late for Ernest also. He had gone so far

that he did not know how to draw back. He
would have given anything in reason  say all his
life but just a quarter of an hour  to have undone
the work of those few minutes and taken his love
to his heart again. But he could not sacrifice his
pride; so he too stood in gloomy silence, stunned, and
vaguely thinking what a merciful thing an earthquake
would be, or any peril that might give him
a chance of springing to Lizzie's side to die with
her. But the lane at the bottom of the Misses
Fletcher's garden, with a bit of orange peel and a
little wisp of straw lying in the dust, and its dead
walls garnished with broken bottles, hardly seemed
the place in which to hope for any startling deliverance.
None came, indeed. Only a boy appeared,
wheeling a barrow, and whistling "Beautiful Star."
As he went by he looked up sideways, with impudent
curiosity, at the lady and gentleman who stood
so silently, a little way apart, and was so much
amused that he trundled his barrow as slowly as
possible, while Ernest scowled at him.

But at last the urchin's red woollen comforter,

VOL. II.  L

fluttering in the bitter wind, disappeared round
the corner; "Beautiful Star," very much out of
tune, died away in the distance, and the young
man advanced a step and spoke.

There's no use in standing here to be stared
at, is there ? And as I daresay we shan't meet
for a long time, we might as well say good-bye."

Startled, she raised her eyes, and never saw
the tremulous hand which was almost ready to beheld
out. " What do you mean ? Ernest, are you
going away?" And her heart beat with sudden
fear, lest the lad should rush from the net which
she and Theophilus had so benevolently woven
for him.

Very probably," he replied, with a faint flush
of gratification at the idea of playing the part of
superior coolness. " I have not, as you know, had
time to make any plans, but I shan't trouble you
long."

"Don't do anything rash!" she cried, "Ernest
don't!"

He looked at her in wonder, for he could not

mistake the tone of passionate entreaty. Then,
since she did care what became of him, why had
she cast him off? Was it for Thorpe Fletcher ?

I don't quite understand," he said. " I'm not
going to cut my throat or be found in the river 
do you mean that ? "

(The latter assurance especially was not hard
to give. It might have been different on a sultry
August afternoon, when the current was strong
and cool between its reedy banks, with the eternal
blue above it, and the burnished dragon-flies darting
over the little pools. Ernest might have
fancied then that he had strength enough to
end his troubles, where it was smooth and deep
beneath the old red bridge. But to push away
the leafless bushes, to break the thin crust of ice,
and to plunge, with numb fingers and chattering
teeth, into the black stream which slid below 
he knew well that he had not courage for that,
nor indeed for any violent end just then. His
chilly, languid frame shrank from the thought of
blood, or poison, or half-frozen water.)

"10, no, no!" cried Lizzie; "don't speak as if
such things were possible ! And don't be hasty 
take time to think before you decide on anything.
It's your whole life, you know  oh, take time !"

You are very kind," said Ernest, striving hard
to preserve his lofty coolness. " I daresay I shall
manage very well, thanks."

God grant you may ! Ernest, try not to be
angry with me !"

"My anger can't matter much to you now;
and I hope other people will be pleased with you
as no doubt they will. What more can I say ?"

You mistake me," she said. " You are unjust
to me 1 "

Was he unjust? He turned upon her with
sudden passion. "Prove it !" he said. His voice
was changed, his very features were transformed ;
he towered above her, prouder and manlier than
ever before. "Prove it, and I will ask your
pardon on my knees 1" But he took her swift
change of colour for the pallor of conscious guilt,
and before she could even stammer "ISTo, no, I

lizzie's bargain 149

can't' in deadly fear at having so nearly betrayed
herself, his face had relaxed, and wore its former
look.

I beg your pardon," he said ; " I forgot we
had settled that it was all over. I needn't stop
any longer, I think. Good-bye." He lifted his
hat to her with stately courtesy, as if he were
the proudest of the Vaughanss, instead of young
Fletcher, the bankrupt ironmonger's son, and
before she could answer his good-bye he was
gone.

Lizzie never knew how she got home, though
she had a dim recollection of climbing the stairs
to her room, and feeling as if the steps were
multiplied by tens and twenties. Then she was
lying on the floor, wondering why God would not
let people die outright, when they did not want
to go to heaven or anywhere. What was the
good of dying if one could not sleep even then,
but must wake and live again ! Oh, what a
sham a quiet churchyard was, and what a mockery
a corpse's face ! If she were dead her face would

be still and full of rest, and all the time she
would be alive somewhere, and if alive, then
thinking of Ernest; and if thinking of Ernest,
then, although dead, still crying out for death.
So she moaned in her first misery, lying on the
boards.

But after a time she sat up, pushed back the
dark cloud of her hair which had fallen down,
clasped her hands round her knees, and thought
of Thorpe Fletcher. She had done her part, and
he must do his ; and he would do it, she was well
assured, for he was true as steel. Her only fear
was lest Ernest should decide on anything rash
before Theophilus could interpose, and she would
not suffer herself to think of this possibility.
Her weakness left her no choice but to trust this
man utterly. She told herself that she hated
him ; yet, as she sat on the garret floor, her only
comfort was to dwell on his name, "Thorpe
Fletcher," as if it were a tower of strength.

Her mother, calling from below, " Lizzie, are
you ready ? Do you know that it is nearly two

o'clock?" brought her suddenly back to the world
of fixed hours and afternoon lessons. She sprang
to her feet and put up her hair with trembling
fingers. The face which looked out of the dusky
little glass was white, but very brave. The great
clear eyes looked straight into the future, and saw
a hopeless life of poverty. From first to last her
one thought must be to pinch and save. She
would grow thin and faded in her dreary round
of teaching ; she could never marry because she
could not love again ; her gladness was over, and
all her bright days were gone. She would work
for her mother ; but in due time her mother
would die, and she would be left alone. And
after awhile there would be no Lizzie any longer,
but a Miss Grey, with a prim cap and formal
manners, trying to save a little for herself, and to
keep her old age out of the workhouse, by imparting
her small stock of knowledge and feeble old-fashioned
accomplishments to the children of her
former scholars. Perhaps, when she should be
altogether past work, if she were very fortunate.

her little savings, with a little charity, might
suffice for the needs of her frugal existence,
and lay her in the ground when it was over.
Hurrying to Mrs. Croft's that afternoon, she took
the first step towards this life from which she so
recoiled. If it had been only for a little while 
but she felt so young as she ran down the street !
So young that she was sure she could escape no
portion of this dreaded fate. She would have
time and strength to sound its every depth. She
would Hve long years with it, till she gradually
assumed the hideous likeness of her destiny. It
was not the poverty she feared, but the Lizzie
Grey who would remain when all was done.

As the town clock struck three that afternoon,
Ernest knocked at the door of a cottage where a
jobbing gardener lived, who was employed at rare
intervals by the Misses Fletcher. " Can your
husband lend me a pickaxe ? " he asked the woman
who opened it.

The abrupt question confused her. "I don't
know, sir, I'm sure," she said. " Won't you step
in and speak to Clark? He's had a kind of a
chill on him this last week, and to-day says I,
Clark,' I says, ' you just stay at home and Til get
you some stuff from the doctor's, or you'll be
regular ill.' "

Ernest strode past her to where Clark cowered
over a black kettle, which indicated the spot

where a fire was supposed to be, and repeated his
request.

"Can I lend you a pick?" said Clark, laboriously
turning the idea over in his mind. " I don't
know as how I can. Bill, you leave that poker
alone." (Bill, who was thumping a saucepan-lid,
kindly desisted for a moment, and sat on the floor,
staring up at Ernest.) " Leastways I must have
it back afore night. I've got a job to do tomorrow.
Us poor men can't afford holidays same
as you gentlefolks can."

I'll bring it by six," said Ernest impatiently.
"Will that do?"

I don't know but that'd do well enough. But
whatever do you want a pick for, Mr. Ernest?
The ground, it's like iron with the frost."

That's why I want the pick, of course," said
Ernest quickly. He turned to Mrs. Clark, who
had dusted a chair for him. " No, thank you ; I
won't sit down. I'll take it if you'll give it me,
please. ISTo, I won't have one of the boys bring it.
I'd rather carry it myself, and I want it noisy

He drew a long breath of relief when he stood
once more under the leafless limes, where there
was small fear of any intruder. The little maid
had gone on an errand, Dorcas would not leave
her warm kitchen, Aunt Caroline, too, would have
hesitated for an hour before she ventured out in
such bitter weather, Aunt Selina was nursing a
swelled face over the parlour fire, and, most important
fact of all, Theophilus had been summoned
to town by a telegram, and would not return till
the next day. Ernest might go fearlessly to work.
A spade lay where he had flung it in anger at its
uselessness, and pussy blinked sleepily in the most
sheltered corner. Ernest began his task with
vigorous, if unskilful strokes. Cold as it was, he
was soon glad to strip off his coat, which made a
nest for Sandy, while he resumed his work with
redoubled energy, striking fiercely at the hard
earth. Since he parted with Lizzie he had
weighed every word she had uttered. When she
answered him indignantly, he had been sure of
his own injustice. When she betrayed her sudden

confusion, he had doubted. Since he had
been left to himself he was sure of her guilt.
She saw I should never do any good, and she's
right  I never shall. There he was, paying her
attentions ; a rich man, who could make her
mother and her safe and comfortable for life ; and,
naturally enough, she is ready to take him."
Ernest stopped aghast. Was he thinking thus of
Lizzie ? " I'd have killed any fellow who hinted
half as much a week ago !" he thought.

He judged Theophilus and acquitted him. " He
acts after his kind  that's all. He doesn't know
what she was to me, and he's just the man to
amuse himself with a pretty girl. He's busy now ;
but he'll remember her as he comes from town tomorrow,
and smile his sleek smile, and cross his
legs, and think how well he sees through her, and
how pretty she is, and  oh, Lizzie, Lizzie, why
weren't you true to me ! I was a poor sulky
brute, and I was rough to you often, but in my
heart of hearts I worshipped you ! Poor girl, she
is sorry for me, I know. Perhaps she thinks that

one of these days she will sit on Thorpe Fletcher's
knee, and put her arm round his neck, and coax
him to do something for poor Ernest. And poor
Ernest will take whatever is given him, of course !
No ; I think we're neither of us quite so poor  are
we, Sandy ?  as to take anything from Lizzie Grey.
I know a better way than that  don't I ? "

He had planned his own future easily enough.
Never again, if he could help it, would he see
Lizzie or Thorpe. He would leave Lesborough
that night, and enlist on the morrow. But he had
not forgotten his poor old favourite. It should
not be starved and stoned when he was gone ; it
should not even, in some groping way, miss the
little kindness its dreary life had known. The air
resounded with his ringing strokes as he toiled at
his final provision for Sandy. It might be absurd
to spend so much thought on his cat, just when he
had lost his love and all his hope ; but Ernest
looked as tragic as if the grave were for Lizzie
herself instead of the wretched animal which sat
licking its paws and washing its ugly face. And

in truth he meant to lay something of the past in
it. He had always been sure that his cat would
be petted for his sake, and the grave was to be a
token for ever that he would rather trust aught
that he loved to its keeping than to Lizzie's.

Presently Sandy drew himself up into a hideous
arch and mewed.

You're hungry, poor old fellow ! " said Ernest,
rubbing softly under the skinny chin outstretched
to court his caresses. " And I've nothing for you
nothing, Sandy ! but very soon it won't matter ;
and I rather think you'll be the best off, after all.
Only I don't like this murderous sort of mercy.
If you could only understand ' But to be in the
dark, and to be helped so  oh, Sandy, poor old
Sandy ! I do hope I shall manage to do it so
quickly that you won't have time to know that it
is I!"

A snowflake fell upon his hand, the herald of
a multitude flickering slowly down. He looked
up, saw the lilac-boughs stirring uneasily against a
threatening sky, and accomplished the brief remainder

of his task in haste, while the storm
whirled round him. It was all over, the deed
was done, and the young fellow, feeling very
like a murderer, was stamping the earth down
again, and trying to efface the traces of his work,
when through the eddying flakes came a peevish
cry, " Ernest ! Ernest ! Are you out there,
Ernest ? "

"Coming!" he cried with unwonted alacrity,
for he did not want any one to come to him.
Coming directly ! " He gave a final touch to the
ground, thrust his tools aside, and catching up his
coat, he struggled into it as he ran.

Miss Caroline eyed him with sour curiosity.
What's the matter with you ? " she said.
"Here's a letter come by the second post, who
on earth is it from ? "

Letters were not plentiful with Ernest. He
opened this one, read it, and uttering a curious
inarticulate cry, he caught at the doorpost to
steady himself For a moment all things vanished
in a sudden haze. Then he seemed to see Aunt

IV

Caroline, with open mouth and startled eyes,
swimming in the mist, and clutching feebly at
him.

Dorcas ! Selina ! 'VMiat has come to the
boy?"

The tone brought them both  Dorcas wiping
her hands on her apron, and Miss Selina muffling
her swelled face in a shawl. Ernest had recovered
himself a little, and stood up in the midst of the
wondering group.

It is good news ! " he began. " At least 
no ! " drawing a hasty veil of propriety over the
bare selfishness. " I mean it is good for me,
though it is very sad. My uncle, Mr. Vaughan,
has been drowned yachting in the Mediterranean,
with his only son."

And you'll have some money ? " cried Miss
Selina.

The estate  Southdale. At least so I understand
it."

Southdale ! " The sisters looked at each
other in awe ; they had heard of the glories of

Southdale. " Let me look ! " said Aunt Selina,
gasping for breath. Ernest resigned the letter,
and the spinsters' faded faces jostled each other
over the wonderful tidings. Sudden transformations
are not confined to fairy tales and pantomimes,
as we are prosaically wont to believe.
When the Misses Fletcher looked up from that
magical page, there stood before them, where their
sullen slouching nephew had been but a moment
earlier, a tall aristocratic young man, carelessly
and even meanly dressed, it is true, but betraying
his rank in look, and word, and distinguished ease
of manner. " Oh, Ernest, my dear boy, what a
happy day this is ! " cried Miss Selina, and
offered him her best cheek to kiss ; while
Miss Caroline fondled one of his hands in her
skinny fingers. "Oh, what a happy day!" she
echoed.

Isn't it ? " said Ernest. He drew himself up
and away from Miss Selina's caress, and she could
only fasten herself on his other hand. " Isn't it a
happy day ? Does any one know whether there

VOL. II. M

is a Mrs. Vaughan ? What do you suppose she
thinks of it ? "

Since Providence has ordained it, we will
hope she sees that it is her duty to be resigned,"
said Miss Selina.

And I daresay she is well provided for," Miss
Caroline interposed.

That would make resignation easier, no
doubt " said Ernest. " Do you think a good example
would help her at all? Because I feel
quite resigned to my fate, and shall be happy to
set her one. You would be sure of the wisdom of
Providence if you were in my place, wouldn't you,
Aunt Selina ? I must show myself worthy of
being your nephew."

"That I am sure you will do," she said
warmly.

Are you really ? Quite sure ? And Aunt
Caroline too?" (She was testifying delight by
rapturously worrying his hand.) " How should I
begin?" He looked from one to the other with a
sneer. " By being grateful to Providence, that

lizzie's bargain 163

when the yacht went down my uncle was onboard
? Oh ! and do I add a special thanksgiving
because my cousin went down with him ? "

"My dear Ernest!" she hesitated, "I am
not sure that I would put it so, exactly."

Ernest is a little excited and can't be expected
to X3ick his words just now' exclaimed Miss Caroline.
She turned to Dorcas. " Of course Mr.
Ernest is a little excited, it's only natural, isn't it,
Dorcas ? "

Dorcas had rapidly decided that she had
nothing to hope from Ernest. The bitter dislike
between them had been the growth of years.
No use my trying to smooth him down now, he
won't stand it," she thought, so she answered
sourly. " Well, Miss Caroline, that sort of talk
may come natural to Mr. Ernest  seemingly it
does  but I call it downright wicked  so there ! "

Ernest wrenched himself away from his aunts,
and grasped her hand. "And you call it just
what it is," he said ; " it's the truest word you
ever spoke, old Dorcas, and God knows I'm

sorry for the poor lady ! " (As it happened Mr.
Vaughan had been five years a widower.) Dorcas
stood utterly confounded, having merely followed
the instinct which led her to say the most disagreeable
thing she could. Golden possibilities
flashed before her eyes, but she had no idea how
she had pleased Mr. Ernest, nor what she ought
to do for the future.

"Now mind," said the young master sharply,
"not a word about this till tomorrow  not a
syllable to any one. My affairs shan't be chattered
about in this gossiping hole till I am well out of
it."

Oh no ! Of course not !" said the sisters, with
blank disappointment on their faces. And Selina
added, "You mean to go tomorrow then?"

"First train. Don't you see this man says
they'll meet me ? If it weren't for that I'd go tonight."


''Oh, Ernest!" moaned Aunt Caroline, "is it
too much to spend one more evening in your old
home before you leave it for your splendour?"

"You will go before Thorpe gets back!" cried
Selina in dismay.

'well, you don't suppose I should stop for
him'' said Ernest. "If I were going to start as
an ironmonger he might be some good. He
wouldn't exactly help me in starting as a gentleman!"


The sisters quite agreed with him in this estimate
of Thorpe, and Selina felt rather ashamed
of having mentioned him at all.

Ernest's remembrance of that evening is like
the remembrance of a dream, where vivid clearness
wars with as vivid a sense of unreality. He had
that dreamlike feeling of central loneliness with
which the sleeper sees a stream of fantastic changes
eddying round him, while he is himself unchanged.
The spinsters' fond caresses were grotesque and
hateful as a nightmare. But the time came at last
when he could escape from their tearful enumeration
of his many virtues, and take refuge yet once
more in his garret. He had to pack, he said.

His packing did not take him long. He put a

few clothes into a little portmanteau, adding to
them one or two trifles which had belonged to his
mother, and a couple of books which Mr. Markham
had given him. Then he stood looking at a faded
rose, some morsels of coloured sewing silk, and a
torn scrap of paper with fragments of words
pencilled on it in a dashing hand. Gifts from
Lizzie he had none. Once, in the first bloom of
his passion, he had declared that true love had no
need of such tokens, and Lizzie had reverenced the
chance utterance as a sacred law. But later
Ernest himself had felt a natural longing for some
remembrance of her, and had hoarded these things
for her sake. He eyed them a moment, crushed
them in his hand so that the dry rose crumbled
into innumerable fragments, and openings fingers,
let them drift to the floor and lie there. The act
was emphatic. There is a certain tenderness in
burning such things. You will treasure them no
longer, but at least they shall be safe from insult.
Though love may be dead, no unkindly hand shall
be laid upon the corpse. But Ernest left the

memorials of his first dream to Dorcas and the
dust-hole.

He flung himself on his bed, and tried to realise
his altered fortunes. But it was too bewildering.
A gulf had suddenly opened to part him from his
former life, and Selina, Caroline, Theophilus, nay,
Lizzie herself, stood on the farther side. The idea
of her faithlessness glided past him in the strange
procession of events, and seemed natural enough
in the universal change. So, between sleeping and
waking, the night wore away, till the Lesborough
clock struck five, slowly as if it were a knell.
Ernest suddenly remembered that Clark was going
to work that morning and would want his tools.
It was a curious fact that nothing was changed for
Clark, and that he was still doomed to toil with
the pickaxe which Ernest had borrowed in a
previous existence, and omitted to return. It set
bounds to the stupendous transformation which
had absorbed the young man's thoughts. He perceived
that he was not the centre of the universe,
and was somewhat sobered and saddened in consequence.

And lie also perceived that he had
broken his word. After lying for a few minutes,
meditating on these things, he sprang up and
hurried on his clothes in the dark, for his candle
had long since died in the socket. " He can't goto
work before six," he said to himself. ''I have
time yet," and he felt his way downstairs, unbolted
the door, and stepped into the garden.

It was cold but very still. There was no breath
of wind nor any sound of life. After a minute,
when his eyes became accustomed to the darkness,
he distinguished the line of the wall, and guided
himself by that till he turned the corner, trod on
a roughened spot, and knew that he had reached
Sandy's grave. He knelt on one knee to feel for
his tools, and having found them, he lingered,
laying his hand on the cold earth, as if he caressed
his dead favourite. "Good-bye, old Sandy," he
said softly; "if I had only known, you should
have feasted like a king, old fellow ; but it's too
late. Only last night, Sandy, you came to me,
mewing to be let in " As Ernest spoke he

chanced to look up, and the words died on his lips.
Overhead a lamp in a garret window burned like a
great star in the blackness, girding a leafless poplar
with a band of yellow light. The world slept, but
Lizzie shared his vigil. He knelt for a moment,
gazing upward. Then he started to his feet and
spoke under his breath, lifting his hand towards
the far-off brightness.

If I have judged wrongly  if I have misunderstood
 I dare not think it, but if I have 
God give me a chance to make amends ! If she
marries Thorpe Fletcher I shall know that I was
not mistaken. If not, I will come back some day,
we will stand face to face, and this miserable
mystery shall be cleared up. Till then, good-bye,
my Lizzie, if by any wonderful chance my Lizzie
still lives." He stamped in sudden anger on the
hardened ground. "As if I didn't know it is
impossible ! Shall I come back and ask to be
fooled a second time ? " He turned to go, but
memories of the moments he had spent there, of
the beauty which was his life's one charm, of the

love wliicli never failed him till that fatal day,
conspired to hold him back. He looked over his
shoulder at the window, across which a shadow
moved. " I will wait three years ! " he vowed.
"I will not speak for three years. But then 
then  Lizzie ! " He made his vain resolve with
the fervour of boyish certainty, he meant every
syllable of it, he was ennobled by his victory over
his bitter pride. How could he realise that the
next three years might be a new lifetime, and
that before they were over, Lizzie, and Lesborough,
and this passionate promise of his, might be but
faded memories of a past to which he could not
return ?

Thorpe dwelt complacently on the thought

that Mr. Vaughan, who disowned his sister because
she married the ironmonger, had got the
ironmonger's boy for his heir. Then he remembered
Lizzie, and smiled to himself. "No need
for her to trouble herself about our bargain now.
He'll be true to her, I think  he ought to be
kicked if he isn't  a girl like that ! She deserves
her luck  she's one in a thousand!" Later in
the afternoon, when he had ended his meditations,
and rested awhile in pleasant drowsiness, he looked
at his watch, sprang up hastily, and went out,
hoping to meet Miss Grey.

He did meet her, and stopped short. This was
not the flushed, excited, triumphant girl he had
expected to see. She was pale and cold, and held
out her hand to him with a quiet smile. " I
wanted to speak to you, Mr. Fletcher," she said.

Is it possible  haven't you heard?" he began.

"About that poor Mr. Vaughan? Yes, Miss
Selina told me this morning."

Selina ! Didn't Ernest tell you himself ?"

She shook her head. " Ernest will never tell

me anything more. We had a difference yesterday.
It is all over."

Thorpe stood aghast. 'you kept your word
then!" He whistled softly, then finding that she
only looked at him in silence, he recovered himself
with a laugh. "Father a complication!" he
said. " We were a little too quick, eh ? But we
must set all that right, you know."

I thought you would say that."

"Of course I say so. That was what you
wanted me for ? "

They were at Lizzie's door. " Please come in
I won't keep you long," she said, and he followed
her into a fireless and only partially-furnished
room. The low ceiling made it oppressively
sad, and it was very cold. Thorpe shuddered in
his thick coat, and felt as if Lizzie had ushered
him into his sepulchre. She glanced at the desolate
hearth. " I'm sorry we have no fire. Won't
you sit down ? "

It doesn't matter  no, I'd rather stand, thank
you." He rested his arm on the chimney-piece ashe

spoke, and looked curiously at her. Why washer
face so white and still ?

How will you set everything right, Mr.
Fletcher?"

Oh, leave that to me  I'll see about it  don't
be afraid," he said with a slight swagger in his
tone. But it ended in a shiver. " Miss Grey, I
hoped you knew me better than to think I'd
leave you in the lurch."

I didn't think it for a moment. I knew you
wouldn't."

He advanced a step. "Well, what on earth
makes you look so miserable then ? "

How will you set everything right ? " she
repeated, fixing her eyes on his as she drew back.

"How? I shall go to Ernest, tell him my
plan, and the bargain I made with you  I'll take
care he understands how uncommonly well you
behaved  and I'll either bring him back, or a
letter saying lie isn't far behind it. That'll do, I
think?"

Thank you. Now listen to me. I forbid you

to say one word about me to Mr. Ernest Fletcher
mind, not one word. If you do, I will never
forgive you as long as I live."

He was not surprised, for he believed it was
the proper thing for girls to be romantic and high
flown. Of course it meant nothing. She was a
nursery governess, and Ernest had thousands a
year. He looked her coolly in the face and
smiled.

"And if I didn't, Miss Grey, I should never
forgive myself. On the whole I fancy that might
be the worst. Don't think I make light of your
anger, it will be very terrible, no doubt, but I
must bear it as I have borne a good many things ;
and as Ernest is not particularly fond of me, I'm
not likely to see much of you in future  am I?"
He spoke in an easy tone, and waited for her
answer. He expected a little more apparent reluctance.
It was very foolish, but he felt that he
owed her a patient hearing.

You will go to him in spite of me then ?" she
said.

He nodded. "Rather well put," he thought.
"I reply 'Yes.' She shrugs her shoulders  the
matter is taken out of her hands. She has not
asked the young man to come back to her, and of
course she is not answerable for what / insist on
doing. I call that neat." But as he looked at
her with smiling decision, it suddenly struck him
that there was a strangely resolute look in Lizzie's
eyes. Could there be some earnest in the sham
fight ? He hurried up an argument.

What do you take me for. Miss Grey, to ruin
your prospects, when I can't fulfil my share of
the bargain? Eemember, I can do nothing for
Ernest now."

She answered swiftly, " AHien we were walking
home that day, you said Ernest would never be
happy here, but that if he went to his own people
he must go alone. You meant it, I suppose ? "

Ah, but that was different. He would have
had his uncle to please. Iow he has only himself."


Isn't he to have any friends then ? Was

Mr. Vaughan the only man in the world who
would have looked down on me ? Say, if you can,
that it would not be better for Ernest to be free.
Ah ! you cannot ! "

Why would she force the unwelcome truth
from him ? " Let Ernest decide that," he
said.

He can't. If you tell him, you mil compel
him to come back. No, for his sake it is
best as it is. We have served him," this with
a dim smile, " though not quite as you
meant."

"But for your sake?"

For my sake you must be silent." She advanced
a step, and looked up into his perplexed
face. " Mr. Fletcher, if I were your sister, would
you go and ask a man to come back to me the
day after he came into a fortune ? You know you
wouldn't, you would be too proud, you would die
sooner. Oh, can't you understand that even I am
too proud for that ! "

You mustn't sacrifice yourself to your pride,"

VOL. II. N

he said, for justice impelled him to take her part
against herself and his nephew. "Ernest could
only love you the better for what you have
done."

"For the first moment  yes. But he would
soon think, ' She could give me up  for my sake,
no doubt  still she could give me up when I
was poor, and she found she could not as soon
as I was rich.' No, I should die of shame.
It is best as it is. I know that I am not fit for
him, and you know it too. You must keep ray
secret."

He stood silent and perplexed. He no longer
questioned her sincerity, but might she not
repent ?

You won't give me your word ? Very well,
then I give you mine, that I won't listen to him
if you bring him back. You will have betrayed
me for no good. You know whether I mean
what I say, and when I gave him up I gave him
up altogether."

If he comes of his own free will ?"

She smiled a little. " We wil talk of that
when it happens, or the day after doomsday, if
you like. He will not come. He used to want
me," her voice quivered as she said it, "but he
will not want me now."

In his heart Theophilus perfectly agreed with
her. Pride and temper would assuredly keep
Ernest away till he had had time to appreciate
his new position, and then there was little chance
of his return. And for that very reason he was
anxious that Lizzie should think well before it
should be too late. "You are sacrificing yourself,"
he said.

"Not now," she answered. "That was done
and finished when we were on the bridge. You
are only asking me to undo it."

Giving up the master of Southdale appeared to
Thorpe widely different from giving up a sulky
lad, who was too fastidious to work for this living.
He stared at the fender, drawing down his brows
in a heavy frown. The engagement would no
doubt be an undesirable one for Ernest, whose

feelings and ideas would naturally alter, and who
would find himself bound to his boyish love when
nothing else of his boyhood remained in him.
Such marriages were seldom happy, people said,
and Ernest was one who would be ashamed of his
wife's lowly origin, and who would live in uneasy
apprehension lest she should betray it by word or
look. It could be a mistake, Thorpe was sure of
it. Lizzie herself said the same, and refused to
call her lover back. Then why should he go out
of his way to injure poor Fanny's boy, and bring
about this perilous marriage ?

But this girl  was she to toil her whole life
through, while young Ernest spent his uncle's
fortune ? She had given up all for his sake  was
he to go away, rejoicing in his escape from the
scheming woman who had outwitted herself in
jilting him ? And Theophilus himself  should
he turn on his heel, not one farthing the poorer
for that bargain of theirs, and leave her despoiled
of all ? God forbid ! Thorpe's sturdy sense of
justice cried out, and deep down in his heart there

Awoke a new and strange feeling of wonder, of
reverence, of something for which he knew no
name. Had he not been so abominably cold that
all energy was chilled out of him, it seemed to
him that he might have risen to the occasion, and
known what to say and do. But though Lizzie
faced him calmly, Theophilus was shivering from
head to foot, and felt helpless and blue. What
could he do but make his escape without having
absolutely pledged himself to silence ?

"If I did promise to keep your secret," he
said, " it would have to be on one condition. You
must let me do what I can to help you, and to
make some amends."

He stopped in the hesitating sentence, for he
encountered her scornful glance. " I don't think
I understand," she said. " Are you offering to 'pay
me for giving up Ernest ? I think we may as
well say good-bye now, I needn't keep you in the
cold any longer." Something in her look made
Theophilus sure that his misery must be very
evident indeed. " Only, Mr. Fletcher, I hope you

quite see that any interference between Ernest
and myself will be worse than useless. You
wished to part us, and you did it. You may as
well be content with that, for you cannot bring us
together again."

Repulsed, scorned, and numb with cold, Thorpe
Fletcher still saw that haunting phantom of
justice, and did his best to follow it. He tried to
say that perhaps  at some future time  if she
should think better of it  aud found himself in
the act of being ceremoniously shown out of the
vault-like room. The sky outside was heavy with
coming snow, and with one glance at it he hurried
home, and called to Dorcas for a big log for the
fire. Long and deeply did he meditate, with eyes
fixed on the crackling blaze, and hands softly
rubbed in the delicious warmth. A great thing
had befallen Thorpe. He  who never doubted
his ability to rule the world in the best possible
way, if people would only listen to him and to
common sense  was not absolutely certain that
he had improved matters by meddling with Ernest

and Lizzie. And as he still thought that commonsense
was on his side, he sat wondering whether,
by any possibility, there could be something in
life not to be ruled by common sense, as he understood
it.

Two years and a half of the life, to which Lizzie
looked forward so despairingly, had passed away,
and Lesborough lay broiling in the August sun.
The Misses Fletcher panted and fanned themselves,
opened windows which had long been closed, and
would almost have proposed to sit in the garden,
had it not been as parched and shadeless as the
desert. The poplar beyond the wall quivered in
the haze of heat. To Lizzie, toiling wearily
through the dust, the hot sunshine seemed very
pitiless ; and she wanted pity, for things were not
going well with her. The little Crofts were
supposed to have grown beyond her teaching, and
had been sent to a boarding-school ; and though
the grocer's wife loudly proclaimed that she could

speak very 'iglily of Miss Grey, the recommendation
was of little service. Lizzie gave a few
lessons here and there, and imparted a smattering
of French to the baker's daughter ; but that was
all she did, for it really seemed as if no one in
Lesborough had any little children needing a daily
governess, except Mrs. Bradley, of Park Villa.
She had three charming little girls, and, only a
few weeks earlier she had asked  almost entreated
Miss Grey to take charge of them, offering a
singularly liberal salary. But Lizzie, for no
apparent reason, had declined the situation 
civilly, but rather coldly. It was incomprehensible,
but it was not so easy to understand
Lizzie in these later days. She was altered in
face and manner ; her great gray eyes looked even
larger than of old, and seemed to have grown
darker since the happy light had died out of them.
Some people said she had gone off very much, and
looked old for her age; but others thought her
handsomer than ever, as she went by with a look
on her face that was at once haughty and patient.

The years that had passed had been even drearier
than she had feared, but her resolution was unchanged.
She had a curious liking for the old
redbrick bridge. Now that she had so much
leisure she would often walk that way, and if she
found herself alone there, she would lay her hand
almost caressingly on the low wall.

Theophilus Fletcher had prospered greatly
during these two years. The Lesborough foundry
was far more important than his predecessor ever
dreamed of making it. Trade received a new
impulse from the throng of grimy workmen, who
apparently looked on wages as manna, and thought
it would be impious distrust to save a farthing.
Fletcher's patent harrows and thrashing-machines
were widely advertised; and as the big man
shouldered his way through the crowd on market
days, people made room for him with ever-increasing
respect. He interested himself in local
reforms, he gave liberally to local charities, and
the grounds of his handsome house were always
open for flower-shows or school treats. The Rector

found him a valuable ally, and he gradually began
to make his way into the most exclusive circle of
Lesborough society. Mr. Staunton, the Member,
whose estates were encumbered, whose family was
large, and whose manners were consequently
bland, saw that Fletcher might be a power in the
coming election, and paid court to him accordingly.
Mrs. Staunton was lavish of her smiles; Miss
Staunton was very gracious. She had taken rank
as the beauty of the family ten or twelve years
earlier, and had been so hard to please that at
twenty-nine she found herself still Miss Staunton
of Lesborough Park, with five half-sisters, who
had passed from the nursery to the schoolroom,
threatening a speedy termination to her reign.
She tried her well-worn fascinations on the commercial
millionaire, partly from habit, but with a
hesitating idea that something might come of it.
She shrank from the possibility, and yet it fascinated
her with its mixture of splendour and degradation.
Theophilus never suspected this, but
he met her half-way. It was not his nature to be

reserved or frigid with a pretty girl who amused
him, and who, in his opinion, was very well able
to take care of herself. He was flattered by the
Stations' civility, and so heart-whole that he
could enjoy Elinor's little attentions. He meant
nothing at all, and she was not sure that she
meant anything, but nevertheless the Lesborough
gossips began to talk.

Lizzie Grey heard the reports as she went on
her way, but she took no apparent heed of them.
What was Mr. Fletcher to her ? It was true that
she saw him occasionally at his sisters' house.
She went there as of old, and heard the Misses
Fletcher boast about Ernest, who was at Oxford,
they said, and intimate with the nobility. She
used to listen with a faint smile. He had taken
his uncle's name on succeeding to the property,
and was Ernest Vaughan now. This small fact
seemed to part the present time from the bygone
days when Ernest Fletcher loved her. The little
parlour seemed shadowy and strange, even when
Theophilus came in, with jovial laugh and keen

blue eyes, straight from the open air of his busy
everyday world. He was good-humoured and
cordial, though he did not say much to her, and
never alluded to their useless compact. But one
night Lizzie was weary and depressed. She
listened helplessly to Selina and Caroline as they
retailed the latest scandal, but through it all she
was conscious that her life had come to a dreary
pause, and that hope, energy, and courage had all
ebbed together. Suddenly there was a loud knock
at the door ; Selina stopped short in the middle
of a spiteful comment, and Mr. Fletcher came
in.

"At tea?" he said, as he threw himself into
the easy-chair. " Well, yes, you may give me a
cup."

Lizzie, who was cutting bread and butter, knew
that he had looked at her when they shook hands,
and she valiantly endeavoured to meet his glance
as gaily as of old. But she was startled when he
turned, fixed his eyes on her face, and remarked
abruptly : " I saw you to-day, Miss Grey."

"Did you?" she said, beginning to cut another
slice. " I didn't see you."

"No, I know you didn't." A guilty colour
mounted to her cheek, but she made no answer.
I saw you on the old red bridge  I say, take
care!"

The warning came too late ; the knife had
slipped and cut her hand. She muffled it quickly
in her handkerchief, and looked up defiantly.
It's nothing !" she said, angry with herself for
the mischance.

But the cut, thought not serious, was deep,
and the blood was flowing. Miss Selina ran aimlessly
about, proposing sugar, cold water, rag, lily
leaves. "No, no!" Miss Caroline exclaimed, "a
door-key down her back ! I know that's the best
thing. I've always heard that a door-key  or is
that when your nose bleeds ? "

"Rubbish!" said Thorpe, "a bit of plaster!"
And before Lizzie knew what he was doing he
had thrust his sisters aside, had taken possession
of her wounded hand, and was unfolding the

lizzie's bargain 191

handkerchief. A glance sent Selina and Caroline
flying in different directions for plaster, and for a
moment the two were left alone, and face to face.
No word was said, but Lizzie was strangely conscious
of the firm pressure of his fingers, and was
conscious of nothing else. How long was it before
the sisters rushed in with their respective plaster-cases
?

"I can manage it now, thank you!" she said
hastily.

So you think," he replied. " I suppose you
thought you could cut bread and butter. I'll do
both for you to-night."

As Lizzie sat in enforced idleness, and drank
the tea which he brought, it seemed to her as if a
measure of new strength and defiant courage had
come back to her. She laughed and talked more
like her old self, though she would not encounter
those watchful eyes. The hands of the little
clock on the chimney-piece went hurrying round,
till Mr. Fletcher glanced at it, started, compared
it with his great gold watch, and said he must go.

Lizzie perceived that it was the time at which she
usually left, but she felt that it would be like
asking for his escort if she announced her departure
when he had just spoken ; so she waited, wondering
why on earth he waited. At last, after leaning
back some time in frowning silence, he stretched
himself, said, "Well, I suppose I must be off,"
and did not stir. Lizzie, determined to outstay
him, talked on, till Miss Caroline yawned openly,
and so compelled her to give way. But when she
would have said " Good-night " to Mr. Fletcher,
he stood up. " Why, I'm going too," he said, " I'll
see you home." She tried to refuse, but Selina
hurried her off that she might not keep him
waiting. Gentlemen didn't like to be kept waiting,
she explained to Lizzie as they went upstairs.
Lizzie was soon ready, and a minute later she
found herself in the moonlit street with Thorpe.

The pair went a few steps in silence, till a
sudden impulse made the girl look up. The light
fell on her companion's face, and showed her that
he was looking at her, from under his heavy

brows, with a direct intensity which sent a shock

through her from head to foot.
Take my arm," he said.
She shook her head, and walked more quickly.
Miss Grey, what is amiss ? Are you well ?"
She was astonished. " Yes, I'm very well."
"You mean it ? You are not ill, really?"
Of course I mean it ! Thank you for your

kind inquiries, Mr. Fletcher, but I am perfectly

well."

Then something else is the matter ; you are

unhappy." She took no notice, and after a moment

he went on, in low tones which were even more

imperious for their self-restraint : " Answer me,

Miss Grey ; are you unhappy ? "

They had reached her door as he spoke. She

was silent still, but not with the silence which

would have been an admission of unhappiness.

She gathered all her strength, and met his eyes

with a look of inquiry and defiance.

No answer ?" he said. " Xo concern of mine,

of course. Oh, you are quite right. Miss Grey 

VOL II. o

and doubtless rejoiced at the success of his
scheme.

It so happened that Lizzie saw no more of him
till the beginning of August, when a bazaar was
held for the Lesborough Church Schools. She
had a glimpse of him then, as she passed the Town
Hall late in the afternoon. The Stauntonss'
carriage waited outside, and, as she walked, she
looked at the beautiful, impatient, chestnut horses,
sleek and shining in the sun, and listened to the
music of the military band within. Xot till her
shabby gown almost brushed the splendour of silk
did she perceive the great Mrs. Staunton, with
her electioneering smile, escorted by Theophilus
in all his glory. Her primrose fingers rested on
his sleeve, and his face was radiant. Lizzie
remembers him to this day, as he stood on the
lowest step, the thick gold chain, which Ernest
hated, glistening in the hot sunshine, the pale
gray gloves, the crimson rosebud in his coat.
Had she not been taken by surprise she would
have turned away, but he had seen her, their eyes

had met, and instead of the good-humoured nod,
which he often bestowed upon her, he lifted his
hat with a ceremonious yet eager politeness which
challenged Mrs. Staunton's attention. She looked
after Lizzie with lofty wonder, and a faint involuntary
admiration, lost the thread of what she was
saying, bade Mr. Fletcher farewell a little absently,
and drove off, sighing at the idea that a wealthy
man should have such threadbare acquaintances.

Mrs. Staunton rather liked him than otherwise
in fact, she liked him well enough to say
Eeally ! I'm very sorry," when a few days latera
rumour ran through the town that he was mixed
up in some foreign speculation and had lost money.
People hardly knew what to think, but looked
doubtfully at one another. It was so unlikely that
they could not believe any one could have
invented it. And when Mrs. Staunton expressed
her languid sympathy, her husband merely replied,
I should say it wasn't true ; but if it is, the man
must be a fool. Literally coining money at that
place of his, I'm told."

Well, I daresay we shall hear more soon," she
said. "Didn't you say we must give another
dinner?" and she passed easily to the more
interesting topic.

Lizzie Grey heard nothing of the report. Perhaps
she was hardly in the mood to listen to
Lesborough talk just then, for her prospects were
darkening from day to day. The baker's daughter,
having discovered that she knew French enough
to give her a fine sense of superiority to her friends,
had discontinued her lessons, and her teacher was
left more hopeless than before. While Mrs.
Staunton was arching her brows over the tidings
of Thorpe Fletcher's losses, Lizzie sat by her
mother's bedside, trying to impart a courage she
could not feel. "I shall die in the workhouse,"
moaned Mrs. Grey.

"ISTo, no!" said Lizzie. "It cannot come to
that." But she trembled as she said it, and lay
awake half the night, tormented with visions of
sombre possibilities. It was in no sanguine frame
of mind that she prepared to go out the next

morning. She was just starting when the little
girl, who waited on the invalid during her absence,
came to her with a breathless message, "Please,
Miss, Missis wants to speak to you. And, please,
Miss, will you come at once, Missis says."

Why, what on earth " Lizzie began, as she

dashed past the child into her mother's room.
"What is the matter, mamma ?"

Mrs. Grey was sitting up in bed, with shining
eyes, and a faint tinge of colour in her cheeks.
"I was prapng to God last night, and He has
heard me. Lizzie, look!" And she held out a
blue envelope, at the sight of which Lizzie stood
rooted to the ground.

A man left it at the door, Sarah says ; a
young man she does not know. Who could it be ?
Oh, Lizzie, do you see what it is ?"

"Yes," said the girl slowly. "But we can't
keep it, mamma."

Xot keep it ? It is meant for us  look at
the envelope  it is directed to me ! " ]airs. Grey's
words came in startled gasps.

VI

I know it is sent to you," said Lizzie. " But
you must let me take it back."

Back !  who sent it then ?"

"Mr. Fletcher." The name came out with a
painful effort. " He has sent me money before 
more than once  and I have sent it back."

Mrs. Grey stared blankly. "What, Ernest
Fletcher  no, he's Vaughan now, isn't he? Do
you mean him ? "

No. Mr. Theophilus Fletcher at the foundry.
Miss Fletcher's half-brother."

Why does he send it ? I suppose he wants
to make you some return for your attentions
to his sisters. Oh, Lizzie, we can't send it
back!"

"Listen, mamma!" cried Lizzie in despair.
Two years ago I happened to serve Mr. Fletcher
you must not ask me how, because it is not my
secret only  at least he will have it that I served
him, and ever since then he has been trying to
pay me in some way. And because I would not
have his money he has sent it to you. He is good,

he means it kindly, but I can't take his money.
Don't ask me why, mamma, but let me give it
back  I can't take it !"

But it is mine !" cried the poor weak woman.
He sent it to me !" And a dangerous look came
into her eyes, as if she would do battle for her
treasure with her shaking hands. Lizzie drew
back a step and looked sadly at her.

"It is mine!" Mrs. Grey repeated, in her thin
voice. " I shall keep it for your sake. You shall
not have to work yourself to death for me."

Then, mother, you will not keep me. I cannot
share it. I have no claim on hun. He thinks
I lost something through him, but I know it wasn't
so. T can be paid for that day," she added, half
to herself. " Oh, mamma, we have never had a
quarrel before !"

But Mrs. Grey was not easily conquered. The
poor woman clung to her prize as if she were
in the agony of drowning, and this a saving rope.
"Mammal" cried Lizzie, with streaming eyes, "I
can work ! I vill work ! You shall not want ! It

'' I know it is sent to yon," said Lizzie. " Bnt
yon inst let me take it back."

Back ! who sent it then ?"

"Mr. Fletcher." The name came ont with a
painful effort. " He has sent me money before 
more than once  and I have sent it back."

Mrs. Grey stared blankly. "What, Ernest
Fletcher  no, he's Vaughan now, isn't he? Do
you mean him ? "

No. Mr. Theophilus Fletcher at the foundry.
Miss Fletcher's half-brother."

Why does he send it ? I suppose he wants
to make you some return for your attentions
to his sisters. Oh, Lizzie, we can't send it
back !"

"Listen, mamma!" cried Lizzie in despair.
Two years ago I happened to serve Mr. Fletcher
you must not ask me how, because it is not my
secret only  at least he will have it that I served
him, and ever since then he has been trying to
pay me in some way. And because I would not
have his money he has sent it to you. He is good,

he means it kindly, but I can't take his money.
Don't ask me why, mamma, but let me give it
back  I can't take it !"

"But it is mine !" cried the poor weak woman.
He sent it to me !" And a dangerous look came
into her eyes, as if she would do battle for her
treasure with her shaking hands. Lizzie drew
back a step and looked sadly at her.

It is mine ! " Mrs. Grey repeated, in her thin
voice. " I shall keep it for your sake. You shall
not Ive to work yourself to death for me."

Then, mother, you will not keep me. I cannot
share it. I have no claim on him. He thinks
I lost something through him, but I know it wasn't
so. I can't be paid for that day," she added, half
to herself. " Oh, mamma, we have never had a
quarrel before!"

But Mrs. Grey was not easily conquered. The
poor woman clung to her prize as if she were
in the agony of drowning, and this a saving rope.
"Mamma!" cried Lizzie, with streaming eyes, "I
can work ! I will work ! You shall not want ! It

would kill me if I had to live on Mr. Fletcher's
charity !"

It was a hard struggle. On Mrs. Grey's side
were feeble arguments, and strong entreaties and
tears, and in answer the patient voice pleading,
I can't take it. He owes me nothing at all."
At last it was over, and Lizzie came out. She had
the blue envelope in her hand ; she was going to
return it that afternoon, and her mother had kissed
her as she stooped to say " Good-bye."

"Was I cruel?" she said to herself, when she
was once more in her own room. She went to the
window. The poplar was trembling in the summer
breeze, and below lay the strip of garden down
which Ernest used to come in the days which
seemed so long ago. " I hope I wasn't cruel," she
thought, leaning out to cool her aching eyes. " I
have done nothing for him. He thinks it was a
sacrifice, and I thought so too once. But I can't
make money out of that ; it would be a lie, and I
should die of shame !"

The foundry stood a little way out of Lesborough,
and the way to it led through the ugliest and most
uninteresting part of the neighbourhood. Mr.
Fletcher said it was a good level road, and he
couldn't see anything amiss with it. Still, let him
say what he would, it was not beautiful that
August afternoon. On both sides, parted from it
by low banks and closely-cut hedges, lay meadows,
marshy and wide, coarsely overgrown with
yellowish-green grass, and dotted here and therewith
patches of rank weeds, and tail flower-stalks
whose blossom was gone. Trees there were none,
except a straggling line of alders and willows which
marked the river's languid course. No road is
pleasant when one travels on a disagreeable errand ;

but Lizzie found an especial dreariness in this one,
as she turned into it, and saw it visible in its flat
monotony almost to the foundry-gate. She felt
that she could not risk a repetition of that morning's
conflict, nor the chance that another gift
might arrive, and be accepted without her
knowledge. She must refuse Mr. Fletcher's
money in terms about which there could be no
mistake. She could not wait for a chance meeting,
since it might not occur for weeks, and he would
think all the while that she had taken his bounty-there
was no help for it ; she must go to his
office and find him there. And the road was so cruel,
it kept the end of her journey continually before
her. Every step brought her visibly nearer to that
dreaded interview the mere thought of which made
her heart die within her, yet the way was so wearily
long. She walked as fast as she could, conning
over the words she meant to say, with an uneasy
certainty that Mr. Fletcher's eyes would frighten
every syllable out of her head. If ever she feared
hmi in old days, she feared him ten times more now.

At last she reached her destination. She
wondered at her own calmness as she passed
through the gate : and, following the guidance of
a painted hand, walked straight into the office.
Is Mr. Fletcher here ? " she asked a clerk.
"Will you tell him that I particularly want to
speak to him ? I will not keep him long." It
seemed to her as if, in uttering the words, she had
contrived for a moment to outstrip her own
nervousness, and it overtook her exactly as she
ceased to speak. She felt the hot colour in her
cheeks, and the eager beating of her heart made
it hard to catch the man's reply. But she knew
that she gave her name, and that a white-faced
lad, whom they called Bates, went upstairs to ask
if Mr. Fletcher were disengaged. The civil clerk
gave her a chair, and she sat, looking through the
open window into the busy, grimy yard. A man,
who seemed to be a farmer, came in, and looked
curiously at her as he went by. He leaned on
the desk and spoke, and the clerk glanced at her
over the newcomer's shoulder, and smiled as he

answered. Why had she ever come ? She would
have run away, but she had a wild idea that the
clerks and the farmer would think her mad and
follow her, shouting, till Bates, and Thorpe
Fletcher himself, would come thundering down
the uncarpeted stairs to join in the pursuit.
She waited in an agony of suspense till Bates returned,
and asked her to step upstairs. She
followed him with desperate courage. He ushered
her into Mr. Fletcher's room in silence and closed
the door after her.

It was a small room, bright and sunshiny.
Thorpe had been building extensively at the
foundry, and his office, which was only temporary,
gave a general impression of new boards. Lizzie
advanced a step towards the table, which was
covered with papers, and then saw him standing
at the window. He turned and came towards
her, with a doubtfully inquiring look. " Soothing
the matter, I hope, Miss Grey ? Pray sit down."

There is nothing the matter, only I wanted
to speak to you. I won't keep you a minute."

You are always welcome to as much of my
time as can be of any service to you," said
Fletcher, apparently reassured, and anxious to reassure
her. He resumed his former position by
the window, a position in which the light did not
fall on his face, but whence he could look sideways
at the Lesborough road.

Lizzie pulled out the envelope. " Mr. Fletcher,
you sent that."

He glanced at it, and nodded in the most
matter-of-fact way possible, but his eyes went
quickly back to the ribbon of dusty white which
lay across the level fields.

I have brought it back," she said, puzzled at
his manner. " Pray don't send any more."

"You don't want it?" He tapped the pane
with restless fingers.

No."

You have found a situation which suits you,
perhaps ?" he event on, this time looking straight
out of the window and fairly turning his back
upon her.

Lizzie, perplexed and nervous, had half forgotten
what she meant to say. His question put
the clue into her hands once more.

No, I haven't. I did hear of one, and when
I went to ask about it, I found it was only another
way of living on your alms."

The idiotic woman ! She overdue it, I suppose,"
growled Thorpe, manifestly disconcerted,
but without the faintest attempt at disguise.

I am sure she tried to keep your secret, Mr.
Fletcher. But you have taught me to suspect
any good fortune, I think."

His answer was an inarticulate grunt. He still
kept his back to her. It was very disagreeable
to have to address her remarks to his shoulders
and what she could see of the back of his head,
which he held down doggedly. The one idea
conveyed by the outline of those shoulders was
that of inert and ponderous obstinacy. But she
continued, passionately determined to pierce this
armour in some way or other :

Mr. Fletcher, I am tired of this. Ashen will

you leave off persecuting me ? You sent me
money, I returned it to you. You persisted again
and again. Then you leagued yourself with that
woman to cheat me into taking your charity." (At
this point the big shoulders became a little more
expressive, for they were shrugged.) " What have
I done that I should be paid for it, with a banknote
thrown to me every now and then? And
what business have you to pay me ? I have done
nothing for you. What I did, I did because I
thought it was right. I am quite content, and
you have nothing to do with it. Still you might
have gone on, and it would not have mattered.
/ could have gone on returning your presents.
But why did you send this to my mother?"

She did not pause to hear some muttered
words which sounded remarkably like, " Thought
she might have more sense than you had."

You would have enlisted my own mother on
your side against me ! " said Lizzie, in accents of
bitter reproach ; " when we never had a real
difference in our lives."

VOL. II. p

Oh ! " said Thorpe, " then she had more
sense ? "

"Yes, if you choose to call it so. Yes; she
wanted to take your charity for my sake. But I
told her that she must choose between it and me,
that I wouldn't touch the bread she bought with
it, nor live in the house that was maintained with
your gifts. I told her that I had no claim on you,
that I had done nothing for you, given up nothing
for you, and that I would never be a pensioner of
yours."

So the old lady sent it back ? " Thorpe questioned,
in a curiously gentle voice.

"Yes; here it is," said Lizzie. Having expected
either persuasion or rough words, she did
not know what to make of this calmness. His
face was still obstinately turned to the window.

Put it on the table, anywhere, it doesn't
matter. I shan't offend in that way again."

Thank you," said Lizzie.

Probably not in any way."

Lizzie laid the guilty blue envelope on the

table, and hesitated. He had spoken the last
words with a certain bitterness of emphasis ; what
did he mean? She had wished to make him
understand her inflexible determination, but she
did not want to part in anger. She would have
held out her hand to him and gone her way, but
for an absurd little difficulty. "What was the
good of holding out her hand to that broad graduated
back? And speech had become difficult
again. Now that she had ended the sort of
understanding which had existed between them,
and, no doubt, offended him for ever, she hardly
understood her own confused and warring feelings.
Only she was conscious of a lurking something,
which she would die rather than reveal,
and which a word might betray. Better shake
hands and go. But he still stood at the window,
with his back towards her and his head bowed
down. She had hesitated only for a couple of
minutes, but all at once she started, feeling as if
she had been waiting for ages in the silent sunshiny
room. As if she had known the little office

in some previous existence, and had stood there,
precisely the same, on some occasion, say a
million years before. As if everything else were
a dream, or as if that were a dream, she hardly
knew which. As if  but Thorpe Fletcher drove
all the rest out of her head by turning round
and facing her.

What are you stopping for ? " he demanded,
in his roughest tone. "You want nothing from
me, you would die sooner than let me serve you
in any way ; you hate me  you say so."

She attempted a denial, and held out her hand,
but he ignored it.

"Xo; as you have stayed you shall listen
to me for a moment, since I've had to listen to
you."

Mi Fletcher, are you ill ? Is anything the
matter ? " she exclaimed. As soon as she saw him
in the full sunlight, she perceived that he was
haggard and anxious. She started as she met his
eyes. Though keen and clear, they were small,
and overshadowed by his heavy brows, but that

day there was a fierce spark of fire burning in their
grayish blue.

111 ? " he repeated. Lizzie Grey could not
know it, but the Thorpe of twenty years earlier
had come to the surface again, and confronted her
that day. "Am I ill? Is anything wrong?
What the devil is it to you, Miss Grey, whether
there is or not? It's good manners to ask, I
suppose ; but you know well enough you don't
care. However, you shall hear, since you have
asked." He took a turn or two up and down the
little room, with the old effect that there seemed
to be no place for any one else in it. Lizzie drew
back a step to let him pass. He halted instantly.
Why don't you sit down ? What's the good of
tiring yourself after your walk ? "

Thank you, I'd rather stand," said Lizzie.

Stand, then 1" was the rough rejoinder. "Look
here. Miss Grey ; I'd give my right hand to have
been miles away two years ago, instead of coming
here to meddle with your affairs. I can't see now
what I did wrong ; it seems to me that no one

with any sense could have clone otherwise. But
everything went crooked; I'd better have let it
alone altogether."

Oh, don't let us have all the old story over
again ! " said Lizzie. " Mr. Fletcher, I don't blame
you, I never blamed you ; pray don't say any more
about it."

Thorpe turned upon her : " But I choose to say
something about it. It's the last time  can't you
have a little patience ? Whether I did right or
wrong, I ruined your prospects ; you can't deny
that. I ruined you  you, of all people in the
world ! I'm not going to talk about love at first
sight, or any of the stuff they put in poetry. When
I came to Lesborough I hadn't thought of marrying,
at least not for a good while; I had other
things to see after. But I soon began to think of
it  I believe it was partly because I was sorry for
what I'd done, and I wanted to do what I could to
make it up to you." Lizzie looked blankly at
him, struck dumb by this singular frankness.
But you were so brave," he went on, " and behaved

so uncommonly well, that I saw the luck
would be on my side instead of yours. Only,
when I'd made up my mind that you were the one
girl in all the world for me, and that if I couldn't
have you I'd have no one, I couldn't tell you so.
I kept thinking, suppose Ernest should come back,
I should never forgive myself if I'd ruined it all
again. (There, don't say anything, let me finish.
Didn't I tell you it was the last time ?) Not that
I thought you would be happy with him ; I never
did. But you had a right to choose for yourself.
So I waited, and worked, and said to myself that
you should be richer as my wife than if you had
married Ernest with his estate. Only, as I knew
things were not going very well with you, I tried to
help you, just to keep your head above water till we
should see what the boy would do. You wouldn't
let me. I tried again, and I found out how it was :
you hadn't forgiven my blundering, you weren't
generous enough to let me do anything for you.
Then I did try to help you without your knowing,
but it seems you were too sharp for me  "

Mr. Fletcher !" cried Lizzie.

Can you have patience for five minutes ? "
he demanded. " I suppose you think I'm a rich
man? I don't know whether I am, or whether
I'm ruined. I've done well enough here, but it
was too slow for me ; so I risked it for you. I
meant to come straight to you if all went well 
of course it would have been no good."

You have failed, then ? " said Lizzie, advancing
a step, with a new light in her eyes.

You needn't be in such a hurry," he replied.
I tell you I don't know. But I heard something
yesterday  what does it matter to you ? Only if
it's true there'll be a smash here  this place shut
up, and all my men out of work. My God ! what
a fool I've been ! " he said, with a quick little
gasp. "Ah, well! you'll read it all in the next
Lesborough paper, I daresay. Young Marshall
promised me a telegram." He glanced at the
road as he spoke. "But what do you care?
Only you see how well you chose your time to
reproach me and fling my money in my face. I

want you to see that. Ernest will never come
back now  never. And if I'm beggared, it would
have been a pity for me to think that I had helped
you a little till I could make a fresh start 
wouldn't it ? No ! I'd better begin the world
again at forty, knowing that I've lost all for
nothing ; that I've ruined you and myself too ;
that you hate me, that you would rather starve 
and it will come to that, I daresay  than touch a
coin of mine, rather oo to the workhouse than let
me help you. Very well, be it so." He turned
to the window again. "I'm sick of it all!" he
said in a low voice ; " I can do no more  I give
up."

Quick as thought Lizzie sprang to the table
and caught up the blue envelope. " Mr. Fletcher !
I've taken it ! "

He looked round. " Taken what ?"
"This!" and holding it up, she went on in a
voice which wavered wildly between laughing and
crying : " Good-bye, Mr. Fletcher, and thank you !
I'm going to spend it  may I ?"

"Wliat do you mean?" said Thorpe. "Take
it  only  are you in earnest ? Do you see that
it isn't quite the same ? No, no ! don't say anything
! Take it, in God's name ! without conditions.
When the news comes "

She pointed to the window : " Is that your
messenger ? " she said, growing suddenly calm.

Yes !" said Fletcher. " Three minutes, and I
shall know. If I escape this time, I'U run no
more risks ; and you'll let me come and say what
I can for myself, won't you ?"

"No !" and Lizzie looked straight into his eyes.
If you do come I shall refuse to see you."

His face fell. " You will not see me ? " he
stammered, in utter bewilderment.

No ! If you want to say anything to me, you
may say it here, and now."

"Now?"

Before that message comes ; after that you
needn't trouble yourself. I mean what I say."

But, noir .? " said Thorpe. " I tell you I maybe
a beggar."

"A good thing too!" she exclaimed. "You
think of nothing but money. You are always
harping on the money I should have had if I'd
married Ernest; then you begin hoarding yours
for me  I hate it ! and now you insult me, yes,
insult me ! by promising to come  if all goes
well ! I suppose I'm a toy you will like to buy
if you are rich? and if you are poor, perhaps
some one else "

There was a noise as of an arrival below.

Lizzie, don't tempt me. Suppose the worst 
I'm not so young as I was, I'm twice your age,
child ; there's not much chance for me  I should
do you a cruel wrong."

I don't tempt you. Here comes your message.
I mean what I say  but you know that of old."

She drew back a little and watched him ; her
face was grave, defiant, intent. Theophilus turned
on his heel, and took a step or two irresolutely.
Bates appeared, laid a telegram on the table, and
vanished discreetly.

Fletcher came forward, but Lizzie's hand was

on it. She looked up at him, he was white to his
lips. "Will you have it ?" she said.

How much more harm am I to do ?" he asked.
If you would only let me help you ! " Their
eyes met : " Lizzie, I'm a selfish brute, but will
you share it, good or bad?"

Ten minutes later she was saying, a little
regretfully, "I almost wish you had been poor
for a few years at first."

"Thanks!" he said, passing his hand over his
forehead, and looking down at her with a smile.
Only by the sense of present relief could he realise
what his fear had been. " A few years ! You
can afford to talk like that. How old are you ?
Twenty? Twenty-one?"

Twenty-two  at least I soon shall be."

Thorpe smiled. " Well, I didn't mind talking
in that style when I was one and twenty; but,
now that more than half my life is gone, I'm
willing enough to work, but not to fight my way
through the crowd to get my foot on the lowest
round of the ladder again. I like to look forward

to the end ; I like to feel that I needn't pinch and
save. I like good wine and good dinners ; I
didn't care what I had at one and twenty."

I didn't want you to be poor for very long,"
said Lizzie ; "just a little while. You might have
had plenty of good dinners "  this very scornfully
" afterwards."

"You're very kind, but as I can't dine more
than once a day I don't see how I could make up
for lost time. No, no, Lizzie ! you must take meas
I am. I daresay it might be very nice to live
in a cottage with you to cook for me, but I shan't
be easy till things are made safe, and I know that
there isn't a chance of this bargain of ours turning
out as badly for you as the one we made two years
and a half ago."

But Lizzie Grey did not seem to think that
bargain had turned out badly for her. Something
was lost with that first dream, no doubt, something
of springtime had vanished, but there was
no shadow of regret in her happy eyes that
day.

It was easy to tell the great news to Mrs. Grey,
but Thorpe and Lizzie went together, a day or two
later, to communicate it to Selina and Caroline.
Thorpe tried to make a neat little speech, and
to present Lizzie as a new  hut he broke down
when he realised that the sentence ought to end
with " sister." It was too absurd, so he coughed,
and finished rather lamely  " a new relation, you
know." The Misses Fletcher were astounded and
displeased, and said they were delighted, and had
foreseen it from the first. They fondled Lizzie,
and kissed her tenderly, while Thorpe sat on the
sill of the open window, and looked on with twinkling
eyes. He did not like it so well when his own
turn came.

Come into the garden for five minutes, Lizzie,"
he said a little later. But his sisters detained her,
to ask if she wouldn't put something more on, and
to hang about her, as if she were going on an
expedition of some difficulty and possible danger,
and they could hardly bear to risk their treasure.
At last she escaped, and ran out, to find Thorpe

leaning against the door which led into the garden,
and talking to Dorcas.

Ah, here you are !" lie said. They went down
the path together, and paused when they came to
the little space at the end. Lizzie pointed upwards.
" That is my window."

Ah ! " said Thorpe. " I see. Very handy."

He leaned against the wall, and looked up at
the little window with its glittering panes. The
steep red roof which caught the western glow, the
two or three pigeons perched upon its ridge, the
poplar, hardly stirring in the still au', all stood
keenly out against the pale blue sky, and Fletcher
studied them as if he were learning them by heart,
I'm going to ask you a question," he said at last,
and I want you to tell me the truth."

She answered with a happy smile, "Do you
know, Thorpe, I hope it won't be very inconvenient,
but I'm afraid I shall never be able to
tell you anything else. I might, perhaps, if you
would shut your eyes, but not when you look at
me so."

Hm ! I think you managed to keep me in the
dark pretty well," he rejoined. " If I'd known, I
might have come and looked after you a little
sooner."

Instead of my having to come to you ! But
what is your question ? "

Isn't this where Ernest used to come ?"

She nodded, growing suddenly grave.

I know you care for me now," said Thorpe ;
I shan't ask you that. But suppose I had never
come to Lesborough at all, never interfered with
you and Ernest, you might have been very happy."

Perhaps," looking at the ground as she spoke.

Thorpe laid his great hand on her shoulder.
If everything had gone well, don't you think in
your heart that that would have been best of all ?
Your first love, nearer your own age, and I know
how you cared for him. Tell me, child," this very
gently  " I can't be happy unless I can get to the
bottom of things  tell me the truth, don't you
think that might have been the best ? You
needn't be afraid. Don't think I shall be angry.

I shall only want to do more to make you some
amends for what I can't give you now."

"Then," said Lizzie, still without looking up,
I'm afraid you won't take so much trouble about
me, for oh, Thorpe, I am very glad you came ! "

THE END

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh.

MITCHELHURST PLACE:

A NOVEL.

The Times says : " ' Mitchell-burst Place ' is interesting quite as much for what
it discloses of the poetic fancy of the authoress astor its study of character. Embedded
in these pages are scraps of verse which show considerable talent ; and even
the contemplation of the moon struggling in a stormy sky is not too hackneyed a
theme to evoke an imaginary flight, free from either bombast or pathos."

The .Sjiectoor says :  "A really good novel. . . . Now it is obvious, we think,
that the literary skill evinced in the above extracts would suffice for the production
of a very good novel indeed, provided that their writer had a good story to tell and
could tell that story well. Miss Veley and here we may notice a marked improvement
on her ' For Percival 'sis very strong on both points. ' Mitchelhurst
Place' is a story which rivets the attention from the first page to the last, and the
writer's management of her plot is perfect."

The Saturday Review says : "Miss Veley writes in excellent English and with
abundant cleverness and insight of one of Nature's step-children, of a man marked
down for misfortune to the extent of being himself his curse and his executioner."

The Guardian says : " An exceeding good novel."

A NEW NOVEL.

NE/ERA: a Tale of Ancient Rome.

By JOHN W. GRAHAM.

2 Vols. 8vo. 24s.

** Though the scene is laid in Ancient Rome, and the surroundings
are correctly given, it must not he supposed that this story, the first effort
of a nev writer, is of merely antiquarian interest. The opinions quoted
below sufficiently shoiu that the hook appeals to all readers echo care fora
well-told tale, full of thrilling incident and striking situations, skilfully
worked, out to a satisfactory denouement.

In a letter to a friend, published in the Atheniviim on December 4, Mr. Gladstone
says :  "Having finished 'Nesera,' I cannot refrain from saying that it seems
to me a really remarkable book, with great uprightness of aim, signal power of
drawing characterised a great faculty of Writing. . . . Several of the scenes are in
my judgment of singular power. The writer is unknown to me, but he ought to
make his mark."

The Edinburgh Review says : "It is given to us as a picture of Roman life,
under an Emperor as infamous as the Antoninus were honourable ; and the picture
is, we think, carefully drawn, and in its general features trustworthy. . . . Mr.
Gi-adam has at the least given us a story of sustained interest, which lie has done
well in connecting with the little island rock of Capri. On this island Tiberius has
left a lasting mark, and the remains of his work bear out the old stories told about
him. . . . We may take leave of Mr. Graham's interesting and powerful tale with a
few words in which he speaks of the palaces and prisons which rose here at the
despot's command."

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.

Ninth THOUSAND.

A NEW STORY BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN Inelegant."

SIR PERCIVAL:

A Story of the Past and of the Present.

By J. HENRY Storehouse.

Crown 8vo. 6s.

BY THE SAME AUTHOR-john

Inelegant ; a Romance. I The Little Schoolmaster Mark.

Crown 8vo. 6s. | Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d,

A NEW Novel BY MR. HENRY JAMES.

THE PRINCESS CASAMASSIMA.

By HENRY JAMES,
Author of "The American," &c. 3 vols., crovm Svo. 31s. 6d.

Blackwood' s Magazine says : 
In the present work Mr. James forsakes entirely his usual levels. . . . He has
stepped aside into a very different field. London, but not the London he has
hitherto known . is the strange and novel scene which he has undertaken to
unfold before us ; London of the outlying-wastes, far from fame, purlieus of
Islington and Haddington and Camberwell  widely spread in point of distance, but
equally mean and grimy and poverty stricken. . . . This book is Mr. James's first
illustration of purely English life. It is remarkable both in its perceptions and its
mistakes  a most careful elaborate panorama, full of the finest observation."

Now ready, Iso., 2s. each Volume, a POCKET EDITION of
MR. HENRY JAMES'S NOYELS AND TALES.
Washington Square. 1 vol.
The Europeans. 1 vol.
Confidence. 1 vol.

An International Episode ; The
Pension Beaurepas ; The Point of
View. 1 vol.

Daisy Miller ; Four Meetings ;
Longstaff's Marriage ; Benvolio.
1 vol.

The Madonna of the Future ; A
Bundle of Letters ; The Diary of a
Man of Fifty ; Eugene Pickering,
de Mauves. 1 ol. ' 1 vol.

The Portrait of a Lady. 3 vols
Frederick Hudson. 2 vols.
The American. 2 vols.
The Siege of London ; Madame

MR. F. MARION CRAWFORD'S NOYELS.
In crown Svo. 6s. each.
Zoroaster'' ' i A Tale of a Lonely Parish.

In crown Svo. 4s. 6d. each.

Doctor Claudius. | Mr. Isaacs. | A Roman Singer.

MR. HUGH CONWAY'S NOYELS.

In crown Svo. 6s. each.

A Family Affair. | Living or Dead.

MACMILLAN'S SIX SHILLING POPULAR NOYELS. NEW VOLUMES.

Scenes and Characters ; or, , Nuttie's Father. By Charlotte
Eighteen Months at Beechcroft. By | ]M. Yonge. Illustrated. Crown Svo. 6s.
Charlotte M. Yonge. Illustrated, i Aunt Rachel. By D. CHRISTIE
A New Edition. Crown Svo. Gs. j Murray. Crown Svo. 6s.

My Friend Jim. By W. E. Norris. Crown Svo. 6s.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON.
