CHAPTER I.

so NEAR, AND YET SO FAR.'

George Papers had made the
acquaintance of Aurea Chapel
during holidays spent in his old
home in Devonshire, where his parents still
lived. His own mother and Aurea' s aunt
were neighbours, if such a vulgar term maybe
used to describe the relations of two
aristocratic ladies in the same set in the
county.

At any rate, they lived as near to one
VOL. II. 20

another as the requisite arrangement of
gardens and parks would permit, and both
mother and aunt would willingly have
shaken hands over an alliance which would
have harmonized their dearest prejudices.
But Aurea did not love to be prompted,
and she had chosen Leopold, who was undeniably
fast, and who, worse still, came of
an unknown set of townspeople with a
vulgar name, and a wholesale trade capable
of unkind mention by retail designation.
In consequence, when George arrived at
Glen Combe on the evenings before the
wedding, he found his own mother eloquent
in dispraise of Mr. Stuckley, and in disparagement
of Aurea on the ground of her
misplaced choice.

Very trying indeed to her son were the
pointed remarks which Mrs. Apers felt no
obligation to restrain in his presence, and
before long, this species of moral irritation
growing unbearable, he was driven to take

refuge in the library by the side of his
paralyzed father. Mr. Apers was at least,
if incapable of adding to the pleasure of
others, equally debarred from contributing
to their dissatisfaction ; and George found a
certain quality of rest in the quiet atmosphere
which surrounded the honourable
old man, whose work upon the earth was
done as completely as if he were already
laid beneath it. The darkened room and
the hush of life around the invalid were
particularly welcome to him now, as an
exchange from the flutter of society in the
drawing-room, and as a relief from his
mother's two-edged comments upon the
disadvantages of Aurea's prospects as the
wife of Leopold Stuckley.

The blinds in the long bay-endow were
undrawn, two wax candles stood upon the
writing-table, lighted only for the show of
an illumination, as candles may be lighted
by the side of the dead. Outside, upon the

202

now deserted lawns the soft light of a
summer moon cast waving tree-thrown
shadows. George sank into an easy-chair,
between his father's couch and the window,
with a sigh of relief He had picked up an
evening paper which he still held in his
hand, hut he was not reading; indeed, in the
mixture of moonlight and of candle-lioht

o o

he could not well have read. The invalid
was asleep, or in that unconscious condition
which does duty for sleep in those in whom
mere physical existence has survived intellectual
activity.

Strong impulses, dismissed as soon as
momentarily entertained, prompted George
to go out at any cost and seek Aurea
Chapel. She was close by, only ten or
twelve minutes' walk off at farthest, across
those moon-irradiated "gardens and dimly
lit-up fences. The punishment of his moral
cowardice was strongly upon him now 
now that it was too late, now that if he

took that short grassy foot-way that he
knew of, crossed a country lane that Aurea
and he had often trod together, avoided
the lodge, and appeared with her aunt's
domain, he should find himself a strange
guest and an intruder there  one who must
send in his card, and must have himself
announced, and who even then must confess
with many apologies that his visit was
ill-timed, and his appearance unwarrantable.


To be so near, and yet so far, whilst her
own letter lay in his pocket  that letter in
which she had reminded him of the friendship
that once was between them ! Friendship
indeed and something more, on George
Apers's side at least; and surely on Aurea's
also, or that note had never been smitten.
Perpetually his fingers sought for it : to
him it was the embodiment of his happiest
past ; of all that had given his life its
fullest flavour. At the same time it was

nothing but the flimsy remnant of a hope,
the shrivelled chrysalis-skin whence the
bright winged life had fled to another
abode.

Could George Apers but have seen his
way to marrying Aurea Chapel consistently
with a circumspect regard to social decorum,
instead of leaving her to his unworthy rival,
he would have counted upon the flood of
joy and happiness to follow with all the
rashness characteristic of short-sighted
lovers. That an emotion must be long-lived
because it is lively  that because a thug
is felt stronoiv, therefore it must be felt
enduringly, he would have maintained as
stoutly as any other ; but then he must
have reached Aurea without deviation from
the path of ordinary convention or violation
of any social canon. He cared for Aurea
very much indeed  more than for any other
woman in the world ; but not, it appeared,
more than for himself. The op port unity

hadno: been offered him of saving; her from
probable future misery at the expense > r
his own personal taste, he had let it
slip.

No hope of ever winning her had remained
with him when once her choice had
fallen upon his companion ; nor had her
letter in any sense revived the abandoned
day-dream. He saw clearly enough that
once having taken the hand she held
out to him for deliverance from a mistaken
marriage, he could not convert the grasp of
a saviour into that of a rival. If he rescued
her from Leopold, he must persist in renouncing
her for himself, or the action
would show a detestable colour.

If, in answer to her childish and almost
petulant appeal, he had told her the truth ashe
knew it concerning; the real character
and antecedents of the man she had preferred
to himself, he must after that have
stood aside absolutely. To derive personal

profit from the situation at any da', however
distant, would be to convert an act of
disinterested friendship into a self-seeking
treachery, and would lead to a double affront
of public opinion.

There was, of course, just a chance that,
even without hearing: from George, in a fit
of impatience or of mistrust, Aurea Chapel
might herself have thrown over her lover,
in which case George might conceivably,
without in any way committing himself,
have reaped the benefit of her renewed
freedom ; but this slender chance was not
the consideration which influenced him
when he tore into shreds the letter which
he wrote her under the first impulse of feeling
excited by hers.

In restraining that responsive impulse,
and in abstaining from writings at all when
later on he sat down to consider the matter,
George Apers had been influenced solely by
sensitiveness to the notion of popular

criticism, and by the dread of social condemnation
if he took so unusual a course
as to appear between the girl who had rejected
him and her chosen but unworthy
lover. The man's being was so enwrapt
in the swaddling-bands of conventionality,
that when the poor girl's frightened soul
appealed to his for strength and safety,
he stifled the echo of that cry in his own
heart, set aside the promptings of higher
impulse and of self-denying affection, and
betrayed her trust in him. She had turned
to him, in her childish way, as to the one
being' whose truth and honour miiit save
her from a dreaded fate, and he had stood
aside questioning within himself whether
the action would be unbecoming on the part
of a gentleman, or derogatory to his reputation
as a man of the world. Yet George
Apers was an upright man and a true,
and one perfectly capable of rightly directing'
his course through the world without

referring to Society the slavish question,
Which foot foremost ?' But self-love
cramped him in thought and in action,
converting him from a man into a creature,
the slave of words and of social verdicts ;
and until natures such as his can disencumber
themselves of their present trappings,
salvation there can be from them
for none, neither man, nor woman, nor child,
whose needs cannot be satisfied with a
figure in an account-book, nor with the
recognition of a strictly conventional intercourse.


Lost in thoughts for the most part
bitter and self reproachful, George Apers
sat, at times almost envying the death-like
calm of his unconscious father, at times
goaded by an almost irresistible longing to
end at once the silence and the inactive
endurance by forcing an interview with
Aurea. He looked down, and her letter
lay on his knee ; up, and his imagination

showed him, through the moonlight, the
little head with its nimbus of golden hair,
the blue frightened eyes and dainty lips 
Aurea Chapel's whole girlish figure standing
full in the reflection of the light from
the studs-windows, against the stem of a
tree, just where the wire-fence ended and
the meadow laid down m grass began.

The representation was so amazingly real,
that he opened the library window and
stepped out upon the lawn. The figure
turned and fled. Assured now of its
actuality, George followed softly \ and in the
space of a few hundred yards, under the
shadow of an old walnut-tree, stood face to
face once more with the fugitive object
of this day's thoughts and his night's
dreams.

Her hat was in her hand 3 but she had
no other outdoor gear, and to all appearance
must have stolen forth without premeditation,
acting, as ever, upon the impulse

of the moment. George took lier hand,
waiting for her to speak, finding no ready
words with which to utter his emotions of
surprise and ]o.

Aurea, on her part, was agitated with
her short run, and words came but slowly.
Then, with a touch of characteristic petulance,
she asked :

Why have you followed me ? I came
out to be cool and to be alone, and you are
the last person I wished to see.'

" The last," Aurea ! when to me you
are simply the first I'

And she was going to be Leopold's bride
the next day ! Undoubtedly the man ought
not to have said it ; but then he loved lier
now, when he was about to lose her, as he
had never loved her before. The very
chase which she had given him, showing:
herself only to endeavour to escape him,
had quickened his appreciation of the worth
of these fleeting moments, and of her value

to him. When he used to meet her in his
mother's drawing-room, knowing well that
in all probability she might be his for the
asking, he had felt far less inclination to
urge his claims upon her ; but this solitary
pursuit, this apparent attainment, covering
as he deeply realized actual impossibility of
possession, stirred all his pulses and taught
him suddenly, for the first time in this life,
what the lover's passion certainly might
be. There w-as solitude, there was silence,
there A'as propinquity, there was the existence
of an accepted rival, and above all
there was the memory of her appeal to
himself. George was in the state of mind
in which a man flings the reins on the
neck of impulse, without regard to possible
consequences, or memory of prudential
considerations. At last the stress of circumstances
had burst the bonds of his
conventional slavery.

'Aurea' he exclaimed excitedly, 'must

tills be  this hideous ceremony which you
have got up for tomorrow?'

Certainly,' she replied, with equal decision.
' I am going to be married tomorrow
; and if it is a hideous mistake it
will not be my fault : it will be yours 
yours all the time  and I hope you will
feel it, and I hope you will be utterly
miserable and wretched and feel horribly
wicked and guilty, because you will be all

that !'

Aurea !' he pleaded ; but she went on
with gathering vehemence:

I declare that it will not be my fault one
bit, but the fault of those who might have
thought for me and didn't take the trouble :
of my father, who thinks of me less than of
a picture ; of my aunt, who is thankful I'm
none of her own ; of you, who, when I
humbled myself to ask a question of you,
would not even answer me ; of God, who
took mv mother from me just when I needed

her most. The Avorst of it is that it is I
that shall have to suffer, and that you will
all of you be just as comfortable as though
nothing bad had been done, and as though
no poor unhappy little girl had been left to
marry a man that was not fit for her to
speak to, because she had thought him
different from what he really was when she
knew no better ; and everybody after that
would rather see her die than help her out
of it, lest it should bring some trouble on
them !'

Aurea! spare me, I entreat you!'
Why should I snare you, when no one
has spared me  you least of all? I asked
you to my wedding on purpose. I was
determined that you should be there. Yes,
you in particular. You that I trusted ;
you that I actually wrote to. I wish I had
broken my finger-bones first ! You're faithless,
you're revengeful, you're cowardly!
You were angry because I told you before

that Leopold was nicer than you, and so you
would have nothing more to do with me.
AAYell, you shall have nothing more to do
with me  nothing, ever ; but tomorrow
you shall be there, and I shall turn round
and look at you  you alone will know what
I mean. There was a girl I knew in
Southern Italy who punished some one so,
and I will do it too. I hate you, George
Apers ; and I've come here in hopes of
meeting you to tell you so. Xow, give me
that letter, and let me go before I am
missed.'

What letter ?' asked George pleadingly.
Crushed by such burning words from lips
so loved, he was in no state to understand
that wounded pride alone could scarcely
have dictated them.

"what letter?" why, the one I wrote
you. Give it to me quick  at once !' she
added imperiously. ' I know you have got
it about you. Letters such as that, men

always keep  nine times out of ten to
punish the writer ; but you shall not have
me in your power so.'

A urea, where did you learn these dreadful
thoughts ? They were singularly unlike
you when I knew you last.'

When you knew me before, I was silly
enough to believe that I could judge of men
by myself. I had not then had the honour
to know Leopold  Leopold Stanley  and
you. Shall I tell you what I have learnt
since that happy time ? That bad men are
liars, and that good men are cowards, and
that there is no more trust to be placed in
one than in the other. Leopold Stuckley
is a bad man, but he would fight for his
love ; you are a good man, as people count
goodness  you wear a white tie and you
preach in a pulpit, but you would stand by
and look on and join in the service whilst
the girl you've pretended to care for is
sacrificed body and soul, because for your

VOL. II. 21

own sake you're afraid to befriend lier.
You're a coward, I say, and your moral
goodness is a weak imitation of virtue.'

George bent his head in speechless acceptance
of her condemnation.

But I want my letter,' she exclaimed
afresh ; ' my letter  give it me back ! It
isn't yours. You have no right to keep it.
I wrote it to another man  to a man that
I stupidly imagined I understood and
could reckon upon, at least, as a friend ;
but I know you better now. Give it me
back, or I shall understand that you mean
to make some unworthy use of the trust
that you never deserved.'

Take it then, since that is the only jroof
of love left for me to give you, Aurea,'
said George, holding out to her the letter,
Adorn already by the familiarity of precious
use.

Aurea seized the paper, glanced at it
with an instant's failure of set features,

then tore it into shreds, which fluttered
like snowflakes to the grass beneath their
feet.

So perishes my trust !* she said, with
an intensity of feeling of which, till now
George would have thought her incapable.
Now, George Apers, let us say goodbye.
I thank you, at least, for renouncing
for my sake your vanity. You will now
never be able to show that letter to any
other man to excite a laugh at the expense
of the foolish girl who wrote it ; but I have
nothing else to thank you for. Goodnight.
'

How he scarcely knew afterwards, but
the next instant George Apers found himself
upon the grass at Aurea's wilful feet,
nearer sobbing than he had ever been
before; with one hand collecting; the scattered
fragments of the misused letter, with
the other entreating but not venturing; to
detain her.

212

Try me, Aurea  try me once more he
prayed, as soon as he could command
articulate utterance. ' My love is no longer
cowardly. I will save you even yet, and
then I will never see you again! What
will you allow me to do? That is the
question. I will sacrifice everything for
you, but it shall not be called by that
name; it shall be a gift of joy, my only
hope, my only pleasure. Will you come
with me straight to my mother? Come
with me now.'

To your mother ! Why, you must be
mad; as well go to my aunt. What reception,
I ask you, would your mother be
likely to give me? And next door to my
own home, too.'

Go to my sister, then. She is far
enough off. Two hundred miles across
England, from west to east. She is at
home, alone in the Vicarage; I left her there
only this morning.'

There was a shade less impatience in the
reply.

To Mrs. Smith ! and how am I to get to
her, and what have I to tell her?'

Anything, everything  just what you
like.'

But I do not care to confess to your
sister if I have made a mistake. Mrs.
Apers Smith has always struck me as one
of those unapproachable people who make
a point of always acting correctly upon
right judgments.'

How little you know her, Aurea; and
how little you can know of her history !
She did not stop short as you might yet.
She turned the mistake of a day into the
error of a lifetime. But she has suffered,
Aurea, and she is very true and very unconventional.
I can trust her; she would
receive you as she ought, and as you
deserve to be received, with the utmost
sympathy and kindness. Go to her, Aurea ;

not for my sake  do not misunderstand me
for one moment  not for anyone's sake, but
solely for your own. There is, or will be,
time yet. AYill you go, Aurea? That man
you are engaged to marry tomorrow is all
that may have been suggested to you.'

'Don't tell me what he is now; I do not
wish to hear it !' cried the girl passionately.
When I wrote you that letter I was a
child  I was not half serious, I was playing
with my life ; now I am a woman, and I am
desperately in earnest. But you  you do
not deserve that I should ever ask your
advice again, far less that I should give you
the opportunity of helping me to save myself.
Yet I am forced to turn to you,
because I have no one else.'

George laid his hand upon hers, and this
time she did not withdraw it.

I said I was a woman, just now,' she
added, with a little gasp ; ' yet I don't
think I am quite grown-up after all, since

I can't depend upon myself alone. I am
frightened; I don't know where to go, nor
what to do. I have stayed on here, and
let it get to the very day before, instead of
going away at once, as I ought to have
done, directly I knew about it all.'

With this, all her assumed air of defiance
failed her, and she broke into silent sobs,
no longer able to resist the support of her
former friend's protecting arm.

Listen to me, Aurea,' he said  ' let me
walk with you a little way towards your
aunt's house; you are trembling so you have
scarcely strength to go alone  listen tome,
and forgive me for having been such a
cowardly brute as to leave you when you
sent me such a touching appeal. You
must forgive me, for I have been very
wretched ever since  as wretched as you
can have been, in a different way.'

Oh ! men are never wretched,' she said,
with one last effort at asserting her independence

; ' directly they feel uncomfortable,
they go and make some woman shed
tears, and then they feel better.'

You think you know a great deal about
men now, Aurea; but my feeling chiefly is
that you have a great deal to unlearn.'

The man that I have been eno'aoed to
says that " every man understands all
women," but that " no girl comprehends
more than one man ;" but it is false, like all
the rash things he says, because he does not
understand even me. He believes at this
moment that I am m my own room pretending
to be sulky, but really delighted
at the prospect of marrying him tomorrow.
I will never marry him ! George, George !'
she said, stopping short, and classing both
hands together as she faced him, ' tell me
what to do, if you have the least feeling
about me left ! I shall go and drown myself
if you don't, and no one shall ever see me

again !'

If I have the least bit of feeling, Aurea !
no feeling that I ever had about you before
and I believed it vas as strong a love as
I was capable of  can compare to that
which I feel for you now ; have felt, indeed,
ever since I have been driven to think of
you in the light of a new knowledge.
There is but one things I can tell you todo.
Summon up your courage  go back
and tell Stuckley that you won't marry
him.'

No, no ! You are mocking me.
How can you have the cruelty ? It is
impossible -, absolutely and utterly out of
the question ! Why, everything is ready ;
even my dress is laid out in my room.
What, break it all off now, face to face ! It
would take the courage of a lion, and I
have the heart of a hare  papa always said

so.'

Can you not go and speak to your aunt,
then ?'

To my aunt ! as well go to your mother.
Why, my aunt knows fifty times better
than I do, and has known all along, the sort
of creature he is,' touching her en oa elements

CD CD

ring, the diamonds of which flashed in the
moonlight. * Rather than have a fiasco
of that sort occur in her house she would
turn me out of doors. It was not she that
warned me about him only ten days ago.
She and your mother both disapprove of
him; but it's on the ground of his birth,
and not of his conduct.'

Then I can but make one other suofo-es-
tion. I fall back on my sister. Aurea, if
you can do nothing else, go to her, I beg
you. Four hours will take you to London,
and two or three more will bring you to
Slumsby. Surely you can make your way
thither tomorrow morning ? There's a fast
train at 7*40. Go to her, I entreat you.
You do not know her well ; but you are
sure of her protection until you have time

to communicate with your father, or to consider
what steps to take next. You can
write to your aunt, before leaving, your
reasons for ooinD ; and also to that other '

Yes ! and have them all say at once
that I've gone off with you I'

On the contrary. I shall remain here.
I shall show myself in the morning as if
nothing had happened ; and I shall stay
with my parents, so long as to keep away
from you is the only service I can render
you.'

I cannot say  I cannot 21'oniise,' she
cried impatiently. ' Leave me now ; we are
getting too near the house. I must go in
now. We shall be meeting some one.'

Am I not to know whether this wretched
affair is to take place or not, Aurea ? Are
you going to leave me all these hours of
suspense ?'

How can I tell what I don't know
myself ? I can only say this, that if I do

go to the station in the morning, and when
I get there find you there, I shall turn
back, and go right off home again, and
shall appear in the sacrificial garments at
midday.'

 You may depend upon me. You shall
not find me there ; but, Aurea, I cannot let
you go like this. Say before you go, just
that you will always treat me as a friend 
at least that you will always turn to me
whenever you happen to want me, that
you will forgive me for the one time that
I failed you  and I mil never again be
wanting when you need me. Try to say
it, Aurea.'

I think I must have forgiven you before
I came here this evening,' she answered
gently.

Aurea, sweet Aurea, why were you not
to have been mine I'

If I had been 3 ours,' she said, with a
faint attempt at the mirthfulness of former

days, ' do you not honestly think that in
that case by noah I might have been tired of
you?'

Then let us part as friends this time, at
least, my child  my love that might have
been !'

As friends then, George, in heart and
mind. No, you must not touch my lips ;
they are not free from that man's hateful
kiss.'

 Say it shall never be again. Say it,
Aurea, and keep it for your own sweet
sake.'

Well, the whole affair will have an ugly
sound, Mr. Apers,' she said, drawing herself
off to a distance, with a sudden air of
defiance. ' Listen to this : " Miss Aurea
Chapel ran away upon the morning of her
wedding-day; left his diamond ring and a
letter for her intended bridegroom on the
table, and fled to the house of a former
friend, presumably preferred to the man

to whom lie was betrothed, and whose wife
she was to have been in a few hours."
That "former friend" and Aurea Chapel
weill both have pleasant things to hear.
Waspish words will pmsue them for the
rest of their troublesome lives.'

 If we have both of us made a mistake,
we must both abide the consequences,' said
George falteringly.

Yes ; but he has been much worse than
either of us. We made errors of judgment,
perhaps : he committed crimes of conduct,'
said the girl, with a renewed outburst of
energy and upheaval of wounded self-love ;
and he will have nothing but pity, and we
shall have all the blame.'

George winced. He knew it well, although
he had forgotten it in the moment
of strong feeling through which he had
been passing. Cowardice had prevented
his acting before, and now the consequences
of action would be ten thousand times

worse. Passion, doubtless, will make the
moral coward momentarily brave, or even
heroic ; but then passion, after all, being
only self-love in a subtler form, need expect
no higher recognition. For a second, he
almost wished that 'Golden Hair' had never
come to lure him on beneath the moon;
but that, having come, she should wander
away from him for ever, because her impulsive
feet were too uncertain to stay  that
was a thought which his renewed love, even
in its weakest moment, was still strong
enough to kill.

Go back now,' said Aurea, authoritatively.
' I have been gone for nearly an
hour, and you must not come one step farther.
I cannot promise anything, and I am
dreadfully frightened ; but you have been
good  very good to me, and I am not
ungrateful. Xo  no other Dood-nio-ht or
good-bye here.'

Gorse watched till from a distance he

777 Daily OF SODDEN FEN. '

saw lier re-enter the open hall-door, a slim
shade in the stream of light which fell from
the lamp above the doorway ; then he
noiselessly took his way back by the grassy
glade they had just trodden together. When
he approached his own dwelling, he lit a
cigar, to account for his evening rambles;
then returned to his mother's drawing-room
through one of the long windows. His
mother was as he had left her  sit tin 2 in
an easy chair in her special corner, in full
flow of small-talk with some visitors.

 Well, George,' she said, as he took his
stand behind her chair, ' is it going to be
fine for tomorrow? Happy the bride, you
know, that the sun shines on. I am sure
I wish that poor, silly girl nothing but
what is quite kind and agreeable ; but at the
same time, when people will marry out of
their own rank, I always feel that they must
take the chance of what comes of it. You
know I have had occasion to say so before.'

This being Mrs. Apers's only allusion,
direct or indirect, to her stepdaughter
since her son had entered the house, he
received it in silence.

I have heard,' the lady continued, ' that
things have not been going quite smoothly
there this last week. I've been told that
some of Mr. Leopold Stuckley's (such a
name !) former proceedings have been
comines to lio'ht, and that Miss Aurea has
been so wanting in self-respect as to take
more notice of them than under the circumstances
was altogether becoming. But
then, poor girl, she has had the great disadvantage
of an early introduction into
foreign society ; and when a young lady
who might have done better takes up with
an inferior connection like this, you may be
sure that there is a flaw somewhere in her
nature, though you may not be able to say
exactly where it is.

VOL. II. 22

A PERSONAL EXPLANATION.

[ER brother being gone, Jessie, in
 order not to disappoint expect
nations which she had raised,
turned in at the Dailyss' cottage. She was
not in a mood for ordinary conversation ; but
having sent Susan Daily a good square of
carpet for her having-room floor, the present
furnished an excuse for an interview. The
said floor being composed of bricks of the
dampest, Susan Daily had complained that
they never would dry, and Jessie, whilst

entertaining many doubts as to the utility
of the gift, had ventured to make it.

Adam was digging in the front garden
when Mrs. Smith lifted the latch, and a
stranger's voice was audible with Mrs.
Daily's in the cottage. Jessie recognised it
for that of the young teacher in whose class
Adam had come to grief, and by whom he
had been dismissed as ' a mere heathen.'

Adam dug on silently and anxiously,
scarcely replying to Mrs. Smith's greeting.
Would the stranger within doors relate all
the circumstances of his outbreak in the
school? It was not the maternal reproof
which the lad had to fear  his anxiety
proceeded from a very different cause ; if
his mother were told the words that were
used about her own father, Adam's grandfather
Hoston  if she heard the expressions
which had provoked her son's indignation
and distress  what significance would they
not have in her ears !

222

She would perceive at once that lier
secret  the secret of her father's ill-doing 
must be Adam's secret also ; and there was
that in this peasant boy's nature which
caused the notion to fill him nth unselfish
dread. Inspired by this unexplained feeling,
he threw down his rake, and leaving
his new friend to wonder at his unwonted
neglect of her presence, he picked up his
jacket and ran round to the back.

If any of my lads,' Susan Daily was
saying, ' have not conducted themselves in
school, I'm sorry for it. Daily's very particular
about their all learning to write out
their names, and about their making allowances
for everybody, and so forth.'

That strikes me, Mrs. Daily, as rather
an odd Away of putting it,' returned the
young gentleman ; ' a boy does not come to
school to make allowances for his teachers,
but to profit by what is taught him. Adam
ought to have more instruction.'

Very likely, sir ; but even if I had the
means to turn such a big lad into a scholar,
I don't know how it would strike Daily.
My husband always looks at things for
himself, and he brings them all up to do
the same, and to count upon others doing
likewise. Then, again, he is not one as '11
stand being interfered with himself, and he
never interferes with others ; and if Adam
or any of my lads interfered with you or
with anyone else, I'm sure I'm sorry for it.
Adam, come in and speak for yourself.
Here's a young man you seem to have put
about, somehow. Turn it over in your
memory, and see if you can certify how it
came up.'

Adam stood motionless in the back doorway.


Just let me repeat the circumstances to
sou, Mrs. Daily,' said the teacher.

No, sir,' pleaded Adam, coming forward.

Then, as the new-comer still persisted in

an attempt to give his version of the affair
in the school, Adam turned into the back-garden,
and the next instant yells from the
baby lying out in an osier basket sent Mrs.
Daily flying thither. Seeing his mother
safely employed, Adam returned into the
dwelling, and, shutting the door behind
him, faced the teacher and Mrs. Smith, who
had entered meanwhile from the front.

Your own conscience, you see, my lad,
tells you you've done wrong, since you're
afraid of my speaking to your mother,' said
the first visitor.

No, sir, it do not,' said Adam shortly.

The teacher appealed to Mrs. Smith to
get him out of his difficulties, but in vain.
In answer to all his further endeavours,
Adam remained obstinately silent, until the
perplexed visitor  who was a most excellent
young man, mistaken only in the
assumption that shoots which bore such
satisfactory fruit in his own case, were

applicable to be grafted indiscriminately on
all other stocks  went this way dejectedly,
feelings that his task was harder than it ouo-ht
to have been. But the moment that he had
closed the gate behind him, and his shadow
fell upon the dusty road, Adam looked up
awkwardly and apologetically in Mrs.
Smith's face, saying :

I did it for her sake. I'll go to school
next Sunday and let him take it out of me.
I'll be a sort of comfort to him.'

Her ' was his mother, who at that
moment re-entered the room, her baby in
her arms.

 What was the odds of it, Adam ?' she
asked ; then, seeing Mrs. Smith, stopped
short and looked down in confusion at the
carpet  or rather what had been the carpet,
although it was all there.

Cut into pieces ! Whereas it had been
a good ten-foot square of Kidderminster,
now it was a series of little mats, each about

a foot and a half across, no bigger ; all
turned face downwards on to the bricks,
with their edges frayed and meeting unevenly;
the dull dirty-looking surface which
they presented bore no resemblance whatever
to the bright-looking carpet which
had entered the cottage but the day before.

Daily ripped it,' said Susan, for the first
time speaking almost doubtfully of any
action of that immaculate man's.

Well, I dare say he had a reason,' said
Mrs. Smith, pitying the woman's embarrassment.


Oh yes, he had a reason, had Daily.
He don't never act contrary to reason ;
though I may say, Mrs. Smith, I do feel to
pity it. I'm sure I'd gladly have shook it
out once a month or so, if that was all; and
Adam, he'd have lent me a hand. He gave
his father to understand as much. He felt
quite a sinking, did Adam, the same as I did
myself, when he saw his father tearing away

at it with his breeches-knife. I'm telling
you less than the truth, Mrs. Smith, when
I own that I slipped right out of the house,
and went down as far as the pump, and left
the baby behind me, though I'd never set
foot in the street without a child in my arms
since the day that mother was buried. The
neighbours, they had it all down the village
that the baby was taken with fits, through
seeing: me workings the handle without
it ; and I couldn't come back again neither,
not till I'd dipped my face in a bucket of
water.'

Was your husband offended ?'

Into ; that wasn't the reason. He said if
you and me were friends, there was no cause
in life why you shouldn't make me a present.
'Wasn't that. 'Twas because he wouldn't
see me breaking my back over shaking a
carpet ; and he hadn't the time to spare to
beat it himself, nor yet the money to have it
done. So he signed it up into mats, that

I could shake easy out of the doorway; and

after all, it is all there. Xo, it was I turned

it face downwards, 'twas such a pity to tread

on the colours; but if I had kno\T.i you

was coming, I'd have laid it all upwards for

you to see.'
%i

]ills. Smith did see the pressing economy
of labour, and the well-meant carefulness of
the arrangement, and did her best to reassure
the heart of her simple neighbour.
Then turning to Adam, she strove to stir in
him a quicker desire for instruction.

 Adam,' she said, ' when that gentleman
called you " a mere heathen," he spoke no
more than the truth, so far as practical acquirements
in the way of learning go.'

Adam's face flushed, but with shame, not
resentment. You can write your own name,
but that is all you can do, I believe. You had
better come to me in the evenings and learn.'

Adam looked doubtful, and answered but
slowly. He was evidently shyer than usual.

I can read most words if I has 'em to
myself ; if I Have it out with them alone,
and there's nobody standing over to hurry
me on, and to accuse me of miscalling 'em,
ma'am. I've got all them Latin words what
is written on the tomb that you talk of.
Mr. Apers wrote 'em for me when he came
to see the church. You can hear me say
them if you like. When I'm grown a man
and have fetched my old granny out of the
Union, I mean to have them wrote in English,
the same as the Game Licenses in the
church porch, so that all that comes and
goes may read them.'

Yes,' interposed Susan Daily, attending
only to what she understood; ' and father he
says he'll never enter the church so long as
them documents flies in his face with every
flap of the big door. They was there the
year we were married in Cutthorpe Church,
and Daily hasn't ever crossed the threshold
of it since, nor taken his boys and girls to

be christened; though he's proud enough of
his namesake's tombstone, he's never introduced
one of 'em to it.'

He doesn't come to Slumsby Church
either, Mrs. Daily; and we've nothing flying
on the doorway there excepting some articles
about Justices of the Peace.'

Oh, that's all along of Mr. Smith. He
can't kneel, don't you see, ma'am, where Mr.
Smith stands master. " Susan," he's often
said to me in the days when first we were
married, before we got, like the best o' husbands
and wives, to have said all our say to
each other  " Susan, I'll go to church the
day that I'm master of Sodden Fen, and
never till then." The day the Almighty
gives him his dues he'll go, Mrs. Smith,
you may trust upon that  then, and no
sooner !'

The pride in the simple wife's face as she
spoke, was a striking index of character.

The old experience,' thought Mrs. Smith

' the joyful weight of possession bends the
knees, the burden of denial does but bow
the back;' but of the village wife who spoke
to her she took her leave with a very simple
answer.

Behind how many radiant figures, Jessie
wondered, bending low on marble pavements
with their burden of joy, as Aurea and
Leopold would kneel the next day, had
some other stood as her brother would stand,
erect, dismissing with smiles all evidences of
his woe, yet finding the load of his life
doubled by the lightening of theirs. Only
by allying themselves to the force which
seemed to impose these burdens on them,
whether they named it Deity or Destiny,
might such troubled ones win for themselves
a power over circumstance, undi'eamt of by
simply the favoured of fortune. Sole remedy
offered by philosophers and moralists alike ;
rejected perforce as the first, to be accepted
as the last and simplest lesson of life.

Whilst the nightingales were inundating
the dewy grounds and silent fields with
floods of song ; whilst far off, Aurea Chapel
was holding her former lover captive with
the maoic of a conversation more entrancing;
than any poem, Jessie, leaning out of her
open window, sole worshipper of harmonious
sound in Slumsby, gave herself up with
fuller freedom to thoughts born of the day
and of the hour. From the marriage of
Aurea Chapel and the future of her disappointed
brother, her mind escaped to the
meeting with her husband's father, returning
finally to the prospects, interesting only
to herself, of the village lad, Adam Daily.

Jessie was too true to deny her humble
relations, whether marriage or mental affinities
formed the link of connection. To her,
Adam January was a brother, and Churchwarden
Smith was a long-looked-for father.
She determined to tell him her secret next
day. She had a task to get through which

she felt could be best undertaken during
brother's absence. She could see Mr.
Smith with less fear of inquiry or of
interruption, and it-vrould be easier for
them both to face her brother with the intention
of divulging their relationship when
a new return home made a fresh starting
in their common life together.

Jessie dreaded the disclosure greatly,
whilst she desired it. Forecasts of the
decisive interview agitated her. If her
husband were to have come back to her the
next day, her life could scarcely have been
more stirred than it was by the resolution
she had taken to make common cause T.th
her husband's father in the hope of together
succeeding, where each had failed singly, in
bringing back the husband and son. The
assurance of another's sympathy in working
for the longed-for end inspired her with
new confidence in its achievement, and the
belief that together they would brings home

their prodigal made her heart beat and her
pulse throb, as she sat looking over the
purpling plain which marked the line of
the peat-lands.

It was early still ; down the Devonshire
lane Aurea Chapel had not yet picked her
way homewards, accompanied by George,
when Jessie, wrapped in a soft woollen
shawl, passed from the low-ceiling rooms
in the Yicarage, through the gar den walks
into the churchyard, and thence by the
deserted village roadway towards Sodden
Fen. She lead a fancy to look at her
husband's home lying asleep under the
moon. The lights in the village hamlet
were out long ago. No one used a candle
in these brief nights of summer.

Not a soul did Jessie encounter as she
quietly passed by the unpaved village street.
Such vice as there was to be found in the
hamlet contrived to exist without public
exposure ; went within doors at early

hours, and got drunk chiefly on Saturday
nights. But when she came up to the
Dailyss' cottage, there  to the surprise of
her doubting senses  human life was dimly
discernible, for the gaunt figure of James
Daily was outlined against the dusky background
of the night, bestriding the thatched
roof of his own dwelling'. Such a lowly
dwelling it was, and one so lavishly
furnished with footholds in the tufts of
fragrant weeds and grass with which it was
covered, that Jessie herself could without
any great difficulty have followed its owner's
queer example.

The eccentric fellow was crouching down
upon the roof, one arm twined round the
chimney for support 5 he was apparently
intently occupied with some object of interest
seen through the broken panes of the
skylight, against which his face was pressed.
Had the cottage been anyone else's abode
but his own, he might well have been

VOL. II. 23

credited with dishonest intentions ; as it
was, his appearance was sufficiently strange
to compel Jessie Smith to stop and observe
him. Suddenly, the strange figure drew
itself up and sat erect.

Drop that he shouted through the gap
in the window, shaking with agitation till
he nearly lost his balance ; then, pausing
an instant, lifted his head and saw Mrs.
Smith standing below him. Another glance
through the skylight seemed to satisfy him
that his command  for whatever cause
issued  had been obeyed, and in careless
haste he prepared to descend. Involuntarily
Jessie Smith turned to escape him,
decidedly wishing that she had not come,
but on further reflection changed her intention.


She was on the road-side of the unpleasant
ditch which served as a moat to
the castle of this strange Briton, he on the
other ; but her friend Susan and the boys

and girls lay sleeping within a few yards
of them, and Jessie was not given to
mistrustful fears of her fellow-creatures.
Neither did she consider uneasiness in James
Daily's company to be warranted by the
varied considerations that the neighbours
gave him a bad name, that he had flung an
armful of thatch upon her brother's head,
and that he preferred the outside of his roof
on a hot night to breathing the stifling
atmosphere beneath.

Nevertheless, knowing by repute the
morbid sensitiveness of this man, she was
somewhat anxious as to how he might meet
her, when she thus stood before him unexpectedly
 in the guise, too, of an apparent
spy upon his actions. Face him she must,
however, for he was coming towards her,
and to shun the situation by silent retreat
would be to lower, inferentially, the motives
of both.

James Daily had 'evidently no intention

232

University OF iitllMOM


of letting her escape him. Since the affair
with the piastres he had carefully avoided
further intercourse with the Vicarage, and
he had not as yet spoken to the Yicar's
sister ; but his wife had told him of the
lady's visits, and he had drawn his own
conclusions accordingly  'perversely, as conclusions
of his were sure to be come at.
She had given his wife a carpet, and she
had proposed to instruct his son ; but
carpets and education appealed to his sympathies
quite as little as tea and tracts
would have done. Darkness and solitude
favoured the utterance of his sentiments,
and holding his garden-gate in his hand,
he abruptly invited her entrance.

Well, come in ; I shall not hurt you.'
I am not afraid that you will, Mr.
Daily ; but I can't come in at this time in
the evening, when your wife and family are
all asleep in their beds.'

Tes, they are all abed, and that's why

I'm out of it ; but they aren't all asleep, as
they used to be, for there's that stupid
Adam burning a candle-end in the bed over
a leaf of print, under a rotten thatch.
Those who set him on to it had better pay
to the Sun Fire Union, and get us a brass
for the house. Sixpence a week in the
Burial Club is all I can do for myself,
and more than I'd ever have aimed for if
I'd reckoned on paying for twenty years for
those that might just as well have been
laid by the parish. When Adam caught
my eye upon him and heard me give him
my orders, he gave a jump and dropped
the light instead of the paper, right therein
the bed among the lot of them.'

You don't mean to say that he set
anything alight?'

'Well, no, not exactly ; it fell on to Bob's
head and frizzled away in his hair. But
Adam shan't have a second chance, I can
tell you. If he wants to go to school o'

nights, he must go to Cutthorpe, to the
tile-yard : there's classes there of all sorts
for the lads at the factory. I'm the first of
my name as ever learnt reading and writings,
and I mastered it there. Once he's
a rough-moulder they'll stuff all they can
into his head, if he'll only grant 'em the
chance. '

Let Adam come to me and work in the
garden. I've taken a liking to your boy.
We can board him and lodge him somewhere
about the premises. I'll undertake to
teach him when his work is done at nights.'

To stand touching his hat, and seasoning
his lanouaoe with "sir" and with ' ma'am"
every time that he's looked at. Service is
slavery, and I've no value for gentleman's
places ; but Adam may suit himself as long
as he keeps clear of Sodden Fen. They
wanted him there a while ago ; but I took
my solemn oath, sixteen years ago, or better
now, that no son or daughter o' mine should

ever take service on Sodden Fen, not if it
would save them from starving.'

Mr. Daily,' the lady asked, seeking to
turn his attention from a subject which
clearly aroused such bitterness of feeling,
what takes you up upon the roof of your
cottage at nights? You don't go there, I
suppose, to watch over the boys and girls,
even if Adam does read in his bed ?'

I mounts the roof he cried, with rising
passion, knights when the moon's up  what
for, do you think? Why, just to look over
Sodden Fen, to see it all lying whole and
quiet, with Diggory's ditch, where my ancestor
was buried, flowing along by the
Hards. When the sun shines I've got my
work to be done, and I never cast any
glances that way; there's the robber's horses
and the robber's cattle, the robber's ploughs
and the robber's servants trailing over my
lands. But by nights when he's gone to his
evil dreams  churchwarden though he maybe

 I leave my wife and my family sleeping
below, and I sit and watch and watch out
here under the darkness, and the place is all
free  free to the bats, the owls, and to me.
Though I never set foot on the Fen, yet I
guard it. It's my acres I'm guarding, not
my " pauper's progeny," as the old parson's
housekeeper named 'em one day. It's for
that that I mounts the thatch. After that,
ask rae to let one of my children earn his
living in Mr. Smith's service, or with anyone
of his family. Pity that the name is
so common. I could have wished you a
better. Might one ask where is your
husband ?'

My husband, Mr. Daily, has emigrated.
He was always very ready to espouse the
cause of those whom he held to be trodden
down in this country, and he went Xo look
for fresh lands for the agriculturist in
another quarter of the globe. He was an
agent and land-surveyor for the Trades.'

And you, didn't you care enough about
the people or him to go with him ? If my
wife went wanderings about the world alone
the neighbours would sling their tongues at
her. No offence  only plain speaking

I had no other object in life, Mr. Daily,
than to help him and you all.'

Daily listened in surprised incredulity.

lyell, I don't hold with that emigrating
myself,' he said, after a moment of thought;
it's taking our own bread out of our
mouths, and sending us packing to pick up
a crust in some one else's country. " Give
us our rights here," that is what I says.
Here are my rights, where I can clutch 'em
with my ten fingers ; and here are my lands,
where I can see 'em every day and night.'

But after all this, what was Jessie to do
about taking Adam into her service ? The
news of her connection with Mr. Smith,
the churchwarden, would shortly be all over
Siumsby. K she carried out her intention

of divulging her secret next day, James
Daily would indignantly repulse lier offer
for his son. With all his moroseness there
was much which she could not but pity in
this unpopular man. His faults were in
part, at any rate, the undoubted production
of the earlier faults of Iter class ; his forbidding
manner was due to his habit of
holding no intercourse with others, but
of feeding upon his supposed wrongs in
secret. Had he met her in the day-time he
would not have spoken ; but night favours
communicativeness on the part of these self-contained
natures. There was also in his
freedom of speech  ungues sed by her  a
tribute to his wife Susan's favourable testimony
to her worth.

This effort at conversation was James
Daily's supreme, long-delayed attempt at
unburdening his mind. He had felt instinctively
that in order to such unburdening
he must first of all assert some sort of

equality with the recipient of his confidence.


If Mrs. Smith rejected this assumption
of fellowship, if she took offence and placed
herself socially or morally in some region
above him, then he would be asking advice,
not seeking for sympathy. Then she was
the wrong helper for him ; she might then
go her ways and say she had met that
fellow James Daily, who had scared her
half out of her wits, and he would go into
his cottage and would grumble to his wife
that he happened on that stuck-up parson's
sister, and he didn't care if she came there
no more ; but Jessie had not rejected him
on his own terms, and he was now disposed
to be communicative, and, so far as
his ruoo;ed nature would allow, to be
Gently.

I don't care if you take my lad,' he said,
finding that she still remained silent ; ' I'll
send him up your ways in the morning ; he's

only got a job of crow-scaring on the north
meadow by the old Manor House, and Bob
can do that better nor he. Bob's head '11
be curious enough for a scare-crow come
daylight.'

Still Jessie did not conclude the arrangement,
and Daily, ever suspicious, was ready
to accuse her of desiring to withdraw her
offer for Adam. She had asked for the lad,
and he consented to send him ; she had
nothing to do but to say she would take him,
and yet, unaccountably to Daily's ears, she
now changed the tone of the conversation.


 Mr. Daily,' she said, ' I want to ask you
a question. You have asked me several,
and I have answered them in so far as I
was able. Now I want you to answer me.
Did you ever hear your wife's mother, Mrs.
Hoston, speak about Mr. Henry Smith, the
churchwarden's lost son? She was ilurse
to his mother, so I have been told.'

She always named him a ne'er-dos welt
that took up with the roughest lot in the
place.'

Did you know him yourself ?'
I might have spoken to him scores of
times but for his being his father's son, when
he was no higher than it might be August,
of my little uns ; but he cut and run
when he came to be the same age as our
Adam. I'd been gone then out of Slumsby
for some years myself I was a grown
young man of twenty by when it happened.
The parish gave my father the burial of
a beast, and ordered my widowed mother
the House when I was turned of seventeen.
Then I walked to Cutthorpe and
hired myself to the factory. Off and on
I worked there till I had passed my three-and-twenty
; then I married my wife and
came back to settle in Slumsby. Mr.
Smith's young un had then been missing
a twelvemonth or more., by what I heard

the old woman tell ; and I take it his
father had a good riddance of him.'

Oh ! don't say that, Mr. Daily. Should
you think you'd a good riddance of Adam,
if he happened to turn out ill on your
hands ?'

Tor sure, if he chanced to be such
a one.'

Well, but then you see you'd have
a dozen left, and that makes a difference.
Don't you suppose that Mr. Smith, for all
his riches, is an unhappy old man for the
loss of his son?'

Serve him well right if he is ! It's the
curse of the Lord, as you pious ones name
it, upon him, for withholding me and my
sons from our rights. If, when he lies on
his deathbed, there's none akin to him to
lay his bones in sorrow, serve him nothing
but right, is what I, for one, will maintain.'

It will not benefit you or your sons if
he has none of his own to come after him,'

said Jessie decidedly, for the man's persistent
bitterness seemed to call for plainer
correction.

How do I know that ?' he answered,
with a dash of cunning. ' When land
changes hands there's many a slip between
thumb and fingers.'

But suppose, now, that Mr. Smithson
were to come back aoain ? Things
more unlikely happen every day, even in
Slumsby.'

He'd have to prove it,' the man said,
with an eagerness which showed the idea
no new one to him. ' His father hasn't
set eyes on him since he was the size of
our Adam up there ; and it isn't to be
believed that if Adam was to go away now
and never come nigh us for twenty year, I
should swear to my son the moment he
made it his will to return. Xo, no ; old
Smith down at the farm has been raking
the hedges for his son's wife these dozen

years. It's been the talk of the neighbours
how he's encouraged the lowest lot of women
and girls with the dirtiest beggars' brats
that goes the round of the fairs and whatnot
; had 'em all hanging about the premises
because he fancied to pick out his
son's wife and child from among: them.
'' Smith" 's a name easy learnt to lay claim
to; but, as my old mother would tell you,
the Dailyss never yet bought their inheritance,
nor raked in the mire for their
children !'

I suppose you would buy Sodden Fen
all the same if you had the money to do it?'
said Jessie patiently, striving to bring the
man to a better mind.

Xever !' shouted the angry thatcher,
The price of Sodden Fen was paid in blood,
and money will never redeem it. llr.
Smith's an old man ; he won't be here long,
and then we shall see.'

As he spoke, the rickety gate upon

which he leant shook with the growing
violence of his passion.

I have been patient till now he protested,
' and I am patient still ; but I tell
you this, parson's sister  I mean to have my
rights before I die, and no son of old
Smith's, nor son's wife nor child, shall
keep me waiting one moment after he's laid
in his coffin. The day I step over Dig-gory'
s Dyke, we'll see who is master of
Sodden Fen. You can cut down a dahlia
where you can't grub up the thistle. I've
seven sons, and not one of them missing;
and me and my lads will stick to the land.
He's got the lying law, but I've the living
lads; and numbers is better than precept.'

He raised his voice as he spoke, and had
there been anyone passing, might well have
been overheard; but the silence of the nighttime
was broken only by the croaking of
the frogs in Diggory's Dyke : those vociferous
Gallic croakers which abound in parts

VOL. II. 24

of the Fens. Some one heard him, however.
A silent and undreamt-of auditor had
been hidden all the while in the leafy arbour
of the porch.

Adam, startled out of his new pursuit of
knowledge under difficulties by the sight
of his father's haggard face peering through
the broken window, and further roused by
the necessity of smothering the light out of
Bob's smouldering hair, heard with amazement
voices in the garden, and distinguished
one as that of the lady  ' his lady,' as he
had lately learnt to call her. Creeping
out of bed and into his few articles of clothing,
he had descended the ladder without
awakening his tired mother, and had
screened himself in the narrow porch.
Where his lady was, there he must be
waiting. What she said must be good for
him to hear.

As has been already noticed, in the simple
daily life of the cottage, wherein there was

nothing' to conceal, overhearing: had never
been converted by any law into a delinquency
; but as circumstances widen, obligations
grow, and this night for the first
time Adam was aware of a sense of deceit
in listening to what was not directly
intended for him. It was this growing
feeling which sent hips creeping out of the
darkness of the porch till he came up to
the speakers. This motive partly ; partly
also more personal longings and hopes.

Father,' he said, breaking in upon
James Daily's angry discourse, ' I heard all
you've been saying o' Mr. Smith's son; but
he mayn't be living, and whether he's a bad
un or not, he hasn't done nothing to us. I
don't feel as I could lie waiting for him, nor
I cannot turn to the tile-yard. Granny,
she knows I can't bear the factory, and she
promised she'd speak to you for me. I want
to garden all day, and get some learning o'
nights ; and I heard the lady say plain she'd

242

engage me. I can sleep anywhere  in the
wood-house, or along with the fowls ;
there's very good bedding in the Vicarage
stables, lots of straw from the boxes and
crates. If Mrs. Smith's ready to hire me, I'd
rather go right off at once, and make more
room in the attic. Bob can take the day's
job down at Dripping Ferry. And I haven't
got nothing belonging to me  only the plants
that I set in the window, and I'd like to
leave 'em to mother ; there's a streaky
fuchsia as is flowering grandly.'

James Daily demmTcd, but made no
decided objection. He had relieved his
mind by his tirade against his supposed
enemy, and was feeling lighter of heart for
the disbursement.

Well,' he said, * to know his own mind
is the sign of a man, and I reckon you'll be
one in no time. If the lady likes to take
you right back with her now, to feed you
and clothe you, and keep you in work and

.ctuals, I'm not the father to hinder. But
it must be done now  now before another
night's over. I may change my mind tomorrow,
and so may she. AVe Dailyss never
go begging for service.'

Adam took an eager step forward, and
looked imploringly in the lady's face.

Take me, ma'am ! I can do any sort of
outdoor work, I can eat any sort of food. I
can lie anywhere, and I'll grow you beautiful
roses ; only teach me more about Dig-gory
Daily, and all you said in the school.'

His father's eyes suddenly kindled.

What!' he exclaimed; ' has the parson's
sister been learning you that in the school,
about Diggory Daily our kinsman and
head ? That is the right kind of learning,
that is better than books ; then she may
take you and welcome, and mind you stick
to her truly. One who has shown respect
for the fathers will never put-on the sons.
I'm sensible now of the motive that moved

her to pick you out for the place. Go your
ways and hers as fast as you please. The
day that I want you I shall not have far to
fetch you, and that will be when Henry
Smith sets foot in the Fen.'

Up till now Jessie had hoped that it
might be possible to defer the inevitable
communication until after her intended interview
with Mr. Smith should have revealed
her secret to the parish. For the good of
his poor grudging spirit she had encouraged
James Daily to speak. The sore heart of
the man needed such long-delayed comfort.
Now, however, the force of truthful impulse
compelled her to declare herself; but her
thoughts turned first to the son.

Adam, dear lad, it has been one of my
warmest desires to employ and instruct
you ; but from some words which your
father has spoken I think it is very unlikely
that I shall be permitted to do so.
But, after all, it is of little consequence

whether I or some other person direct you ;
or whether the work you are doing, with
roses or bricks, takes you into the factory
at Cutthorpe, or leaves you in the Vicarage
garden. The ideas which govern your life
are the things which will make or undo
you. Your spirit may be noble if your
work is lowly. Your aims may be high if
your achievement is humble ; but understand
this, no aim can really exalt a man
which only touches his own advancement.
Merely to strive to improve your position
by repossessing yourself of the property of
your ancestors will no more make you a
greater man than standing on tiptoe will
increase your stature. Remember this
always : not what you have but what you
are is the thing that is of consequence.
Say the words over to yourself until you
come to understand them; they will never
lose their meaning. And in whatever way
and in whatever place you earn your living,

remember this further, that the worth of
any man's life in this world is simply the
value of his services to others

Then, turning to James Daily, not without
agitation, she continued : ' I should
have rejoiced, Mr. Daily, to take your son
into my service, especially if by so doing I
could help to make him a worthy successor
of the ancestor you are so justly proud of ;
but I must tell you first that in handing
your son over to me, you trust him to one
of the family you so unjustly condemn.
I am the wife of that old man's lost son.
Henry Smith was my husband. He sailed
for Australia four years ago, on the errand
I told you ; and my life is very sad tome
since he departed.

 I had hoped to have said this to Mr.
Smith first, but your bitter words have
compelled me to say it to you  not,
mind, as a concession to your grievous
prejudices, which I must hope you may be

persuaded to try and overcome, but to
protect us all from the errors of a false
position. To-morrow I shall console Mr.
Smith with the knowledge that the
daughter he has looked for has come to
him at last, and together he and I shall
devote our lives to the recovery of his
erring son and of my wandering husband

She ceased speaking, not because she had
told him all that she purposed to touch
upon, but because of the alarming effect
her words were producing. James Daily,
silent at first from slow apprehension, was
dumb now from the excess of angry emotion.
More given to the use of his limbs
than of his tongue, that organ when hastily
summoned refused to assist him. Brandishing
his arms in the air, he motioned her
from him, and but for Adam's quick-sighted
interposition might well have converted
a gesture into a blow. The garden-gate
was between them, and upon it the vigorous

lad instantly threw himself. Adam was
but a peasant boy defending his lady fi'om
the wrath of a parent drunken with rage,
yet no knight-errant in days of chivalry
brought to the defence of his lady more
heartfelt devotion than he.

Capacity being determined by consciousness,
all that he was or might become
Adam owed to this woman, who first taught
him self-knowledge. Hers had been the
first fingers which had called into play the
finer chords of his true nature. Since he
knew her he had begun to live the double
life which admits a man into a new
kingdom. Since he knew her he had
washed his hands every day, his self-consciousness
extending from the inner life
to the outer fringe of material actions with
which in smaller natures it is apt to begin
and end.

But James Daily had mastered his unready
tongue. His words assailed her with

I J

the greater force for the resistance they had
had to overcome in issuing from his lips.

You are Smith's son's wife, and you
mean to bring him back again to carry on
his father's robbery after the old man's
dead ! You mean to fetch him home again,
to keep me out of my own inheritance, and
you stand there and tell me so  you, a woman
alone ! You dare to face me, James Daily,
that am driven mad with the wrongs your
folk have inflicted ; and you would steal
away from me my son, with the very words
on your lips  to make him a traitor, and
such another sneak as yourselves ! Why
isn't it your husband instead of yourself,
that we might prove which is the better
man of the two ? Send him to me when
you've found him ; send him to me hereto
James Daily. I ain't never away from
home ; I don't take runs like a parson, nor
sail for foreign parts like a farmer's son,
and leave mv belongings behind me !

%i DO

Early and late have I worked like a slave ;
been a good husband, been a good father ;
schooled my children, and buried myself
(by Trhich he alluded to his Burial Club) ;
kept my wife decent and run up no score ;
stinted my pipe and swallowed my wrongs,
getting no credit from high nor low : but
I've spoken at last, and I'll stick to my
words when I've said 'em. Xo son o' mine
will ever be fed by a Smith o' the wrong
sort. And you, now I know you, be off!
Come here no more till you've happened to
light on your husband ; and if he's living,
I'll fight him !'

Then, half-mad with rage, the man
stooped to pick up a stone. Still Jessie
stood her ground. She had more to say
to him ere she departed. Filled \\i\\ shame
on his father's account, yet glowing with
the pride which stirs the heart of every
noble boy when vigorous action first calls
him to the front in life, Adam wrenched the

missile from his father's grasp. All the
man awoke within the lad's breast in that
hour, and his lady was as safe in his keeping
of as though he had been at least his
father's equal in respect of age and power.
Having; fluno the stone to a distance, he
passed the little gate which separated them
from the lady, despite his father's efforts
to thrust him aside, and stood between
his friend and his angry parent.

Tor shame, father!' he said, 'to put a
stone at a woman, and one that has done
you nothing but service. She is one of
the right sort, let her be who she may.
My mother loves her, and so do I.'

This frank avowal more nearly moved
Jessie than all Mr. Daily's violence ; laying
her hand on the boy's shoulder, she spoke
calmly and strongly:

Mr. Daily, I offer no opinion now on
your wrongs or your rights ; but this much
I think it is only right to declare  my

husband will never, with my consent,
assume the ownership of the Sodden
estate.'

Daily expressed his misinterpretation of
her words by a contemptuous gesture ; it
deepened her colour, but did not arrest her
calm and impassive utterance.

He will come back here again,' she
continued, ' as soon as Mr. Smith and I
can succeed in communicating with him.
But bush-life in Australia is a very solitary
thing ; my husband will have been camping
out in a tent, surveying land, having rough
work to accomplish, and difficult country
to get through. We cannot expect to
know where he is as if he were working in
England. Your own life here in Slums
is certainly smoother than his. Pray God
that he may be living to come ! When he
does come, he may of course choose to make
himself master, where his fathers have been
before him ; but all the power that I

possess, and all the influence that I may
have, will be thrown into the opposite
scale. !Never, so long as I have my way,
will Henry Smith, nor shall I as his wife,
retain possession of Sodden Fen.'

You believe in my story, then ?' said
the trembling man eagerly, clasping both
his hands upon the gate, hissing his words
out in the intensity of his feeling. Before
she could answer, Adam's clear, boyish
voice rang out with the triumph of superior
understandings.

Yes, father ; she does believe in your
story. She knows that Diggory Daily
lived and died. She knows that we
common folk come of his breeding, she
told us so in the school ; but she remembers
that Diggory gave up the land. She
knows that they killed him in Cutthorpe
Church, and thrust his body into the Dyke.
She knows that his lands were left to the
people ; 'isn't for you or for me that she'd

stand up. She'd have 'em thrown open to
all;

Have 'em thrown open to all ! parcel
my acres among the parish !' stammered
Daily, incredulous of his own ears. ' And
you're fool enough to believe such a story !
Wait till they've cut up the glebe yonder
into allotments.'

It was Diggory's will said Adam
gravely.

Mr. Daily said Jessie, once more,
Sodden Fen belongs by inheritance neither
to you nor to Adam. Legally, Mr. Smith
has, I believe, a rightful claim  you have
none ; legally also, Henry his son, and my
husband, would inherit the property when
his father is dead. Morally, according to
my way of thinking, neither you nor I,
your son nor my husband, have any just
claim to the lands which your namesake in
dying bequeathed to the people. Have
you forgotten the story ? If so, let Adam
remind you of it.

Forgotten !' said the miserable man,
with a ofroan. ' She asks me if I have " forgotten
1" Have I forgotten to be hungry, to
be driven with work and hardened with want ?
Have I forgotten the value of the pastureland
on the Fen, and the worth of Mr.
Smith's stock ? Have I forgotten the bundles
of osiers that they cut last year to the south ?
Have I forgotten the tons of hay that they
carried this week in the north meadow ?
Forgotten ! When Mr. Smith and his
son, and his son's wife too, are all rotting in
their coffins, maybe I shall have forgotten ;
till then I remember only too well. I
shall remember, too, every deceiving word
and every misguiding promise you've given
this night  you, Mr. Smith's daughter-in-law,
Henry Smith's wife, who pretended to
befriend me, and to take a kindly interest in
my son, and was against me all the time ;
listened to my tale, and then turned on me.
That is like a woman. It would take a

VOL. II. 25

parson or a woman all the world over to
play such a trick. You're a worthy sister
to your smooth-faced brother.'

It is an easy thing to go when you're
abused ; it saves your pride, saves your ears,
and bolsters up your dignity. It's a better
thing to stay for the abuser's sake, at the
expense of personal feeling. Jessie recognised
the better course and took it, out of
pity for the poor man's wounded hopes.

My brother, Mr. Daily, knows nothing
of this. You must not include him in
your condemnation of me ; and since you
have looked upon me as a friend, and have
thought that I should take your part in your
grievance, I am the more sorry if this mistake
comes between us. I shall hope that
some day you may come back to your first
impression, which was, I trust, that I was
one who was anxious to be counted your
friend ; but in order to that end I must
first speak out plainly. I am not taking

Mr. Smith's part against you, although he
is my father-in-law. I am not working for
my own gains, nor for my husband's.
Steer, with my consent, will my husband
assert his claims, nor shall I as his wife or
his widow ; but listen, James Daily  never,
any the more, with my consent will you or
sour son Adam make yourselves masters of
Sodden Fen. Your rights are those of the
whole village, absolute as far as they go,
but common to all as to one. Sodden Fen
is for all, not for any one family.'

'The land is mine, and mine only,'
shouted Daily, ' as much as the Ferry is Sir
Crowsby's, and the people have got as
much right to the one as the other.'

Sir Crowsby Weyland,' said Jessie,
has a deed down at Dripping Ferry which
would tell you all about it. I have seen
a copy at the farm. It would be well if
you could bring yourself to try and understand
it. Try at least to comprehend my

252

position with regard to yourself. And now,
as I will not ask you for Adam, goodnight.'


Adam,' she said, turning once more to
the lad, who stood downcast before her,
longing to follow yet fearing to stir, casting
beseeching looks of entreaty upon his
father, yet not daring to give his prayer
voice, ' you at least understand me, if your
father cannot do me justice or believe in
the truth. To you, at any rate, I have not
spoken in vain.'

Adam listened with the old lump) bigger
than ever in his honest throat. The next
instant his father, returning to the cottage,
had shut him out for the night ; and Jessie,
making her way back to the Yicarage as
fast as her now trembling limbs would
carry her, saw the boy following her at a
considerable distance, and divined that he
meant to guard her from harm until she had
reached her own dwelling.

AUREA CHAPEL S Wedding-day.

"=T is easy to wake at six o'clock
on the morning of your wedding-clay.

It is difficult to remain
asleep. If you are in London, the stir and
roll of the great city have sympathetically
ushered in the dawn of your new life for
you several hours ago. If you are in the
country, the still, rural lanes and quiet
fields, the neighbouring homesteads and the
garden-lawns seem suddenly to have become
responsive to the activity of your own

nervous centres. Many a man is reported
to have required ' to be called ' in order to
be hung ; but we have yet to hear of one
who, being sober, has over slept himself
upon the morning of his wedding-day. If
he is going through it for the first time he
has to waken early in order to consider
what it will be like. If for the second or
third time, memory has to recall the past,
and to dog the footsteps of Hope as she
builds upon the future.

All precautions will have been useless ;
no receipt short of drugging will have
averted the inevitable wakefulness. In
vain you will have closed the window-curtains
overnight, with the determination
that whatever others may have done, you
at least will prove superior to the weakness
of spending sleepless hours because you've
got to play a common part which any fool
can master. The light will have been
streaming in through every chink and

crevice of the shutters, showing your portmanteau
half-packed in a corner, bringing
into prominence anything unusual in the
arrangement of your wardrobe, falling on
the ring-box which lies somewhere on your
table.

If the time of year permit, every gardening
man or lad about the premises will
have been whetting his scythe, or driving
his machine, ere dawn, with noisy zeal,
inspired by the prospect of a ' good time
coming,' later m the day. Every woman
in the place will have been afoot two hours
earlier than customary, making excess of
occupation the excuse for the contagion of
excitement. Finally, every bird and beast
about the house or yard, having been
disturbed in its usual course of conduct,
will contribute its own peculiar protest.
The dogs, being conservative to a poodle,
will bark their disapprobation of changes in
the air ; the very hens will lay their eggs

before they're wanted, and the cocks will
crow congratulations as though the laying
of eggs had a special significance for the
universe. Hard upon a wakeful bridegroom,
this. But what then about the
bride ?

Whilst the one party to the impending
contract is fretting under the conviction
that now at least, if never before, he will
figure as a shamefaced fool for one whole
morning of his life ; whilst he is pondering
over the superior matrimonial arrangements
of those nations who carry ofi* the women
of their choice without public ceremony (a
custom which suddenly seems to him in
reality more rational, more delightful and
more decent), the other one is greeting
with thrills of happy vanity the birth of
moments which will hail her queen. The
more deeply a man is in love, the more
strongly will he feel public display a profanation
of his passion, the more will he

sicken to have the object of his affections
all to himself in some sylvan glade, as if
he were the happy savage. But marriage
settlements do not agree with sylvan shades ;
brides have a weakness for white satin;
fathers and mothers expect wedding-breakfasts,
and sisters love to be bridesmaids.
The bridegroom may be finding
such moderate consolation as he may in
the consideration that the great day will
be over at last, as all other days are over,
whatever problems of joy or grief may have
filled their hours in the interval ; but the
bride meanwhile is, more likely than not,
reckoning the same hours by a rule of
inverse proportion. She is too conservative
to have reconsidered wedding ceremonies
with special application to her own
case. Her thoughts have been forbidden to
dig beneath the surface to the meaning of
the show in which she plays the most
important part. It is her hour of triumph ;

all brides enjoy it, therefore why not she?
Besides, something tells her all the while
that it may be short-lived, and will never
come again. Even if you are not quite sure
that the nature of the man you are about to
marry is absolutely adapted to the completion
of your own, it is some comfort to have no
misgivings whatever as to the perfect fit of
the wonderful white satin garment which
hangs over a chair. Everybody must
risk something when they're going to be
married. You always come to a  Finis '
at the end of the first volume ; nobody ever
can know what is written in the next, and
yet the next will go on somehow  will
probably get to a third volume, and will
end in quite the usual way. It is morally
ceram that you are not going to make
a fiasco in life. Of course you will manage
somehow, as everybody else does when
married ; and many people say that such
tidings turn out better in the long-run if

the couple are not quite so sure of each
other at starting. It is all so strange, new
and unknown, that it is impossible to say
after all that one person will not on the
whole do quite as well as another whose
virtues may be of a different order.

It has not been particularly nice, not
being married. There have been lots of
things in a girl's life that have been very
disagreeable. Aunts and uncles have not
shoTTi a proper sense of their niece's claims,
and have squeezed her too much into a
corner in the world, in order to leave the
more room for themselves. At any rate,
now she will certainly occupy more space,
and must be more highly thought of, than
when she had no man to add to her importance
by identifying it with his own.
She will lose all these known disagreeable,
and really there is no asserting but what
they may have been harder to bear than
any she has ground for expecting to meet

with in matrimony. Besides, husbands
and wives don't always have to live together
all their lives  one or other may die young,
which is very interesting if sad, and
which leaves the surviving party with an
amount of experience, enabling a more
certain choice to be made next time. Or
one may only have to go to the south of
France or Italy, and the other may remain
in England  such things happen every day,
and no one says a word about them. It is
as proper as possible if you only keep to
well-known places ; and nobody can deny
the unsoundness of your lungs except a
doctor, who is paid to be discreet. jNo
doubt if you were a poor woman going to
marry a working man, it would matter
much more if you quite liked your husband,
because then you would be sure to have to
live together in a very tiny place, and you
would never be able to have a holiday and go
and see your friends ; you might be ever so

ill, yet unless you were ordered into a hospital
you could not get away for change of air or
change of company. You would be quite
sure to have lots of children, and your
husband would very likely come home
drunk and beat you. Besides, you'd have
to mend his clothes, and to perform all
kinds of menial services for him ; to wash
for him, and to cook for him, and to bea
sort of slave to him all the rest of your
life. But for ladies and gentlemen in the
selected ranks of society there are modifications
of all these troublesome duties,
providentially arranged, no doubt.'

Such were Aurea Chapel's thoughts when
she awoke at six o'clock on the morning of
her wedding-day, if, indeed, a mere succession
of childish ideas passing through
an excitable and unreasoning brain, nth as
little attempt to arrest or examine them as
if they had been motes in the sunshine, can
be called thought. Still, after a fashion ,

and this was her fashion, Aurea Chapel
thought.

She had not by any means forgotten all
the tliino's which she had said to George
Apers and which he had said to her on the
preceding night ; but her dress would not
fit anybody else, and so she supposed she
was going to wear it. Of course she was
going to wear it. People always did keep
engagements to parties and things of that
kind when they had accepted them, and
Aurea would not have dreamt of not wearing
a lovely new ball dress, for instance,
on the occasion for which it had been
ordered.

And yet all the while it was quite true
that she really was not sure that she was
not going to run away. It would be just
the same as drowning herself, only with the
sad certainty of waking up again, when
existence seemed least desirable, to the
piteous notoriety of being an object on the

bank, a thing that had flung itself away and
been picked up again.

Aurea Chapel had been brought up, not
in the regulated life of an English country
home, but amidst the comparative freedom
of her father's artistic circle in Italy. Her
conclusions concerning English domesticity
had all been arrived at during the last
year ; yet it was not among the chances of
Continental freedom, but among the safeguards
of the strictest English home, that
Aurea had known a friend di'op from her
side into the river. She was thinking of that
girl now  how she went on just the same,
talked and laughed, ate and drank, and
nobody had the very least notion that she
had any such thought in her mind. Now
and then she said a strange word, to be
sure, as though she were tired of her
portion in life, but they all thought she
pretended. She was doing her worsted -
work half an hour before, and she ate a

very good dinner; but when they expected
her back for her tea she was missing, and
she never came home any more. Yet she
certainly meant to finish the worsted-work
when she went out, only the river flowed
unseen beneath all the lighter purposes of
her life.

Just so Aurea fully meant to wear her
bride's dress when she got up, but she was
not at the same time quite sure that she
should, because underneath lay another idea
unknown to everyone save to George
Apers. An idea only, not a purpose, nor
an intention. Natures which are strong
enough to purpose and to intend are too
strong; for these sudden diversions of action.
Xo ; it was simply the consciousness of predisposition
to take a certain course if any
external circumstance 2:ave the necessary
impulse. Such an abandonment to casual
direction implies great feebleness of character,
whence it follows that the people who

do the most reckless things and take the
most reckless courses are seldom the most
courageous. The} are not facing consequences
which they have foreseen ; they are
merely acting upon impulse so shortsighted
as to be bled.

I wonder if it will come,' Aurea Chapel
was saying to herself as she brushed up the
golden masses of her hah just as her
unhappy friend might have said to herself,
 I wonder if I shall do it.' ' It,' was the
something which was to determine whether
or not she should really wear the orange-blossom
wreath, which without stopping
to finish her hair she now began to fasten
among it, just to try the effect. Why, it
was lovely, that contrast of the shining
gold with the creamy whiteness of the
flowers, and the pale greens of the buds
and leaflets. The right greens, too  they
had done just what she told them, and there
was not the least dash of blue in the shade

VOL. II. 26

of any leaf. ' Blue-careens are so dreadful
with my kind of hair,' she had explained.
Certainly she was going to wear the wreath.
What else could be done with it ? It
wouldn't be any good otherwise to have
had it made on purpose. Wax stephanotis-blossoms
crack so soon and spoil so quickly
if they are kept in a box. There was
nobody else who was going to be married,
and it would be such a pity to waste it.
Would George admire her when he saw her
in it ? Really the blue-greens would have
been good enough for Leopold, but she
positively couldn't feel as if she meant
to allow Leopold to have anything to do
with it, even if she were a bride.

Aurea was quite dressed, all but that
white shimmering satin, when a tap came
at her door. The clocks were striking
seven from the stairs, from the stables,
from the village church. She had not
forgotten that the fast train from Exeter

to London would pass through at 7.40,
and would this morning stop by signal to
put down visitors who were coming for the
wedding. She had not forgotten anything,
but she did not know that it was going to
make any difference to her.

The tap at the door, as she surmised,
was the maid with tea and offers of service.
The delicate wreath by this time had become
so entwined in the meshes of Aurea's
entangled hair that she was glad to sit
down, with what patience she might, and
suffer the woman to extricate it. Whilst
the maid brushed and combed, and fussed
and pulled, she began talking, after the
fashion of her class.

It must be remembered that this house
had been the home of Aurea's mother in
her girlish days. The present owner, Aurea's
uncle, was her mother's eldest brother.
Accordingly, the maid, no appendage of
Miss Chapel's, but of her aunt's, began to

262

talk of that other wedding wliicli had taken
place at the Hall twenty-two sears ago,
when Mr. Chapel was the bridegroom.
Aurea could scarcely fancy that her artistically
preoccupied father, the  Signor capellae
had ever had thoughts sufficiently
at leisure to bestow upon her mother, even
as a bride. She had always meant to have
much better spirits and to be very much
happier than her poor mother had been,
during any of the years in which they had
travelled together, and amused each other,
whilst Mr. Chapel was pursuing his tastes
in some distant home of art. But now,
perhaps she should do even worse than her
mother had done, because Leopold was not
so likely to care about art, and was more
likely to care about very different pleasures.
Still ' it ' did not come ; and as the moments
passed, tears began to fill Aurea' s eyes.
The maid saw them, but attributed them to
awakened memories of the deceased Mrs.

Chapel, and pursued a theme which produced
results, to her mind, in harmony
"smith the occasion.

Isn't it curious that I should be diessino
you not, Miss Chapel, when my mother
dressed yours on her wedding-day ? Mother
was living in this house then  it was the
year after she was married to father, and he
was gone to the Cape. Your mother
borrowed a pin of my mother for luck, to
fasten on her veil. You know they say
you must always borrow something of
somebody that they've worn on their
wedding-day to wear at yours, else it will
be dreadfully unlucky. Such common pins
weren't come in then as they use now, and
mother's was real silver-gilt. She's got
that pin now at home, down in the village.
She has kept it ever since ; and she's often
told me about it, when I've been a little
girl come home from school. A\"ell, yesterday
do you know she brought it out, and

she said if she thought you'd not be
offended she should like you to have it
to wear. smother's quite foolish about that
pin. She's set her heart on my telling you
of it ; but really there were so many important
things to be thought of, what with
the dresses and one thing and another, that
I never gave it a thought till I came to
be putting your hair up this morning, and
now it's too late. You see, mother had it
first to fasten her own bonnet on when she
was married, and then your mother had it;
and it's so very lucky to borrow a thing
that's been used by two brides before. I
mean to wear it myself some fine morning.'

Can't you go and fetch it now,
Burrows ?'

Well, I really don't see as I can, Miss
Chapel. You see, mother's cottage is
nearly all the way to the station, and I
shouldn't like people to meet me running
off, as though I were out for the day, on

such a morning as this ; besides, I've got
all the bridesmaids to dress, and no end of
things to see after, and I haven't touched
a mite of breakfast yet. I never can eat
when I'm hungry.'

Then I shall run doTi to your mother's
myself, and hear all about it. It's only
a quarter past seven, and I've nothing todo
till eleven, except to put on my dress
and veil. Fetch me that old dark-brown
dress and the garden-hat I wore last night.
Oh, and Burrows, where' s my purse ?
There's such a lot of money in it, I can't
leave it lying about. I'd rather carry it
in my pocket. "Well, wh} not go myself?
Am I to be kept a prisoner because I
happen to be a bride ? I'm not in the least
likely to meet any of the company in the
village before the train comes in ; and if anyone
in the house asks for me, you can say
that I've gone to see your mother, because
she dressed mine on her wedding-day.

You need not tell them anything about the
pm, you know, and the luck, because it
sounds silly ; but I mean to get it all the
same

Ye, she did mean to get it. Even now

she had not decided that her escape had any

other object. Probably she might even have

gone into the cottage, but that when she

reached it the doors and windows were

closed. Indeed, the whole village seemed

strangely somnolent ; not a creature did

she meet except the mowers, who were

Irishmen and strangers. They stared at

her unconcernedly as she passed, with no

speculation in their gaze. The villagers

were, in fact, making a Sunday morning of

a day which was to partake so much of a

sacred nature as to call them to the church

at eleven, to provide them with an extra

good dinner, and to fill the hours with

idleness from noon till night. On Sunday

morning what treat can compare with the

luxury of an hour or two in bed for those
who enjoy it but seldom ?

Aurea's aunt and uncle were thoroughly
conservative; they liked to do everything
in the accepted style, and they were benton
satisfying all the expectations which
custom sanctions in connection with such
events. The day was to be a grand one to
the village, a day of general glee for the
whole population. Already overnight the
church had been adorned with flowers, and
light-footed Aurea, as she passed along the
village roadway that led by it, stepped
beneath arches gay with coloured flags and
green with leafy branches. The school-children
were to strew flowers for the
bride's forgetful feet to press. In the evening
there was to be a dance upon the lawn,
and every man, woman and child belonging
to the place was to eat to the utmost, to
drink to the full, and to enjoy life for one
day if such enjoyment might be possible.

With all this in view, it was pleasant to
begin the day by an extra hour in bed. It
was half-past seven dien Aurea stood in
front of the Burrows' cottage. All the fuss
and stir had been as yet confined to the
Hall. It would never do for the folks to
be roused by the bride's calling to borrow a
pin. She hesitated for a moment and consulted
her watch, as if it could give her
advice. The train would be up in ten
minutes ; she was in the way for the
station. She thought she would just go
and see what people got in and out. She
really had nothing better to do. But she
did not mean to court recognition ; on the
contrary, she would keep well out of sight
in the lane behind the station, where, protected
by a sufficiently high paling, she
might hope to see unseen. It seemed as if a
magnet drew her to the spot.

As a rule, only market trains into Exeter
or parliamentary into Bristol stopped at

this unimportant station ; but Aurea knew
that the fast train, which might be stopped
by signal, would be sure to call this morning
to bring all the people and tidings
which were expected from Exeter. They
would be obliged to come thus early, as
there was no other means of their arriving
in time. She told herself she was only
going to see what happened when the train
got in. It was dull in the sleepy village,
it was duller in the solitude of her own
room at the Hall. She would see what
people got in and out, and she would give
herself the excitement of learning what it
would be like if she had been going. There
were only two officials at this little remote
station ; one gave out the tickets, another
put in the people. She kept out of their
sight behind the station in the lane, protected
by the goods-shed, until the train
arrived. She had only three or four
minutes to wait. Then the train rushed

up, and to her surprise, from the third-class
carriages streamed out quite a crowd of
smartly dressed women and girls on to the
platform. As a matter of fact, they came
fi'om the neighbouring; market-town, and
Aurea recognised several shopkeepers and
others that she knew, whose curiosity had
brought them to see the weddings. First of
all came the band, laden with unwieldy
musical instruments ; then the men with
the marquee and the merry-ground ;
sundry waiters and an assistant cook from
the confectioner's ; a minor canon to add
weight to the local vicar ; several curates to
support the bridesmaids ; the butler's niece
and the housekeeper's married daughter,
together with a miscellaneous medley of
small folk with whom Aurea had had
dealings in the town.

All these people came laden with bunches
of flowers, children, babies, and so forth,
and in the confusion of their passage across

the platform none noticed Aurea. Rich and
poor, all alike were equally intent upon
their own disembarkation, uneasy about
the lowering aspect of heavy clouds
threatening rain, careful of their very
best clothing, or concerned for the safety
of their bao-s and bundles.

The minor canon was, indeed, a danger
for a moment ; he had a trick of seeking
recognition of his own consequence in the
eyes of others, and on looking round he
observed a young lady quietly standing,
without an umbrella, in spite of the big
drops of rain which already were falling.
Her back was towards him, and she was
half-leaning against the unclosed gate of the
truck entrance ; but just as his attention
was centering itself upon her, a smiling
curate came up, with a joke made up of
the bride and the weather. The joke
tickled the Churchman's fancy ; the curate
offered to carry his bag ; they went off

together, and lie forgot the girl for the
moment.

But, indeed, Aurea's safety lay in the
prominence of her image in the minds of
these people. They were all so sure that
they knew where she was, that the testimony
even of their own senses would
scarcely have sufficed to convince them of
the contrary. One and all felt such an
unquestioning certainty that the bride was
where all brides must be  at the mysterious
heart and centre of things in the
sanctity of her own chamber  that they
would as soon have thought of watching:
for some sudden reversal of nature's laws,
of finding orange-blossoms sprouting from
the telegraph-poles, or champagne pouring
from the clouds in place of the sudden
heavy shower of rain which swept them
hastily from the platform.

That instant the impulse came to Aurea !
The door of the first-class compartment

forsaken by the canon stood wide open
before her. The ticket-collector was occupied
with the rush of the eager women at
the other end of the platform ; the porter
was busy with the baskets and bundles.
Opportunity, that slave of inclination,
favoured Aurea ; and just as the train was
on the pont of departure, through the
truck doorway, across the platform, and
into the empty carriage, Aurea rushed ;
then flung the door to, pulled down the
blind, and sat for a second in breathless
anticipation. The ticket-collector turned
his key in the lock, remembering that
some one had left the compartment, but
did not open the door ; blew his whistle,
and they were off. Off ! and so far as
Aurea knew, she was unrecognised by any
of the people who had been upon the platform.
Not, indeed, that she greatly cared,
now that she was once off, whether it were
so or not. She was ffoino; away, not for

concealment of person, but for announcement
of purpose.

She had no ticket. She had not thought
of taking one, partly because the man in
the office would have known her, more
because she had not at the time decided
that she was o-oino;. The train would not
stop for nearly an hour. Pursuit would be
impossible until late in the evening, by
which time she would be in Slumsby.
This was all that she cared for.

Doubtless Aurea Chapel would have
been unable to set off in this fashion if the
porter and the ticket collector at this
unimportant station had more perfectly
interpreted their duties, as dictated by the
rules of the Company. But a ' bye-law '
is to a porter what the bull's-eye of the
target is to the inexpert marksman, a thing
which it is meritorious to aim at, but not
discreditable never to hit. The complete
duty of any such official may indeed betaken

as non-existent, save in print ; custom
assigns its actual limits by narrower
data furnished by precedent. Circumstances
never can exhaust possibilities
in any given place, and yet until they
do so, duties must remain imperfectly
defined.

The instant that the train had started,
Aurea rushed to the window, with an
impulse to return, stronger than that which
had driven her away. She would not have
cared a bit if anyone had recognised her
now. She would not have minded being
taken back if it could have been accepted
quite as the natural thing that a young
lady should run away upon her wedding-day,
and if nothing further need ever have
been said about the matter 5 but that being
clearly out of the question, no sooner did
she realize that the decisive step was
irretrievably taken, that retreat was impossible,
and that fate had done it, than

VOL. II. 27 .

she flung herself upon the floor of the
carriage in a perfect agony of weeping.

Xow that she had by her own action
delivered herself from Leopold, he did not
appear half so odious to her as he had done
an hour before. She even began to be
rather sorry for him, because of his prospective
disappointment ; but much in the
same way in which she was sorry for the
villagers who had put up all those beautiful
arches with green boughs and flowers, which
now would never be wanted. She had
passed underneath them as she came through
the village, but only as runaway Aurea
Chapel, not as a smiling bride. She had
scarcely taken any notice of the kind intention
then, but it seemed very touching
to her now. That was because she now
felt her own position altogether to be the
most touching thing on earth, and the most
forsaken. Was there a bride anywhere
else all over Europe who was lying on the

floor of a railway carriage crying all alone,
and that just at the time when she might
have been dressing?

But tears, the course of which can be arrested
by the utilitarian consideration that
they are producing no effect on anybody, cannot
have the' source in any very deep fountain.
And such were poor childish Aurea's.
She picked herself up presently, aware that
the strip of carpet was dirty, and sensible
that tears falling like dewdrops on its faded
flowers were wasted when there was nobody
there to pity. ' Crying wasn't any good ' 
that was how she phrased it ; escaping by
a cheap philosophy from the difficult lesson
of painful experience.

The depths of emotion in some hearts,
like fountains welling up fi'om perennial
sources in the clustering hills, are eloquent
of nature : ' in their wind-stirred waters
moves the sound of life from all its sources,
far or near ;' and in our sympathy and love

272

there is a silence which is the very worship
of the soul. Others, by the limitation of
their drought or their repletion, do but
suggest those sparkling basins, brooded
over by twin doves, which depend upon the
accent at the waterworks for turnings on the
main. Yet Aurea's eyes were wells of
feelings, and her hair made a halo for her
grief like the aureole of a martyred saint.

If George Apers had been there she
certainly would have cried a Seat deal
more. As it was, by the time she had got
to Bristol she had grown quite composed
and was sitting up upon the seat like any
other travelled young lady. There she was
able to account for her lack of a ticket by
the explanation that she had very nearly
lost her train.

Getting into London a quarter of an hour
late, missing the next train to Cutthorje,
and hadno: three hours to wait at the Great
Eastern Terminus, did not trouble Aurea

much. She was not afraid of pursuit.
She knew that the scanty train service
down at Glen Combe would not allow of
her being overtaken. She spent the time
in writing brief letters to her aunt and to
Leopold, and in sending back the diamond
ring. She did not tell them where she was
going, because, until she had really done
a thing, Aurea never could feel quite sure
that she should do it at all : it would be
time enough to let them know her destination
when she reached it. Then she bought
a novel, and tried her best to read it ; but
how fix her thoughts ujDon the experiences
of an imaginary heroine when she herself
was writing; a truer novel nth the lines of
her own life? Novel-reading is all very
well for the middle-aged, for whom the wine
of life has lost its flavour by being kept too
long in bottle ; or for the immature, for
whom as yet it has been too freely watered
down ; but for the eager lips which are

draining the brimming cup when its flavour
is fullest, any other draught becomes insipid.
To turn from her own unwritten
biography to the story of the girl in the
railway novel, was to Aurea like exchanging
a sparkling glass of good champagne fora
tumblerful of Mrs. Burrows's gooseberry
mixture.

She tried to keep her thoughts fixed upon
herself. She did not care to let them
wander. It was not nice to fancy what
was going on far ofi down in her Devonshire
home. It was not pleasant to picture
the consternation at Glen Combe ; the angry
disgust of her uncle and aunt; the sharp
sayings of their neighbour, Mrs. Apers; the
excitement among all the invited guests ; the
suppressed jokes of the juvenile contingent.
It was not nice to think that those pretty
rustic arches would all be wasted, like the
sentiments they were meant to express. It
was not nice to think that the bandsmen, the

shopkeepers, and the tradespeople's assistants
would freely comment on lier conduct
from their own peculiar pont of view ; that
the bridesmaids, suffering from a sense of
personal injury, would no doubt despise
her utterly. But Aurea did not care about
the bridesmaids. Her own estimate of
life and conduct having been enlarged by
the steps which had so nearly made her
wife and matron, she could not go back and
look at things from the point of view of
those silly girls,' to whose judgment and
opinions she now awarded the contempt we
so often bestow upon sentiments which were
our own till yesterday.

But most unpleasant of all was it to
guess for an instant at the feelings of
indignation which must be raoino- in the
bosom of the man she had punished, however
justly. Aurea did not pity Leopold
now, because she felt so sure, even from her
partial knowledge of his character, that

all misery at lier loss would be swallowed
up for him in fury at the personal
insult. Scorn and contempt would be the
recompense he would mete out to her. He
would know what she had done it for. He
could not help knowing, whatever he might
say; and with his peculiar moral code he
would despise her. Aurea knew that he
would despise her for a weakly feminine
estimate of the relative duties of their
situation.

In those kitten like natures which have
neither the seriousness nor the capacity to
adopt for themselves some fixed moral
ideal by wliicli to measure their actions,
the tide of self-esteem perpetually ebbs and
flows under the influence of somebody else's
judgment. Having glanced at her conduct
from Leopold's point of view, Aurea felt
so very uncomfortable that, to quiet her
conscience, she immediately fell back upon
George Apers's more favourable estimate.

There at least was one man who would say
that she had acted rightly. The trembling
need of human sympathy in this agitated
bosom was thus laid to rest for the
moment.

In the train, however, on her way down
to Slumsby, she began to grow uneasy
again ; this time about her reception by
George Apers's sister. It might be ail very
well to say that Mrs. Smith would shelter
her ; no doubt she would take her in,
because she was a young lady and was
well connected. Xo doubt she would give
her her dinner and a bed ; but that was
not the sort of protection which Aurea
greatly cared for. She had travelled too
much to be shy of hotels, and money
would buy such attentions as those. If
that was all she needed, Aurea felt that she
might just as well have stayed in London.
Would Mrs. Smith give her the further
protection that her shivering soul most

needed? Would she shield her from the
wrath of her aunt and uncle ? Would she
protect her from Leopold's father and
mother ? Would she save her from a
hateful interview with Leopold himself?
Would she take Aurea's part with everyone,
and help her out at any personal
trouble or annoyance ? Would Mrs.
Smith hide her safely in some sheltered
corner from the recoil of all the expectations
she had raised ? Would she tell
her quite pleasantly what she should do
next ?

Aurea thought that she knew quite well
just exactly what she should like to do.
She should like George Apers to come
home and take care of her whilst she
stayed in Slumsby. Whilst Mrs. Smith
had all the disagreeable interviews, saw
all the angry people, heard all the nasty
things that would be said, and gave a

clever woman's contradiction to them all :
whilst Mrs. Smith published far and near
that Aurea was quite right, that she had
done a very brave and noble action on the
day she ran away, Aurea would be sitting
in the Yicarage garden \dth George Apers
at her feet, tasting the full happiness which
Mrs. Smith would soon convince them all
that she had earned.

It cannot, however, be said that when
Jessie had managed all this, Aurea's
day-dreams assigned her any prominent
place in her world ; on the contrary, Mrs.
Smith's happiness and Aurea' s were simultaneously
to be secured by the opportune
reappearance of the enigmatical husband of
the former. With tears in her eyes, Mrs.
Smith was to entreat Aurea, by taking her
place in the Yicarage, to set her free to
follow her husband to the Antipodes for the
rest of her days. George Apers was to add

his more potent persuasions to his sister s
tears, and in recognition of what Mrs.
Smith had done for her, Aurea Alas to consent,
with becoming reluctance, to replace
her in her brother's affections.

AN OLD MARKET TOWN.

HE market-town of Cutthorpe
was the nearest station for
Slumsby ] from thence it was
an easy two-mile walk through the town,
by the fields and Dripping Ferry ; buta
mile farther round to go all the way
by the high-road.

The clocks were chiming a quarter to
six, when Aurea Chapel was put down on
the platform. She and a single commercial
traveller were the only passengers who
arrived. The railway station was some

little distance out of the town ; from thence
you walked or drove in the one-horse
omnibus, as fancy took you, up a hill
reckoned steep in those parts, until the
dusty grass and struggling hedges on both
sides of the road gave place to cheap villas
with trim garden-patches in front, whereon
two hundred pounds a year middle-class
comfort could be satisfactorily maintained.
Turning again, you came upon the
Union, standing removed from the road, in
its own grounds, a seclusion equally
reserved for aristocratic wealth or pauper
indigence. Sir Crowsby Weyland's family,
not caring to play neighbour to anyone,
isolated itself in the Manor House by the
Ferry ; and nobody liking to rub shoulders
with the parish fustian, the paupers' abode
was as secluded as the gentleman's.

Aurea, preferring her own society to
that of the other individual whose professional
boxes were loading the omnibus,

stepped out briskly. She had asked her
\ay at the station, and soon stood in front
of the iron gates of the Union, through the
bars of which might be seen the tiny
cottages built for the old married couples,
surrounding the formal square of grass.
An old pauper stood as guardian of the
gate, blinking at the level rays of the
evening sun falling upon the brass bell-handle,
which he was polishing with a
piece of rag. At his feet on the paving-stone
lay an ancient dog of a mongrel
breed  half drover's dog, half lurcher.

The dog's coat looked almost as much
an accidental investiture as did his
master's ; and further, it was very ragged
and matted with dirt. His nose, browned
with years, was buried in his paws. He
was not asleep, but his whole attitude
expressed an utter dejection and a want of
purpose in life more absolute than the
man's.

Union dog ' was written all over his
manger covering, and the opprobrium of
the name had rendered the muscles of his
tail flaccid, had strangled the bark in his
throat, and had changed his growl into
the most pathetic canine imitation of a
groan. Fancy being the dog of a house
where you're forced, on pain of instant
dismissal, to admit the filthiest tramp and
the most disreputable casual at all hours of
the day without remonstrance ; and this
without anv variety, for no one ever took
the dog out for a walk ! Who goes for
walks in workhouse boots, unless it is to
walk oiF with them ? and this dog had not
even the spirit to discharge himself. His
independence and self-respect were fatally
broken.

The man's history and the dog's were
very similar ; but the man had ceased to
suffer, and the dog had not.

Step by step both had descended, owing

to ill-breeding, bad habits, and questionable
company, imtil now, time having frozen
the sources of vice in each, both alike were
equally tolerated, for the semblance of protection
they gave to the gate. But the
dog's fate was worse than the man's ; the
man still had an object of interest left in
the Action of that solitary knob. If any
visitor attempted to pull it, he immediately
hurried up to forestall the intention ; but
he was not afraid of Aurea, because he had
this treasure safely enveloped in his own
pocket-handkerchief.

The brilliancy of that brass knob, which
outshone every other knob in Cutthorpe,
cheered the evening of the human life ;
but the dog felt himself as useless to the
world as the world was to him. The
man's intellect was weakened, but he still
had a theory of the universe left, although
it was all comprised in a brass bell-handle ;
but the dog's spirit was broken.

VOL. II. 28

Aurea Chapel was fond of dogs, and she
gave this one a kind word, as she stopped
to ask his master which was the nearest
road to Slumsby ; but neither man nor
dog appeared to hear. She repeated the
question, when the decrepit porter jerked
his thumb over his shoulder, by the action
referring her to an old woman in the workhouse
dress who was hastening; back to the
house as fast as rheumatic bones would
carry her.

The way to Slumsby ? Why, it's easy
enough there ; it's another matter to get
back when you're turned of eighty-one,
and must say yer prayers on gruel before
you go to bed on a bag o' chaff. Look 'ere
come and stand alongside o' me ; follow
my finger, by the church o' which you
see the spire, through the market-place,
and along the street. As you come by
the factory-gates you turn and keep right
alongside the left-hand lane till you see

a breadth o' water, running even with
a middle-sized fence  that's " Diggory's
Dyke." Then you'll see a house with farm-buildings
and peat-stacks, standing a way
off across the fields  that's Sodden Farm.
Sodom," my poor old man always named
it, out of the Book, for " a city of the
plain " it is, and its doom may well be the
same. Keep right on through the village,
and there you are.'

Much of all this was unintelligible to
Aurea ; but she did not turn away. Since
she had been living down in Devonshire
she had grown used to the loquacity of
simple country people. Moreover, there
was a brightness in this old woman's eye,
a healthful ruddiness in her complexion,
and, in spite of her fourscore years, an
alacrity and force in her speech and gesture
which made it pleasant to hear her talk.
Aurea felt very lonely also, and unhappy,
and speech with anyone was some comfort.

282

Whereabouts in Slumsby shall I find
the Yicarage ? I want to see Mrs. Smith,
the Yicar's sister.'

Eh, you're going to the Yicarage, are
you ? As lady's-maid, maybe. You area
stranger in these parts, then ? Here's
your box ? On the 'bus, I reckon. You
should ha' gone with it. Yhat's the use
o' walking when you can be paid to ride ?
Yell, would you be so kind as to give a
message to Mrs. Smith for me ? Says
you : " Ma'am, I met Mrs. Daily in the
road  Grandmother Daily you may say,
and welcome  and she's wishful for you
to know as her daughter-in-law, her son
James's wife, has got a girl this morning." '

Yes, I'll tell her. Good-afternoon,' said
Aurea indifferently.

But, miss, that's the pudding without
the plums ; stop a minute, if you'd be so
good. Mrs. Smith takes a deal of interest
in Adam  that's my biggest grandson, you

know  and if you'd please to let her know
as his father shut Adam out o' doors last
night, and turned him over to the tile-yard
at six o'clock this morning ; and I saw the
poor lad in his dinner-hour all torn and
bruised, leaning; against the railing's o' the
church as if he hadn't a friend in life.
They've served the poor lad shameful
among 'em. They're the roughest lot of
men and boys in there as could be found
in the kingdom. You say this to Mrs.
Smith : " Ma'am, they'll be the death o'
the poor fellow, unless he's taken out of
that  Grandmother Daily says so, and she
ought to know ; and she prays you on her
bended knees to save him !" '

The old woman's eager appeal scarcely
diverted Aurea's thoughts for a moment from
the anxious uncertainties of her own trying
position. She couldn't care about the fate
of this unknown boy ; but the habit of courteous
response covered her real impatience.

Ashy didn't you tell his father ?' she
asked.

My dear young lady, come you get to
my time o' day, with the father o'
thirteen to your son, you'll happen maybe
find, as I did, that by the bed of birth or
by the bed of death you may speak till
you're shamed o' the sound o' your own
voice, but a man's will 'ill speak louder.
It's my son's will as Adam should go in
the tile-yard, and so it was forced to be ; but
Adam's beginning too late. There's eighty
men and lads down in that yard, and everyone
o' they'll be bound to have the reason
out of him why he didn't come before ; and
when he's given 'em that, they'll follow it
up by " Why's he come now ?" There's
been a grudge between Cutthorj)e and
Slumsby lads this many a year j they'll
never take kindly down there to one that's
been baked in another kiln. Adam'll take
his own part with the best of his age, but

eighty to one is just murder. I shan't
close my eyes o' nights for fear about the
lace ] and him a nice ell-groT\TL fellow,
with legs and arms well drawer out ; and
none o' your slouching hod - bearing
shoulders, but holds himself like a soldier ;
and his eyes is as blue as if they were a
baby's, and they looks you as straight in
the face. Adam's a lad as 'ud be a consolation
to any mother, be she low or lady ;
and as nice a head o' hair as your own,
only neater-like, and a bit more natural in
colour. [Mrs. Smith, she feels with me on
Adam as he's the pick o' the Daily lot ; and
I do beg and implore you, my dear young
lady, give her a word o' warning before
that devil's gang down there have cowed
his spirit and broken this heart, and maybe
sent him home to his mother bleeding and
bruised on a shutter. For my coffin the
wood's dry ; but for his, it ought to be
green.'

136 THE Daily OF SODDEN FEN.

It would be much better for you to
come with me yourself to the lady. I
must be going on now, and you might show
me the way.'

Ah ! my dear, you're young and free.
Once I was the same ; now I'm baffled
and driven as I would not be by others.
It may be for the best; they served St.
Peter so. They ring us all in at six
o'clock. There's the bell ; it's swinging
now for supper. They send us all to bed
at seven, as if we were the fowls, to lie
blinking in the broad daylight for the sun
in our eyes, and not for sleeps. It's to save
feeding us over again. Yes ! I'm coming.
Good-night. You won't forget?'

Young; women with that dazzling shade
o' hair mostly ha' memories no better nor
hollanders,' she sighed to herself as she
turned in ; and Aurea walked on, naturally
thinking more of the directions for her
road than of the peculiarities of this old

woman, who evidently regarded a chance
encounter T\ith a stranger as an opportunity
specially arranged for the ventilation of her
own family grievances. The type was not
uncommon.

Neither had Aurea eyes to perceive the
strange picturesqueness of the main street
of Cutthorjje. It could not matter to her
just now that the houses and shops
straggled irregularly on either side of a
roadway so broad that, as the older inhabitants
boasted, eight coaches could drive
abreast down the centre of the town,
although to enter or to leave it at either
end each must go singly; for the church
at the one end and the factory at the
other divided the broad street into two
narrow ones. At the Weyland Arms, as
many of the townspeople could tell  for
Cutthorpe had only had a railway station
for twenty years  it was fine to see the
magnificent circles which the width of

street tempted the coachmen to make
before wheeling round at the inn door.
To take as Avide a circuit as possible,
and yet to pull up with the fore-hoofs of
the leaders in a line with the central point
of union of the semicircular flight of stone
steps leading up to the mn-door  this was a
feat without which no coachman would
have been held to have earned his liquor.
But all that was changed now.

As Aurea passed the Weyland Arms the
solitary 'bus was setting down its commercial
passenger, and both driver and
ostler stared curiously at the girlish figure
arriving by the train they had met, yet
requiring no assistance from them, bringing
no box for them to carry, and not obviously
bound for any shopkeeper's or gentleman's
house in the place.

On one side of the street, after crossing
the market-place, the pavement was roofed
over by colonnades projecting from the

lower stories of the houses ; these served to
shelter at once the shopkeepers' wares and
their customers from sun and rain, and the
cover was gladly welcomed by Aurea. The
houses themselves were irregular and old-fashioned,
various in height, in design, and
in date, but all more or less telling of
bygone years. Some had windows with
peaked gables and leaded frameworks ;
most had sloping roofs tiled in dull redbrick
octagonal, such as were baked in the
local furnaces two hundred years before.
These furnished nesting - places for the
swifts which careered in dizzy circles,
keeping up for endless generations a
cheerful clamour over the heads of the
people, as they were born and married
and died in the solid houses beneath. And
the broken lines of human life insensibly
seemed drawn out into fuller and completer
lengths when spun beneath the exuberant
life which showed above them no pauses

for clianoe or for renewing*. There is this
advantage in living in an old place over
a new one : the new suggests the perpetual
change and shift of circumstances ; the torn
and ravelled threads of life float in view of
all comers ] men and women become lodgers
rather than inhabitants, live their scrap of
time out beneath the new slates, and go,
few know why nor whither. But in these
old country towns, throuodi which the
stream of life flows with the tranquil
current of a river, changes come indeed,
but come insensibly, with no appearance
of disruption, no shock to the sense of
continuity. The course of human exist -
hence is pursued below; the swifts whirl
and cry above. Curious eyes, no doubt,
prying into the mysteries of the kingdom
on the roofs, mioht detect changes in the
individuals there, just as the parents have
yielded their places to the children in the
street. So obvious a fact needs no stating.

But to a wider survey the life is the same
above and below, just as the river is the
same whatever drops flow into or are discharged
from it. Men and women, children
and birds, all seem to float on together
upon the mighty current, which may fall,
indeed, over weirs, and yet not break.

There was no plate-glass in Cutthorpe.
The size of the panes in the shop-fronts
differed, but was what it always had been.
You painted the outside of your shop once
in three years if you lived in Cutthorpe;
but never with paint of staring colours,
because it would have been held a vulgar
way of trying to strove your goods superior
to your neighbour's, when red and blue
paint were not in themselves dearer than
dull grey or yellow. The doctor was the
only man who had defaced his house in
modern style; but having no goods inside
to speak for themselves, it was universally
felt he might be pardoned for taking this

mode of advertising, inferentially, the freshness
of his opinions. His house was nearly
the last in the street, and when Aurea had
passed it she came to the factory.

The factory was one for working in
porcelain, for making encaustic tiles, tesselated
pavements and so forth ; the clays
being' obtained from the valuable beds
which extended for miles around Cutthorpe,
and which had been famous for centuries.
In the chalky district surrounding, admixtures
of clay were many and various ;
fossil remains were frequently found, and
the curiosity of the geologist and the cupidity
of the worker were equally excited by
striated stones picked out of the ' reach
clay ' or boulder, by fragments of wood or
impressions of leaves from forests anciently
buried, by fresh water shells and other toys
which ]either Earth hides for her children.

Inside the factory beautiful slabs and
inlaid pottery were turned out by the aid of

powerful engines and the hands of clever
workmen ; but a few hundred yards farther
on, in the tile-yard, the roughest
work was still done upon the wet clay as
it was freshly dug from the beds. Here it
was still moulded by hand as in primitive
times, or at best with the aid of the
simplest machinery. It was here that the
lads of the district served their apprenticeship
to the roughest work, and it was only
after their powers had been severely tested
that they ever found themselves promoted
to the skilled labour of the factory. Many
never rose from their laborious employment
of digging and weathering clay, of ripening
and slinging it, and kneading it by hand,
to the very different and far more delicate
operations which went on in the factory.
Yet, for a lad who hojDcd to rise, there was
endless scope for ambition in this Lincolnshire
tile-yard ; beginning as Adam Daily
that morning had begun, with the roughest

and most elementary treatment of mere
lumps of clay, which stuck to his hands
and skinned his fingers, they might gradually
advance by all the successive stages of
a steep incline until their day's work became
at once dainty, skilled, and highly
artistic, in the finishing-rooms where porcelains,
beautiful as pictures, and lovely as
works of art, went out to the London
houses which had supplied the designs.

But such ambition had never fired Adam's
soul. His family were a family of agriculturists.
His passion was for the land.
The commercial instinct had never been
planted in him, his own father had never
risen above the handling of rough red tiles,
and had been but a few years in the factory.
That flowers and sunsets were beautiful,
that they seemed to say something to him
which no human voice had ever said, Adam
knew well ; that when he could lie face
downwards in the grass gaining new insight

into the mysterious harmonies of colon' by
the altered lines of vision, whilst the
shadows played hide-and-seek with each
other and the wind kissed his cheek, he
forgot that he was often hungry and always
of no particular consequence  that Adam
had learnt. But that Trade, laying a grimy,
soil-stained finger in the sweet fair palm of
Art, might equally be guided by that dainty
handmaiden into the kingdom where he
worshipped untaught  that was for Adam
an open secret ungues sed at, hidden as yet.
That all ways might lead into the same
glorious temple, that all works might blend
with the same inner worship of the soul,
how indeed should Adam know, who as
yet knew so little, had as yet thought
so little, of his own life or the lives of
others ?

The story which he had heard of noble
endurance and of courageous self-sacrifice
had seemed to Adam part of the beautiful

VOL. Ji. 29

things of the material world ; the very

words which the lady had spoken rang in

his ears with the song of the birds in the

school-house garden and with the chime of

the bells from the church belfry. History,

poetry, and romance were all embodied for

him in the story of Diggory Daily; but, as

beautiful ideas, might have remained forever

enclosed in his own mind, instead of

springing aloft as bright-winged ideals

compelling him to follow, without the

painful experiences of his first day in the

tile-yard. In the aching pulses of his ovn

heart, amidst brutal jests and well-aimed

blows, Adam felt the death-pangs of his

martyred kinsman more keenly than his

imagination could ever have taught him to

realize them. Thus pain furnished the

motive-force of aspiration.

All the morning he had been employed
in slinging clay  that is, in cutting it into
slices with a string, in order that the stones,

of which it is here especially full, may fall
out before it is passed on to the moulder ;
but this operation is by no means so easy a
one as it sounds. The stones are deeply
embedded in the masses of damp, half-kneaded
clay, the string often fails to catch
them, and they have to be probed for with
careful fingers. On the other hand, the
strings is sure to cut through the flesh of
any untrained manipulator during his first
painful hour. Then with lacerated hands,
with fingers bleeding and nails raw to the
quick, the stones must be felt for and dug
out of the close-compacted, unyielding
lumps.

Hands early accustomed to this painful
usage soon harden and adapt themselves
to their task; for this purpose Adam should
have been put to it sooner. But he could
bear pain as well as another, and that a
man should show the scars of work or war
or thought is matter for no maudlin

292

sympathy. Victories won in the kingdom
of mind or of matter bend the back of the
student or of the peasant. The bodily m-
juries of the mechanic, no less than the
prouder wounds of the soldier, bear equal
testimony to the fact that the man's body
has been his slave and not his master.
Mere pain, as such, is too small a thing
for pity : rather let a man suffer if by such
a baptism he may escape from the thraldom
of ' miserable aims which end in self ;' rather
let him grow old with suffering endured or
maimed with services performed, than by
secluding himself from the common risks
or dangerous chances of life, treasure in a
silken skin the making of a selfish fop, or
guard in a rounded circumference the
material of a sensual citizen.

Adam was no coward nor shirker. He
had shrunk from the tile-yard ] but once he
was there, he would do his best. Hurtful
things must be undertaken, laborious tasks

must be accomplished; and why not by him
as well as by another ? There is this
advantage in being brought up to feel yourself
of no particular consequence, that if in
the inevitable conscription of life you find
yourself to have drawn a bad number, you
seek to purchase no substitute  find it difficult,
indeed, to conceive that exemption
marches with self-respect, or decent regard
to the common weal.

Circumstances may crush the framework
of us all, men and fish may be over-matched;
but a man as well as a stickleback may
measure himself against an obstacle, and to
the man at least it is given to prefer the
death of the victor to the existence of the
deserter. Adam had the making of such a
hero in him; but he was no more free than
many a wiser man from the delusion that the
exercise of choice, as to the direction of
duty, may still leave scope for its discipline.


He did not shrink from the chances of
cold, fatigue, hunger, and labour ; but then
he would endure all these things outside the
limits of the tile-yard. He would accept
them all  yes, certainly  but under well-known
conditions; nth the scent of green
fields in his nostrils, with the strife of rushes
and the ripple of waters in his ears, with
the soft loveliness of Fen landscape in his
eyes, with the turf beneath his feet, and
solitude around him. His limbs misht
ache  oh yes  but it must be with digging
in the loamy earth ; his back might break,
but it must be with carrying loads of peat
or thatch ; his fingers might bleed, but it
must be with thorns, the thorns of the
roses he had budded, not with stones bedded
in damp masses of adhesive clay. Love
lightens labour, and for Adam hitherto love
and duty had gone hand in hand. Xow he
must assign to them a wider signification.
Hitherto Duty had shown herself to him ina

form easy to accept; now he must cleave
to her inner loveliness hidden beneath repulsive
conditions.

The lesson found him ready. He stood
to his task bravely. Bullied and abused, a
mark for brutal jests and for oaths of the
coarsest, he strove with the sodden masses
of clay; did his best with them and handed
them on, over and over again to have them
rejected, wilfully, unnecessarily, and cruelly
flung back at him, simply to get him into
trouble with the foreman, simply because he
was Clumsy-bred, and because the decent
honesty of his speech and manners offended
the depraved taste of this savage democracy.
He had no chance of getting on with his
work, no prospect of really improving,
of acquiring greater smoothness and
dexterity of manipulation. Every obstacle
that malicious ingenuity could devise was
put in his way, every discouragement given
him; on every side big boys and lads, with

less fellow-feeling than brutes, tormented
and hindered the new comer.

Before he had entered the tile-yard
Adam's dawning worship of the Christian
ideal of self-sacrifice, as illustrated by the
conduct of his ancestor, had warred with
the more Jewish morality of his practice.
Xot to hit a fellow again when he hit him,
might be to be a Christian, but certainly
was to be a coward. What, then, was the
explanation of Diggory's conduct ? And
how far would Adam be justified in letting
it govern his own ? Action, however, as
in most other cases, summarily dealt with
his doubts.

All the morning Adam had carefully
mastered himself ; overt acts of injustice he
had let pass unheeded ; mean persecuting
tricks he had seemed not to feel ; cruel
pastimes which made him their victim he
had not resented  such an initiation he
knew every stranger must undergo who

:>o

came fresh to the tile-yard. At mid-day
he escaped for an hour, but he was too
troubled and heartsick to eat. He
wandered off alone, thankful to be quit of
his brutal companions. His feet, following
his thoughts, led him to the entrance of
Cutthorpe Church. The heavy wooden
doors were flung back, as it was summer ;
but through the inner grating his eyes
rested with a sense of repose upon the dim
outlines of the chancel. It was there that
his grandmother passed him, and was
shocked by his altered appearance, as she
went on her way to visit his mother ; but
Adam, absorbed in his own reflections, did
not even see her go by. His aching head
was pressed against the iron bars, his
weary figure almost clinging to the railings
for support. Once again, and this time
more vividly than before, the tragedy of
two hundred years ago was being reacted
before him. Once more the church was

filled with people  once more the victim
stood upon the pavement  once more the
brutal crowd pressed round, and one man,
powerless against numbers, fell ; only this
time, instead of a rebel in armour, the
shouts of the furious Fen-men, and the
clashing of the horse's hoofs, Adam saw
the forms and faces of the brick-makers,
and shuddered at the oaths which mingled
with the groaning of the pug-mill.

He returned to the yard in the afternoon
spiritless and dejected, not caring to strive
any longer, in a state of physical depression
from fatigue and hunger, out of which he
could be roused only by fresh stimulus ;
he had not Ions: to wait for it. He was
stooping in a slow mechanical fashion topick
up a lump of clay which had just been
flung back at him by the moulder with a
curse, when suddenly the fellow at the
mill aimed a huge unshapely mass of
boulder full at his head. It struck him,

and he fell, stunned for the moment, cuttings
his face severely upon the heap of sharp
stones. His tormentors gathered round,
half in curiosity to see the result, half in
mischief to bully him now he was down.
For a second after he rose to his feet, Adam
staggered, uncertain where he was, or what
had happened ; the next he had surprised
them all by hitting out vigorously to right
and to left, in a defence as quick and
instinctive as it was useless. On they
came by the dozen, assaulting him in a
bullying backhanded manner, and still
Adam fought recklessly, beating off his
assailants as though they had been a swarm
of wasps.

Down at last, overpowered by numbers,
streaming with blood, his clothing torn,
Adam lay conquered but triumphant.
Protected by an unprincipled foreman, who
interfered only in time to save his own
character in the event of possible consequences,

Adam was left under cover of one
of the sheds to come to himself if he could.
Then he again remembered his chosen hero.
For a short time he had nothing to do but
to think. ' Why did not Diggory also
fight ? It was no good to think about
numbers  eighty to one or eight hundred 
when the impulse of self-defence is strong
it is also blind ; it was no use saying it
was because he was in a church  good
places do not glorify mean deeds. What
then ? Why, that the man's heart was
broken in that he suffered at the hands of
his friends, of those who had been to him
as his own flesh and blood, for whom he
had already given more than bodily life,
the services of his mind, the purposes of his
soul. But these ill-conditioned men and
lads were not Adam's friends, and his
sturdy heart was not broken ; and if he hit
them back bravely they might serve
Robert and Noah better if ever they came

to this evil pass. They might even learn
to respect the name of a Daily, and to think
twice before they stirred up the pluck of ' a
Slumsby lodger.'

Thus Adam rose to a larger comprehension
of sacrifice as expressed by the spirit,
rather than followed in the letter ; and with
the same courage in his heart which had
taught his ancestor to die, rose up to live,
to gather himself together with fresh spirit
for renewed efforts, for further contempt of
sain, for steadier efforts of endurance, until
the trying day was done and the big bell
rano\ between six and seven in the evenings,
to release the factory-hands from their
work.

A FURTHER CATASTROPHE.

HERE were few stragglers about
the town as Aurea passed
through it on the quiet summer
evening. Such as there were glanced at her
and passed on ; some just noticed the colour
of her hair, but decided nothing about her,
since golden hair leads to no definite conclusions,
and can no more be relied upon
as a sample of hidden value than can those
bright streaks in foreign streams which
often serve to gild a prospectus and to

delude the seekers after sold into vainly
digging for the precious-ore.

A big waggon-load of rye-grass was
being driven on to the town weighing-stand
in front of the factory-gates ; the
horses J objecting to the grating of the
wheels on the iron tables, were plunging
violently. Not understanding the proceeding,
they might at least, one would
think, have fallen back upon the time-honoured
consideration that the thing
was done because ' it always had been ;'
a form of reasoning which, being
a daily comfort to hundreds of human
beings, might surely have sufficed to
allay the anxieties of a couple of cart-horses.


Aurea stood and watched them for a
moment ; not because she was at all interested
in the progress of agriculture as
represented by the weight of rye-grass
carried from the lands of Sodden Farm,

and recorded by that ancient index, the
town weis'hin Of tables ; not because she cared
to watch the heavy awkward plunges of the
horses and the equally awkward movements
of Mr. Smith's waggoners, but because of
the flocks of pigeons which strutted round,
always ready to pick up the grains perpetually
dropped in this quarter from
waofofon-loads of corn, and from horses'
nose-bags. Aurea adored doves and doted
upon pigeons. At her aunt's house down
in Devonshire she not infrequently walked
about with two mild-eyed creatures of the
sort nestling against her hair. They were
soft and warm to caress, their colouring
made a pleasing contrast to her own, and
admiration bestowed upon their silver plumage
was apt to glance at her shining
charms.

These common pigeons therefore carried
her thoughts back to the home which she
had so lately left. What an odd thought it

was that here she was standing all alone in
Cutthorpe, where she was not of the slightest
consequence to anyone, where nobody
even knew her name ; and all the while three
hundred miles away it was her wedding-day,
and the flowers on all those arches
could not have faded yet ! There her name
was in every mouth, her disappearance the
one absorbing topic of debate. Here she
knew not a creature, and it was very dull ;
there she knew everybody, and it was very
dreadful. Had they sent the school-children
home, she wondered ; and what were her
uncle and aunt saying? Had their neighbour,
Mrs. Apers, been very spiteful about
her ; and if so, had George taken her part ?
Had he told them where she was gone, or
did he keep his own counsel ?

In any case, what was to become of her
now? Aurea felt that she could not livelong
in this country town, watching the
pigeons and listening to the swifts. Such

VOL. II. 30

an existence would soon become intolerable.
In her partial judgment Cutthorpe was a
sleepy place. She did not know, and would
not have cared to learn, that the apparent
monotony of life there was due, not to the
stagnation, but to the strength and regularity
of the tide of commercial interest
which set that way. The inhabitants of
Cutthorpe were in the full stream of steady
old-fashioned prosperity. It was all very
well for outsiders, who found themselves
floating like corks on occasional eddies, to
Lob up and down and look active ; these
solid tradesmen and farmers were borne
along above eddies and currents full in
mid channel, with an onward motion so
regular that it mio'ht look like beings 

o o

calmed until tested by methods of comparison
which proved it to be advance of
the strongest and surest kind. From the
back parlour of his shop, as from the helm
of a vessel, every man of these comfortable

traders directed the conduct of his ship;
slept a good deal, but with one eye open,
and never, as the French have it, lay upon
both ears at once ; appeared to make no
further effort than to order his subordinates
to set the sails to catch the breeze, and yet
the progress of the most frantic sculler
could not compare with his.

The factory was greatly to bless for this
satisfactory state of things, and therefore, to
dig for deeper reasons, the local disposition
of the earth's surface which provided the
inhabitants with the right kind of subsoil.
But although they always taught their
children to say grace before the gift of
slaughtered sheep, yet thanks were never
known to be given for the clay from any
nursery - table in Cutthorpe. So inconsistent
are the customs about which we
never think at all, lest we should be making
too free with intelligence. Thought, like a
well-broken horse, wore blinkers in 



thorpe, and expression followed after,
muzzled like an unsafe dog; these restraints
having, by inherited usage, come to be
regarded as inseparable insignia of respectability.


Aurea herself, standing with her back to
the factory-gates, formed no exception to
the general rule by which mental effort of
any unusual kind was declined in Cut-thorpe,
upon the ground that it was no
good thinking.' A facile excuse for irrelevant
action made up in her case three parts
of indisposition and one part of incapacity.
Into all the intricacies of her situation
Aurea did not attempt to penetrate. She
was not capable of taking a wide survey of
either past action or present consequence,
but she was just calculating that the train
which was to have carried her to London asa
bride with her husband beside her was
getting into the Great Western Station,
when suddenly all collected thought was

driven from her mind by an instantaneous
flinging back of the great gates behind her,
accompanied by the deafening clangour of a
monstrous bell pealing somewhere up above
her head. In the huge brick barracks they
called the Factory the agitation of the big
bell was immense. An alarm of fire or war
could not have been more startling. The
pigeons whirled up in the air. Aurea was
less fortunate. In an instant she was
swept on one side, hurried, jostled, and
nearly thrown down by an 'outpouring
stream of young men and lads, boys and
girls, flooding the pavements and overflowing
into the road, with noisy jests and
uproarious elbowing and laughter. They
came and came. There seemed to be no
end to them. In reality there were three
hundred, and Aurea was like a little
stick in a stream, torn and twisted and
caught in the reeds, unable to get herself
free or to see any end to her struggles.

This same noisy bell for dismissal found
poor weary Adam in no particular hurry to
go. He waited until the last of his companions
had put on his coat and quitted the
brick-field, anxious only to escape association
in the street with those who had rendered
his work a warfare all day. He had
to seek for a lodging for himself, as he knew
that his place was already filled in the
cottage, and he determined to seek it in
Cutthorpe ; for he would not shock his
mother by reappearing in Slumsby with
two black eyes and a cut face, hands as raw
as beef, and clothing soiled and torn.

Appearances were against him, and Adam
was not the first conqueror who has had
reason to fear being mistaken for a criminal.
His victory had been moral, his defeat had
been physical. His mother would be
miserable if she saw him in his present
plight, and his father would say something
characteristic, but certainly not encouraging:

probably that ' eighty to one was fools'
worlds.' So it was to his grandmother that
his thoughts immediately turned. She had
an understanding as good as his father's,
together with sympathies as active as his
mother's. This evening he could not see
her, because by order of the Guardians she
would be sent to bed at seven ; but he would
go and find a lodging for himself as near to
her as possible.

He had scarcely got into the main street,
with this intention directing his steps, when
he saw a thick knot of factory-hands sway-ins:
backwards and forwards in front of the
great gates. The crowd was composed of
those that worked in the building, skirted
by Adam's foes from the yard, and all
together appeared to be jostling and
pressing some object invisible in their
midst.

But that he heard the cry of a woman,
Adam would have avoided the fray, and

indeed he took it for granted at first that
they were merely larking with some rough
girl of their own set, whose outcries were
part of the fun ; but the cry was repeated,
with entreaties for help, in tones shrill with
unaffected terror. Adam pressed nearer,
and saw in the midst a girl of very different
make to the coarse factory-hands  a maiden
with wide-opened, frightened eyes and a
mass of golden hair. Her hat had been
knocked off, and her dress was soiled with
dust as though she had fallen on the pavement.
The lads were trpng to keep her a
prisoner, amused at her terror and at her
frantic endeavours to escape. Boyhood is
unfeeling, and they were treating her as
badly, but no worse, than they would have
treated a half drowned kitten, or a draggled
puppy that had lost its master, and with
him its self-respect. The girls, who were
encouraging the cruel sport with laughter,
had probably a very good notion that the

3oung lady was in genuine earnest dreadfully
scared; but the big lads themselves
were cruel in jest rather than in intention,
more than half thinking, probably, that the
young lady had her share in the fun.
Rough horseplay and teasing were their
usual method of making things lively for
the factory-girls when they met in the
road, and they acted herein but after their
kind.

Aurea might have passed through the
town unmolested any day in the year when
the factory-hands were dismissed from their
work, in company with any companion or
even alone, had there been nothing forsaken
about her appearance. Not one of the lads
would have thrown a stone at a doo who
was brisk and fresh and out with his master,
or even at a dog that was out upon his own
account if he looked as though he had paid
the tax and knew his business, whilst not
one of the crowd would have refrained from

clicking; a stone at his tail if he looked
homeless, draggled or scared. * Hit him
hard, he's got no friends,' is a generally
applicable principle, covering alike the pelting
of a manger cur and the terrifying of a
nervous girl if she has anything abnormal
about her appearance.

All might have been 'vvell if only A urea
could have stood her ground and kept her
self-possession ; but unfortunately the unexpected
rush took her off her feet ; she
caught her dress in the hinges of the gate,
and was held fast by it. When she tried to
get free, the crowd flowing past her knocked
her down. Everyone knows how difficult
it is to get up again if once you are down ina
squeeze; hustled and jostled on every side,
covered with dust, her skirt purposely held
in the hinges of the gate by a mischievous
lad, her frantic struggles to rise only
attracted fresh tormentors, and her growing
terror heightened the sport. Her cries for

help seemed at the first only to make matters
worse by teaching the rough lads their
power. Soon, however, they procured hera
friend in the big sturdy lad with rough
clay stained clothing and hands raw from the
day's unwonted task, who was fighting his
vigorous way to her side. All the provocation
that Adam had received that day went
to strengthen his arm anew when he struck
out to free a passage for the unfortunate
young lady. The surprise of the mischievous
cluster aided him in the first few
moments; the boy who held Aurea's dress
in his grasp was utterly unprepared for the
blow which sent him sprawling over the
threshold of the gateway, and the others,
who had better opportunities for thought,
decided that this must be a friend of the
girl's and a fellow-stranger. He was unknown
to the centre of the group, but those
that fringed the crowd knew him for their
late companion. Anyway, a girl that had

got some one to strike out for her like
that was disqualified from affording anymore
fun. A joke was a joke, but hard
hitting spoilt the sport and changed the
spirit of the scene.

Eun, miss, run !' Adam cried eagerly.
You can get through 'em where I came in.'

And Aurea ran, this time successfully.
She rather wondered that she was neither
hindered nor pursued ; but when, out of
breath with flight, she ventured to look back,
she saw that the crowd was no longer concerning
itself with her existence. Its
attention was intently and eagerly absorbed,
and the nucleus of energy was in the centre,
round which a swaying mass grew compacter
every moment. Something was
going forward there around her rescuer
which she could not see, and to say truly
did not care to see. Nothing had distinguished
the lad who delivered her from the
group of her persecutors. She took it for

granted that lie was a trifle more tender of
heart than the rest, although, if anything,
rather more disreputable in appearance.
Moreover, the poor girl was shaken and
tired sick with excitement and fear; her
scared mind possessed only with the notion
of hurrying on to find George Apers's sister,
to be sheltered, and dusted, and fed, and
cared for ; to tell all her story, and to have
it sweetened vith sympathy. No further
obstacles lay in her path ; she paused but
once to ask her way, and in less than half
an hour found herself standing in the
ivy-covered porch of Slumsby Vicarage,
and ringing at the open doorway with the
determination of one who would not wait
to enter; could not wait, indeed, for the
rising agitation that possessed her, that
made her heart beat and her limbs tremble,
and shook her so that she could scarcely
speak.

CHAPTER YL

PARENT AND CHILD.

SMITH had found his
daughter-in-law, and he was
quite miserable. The attempted
fusion of two saddened lives had not
brought the new joy that Jessie had
fondly hoped.

She had gone down to the farm about
ten o'clock in the morning to carry her
news to Mr. Smith. He was out, down at
the bottom of the Fifty-acre, superintending
the carting of rye-grass. The housekeeper
had shown her into the dreary parlour, and

had sent a boy to fetch the master. Meanwhile,
being inquisitive as to the motive of
the lady's visit, she had pulled up the
blinds as an excuse for conversation ; her
own, chiefly. Mr. Smith arrived, damp
with labour and haste, looking shrunken
and shabby in his working clothes. By no
possibility could anyone, critically eyeing
him as as he stood before Jessie, hive
flattered the farmer with the courteous
prefix of gentleman ; that title could only
belong to the churchwarden in his Sunday
clothes and in his tall hat  hitherto worn
in Mrs. Smith's presence. In his weekday
clothing, so his housekeeper felt, Mr.
Smith was not even up to the standard
of his own parlour, let alone to the level of
any lady's company. Mr. Smith himself
was painfully conscious of the same fact ;
but Jessie saw nothing of all this. She
could not get outside their mutual relations,
and so judge him as any vulgar spectator

miocht have done. Her imagination clung;
to the tender, pitiful heart of the man, to
the lonely soul of the old father, forsaken
in age and pining in solitude. She
had come there fancying that, as parent
and child, they might weep together tears of
sorrow melting into joy ; that, meeting
together, they might tell over from the
beginning each to each the story of their
absent dear one, and so, from two separate
but kindred memories, might win some
speaking semblance of his cherished personality.
Each had so fondly loved, and
each had so fully pardoned. It had not
occurred to Jessie to reflect that for this
sort of sympathetic intercourse the freedom
of unquestioned intellectual equality was
needed  that to secure such converse as
she had longed for, activity of imagination,
sensitiveness of feeling, and educated
subtlety of expression must all combine,
whilst the secret consciousness of mental

inferiority on either side would be fatal to
its spontaneity ; but Mr. Smith felt this,
although he could not have expressed it.
He sat on an awkward chair straight before
her. All the simple dignity and natural
freedom of his earlier manner in her society
had entirely Vanished. Then he knew who
and what each was. He was the churchwarden,
she was the Vicar's sister. Now
he was the farmer, and this lady said she
was his daughter-in-law. She told him so,
and he did not doubt it. He had no
prompting to disbelieve her. Genuine
conviction easily followed words so earnest,
so touching in their half entreaty. Yet
never till now had Jessie dreamed how
hard the truth would be to telL

Surely he must have understood her
when they walked together by the decoy?
She had called him then by the name of
"father." Surely he could not have

VOL. II. 31

been altogether surprised at this?' she
pleaded.

Yes, he was utterly and completely
surprised

He had looked for his daughter-in-law in
the gipsies' camp ; he had found her in the
Vicarage, and he was dumb. Mr. Smith
was at once too humble and too proud to
accept the changed aspect of affairs with
ease. He would gladly have found a
daughter beneath him in station; sadly he
met her in one whom he held to be above
him. Mr. Smith was old-fashioned enough
to recognise both spiritual and temporal masters.
His beliefs might have been summed
up in a simple descending scale. First,
as a man, he believed in God ; secondly,
as a subject, in the Queen ; thirdly, as a
Conservative elector, in Sir Crowsby Wayland
; fourthly, as a churchwarden, in the
Bishop of the diocese ; fifthly, as a
parishioner, in the Vicar of Slumsby. In

this particular instance, also, the Yicar's
sister had trodden closely on her brother's
heels in the region of his respect.

It was not, however, humility alone, but
also pride which kept Mr. Smith unwillingly
silent when Jessie anxiously
waited for a fatherly welcome. It had
been the habit of his humble life to distinguish
between ladies and women  he would
have classed his own daughter and the
Yicar's sister differently; but he could
conceive of no comfort at home for a manif
the women of his family had any other
standard of mind or manners than that
furnished by the example of the master
of the house. He, who so willingly rendered
the service of respect where he felt
it to be due in his outside relations, was
accustomed to demand the like tribute from
those by whom he was more immediately
surrounded. The notion of the poor
daughter-in-law picked like a blackberry

312

from the hedgerow had all the attractiveness
of familiarity to him, and he was too
loyal to kiss the lips of a new-born hope
before he had closed the eyes of the old
one which had kept him company for
years.

By his fireside he had pictured a comfortable,
homely woman; something of a
cook on Monday, not quite a lady on
Sunday, but just so much of a lady as a
good black silk gown and his own position
might make her. Gratitude and love for
his protection might, he had believed, have
trained the gipsy girl into no bad imitation
of the thing that he had dreamt of ; but as
well try to make an apple-clipping out of
a pineapple, he thought, as to provide him
with such a daughter in the person of this
new daughter-in-law. He did not relish the
notion of a superior lady, who had been
born and reared in such a different station
of life to his own, coming to live with him

in his home. He wanted a daughter who
would look up to him just as he was, withall
the simple habits of years and with all
the shortcomings of his education, with
something of the unquestioning faith and
honest pride of that gentle, kindly wife
whom, long ago, he had laid in Slumsby
churchyard.

Then, too, Mrs. Smith had no children,
and whenever he dreamt of his son's wife,
it had always been as bringing her babe.
On the day on which she claimed him as
father, she was to place his son's child
on his knees. Finally, how could he
make any suitable response to the lady's
appeal, when he knew that his diseased
housekeeper was eagerly waiting for his
reply on the wrong side of the parlour -
door?

I'm sure, ma'am, I'm deeply sensible of
the honour,' he stammered  felt it was all
wrong, and got on no further.

He doubts mv story,' thought Jessie.
I ou>'ht to have foreseen that. I must
confine myself to facts where 1 had trusted
to elicit feelings.'

AVill you come up to the Vicarage this
afternoon, Mr. Smith, and let me shot' }'0u
such proof as I have to give? Xot much,
certainly, but such as may serve to convince
you There is a Prayer-book with your
own handwriting; in it, your own eift to your
boy on his birthday. I should have brought
it with me had I judged better. There area
few torn lesson-books, with his name
scrawled in schoolboy fashion; a hymn-look
that must have been in use in Slumsby
Church; a prize from Cutthorpe Grammar
School, and so forth.'

My dear lady, I do not doubt you. AVhat
motive but one that was noble and true
could impel you to lay claim to so humble
a family ?'

Ashy, your money o' course, you simpleton

!' said his housekeeper, almost audibly,
from the wrong' side of the door.

I have been too sudden, then,' said Jessie;
you want time to think it over. I should
have been more careful in breaking oTound
if I had known you to be so absolutely
unprepared.'

Yes, that is it,' said Mr. Smith, relieved
at having words supplied. ' I was absolutely
unprepared. I am an old man,
unused to changes. Life is very simple and
very monotonous on Sodden Farm. Since
my boy went away, nothing new has ever
happened to me, and the only changes,
except in the crops, have been in the housekeepers.
But I'll come round to the
Vicarage if you'll allow me. I shall be
better able to express myself then. But it
will not be till after six, if convenient. I
want to get off a load of grass that I'm
sending down to the Ferry. Sir Crowsby
Weyland came home yesterday.'

My brother will return this evening, but
come all the same; the sooner he knows this
the better. I've shrunk from telling him
hitherto until I had spoken to you. When
I came to live here with him, I knew that
my husband's home was somewhere in the
neighbourhood, but I did not know that I
should find it so near as this, nor yet that I
should find my husband's father in my
brother's churchwarden. You cannot tell
how I have thought about you all these
last years. How I have longed that we
should meet together and comfort each
other, aud speak to each other about our
wanderer! But you'll come as you are
this afternoon, won't you? And you'll not
dress for me, now I'm your daughter?'

This she said hesitatingly, but the
attempt at reassuring him only increased
his embarrassment by heightening his self-consciousness.
To divert his attention,
Jessie continued to talk of her husband.

She pictured him to the agitated old
man as she had known him at first,
bright and clever and upright, the chosen
companion of her brother, the able representative
of her invalid father, respected
by all, trusted as an intelligent agent even
by Mrs. Apers herself, until, driven to an
old vice to cure a new despair, he disappeared,
sinking' from sioiit like a stone in the
river ; ' since which she added with a
trembling voice, ' I have been always quite
alone. I have had no one near me who
would hear his name with sympathy; and it
has been such torture to be always, nio'ht
and day, facing the same blank, aching for
the same loss, pining for the same presence.
Now we shall comfort each other. Together
we may even find him alive still, and
persuade him to come back to us. Part of
him seems to have returned to me already,
now that I have found you. Do }'ou know,
there are tones in your voice that make my

eyes fill with tears ? I seem to hear him
speaking in them

A few moments more, and she had gone,
and Mr. Smith stood alone in the room,
with these livings, loving; words rin'ino; in
his ears. He was shaken with emotion, yet
never had his son seemed so far from him
as now. He had scarcely taken her hand
at parting, for which he was filled with self-reproach,
and she had gone away slowly, as
one who drags a bitter pain or faints at
heart. Yet why had every touching word
she uttered only seemed to tear his son
from him?

Ever since he had met her, Mr. Smith
had admired and respected Jessie. She had
impressed him as the most sensible lady he
had ever known. She seemed to have at
least as many opinions as her brother, and
to express them quite as fluently; but it is
one think' to admire the tones of the church
organ, quite another thing to contemplate

its erection in your 0T\'n parlour  there you
may surely be permitted to feel that a
cottage piano Till better supply your
private domestic harmony. And yet it seemed
that it was true that his son, his own son
Henry, of whom he thought so little when
he went away, had touched this perfect
instrument with a master's hand  the
vibration of its keys still witnessed to his
power; and since with a passionate and
despairing crash he had abandoned his
dominance of its harmony, there had been
notes within its compass which had been
dumb beneath the touch of any other
fingers, or which responded only by discordant
sound.

In a fit of self-reproach ]mr. Smith went
to his desk, carefully wrote in Jessie's name
as that of his son's wife, in the blank space
left in his unsigned will ; called in his
housekeeper and an intelligent waggoner
to witness his signature of the jealously-folded

paper; and replacing it, breathed a

sigh of relief Sodden Fen was all hers
now in the event of the proven death of his
son. The will was all right too, for he had
had it drawn up at the office of the safest
lawyer in Cutthorpe, with only a blank left
for the name  the name of the daughter he
was always seeking. His housekeeper
turned round and oave him notice in words
strangled with rage, but he scarcely heeded
her, for he had found a daughter from whom
his heart might be withhold, but to whom
he could give his land. The woman lingered
still, challenging; his attention to her view of
the situation ; Mr. Smith dismissed her with
unflattering difference, and she left him,
to comfort herself as best she might with
a sense of superiority to circumstances 
the only thing, perhaps, Avhicli permanently
consoles us all, when we can cajole ourselves
into the belief of it.

Mr. Smith did dress, in spite of Jessie's

well-meant entreaty. It had been his chief
intention in postponing the interview. He
counted greatly upon the moral support to
be gained from his best Sunday clothing ;
and between six and seven he presented
himself at the Yicarao-e. He found Jessie
Smith seated alone in the lonsf low-widowed
room which was the Vicarage
draT\dng-room, anxiously awaiting his
appearance. iotliing in that room resembled
the conventional drawing-room,
nor did anything announce Jessie's individual
tastes. The house was her brother's,
and the room was his, rather than hers.
She never forgot that she was in reality
merely a passing guest. Some day, when
that bride came whose advent Jessie was
fond of predicting, the Vicarage parlour
would be transformed, and would take the
impress of a woman's presence ; till then
it was merely a nondescript sitting-room,
filled with the comfortable dinov fittings

of George Apers's rooms in college. Its
arrangement was carried out upon no
particular jlan, and illustrated no special
development of taste. To be at ease or to
be of use Alas all that was required of animate
or inanimate objects there. You trod
upon a respectable Brussels carpet of the
best bedroom type, but you were not
expected to think of it, even upon the
muddiest day ; it simply was what it was
laid down for, a thing to cover the boards,
and it never aspired to becoming an idea.
It left that to the pictures, and even they
forbore to strain the feeblest imagination.
A couple of dogs, loved and lost, hung in
water-colours on the riofht of the side
window ; Cutthorpe Church tower and a
view of Glen Combe, on the left. Over
the bookcase which ran alone the end of
the room, two oil-paintings which had
been dreams of fiiir women to the undergraduate
; one of them, a shepherdess with

golden hair falling over her bare neck, with
a crook and a lamb at her feet, had been
unkindly confronted  by the same man as
Yicar  with the Bishop of the diocese lithographed
in full canonicals, with a crozier in
the foreground. Beneath this queer jumble
of representation you sat upon an easy old
couch, or lolled in some one of a series of
lounging chairs. George Apers was fond
of boasting that his chairs provided slopes
to suit a dozen different lengths of spine.
This being so, it was your own fault when
you sat down in Slumsby Vicarage if you
did not feel yourself at ease. There was
one thing, however, which you would have
to do without  such a thing as a footstool
was not to be seen. If you were a short
man or a short woman you might put your
feet upon the rung of an upright chair ; if
a lady, and a young one, Mr. Apers would
fetch you a couple of bound volumes of
Punch from the lower shelves of his bookcase,

and you might set your toes tenderly
U23on these treasures ; but such a thing asa
distinctly feminine ottoman worked Tvith
flowers or beads you might save yourself
the trouble of looking: for, for it was a
mistake you would not find there. An
ivory-headed walking-stick with a small
skull for a knob, a lead-pencil as thick as a
rolling-pin and a yard long, and a paperknife
to match, hung over the mantel-shelf,
on which stood sundry jars and vases
equally useless and decidedly more ornamental
than the gaudy presentation-clock
which had been the gift of the ladies' Bible-class
to their favourite curate. This timepiece,
in obedience to some hidden necessity,
still persisted in pointing out the hour ; butin
so dong, it accomplished no duty
towards its possessor, since what it marked
was too artistic to be read.

It is a serious matter for reflection how
often all the vulgarity of a room seems to

enter it with the presence of a woman ; all
the meretricious efforts at decoration, all
the vain results of ill-spent cash, all the
suo'o'estions of wasted time seldom disfigure
ans room, until at some period or
other of its career it and its owner have
been given up to the control of some well-loved
feminine creature.

Such a change had never come over the
room in which Jessie was sitting to await
Mr. Smith's appearance. In it, failing the
presence of beauty, she delighted in the
absence of show. In her lap lay the relics
of the boyhood that had cost the lonely
visitor so dear.

Mr. Smith sat down beside her, this
time less stiffly, and lifted the dog's-eared
books and the torn scraps of schoolboy
writing tenderly, with a hand that
shook ; but he laid them down again with
a sigh : he could not yet open his heart to
the anxious woman who was kneeling

VOL. II. 32

beside him, placing one cherished memento
after another before him.

See she said ; ' these are all Henry's
books. Not many, after all. Would you
not like to keep them? Shall I shot' you
now the books and papers that represent
his later years  the years he was with me?'

Presently,' he said ; but he put the
things aside. The barrier of his reserve
was shaken, but it was scarcely broken
down as yet. With an effort he spoke :

Forgive me, my dear lady, but I must
explain myself straightforwardly as best
I can. All this only seems to take my son
away strom me. At once mine and yours,
how can it be? I cannot see how it all
came about. In my own place I know
where I am ; but understand me, I cannot
come here and accept a doubtful position
as your father-in-law, and be thankful to be
acknowledged as such.'

But it isn't that at all, dear ]mr. Smith.

It is I who come to you, and beg fora
place as your daughter  for nothing else.
It is I who should be thankful to be
acknowledged by you. What position have
I, forsaken by my husband, an apparent
widow in the eyes of the world ? Do let
us set aside all these secondary considerations
 they are not worthy of either of us ;
it is your love and your sympathy that I
long: for. I feel that it is I who have
everything to ask  you who have all to
give. AVill you not receive me for your
son's sake, and let him be a link between us ?'
You forget how he went away, Mrs.
Smith ; and instead of coming back to me, as
I have long been ready to receive him, like
the prodigal son in the parable, he prospers
and grows up rich and respected, turns out
a well-educated man of the world andagentle-
man. so you seem to say  a better gentleman
than his father, any way ; marries a sweet
and pleasant lady like yourself, and through

322

it all, and with it all, never breathes one
word nor sends one message to break the
lonely misery of his forsaken and offended
father. Into, I cannot see it. If, as you say,
it was shame and not all pride that hindered
him, I was ready to meet him half-way
long ago. God knows I have not spared
myself my own share of the blame ; but I
am not ready to accept the favour of a
recognition where I was prepared to grant
the boon of forgiveness.'

I could not force him to your feet ; I
can only kneel here myself and beg you to
accept me as his substitute, dear and justly
offended father.'

Tears were in the sweet woman's eves as
she spoke, whilst she who had never slighted
any human rights knelt as a suppliant on
behalf of the absent man whose sin against
herself had been far deeper than that against
his father ; but a woman's love pardons,
whilst a man's reasons.

It is I who beg for recognition in my
husband's name,' she continued, ' and in
his place for pardon. Let my attitude
express for me the spirit in which I have
approached you ; but see, if poor Henry's
name fails, I have something else to speak
for me here  some little tidings  I have
kept them till the last, because to show
them to you is to show you a piece of my
heart that bleeds at the least light touch.
No hands but mine have ever held them,
no eyes but mine have ever seen them since
they were laid aside. Look ! it is only
a baby's short frock  our baby's, Henry's
and mine ; and just one tiny pair of shoes 
the first and last he ever wore. To lay
them in your lap is like digging up my
dead. Here I have nothing else to show
you ; no cherished spot of ground where
we might kneel together and plant the
flowers which would be watered by my
tears. His father never wept with me. I

bore my double loss alone. Husband and
child both gone in one night.'

Mr. Smith, gently bending over the grief-stricken
fissure, laid a tender caressing; hand
upon her head. She felt the altered touch,
but her sorrow, finding long-delayed expression
in passionate speech, could not
again be immediately controlled.

Oh ! my child, my love, my life !' she
cried, burying her face in the little garments,
but jealous lest the tears should
touch them, ' that God should make us
mothers, and then leave us childless, is the
bitterest, most inexplicable suffering upon
earth! You do not know what it is
like ; no one has ever known it yet,
but those that have endured it. Shall I
tell you? It is to hear your sorrow wake
and cry in the voice of every stranger's
child. It is to kiss the lips of a dead hope
upon the sweet mouth of every living child.
It is to assist starving at a feast of realizations

; to be tied to a torture which feeds
upon your very life, drinks its springs dry
and only grows the stronger. It is to have
your own heart for a grave, to carry death
in your own soul, and A'ith it all to smile
and smile, and cover with your pride the
wounds that will not bear a touch.'

She was not weeping alone now; Mr.
Smith, leaning over her, raised her with
trembling hands, and kissed her on the
forehead.

Jessie,' he said, ' will you do something
for me ? Will you give me something
that you value very much? You
have offered me my son's books back
again, will you give me in their place one
of these little shoes. You do not know
how I have dreamt of my grandchild by
night and by day; how I have prayed for
the moment when I might hold him in my
arms. It has often come to me in the
silence of the night that my son might

be dead and resting in his grave; but never
that when the end of my suspense was
reached at length, all that would be left
me of the little one would be one tiny

shoe.'

He took the simple memento when she
quickly gave it him, seemed to read in it
for a moment some sweet brief story of the
past, then hid it in his bosom. For a time
both were silent, but the silence now covered
the joy of new union as well as the bitterness
of past loss. Jessie knew at last that
she had found a father in the proudly diffident
old man; he recognised the daughter's
spirit in this nobly humble woman.

Have you no comfort to bring me ? Is
that all you have to tell me?' he presently
said.

Xo, that is not all,' she answered, raising
her head with an air almost of triumph ;
that is not all. I have more to say  listen.
I will tell you something that I have often

thought of late. One who has learnt this
lesson, who has learnt to live her life smilingly,
above such buried joys, such hidden
anguish, has an inner force and strength
of soul, a power of conscious victory over
circumstance that has been won with bitter
tears, which in her weakest moments she

would never change for a houseful of living
treasures. You have found me weak and
prostrate, have heard me speak as if I were
simply a grief-distracted creature. This
was the inevitable outcome of showing all
mv loss to you: but shall I tell you something
that I have often thought of late? It
is one thing, one great thing, to have your
life hidden in no love that living dies, or
may die yet; I laid my fair white lily in
the earth, but my life has sunk to rest in
the very soul of love itself, where it is
growing every day. Nothing that is left
can hurt me now, death least of all.'

Mr. Smith's agitation became painful,

greater even than his daughter-in-law's.
A fountain that has been closed for years
cannot break forth without convulsive upheaval,
which will not immediately subside.
Jessie, to soothe him, began talking quietly
and cheerfully. She told the old man
stories of her husband's life; took him with
her in imagination to her own home at
Glen Combe; spoke as friends speak who
tell the tale of years to hearts that listen;
brought him gently, by degrees, down to
the present time, and led him to dwell
upon schemes for the recovery of their absent
wanderer.

They were sitting together, their backs
to the low window which opened on to the
garden-path. Mr. Smith had nearly forgotten
that he was not at home in the comfortably
shabby armchair of daily use ;
Jessie, from her low seat, nestled against
him, her hand resting in his, his arm around
her neck. The old man's attitude expressed

a mixture of respectful sympathy and of
fatherly affection. The consideration that
they were in full view of any passer by the
endow did not trouble them : in this quiet
country vicarage so few callers came. Suddenly
they were aware of footsteps on the
gravel, followed by a ring at the front door.
Each, with an uneasy start, took up a more
conventional position.

It can scarcely be George,' said Jessie.
He could not be here so soon, and then he
would not rino\ We have all this to tell
him. "We had better not let anyone else
into our secret until we have seen him,
although I'm sorry to say that I was obliged
to admit our relationship to that very strange
being, James Daily, last night. In consequence,
he refused to allow Adam to enter
my service, and he nearly assaulted me.
The poor man really seems as though he
were off his head at times.'

He owes me a deeply-rooted grudge,'

said Mr. Smith ; ' he is a man of a morose
and morbid native.'

AVith a tendency towards occasional outbursts
of violence, evidently,' said Jessie ;
then, hearing the entrance of some one into
the hall, she hastily gathered up her treasures,
and carried them out of the room,
promising to return directly. Thus forsaken,
Mr. Smith stood where he was, and
received with much confusion, not George
Apers, but Sir Crowsby Weyland.

A Striking INTRODUCTION.

ilR Crosby \YEYLAXD was

a fashionable, good-looking man
of possibly forty. He was supposed
to have suffered at one time or
another a great deal of annoyance from
poor relations and from political opponents;
this, however, left no impress on his pleasant
features. The owner of the factory in
Cutthorpe had opposed him at the last
election in the Radical interest, and though
he had saved his seat by a narrow majority,
yet that was but a moderate consolation to

a man who found himself inconveniently
bled to retain as a privilege that which he
had looked upon as a right. It may perhaps
have been partly due to the educating
influence of this and similar pieces of discipline
that Sir Crowsby's manner betrayed
no sign of surprise at what he had just
witnessed. He had seen a man, who was
on the same footing as his own tenant-farmers,
sitting in affectionate intercourse
with the new Yicar's sister, and eternally
caressing her, as though they had been
acquainted all their days. He had only
two seconds to get over this shock before he
was shown into the presence of the gentleman,
the lady having evidently taken flight
before his name was announced.

But if he was far too self-contained to
betray the strange discovery, none the less
was Sir Crowsby pondering the situation
with painful eflbrt. No glimmer of light
fell upon the mysterious page from any

direction that he mentally explored. Some
clue might be gained from conversation ; and
if not, he did not mean to let the matter
rest. It was quite too queer a thing.

Good-evening, Mr. Smith,' he said, with
the manner of a man who is used to be
first in his company. ' I've seen some of
your waggons going down my way. Is
the Yicar at home? I called to pay my
respects.'

Mr. Smith hastened to explain that Mr.
Apers was absent, but might be expected
back at anv moment.

And Mrs. Apers Smith  is she absent
also? I have not had the pleasure of
making her acquaintance as yet. Mr.
Apers I met the other day on his way to
the Workhouse in Cutthorpe. By the way,
can you tell me is the lady a widow? The
Yicar simply informed me that he had a
sister coming to live with him, but the
name Mrs. Apers Smith seemed to imjly

that a husband had voluntarily or voluntarily
relinquished his claims.'

Yes,' said Mr. Smith, in his misery
becoming monosyllabic.

One of those widows whose hearts
sing for joy," perhaps?' suggested Sir
Crowsby.

xot at all, sir; and if you will excuse
me, I think I had better take my leave.
Mrs. Smith will be back directly.'

Sir Crowsby allowed the nervous old
man to get as far as the door. There he
stopped him as a cat stops a mouse with
a pat of her paw. He did not choose to let
Mr. Smith depart before he had seen him
confronted with the lady. The farmer's
discomfiture was evident.

Why, Mr. Smith, you're not looking
well. You must take care of yourself,'
said Sir Crowsby cheerfully. ' To see so
steady a supporter with so bad a cold is
distressing to me.'

Mr. Smith became inarticulate, and at
that moment Jessie happily came to his
relief. Sir Crowsby gazed from the face of
the bright young woman of eight-and-twenty
to that of the pale and agitated
man of seventy with increasing curiosity.
Nothing in the lady's manner supplied the
clue to the riddle. She greeted Sir Crowsby
Weyland himself and she restored Mr.
Smith to his armchair as if nothing unusual
had happened. Women can do these
little pieces of acting better than men ; so
Sir Crowsby reflected. The lady was
evidently mistress of the position, in her
OAvn estimation at least. The novelty of
the situation stirred his interest and
quickened his determination to master
the underlying mystery, at once if possible,
by a civil war of words or of wits.
He made his first initiatory move cautiously
and courteously, as became a wary
Gentleman.

VOL. II. 33

I trust that I'm not to miss Mr.
Apers ?'

Jessie hastened to explain that he was
absent at a friend's wedding, but was to
return by that evening's train, then due.

I am the more anxious,' said Sir
Crowsby, ' immediately to improve my
acquaintance with your brother, since I've
been privately warned that he means to
allude to the souls of my ancestors next
Commination Day, to excavate their bones
for the benefit of the British Association,
and to excommunicate myself in revenge
for those rotten acres we're supposed to
have filched from the fist of some thieving
old abbot. Do you and Mr. Smith intend
to array yourselves on the side of the
enemy? If so, I shall have to meet the
crusade by enlisting my widowed sister
and her five sons the next time they
come to pay me a visit down at the
Ferry.'

Suppose we begin with a conference
said Jessie. ' That is an indispensable
preliminary to a mobilization of troops.'

And will suit me uncommon well at

the moment said he, ' since all my recruits

are down with the mumps, and my sister

is in consequence a maternal martyr, to

whose sufferings the blessed St. Dolores's

straits were bliss. Personally, I am deeply

grateful for the afflicting dispensation, since

it prevents them spending the vacation with

me, and permits me to hope that Mr.

Smith's stubble will not be disfigured this

season at least by the corpses of my hopeful

nephews, who have stolen a gun from the

keeper. My nephews always get into

trouble down here, Mrs. Smith. They go

larking about with Avhat our grandfathers

would have called "the hinds and the

yokels." There's a tribe down your way

they much affect, Mr. Smith  the Earliest,

or Dailies, or some such name.'

9,9 9

If they consort with my friend Adam
Daily, in my judgment they show their
good taste said Mrs. Smith decisively.

'Possibly, as you show yours in consorting
with a farmer,' thought Sir Crowsby ;
but he only said, ' Ah, a favourite in the
Sunday-school, I presume. I wonder if
you'll declare war upon me at once, Mrs.
Smith, if I venture to hint that that is no
indication of what a lad is out in the fields.
I am quite aware that ladies are fond of
taking up these big boys, much as they
patronize a blundering hound or an awkward
colles ; but a suspicion that they know
but little about them has often crossed my
mind. The ease with which my own
nephews befool their anxious mother, who
none the less esteems them perfect, is
startling.'

I've been sittings with Mrs. Daily all
the afternoon. Sir Crowsby, and I can assure
you that that peculiarity is not confined

to aristocratic parents, whilst the lack
of concealment necessitated by poverty encourages
me at least to attach greater
importance to the fact.'

You had the courage to go there again
said Mr. Smith timidly, 'after the scene
you were telling me you had last night
with James Daily?'

Then he bethought him that he had said
too much and paused in deep embarrassment.


Just so. Xoah March was sent for me
this afternoon by his mother. I found the
poor woman in great distress; Adam had
been locked out all night, and had been
turned over to the tile-yard at daybreak by
this father. She seemed to look upon his
loss of a quarter of a bed in the cottage
garret as an expulsion from Paradise, and
by a queer association of ideas had named
her new baby Eve. She seemed to consider
the child in some sense accountable for her

brother's ejection, since Daily had voYecl
that he'd not keep more than twelve in the
cottage.'

Then we may take that to be his notion
of a small and handy family !' observed Sir
Crowsby. ' Influential proprietors like
yourself, Mr. Smith, really should persuade
the labourers to keep their lads to the land;
that factory is a hot-bed of Radicalism and
Rascality.'

For that association of ideas we must
hope that the fatal facility of those two Rs
is accountable, Sir Crowsby. You see I
am following your lead,' said Jessie.

The value of alliterative speech as a
contribution to the science of swaying the
masses has of late years been fully recognised,
Mrs. Smith.'

Since no easier wa' of teaching the
people a lie can be met with than that of
marrying a noble idea to an ignoble, or of
converting two separable true notions into

one false one, by the link of alliterative
sound,' flashed out Jessie.

Sir Crowsby smiled, and the smile irritated
her ; it was the smile of a man who
seemed to say that all her little objections
had already been entertained and dismissed
by himself at some very early period of his
own mental history.

Originally the perquisite of the poet,
then the cast-off implement of the man of
letters, the art has now been picked up by
the popular leader, and is comparable as a
weapon to the jawbone of Samson's ass!'
she continued, under the sense of this
exasperation.

And a mighty serviceable weapon
Samson found the jawbone, and a rare lot
of execution he did with it. Your illustration
is unfortunate, Mrs. Smith,' said
Sir Crowsby; whereon they both laughed,
and peace was restored.

To all this Mr. Smith listened in puzzled

silence. Unused to the give and take of
educated intercourse, lie was wondering if
it was by talk as clever as this seemed to
him to be, that his son Henry first attracted
the attention of the lady. Meanwhile, Mrs.
Smith perceived with annoyance that Sir
Crowsby Weyland was paying her the compliment
of a reserved seat at his conversazione,
whilst Mr. Smith, as a shilling
hearer, was left out in the cold. To get
rid of the visitor she expressed an impatient
wish for her brother's return.

Mr. Apers must be chaperoning the
bride and bridegroom on their wedding
tour. The train must have been in three
quarters of an hour,' said Sir Crowsby,
rising. ' I fear that I must deny myself the
pleasure of waiting for your brother, Mrs.
Smith. Poor fellow, I pity him ; if there's
one instance of self-sacrifice on earth more
admirable than another, it is to see a man
going through that ordeal to back up a

friend ; and when he consents to be immolated
at the altar as a groom-man, self-sacrifice
rises to the height of sublimity.
May one without indiscretion inquire the
names of the inconsiderate couple who have
been victimizing their friends and neighbours
to-day ?'

A college acquaintance of my brother's,
Mr. Leopold Stuckley, and a young lady,
Miss Aurea Chapel, who has been a neighbour
of ours at Glen Combe, my father's
place in Devonshire.'

Ah ! poor things ! Well, Mr. Smith,
if you're coming my way I shall be glad
to have a word with you about that rye-grass.'


'About this lady,' being mentally substituted
; the mystery being yet unsolved,
and the gentleman's curiosity considerably
increased by what he saw of Jessie.

Mr. Smith sought his daughter-in-law's
eye doubtfully. He longed to ask her for

instructions, but from the force of habit he
followed the important gentleman to the
door. He was like some very raw lover,
uncertain how to take leave of his mistress
in the presence of a third person; consequently
there was an awkward pause, and
whilst for a moment all three stood together,
the door bell rang violently. Before
it could be answered it rang again,
and almost before they were well aware
of it, into their midst rushed a girl under
the influence of excitement so strong that
for the moment they all held her mad.
When she found herself confronted by
three astonished people, she stopped, then
staggered a few" yards farther, groping
her way apparently half blindly towards
Jessie, to idiom she wildly appealed to
save her,' to ' protect her,' ' not to let anyone
come near her.' With the ready response
of maternal instinct, Jessie wound
her arms round the excited creature, but

her amazement was more strongly expressed
in the simple   Aurea  Aurea Chapel !
The bride! You here!' than it would have
been by voluble exclamations.

Aurea ! Explain ! ' she said, as the girl
loosened her hold upon her ; but Aurea's
only answer was to sink fainting into the
arms of Sir Crowsby Weyland, who caught
her cleverly ere she fell. Sir Crowsby
never acknowledged himself outwitted by
circumstances. His prejudices disposed him
to regard the whole things a neat bit of
acting, got up for some incomprehensible
feminine reason. He laid the slight form
none the less tenderly down upon George
Apers's comfortable old-fashioned sofa; but
when, quickly recovering, Aurea began to
roll her bright head with an incoherent
outburst of complaint upon the sofa-cushions,
Sir Crowsby comforted himself by
the reflection that a girl's griefs, even when
genuine, were like the bubbles on a glass

of sparkling wine, quickly come, quickly
gone; quickly changing, giving zest to the
draught, but not to be deeply investigated
as they rippled over the tongue. He was
quite unmoved in the sense in which poor
Mr. Smith was moved by the startling
nature of the incident. Just where he was
when the storm fell upon them, rooted to
the spot by a bewildering sense of pain,
the old man stood ; equally unable to render
any assistance, or to get himself out of the
room; in such evident perturbation of spirit
and discomfiture of judgment that Jessie,
moved by her love and pity for him to the
neglect of Sir Crowsby's presence, gave
him a word of con? fort, prefaced by the
name of ' father.' Sir Crowsby's attention
was immediately on the alert, pursuing
with well concealed eagerness now the clue
of the former mystery, now the thread
of the present catastrophe ; failing to find
either, and baffled in his search, taking

refuse in the common incredulity of self-centred
souls, to whom their own world is
all the world there is, and their own conviction
the measure of the credible. It
would be hard upon Sir Crows Weyland
to condemn him for this, too; for after all
he only spoke as he had been accustomed
to think, when he said to !Mr. Smith the
moment that they stepped outside the door :

Well, we shall have to look to Mr.
Apers, I suppose, for a full, true, and
particular relation of the slip between the
hymeneal cup and the lip of that golden-haired
damsel. Xo doubt he is in the
secret, and will follow by the next express.'

This remark was due to Mrs. Smith's
first exclamation upon seeing Aurea,
also to the absence of the wedding-ring,
which Sir Crowsby's sharp eyes had not
failed to detect when Jessie drew off the
fainting girl's gloves. But Mr. Smith
was silent ; this was not the sort of talk

he cared to answer, even from the lips
of Sir Crowsby Weyland. But the next
remark compelled reply. They were walking
home together, Sir Crowsby having
drawn his companion away at the earliest
opportunity, to leave Mrs. Smith undisturbed
in her care of the 3'oung lady, when
suddenly the younger confronted the elder
man with this significant observation :

I'm afraid I disturbed you, Mr. Smith,
in the enjoyment of a considerable omit
of the older lady's confidence by my visit.
Clearly I must look to you for the explanation
of these Vicarage pastorals.'

Mr. Smith stood a good deal in awe of
the gentleman who thus addressed him ;
but there were limits to his subservience,
the sooner reached to-day, in that he had
heard that which had given a considerable
lift to his self-esteem. He had meant to
keep his own and his daughter-in-law's
secret, but Sir Crowsby AVeyland had

J

evidently seen and heard too much not to
hear all. He therefore answered stiffly :

The lady in question, Sir Crowsby, did
my family the honour to ally herself With
it six years ago, by marrying my son
Henry. She is my daughter-in-law. I
find in the fact, which I have but just
learnt, as much cause for surprise as you
yourself can feel. It fills me with new
and higher conceptions of m\' son, that
she should have sought in his society, and
should in any measure have found, satisfaction
for the requirements of a noble nature
and a mind above the common ; but then I
never really kncAv my son, since he was little
more than a lad of the same age and of the
same sort of wild disposition as those
young gentlemen, your nephews, of whom
you were speaking.'

No disrespect to your son, Mr. Smith 
for all I've heard to the contrary I dare say
he was a fine fellow enough ; but permit

me to remark that there's no knowing what
a woman will find in a man. Those
characteristics which chiefly distinguish
him in the eyes of mankind, take my word
for it, she will never see ; but she will invest
him with a shining row of perfections
which he doesn't even know the names of.
The surest way not to know what a man
is, is to take a woman's account of him.
Why don't you plaster the Antipodes with
advertisements to your son's " advantage,"
bribe him home, and judge for yourself ?
That's what I should do if I were unlucky
enough to be an anxious father with an
absent son, instead of a bachelor uncle with
five ever-present nephews. I have had
some experience of colonists and their ways
in my wanderings, and I should be delighted
to give you the benefit of my opinion if
you've any lurking doubts about him.'

i\Ir. Smith, effectually silenced by this
turn of the conversation, hastily took his

leave ; but Sir Crowsby beckoned him
back.

Excuse me, Mr. Smith  wait one
moment. As an old friend, permit me to
give you a word of warning : you've
been known to be beating the bushes for a
daughter-in-law  take care, now that one
has come forward. What do you know of
the lady beyond the fact that she is Mr.
Apers's sister ? Only a half-sister, I have
been told. Have you made any further
inquiries ? No doubt she is a very attractive
woman ; but, my dear sir, Sodden Fen
is an attractive bribe. You've been anselmo;
for stickleback with bait for a salmon ;
you've caught one, to your own surprise,
but not to mine, necessarily. Pray be
warned, and be careful. Well, good-evenings.
I shall look in there ao-ain later
on to inquire for that interesting damsel ;
and if I can serve you in any way by
having a little further conversation, which

VOL. II. 34

may help to draw the elder lady out, and
to throw any clearer light upon this claim
of hers, I shall be quite prepared to undertake
it.'

Sir,' said Mr. Smith, ' I thank you for
your interest in me and my affairs. I may
doubt myself, but not that lady. Good-evening.'


Sir Crowsby smiled a smile of pity and
compassionate contempt, and took his way
back to the Ferry.

'the lad's life.'

Grandmother DAILY had got
well into her first sleep on the
evening of the day on which
she met Aurea Chapel at the Workhouse -
gates, when she was awakened by the
matron, who, passing between the two rows
of beds in the long narrow dormitory like
an angel of death, stopped at the foot of
Mrs. Daily's iron trestle.

Mrs. Daily, wake! you're wanted.
There's been an accident brought into the
out-ward. It's your grandson, Adam Daily,

342

and he's very bad. Xow don't give way
and disturb the whole infirmary ! Make
haste and get uj) !'

I knew it,' said Grandmother Daily,
sitting up in her bed, then, half stupefied
with sleep and fear, stumbling out on to the
bare boards in the eioiit o'clock limit of
a summer evening. ' I knew it,' she said,
as she fumbled for her clothes. ' There
was a spider on the ward-window when I
lay my grey head on the flocks, and I says
to old Sally, " There's a sorrow for you or
for me," for it was a- weaving its web
between her head and mine. " For you,
then," says Sally ; " sorrow and joy is all
one to me now. Like my victuals, the
savour's gone out o' them; there's nothing-left
me to choose between 'em." '

Then thank the Lord you can taste 'em
still,' suddenly cried out, from the neighbouring:
bed, the old woman alluded to.

And so I do,' retorted Mrs. Daily, ' but

not out o' season ; didn't I fall out on the
new parson one day in the room, because
he threw cold water on my nephew's drowning
 said he'd not gone down in his own
name, wasn't his own mother's son, or whatnot?
But he might drown this 'ere sorrow
for good and all, as if it was a new-born
kitten, and then I'd say my " Praise the
Lord." '

Xow, Mrs. Daily,' said the matron impatiently,
' will you make haste dressing
and not stir up the whole house ? What's
the use of so much talking; ? It won't heal
your feelings, nor mend your grandson's
bones.'

A little talking in due time 'ud have
done both,' replied the old woman. ' As I
was a-coming in this evening I met a girl
down by the dog at the gates, asking her
way to Slumsby of old Jones the porter,
and I sent a message by her to a lady as
favours my lad, that she should protect him

from harm, for lie was like to be killed i'
the brick-yard ; but no doubt she forgot it,
doing her hair. What's life, or death
either, to a girl with golden locks'? nothing
! I knew it ! Lead on, mistress 
lead on! My Union apron's full o' tears
already : but it'll hold more salt water
nor a lady's bit o' muslin.'

The matron, in despair of stopping this
passionate stream of talk, led the way
silently down narrow passages and up steep
stone stairs to the distant outbuilding
where Adam lay, and Mrs. Daily followed,
loquacious with grief and fear.

I've been dreaming o' Adam ever since
I lay me down. They say as the first bird
as leaves the nest's sure to come to the
ground. To get rid o' one mouth to fill
another's never bring you a blessing, and
so I said to my son when I was tending his
wife ; but words are withes when a will's
your master. What a mercy they didn't

carry the lad back to this mother ; and she
nth her thirteenth !'

To this practical observation the matron
condescended to reply :

He thought of that himself, Mrs. Daily;
and so they brought him here by his own
desire. He asked for you ; but he hasn't
spoken since, and won't again, unless I am
very much mistaken.'

Oh, mistress, don't say he isn't likely
to recover! Don't say it o' my dear lad
Adam ! Picked up in the street, did ye say,
in front of the factory-gates? and him to
be served so in that ill-managed tile-yard,
as never had done nothing amiss to a soul !'

Well, I don't know about nothing
amiss, Mrs. Daily: he's been fighting  that's
what he's been, and he ought to be ashamed
of himself; and so I'd tell him if he was
likely to live to profit by it, which I
shouldn't say he was. He's got two ribs
broken, and the right shoulder dislocated,

and he's a mass of bruises from head to
foot;

At hearing this dismal recital Mrs. Daily
burst into uncontrollable sobs.

They've no one to blame in that yard
but themselves, and so I happen to know,'
the matron went on, ' my own brother
being the foreman ; and most annoying these
circumstances are to him. When they get
quarrelling outside the premises, like a lot
of savages, in the road, it stands to reason
that it isn't his business, nor any other responsible
man's, to control them. They're
subjects for the law, that's what they are 
and your grandson among them. If he had
his dues he'd find himself in prison; and
he's got no one to thank but himself,
unless it's the police for not rescuing him
sooner.'

Oh aye,' said Grandmother Daily,
raising her voice with bitter passion, as
she stumbled after the angry matron

through the covered passage which connected
the outdoor infirmary with the
Union main buildings. ' When the poor
are struck down they are always to blame !
If Sir Crowsby \Yeyland was to light on
his head the next time he's jumping, in the
face o' the Lord, at the tail o' the huntsman,
it 'ud be a shocking judgment ; but
when the honestest, inoffensive, hard work -
ingest lad in the country's kicked on to a
stretcher by a lot o' blackguards as is
governed by a coward, he gets blame for
pity, and scorn for fellow-feeling ! Oh
aye  I know !'

You don't know who you're speaking
to, Mrs. Daily  or you've forgotten, at any-rate
; but if you've forgotten, I shall not
forget who it is that is speaking to me.
You've been making yourself too much at
home in the House of late, as I shall think
it my duty to name to the Board, and so
I give you fair warning. What are you

Dailyss, I should like to know, that you're
such a radical lot ? Why, you've all died
and been buried by us for the last fifty
years ; and at the rate you are coming on at
in Slumsby, you re likely to be a considerable
expense to the parish for many a year
to come. I'd have you to remember that
those who mil not learn their places in
this world will be taught them in the
next.'

She spoke harshly, disregarding the fact
that they had already entered the square
white-washed room where lay poor Adam's
bruised and mangled body upon its parish
bed. But love silenced the ever-ready
retort upon Grandmother Daily's lips.
With arms outstretched she rushed to her
boy's bedside, and threw herself on her
knees, weeping by his pillow.

Granny,' he whispered feebly, ' I heard
her. Pray God I may live to take you out
o' this. I think Diggory Daily had better

have lived, for the sake of his wife and his
son ; it's a poor thing to give in and
die.'

How long; asfo it seemed now since, in
unconscious bodily ease, Adam had fling
his sound limbs at random amongst those
of his three bed-fellows, wondering vaguely
why he alone had a lump in his throat, and
why Bob should be unsympathetic. Life's
lessons had been crowded upon him since
that night when he first spelt out confusedly
the first letters of the initiatory
alphabet of suffering.

In excuse for the matron it must be said
that she was generally a good-natured
woman enough, as she had shown herself
when talking to George Apers on the day
that he visited the House. She commonly
offered a very fair resistance to the hardening
influences of her vocation ; but there
were special reasons for her present annoyance.
Her brother, who lacked her firmness

of purpose, had of late been getting
into trouble with his master, ]mr. Rout, the
tile-merchant, for the scenes of disorder
which disgraced his government of the
work-people ; and his chances of remaining
at his post were, she suspected, endangered
with Adam's chances of life. Further, she
resented her enforced superintendence of
this supernumerary ward, with its disagreeable
consequences of being disturbed at
night for the convenience of accidents,
drunkards, and fits  a species of work
which she bitterly complained was not
represented by her hardly earned salary.

As Mr. Smith had observed, when
explaining to Jessie his benevolent notions
with regard to the disposition of his
property, Cutthorpe was very badly off in
respect of accommodation for its sick people.
The town had no hospital, and the Workhouse
infirmary was but a pitiful substitute.
As a bid for popular favour at the

time of the last election, Mr. Rout, the
tile-merchant, had indeed announced, with
a flourish of trumpets, his intention of providing
a model building, in the shape of an
infirmary, for the benefit of his own work-people,
their wives and families. This
wonderful building was to be put up by the
hands of his own work-people, with bricks
of local clay, baked in his own kilns ; and
for the advantage of wounds and infectious
cases, it was all to be lined, in the latest
sanitary style, with tiles of china clay
drawn fi'om his own ovens. This infirmary
was to jon the factory-buildings, and as
the local Radical organs did not fail to
assert, henceforth it was to be ' quite a
privilege to lose a limb in the service of so
public-spirited an employer.' But when
this munificent merchant,' as the same
paper called him, failed in his candidature,
on one pretext or another the workmen
were dismissed, the hospital stood still, and

its unfinished walls grew into a warehouse.


Mr. Eout had counted the cost of his
promises, and if he got in he meant to perform
them. Sir Crowsby "VYeyland, with a
fine contempt for such commercial calculations,
promised everything to everyone, got
in, and paid nothing. Meanwhile, a smallpox
scare broke out in Cutthorpe, and the
Poor Law Guardians, to stop the mouths of
local newspaper editors and of Whitehall
authorities, ran up a temporary shelter in
the immediate neighbourhood of the Workhouse
for the infectious folk who never came.
It was only a small, square building, with
a wash-house on the basement ; and above,
two white washed rooms capable of holding
four beds each for the reception severally of
male and female patients. Having got this
shelter on their hands, when the crisis
passed they ran out a covered passage, connected
it with the main buildings and

converted it into a sort of asylum for accidents,
factory and street casualties. One
member of the Board, who chanced to be a
chemist and a Conservative, was indeed
accused by the other side of having received
two guineas for the disinfecting of
this ward, although it had never been used.
In answer to which accusation it was uroed,
that even if it were so, it was a politic
measure calculated to restore public confidence.
To such a point of enlightenment
had local politics arrived in the intelligent
town of Cutthorpe.

Into this white-washed tenement then,
disinfected the year before from the fear of
small-pox, had Adam been carried groaning,
upon an old door which the police considerately
kept for the use of drunkards. The
public protectors had been in time to save
his life, but not his limbs, from the brutal
crowd of roughs by which he was surrounded
; and their intervention alone, in

all probability, prevented his prosecuting
to the flitch end his chivalrous attack upon
Aurea Chapel's assailants. On this particular
evening, Adam fortunately chanced
to be the sole candidate for the accommodation
of the infirmary. The parish doctor
came, and did this best. The matron sent ina
candle, a drop of spirits, and the few other
requisites that the doctor ordered; and then
Adam was left alone with his grandmother
to succour him as best she might.

Tell your old granny all about it,
Adam,' she said, leaning over him ; ' it'll
ease yer mind to have it out.'

Very likely, but it would not ease his
broken ribs to talk when every breath was
an exhaustion ; this, however, the hale old
woman could not know. She was not
capable of understanding a state of things
wherein speech would be felt as an aggravation
rather than as an alleviation of suffering.
The uneducated imagination requires

actual realization of pain before it can
comprehend this condition, being, as a rule,
unable to grasp it sympathetically.

 Fancy the brutes setting on you and
murdering you like this, for nothing !' she
exclaimed. ' I wish I had 'em within arm's-length
o' me, and I'd soon score their ugly
faces, and let that slinking' foreman know
what an old mother thinks o' him.'

 They were chaffing a young lady,'
gasped Adam, ' and I took her 23art.'

There now ! you stood up for her !
Well, I hope she may live to hear it ; for
be she who she may, I'll be bound she
wasn't worth it.'

I wish I knew she got away,' whispered
Adam, between a sigh and a groan.
Granny, do find out.'

Well, what like was she, did ye notice ?
Was she a stranger? There was a yellow-haired
gh4 standing by the gates as I was
turning in at six o'clock (ah me ! I might

VOL. II. 35

ha' been fearing the worst then, but I wasn't
tasting it as I am now). She was slight-built
and fanciful-looking, set a good deal
o' store by her appearance, and held her
head rather high as she went, and did not
seem to notice the pavements ; do you
think it was she?'

 Yes,' breathed Adam.

Well, then she'll be safe enough with
Mrs. Smith at Slums Yicarage by now ;
and if her thoughts isn't too much occupied
with her own affairs, no doubt she'll have
told the lady how it was with you. I made
a point of it in speaking to her that she
should name my fears for you. It's a queer
world, and always has been since I've
known it. I sent that very girl on to bethe
means of savins you out o' transfer, and
she went straight and shoved you in.'

Adam said no more ; but when his pain
allowed him a moment's respite, his
thoughts followed that strand-er maiden

arriving at the Vicarage and telling his
friend there, as he had no doubt that she
would tell, how he had risked his life in her
service ; and the friend, whilst she listened,
would feel that his action had proved his
comprehension of the teaching she had
given him, and the sympathy and encouragement
he so much needed would be his.
It comforted him to think that Mrs. Smith
would hear ; it lifted the load of his suffering
to believe that she would come to share it;
it exalted him to know that she would
approve his conduct.

Love such as this, wherein, freed from
self, the soul adores some human embodiment
of the highest perfection it has learnt
to conceive, finds no task hard, no service
bitter, if only its effort may be accepted,
its toil laid upon the altar of service. Like
a little child it raises imploring arms, that
by the humility of its attitude it may be
received into closer fellowship with the

352

object of its admiration. Worship such as
this cannot degrade its object, since any idol
with the false feet made of clay will surely
totter and descend from its pedestal beneath
the clinging embrace which it betrays.
Nor does youth alone show these enthusiasms
; they survive in some quick
natures until tranquil years  freed from the
eccentricities and excitability, from the
unreasoning demands and the grotesque
evidences of immaturity, by which they
chiefly  our earlier attention, showing
then passion in its purest form, in its
noblest development, as the calm upward
tendency of the soul, aspiring by means of
that which has shown itself to its gaze as
the most humanly divine, towards the
divinely human.

Thus it was that while Adam lay
exhausted upon his workhouse bed, with
no visible horizon beyond the dark one
which hemmed in his present suffering, the

thought that the lady who was the object of
his respect and devotion would hear of his
conduct, and would come to him to share
its bitter consequences, was the one gleam
of comfort that played around him m the
darkness. His anxious ear even began to
listen for her footsteps on the stair, and all
his senses, sharpened by pain, were attentive
for the music of her voice ; but the long
moments grew into what seemed to be
tedious hours, and still there was no sound
but the oppressed breathing of his grandmother
in the chair by his side, the chiming
of the quarters from the church clock, and
the occasional howling of the porter's
melancholy dog. Suddenly the idea occurred
to him that she would not come,
because of his father's violence towards her
when he discovered her connection with
the Sodden Farm family ; or worse still, as
his father had, he knew, been sent for, he
might even meet her and attack her in the

narrow lanes between Slumsby and Cut-thorpe.
Instinctively, Adam credited his
father's violent prejudices with undefined
possibilities of swift mischievous outburst.
What if he had met her, and wounded her,
perhaps ! The road was lonely between
the village and the town. She, knowing
him too little to have learnt to fear him,
might have irritated the morbid man by
some reference to the disputed subject; she
might have cried for help, and there might
have been none near ; and even now she
might be lying by the roadside bleeding and
wounded, as Adam himself had lain. She
might be dead perhaps, and Adam's own
father a murderer. She dead! if it were
so, the light had gone out of this world for
Adam. He mio;ht as well abandon himself
to be mastered by his misery, if this one
strong hope were to be quenched in
obscurity. His fancies were not very
reasonable, perhaps ; but then reason

scarcely waits upon fever; fearful imaginations
are quickened by wounded nerves,
and the details of Adam's recent experience
might well have suggested these particular
shapes of dread. Exaggerated images of
terror and mischief fed the fever that burnt
in his Abounds, and hurried the pulses
throbbing in his veins until the only
expression of feeling possible to him was
summed up in the simple statement :

Granny, the railway-train is running
through my head. If you cannot stop it
I shall shout out.'

Then he began to talk about his garden.
Honeysuckles grew around his bed  white-flowering
convolvulus twined climbing up
his pillow  peonies dazzled his aching eyes
sunflowers stood and nodded at him, turning,
as he gazed, into strange girl-faces, with
scared wild eyes and golden hair ; and he
was left alone to rescue them from the poles
of the Fen-men, who thrust them down as

they thrust down Diggory Daily, and laid
them low in the earth.

Don't 'ee, Adam  don't 'ee wander so !
Light o' my old eyes, hope o' my widowed
heart! Let them girls and plants alone,'
wailed the old grandmother. ' Them as
raves o' flowers, th' Almighty's rooting
with 'em in the earth.'

Will she come ?' said Adam with an
effort, recalled by her voice.

Mrs. Daily, believing that his thoughts
were still following the stranger maiden,
answered :

When thy father comes, we'll send him
for her,' and was perplexed by the vehemence
with which he answered :

'No!'

Then in his mind a new fear arose. He
was dying, and others would not suffer
his best friend to judge him truly. The
stranger would not tell her how and why
he fought. The matron would receive her

when she came to ask for him, his eyes
being closed for ever, and she would speak
over the stiff, sad outline on the bed just as
she had spoken over the bruised and aching
body  would say that he had no one but
himself to blame, and that he had deserved
it all  would say it all the more when he
was gone, and his deaf ears and his dumb
lips could no longer give the lie to any
tale. This was agony! This was worse
than the thought of any living harm  this
dull, dead immortality of slander, which
yet none might have power to kill ! And
she, who had been his guide, would stand
by and hear it all so sadly, and would go
away back to her life again with a sore
doubt at heart because of her blighted hopes
in him. Something of all this, in his
despair, he tried to pour into the sympathetic
but dulled ear of his grandmother
beside him ; but his weak words wandered,
and the sense was hard to catch, and she,

mistaking him, laid a wrinkled hand upon
Ills lips.

 Hush, laddie ! live for the lassies, and
not die for them. They ain't o' much
account in heaven, where they're skinny
things and mostly run to wings. Come
another year or two, young lovell make
you prize yer life. You don't know what
it is yet, and it's easy leaving what ye
haven't learnt. Trust your old granny,
laddie. Lie you still and husband yer
breath. Would to God I could give you all
there's left o' mine !'

Bit Adam made no answer, and as the
moments grew into half-hours, and the
half-hours lengthened into hours, and he
seemed no more to see or hear her, the
throbbing of her own heart fell upon the
old woman's ear like the pulsations of
silence, and in the dread of his death she
cried aloud in the simple pathos of her class
and creed :

' God Almighty, if we'd only take the old
life to mend the young one ! Will nought
but our strength suffice Thee ? Here am I,
an old pauper; but I can do a day's work
yet. It's poor work, Lord, but I'd doit
willingly; and I shall never want to rest
nor to enjoy myself. I'm not one as cares
for songs nor shows, but I'd serve Thee
faithfully. The lad's life is all before him,
and by the pattern o' the past he might bea
leader in the future ; but the taste of the
mould's in my mouth already, and I ain't
got no home but this, where they say I
make too free. Lord, take me !'

So praying, she threw her blue checked
apron oer her head, and rocking herself
backwards and forwards, spent her tears in
the flickering lioht of the tallow candle
which dimly lit up the empty beds  beds
whose smooth, flat surface, beside the one
full one, seemed to emphasize the presence
of life as a merely temporary accident.

All this time, whilst Aurea Chapel's misadventure
was prompting Adam's excited
imagination, she herself was lying in a
sweet infantine slumber in a quiet chamber
at Slumsby Yicarage. ]o pain either of
mind or body vexed her dreams. She had
received all the care and attention she
desired. She had told her story, in her
own way, not untruthfully at all; but
reproducing, as we all must do, only so
much truth as she had been capable of
perceiving in relation to her own conduct
and motives and to that of others. It was
all true so far as it went, which is all that
can be said of the most veracious statements
of the best of us; but then if Jessie had
been telling it, it would have been so very
much truer, because it would have gone so
very much farther. The skirts of truth
have a very varying amplitude : sometimes
they cover a space no bigger than a mushroom,
at others they extend to a whole plain.

Jessie had listened attentively to all that
she had been told by the agitated girl, and
had arrived at the rest of the story pretty
accurately by a rapid process of deduction ;
and Aurea  who commonly lived in a state
of perpetual surprise that there could be
two opinions in the world, and who set her
conscience as she set her watch, by the
views entertained on the subject of morals
as of time, by the persons under whose
influence or in whose society she happened
to And herself  went to bed with the happy''
conviction that her course of conduct must
be all right, because George Apers had
indicated it, and because his sister had
received her kindly. Whilst Jessie was
soothingly brushing her hair for her she
dried her tears, and resolutely made up
her mind not to think any more that night
about this strange ending: to what should
have been her wedding-day ; because she
really was so very tired, and because it

really was worse than useless to lie awake
and think. Feelings may be spices adding
pungency to life, but a little commonplace
philosophy is wholesome ; like table-salt, it
goes further, and is more generally applicable.
So Aurea Chapel laid down all the
urgent difficulties of her tangled life, with
her shining head ujDon the pillow, and
did not think about the morrow; slept a
childlike slumber, undisturbed equally by
considerations of the feelings of the mano



whose wife she was to have become that
day, and by perplexities as to her future
reception of the love she had encouraged
that other man to tell, in whose house she
had found a safely chosen refuge. It
need not be added that the startling circumstances
which marked her walk thrush
the town of Cutthorpe  the old woman's
message to Mrs. Smith, the treatment she
received from the factory-hands, and the
intervention of one of their number on her

behalf  found no fixity among the shifting
shadows which distracted her giddy brain,
and engaged her preoccupied attention.

Jessie sat beside her unexpected visitor
whilst she slept, fearful lest any sense of
trouble from the strangeness of her surroundings
should disturb her. Aurea
looked very pretty as she lay, and very
yomig. To go to sleep in the midst
of difficulties, to leave other people to
think for her, and to arrive at some desirable
solution of the perplexities about which
she did not even dream, seemed to her
quite the natural thing, and was quite in
keeping \dth those innocent unlined features.
So Jessie did the thinking, and
there was plenty of it to be got through.
In the first place, there was Leopold
Stuckley : well, he probably deserved his
desertion. In the next place, George:
what of him ? He could not be so easily
dismissed; in fact he might probably be

expected to return home that night. That
might be awkward, undeniably. But would
he come ? Surely he would have the sense to
postpone a return that might have the air of
a pursuit of the fugitive bride. Aurea's relations
and friends? well, she had a father, and
he was only in Rome, and Eome is very
near England, measured by the metal rods
of modern railway lines. She would counsel
Aurea to return to Italy. She could do
nothing better than immediately to place
herself under the natural protection of her
father's name. It would be better than
any other. Aurea must again retire beneath
the nominal protection of the parental
wing, and must reappear at some future
time, taking a new departure with a steadied
step upon the high-road of life. At that
problematically distant period when reason
might be expected to rule even Aurea
Chapel's conduct, Jessie might even endure
to contemplate the revival of George's
former devotion. There is something

alluring to a true woman's fancy in that
kind of devotion to an object which deepens
as its value in the sight of others declines.
Aurea admired, A urea flirting capriciously
and coquettish, Aurea queening it wherever
she went, had seemed to Jessie buta
mad choice for George. But Aurea
sobered, steadied, reproached by many,
possibly even a little repentant for the
scrapes which she had risked by her folly,
seemed to Jessie a far more possible and
hopeful bride for her brother. Then she
laid her head back, and let her fancies
wander further: dismissed George, dismissed
Aurea, bade even mr. Smith retire to Sodden
Farm, replaced them all by a vision of the
husband she had not seen for years. To
go to Australia, and to make inquiries in
all directions, until by means of such
inquiries, and of such agencies as she could
set in motion, she had obtained some clue
to his whereabouts, or, at any rate, to his
VOL. II. 36

later history, was a prompting which was
daily assuming in her mind the shape of
an intention. Fears, unspoken but not
admitted, by which she had been withheld
at first, were all paling now before
the rush of quick desires which this day's
revival of association had created. She
must go, and she would find her husband,
and would bring him back to kneel with
her at his father's feet, and to restore late
joy to Sodden Farm.

Then once more the scene shifted, and
not her husband's brown hair and strong
features, but a round boyish face, blue
wondering eyes, and fair hair, seemed to
face her; and Adam, with hands outstretched
as his ancestor's had been when he fell, entreated
on behalf of the people against this
transmission of Sodden Fen. ' You, who
have taught us your faiths, who have fired
me with your aspirations, give us our lands
for the people's good; save us from the

mastery of your ill-chosen husband. Give
us the blessing you bade us look for* withhold
the curse that you offer in its stead.'

Was it for this,' she asked herself, ' that
she had spoken in the school ? Was it for
this that her longing had seemed to touch
its fulfilment, that by her own action she
might henceforth render its accomplishment
impossible?' And Adam? Would
the lad learn to question the lie which her
life would seem to give to her teaching?
That was the sorest doubt of all. !Not for
her own sake, but for his ; not for the pitiful
matter of loss in his estimation, but from
the unspeakable dread that in learning to
doubt her, he might learn to doubt all.
These lines of thought thus reasoned out
might seem indeed far too strained to touch
as yet the peasant lad ; but in simple practice,
as the thinker knew, she would shortly
find him well within their limits. Interchange
of notions on the subject might

362

indeed be never possible ; but lives can
clash where intellects may never meet. She
knew herself to be but working out mentally
the problem they both must solve practically
at no very distant day. She summed
up in a few idle seconds the difficulties
which he and she, she foresaw, must encounter
in detail in the slow years to come ;
arriving thus at once in thought where the
future must presently bring them both.
Already she saw the trust in Adam's eyes
turned to vague wonder and reproach, to
doubt and questioning, and then rejection.
Could she hope that the faiths she might
give him would survive the failure, if it
must fail, of his early trust in her? "Would
his enthusiasm outlast the downfall of his
zeal for her ? She ventured to think that it
miirht, as a fire kindled survives the match
that has ignited it ; and to that end she would
seek to shape him quickly into that which
she would see him, ere the shock came.

A Night IX THE VICARAGE.

Hist the clocks were striking;
ten, the door-bell of Slumsby

Yicarao'e

rang,

and Jessie

Smith was recalled from her watch by
Am'ea's bedside to the consideration of
matters below. Her brother sent her a
telegram, stating that he should not return
that night; in it he further desired to be informed
of Miss Chapel's arrival and of her
welfare.

Whilst Mrs. Smith was composing the
difficult and somewhat delicate answer, the

telegraph boy from Cutthorpe, waiting in
the hall, was thrilling the parlour-maid with
an account of how a young lady had nearly
been killed by the factory lads that afternoon
in the town, and how one of their
number from Slumsby village had interfered
to protect her, and had received such
dreadful injuries that he had been taken
up for dead and had been carried to the
Workhouse infirmary. All this Jessie unavoidably
overheard, to the immediate
reviving; of her bitter fears on Adam's
account. She knew that his father had
that day sent him off to the tile-yard, and
the telegraph boy, when carefully questioned,
declared that the victim, whose name he
had not heard, was a fresh hand from the
village. In the midst of this recital, Sir
Crowsby reappeared. He had called again
to inquire for the young lady who had that
evening tumbled so helplessly into his hands.
Sir Crowsby Weyland faced the lady.

against whom he had so recently warned
Mr. Smith, with no edible change of demeanour,
although his interest and his
curiosity were both keenly heightened by
what he had since heard. Something in
the lady's presence made it impossible to
him to change in any degree the attitude
with which he had naturally met her when
first introduced to her as simply the Vicar's
sister. It might have been because she had
that assured but unassuming consciousness
of acceptance which belongs to those who,
not having had to conquer their own social
position, dispute that of no one else. To
Sir Crowsby's judgment it seemed strange
that this special self-possession should
characterize Mr. Smith's daughter-in-law,
if such indeed she were.

Even whilst he was politely offering to
go off into Cutthorpe at once and ascertain
what had really happened in connection
with Miss Chapel's accident, he found himself

wishing that it were possible candidly
to put a question or two to the lady before
him, which might lead her to explain her
present position. Since she had lowered
herself by her marriage with Mr. Smithson,
was it  he would like to have known
a certain consciousness of mental superiority
which had kept her socially un-submerged,
as he undoubtedly found her ?
Was it, in a word, well-preserved family
pride or vigorous personal conceit which
led this lady to urge her relationship with
Mr. Smith, and yet to assume an unchanged
position, morally and socially, with a
certainty which proffered no unnecessary
claim ? In Sir Crowsby Weyland's judgment
it must be either the family pride or
the personal conceit, or both united; and yet
in point of fact it was in the very absence
of any such forms of self remembrance that
Jessie's force lay. It was in her capacity
for self-forofettino devotion to ends which

were noble, in her generous enthusiasms
for her faiths and her friends, in her vivid
pursuits of ideal aims to the neglect or
exclusion of narrow realizations. These
were the inspiring elements in a character
which was raised thus, and thus alone, above
the dull stagnation of surrounding; levels of
existence.

Sir Crowsby Weyland was by no means
unwilling to take a moonlight walk into
Cutthorpe to ascertain what had really
happened in the recent affray, and he was
not ill-pleased at this opportunity of bringing
home to his political opponent, Mr.
Eout, his sense of the ungovernableness of
the Radical faction as represented by the
lawless hands at the factory. But before
he set out he was anxious once more to seethe
young lady dio had been the heroine
of the adventure; to that end he manoeuvred
himself into the drawing-room. He had
pictured her standing there once more

before him, telling her story with pretty,
eager gestures; pathetic, appealing, tearful,
but not on this second occasion losing her
self-control so far as to permit her attitude
to decline from the interesting: into the
embarrassing. In memory and imagination
only did he again desire to hold her in
his arms ; such an experience being perhaps,
like foreign travel, better appreciated
in a poetic past than in a sternly realized
present. It was an episode to remember
and to live over again in fancy, just as
often as circumstances or caprice dictated ;
but to be repeated only in a dreamland
peopled with imponderable visionary
maidens. Sir Crowsby A\eyland stepped
uninvited into the drawing-room, and cast
his eyes upon the tumbled sofa-cushions
where the fair bright head had lain. It
was gone, and the place looked very bare ;
the room appeared the worse for the desertion
of the evening ; the blinds were up,

the lamp had burnt down and was smoking,
and the disorder of Aurea's distress yet
seemed to linger when the interest of her
presence had fled.

You are right,' said Jessie, observing

the direction but mistaking the nature of

his thoughts. ' It would be better to consult

Miss Chapel; she may be able to give us

some information about the lad who is said

to have interfered on her behalf. She was

asleep when I came down ; but it will be

better to awaken her, in case there should

be any truth in this dreadful story. She is

calmer now, and may be able to recollect

what happened. You know the Dailyss,

Sir Crowsby ; they are old tenants, of yours.

I am really anxious about the lad Adam 

it was his first day in the tile-yard. I have

been sitting with his mother the whole

afternoon in that tiny thatched cottage

down by the fen, and she was very anxious

about her son Adam. His father had sent

him to Cutthorpe against his will, and
they're such a rough set, I'm informed, in
that tilery.'

You have no proof that it's Daily's
lad.'

Only a woman's proof  the proof of my
fears, Sir Crowsby ; but Miss Chapel may
know. I will ask her.'

 Poor little fugitive bride !' thought Sir
Crowsby ; 'it's a pity that she should not
be left to sleep) in peace. The child will
dream that the enemies she has but just
escaped from are knocking at her door ; but
women have no consideration for one
another.'

Mrs. Smith, had she heard these thoughts,
could have told Sir Crowsby that the men
who utter such sentiments are responsible
for the experiences from which they have
learned them.

Aurea,' said Jessie, entering gently.

Aurea started and sat uj, shaded her

eyes from the light, and for a moment
was lost in surprise ; the next, surprise
changed into irritation as she realized that
she had been recalled from a land of desirable
forgetfulness to one of perplexed remembrance.
But adorer in its turn was
instantly subdued by the instinct of good-breeding,
which instinct, carelessly inherited
or painstakingly acquired, is curiously strong
strong enough not only to subdue such
temporary annoyances, but even to master
the tragic presentments of disease, bereavement
and death. So Aurea sat up in bed,
drew her hands across her eyes, and
pleasantly asked what Mrs. Smith wanted
to know.

I am very sorry to disturb you, dear,
but there is a report that a lad has been
seriously injured by the roughs who
molested you, in endeavouring to cover
your escape ; did you see anything of such
an occurrence ?'

They seemed all to be fighting together,'
said Aurea, ' when I ran away. Oh yes ;
I fancy one big fellow did tell me to run :
but I was so frightened I really did not'
take any notice of what they were saying,
and I thought it was best not to seem to
attend.'

AYhat was he like ? Did you happen
to see ?'

Oh, the most disreputable - looking
creature ; quite the worst of them all ;
covered with clay and mud, his clothes
torn, and looking as if he had come fiom
the butcher's yard! It perfectly makes me
shudder to think of him !'

Then that could not have been my
friend Adam Daily.'

Adam Daily? is that the name of the boy
you want ? I seem to have heard it somewhere.
Oh yes ; it was the old woman. Dear
me, she quite went out of my poor distracted
head until this very minute I Mrs. Smith,

there was an old pauper-woman standing
near the Workhouse gates when I was
passing by, and I stopped to ask her my
way. She seemed a queer garrulous old
thing, as those poor women generally are.
She was very anxious, too, about where I
was going; and when she had settled it to
her own satisfaction, she wanted to give mea
message to you  about her grandson, I
think she said it was. I was to be sure and
tell you he would be murdered, or some
such nonsense as that. I suspected, you
know, that she had been out to see her
friends, and that she had made the most of
her opportunities, so that she really did not
know what she was saying, and I did not
take much notice ; in fact, I was glad to be
rid of her company. In a general way, I
make it a rule never to ask my way of
anything but a man ; a woman is sure
to say always either too little or too much.
If she isn't stupid, and ignorant that such a

place as you ask for exists at all, she is
inquisitive, and wants to know, not only
where you are going, but what you are
going to do when you get there. I like
men always much better than women  don't
you, Mrs. Smith ?'

Especially if I have a message that 1
want safely carried, Aurea, and that may
make all the difference between life and
death for some one that I care for very
much !'

Now, Mrs. Smith, that is too bad !
How could I be expected to remember
when I'd got all manner of troubles on my
own mind, and when I was quite a stranger,
and it ought to have been my wedding-day,
only I felt it couldn't ?'

Jessie said nothing, simply because she
was considering: the message which she had
just received ; but Aurea, mistaking the
silence for rebuke, added with a quick
escape of temper :

This is positively too much ! If that
boy or any other did get hurt in my service,
of course I shall make it up to him tomorrow
; but it really is not my fault if
the people in Cutthorpe are accustomed
to murdering each other. It seems to me
that the people here are a most disgraceful
set of roughs. It is the first time I ever
was, in any town in England or out of it,
where a lady could not walk through the
streets in broad daylight without being
insulted. This is the result of trade, I
suppose, whom the manners of the people.
I have always heard that in manufacturing
towns they are all roughs and
Radicals.'

Then if I were you,' said Mrs. Smith,
smiling ' I'd be content without o-ettinof to
the root of the matter to-nio;lit. Lie down
and go to sleep. You shall not be disturbed
any more.'

Jessie descended to consult with Sir
VOL. II. 37

Crosby, and the result of their conversation
was, that that gentleman immediately
started for Cutthorpe, and went straight to
the infirmary.

A NIGHT IN THE Infirmary.

ils ancient story of the Fenlands
tells how in the eleventh year
of the reign of King Edward
III., a painstaking inquirer, by name
Robert of Rotherham, being anxious to
obtain incontestable proof of the actual
existence of those evil spirits by which
these watery wastes were said to be haunted,
made an agreement with a native of those
parts, one John of Then, that he should
duly deliver over to him within four days,
bound with a stout rope, one substantial

372

devil (' iiniim diabolic '), in proper person ;
and as earnest-money of this bargain, paid
him the sum of three pence. That the
contract was not fulfilled, and that action
at law before the court of the neighbouring
manor was thereupon taken by the devil-seeker
against the devil-monger, is matter
of subsequent record ; further, it is told
how the court got out of its difficulties by
the prudent decision that ' no such plea
could lie between Christians,' and how it
thereupon adjourned the case to more
suitable regions (' usque in Infernal ') where
both parties no doubt would find judgment,
contenting itself only With the decent hope
that ' the Lord might have mercy on their
souls.'

Sir Crowsby Weyland happened to
possess the interesting folio of King Charles
Ii's time, in which this translation is
duly recorded, and he had also made himself
sufficiently acquainted with the treatment

which the blessed St. Guthlac was
said to have received at the claws of the
diabolic denizens of these lands ; and St.
Guthlac's experiences were forcibly recalled
to his ]memory now, when he stood at the
foot of the infirmary stairs. What dire
deed was being done ? Involuntarily Sir
Crowsby AVeyland paused. Shriek followed
upon shriek ; heart-rending cries filled the
air, whilst old Jones the porter, who had
acted as his guide, hobbled oiF, muttering
curses between his toothless jaws. Having
learnt that Adam Daily had been carried in
alive, from him  Sir Crowsby Weyland
feared  must proceed the agonized outcries
which came from above.

Good heavens ! are they torturing the
Wretch ?' he exclaimed, as he hesitated in
the doorway. ' Is it possible that the
parsimony of the parish extends to anaesthetics
? They must be taking off the
lad's limbs without chloroform.'

The narrow passage was in darkness save
for the glimmer of the moonlight which
Jones had admitted by opening the outer
door ; but above, a flickering tallow-candle
spluttered upon the landing, and ina
pause of sound the murmur of men's
voices mioht be heard in consultation : then
came renewed shrieks, mingled with 
and sobs of anguish. Inaction becoming
unendurable, Sir Crowsby Weyland
took the stone steps three by three, and
reached the narrow landing. There, as he
paused before the doors of the divided
rooms above, uncertain which doorway to
enter, the cries once more died down, and
these unexpected words, audibly breathed
with long, anguished groans, fell upon his
astonished ears  ' Hie expiravit pro populo
mortuus. Pro populo mortuus expiravit.'
Aided by their direction, Sir Crowsby
pushed open the first of two doors that
fronted him, and found himself in the

centre of a bare room, along whose whitewashed
walls his own shadow glided with a
ghostly motion. Three empty beds, a table,
a chair, an old woman swaying herself
backwards and forwards in helpless, inarticulate
grief ; and on the fourth bed,
by which she knelt, a shapeless outline
which agitated the meagre coverings, and
in now almost inarticulate language bewailed
its fate in words strangely at
variance with its condition and its surroundings.
As Sir Crowsby approached
the bed, vague wandering sounds succeeded.
The sufferer seemed to be agitated by the
delirious imagination of some violent death-scene.
At one instant he was excitedly
disputing, at the next passively yielding
his life in a deadly contest with some
visionary assailant. Xow a combatant,
now a martyr, he alternately disputed his
ground inch by mich in defence of some
weaker combatant, and breathed out his

soul in the weird phrase which Sir Crowsby
suddenly remembered to have read on the
tombstone of the local hero in the chancel
of the parish church of St. Stephen's.

This won't do,' said the visitor, with
the robust cheerfulness which characterizes
the benevolent spectator. ' Why, this must
be the lad of whom I've heard my nephews
speak so often. Your grandson, no doubt.
Come, Mrs. Daily  for that is your name, I
suppose  try and jduII yourself together,
and 2;0 and find the doctor. Adhere iso



he?'

In the next room.'

 AVell, then, go and tell him Sir
Crowsby Weyland has come to see his
patient, and finds him in a high state of
fever.'

But the old woman shook her head, and
refused to stir.

'He is passing. Sir Crowsby; he is
passing. It is the enemy of us all that

is wrestling with him in the Valley of
the Shadow of Death. It is what we must
all come to. He has been a good lad, and
the eldest of thirteen. But being born a
child of wrath, not the lord of the manor,
nor vet the Lord of Heaven Himself, can't
deliver him now. Neo, nor yet the doctor
neither. The devil is bomid to have
his day with every one of us, first or
last'

Is it possible that the popular imagination
in the reign of Queen Victoria, as in
the eleventh year of the reign of King
Edward III., is still thus devil-bound?'
thought Sir Crowsby.

Before, however, he could oppose commonsense
to religious prejudice, piercing and
shrill, from the other side of the canvas
partition which divided the ward into two
separate rooms, rose the cries he had heard
on his first entry. These proceeded, as Sir
Crowsby now ascertained, from a misguided

young woman who had been picked up in
the street in a fit.

The unfortunate Adam, recalled for a
moment to his senses by the nerve torturing
sound, entreated :

Oh, take me out into the open, into the
dark still night ! Sir  granny, if you love
me, lay me down in the damp, cool grass
by Diggory's Dyke, and let me die in
peace!'

'Hark to him!' cried the old woman,
with a sudden change of mental attitude,
recognising at once the momentary amelioration
of his condition. ' Why, my boy, it
costs a lot to die in ]peace. 'Isn't for such
as you and me. The poor must learn to
live and die in heaps. The} pack us close
even below the sods. Why, sir,' she cried,
rising to her feet, spreading her hands, and
facing Sir Crowsby in a tragic attitude
which art might imitate, but which strong-feeling
alone could initiate  ' sir, listen tome

! When that lad's grandfather, my own
lawful man, was laid by the parish in the
graveyard dovn below, there were five
coffins piled in the narrow path. Five
rough deal coffins, three o' one side and
two o' the other, no better planed nor
joined than the grocers' boxes that crosses
the sea with Portugal onions and Spanish
oranges bursting out o' their split sides ;
and the church parson, he stood in the
midst and read the words once for a paying
funeral that was resting handy on a decent
trestle covered with a velvet pall, and made
it do for the lot ; and though the young
woman as was laid on the top was not two
feet below the moulds, yet my old man,
that died o' the rheumatics, was soddened
in the stagnant water that filled the bottom
of the pit ! That's how they always do it
if they get the chance ; they put us in when
the chaplain's on for a regular undertaker's
job, and asks the relations o' the paying



-/' f cM

corpse to be so good as to excuse the
liberty. And if you don't believe an old
pauper's tale, ask my son James, the father
of this lad here. He was a strong young
man then ; but he come over so with what
he saw o' the way the parish put the job
through, that he entered himself in a Burial
Club from that very night at sixpence a
week, and he's there now. But he's been
too poor to put in his family, and this one
hasn't a chance to lie, as he should, decent
against the judgment-day.'

Sir Crowsby Weyland, alarmed for the
effect of this doleful prognostication upon
Adam's returning senses, and anxious to
cut the dialoOTC short, turned to summon
the doctor from the next room, and by so
doing silenced the outcries of the hysteric
patient therein ; but Adam appeared indifferent
to, or unconscious of, what had
been said. Soon the master and the matron
also re-appeared by Adam's bedside, and indue

course Jones, the porter, ascended the
stone stairs laden with all the comforts
which the doctor's present attention could
suggest, and Sir Crowsby's benevolent
intentions supply. To Jones succeeded
James Daily, in obedience to a message
which Jessie had sent to him.

The thatcher approached his son in a
sloan and awkward manner, and then tried
to shake him by the hand. For James
Daily this was the highest expression of
feeling ; it was in itself a recognition of
his son having become an independent
individual  a man, in short, and one he
was proud of. But unfortunately his
attempt was made upon the wounded side,
and both the doctor and the matron rushed
forward to prevent his intention, which
had the unlucky effect of making him
shamefaced, and consequently angry.
Glancing defiantly at the innocent alleviations
which Sir Crowsby had provided,

as though that gentleman had taken a
liberty in caring for the comfort of his
son, he said:

Ah well, I must leave him to you. I
hope you know what to do with him
among you, for I don't. I'd have had
him home, but they lie so thick in our
place there's no room for broken bones.
You would have thought now,' he continued,
' that a teat lad like that misbehave
kept himself off the parish for one
day, when I've kept myself and all of
'em off for thirty-five years and more.'

Sir Crows' raised a warnings hand, for
this time the sufferer moved uneasily; his
father's words had clearly reached him.

Well, I'll look in tomorrow in my
dinner-hour,' added James Daily. ' I'll
leave him to you, mother : I take it they'll
let you see to him.'

 How indifferent the fellow is I ' thought
Sir Crowsby, who lingered yet, in the

vain hope of extracting from the master
or the matron farther particulars as to
the details of the assault upon the yomig
lady in whose defence Adam was said
to have suffered; but James Daily was
not indifferent : it was simply that sober
men of his class have not the lano-uaoe
of feeling at command. He stood, turning
his shapeless workman's hat round
and round in his hands, whilst the doctor
was giving his instructions and final encouragement
to the desponding grandmother;
then, seeing Sir Crowsby Wayland
about to follow the workhouse
authorities and the doctor down the stairs,
he went up to him awkwardly and
stopped him, just by the door, abruptly,
saying:

'Excuse the liberty, sir, but might I
make so bold as to ask the favour of a
loan ?'

Begging, actually,' thought Sir Crowsby;

 these fellows positively have no affections,
and are without the decency which simulates
them. Why I have just covered the lad's
table with comforts.'

'No, sir,' said the man thus misjudged;
offended, and quick to guess the thought
from the manner. 'No, sir, it's nothing of
that; and if you'll let me know what those
things costs, I'll pay you something down,
and the rest as I can. It's only the loan of
a document, sir, that you've got in your
family box at the Ferry, so I'm informed.
That lady at the Vicarage  Mr. Smith's
daughter-in-law, so she gives out  advised
me to read it. It's the writing o' the
tenancy of Sodden Farm.'

And pray what have you or that lady
to do with my family papers ?'

What has she got to do with it? Well,
sir, it's this way; she passed my place a
night ago, wandering down by the Fen,
and as I was drawing my pipe up aloft,

she oot into conversation with me about
my son there, wanting to take him into
her service. But then she let out as she
reckoned herself son's wife to old Mr.
Smith, and as such, had her eye on
the farm by the Fen, which isn't neither
hers nor his, nor yet his son's, if he's
unburied, which isn't likely, but mine ;
mine and my son's lying there, if everyone
had their lawful rights. Well, when
I heard that, I just told her my mind,
and refused her the service of my flesh
and blood. She answered me back out
of a document that she said you'd got
in your keeping, and of which Mr. Smith
must have told her, for she hasn't been
long enough in the place to find it out for
herself.'

Come down to the Ferry tomorrow,
and if I can find it, I will read it to you,'
said Sir Crowsby. ' I never spare valuable
papers out of my ovn possession, and with-vol.

II. 38

out any disrespect to your education, Mr.
Daily, I think you might find the writing
hard to decipher; but mind, I'm not going to
aid and abet you in any of your fancies about
my friend Mr. Smith. If he has found his
daughter-in-law, I am very glad of it for
his sake.'

Was there any doubt but he'd find her,'
retorted James Daily grimly, ' when his
will had been known to be kept waiting
for her since my lad there was ten years
old?'

At this moment Adam, revived by the
administration of remedies, and by the noise
of voices, spoke feebly :

I want her ; I want Mrs. Smith.'
James Daily scowled ; but Sir Crowsby

answered :

'By all means, my boy; she begged me
to inquire after you, and to let her know
how you are.'

Father, I want her to come,' pleaded

Adam, with the feeble insistance of suffering,
yet mindful of the former prohibition.


And so she shall come,' said Grandmother
Daily, ' if you will only lie still now
and go to sleep;' and even James Daily did
not venture to say no. He was overawed
by the presence of suffering which he did
not understand ; by the presence of Sir
Crowsby Weyland, with whom he wished to
keep upon terms for the sake of hearing the
contents of that document ; by the presence
of his determined old mother, whose will
was the only one that had ever controlled
his own.

As Sir Crowsby AVeyland returned to the
Ferry that night, he promised himself that
Mr. Eout should be made to feel his responsibility
for a standard of conduct amongst
his work people which rendered it possible
that a well-bred young lady passing through
the town in the broad light of day should

S8 2

become the unwilling heroine in a fray between
the factory-hands, and should owe an
unpoetic and embarrassing deliverance to
the sturdy arm of a thatcher's son. It is
to be feared that in his prejudiced judgment
the rancorous estimate of class-ins my
obscured the recollection of class indebtedness.


Chapter

I. AN UNFORTUNATE POSITION
II. SOIklEWHAT CONTRADICTORY

III. LOVE OR MONEY

IV. THE OLD Fowling-piece
V. GOLDEN PROMISES -

VL IN THE MOOD FOR ACTION
VIL Outward BOUND -
Vii SHE WAS RIGHT
IX. A NIGHT WATCH
X. QUITE A GENTLEMAN
XL A GARDEN OF PLEASURE -














THE Daily OF Sodden FEN.

CHAPTER I.

AN UNFORTUNATE POSITION.

iHE recoil of all the expectations
which she had raised, caused the
tide of feeling to set strongly
against Aurea Chapel in the village of Glen
Combe. But the crest of the same wave
by which she was buffeted, lifted Leopold
Stuckley high into popular sympathy.
Everyone pitied his wrongs. Aurea had no
partizans down in Devonshire. She had
only lived in Glen Combe for a year. What
Vol III. 39

did anyone know of her antecedents? She
had been educated abroad and had learnt
foreign ways. Neo one dreamt of taking
any pains to get her back again ; least of all
her forsaken lover, who, with an uneasy
conscience but a brassart air, declared himself
well rid of such an unmanageable bride.
Being, in simple truth, ashamed to face her,
and in no doubt whatever as to the real
motive which had inspired her conduct  in
fact her letter to him left no possibility of
such a misunderstanding  he stayed where
he was, and made the most of his unfortunate
position. This line of conduct perhaps
was dictated to him by the attitude of
Aurea's uncle and aunt as well as by strictly
prudential private motives. The old gentleman
and lady contented themselves by
writing a full and particular report of his
daughter's proceedings to Mr. Chapel, out
in Rome, and accompanying the letter by
the bills for the projected festivities. Then

having ordered the servants to pack up Miss
Chapel's things, they settled themselves
down, to be at last as comfortable as they
had been before Aurea's mother came back
to die in her former home, leaving her
daughter upon their hands.

 After all, Aurea had got a father, and he
must henceforth make himself responsible
for her ;' so Aurea's aunt told Mrs. Apers
when bitterly commenting upon the turn of
these events. The strange thing was that
to all their urgent communications, Mr.
Chapel answered nothing. Xo replies Whatever
came from Rome, although the days
grew into weeks and the letters of complaint
and representation became more
and more urgent as the silence remained
unbroken.

When it became generally known in Glen
Combe that Slumsby Vicarage had been the
place selected by the runaway bride for a
refuge, nothing but the persistent presence

392

of young Mr. Apers in their midst could
have stemmed the torrent of gossip. George
Apers found it necessary perpetually to
show himself, to let no soul in the place,
and least of all his own mother or Aurea's
aunt, imaof-ine that he had the slightest
intention of returning; to his yicara2:e in
Slumsby, so long as the young lady was
one of its occupants. In repeating this
assurance, George bore such a calm front,
seemed so little agitated by the ferment
going on around him, and so persistently
referred the aunt or mother to his sister
Jessie for any information about ]\Iiss
Chapel, that within a month, family opinion
had veered completely round, and it was
unanimously decided that he at least
could have had nothing to do with Aurea's
selection of a retreat. This was just what
George had desired, and in all his weariness
of the circumstances and conditions of his
present life of self-denial, he comforted

himself by the consideration that she at
least would appreciate his conduct and
would understand the motives which had
influenced him. This was the conviction
which kept him patient away from her, so
long as all he could do to serve her was to
protect her name at a distance.

Aurea meanwhile was daily entertaining
Sir Crowsby Weyland, who found it necessary
to call every afternoon to inquire after
her health, since he had been a witness of
her precipitate entrance into the Vicarage.
Far from comprehending the sacrifice which
George Apers was making for her and the
very important service which he had
rendered her, before the end of a month she
was childishly longing for the mere excitement
of his return, and was more annoyed
than she would have cared to confess by
the simple fact of his absence. Moreover,
she was exceedingly troubled by her father's
unbroken silence. Was he so angry with

what he had heard, that he would not even
have her back?

Only the echoes of the storm at Glen
Combe had reached Aurea at all ; Jessie m
Slumsby and George at Glen Combe, had
both combined in order to shield her, and
she had been suffered to go on without
understanding either the stress of the
situation or the cost which others had incurred
to meet it. Leopold had not come
after her at all, nobody had tried to get her
back, and she had only had some very
disagreeable letters, which she could burn,
when Jessie had counselled silence or had
dictated the necessary answers ; and really
it had proved in the end to be very much
the best way out of a difficulty to run away
from it, and not half so unpleasant subsequently
as might have been expected. This
was the conclusion she had arrived at.

But at the end of the month which her
father's continued silenced compelled her to

remain at Slumsby, Aurea's anxiety to hear
of him, and other inferior motives, decided
her to take the final step of going out to
Italy to join Mr. Chapel uninvited. Moreover,
it had become intolerable to her pride
to remain any longer George Apers's involuntary
and uncounted guest. This
decision she announced to Sir Crowsby
AVeyland one afternoon when he and she
were sitting together, as they had often done
of late, in George Apers's shady room.

Well, I'm really going, Sir Crowsby, on
Thursday, and this is Tuesday. All my
things have been sent fiom Glen Combe,
and I shall do my packing tomorrow.
Whether I hear from papa or not, I shall goat
once to Tivoli and join him there ; I've
quite made up my mind.'

So you have already informed me. Miss
Chapel, more often than has been at all good
for me to hear,' said Sir Crowsby, gallantly.

I'm sure I've stayed here a great deal

longer than it is good for me to bear
retorted Aurea.

The signs of endurance are not too
apparent, at any rate, in the shaded light of
Mrs. Smith's drawing-room, Miss Chapel.
From my discreet post of observation in
Mr. Apers's easy chair, I see no streaks of
silver mingling with that golden chevelure,
nor any tokens of decay in the freshness of
that sheeny toilet.'

'Now, Sir Crosby, how often am I to
tell you that you flatter very badly indeed,
for a man who has had the extensive social
experience you so often lay claim to? I
wonder that you should attempt it. If
I where a man I should be ashamed not todo
it better, if I went in for that sort of
thing at all. You should do a thing well, or
let it alone. And with regard to my dress,
it's a Paris fit, and it would be presumption
on the part of any man to suppose he could
compliment it.'

*I had merely ventured to assume the
privilege of an old friend.'

Of " an old friend " yrhen you've known
me  how many days is it?'

Nearly a month, Miss Chapel. Three
weeks and four days since first I entered
this room and was quite unmoved by your
ring at the door-bell.'

 The most valued privilege of an old
friend is that of forgetting one as soon as
possible ; but you are not an old friend,
and under present circumstances are never
likely to become so,' continued Aurea.

* Then you confidently expect me always
to remember you?'

I fully expect you to range me among
your other reminiscences.'

You flatter my memory, Miss Chapel.
I have not found it such a store-house of
pleasant pictures.'

And you my imagination or invention.
Sir Crowsby, if you deny the innocent

accusation. But hadn't you better pick up
that particularly well-brushed hat and come
for a turn in the garden ? Incidentally it
may spare my best feather-fan, which you
have made the victim of your destructive
propensities. Outside you can do nothing
worse than flick the heads off Mrs. Smith's
tallest flowers with your cane  that
amuses you, you know.'

I shouldn't have said that it did.'

Neither should I a month ago ; but I've
learnt better now. Why, you come everyday,
and you never think of ringing the
door-bell, and you always select the afternoons
when Mrs. Smith has gone to sit
with her prodigy at the infirmary, and
when the responsibility of entertaining you
will be thrown entirely upon my hands.'

They make so light of the burden it
would be quite a pity to relieve them of it.'

Oh, they will relieve themselves when
they are tired of it, as I have already informed

you ; and perhaps it is just as well
that you have been here to be talked to.
What should I have done with only Mrs.
Smith, and the cocks and the hens and the
messages from the village ; and that old
farmer, her father-in-law ; and the endless
conversations about that factory lad that
she's making such a hero of ? Just imagine
what an existence for me for a whole month,
with no more interesting subject of conversation
than the details of that dreadful
boy's illness. It's perfectly aggravating to
hear. Confess now, Sir Crowsby, isn't it
dreadfully wearing to be told every day
how very bad he has been, and how very
well he is getting over it ; how much he is
growing in mind and in body, how well his
ribs are mending, and how much he is
improved in his reading; what a superior
intellect he has, and what a retentive
memory ; what an amazing thirst for information,
and what a satisfactory appetite

for beef tea ? Positively I hate the very sound
of his name, and such a name as it is too ;
and the worst of it all is, that the people
here actually seem to suppose that he broke
every rib in his body for me. I verily
believe that Mrs. Smith thinks I owe him a
debt of lifelong gratitude. It's disgusting,
perfectly disgusting ; and you'd know it
yourself, Sir Crowsby Weyland, if you
could be me.'

Don't you think you had better calm
down and give me something to carry for
you? It's a hot day.'

AYhat should I want carried ? My
goloshes or a camp-stool? By the time
I want anything carried for me, I expect
to have no one to do it. That is always the
way. But about this affair now. I verily
believe Mrs. Smith thinks I owe Adam
Daily a debt of lifelong gratitude. Why, it's
ridiculous. Those boys had been fighting
all the morning in the brick-yard. The

foreman admitted it himself. That very
lad had been beaten and kicked by his
companions vhen they were all working
together, and all that fuss in the street
was simply the outcome of the same quarrel,
with which I had really nothing to do.
Why, this fellow was simply the most
disreputable-looking of the whole lot ; and
yet, to hear Mrs. Smith talk, you would
think he was some aristocratic and chivalrous
knight of the Middle Ages  one of
those people with broken noses and toes,
that have effigies in the cathedrals, whose
armour has been presented to the local
museums, and who, when they were alive,
were always quarrelling with each other
and getting some poor woman into trouble
by taking her part when it didn't want
taking.'

The shades of my knightly ancestors
salute you, Miss Chapel,' said Sir Crowsby,
smiling.

But Aurea went on vehemently, not
heeding the interruption :

But this is infinitely more disagreeable,
because at worst you could marry those
musty old knights, if they got tired of
picking up your faded flowers or dissatisfied
with secreting your crumpled pocket-handkerchiefs.
If YOU were miserable ever after
it didn't so much matter, because they went
to the wars and got killed, and you stayed
at home and did worsted-work in a tower.
But here's a fellow that it's quite impossible
to know what to do with. And the worst
of it is, that here I've been writing to papa
day after day for three weeks to tell him
what has occurred, and he won't send meany
answer, nor tell me what I am to do for
the creature. The fact is, you know. Sir
Crowsby, I am dreadfully hard up. I want
some money.'

I'm in a precisely similar case. Miss
Chapel, but I have unfortunately no father

to draw upon for supplies. On the contrary,
I occupy that trying position myself with
regard to  extravagant nephews.'

I can feel for them,' said Aurea, flirting
her parasol, ' for at the rate at which papa is
neglecting my present support I shall soon
be in an equally dependent position. I do
wish he would write to me. I've not had a
line since I left Glen Combe. I know that
he always has been very bad about writing,
but he has never kept me without money
before. I've always had a good deal, and
have spent it. If it was anyone else, I
should be afraid that something must have
happened to him  that he must be ill, or
something; but papa never has any events
in his life, only feelings. I suppose he
isn't pleased to think that I am still myself,
and am likely to turn up again on his hands
at an early date. He was awfully tired
of the responsibility of me, I really do
believe.'

I can quite understand that,' said Sir
Crowsby.

Aurea flashed a doubtful look upon
him.

Take care, Sir Crowsby; you can go too
far. You sometimes do.'

Excuse me, I was only for a moment
trying to imagine myself in the position of
your father. I dare say you would find no
difficulty in such an imagination.'

On the contrary, my fancy altogether
declines to picture you in such a false
position.'

Then pray preserve your fancy, like
everything else about you, absolutely unchanged,
for I am best satisfied so.'

So am I. I don't want two fathers, but
I would like to know that the one I have
expects me, and that he will give me some
kind of welcome when he sees me arrive.'

You have quite made up your mind to
leave us, then?'

Oh, quite. I want to get back to the
sun and the sculptors, and to all the ridiculous
Italian society that I had fully decided
never to see again. Papa will be awfully
sorry to see me ; that is the worst of the
prospect.'

Mr. Chapel's taste must be very peculiar.'


Not at all. " Other people appear to be
thoroughly of the same mind. Mr. George
Apers, for instance, has stayed away a whole
month, to the great discomfiture of his
churchwarden, Mr. Smith ; but when his
sister sent him word that I was leaving on
Thursday, he forthwith returned for answer
that he was coming home on Friday.'

Perhaps he feels that your service,
although undoubtedly a pleasure, would
be a very exciting one, and one not altogether
unmixed with danger,' said Sir
Crowsby; 'you are very dangerous, you
know.'

VOL. III. 40

Then, if you had been in George Apers's
place, that is how you would have acted, I
suppose ?'

No, Miss Chapel, I am a rasher man ;
but then I have not the advantage, or the
disadvantage of being a clergyman, and the
conduct of a clergyman can never safely be
inferred from the feelings of a layman.
But looking at the situation from my
inferior point of view, it certainly does
seem to me that if I were in Mr. Apers's
position I should be tempted to try my
fortune in a great many agreeable ways
from which, as Sir Crowsby Weyland, I am
now rigorously debarred.'

Aurea opened her eyes with genuine
surprise.

'What can there be which as George
Apers you would undertake, that you are
not doubly able to perform, being Sir
Crowsby Weyland ?'

In the first place, I should immediately

claim all the privileges which Miss Chapel
might be disposed to grant to an old
friend.'

Then that means to say returned Amea
with warmth, ' that you would stay away
when you might come home, and when all
the parish is wondering what has become
of you, simply because Miss Chapel
happened to be in your house. That
means to say, that you would not send a
line or a word or a message to deliver her
from the embarrassment of her indebtedness
to your hospitality ; but that you would
leave her to be entertained entirely by
your sister, who never was a special
friend of hers, and with whom she has
little in common. That means to say,
that without any pretence of a reason,
having absented yourself thus for a whole
month, until the moment that you heard
Miss Chapel was going, you would then immediately
announce your return for the day

402

following lier departure. Ah, an " old
friend" is the last thing in the AYorld
to be depended upon ; much better have
a succession of new ones.'

Perhaps now you will permit me to say
what my reading of the same passage might
be, Miss Chapel ? If I were an old friend,
say George Apers, instead of a new one,
say Crowsby Weyland, I should find
myself a man with youth and wealth and
fortune all absolutely well-preserved and
ready to be laid at the feet of any woman
at whose disposition I might feel it an
honour to place them: and that being
so '

 George Apers !' interrupted Aurea.
Why, he is the Vicar of Slumsby ; he is
young and good-looking, and he is gentlemanly
and all that, I daresay ; and he can
be a very pleasant companion,' she added,
with the memory of a certain evenings
to Sir Crowsby. ' But '

'He is the heir to an estate twice as
extensive as Slumsby Manor, carefully
nursed during the incapacity of his father
by a parsimoniously economical mother;
with no one to divide his expectations, nor
to double his expenses. His mother, I
have heard, has her jointure. Mrs. Smith
has the first Mrs. Apers's humble reversion,
and Apers has only to wait for the extinction
of that feeble flame of life which
flickers in his father to be in a far better
position to carry any wishes he may happen
to entertain than ever can be my less
enviable lot. I am his senior by a dozen
years : my estate and I are both burdened
with liabilities, to use a commercial term,
which in this instance must be held to
include a widowed sister and five rapacious
nephews.'

Well, I cannot be such a worldly girl as
I have always considered myself,' cried
Aurea, letting her parasol fall in surprise.

*Do you know that none of all this has
ever occurred to me before ? After this I
shall be quite proud of myself. Flatter me
again now if you like, and I will believe
every word that you say, if you will only
stick to my disposition.'

'I know nothing whatever about your
disposition, and having succeeded so badly
in expressing my admiration of that which
I flattered myself that I did know, namely,
the outer presentment of Miss Aurea
Chapel, I am not tempted to try my luck
any further.'

Then you mean to say that if you had
been in George Apers's place you would
have acted exactly as he has done ?'

Not at all. All that I mean to say is,
that pending the turning of the next leaf of
the chapter, I think it very possible that I
can understand both his motives and his
conduct.'

AVell, but if you know all about men,

and how they think and feel and act, so
much better than you see a girl like me can
hope to do, and if you know all about
women too, and if you have had so much
experience in people's stories, and all the
rest of it '

Why will you attribute to me such
heroic utterances, Miss Chapel ?'

If you would but let me finish my sentence
! It was but the simple prelude to a
very important question. As a new friend,
what would you expect me to do if you
were to treat me as an old one ? say, for
instance, as George Apers has done ?'

Candidly, Miss Chapel, as you ask me
plainly, I should confidently expect you to
run away from me.'

Aurea furled her gay parasol and turned
deliberately into the house.

I have already told you, Sir Crowsby
Weyland, that any such allusion I take to
be an insult. I shall not remind you of

this again. I am sorry that I am not a
man, and I could call you out.'

Permit me to apologize, Miss Chapel.
It was unintentional, I assure you. No
such meaning as you would suggest was
hidden beneath my stupid words ; they
had reference solely to sour proposed
departure.'

No, you shall not apologize. It costs
you nothing. You are one of those men
that are always apologizing to women.
They enjoy doing it ; I will not accept
an apology ! If you call tomorrow you
will not find me in the drawing-room ;
and as for the garden, I shall not enter
it again. I wish you Good-bye,' and she
turned away resolutely, leaving Sir
Crowsby no other alternative but to depart.

jessie,' said Aurea later on that same
day, as they sat over their tea, ' do you
believe that Sir Crowsby Weyland speaks
the truth?'

Why should you ask me, Aurea, when
you've seen so very much more of him than
I have?'

Oh, knowledge doesn't go by length
of time. You'd see more in half-an-hour
than I should see, or wish to see, in a
week. As I prefer acting upon no particular
principles, and from any sort of
motive myself, I am the last person to
see .far into the reason of anyone else's
conduct. I always accept what people tell
me about themselves, and if after that
they deceive me, it's their affair and not
mine; but please answer me seriously.'

AVell, if you ask me seriously, Aurea,
I should say, sometimes. I fancy that Sir
Crowsby Weyland is neither more nor less
truthful than most men of this character
and class. They speak the truth amongst
themselves to each other.'

But they tell lies to women, is that
what you mean ?'

'Well, not exactly "lies"; but they
have a special style of conversation especially
reserved for our use, or at any rate
for the use of such of us as they think
it worth while to try and please. With
a very ugly or insignificant woman, with
a very stupid or socially unimportant
woman, the special style is commonly laid
aside ; and its use is always doubtful when
a woman has past her five-ands thirtieth
year, or if she has shown the bad taste to
go and get married to someone else, whilst
the gentleman in question was still an
eligible bachelor.

I'm sure then, Jessie, you needn't say
that of Sir Crowsby, for he treats you to
the " special style of conversation " quite
as much as he does me, whenever you
give him a chance of meetings you, which
to be sure isn't often.'

Yes, and he is so puzzled to think why
he does it. He is always thinking about

my connection with dear old Mr. Smith,
and wondering why he's so civil to me.
It amuses me to observe the struggle going
on in his mind.'

He can't help himself. You keep him
to his company manners.'

On the contrary, I'd very much rather
hear him say one single thing that he really
means. Conversation which is intended to
indicate the speaker's estimate of himself,
and which is a tacit demand that society
should accept that estimate  conversation
which puts hearer and speaker upon a
certain assumed social platform, thereby
making the exclusion of others the virtual
basis of intercourse, is not to my taste ;
but then from Sir Crowsby's point of view,
it's not the right thing to say anything that
you really feel in society, and he never consciously
neglects the laws of good breeding.



How sarcastic you can be when you

choose' ! Do you know, I think Tve heard
him say something that he really means this
afternoon.'

Jessie glanced quickly up at the girl in
order to ask and answer for herself a question
which she would not choose to put
in words; and which, up to this moment,
circumstances had never suo Guessed to her.
Although absolutely ignorant of that exciting
episode between her brother and Aurea
Chapel, which had taken place in the moonlit
gardens at Glen Combe, yet the fact that
Aurea had selected Slumsby Vicarage asher
place of refuge when she fled from her
rejected bridegroom, sufficiently indicated,
so Jessie's sisterly partiality had thought,
the bent of that young lady's inclination.
Under the influence of this unspoken impression,
the idea of Sir Crowsby Weyland
as another possible suitor had never crossed
Mrs. Smith's mind, until Aurea herself
suggested it by the turn which she gave

to the conversation. The gentleman came
every day, it is true ; but Jessie would
have considered it beneath her to accept
the post of duenna. With her strong views
as to the desirability of unfettered freedom
in the daily intercourse of well-bred men
and women, she had rejoiced to see that
Aurea found points of attraction in Sir
Crowsby Weyland's society, which her own
more serious nature failed to supply. To
have interfered to limit or restrain the
pleasant intercourse going on thus openly
under her eves, would have been a task
which her judgment and her taste alike
would have declined. Mrs. Smith had always
thought that the more men and women
learnt to knoAv each other and the freer
the opportunities that could be given
for 023en-hearted and open-minded companionship,
the better. Conventional regulations
of society, which were made to
protect unworthy men and untrustworthy

women against themselves, should not, she
held, be permitted to forge fetters for the
restraint of those who were absolutely
superior to the necessity for their intervention.


Jessie had often thought it a pity that
a great many excellent people, from the
purest motives, should daily submit in a
timorous and unreasoning manner to the
dictates of a code of petty conventions ; the
only justification for whose existence lay in
the demoralization of a set of fashionable
folk, whose social existence fortunately
terminated in the earlier years of the
century. That this emancipation from
conventional thraldom, presupposing, as it
must do, the attainment of a certain standard
of mental cultivation, and of intelligent
self-control, could scarcely be permitted to
very young or to very inexperienced people,
Jessie was well aware; but then amongst
very inexperienced people, with the chapter

in her life which she had just turned over,
Aurea Chapel could scarcely be classed.

Startled by the unexpected suggestiveness
of Aurea's remarks, Jessie was silent ; whereupon
Miss Chapel continued, holding out her
teacup :

Give me some more sugar, if you please ;
and then tell me when Sir Crowsby Wayland
implied that he was too poor to ask
anything but an heiress to marry him, do
you suppose he was speaking the truth ?'
Did he tell you that this afternoon ?'
Something Hke it; in the "special style,"
you know.'

Poverty is comparative. I know a
couple in Cutthorp)e who married upon a
chair and a table, and borrowed those : but
from his own peculiar point of view I've no
doubt it's true enough. That he should
take all and should give nothing, would,
I should think, be precisely his notion of
marriage.'

Then he mustn't take me, as he has
already told me, for I confidently anticipate
that I shall have nothing. Papa's artistic
tastes are very ruinous to my future prospects,
so my aunt and uncle have told me.
I don't suppose nov, that my fortune could
even mend the roof of the old house at
Dripping Ferry, let alone paying off the
mortgages which seem to oppress its owner.'

Are those the functions supposed to be
specially reserved for Sir Crowsby's wife?'

Well, I should say so, judging from the
conversation which we had this afternoon.'

May one inquire the result of this
remarkable conversation?'

Oh, certainly  I quarrelled with him
and ran away indoors.'

Because he told you that he was not rich
enough to be able to afford to marry you?'

Why no, of course not. And yet to ])e
sure  why, Jessie, it did look just like
that!'

For a moment she buried her face in the
familiar sofa-cushions which had received
her at her first entry into the house, coming
up again, after a few moments' seclusion,
nth cheeks softly red.

Why, he will be sure to think that I had
been just as nice to him as possible up to
that moment; and then I went away and
left him, and told him  Avell, yes, I certainly
did tell him something very like it  that
I'd never speak to him again.'

Well, I dare say he'll get over it.'

 I hope he will not, I am sure. I don't
want him to get over it. Men always forget,
and women always remember  and I'd
like it to be the other way with me.'

With her brother George in her mind,
Jessie gave an involuntary sigh, thinking
that Aurea's wish in his case appeared likely
enough to come true; a conviction which
would have deepened into certainty could
she have known of the touching interview

VOL. III. 41

which George was building upon with unwavering
faith, but which Aurea already
seemed to have found it easy not exactly
to remember all about.

 I'm going away on Thursday, you see,'
Aurea continued, * and I mean to forget all
about him then  Sir Crowsby Weyland, I
mean ; but I should not like him to think
it was because he was poor. I believe I'm
poor myself; at least I'll have to be so.'

 Well, I suppose he will be here tomorrow,
and you can tell him what you
choose.'

Oh no ; he will not, Mrs. Smith. I am
not going to have anything more to say
to him.'

Well, then, you will be able to go with
me into Cutthorpe to say good-bye to Adam
Daily. You remember you have not been
to see him once, and he has so often
asked after you of late.'

'No, really, Mrs. Smith; please don't ask

me. I always hate to do a thing because
I'm told it ought to be done. If so, I
always let it alone at once. People who do
things because they ought to be done, are
invariably such very dull company. ]moreover,
I hate sick people's rooms, and workhouses,
and infirmaries, and all those places
of 'modern fashionable resort," as Sir
Crowsby Weyland calls them; they're worse
than the museums and the churches abroad,
in that they're never done. Besides, I have
got my packing to do. Xow, Jessie, don't
be severe, there's a good creature ! I may call
you Jessie, mayn't I, because you're not so
very much older than I am  only about
seven years, although you are so very much
wiser and all the rest of it ? Well, then,
let me sit on the floor and put my head in
your lap. And now, Jessie, listen to me, if
you please. I'm not at all a girl to be
depended upon, but I haven't forgotten that
boy. I shall make papa do something for

412

him by the time he gets well. I shall send
the money to you, and you'll give it him,
won't you ; or spend it for him, or do what is
right with it any way? How much do
you think it ought to be ? Do you think
twenty-five pounds would start him in life
as soon as he gets about again ? Or should
you say it ought to be fifty ? I'll get papa
to make it fifty if I can possibly manage it,
but I cannot promise it shall be fifty, because
we're not such a very affectionate
couple  papa and I, I mean. He always
nods and says " Good-morning, daughter "
in Italian, be it understood, if he happens
to see me  and I respond in suitable style
in the same lanoj-uaofe, and there our intercourse
begins and ends.'

I really hope, Aurea,' said Jessie,
stroking the bright hair whilst she spoke,
in order that the caressing touch mioht
soften the effect of her words, * that you
will not send that money to me. I could

not possibly consent to convey it to Adam
Daily. With the sensitiveness of feeling
which he has all along displayed in the
matter, and which any gentleman might
have envied, it really would be nothing
short of an insult to refuse, as you have
done, ever to go and see him, and then to
offer to pay him in that unblushing way for
risking his limbs and his life in the protection
of yours. You would either inflict
such an injury upon his feelings as would
make him refuse to take the money at all,
or if he did not absolutely refuse, you
would have inflicted a similar injury upon his
spirit of independence and his self-respect.'

sand what about my spirit of independence
and my self-respect?' cried Aurea,
starting to her feet and facing Mrs. Smith.

I don't think much of either one or the
other if they can only be preserved by
means of your father's cheques,' said Jessie
Smith coldly.

Aurea suddenly turned and looked out of
the window to hide the angry tears which this
rebuke brought into her eyes ; then, with
one of the swift changes of mood which
went far to make up the charm of this
impulsive nature, she said plaintively :

You do not think much of my spirit of
self-dependence or of my self-resjDcct. Well,
to say the truth, neither do I. I think my
golden hair is worth more than one or the
other to me, and that is all my own. Stroke
it again ; isn't it beautiful, Jessie ? Look
how it ripples and waves all of its own
accord ; see how fine it is, and what a lot
there is of it. Do you think the '' dear
dead women" had "such hair too"? I
don't ! I don't ! Admire it  do now, Jessie
and I'll forgive you on the spot for that
slap at my self-esteem.'

It is very lovely, Aurea, and I do
admire it very much,' said Jessie, taking
the bright head in her hands and kissing

the sunny masses of hair ;  and I shall
miss its owner exceedingly about the house
and garden.' *And so,' she thought, but did
not say, ' will my poor forgotten brother.'
So they ended good friends, as they had
begun.

SOMEWHAT CONTRADICTORY.

IFE looked very thin and pale to
Aurea Chapel as she slowly did
her packing next day ; only the
very rind of an existence from which all
the flavour and substance had departed
seemed to be left her. Aurea was one of
those women who really live only in the
enjoyment of masculine society : out of it
their vitality is in abeyance ; in it they are
gay, sparkling, bewitching. In the company
of admirers, possible or impossible,
they compel recognition by a subtle undefinable

influence, by an unexpressed
appeal, beneath which is probably hidden
no conscious flirtation, no calculated scheming.
Nature has ranked them among the
brightest creatures that she meant to please,
has given them charming instincts, educated
by inheritance. At their best themselves
in society, they enliven and refine
social intercourse by the contagion of agreeable
sentiments.

Why,' the girl asked herself sadly, as
she slowly collected her things, 'had she
been so foolish as to quarrel with the only
being who had made her stay at Slums by
endurable ? And now it was not likely
that she would ever see him ao-ain. She
could not linger on at the Vicarage, since
her presence seemed to be the immediate
cause of the prolonged and inconvenient
absence of its owner. Sir Crowsby Wayland
was not the sort of man who would be
likely to give himself the trouble of coming

to see her off at the station, and by her ill-timed
petulance she had deprived herself
of any other opportunity for making up her
difference with him. Here was a man over
whom she exercised but a doubtful power.
All the pains which George Apers took
about her, she was disposed to take about
Sir Crowsby Weyland. Difficult to be
won, she wanted to win ; meantime, the
idea of poor George Apers's patient fidelity
was becoming distinctly displeasing to her.
She began rather to despise him for it.
Incapable of appreciating the refinement of
a sentiment which proved its strength by
the renunciation of present realization, out
of tender respect for its object, she had been
at first incredulous of George's expressed
determination not to profit by the chance
which made her an inmate of their house.
Then, as she observed the persistency with
which he adhered to his resolution, she
grew contemptuous and angry. She even

began to suspect this motives. And whilst
he was consoling himself with the cherished
memory of that parting scene in the Devonshire
garden, and was flattering himself with
the promise that he would ' stay away as
long as it was the only thing he could do
for her,' she, on her part, had found no
difficulty in forgetting at once the tender
words themselves and the affection which
she had undoubtedly felt for the speaker so
long as he was the only man upon whose
aid she could rely in a terrible emergency.
But Sir Crowsby Weyland had said so
many better and pleasant thugs since
then, that George's words had been almost
driven out of her memory. This misconception
of George's motives was indeed fast
converting her former friendship for hkn
into repulsion.

Aurea was absolutely undisturbed over
her packing, since Jessie was defamed longer
than usual at the infirmary. Grandmother

Daily was missing at Adam's bedside.
Troubled b} lier strange non-appearance,
Adam was unable to give Ms mind to
anything, and Jessie undertook to go in
search of the old woman. She found her
groaning on her stiff, rheumatic knees over
the painful labour of scrubbing the day-room
boards, a task ordinarily performed
by an able-bodied inmate. In pursuance of
his wife's threat, the master had, it appeared,
brought Mrs. Daily up before the
Board upon the vague charge of ' making
herself too much at home in the House,'
and the Board had accordingly prescribed
the hard discipline of the scrubbing-brush.

A good deal of scrubbing as a remedy
for a very little self-assertion might appear
severe ; but in excuse for the master, it
must be remembered that, as the governor
of so large a workhouse, leisure for the
analysis of personal motive could not fairly
be expected from him. He would have

been exceedingly indignant if any connection
were to have been assumed between his
action in this matter and the loss of a
responsible position by his wife's brother
at the factory, in consequence of the misgovernment
which Adam Daily's accident
had brought to lioht.

Delayed by the necessity of consoling the
old woman, who was siohino for rest
beneath the moulds by the side of her
departed husband, whilst her grandson
was pining above for a return to that life
of new exertion which was to be devoted
to his grandmother's deliverance from the
chances of such cruel drudgery, Jessie did
not get back to the Yicarage till late in the
afternoon. In the drawings-room, awaiting
her return, she found Sir Crowsby Wayland
and an imposing-looking widow lady
in black silks and satins, which overflowed
George Apers's shabby chair. Sir Crowsby
introduced her as his sister. Either Mrs.

Smith's delay in appearing, or a dislike to
being there at all, had unfavourably influenced
the manners of the lady in question.
She was eager to explain, with
unpleasing prolixity, that she had only
come down to the Ferry that very day ;
that she was 'tired to death with her
journey;' that she had left her youngest
boy in an attack of the croup; that, with
so many demands upon her time, she found
it ' not merely difficult, but absolutely impossible
to pay half the calls that were on
her list ; ' and she distinctly left it to be
inferred that she only paid this one at the
express suggestion of her brother. During
these unnecessary and unpleasing confidences,
Sir Crowsby, restlessly fidgeting
upon the opposite sofa, turned his eyes
now with annoyance upon his sister, now
\'ith expectation upon the door. Alternating
signs of passive boredom with
evidences of active disgust at his sister's bad

taste, he dropped this company manner, and
without it became at once a plain squire of
the Fen-lands.

The stately widow accepted the tea which
was offered her much as Jessie fancied she
must have accepted all other necessaries and
conveniences of life at the hands of somebody
else. It was clear that not for a
moment did she lose the sense of what was
due to herself and what to the farmer's
daughter-in-law by whom she was entertained;
yet that consciousness was curiously
mastered by an unmistakable subservience
to her brother's will, for her pointed inquiry
for Miss Chapel was certainly made in
obedience to Sir Crowsby's unspoken
prompting. Up to this point Jessie had
not thought it her duty to interfere for the
introduction of Aurea. She did not feel
called upon to alia' Sir Crowsby's evident
anxiety. The young lady had in all probability
.tnessed his arrival from the

endows of the room above, and if she
stayed upstairs, it was presumably because
she preferred to do so ; but she had now no
civil pretence for refusing to inform the fair
recluse of the visitors' arrival.

Aurea was not discovered, as Jessie more
than half expected, on tiptoe to meet a
sentimental crisis; on the contrary, she was
curled up in a kitten-like attitude on a
billowy mass of finery which strewed the
floor. Her bright head rested against a
half-packed trunk, protected by a falling
drapery of soft shawls, and she was
genuinely and innocently fast asleep. The
afternoon had been dull, and Aurea always
did go to sleep) when life was dull. It was,
at least, a harmless method of escape from
the tedium of solitary reflection. Truly, a
little insensibility serves its possessor better
than many a system of religion or philosophy,
however wisely formulated.

 Sir Crowsby Weyland, encore!' she exclaimed,

pretending to yawn, but in reality
colouring with pleasure, whilst she made a
dive at her trunk to pull out a dress she
had already packed; 'and he has actually
induced his sister to call, has he ? Why, he
must have got her down from town on
purpose; and isn't she wishing she could
afford to take her own way in spite of him !
One's own way always is the best way in
the world. If only one could always know
what one's own way is. I'm sure if I knew
what would be best in the end for me to do,
as well as I know what is best for me to
wear I'd always do it ! About going down
now? There's more in it than descending
the stairs, you know. Jessie, what would
you advise me to do f

Oh, if I gave advice, it would be my
way; presumably, therefore, not the best way
for you. Upon your own showing you must
decide for yourself.'

Well, you could go and tell them I was
VOL. III. 42

asleep, and you didn't like to wake me. I
was, and no doubt you didn't like to, though
you didn't show it, so it would be true
enough for general purposes. After all,
what I did declare was that I'd not be in
the drawing-room if he called to-day, and
I wasn't; and that I'd not enter the garden
again, and I won't. Tie this ribbon for me,
please, Jessie; I can think so much better
whilst I'm dressing'. Xow what are you
hurrying for ? Let them wait. It'll do
them good. Perhaps after all I may as well
go down, as he has got his sister hereon
purpose.'

How do you know he has done any
such thing? She told me that she had
been coming every day for the last fortnight,
but that her second boy had fallen
down the stairs.'

And her third boy would have fallen up
them, only her brother made her see that
she'd got to come. I know all about her

and their relations to one another. He
hasn't talked every day to me for the last
three weeks without my discovering all
that. She is a woman in whom the
maternal instinct shared with pussy-cats
does duty for a heart, and in whom self-interest
takes the place of conscience.
That sentiment isn't mine.'

So I should judge,' said Jessie drily.

And so you would hope, apparently.
Well, you're all right about it; it's a quotation.
"Whose?" don't ask. Mr. Stuck-ley's
; but it fits Sir Crowsby Weyland's
sister like a glove. Go downstairs now,
and see if it doesn't.'

Accepting the suggestion in a different
spirit as a useful hint, Jessie descended, and
endeavoured to convert the silence in which
the lady seemed disposed to await Aurea's
entrance, into a conversation upon the subject
of the five boys. She met with an immediate
response, Sir Crowsby's sister being

422
 UIIVfiSiTY OF 



one of those perfectly selfish talkers whose
conversation leaves it a matter for regret
that a sponge or some other inanimate object
cannot be made the recipient of their
remarks. All that her boys had had, and
when they had it; what they wore, and how
they looked in it ; what they said, and when
they said it; how great was their devotion
to herself, and how complete their indifference
to anybody else  during all this, her
brother took no pains to conceal his disgust
and his impatience for Aurea's entrance.
But Aurea meant to be waited for, and
waited for she was.

Jessie, in despair, was endeavouring to be
interested in hearing for the third time
how old the vouno-est was, when at length
Aurea descended, dressed in her very
freshest toilet, put on to supply her with
at least one indisputable point of superiority
to her company ; but with it she positively
wore her garden-hat, the same hat that Sir

Crowsby knew so well and in company with
which he had spent so many hours in the
Vicarage garden. Jessie had scarcely time
to ask herself the motive of this apparently
sudden chancre of intention on the vous;
lady's jart, when Sir Crowsby, by accepting
it as an invitation for one more stroll, fell
headlong into the trap provided for him by
this wary little spider.

 His sister would like to see the garden,'
and he requested Mrs. Smith to lead the
way thither. His sister, to whom all
places wherein she had no hope of finding
her second boy were at the moment equally
indifferent, accepted the dictation of his look
and tone ; but when Aurea should have
followed, she resolutely stood her ground.
No garden for me, Sir Crowsby ; if you
attached any importance to my words, you
would know that I told you I would never
enter it again.'

So much the better. Mrs. Smith must

already have got my sister half-way doTvn
to the pot-herbs; and as Clara's tongue has
long been in her nursery, I've no doubt it
will happily remain there. Meanwhile, I am
better pleased to stay here with you; but
why that hat ?'

He asks why I bring my hat, when the
answer is before his eyes in the present
arrangement ! Men are blind
You wanted them to go out.'
I meant them to do it. Is that very
surprising ?'

A little contradictory, perhaps.'
'When was I ever anything else?'
*Xot since I have had the pleasure of
your acquaintance, certainly.'

Then I am consistent in that, at least.
In my contradictoriness I am consistency
itself. I was told so once ; but let us drop
this chatter and come to serious conversation.
Sir Crowsby, I want you to do something
for me. It's about the money for

that boy. I came downstairs to speak to
you on purpose  for no other reason.'

Not on my account at all.'

Not in the very least : it isn't flattering ;
but then I never flatter.'

I am content to be flattered by being
recognised as an instrument for your service.
Miss Chapel.'

 That is pretty ; but attend, please.
Time is short, and those two ladies will
not look at the sea-kale for ever, though
you may have frightened your sister into
the most abject submission to your unexpressed
commands. Listen, SirCrowsby:
papa has sent me no answer, and I haven't
got the money for that dreadful boy. Jessie
has got such extraordinary notions of her
prodigy, that I believe she thinks I ought
to make it up to him myself in some way.
I do believe she would really have liked me
to go down on my knees and bless him, and
cry over him, and offer him touching vows

of grateful devotion and tender friendship
for the rest of my days. I am sure she
thinks he won't take the money ; and I
know she'd a great deal rather I didn't offer
it him  in fact, she said so; but I mean to,
and he must be made to take it. Look
here, Sir Crowsby: I shall send it to you.
You will promise me to make him take it,
won't you ? Or do you think it would le
better to give it to his father ?'

 What ! to James Daily ! Indeed, Miss
Chapel, with the utmost devotion to the
least of all your wishes, I should scarcely,
even at your express command, venture to
offer it to him. Why, I should have the
money flung back in my face ! He is such
a Radical that he has never even sent mein
his bill for work done for me, because I
happened to pay for some necessaries for
his son's use ; moreover, he's dreadfully
offended with me because I declined to lend
him a valuable document relating to the

tenure of Sodden Farm. He has got a craze
on that point. I offered to read him the
heads of agreement, but he "wanted to take
it and spell it out himself; and when I
demurred, he went off in a huff as if I'd
insulted him.'

Oh yes, I know. I heard all about that
bill business,' laughed Aurea ; ' Mrs. Smith
was delighted. She said it proved him to
be " a thorough gentleman," or something
ridiculous like that. I do hate all that
nonsense about people being gentlemen,
when they are thatchers or cobblers, or
something: of that sort. As if everyone
didn't really know who was a gentleman
and who was not.'

The subject is a nice one, Miss Chapel ;
but our time is unfortunately limited. Must
you really go tomorrow?'

Certainly I must. Mrs. Smith's longing
to be out of the country. She is only
waiting for that boy to recover, and for

her brother to come home ; and therefore
also for me to be gone. I can't think how
she can stay in England, and leave her
husband to be lost all by himself in Australia
; unless, to be sure, she suspects that
he doesn't want her. I wouldn't do it.'

No ; you would be more likely to desert
him!'

Sir Crowsby ! ' flashed Aurea ; Sir
Crowsby smiled, but continued in an unmoved
tone :

She is very unwise if she is thinking
of taking my poor friend Mr. Smith outwith
her. Everyone can tell that he will
die the first day that they get out to sea.
Of late he has been going downhill at a
hand-gallop.'

I fancy it is his doing rather than hers.
He's determined not to let her go alone.
He clogs to her so. He'll hardly let herbe
out of his sight, even for an hour. He's
tiresome, quite, poor old man! He comes

every day, and he sits in that armchair and
waits for her return from the infirmary, and
then they discuss the Australian project
together. I always go away and dress for
dinner whilst it's going on, and then if they
want to be confidential and affectionate they
can.'

You don't approve of affection, then ?'
On principle, yes ; in practice, no. I
don't belong to an affectionate family.
Well, I'm really going tomorrow, and Mr.
Apers is coming home  though why he
couldn't do it before is quite mysterious ;
but you know all about that.'

If I might be permitted to speak, I
should say that his absence might possibly
be dictated by delicacy of feeling. I should
say that he was a very scrupulous man,
and under the circumstances of your being
almost an involuntary guest in his house,
perhaps he felt himself debarred from taking
advantage of the pleasant chance. He has

always struck me as a singularly sensitive
man.'

I don't see why lie couldn't have come
back if he had liked.'

Possibly not : young ladies are not the
best judges in these matters.'

Young ladies must be the best judges
in their own affairs.'

Pardon me : if I were speaking to anyone
but a young lady I should be prepared
to question that statement.'

Well, then, who am I to submit my
judgment to ?'

You can scarcely do better under present
circumstances than be guided by your
friend's sister.'

*What, by Mrs. Smith?'

 Assuredly. She's a clever and capable
woman, given to independent judgment,
and not likely to be unduly influenced by
her partiality for her brother. She leads
rather than follows, so I've been told.'

Oil yes ; Jessie is all very well. She
was very good to me, I know, when I first
came here. She  well  I hate to talk
about it, but you know it all, so it can't
be helped. She kept away all those people
who behaved so badly to me down in Devonshire.
She answered lots of disagreeable
letters. Yes, I don't deny she was very
kind about all that ; but after all, you know,
I don't understand her. I used to like her
brother George so much the best of the two.
I don't now. But then she cares so much
about such absurd things, and ooes in for
such extraordinary friendships  these Dailyss
and lots of other queer creatures. She cannot
really care for them, you know: it stands
to reason it must be put on ; and then that
is not nice.'

Tastes differ, Miss Chapel. Xow my
sister cares about nothing but her ovn \q
boys ; and to my mind that is not nice.
And she declares that I care about nothing

but myself; and she rightly feels that that
is not nice.'

jSTo, that is not nice ; that is what papa
does answered Aurea.

Well, what is nice then ?' he asked.

To care about nice people.'

And who are the nice people ?'

*Why, the people we care about, of
course.'

And that is ourselves. See what we
have reduced it to,' answered Sir Crowsby,
laughing. ' Miss Aurea Chapel and Sir
Crosby Weyland only care about themselves
and each other  is that it ? And vet
they've got to say " Good-bye " tomorrow.
Is it really so, Aurea ?

No ; they've got to say " Good-bye " at
once. Here is your sister coming back ;
go out to meet her, please, at the gate, and
take her straight home. I'm not in the
mood to display the slightest interest in
your five nephews.'

Confound them !' said their affectionate
uncle, with a very white look about his lips.

Sir Crowsby !'

Well, Miss Chapel, whilst I am obliged
to play the thankless part of the affectionate
brother and uncle, I am forced to deny
myself the delights of more voluntary
service. I've told you so, and you know
it : what more can I say ?'

But Aurea Chapel had fled at the
approach of the two ladies, and it is doubtful
if she even heard the question ; at any
rate, she had vouchsafed him no sentimental
adieu.

LOVE OE ]MONEY.

ever aoain to address his daughter.

 EITHER in this native lanofuaoe
nor in the softer tongue of the
South was the Signor Capella

The

silence which surrounded him might never
again be broken ; for even whilst she busied
herself with preparations for rejoining him,
he lav, uttering; no more artistic sentiments,
breathing no more devotion to the land of
his adoption or to any other, in the
mortuary chapel of the Church of St. Suffice
in Rome. A stranger to the end in point

of fact, an alien in natural thought and
feeling from the people whose * pleasant
places ' he had dwelt in, and whose ' lines '
he had coveted. Alone in his apartment
in Eome, at the dullest season of the year,
before the earliest British visitor had begun
to consult the house-agent, when even the
resident Italians had for the most part
migrated to cooler villas on the summer
hills, when H. B. M.'s Consul had gone fora
trip to Corsica, when the English Chaplain
was preaching his winter sermons to the
autumn visitors in the Tyrol, and the
favourite doctors had departed with the
yearly guests, Aurea's father lay dying.

The Signor Capella had not the slightest
wish that ' out of his ashes ' should ' be
made the violet of his native land ;' on
the contrary, he had nourished a lifelong
grudge against some unknown Power for
the blunder of his British birth. He had
carefully acquired the colloquial use of a

VOL. III.

foreign tongue, had made no friends but
such as were of foreign origin, had eschewed
Protestantism and all the ways of the
British tourist, had led the life of an artist
and a Roman, had been attentively responsive
on all questions, social and political, to
local influence ; and yet, in very truth, this
strange man died consoled by the idea that
in that other world which he did not
believe in, he should not wake up an
Italian. Yet, to be buried at once, and to
be buried where he died, beneath the
blazing autumnal sun of Italy, before his
daughter or any of his kindred could, in
some moment of softened feeling, claim his
bones for English earth  this was the
dearest wish he imparted to the Italian
doctor and to the British Vice Consul who
stood beside his bed.

The Vice Consul was an insignificant
picture-cleaner, who had apartments in an
unknown street, and whose hands, hastily

snatched from the give-pot and shining
with varnish, disfigured the dying depositions
of the once fastidious artist. To their
custody, however, for lack of a better, was
the Signor Capella compelled to entrust
all his documents, papers, and treasures,
pending the return of the superior representative
; with instructions to transmit a
suitable intimation of his death and burial
to his sole surviving daughter, Aurea
Chapel, at the address which had last been
sent him by her, namely Slumsby Yicarage
in the English Fenlands. Money for the
elaborate sculpture which his fancy had
sketched for his own tombstone was also
handed to the picture-cleaner by the
expiring man before he died (of the spleen,
so the Italian doctor informed the Yice-
Consul : a disease which he averred
killed off all Englishmen above the aoe of
fifty years, and was the cause, he added,
that America was fast growing into the

432

England of the future, because in America
there Tas no spleen, whilst in [the British
Isles depopulation was so rapidly progressing,
owing to that cause, that there
were seven women to one man, and all the
well-to-do people were forced to travel to
other countries in hopes of prolonging their
painful existence). The picture - cleaner
carefully sealed up the deceased's effects in
the presence of the doctor and of two Italian
priests ; then he wrote, but did not telegraph,
to Miss Aurea Chapel, as desired,
assigning time and place of the sad event,
and enclosing a copy of the doctor's certificate,
duly attested by himself.

It was well the Signor Capella could not
read that document, for it would have
angered him mightily. In reality, he died
of Roman fever, aggravated no doubt by
his refusal to allow himself the whole year
round any change of climate. Wishing to
be more Italian than the Italians, he had

declined to go away to any cooler summer
resort. It had been one of his favourite
axioms that ' Roman fever so called, was
the parasite of the British tourist, belonged
to him, and was kept up by him solely 
that it never touched any naturalized
Englishman who conformed to the usages
of the country; and to save his life he
would not have admitted that he furnished
an exception to his own rule. The Signor
Capella showed no more concern about his
worldly than about his spiritual affairs.
He had done \\T.th a mismanaged world,
and he really did not much care how his
departure might affect the daughter whom
he left behind him. How vast a change it
would make in her circumstances, he was
well aware; but he left all, as he left her,
with an indifference which was unfeigned,
and which was in reality the outcome of
the deepest personal disappointment. Mr.
Chapel was sick with so persistent a distaste

for his life here on this planet, that for
years he had lacked the energy, not the
will, to resign it ; and this lack of enterprise
had been at the root of his refusal to
take even the short journey to Tivoli. This
failure of hope possibly accounted for his
falling: a victim at last to the malaria which
his acclimatized constitution had withstood
for so long.

Well, the priests did their duty. The
stranger, it was hoped, slept in peace in the
land of his adoption. The important letter
went to England, and the picture-cleaner
returned to his glue-pots ; the lattices were
closed in the dead man's apartments, the
doors were fastened, and the seals were set, so
that no curiosity might know in Rome, until
the genuine Consul returned from his wanderings,
whether the Signor Capella had left
his daughter an English fortune, or a few
worthless pictures and the heritage of a
rejected name. Least of all did she know it

herself in Slumsby, where, with all her preparations
round her, she sat crying upstairs
in the room which was to be hers no
longer.

George Apers would not permit himself
to return home on the evening of the day
on which his fair guest was to take her
departure, but by a very early train on the
following morning  the same, indeed, as
that which Aurea had taken when she ran
away from Glen Combe  he purposed to
arrive at Slumsby. Although he knew that
she would have left the day before, and
would by that time be in Paris, it was
impossible to him to picture his own home
without the adornment of her presence.
For so many weeks his fancy had delighted
to follow her about the sunny old house and
garden, and to fill each spot familiar to him
with the atmosphere of youth and love
which were associated in his thoughts with
her. Still he could not rid himself of the

feeling that he should detect lingering in each
familiar object the charm of her presence;
that her influence would insensibly penetrate
the spot which had been her dwelling
for weeks; that at least the echo of her
musical laughter and of her mirthful ways
would remain for him, and the results of
her presence in his sister's praise. With
the narrowness of special interpretation, he
would have rejected the term which alone
would have described his feeling, namely,
that his dwelling had been consecrated by
having sheltered Aurea, as if the centring
of loving thoughts and deeds in any spot
on earth were not its highest consecration.
By his generous shielding of her name from
all the mischievous arrows which slanderous
gossip aimed that way, he had atoned for
the weakness which had met her earlier
appeal. By so much less as he had felt
himself a man before, did he feel himself the
more one now. Duty had demanded the

atonement from him, and love had rendered
it not only easy but delightful, in spite of
his sensitive nature and of his nervous
temperament. He had fallen once from
fear of consequences, and the results had
been more disastrous than he had anticipated.
But he had been true since, true to
himself and true to her ; and his reward lay
in knowing this, and in believing that she
realized it also.

Until he got into the town of Cutthorpe
no speed seemed fast enough for George
Apers; but once there, in passing through
the well-known streets, it began to come
home to him with dull, retarding power that
the nearer he got to Slumsby Yicarage the
farther he got from Aurea Chapel ; that she
was in reality speeding away from him
somewhere on the other side of Paris,
hastening southwards to Dijon straight as
the crow flies, and that farther and farther
her course was diverging from his. Under

the influence of this variation of idea, his
feet grew heavier and his pace slackened,
until, much as he had longed, he now began
to dread re-entering the rooms where she
had been, but was not now. At this stage
of feeling he reached the Union gates, and
in order to defer the painful realization, he
was minded to turn in and to ask after
Adam Daily. But when he reached the
infirmary ward, he gave that name quite
hesitatingly to the delicate-looking youth,
who, surrounded by books and flowers, and
propped up in bed by a chair and a pillow,
kept his finger in his book whilst he greeted
the visitor with a subdued smile.

Adam was at that period of life in which
a complete change of conditions, whether
produced by accident, illness, or grief, may
in a very short space of time convert the
boy or girl into the thoughtful man or
woman. The physical change was the first
to strike George Apers. He had seen Adam

Daily last as a stout, healthy country lad;
above the average possibly in intelligence,
but in a vague, undirected form; groping
his way out of chaos, uncertain of everything
; confounding sympathetic emotion
with physical sensation; tongue-tied and
shamefaced, finding expression less by
articulate language than by inarticulate
gesture, according to the childish habit of
men and minds and nations. Now it was
evident not only that the long thin limbs
could scarcely stretch themselves upon the
workhouse bed, which had been amply long
enough for them at first, but that the outline
of the face had become entirely changed,
gaining in refined and stamped expression
what it had lost in flesh and sunburn ;
whilst the thoughtful eyes  eyes which
were no looser wondering; like those of a
person half awaked from sleep  were
keenly and critically alive and awake.
Certain forms of physical suffering leave

the mind freer to work than any kind of
merely manual labour, and Adam's body,
bound at first to active suffering, cramped
afterwards in the passive endurance of slow
recovery, grew insensibly into that of a
man ; whilst this mind, liberated from its
bondage to the burden of daily toil, developed
equally quickly, so that even Jessie
had been astonished at the rapidity with
Which he mastered the instruction which
her interest provided for him.

How are you getting on, and what are
you doing, my lad?' said George, taking
a seat ujon the table, since there was no
other chair in the ward than that which
was propping uj) Adam in bed.

Adam explained that he was getting on
first-rate, but that he had not yet got to
putting his feet to the ground ; that when
he did he should not know who he was, for
granny declared he'd grown quite \ inches,
and shouldn't be able to wear any of his

clothes. 'In fact,' he added with a quiet
smile, ' Bob has been and fetched them
away, and has pretty nearly worn them out,
having borrowed them until such time as
I should require them again

What was he doing ?'

Why, arithmetic, and history, and
geography, and poetry, all at once. First
a bit of one, and then of another \ but they
all bind together as well as straws in a rick
of father's thatching. The writing is the
worst as yet, but you see that is owing to
my ribs being broken. I seem to be like a
chap that splutters; he feels the syllables,
but he cannot frame them ; and I feel the
letters, but I cannot shape them well. My
fist used to be strong enough on the spade,
but it seems too weak for a grip of the pen.'

You're not the first that has made that
experience,' said George ; * but your conception
of good writing will help you, though
you mayn't be able to get your execution

up to the mark as yet. It will come some
day when you are stronger.'

Adam listened very attentively.

'Will thinking of anything bring you
nearer to it, sir?' he asked in reply.

I imagine so. Do you know what I
mean when I say that every noble effort
requires that we should keep the image of
lofty attainment before our eyes?'

That means that if ever we want to do
some big thing ourselves, we must keep on
fancying we see it being done by some one
better than we are now.'

Yes, that will do admirably. I wonder
where you learnt that?'

Where I learnt everything else, sir 
from Mrs. Apers Smith ; but her words
would put it better. She first told me the
history of Diggory Daily, and I shall never
forget it. I want to know, sir, can we get
nearer to people by thinking about them?'

George paused to consider ; his answer

this time was much less ready. Could he,
for instance, get nearer to Aurea Chapel by
thinking about her ? Had he got nearer
to her? What strange suggestion had put
it into the lad's power to frame his
thoughts ?

How do you mean  nearer to people?
Nearer to them in sympathy  yes. Nearer
to them in body  no.'

Adam was silent, as though essaying the
application of this answer ; then, changing
the current of the conversation, George
Apers added :

I half expected to have found my sister
here to-day. She comes to see you very
often, does she not T

Yes, sir; almost every day. She was
here on Wednesday, but she has not been
this afternoon. She said Miss Chapel
was going off on Thursday, and that Mr.
Smith was far from well ; so I suppose that
she must have been prevented. When you

came in I thought it must be her; she has
never missed two days before.'

Has anyone else been?' asked George,
anxious to hear again the name which
Adam had just mentioned.

Yes, sir; mother, lots of times ; and
father has looked in twice on a Sunday ; and
Bob and Xoah; and granny's been here
nursing me until last Tuesday, and then
the master set her to scrub the boards,
and she felt it so in all her limbs that she's
been forced to take to her bed and have the
doctor, and she's there now. It's a dreadful
trouble to me. It's that that irks me
lying here. Father's got his family to keep,
and so he can't afford to keep her; but I've
made a vow for myself since I've been lying
here, and Bob and Noah are witnesses,
that I'll never have a sweetheart of my own
until I've taken my grandmother out o' the
House.'

You told me something of that sort

before, Adam, before you came in here, and
I felt then you were rash to make such a
resolution at your age ; and though you
look much older now, owing to illness and
all that you've e'one through, Abet still I
think you are too inexperienced to be
justified in making a vow about such a
matter as that. You do not know how hard
it is for a man, when he is in love with anyone,
to give up the sight of her face or the
joy of being near her and of listening to
her voice, to leave her perhaps for some
other man to take, when she doesn't understand
what he is giving her up for, and
when she may be angry perhaps with his
conduct.'

I know in a kind of a way  I think I
know Adam said thoughtfully. ' Granny's
been telling me that " young love should
make me prize my life." She thinks, because
she is old and I am young, that I

cannot understand. But there are some
VOL. III. 44

things von can know beforehand as well as
after. I'm turned of sixteen; I'm in my
seventeen. AVhen I used to say it before, I
meant it, but I did not understand. Xow I
know what I am savings, and that is why I
vowed. Directly you know what you are
saying, you have a right to make a vow
of it if you choose.'

You are weak still. You must wait
till your strength comes back to ratify any
vows you may make in sickness. Well,
who else has been to see you?'

Sir Crowsby Weyland came at first, but
he has not been of late  no doubt he heard
I was getting well; and that is all.'

Has the youno- lady not been ?'

J CD /

Somehow George could not say the
name, but Adam understood.

Xo, sir; and I should not have expected
such a thing. Nobody that saw me as she
saw me in the street would be likely to
want to see me twice. I was all a mass of

dirt and wounds. Why, granny herself
said she never saw such an object.'

George suspected Adam of the sensitiveness
which denies the frustration of expectation
for the sake of another. Lest she
should be accused of having neglected him,
was he not excusing Aurea? All this was
said, too, with that strange manner which
young people in the transition stage display ;
now it was a boy trying to talk like a man,
now a man affecting the speech and manner
of a boy.

Well, good-bye, Adam ; I must be
going home now. I will come and help
you with your learning very shortly.'

Entering his own Vicarage by the garden-door,
George passed into the drawing-room
in search of his sister. She was not there,
but his own easy-chair stood in the familiar
corner by the fire-place. He sank into it
wearily, and let his eyes wander over the
room, seeking for traces of her who had so

442

lately dwelt there. He saw nothing ; but
presently his fingers, falling listlessly over
the arm of the chair, lighted upon an unaccustomed
thing. It was Aurea Chapel's
feathered fan, which had lain hidden just
where Sir Crowsby Weyland had dropped
it when he and Aurea had sat talking face
to face, she upon the sofa, he in George's
chair, playing with thoughts and feelings.
George smoothed its feathers tenderly, as
though it were some living: things and with
it in his hand felt a sense of dainty companionship
; whilst memory and imagination
together conjured up its owner's face and
voice and gesture. That little bundle of
sticks and feathers unwittingly dropped by
his chair, by Aurea as he surmised, delicately
intermingled for him an actual past
with the promise of a deeply desired future.
She was gone  it had been best that she
should go; but surely it was just possible
that she had fluno- him that trivial sion at

parting, or, if her will had not consented to
any such puerile expression, chance might
in this instance have interfered to play the
hopeful augur. To his fond imagination
the thing sweetly breathed of her, being
scented. He kissed it, feeling with his
scrupulous clerical conscience rather Wicked
whilst he did so, but enjoying the more the
stainless sin.

Such delights to be genuine must be
brief, and this was truly evanescent enough,
for before he could lay the scented treasure
down it was snatched from his grasp.
Aurea herself, coming in behind him unheard
by the opened door, had crushed it in
her fingers, and flinging it upon the floor,
had put her foot upon it. But there was no
laughter in the tones with which she
said :

How can you touch that painted thing,
George, all smelling of the cigarettes Sir
Crowsby Weyland uses ?'

The revulsion of feeling was too strong
for him; he began to laugh in a foolish way:
that speech about the fan was just like her,
too  she was always unkind to her lovers
when they were sentimental. That she
should appear thus, was the realization of a
waking dream; but scanning her features
eagerly, he saw a very real change. There
was no smile, no welcome greeting for him, no
softening of expressive features ; but instead,
a cold, hard look, such as he had only seen
once, when she stood before him in the
gardens of Glen Combe on the night they
parted. The face was that of a woman who
was very miserable, and whom misery had
made hard; of a woman who, having taken
some stern resolution, meant to stick to it;
of a woman who was suffering in the grasp of
some bitter necessity of fate, the unfolding
pressure of which was crushing happiness
out of her. This rapid estimate of Aurea's
mood left George no disposition to answer

her. She clearly meant to take the initiative
in the conversation. She shut the door and
stood facing; him now, one hand trembling;
on the mantelpiece, her foot still guarding
the feathered fan.

George, listen to me,' she said. ' You
have stayed away on purpose to avoid me,
and I am deeply humiliated that you should
find me here.'

He made a gesture of pathetic entreaty,
of humble deprecation, but she cut it short.

Xo, do not answer, please. You do
not in the least know vhat I am going to
say, nor what has happened to me. It is
all as strange to me as it will be to you 
as strange, only not half as sad. Listen !
Poor dear papa is dead : dead just when I
was going out to join him, and when I
have no other home on earth. I only heard
it just as I was setting ois : only yesterday
evening. Jessie wished to telegraph to
you, but I would not allow it.'

Such announcements strike dumbness
into sympathetic souls : only the poorer-hearted
find expression for their pity ready-made.


It is awfully sad. I'm very sorry,
Aurea,' the young man stammered.

Oh yes, I dare say !' she exclaimed
bitterly ; ' but then it isn't your sorrow,
it's mine, and nothing that you or anybody
else can say can make it any better:
so be silent, please, and listen  there
is more that I must say. I know I'm
just a pauper  a pauper now, and nothing-else
; and I'd rather have gone to the
Workhouse with Grandmother Daily and
her horrid grandson than have stayed herein
your house, a beggar on your hands,
until you came, only your sister wouldn't
let me. She forced me to stay. She
wouldn't let me go. I haven't got any
money left to speak of. I had bought my
ticket to Rome, and that took it nearly all.

I have never travelled anything but first
class in my life ; but I'd have saved that
money if I could have known of this. I
can't go back to my aunt and uncle in
Devonshire, because after I wouldn't marry
Leopold they both told me they would
never have anything more to do with me ;
and even if they would change then minds,
I have not changed mine  now, less than
ever.'

'' I am very shocked at all this, Aurea 1
How was it that I did not hear it from
your uncle and aunt before I came away ?'

 Because they had not heard of it themselves.
Some stranger wrote to me yesterday.
There the letter is : you can read it,
if you choose. It is very cold and businesslike.
Poor dear papa ! Fancy his dying
like that, and being buried and all, as this
man says, just when I was going out and
meaning to make quite a pleasant sort of
life for us both together, if only he would

have me ! When he was ill he must have
wanted me more than he did before.
Oh, why didn't he just say so ? When
mamma died it was all so different. She
said I was a lovely nurse, and nobody ever
did things as well as I did. Oh dear !
I wish I'd got mamma back now ; then I
should not be muddling about the world
not knowing what to do, nor who I belong
to, nor where I've got to live, and having
everybody care for me that I don't care for,
and nobody that I do T

Words, these, that struck like a cold blast
right through the longing heart of the
listener. Was his, then, the love she
despised ; and if so, whose was the affection
she desired ?

You do not suppose,' she continued,
with an effort that was revealed by her
tears, 'that I would have stayed here,
except to tell you all this ? Your sister
wouldn't let me go straight away, and I

thought perhaps after all it might be best
to say everything out at once. I hadn't
thanked you for having me here, but now
I have done so, and I mean to go. Jessie
will lend me a few pounds, and I mean to
go into lodgings somewhere, until I hear
whether papa may not have left me just
something to live on.'

Much as he longed to bid her stay and
to offer to go away again himself, George
Apers did not dare to do so. There was
that in her look and manner which forbade
his utterance of the thought. She
went on :

The Consul will not be back for a
month ; you see what this letter says, and
until then I can't know how matters stand,
so I must be indebted to Jessie till then.'

That this aspect of the case should
prominently affect her, George could
scarcely wonder, knowing as he did the
neglect and indifference which her father

had always manifested in all his relations
with her ; and yet, even with this knowledge,
her tone and manner shocked him.
The sorrow which could teach him comprehension
of such bitterness as she displayed
had not yet been tasted by him. Under
this painful impression he was silent for
some moments. The suspense grew unbearable
to her.

Say something, do !' she cried, once
more burying her face in her handkerchief.
You see that I am very 23roud, and it
hurts me so to be beholden to you. I used
to feel that things were more even, and that
something might happen some day or other
that mio;ht have made it straight. I did
not mind so much before your having
helped me to get away ; but now I've just
got to say " thank you," and I don't see
that anything can ever make it right.'

George flushed. He was doubtful if he
did rightly understand. He feared to comprehend

the meaning which she wished her
bitter words to slow. That she had
not minded as much at first taking his help,
because she had fancied then that she might
repay his affection ; but that now" a bare
verbal gratitude was all the recompense she
felt she had to offer. Was that it ? He
could not endure to believe so; evading
the question, he therefore said quickly :

You exaofoerate the obligation, Aurea.
You have paid my sister a month's visit.
People are not in the habit of burdening
themselves with a sense of indebtedness
when they have spent a few weeks in the
house of a friend. Mv sister has been
amply repaid by the pleasure of your company
whilst I have been absent attending
upon my father.'

That is all nonsense, and you know
it perfectly well!' cried the girl passionately.


What more will you allow me to say,

then ? You know what it has been to me
to have had you under my roof.'

That is just what I do not want to
know, and what I do not choose to hear,'
she returned.

 Well, then, you certainly shall not hear
it now, for this is neither the fitting time
nor place  but for your own words I should
not have alluded to it. But at least let me
tell you that there is nothing that I would
not do to lighten your grief, if you would
permit it ; that there is no one whose sorrow
comes so near to me as yours.'

No, I am not going to let }ou have the
pleasure of sympathizing with me, because
I should know all the while that you liked
it only too well  better than I meant you
to; and then I should hate you for being the
happier for my misery. People may say
other people's troubles are sad to them if
they like, but they generally contrive to
get some good out of them  some interest

or some excitement, or some compensation
to make up to themselves for having shared
the pain. Some people like sympathizing.
It's a sensation, and they are not sure
exactly if it's pain or pleasure. In any
case, they are free to pick and choose, to
take the kernel, and to reject the bitter
shell of others' troubles ; but when it is
your own trouble, you have to take it just
as it comes. Don't stare at me, please ; I
hate being looked at when I am ugly and
miserable.'

George sank into his chair, in his turn
covering' his face with his hands and oToan-

O o

ing in distress and perplexity of spirit. He
did not dare to approach her. After an
instant she went on, more to herself than
to him:

If I gave anyone the pleasure of being
sorry for me, it would mean that I cared
for them more than for my own happiness ;
and think how much you must care for a

person to be willing to have your trouble
turned into their joy!'

I could love you like that, Aurea.' An
impatient gesture Alas the only answer.
 To turn to the narrow aspect of the
case,' he said, mastering his emotion for
her sake with a powerful effort. ' In sofar
as your father's death affects your
future prospects, it appears to me that
you are probably alarming yourself very
unnecessarily. I have often heard Mr.
Chapel spoken of as a rich man, by your
mother's family in Devonshire. You yourself
say that you and your mother never
wanted for anything. I do not quite see
why you should jump to such disagreeable
conclusions as you seem to be

doing.'

Oh, I know just what it will be I Papa
never knew about his affairs ; he used to
squander large sums on pictures, and things
that will never sell for a quarter of what

they cost him. He certainly sent mamma
money Whenever she asked for it, but she
declared that he never knew where it came
from, nor how much money he had to
spend in a year, nor what his real income
was. Papa was very generous : he never
thought about money at all ; he wasn't
fond of it ; he thought that vulgar. People
could always get all they wanted out of
him for poor artists, and all that. He
never knew what he had, and never cared
what he gave ; and mamma and I didn't
know either. Uncle and aunt said he had
had a very handsome income once, but
that he must have muddled it all away.
He hated money-making Averse than anything
; he thought it ugly, and so do I.
Oh, I know just what it will be. I shall
not be downright poor, of course. I shall
have just as much money, possibly, to live
on altogether as I've hitherto had to spend
on my clothes. I shall have to thmk a
VOL. III. 45

dozen times about a pair of gloves. I
shall have to get my things cheap, and
give up buying them in Paris. I shall
have what is called " a limited income "
upon which to wander about Europe, like
those shabby old maids I despised when
I was travelling with mamma. Oh, I
know all the ins and outs of it ; when we
were living in hotels and places in Switzerland
and on the Riviera  mamma and I, I
mean  there were always a lot of those
strao'olino' creatures up in the unknown
regions over our heads, where they had
made an arrangement to have their board
and lodging' for five francs a dav : three
meals, and wine included. AVe used to
meet them on the stairs smuo-odino- in
their candles, bought cheaper than the
hotels would supply them. You may
know them at the table d'hutes ; they
carry away their dessert when they cannot
eat it, wrapped up in their handkerchiefs ;

then at breakfast the pocket the lumps of
sugar, and empty the milk-jugs when the
people put their trays outside to be carried
down. I used to call them "the flies."
And they make little meals out of their
hoards up in their attics, to save a cup of
tea at five o'clock. AVhen the hotel omnibus
goes to the station or the English church,
they drive into the town for nothing, and
then they go to hear the band : but they
never pay a penny for a chair ; they keep
the natives from the public benches. They
try to make themselves agreeable to the
people with the private sitting-rooms, in
hopes they'll ask them in to tea, or take
them out for drives ; and if they succeed,
the first time that the landlord finds them
out in something mean they threaten him,
if he puts it in their bill, with the loss of
their " friends," who have taken sitting-rooms
on the first and second floor. And
that is what I shall become.'

452

As the picture which she drew clearly
diverted Aurea's attention from her more
immediate cause of grief, George did not
instantly stop her ; but when she had
run on till she was out of breath, he said,
not without a suspicion of professional
reproof :

You need never become anything that
is not sweet and gentle, unless you choose
it, Aurea. When one is in trouble, one is
apt to feel and speak bitterly, and therefore
one should be on one's o-uard against it.
As I told you once before, all this is not
like you.'

But the girl's tried nerves were in no
state to brook reproof, however mild. Her
irritation was thereby only turned against
himself

Oh, that is all very well for you to say.
It costs money to keep " sweet and gentle,"
and you will always have plenty of it.
You will be very rich some day. I never

thought about it before. I am not mercenary
by nature, any more than dear papa was. It
was Sir Crowsby Weyland who told me
so.'

Once more that name, which somehow on
her Hps jarred so jDiiMly " George's
ears.

Besides, you are fortunate enough to bea
man,' the girl continued, ' and a man
can make his own life ; if it gets a twist
he can straighten it out again for himself,
whilst a woman's, unless she is rich, is
so little in her own power, that without
money even her very love is useless.'


What is the use of money to a man,
without the love which alone could give it
its value?' he asked earnestly.

AYhat is the use of love,' she retorted,
without the money which alone would
make it worth the having?'

Is it possible that you mean that forme,

Aurea?' he exclaimed, trying to seize
her hand.

For you /' she cried, snatching it away,
and turning' from him with a gesture
which needed no plainer wording.

You have said enough,' he gasped. ' I
understand you now, at length ! You are
cruel!' and he turned to the door, with his
head bowed ; but as he closed it he saw
her stoop and pick up the perfumed
fan which the cigarettes that Sir Crowsby
used had made ' so horrid,' whilst her
tears fell faster than ever ujDon the feathers
of the painted thing.

George went into his study and shut himself
in, separated from her more effectually
by three feet of passage than if she had
really been in Rome. Presently he heard her
come out softly and glide up the stairs.
Then, in a few seconds, by the steps on
the gravel he knew that she had left the
house; but he did not even lift his head to

see her go. She was lost to him akeady.
Her words had carried such deep conviction
with them, that for him she had become
already a dead hope, a lost love.

THE OLD rOWLIXG-PIECE.

lHERE was no doubt about it.
Mr. Smith had had a slight
stroke. His housekeeper had
found him one day unconsciously leaning
over the side of his accustomed armchair,
whilst his pipe, broken on the floor, had set
light to the newspaper which had fallen
from his hand. She had him carried upstairs
bv two of his wasfsroners, to the bed
in the best chamber where his wife had
died, and she sent for the doctor and for
Mrs. Apers Smith, and now the good old

man was slowly coming round again, all
unaware of what had happened to him,
knowing only that he had been far from
well, and that his hold on life was weakened.
By his side sat his daughter-in-law; her
hand was in his, the rescued paper lay on
the quilt, from which he was insisting that
she should continue his arrested study of
the names and times of departures of the
steamers which were shortly to sail for
Queensland. The more his health failed
him, the greater the need that he should
hasten to make all the arrangements for
his own and Jessie's departure. He must
find his son now, if he were ever to find
him before he died. Jessie, deeply saddened
by the growing impossibility of his
ever undertaking the voyage at all, yet
humoured his earnest desire, and before the
afternoon was over he had selected the
Ferrara., which was to sail for Mackay
on the 12th of the ensuing month; nor

would he rest satisfied until Jessie had
written to the shipping agents, to make
inquiries about the price of berths. ' That
will be fully a month off,' he said ; ' by that
time I shall quite have got over this trifling
ailment; but for it, now that Miss Chapel
has left you, and that your brother is
coming back, there would have been nothing
to hinder our starting; at once.'

So he spoke, and Jessie did not think it
necessary in his invalid state to allude to
the death of A urea's father, which left that
young lady still on her hands. She saw
plainly enough that he never would be able
to undertake the journey his thoughts so
constantly dwelt upon, and her heart sank
when she realized how every helpless look
and gesture proved his increasing dependence
upon her, and made it doubly doubtful
that he would ever let her leave him.
She would have to wait and wait to take
the long journey, always hoping and

planning, never able to make a start,
until he took that other and longer journey
wherein she could not accompany him, and
from which he would never return.

But why did not her brother George
appear? She began to wonder what had
become of him. His train must have been
in at least two hours ago. She had left a
message for him at the Vicarage, begging
him to join her at the farm as soon as he
arrived, which message, together with an
intimation of Mr. Smith's condition, had
been intended to prevent George's meeting
unprepared with Aurea. Could the servant
have forgotten her instructions ?

Mr. Smith was dozing uneasily behind
the heavy green curtains of his bed, and the
shadows were creeping upon the faded walls
of the old-fashioned farm-house room. Twilight
had fallen upon the Fen, and when at
length George's well-known fi oure emerged
from the mists which overhung Diggory's

Dyke, it looked ghostly in the waning light.
The housekeeper received Mr. Apers at the
foot of the stairs, and Jessie's voice summoned
him up. mr. Smith had sunk into a
deeper slumber now ; then, by the light of
the candle Which the woman had put into his
hand, Jessie read wdiat had happened at the
Vicarage in her brother's mournful eyes.
That fair countenance of his, which she had
not so very long ago half jestingly objected
to as being * always serenely nice-looking,'
was changed in expression, as though some
such shock, differing in kind, but as overpowering
in its effects, as that which had
prostrated Mr. Smith had befallen him
also. The poor fellow clearly had no
thoughts to spare for her or for her father-in-law.


He has seen Aurea,' Jessie thought.
 He cannot have received the message
which should have brought him to me
first. He has heard of her loss from her

OAvn lips; he has offered her loving sympathy;
she has rejected his pity, having no
further use for his love.'

HoTv is he?' Geordie asked, looking towards
the bed.

Better. He'll get over it this time, but
hardly the next  so the doctor says  and
he'll never be the same again. He sleeps
now. Put the candle in the window whilst
I draw the curtains at the foot of the bed;
then we can sit and talk.'

Is lie here ?' he asked.

Who ? Aurea ? Xo.'

I heard her leave the Aicarao-e. She
went away at least two hours ago.'

Went away !' said Jessie, startled. ' She
has nowhere else to go but here. Didn't
you follow her? Didn't you see where she
went to? You should not have let her
go. She is such a wild, impulsive creature.
'

AYellj if she has run away, it will not befor

the first time, when her circumstances
ceased to please her he answered gloomily.
Look here, Jessie : I suppose you can
guess what has happened, so it's no good
trying to keep up appearances. She has
crushed me this time  crushed me, that's
all.'

Brother ! Why didn't you come here
straight to me, as I asked you, and I
could have told you  told you it was of
no use to speak to her in her present
mood ? I should have left you a written
warning; had I thought there was the least
chance of your doing so; but the circumstances
of her father's death left me no
expectation of such a combination of evil
chances.'

I did not intend it. I could not help it.
I had no choice. She came down to me
herself and provoked the conversation.
What is the meaning of it, Jessie ? I
cannot understand it. If Weyland were a

different man, or a younger, I should say
that it must be he ; but I take it that he
is about the hast man ave to sacrifice his
judgment to his affections ; and he has
always declared himself embarrassed dth
the charge of his sister and the expense of
her boys' education. Surely such a man as
that cannot have been in the least likely to
have attracted a a'irl of Aurea's ao'e and
character.' -

They have been together almost daily,
and he has gained great influence over
her.'

And you allowed it ? It is not to bethought
of Why did you permit such a
thing?'

I had no authority to prevent it. Aurea
is of age, and is her own mistress. Perhaps
you can scarcely do him justice, George,
especially at this moment.'

Well, but what has occurred ? You
had better tell me at once. I had rather

hear it all. Nothing can be worse than the
present state of things. Nothing has ever
been half as bad.' George was thinking,
as Jessie knew, about that former time
when he had lost her, when Aurea had preferred
Leopold to him ; but that past grief
seemed to him now" but a trifling pang
compared with the bitter misery of this.
This was the loss of a hope, which although
he had declared that he would renounce it,
yet had spread its roots and fibres almost
insensibly into the deepest recesses of
his inmost being. Deprived of Aurea, the
whole of his future life now seemed emptied
of meaning. Vain, piercing regrets seized
him  he had left her so long alone. He
knew now that although he had told herat
Glen Combe that he made no claim for
himself, yet that practically he had counted
upon her recognition of such a claim. In
that hour the Avhole fabric of his existence
seemed to be falling in ruins around him.

In years to come, something, no doubt,
might yet be made of the fragments, and
time might sow the seeds which would
cover the ruin with fresh promise of spring ;
but in that moment he saw only desolation.

I have little to tell you, George,' Jessie
said sadly. ' I agree with you in thinking
Sir Crowsby not a man to commit himself
imtil his judgment has cautiously secured
the likely consequences ; but Aurea is very
excitable, very much swayed by changing
impulses. She has been in his company
constantly of late. I cannot say exactly
what has passed between them, my nature
rejects the role of duenna ; but I have
heard enough from her to know that her
self-love has been deeply wounded by some
declaration on his part amounting to this,
that he is not rich enough to afford himself
the luxury of marrying her.'

What a cad !' said the disappointed
lover, naturally disgusted with the man's

VOL. III. 46

share in the business. ' Is it possible that
he can have let her find out that? But
that is just what I wanted to know  that
explains all

Yes, that explained all ; it excused the
prominence which in her genuine grief
Aurea assigned to the lack of money ; it
translated that bitter speech of hers which
festered like a thorn in his memory: ' Without
money a woman's love is useless ;' and
that other equally troubled question : ' \Yhat
is the use of affection without the money',
which alone could give it value?' George
pushed his chair back, impatient of inactivity
; but as man is a reasoning as well
as a feeling being, he was sensibly relieved
at having thought the matter through.

AVhat is to be done now ?' he asked,
taking a turn in the room, which brought
him in full view of Mr. Smith's altered
features. ' I suppose you must stay herewith
this poor old man, Jessie ; but she

and I can scarcely spend our evening
together.'

That is all arranged,' said Jessie. ' She
will come here. She can share my room.
My father-in-law need not even know that
she is in the house. You must stay away
from the farm at present, and I will come
U23 to the Yicarage every day for an hour
or so, and will tell you how matters are
progressing, and what her plans are.'

Where do you suppose she is now ?'
asked George anxiously ; but before she
could answer him, from behind the moreen
curtains of the bed these words came intones
hoarse with agitation :

'Take down that fowling-piece! Take
it down, I say, directly ! Xever let me see
it again ! Do you hear ? It ought to have
been watchword twenty years ago. Henry !
Jessie! take it down!'

Mr. Smith had raised himself upon
his pillow, his arms outstretched, his eyes

46 2

wide-opened with some inward vision. As
the li:ht of the candle, which Jessie had
hastily snatched, fell upon his drawn
features, he fell back exhausted.

Not you, my dear ; not you,' he gasped,
as soon as he could speak. ' It is all
settled  the boat by which we are to go :
I forget the name. You Avill write for
berths to-night. The money is in the
bank in Cutthorpe. Go downstairs now,
and tell the housekeeper to make you a cup
of tea. The Yicar will stay with me. I
am anxious to speak with him alone.*

Jessie departed.

Ah, sir !' the old man said,  you come
from your father's bedside. Mr. Apers is
happy, whatever may be his sufferings, to
have such a son to stand by him in the
weakness of his old aoe. I had a vision
just now, in my troubled sleep : I thought
that my own son, my Henry  your sister's
husband, you know, as she told you in her

letter, soon after you went away  came back
to me, and stood where you now stand. And
I knew him  I knew him in an instant,
though a quarter of a century has gone by
since the morning that he went away and
left me desolate ; but he did not know me.
And of all the familiar surroundings of his
boyhood there was only one object that he
recognised  that was the old fowling-piece
that hangs over the mantelpiece in the
parlour. Take it down, sir ! for God's
sake oro downstairs and remove it. Take
it away  carry it to your own house 
destroy it, or do with it what you will ;
only let it be gone by when I recover, and
never let my eyes see it again. The first
day that he carried it himself was on his
twelfth birthdays, and never shall I forget
his pride and pleasure when I first consented
to his loading; it himself. He was
never so happy as when he spent long
hours away from school cleaning it and

polishing it. You know the end of the
story ? AVliat ! has }'onr sister never
breathed it to you ? Ah, I have to husband
the life that is left me ; it is not a
things that I have strength to tell. I have
a long journey to take, as you have heard ;
\Q are going to Australia ; the ship  I have
forgotten the name  sails next month. I
must save my strength that I may last
until I find mv son. But the fowlins:-
piece, take it away. Give it to nobody
else. For long years it was ujDon that
weapon that I fastened my revenge ; for
long years the sight of it before me in my
daily life closed my heart against my son.
It always reminded me if I would forget 
it always forbade me to forgive ; since then
it has been changed into the deadly weapon
which memory turns against my own heart.
But now my son came back, and in all the
place he knew no other thing than that.'
My good friend, you need not tell meany

more. AVhat you wish shall be done
immediately, if only you will rest now.
This agitation is most dangerous for you.
Jessie will remain with you, and you will
t well soon.'

George descended the creaking wooden
stairs, and from the dimly-lighted passage
made his way into the room below 
parlour, best kitchen, or living-room of the
farmhouse. The housekeeper sat by the
table, ostentatiously reading her Prayer-book.
It was open at the ' Visitation of
the Sick,' and had been so ever since
the Yicar had entered the house. She
was correspondingly scandalized when the
clergyman, without taking the least notice
of her decent presence, or of her seemly
occupation, crossed the floor with hurried
strides, and hastily proceeded to dislodge
one of the guns which hung upon the rack
over the mantel shelf. Screaming, she fled
into the back kitchen, where the fact that

the gun was unloaded did not prevent her
from loudly asserting that her brains had
been nearly bloTni out by the Rev. George
Apers, who'd gone raving mad. As he
passed by the door of the front room  that
formal drawing-room that was kept for
company  bearing his incongruous burden,
voices reached George's ears which told
him that Aurea Chapel was safe and was
there, and that she and his sister were in
eager converse. He could not hear the
words, but the tones of one at least of those
voices thrilled his senses and reached his
heart.

Fearful of meeting with that one of
the speakers, he softly stole out into the
gathering darkness of the Fen, crossed
Diggory's Dyke by the wooden foot-bridge,
and endeavoured to hasten through the
village, trusting to the increasing obscurity
of the evening to escape the observation of
the people ; but in this attempt he was not

to succeed  was to fail, indeed, in a very
signal manner.

At the Dailyss' cottage close by, outside
the farm gates, stood Susan Daily, peering
out into the darkness as though she were
watching for some one ; Bob, just behind
her, stood holding Mary December. No
sooner did the Yicar come within earshot
than Susan Daily rushed out, as though
panic struck at the sight of the gun.

 Oh, sir ! say you'll forgive her ; say
you aren't going to do nothing against her !
She's been used to be master, but it ain't
worth the while of a gentleman like you to
take so much notice o' she.'

George Apers could not sneak by as if
he had been up to something of which he
was ashamed. So coming to a standstill,
and holding his gun as if it were a fishing-rod,
he replied, in as easy a tone as he
could command :

What is the matter now, Mrs. Daily ?'

What on earth was it that the woman
meant ? For her anxiety was evidently
perfectly genuine. In George's ears there
was but one ' she ' on earth ; but Mrs.
Daily could not be thinking of Aurea
Chapel.

Sir !  Mr. Apers, for the love of heaven,
stop ! Bob, go for Mr. Apers's gun. Oh,
sir! and you a clergyman, with a gun in
your hand to murder a woman! but you
wouldn't do nothing by a poor obstinate
body that didn't know what she was saying,
and was half demented wi' trouble.
Sorrow's a sharp sauce, sir, and whiles it
sours the tongue ; but she didn't mean no
offence. Mr. Apers, say you'll forgive her.
I've been biding your coming a-purpose.
Now do I'

Foro-ive who, Mrs. Daily ? I really
haven't the remotest notion of what you're
talking' about. Xow don't excite yourself,
The run will not do you the

pray.

slightest harm. It is not even loaded.
I can assure you I am not going out
shooting anything whatever. I am merely
carrying it home for a friend, and your lad
there had better come and relieve me of
the burden.'

Well, I'm thankful to hear you explain
it. Bob, put that baby down, and come
here and take the Yicar's hunting-piece.'

Bob obeyed with alacrity. To exchange
a baby for a fowling-piece  what boy would
not have done likewise?

 You Slumsby women seem to be unaccountably
afraid of firearms; and yet I'm
told that your old Yicar, in his better days,
used to keep the church-door open in the
summer-time that he might watch the hares
and rabbits, the partridges and pheasants,
and the golden plovers scudding across the
churchyard, and that a loaded gun was his
constant companion,' said George. ' Well,
now, Mrs. Daily, what is all this about?'

Why 5 sir, haven't she told you ? Haven't
you left your young lady down at the farm ?
Haven't she named it to you? It's very
pretty of her if she haven't turned on
mother ; but my husband's mother, since
she was set to scrub the boards, has not
been to be advised. What with the insult
of being had up and set down so, what
with the stiffness in her joints, she have
not been herself neither in mind nor
body

Miss Chapel has not told me anything,
Mrs. Daily. I did not stop to speak to her.
I left her with my sister,' said George,
interested now in eliciting a story which
Susan was clearly eager to tell.

You haven't asked me why I'm out so
late, sir; and yet you might have done, when
Daily '11 be home for his supper before I've
settled the children. I've been to the Union,
and that's all about it. To think that she
didn't tell you how she didn't know our

Adam ! I was standing there in the middle
o' the ward, with my back turned to the
door, emptying my basket of the flowers I'd
brought for Adam, and he'd got the baby
lying on the bed by his side, when there
came a knock at the door.

" Come in," says I; and the young lady
what's been commanding of your sister
whilst you've been away steps in.

" Good-day," says she ; " I come to see
a boy named Adam Daily. My name,"
says she, '' is Chapel. I was the stranger
that was passing by the factory-gates when
he got his hurts. But that is not him," she
says, catching sight of Adam. " I never
saw that young man there before. 'Tis not
the same. There must be some mistake,"
says she. " It's a boy  a common-looking,
rough sort of boy by the name of Daily
that I want. Can you tell me where to find
him?"

" That is my son, and his name is Adam

January Daily, miss," says I ; " and he's
the one that got his ribs broke for you in
the street ; and well he mayn't do himself
justice to hear himself slighted like that " 
and him in a clean shirt of his father's that
I'd put on him only an hour before, and his
hair as smooth, sir, and nice as your own.
And because he Alas looking so shamefaced
and shy, T took and wrapped him round in
the red shawl off the baby, and he sat
there looking as fresh as a picture.

" It's all nonsense," says she. " That
was a boy that looked like a butcher, or
something of that kind  quite a different
sort of fellow to your son there."

' Well," says I, " I'm his mother, and I
ouo-ht to know ;" for I was vexed that
Adam shouldn't oet the credit of his
deeds. But he didn't seem to take it

so.

'smother," he says, " I shouldn't wish for
the young lady to know me again, for I'm

ashamed o' myself when I think how I
looked that day''

With that he held out to her the flowers
I had brought him  our Adam's such a one
for flowers; I'm sure he thinks I hurt 'em
when I'm throwing 'em away  and she
takes 'em civilly ; but all the while she
looks as if her thoughts were puzzles.

 " Perhaps you thought it odd I never
came before," says she ; " but I had not
forgotten you. I meant to have rewarded
you, if you really are the same ; but now,"
she says  and her lip dropped like my
Kitty's when she's going to cry  " but now
I've lost my father and my fortune too,
and I don't believe I shall have any money
left to give. So, lest it's true that I am
beholden to you, I've come to say my
thanks before I go away. I am very much
obliged to you, if you had any intention
of defending me, as Mrs. Smith says you
had."

" Miss," says Adam, looking just like
his father does, '' Vd have done the same
for any mrl that o:ot into such trouble in
the street through no fault of her own. You
owe me nothing," says he.

" What's that ? What's that ?" says my
husband's mother, hobbling in, and thumping
her stick on the bare boards. " Who's
that, that owes you nothing? Set you up
for yer father's son !"

Granny, sir, have taken to a stick since
she were set to scrub the boards, and
would 'a done so sooner had she known
how it would be; and she falls out with
everyone until she's had her say.'

Susan Daily was evidently shrinking
from this part of her story, but George,
whose interest was naturally excited by
anything so nearly touching Aurea, encouraged
its completion.

Granny, she turned right round on
Miss Chapel in a minute. " Xo," says she ;

"it's he as owes you every tiling, isn't it?
and most of all his broken ribs, which
could ha' been saved him, if you'd only
thought to ha' given the message I asked
you that day. Did you mislay your
memory," says she, 'ein yer hat, along o'
yer golden hair ?"

" Granny !" cries my son, trying to stop
her  and for very shame of the way she
could speak, I caught up the baby in hopes
it 'ud cry  but my husband's mother is not
to be mastered.

" It's all true," says she, " let who will
deny it. Couldn't you face us, Miss Chapel,
to ask if the poor lad was living or dying ;
or didn't it matter to you ? A pretty bride
you will be for the Vicar, that will buy the
poor man's blood and bones and say you
owe him nothing ! Rich you may be,
poor's my grandson ; but you'll not shift
the obligation, not if you give him all your
means  still you are beholden to the

VOL. III. 47

thatcher's son, and will be till you
die''

With that, Adam drew himself up in
the bed and ordered his granny to stop, so
as it made me tremble to think that the
lad had got such a spirit within him. The
young lady, poor tiling, was holding up the
flowers that Adam had given her and was
smelling at them ; but for all that, her
tears was running down over the leaves.'

Poor child !' said George involuntarily.

 But now she lifts her head up and
pushes back her shining hair, as though
she'd face old granny clearer.

" Mrs. Daily," says she, speaking bravely,
you must be very miserable yourself, to be
so hard on me. Was you never a girl
yourself, and did your own troubles never
drive other people's out of your head? I
am very cruel myself when I am in
trouble (some one else has told me so this
very afternoon," says she, " so I can feel

for you ; but if there's anything I could
do for you I'd try my best to make it up ;
only I've lost my father, and it's very likely
that I haven't got the means."

" Better be an orphan without father, nor
mother, nor home, when you're young, than
be an inmate when you're turned o' eighty,"
says mother.

" Now, grandmother' says Adam, " the
young lady can't help that  that ain't her
fault, any way ; besides, you know very
well that I mean to take you out of it."

" Oh aye, you'll follow my coffin when
I'm carried out in it," says mother.

'' You've been nearer following his," and
'' You aren't so old as you'd make out,"
says I and Adam, speaking at once. *' And
I'll help you to take your grandmother out
if I can," says Miss Chapel to Adam.

Mother, she hadn't no answer to make,
because you see she wouldn't give in in a
minute. So then Miss Chapel, she shook

472

hands with Adam and she came away, me
and the baby following her ; for my son
Adam, he says to me, " Mother, don't you
lose sight of her," and I answers, " No,
lad, I won't," for I couldn't have stood her
passing the factory gates again by herself
when they was knocking off work.'

That was very thoughtful of you, I'm
sure, Mrs. Daily.'

Well, you see, sir, her hair is very
noticeable, and then her hands was full of
Adam's flowers, and she has an air with
her that seems to strike the people as they
pass ; and not meaning no offence, they
have a way of looking at her pretty face
which perhaps you might not like. But you
may be sure, sir, I did not leave her; not
until we got among the lanes and Sir
Crowsby Weyland came along.'

 He overtook you, I suppose ?'

George almost despised himself for the
question, and yet he could not restrain the

uneasiness which prompted it. Even Susan
Daily saw the anxiety, whilst she naturally
assigned it to the simplest cause.

Sir Crowsby Weyland, sir, took just as
good care of her as I could have done
myself. You need not be afeared. When
he came riding along, and met her and me
and the baby picking our way, he stops and
pulls his mare up so hard that she almost
rounded on me and the child ; he seemed so
surprised at finding us there. Then he
jumps off and walks along by the side o'
the young lady, with his bridle on his arm,
and she began to talk to him so quick  so
quick as children chatters when they get
their way  and I just sliced by and came on
home. I saw her go down just now to the
farm, where no doubt you left her ; but if
you was to ask ]\Iiss Chapel, sir, to excuse
my poor old mother, I'd really take it kind;
for Mrs. Smith has always been a friend tome,
and I don't like as anyone that you

may say belongs to her should be so disrespected
through our means. Why, Adam
'ud have had another rib broke sooner than
have had it turn out so.'

All right, Mrs. Daily. Miss Chapel is
not likely to resent such a thing as an old
woman speaking her mind. She knows it
to be one of the privileges of age. You
can talk to my sister about it if you feel
inclined. Miss Chapel is staying with her
down at the farm. Stow, Bob, are you
coming to carry this gun?'

Bob eagerly caught at such a distinction.
Never in his life had he thought so much of
himself as during that short walk through
the village. It was a triumphant progress
to Bob. He cut every boy of his acquaintance
that he met, jointed his weapon at
every girl behind the Vicar's back, and did
not consider it needful even to recognise his
own father when they passed him on the
other side of the village street, trudging

homewards to his bed. He gave up his
precious burden with a sigh, when Mr.
Apers carelessly deposited it in the first
cupboard that was open in the kitchen passage,
and then, giving him sixpence, left it
there, as though he meant to think no more
about it. Indeed, George Apers was thinking
only about Aurea Chapel, and the significance
of her walk home that very afternoon
with Sir Crowsby Weyland. But if
George Apers forgot all about the fowling-piece.
Bob Daily, alas ! did not, as will
presently appear.

GOLDEN PROMISES.

!HE Ferrara sailed from the docks,
and went steadily on her course
down the river, but Mr. Smith
and his daughter-in-law were not among
the passengers. Indeed, she had been a
fortnight at sea before Mr. Smith had left
bed. For six long weeks had the old man
chafed at his slow recovery. For six
weeks had his daughter-in-law consumed
her heart in sorrow at the unavoidable
delay ; and for the same length of time
had poor unlucky Aurea Chapel spent her

monotonous days in the ugly farmhouse
drawing - room, with no pleasing occupations,
no diverting amusements, none
of the soothing elegancies of life  listlessly
sitting day after day in the uncomfortable
easy chair, with her feet upon the beaded
eyes of the Berlin-worsted parrot, staring
aimlessly at the yellow fly-catcher above
the deformed and dusty Cupid who had
disported himself upon the farmer's 
more than thirty years before.
This was pitiable. Jessie did her best to
enliven the girl, but the poor child was too
sad to cry, and could not even sleep. Never
in her brief active life of travel and of
change had such a thing as this happened
to her before. Vexation and annoyance,
anger and indignation, fits of excited passion
and outbursts of stormy grief Aurea
had known, but never this dreadful dreary
dulness, this depressing monotony, which
made it quite indifferent to her whether

she stayed at home or went abroad, whether
the sun was shining outside or not. This
weariness deprived her of all interest, even
in what she ate or wore ; the food was
the ordinary farmhouse fare, abundant,
but absolutely appetising. How, too,
could she care to look at her own dejected
image in the vulgar glass ? It could not
matter whether her muslin frills were fresh
and crisp above her sombre dress, or limp
and languid as she herself was now. Jessie
tempted her with books, but she did not
care to read. Her pity for her own fate
was too real to be transferred to the
imaginary woes of any heroine, and the
embroidery which she used to play with
she could not see to do, for the housekeeper
persistently pulled down the blinds,
lest the autumn sun, which struggled With
the early mists of the Fens, should fade
the Brussels carpet ; that terrible Brussels
carpet, whose stout constitution had for

years been treated Yith a tender consideration
awarded to the needs of no
tender human organization.

In pity for the childish misery of the

girl, Jessie buried the anxieties of her

own more powerful nature, and strove by

every means within her command to cheer

or interest her. In vain. Aurea, who

sparkled with life and vivacity when

admirers abounded, had no notion of

making an effort to lighten the universal

load of life when the cost of the endeavour

would be painful to herself Her world

was suddenly emptied of pleasure, and the

expression of her self-pity was restrained

by no desire for the comfort of others. In

one direction, and in one only, did she

display a feeble persistency of will. In

all weathers, wet or dry, fog or sunshine,

she chose for her walk in the afternoon

a path that led by a grassy lane past the

Manor House dovn by the Ferry. In

this choice of her walk she could not be
influenced by any idea of meeting the
owner of the place, for Sir Crowsby
Weyland had departed quite suddenly, on
the morning of the day succeeding that
on which he had met Aurea on her way
back from Cutthorpe. During that walk
Aurea had herself informed Sir Crowsby
of her father's death, and of her consequent
change of prospects. He, being under the
impression that she Alas already on her
way to Eome to join her father, had first
to express his commiseration and his surprise
at meeting her there ; but by the
time that Susan Daily had passed on,
leaving them to themselves, he had quite
recovered his wonted self-possession, and
his accustomed mastery of circumstances.
With paternal friendliness of manner, he
had unmistakably suggested to the astonished
girl that she should preserve her
dainty fingers from the dreaded grip of

poverty by safely placing them beforehand
in the willing grasp of Apers. Aurea
had heard him in bewildered silence, and
then she had passed on to the farm.

Had George Apers at that time boldly
entered the farmhouse drawing-room instead
of slinking through the passage,
unseen, with his gun, it is possible that in
the rush of excited feelings and intimation
against her chosen friend, Sir Crowsby,
the ffirl mioht almost have fluno herself
into his arms. As it was, she spared
his sister no breath of the storm which
wounded pride and repentant emotion had
raised in her changeable bosom, confidently
reckoning on the unselfish generosity which
could be safely trusted to subordinate personal
feeling to friendly sympathy. With
the first uncontrollable outburst, however,
vanished any change of feeling which might
have been favourable to George. Mention
of his very name was henceforth avoided by

Aurea, as well as by Jessie. He never came
to the farm, and Aurea purposely confined
her walks to the path which led nowhere
but to the Manor House, because during
Sir Crowsby's absence George Apers was
not likely to tread it.

Slumsby Yicarage was rendered doubly
distasteful to Miss Chapel's vexed imagination
now by the presence there of another individual
who was reproachfully associated in
her mind with unfulfilled obligations which it
galled her to remember. There, in the Vicarage
garden, Adam Daily pruned and potted
from morning to night, and on wet days,
or in the intervals of enforced repose, read
and studied in his bedroom, ofi" the kitchen,
with many a cheering word from Jessie,
and many an hour's instruction from her
brother when the gardening work was done.
When discharged, weak and half-cured,
from the infirmary, it was manifest, even
to xldam's father, that for him there could

be no return to the hilyard. Manifest also

was the indisputable fact that there must be

no return to the cottage. Adam was simply

crowded out, and even had the fourth place

in the bed in the garret still been available

for him, how induce those long limbs to

accommodate themselves to the space ?

James Daily, therefore, whilst preserving

his views about service, had been forced

to deny himself the pleasure of refusing

a home for Adam at the Vicarage. Two

reservations in the verbal agreement made

between himself and Mr. Apers, Daily did

not fail to insist upon  viz., that the service

which Adam accepted must be that of the

Vicar, and not of his sister, and that he

must never, with any message nor upon

any pretext whatever, be induced to cross

the threshold of the Sodden Farm estate,

for James Daily had taken a solemn oath

that not until he was master of the land

of which he believed himself unjustly deprived

would he or any of his family set
foot upon the coveted Fen.

The knowledge of Mr. Smith's serious
illness had stirred a dangerous excitement
in the brain of this morbid man ; and more
and more frequently was Susan Daily made
aware of his nocturnal vigils upon the
roof ; more and more gloomy did he
become in the cottage, more and more
unsociable amongst his mates at work.
The talk went round the village that the
thatcher was mad because the churchwarden
was in a fair way towards recovery, though
what possible advantage would accrue to
James Daily from a different issue to the
event none could possibly tell. When he
met his son Adam on some errand in the
village street, in the seemly clothing which
the Yicar had provided, Daily turned his
head aAvav, and in his sore heart blamed
the youth for having sold his independence
for the rewards of servitude  a full meal

and a whole coat. These encounters grew
very painful to Adam. From previous acquaintance
with his father's idiosyncrasies,
he readily divined the thing of which he
was accused, and not all the consciousness
of his innocence could atone to him for the
apparent impossibility of coming to a
better understanding with his father. And
yet; indeed, the slavery would have been
found in the life to which his father's pride
had doomed him, and not in the easy labour
of love which friendly care had provided
for him.

Every germ of fancy and imagination
which Adam possessed had been bred in
him by his boyish work in the open
air, among the trees and plants in the
broad expanse of the fens and in the fields
down by the river, in the care of his own
and his neighbours' gardens ; his labour
had frequently been solitary, but, whatever
its nature or conditions, had always been

VOL. III. 48

governed as to the time and manner of its
performance by his own inner rectitude,
never by the minute supervision or interposition
of rules. He had worked indeed
as a master governed by his own sense of
necessity, never as a slave governed by fear,
until the day he entered the factory at
Cutthorpe. And now, when he again
picked up his tools, the measure of his
enfeebled strength was the enforced measure
of Adam's performance. He could no
longer dig as he used to do ; fatigue overcame
him in a way to which he was
strangely unaccustomed : whether he would
or no, he was forced to confine himself to
the lightest operations in garden and
ground ; and if in his joy at his recovered
freedom, and his exhilaration at finding
himself once more beneath the open skies
and amonof the Teen things that he loved
SO well, he was tempted to forget the
dictates of prudence, Mr. Apers's kind

warning was ready : ' Remember, Adam,
sou have been very ill ; you must restrain
your ardour.' And Jessie, when she passed
through the garden on her morning visits,
would linger a moment to enforce the same
lesson : ' Go indoors now, Adam ; take a
book and rest awhile ; your labour will be
all the more effective, and you yourself will
be a more useful member of society by-and-by.
Oh yes, my brother shall take it
out of your wages, if that is what you're
anxious about: as many hours a day as you
can work you shall  be paid for, neither
more nor less.'

Xot infrequently Bob looked m to see the
brother whom he now treated with an odd
mixture of shyness and condescension.
Bob had a kind of contempt for Adam now,
because, though he had grown so lank and
tall, yet his physical strength was at present
inferior to Bob's own. But with this
contempt was mingled admiration, for

482

Adam's superior clothing and his white face
and hands, which in decision had lost the
marks of labour and of tan, gave him, in
Bob's eyes, the air of a gentleman ; and it
was a poor weak kind of thing to do, to bea
gentleman, to keep himself so clean, to
brush his hair so smoothly every day, and
to read so many books. Yet after all,
there was something fine about it too,
which made it very perplexing to Bob ;
and Adam could resent the imputation fast
enough, as Bob discovered to his cost when
he tried. Perhaps his mother was really
the only member of his family who
thoroughly sympathized with Adam in his
altered mode of life, and her simple-hearted
joy and pride in her first-born knew no
bounds, save those assigned by her husband's
unsympathetic presence ; but old
Mrs. Daily grumbled loudly because his
enfeebled hands could not immediately earn
enough to take her out of the house. Bob,

however, if lie was critical, was faithful
after the fashion of his sturdy kind ; in the
intervals of his own labour he would
follow Adam round and round the Vicarage
garden, now lending a helping hand when
the task was manifestly beyond the power
of the convalescent, now paying himself for
his good-nature by indulging in mocking
gibes at his brother's expense. But whenever
he came, there was one shrine to which
Bob never failed to make a pilgrimage 
that was the cupboard in the kitchen-passage
where Mr. Apers had deposited the
gun. Adam's little room was in that very
basement passage  was indeed but next
door to the cupboard  so that Bob's
presence in the house failed to attract any
attention ; and even had it been otherwise,
his fondness for that particular cupboard
might well have been excused, since it was
mainly devoted to the storage of garden-tools,
empty bird-cages, disused bee-hives,

and a mixture of odds and ends mostly
pertaining to outdoor service. Hidden by
these miscellaneous treasures, Bob easily
contrived to worship the object of his
desires in secret. He looked at it until
sight demanded the gratification of touch,
and by handling it he made the discovery
that rust was gathering on the polished
surface of the steel. He did not rest until
he had removed it, usino his rouoh fingers
for a rubber; and thenceforward, undetected
by the Yicar and unknown to his brother,
Bob spent all his leisure moments standing
in the cupboard, which was dimly lighted
by a single pane let into the upper panel
of the door, cleaning and polishing the old
gun, just as poor Henry Smith had once
done before him, with an energy which
proved the task to be one of personal choice.
But as every boy must have a confidant,
having first sworn Noah to secrecy, under
threat of hideous corporal punishment, to

him Bob revealed this tale of a fowlinsf-
piece.

This confession was made whilst they
were carrying straw for the purpose of
storing roots for the winter, down in one of
Sir Crowsby's fields by the Ferry. Had
they been girls, no doubt they would have
exchanged their confidences when lying in
bed. Being boys, they told them earnestly
when they were working under the silent
heavens. Besides, there was no room for
such communications to be made in their
crowded garret. The lads were so busy
with this tale of a gun  their heads as close
as permitted by the loads of straw with
which they were serving the men who were
laying turnips, that they started guiltily
apart when Bob's name was suddenly called
in clear ringing tones from the path which
skirted the edge of the field.

Eobert Daily ! Is that Eobert Daily ?
I want you. Come here.'

Bob raised his head, feeling very queer,
and saw that it was only the young lady in
black whom he had seen walking by there
every afternoon since he had been down
by the turnips. She generally passed very
slowly, went on to the end of the path,
then turned by the Manor House gates,
and had never spoken to him before.
Bob knew her perfectly well as the
'girl with yellow hair whom our Adam
stood up for,' but he had never thought of
giving any sign of recognition, and he was
surprised to find that she knew who he
was. He had not much opinion of girls
himself, believing that they were only made
to get honest chaps into trouble, and he had
a special prejudice against this one in particular,
as the original cause of the separation
between his elder brother and himself

Robert Daily,' cried the young lady
impatiently, ' why don't you come when
you are called ? Are you deaf ?'

Bob hurried and stumbled to the verge of
the field  a narrow ditch separated it from
the roadway.

I want you to tell your brother Adam,'
the young lady said, speaking decisively,
that he's to come down to the farm this
evening to speak to me.' Bob was silent,
and the young lady added: ' Mind you give
him the message  it's something very important
 he's to be sure to come.'

Adam'll not come,' muttered Bob.

'Not come!'

No, he'll not do it.' Then, after a pause:
Nor I wouldn't.'

The angry colour rushed into Aurea's
cheek.  All these Daily s are alike,' she
thought. ' Did ever anyone know such a
set? How thankful I shall be to be rid of
them for ever. Well, I certainly am not
going to the Yicarage after him she said,
so sharply that even Bob saw he had given
offence. But that was a matter about

which it was not in his nature to feel
concerned.

You can tell him that it is for his own
advantage to come she said ; ' that it is
about taking your grandmother out of the
House. But of course, if he does not choose
to walk so short a distance for such an offer
as this, whv, she had better remain where
she is.'

I'll tell him,' said Bob ; ' but he'll not
come, not if Farmer Smith were to send
him a wao-o-on to ride in.'

You are a very ill-bred boy,' said Aurea
loftily; 'you ought to know better than
to speak like that. Go back to your work,
and when you have done it, give your
brother my message, just as I have told
it to you. I meant to have given you
sixpence if you had been civil, but now you
have lost it.'

Don't want it,' muttered Bob, going
back to the turnips, whilst Aurea' s light

feet, winged with anoer and with swift
currents of prior excitement, carried her
quickly Lack towards the farm. Nevertheless,
Bob's behaviour had introduced a
disturbing element which contended with
her previous exultation. A big golden
wedge had been put into Aurea's expecting
hand that morning, and with it
she felt quite sure that she was going to
rule the world. Nerveless no longer, butin
an instant transformed into a triumphant
and exultant being, light of heart and fleet
of foot, longing for active motion, she had
once more fled to her favourite haunt by
the Ferry. There she had essayed the
point, just the least tiny point, of this
mighty force, with which she was going to
move all hearts, to smooth all obstacles, to
command all results, and to subdue all circumstances
to her t\t[11, and it had failed 
failed upon such a low and vulgar subject
as stupid Bob Daily.

In vain she told herself that it Alas
ridiculous, in vain she stopped at the next
stile to reassure herself by producing from
her pocket the wonderful lawyer's letter
which had just changed for her the earth and
skies; even in the face of this undeniably
authentic document Aurea was decidedly
crest-fallen. She would have been ashamed
to have admitted the cause, simply because
Bob Daily had not cared for sixpence, and
had plainly told her that her golden
promises could not even make his brother
obey her. How she loathed these dreadful
Radicals ! If she were Sir Crowsby
Weyland, how quickly would she turn
them out! But at the memory of that
name rose a fresh exultant tide of feeling.
She sprang from the stile, thrust the long-blue
envelope back into her pocket, removed
her black hat, heavy with crape, that the
keen breeze of autumn might freely lift the
masses of her sunny hair, and hurried on.

The measure that her feet kept time to
was unsung, but her heart supplied the
rhythm. The words unrhymed were such as
these : * What would Sir Crowsby say now,
when he heard it ? How would he look ?
How would he take it ? Would he not wish
the past undone ? Would he remember
how fatherly he had been? What would
he think of all the advice he had given
her now?' 'Ah, Sir Crowsby, who risked
so little and lost so much ; was my golden
hair too dear at the price? Who will build
up your old roofs now?'

'Jessie! Jessie!' she cried, dancing into
the house and flinsrino; herself down at her
friend's feet; ' have you ever lived through
a day like this ? To be so glad, to be so
young, to be so rich ! One moment to
have been a dull black shade, a creature
with no home to call your own, counting
the dreary', monotonous hours, till everyone
that struck seemed more endurable than

that Avliicli was to come, and then  what
was it that really did happen, Jessie? for
I think I have forgotten. Was it really
nothing but a postman's ring and a clerk's
pen, writing for a London firm, from a
corresponding house in Rome, words of
which at first I could make nothing ?
Read it again, please, Jessie; are you sure
you made it out? It seems too good to
be true. To think of poor papa spending
such a lot of money every year on pictures
and objects of charity and art, and yet
having such a lot to leave to me ! Why, he
must have kept mamma and me quite easily,
and after all have saved a fortune. It can't
be true, Jessie. It will turn out after all to
be some blunder of this stupid clerk ;
pleasant things are mostly lies, and pleasant
people mostly false. Men, I mean, not
women, you know  not you, Jessie ; oh no,
not you.'

It seems to be true enough, Aurea,

that your father lias left you a very rich
woman ; but Whether it will be a good
thing or not, that depends '

Oh yes, I know all about that  that's
how people always talk, and, begging your
pardon, Jessie, it is such humbug. As
though money wasn't always a good thing,
wasn't really the most powerful thing in
the whole world  as tholio-h it couldn't
really buy you everything, love included!
Ah, you may frown, but remember, I've
really seen a great deal more of life than
you have in your corner, Mrs. Smith, and
papa always said I had great acuteness of
penetration. With money you can always
do what you like yourself, and you can
make other people do it too, and that is the
great point.'

Can you indeed ?' said Jessie incredulously;
and Aurea did not answer, for she
had suddenly and unpleasantly been reminded
by her own words of Bob Daily

who didn't want sixpence, and of Adam
who hadn't come to get the money for his
grandmother. She did not like the doubts
suggested by this remembrance, so she continued,
somewhat irrelevantly, * With people
in society it is true, at any rate.' Jessie
was silent. Now Jessie's more intimate
friends were in the habit of saying that her
silences were the most eloquent thing about
her, but to Aurea s intelligence they merely
conveyed an irritating doubt where there
could not possibly be two legitimate
opinions, and she resented them accordingly;
but just now she was in no mood to
take offence.

Jessie,' she said, la vino her bright
head in her friend's lap, so that her face
could not be seen, ' will three or four
thousand a year really be a great deal for a
girl without any brothers or sisters, and
who will have it all at her own disposal ?
Should you say that I was an heiress, for

instance? Is it more than most girls have,
when they are thought a good deal of ?
What sort of things will it do ? Would
it set an old family up on its tottery legs
again, or would it require a match-box -
maker's daughter, with half a million of
money, to do that ? I want to know :
please say. Then, you see, there are all
those treasures in Rome. It would be
nice to keep them all together, if one had
a big house to put them in. They represent
the investments of so many years of
papa's life. Poor dear papa ! How could
he be so foolish as to throw away those
thousands and thousands of pounds, and
not to let mamma and me know anything
about it ! We used to think that he was
always selling out his capital; my uncle
said so too. He felt quite sure that his
artistic tastes would reduce mamma and
me to ruin. Oh dear ! I wish poor dear
mamma were alive again, and papa too, and
VOL. III. 49

then we should all be quite happy. It
seems such a pity that it could not all come
straight until they both were dead and I
was left alone. I'm more alone than you
are, you see, Jessie; and yet I'm so much
younger.'

With this the excitable girl let fall a
rain of tears, which were not dry before
she asked :

 Won't Leopold be sorry now that he
behaved so badly ! and what will aunt and
uncle say when they remember how they
shut their doors against me? It was only
you that took me in when I was sad and
lonely; and if I had known I would have
been nicer to you, Jessie  I really would 
all the time that I have been living hereat
the farm. But you see, I could not help
it; I could not be expected to be nice and
pleasant when I did not know that poverty
was not staring me in the face, and I did so
hate to be poor. It does not matter so

much for some people. stow I should not
think you would mind it half so much,
because you have got strength of mind and
all that sort of thing. But I have not got
anything to support me at all, except my
hair. And even that was not half the comfort
that you might have thought. What a
pity it is that people should have troubles
which oblige them to make themselves
disagreeable to others without any fault of
their own ! You see you must have gold
in your hands, as well as on your head, to
please some people. It may not be exactly
nice of them, but they must not be too
much disliked for it. You understand me
now, don't you, Jessie?'

There are some people, Aurea, who
would have preferred the golden head with
the empty hands,' was the reply; for Mrs.
Smith could not refrain from this, her first
and only allusion to her brother's generously
offered but cruelly despised affection,

492

now that Aurea's changed circumstances
placed a fresh obstacle m the way of his
renewing a discarded suit.

Oh yes, I know all that,' said Aurea, in
answer to this remark, * and no doubt it's
very good of them to prefer a gilded pauper ;
but then, you see, I prefer myself as I am
now. All the same, I'm very sorry.'
Then she added, speaking gravely, and
rising from her low seat at her friend's
side:

 The fact is, Jessie, that your brother
is quite too good for me. I like him very
much, and I'm not a bit ungrateful to him,
or to you either, whatever you may think.
I can't imagine what in the world would
have become of me without you both ; and if
you think he'd care for a window for his
church, or anything of that kind, I hope
you'll let me know. But you cannot really
marry anybody, you know, Jessie, just
because they've been awfully good to you,

and because you feel ever so grateful ; it
really would be no kindness to him to do it.
Listen, Jessie. Lift your head up and look
at me. Those soft brown eyes of yours
are in their way quite as good as my
vaunted wig, only you don't make half
enough use of them. Xorw then, finally ;
if I were to marry your brother as things
are now, I should make him perfectly
wretched. Oh yes, you're going to deny
it ; but I know how it is. You'd want
me to alter. You'd expect, and so would
he, to see me sobered and steadied. You
think I might improve and be reduced to
reasonableness, and you'd hope to see mein
fact, no longer Aurea Chapel, but some
sort of new development with Aurea for a
basis. Xow, I tell you plainly, it would not
do at all ; and this is the truest word I've
ever spoken to you. Some day your brother
will come to see it as I see it now, and then
he will praise my judgment. Why, you

are beginning to see it immediately. Confess
now, Jessie, bearing in mind this certain
fact, that there is going to be no
reformation  that whatever Aurea Chapel is
now, her husband, whoever he may be, mil
find her still more so.'

And Jessie was forced to  confess,'
though with a sigh for her brother's wasted
affection ; whilst Aurea thought, ' Oh dear !
I do just wonder what I shall do with
myself next, now that I am entirely at my
own disposition. The sooner I go from
Sodden Farm, the better for me and for
these dear people.'

Oh, Jessie,' she cried, pausing at the
door, ' to think that this great happiness
was in the world yesterday, and that I did
not know it!'

The world is neither better nor worse
than it was, Aurea ; there are plenty of
people at this moment learning the misery
that was in the world yesterday, and that

they did not know,' said Jessie ; and the
girl turned away, singing as she left the

room

Little hands hold muckle gold."

IN THE MOOD FOR ACTION.

HE Yicarage orchard was the
highest spot in all the level
landscape taken for miles around,
and there Adam Daily was planting saplings
to replace the gnarled, moss-grown, and
ivy-covered codlings of half a centmy's
growth  whereon one apple might scarcely
be found where used to hang a score  when
he was overtaken by a thunderstorm
memorable in the annals of that year  a
storm which in one short half-hour swept
the whole area of the land, stripping the

sold and crimson covering; from the autumnal
trees, and spreading it for a gorgeous
mantle over the sombre surface of the earth.
Lower down towards the river, the dykes
were flooded to overflowing, and Sodden
Fen was more than half submerged.

Escaped so lately from his prison-house
and cell of suffering, where, cabined between
four narrow walls, he had sighed beneath
the pressure of needful but vexatious
denials  fresh from the repulsive details
and painful monotony of sickness upon a
pauper's pallet, Adam's spirits rose with
the sweep of the wind which bent the
branches over his head. Undismayed by
the heavy thunderstorm, undaunted by the
vivid flashes of lightning, with the roar of
the storm in his ears, a rush of new and
vigorous life uplifted his spirit. Wild
emotions, stirred by the majesty of the
tempest, carried him out of himself.
Amidst the strife of the elements his

senses revelled in a flood of grand impressions.
After the sleepless watchings
of his nights and the uneventful studiousness
of his days in the Workhouse infirmary,
Adam had escaped again into the
free air of heaven, into the strong harmonious
life of nature. In his awakened
eyes trees and fields, grass and flowers had
a still more marvellous beauty, a sweeter,
rarer fragrance than he had ever known
before; whilst at their touch throbs of pleasure
more intense and keen thrilled him
from nerve to brain.

Accustomed from childhood to face the
elements, Adam had none of that undefined
superstitious dread which peoples the world
with forces as revengeful as they are blind;
he had never learnt to quake with vague,
imaginary fears, had never grovelled
beneath ghostly terrors. Alone in the
vast open Fen on dusky evenings, when
low drifts of cloud obscured the setting

sun, when the tender leaves of the willows
and aspens sighed and shivered together,
when the bending reeds whispered their
secrets out of a rising mist  then, when the
whole earth and sky seemed full of mysterious
voices and instinct with the presence
of mysterious forms, he was at home
in the solitude which shrouded the face
of Nature. She was his friend, tried
and true, not his vindictive foe. Even
in her wildest moments, when the
music of the hurricane resounded now
in triumphant anthems, now in majestic
dirges through the temple of the winds, his
spirits rose and fell in harmony with the
symphonies of the unseen choir. Instead
of on a poor, mean couch, shut in by the
narrow enjoyment of white-washed walls,
counting in agony or in weariness the
passage of the dull, dark hours, how good,
he held it in his secret thought, must be
his fate, who all unwarned might cease to

be, where, unmurmuring and unwept,
leaves and flowers laid down their sweet
short lives.

Beaten with the wind in the face, blinded
with the lightning in his eyes, deafened
with the roar of the tempest, whilst the
whole plain was on fire with light, Adam
stood now erect and joyful, fresh from the
spur of renewed labour, elated with the
conquest over bodily weakness, drunk with
the joy of healthful recovery, the consciousness
of life and power shining in his countenance.
That one of those glorious shafts
of light that played around him might
quench his flickering vital spark, leaving
him where it met the earth, upon her bounteous
lap among the flowers, inspired him
with no conscious dread, but, as a glorious
imagination, roused his spirit with an
exultant forecast of splendid destiny. To
stand one instant, radiant, quick, instinct
with life, the next to be caught by the

transfiofurino; stream of olorv, to be one
with it  who would not choose this rather
than the slow process of immured decay?
Take me out into the open he had entreated
his grandmother, on that first night
of his bitter suffering in the infirmary, ' and
let me die in peace among the rushes in the
Fen His imagination had been since enkindled
by the story of the martyrdom of one,
on fire in soul with some divine idea, who,
letting the flames leap upon his hands, had
felt no hurt. Visions of chariots and horsemen
of flame, vivid representations of the
burning mill upon Sodden Fen, filled his
ardent fancy as he stood ; whilst down
below in the plain the smoke of the burning
homestead seemed once more to ascend in
his sight, as it had formerly done in that
of his martyred kinsman. But in his heart
there buried a steadier flame of duty, hope,
and aspiration, which promised faithful service
of the faiths and friends he had learned

to love so well. Out of the destruction of
his old boyish life he had gained new hopes,
new aims, new ends ; and he would live for
them with ardour and with purpose. His
old world had slipped from him when he
lay upon his workhouse mattress, but a
new world had become alive to him. Devotion
to fresh ideas had given him fresh
life, which would claim its expression in
wider ranges of action. He would work
still ; but as all that lives must grow, and
in growing change, his work must have a
freer scojdc, a more extended significance 
must more swiftly translate the progress of
his development, intellectual and moral.
But how ? That he scarcely saw as yet.
He had first to take his grandmother out of
the House ; but this humble aspiration,
which had once been the beginning; and
end of all his ambition, the one thing
which it seemed possible to him to accomplish
as the fruit of all his labour, though

Still Ms first object, was now his first only.
Beyond it he saw other possibilities, divined
other interpretations of the lesson of love
and service. That some such enlargement
of purpose was already present with him,
became evident to Mrs.' Smith, when,
shocked at his exposure to the storm, she
hurriedly summoned him into the house.
Hastily shifting his dripping garments, and
laying his saplings by the roots for planting
on some fairer dav, he stood before her,
ready to listen to her representation of Miss
Aurea Chapel's proposal.

I could not come to the farm last
night,' Adam hastened to apologize. ' I
trusted that you would explain the reason
that my father's prejudice prevents me ;
but I mil gladly meet Miss Chapel at any
place she chooses to appoint, ]airs. Smith, if
you will have the kindness to arrange this
for me. At the same time, I would rather
say at once that I can quite well keep my

grandmother myself as soon as I am
strong enough to do a full day's work,
and that I desire to incur no obligations
to Miss Chapel, for she is under none to
me

There you are wrong, Adam, whether
you understand it or not. Miss Chapel
suffers from a sense of indebtedness to you,
and you have no right to decide that she
should continue to do so. Why should you
demand the sacrifice of her pride to preserve
your own?'

I did not intend it so,' said Adam, somewhat
surprised ; ' but it has always been the
first object of my life to make my grandmother
a home.'

Very well, then, make it the first, but
not the second and the third and the last.
As a duty, it may occupy the foreground,
but it need not fill the whole horizon. Miss
Chapel is able and willing to provide for
your grandmother at once. She has succeeded

to a large fortune, and she wishes to
make this the first use of her money.'

Adam still hesitated.

I always said I'd do it myself

You are doing it yourself, or rather, you
have done it. Miss Chapters proposal is in
reality the direct result of your own prior
action. I respect the generosity of sentiment,
Adam, which has made you refuse to
admit the young lady's obligation to yourself
; but for once truth compels me to set
it aside. You have as much earned your
grandmother's emancipation by the injuries
which you suffered in the street, as though
the allowance which Miss Chapel will make
her were paid out of your oti weekly
earnings. You made this the first object of
your life, you say. Well, it is accomplished,
as so many of the best accomplishments in
life are brought about, less by the distinct
achievement of a given result in a chosen
way than by the indirect bias given to con-vol.

III. 50

duct by the impress of a dominant idea.
The task that you set yourself is accomplished,
not by the laborious effort of years
of toil, but by the unforeseen swift agency of
unexpected circumstances. I would not
ask you to take any material recompense
for the sufferings you endured for yourself,
but for old Mrs. Daily's sake I think you
might be willing fairly to consider Miss
Chapel's proposal. Society demands such
interchanges of friendly offices, and as a
member of it, you, who have learnt to
render services, must also learn the far
harder lesson of how to accept them. I do
not ask you to do it for your own sake. I
refused long ago to gratify Miss Chapel by
being instrumental in suggesting to you
some common reward ; but the young lady
has seen your grandmother, she feels interested
in her, and what she is willing to
give, old Mrs. Daily is equally willing to
accept.'

Oh yes, granny would be ready enough,'
Adam replied ; but still he hesitated.

Are you doubtful about your father,
then ?'

No ; father takes less and less notice of
what goes on in the family.'

 Then consider this matter settled, and
see now what further task lies before you.'

I know it. I have seen it already,'
cried Adam eagerly. ' I have only been
putting it off until this was done first.'

 Then accept its accomplishment as the
fulfilment of duty on the part of another,
consequent upon your fulfilment of duty
towards her.'

I will let it be so, then, said Adam.
Miss Chapel came to offer me her thanks
when she thought she could discharge the
supposed obligation in no other way. I do
not feel, therefore, that I owe her thanks
in return ; but please say this to her,
Mrs, Smith, that I am very glad, for my

502

grandmother's sake, that she should be
placed in a happier way of life ; also, pray
assure her that I recognise the discharge of
any obligation she may have felt to be
incurred towards me. Will that do, dear
lady ? Have I learnt to accept services ?'
he asked, with a quiet smile.

Jessie smiled in reply.

Only the merest rudiments of the art
mastered, Adam.'

Then you must be prepared to teach me
the difficult lesson by example, madam,
since I find it so hard in precept.'

Try me, Adam ; I will not promise,
but I WT.11 endeavour to bear in mind that
which I have taught you.'

snow for Miss Aurea Chapel,' thought
Jessie, as she presently took her way back
to the farm ; but that young lady danced
out at the gate to meet her, triumphantly
waving a letter in the air.

A letter, Jessie  such a joke !  from

Sir Crowsby Wey land's sister ! Just listen
to this : humbly begging for the favour
of a visit from myself, at her hospitable
mansion up in town ! Did she express
any such amiable desires before, when you
took her to admire the sea-kale ? Why, I
wasn't even civil to her ; it was you who
victimized yourself to entertain her, and
yet she has forgotten your existence.
Moreover, it is evident, even to the most
unsuspicious disposition, that she has
expressed these hospitable desires solely at
her brother's instigation.'

And it is evident to my suspicious one,'
added Jessie, ' that Sir Crowsby Weyland
has probably heard that which gives Miss
Aurea Chapel's society a new value in his
eyes.'

Well, he shall rue it,' said Aurea
blithely.

You will refuse, of course ?'
 * On the contrary, I shall accept ; of

course, with a view to future refusals,
and reminders and remarks, which will
make them sorry that they ever asked me

I doubt it, Aurea,' said Jessie.

Dear soul, you were born doubting, and
you'll die doting. But tell me, is it all
right about the old woman Daily ? If so,
111 go and fetch her out of the House
myself. I'm in the mood for action, and I
shall like to see what I have escaped.'

Accordingly, that very afternoon the
young lady might have been seen standing
in the middle of the long bare day-room of
the Union, where she produced upon the old
women the impression of a sort of irritable
angel come to carry their companion off.
Her black hat could not hide her shining
hair ; the high heels of her little shoes
tapped the well-washed boards with a well-assumed
mixture of authority and petulance.
People were never so quick as all that, after
two-and-twenty years spent in the House.

Come, Mrs. Daily, now do make haste !
Give me the keys of your dressing-bag, and
tell the porter to fetch down your portmanteaus
when he has quite done rubbing
up the knob of the door-bell.'

The old women chuckled. This was a
joke they could understand ; but Mrs.
Daily, confused and bewildered by the
suddenness of Aurea's arrangements for her
departure, showed no signs of comprehension.


You took me for a lady's-maid, now,
don't you remember, Mrs. Daily, the first
time that I met you in the street ? Well,
here I am now, quite at your service,
discharged by Mrs. Apers Smith, who
hasn't found me suit. Tears ! Why, what
on earth are you weeping for ? Why, they
are not sorry to lose you. They'll be a great
deal more comfortable here without you,
and you'll be a great deal more comfortable
outside without them.'

All the old hags around the fire gurgled
their appreciation of the encouraging statement,
and ancient Sally from her armchair
in the corner pointed out another aged
crone as already usurping Grandmother
Daily's vacant chair.

Yes, nov, and what a comfort that is
said Aurea cheerfully, ' to think you make
so much more room for those that will come
after you ! To know you won't be missed 
why, what a blessing it is ! I'm going away
myself, so I can say the same.'

Oh, Mrs. Daily needn't put herself about
with consideration for our feelings,' said a
decided voice from the doorway, which, on
turning round, Aurea found to belong to
the matron, who had looked in to superintend
the departure. ' The most deserving
among them here are not, I am sorry to
say, the ones that meet with the lest friends.
I trust, miss, I am sure, that you may find
Grandmother Daily requite your kindness

better than she has done ours  the master s
and mine. I'm sorry to say as much,
but I always speak of people as I find
them.'

Just so,' observed Aurea serenely; ' and
then if other people do not always find them
just as you speak of them, you cannot help
it, can you?' The matron wasn't quite
sure of the drift of this reply, so she fell
back morally upon her husband, who had
also appeared upon the scene.

'Well, Mrs. Daily,' he said, addressing
the old woman, who still stood irresolutely
upon the threshold, 'we shall see you
back here again before the end of the week,
I don't doubt. You old ladies are capital
hands at imposing on the feelings of kindhearted
people ; but it takes a Board, I can
assure you, miss, to accommodate itself permanently
to the ways of these trying old
paupers.'

It's on account of her brother losing

his place at the factory, by reason o' our
Adam's accident, that they rounded like
that on me,' Mrs. Daily explained, when
she found herself safely walking by the
young lady's side along the lanes that lead
to Slumsby. * But you'll not find yourself
deceived in me, Miss Chapel; though I don't
mind owning to you fairly that I've been
deceived in you, and so I tell you plainly
now that we're out i' the road.'

I shall not be here to be mistaken in
you. Grandmother Daily: I'm going away
directly ; but Mrs. Smith will pay you this
amount of money for me every week as
long as you require it. Take care ; there's
one week's money in your hand.'
And what's it for, Miss Chapel ?'
I haven't a notion, Mrs. Daily, unless
it's because you were a downright honest
old soul, and told me what you thought of
me when I came to see your grandson in
the Award.'

Then it is to Adam that I am owing
my free living ? and is it Iii I have to
thank r

Undoubtedly, if he will let you.'

Then when I am living down in the
village with a tidy place to call my own,
and my daughter's children playing round
me, with the littlest one in my arms, shan't
we ever see you coming up from the Ferry,
nor yet as a bride stepping out of the
Yicarage ?'

Neither at the Yicarage nor yet at the
Ferry, Mrs. Daily; but if ever you meet
a girl in the village with my shade of hair,
mind you send her on an errand, because
you see that it answers.'

'And I'll give her my blessing,' said
Grandmother Daily, 'even if she forgets
it.'

OUTWARD BOUND.

some evenings later George Apers
sat alone in his study, his head
buried in his hands. Aurea
Chapel had left the farm that day. He
had seen her go by to the station ; but she
had thoughtfully spared him any adieu.
For him this departure had not even the
poor comfort of finality, for there had been
no need to translate for him the meaning
of that friendly letter from Sir Crowsby
Weyland's sister ; and George Apers bitterly
foresaw the probability that time would

bring: Aurea back aorain ; and that as the
wife of Sir Crowsby Weyland, he must
learn to meet her at the Ferry and in the
village, the same, yet not the same, that
he had known before. For hours the
dejected man sat unoccupied and undisturbed,
filling the blank which spaced
two chapters in his life with thoughts of
bitterness indeed, but of a bitterness which
infused no poison in the stimulating draught
of pain. True, the world seemed as desolate
to him that night as his own heart was
empty; but he had told Aurea Chapel,
when she accepted the offer of his interference
between herself and her former
lover, that he would for her fair namesake
henceforth for himself renounce all
hope of her ; and he could not justly blame
her if she afterwards exacted the price of
his proffered friendship. There was a
tenacity of purpose about Aurea's conduct
which, with all her apparent vacillation,

robbed the hurt she inflicted of the sting
of caprice. Beneath that apparently childish
nature of hers, George had not been mistaken
in divining the presence of a womanly
judgment. Aurea Chapel had in all probability
judged rightly for herself ; and
even now he could imagine that the day
might come when he should find that she
had judged rightly for him likewise. Her
decision was one he could respect, even
while he suffered from it.

For a considerable time he sat immovable,
for Adam Dail', who generally came for his
lesson at that hour, failed to appear on this
occasion. Before the evening was ended,
however, came Adam's firm knock at the
door. George resumed something of his
wonted attitude, but Adam's scrupulous
avoidance of his gaze told him that the
peasant lad observed more than he seemed
to see. Not for the first time was George
Apers thus impressed with a consideration

on Adam Daily's part, which was as delicate
as it was untaught. This impression
was immediately to be strikingly deepened.
With an unusual hesitation of manner,
Adam remained standing by the door of the
room.

Sir,' he said, ' I am sorry to trouble
you. Would you rather that I waited till
tomorrow ? I am come for no lesson. It
is something far more important that I have
to say.'

Speak on, Adam. All times are alike.'

Sir, I have been down to the village to
see my father. I want you to let me leave
you.'

This he said colouring with an emotion
which his remaining: weakness made it
more difficult for him to hide.

To let you leave me, Adam ? That is
the last request I expected to hear from
you. I suppose that your father is the
cause of this decision?'

Sir, it is nothing of the kind. My
either sticks to what he said at first, but I
am grateful, deeply grateful, to you and
Mrs. Smith. It is for that very reason
that I desire to go, that I may serve her
better, that I may express in action by the
service of my life, that which my lips cannot
say. My first object was my grandmother,
as Mrs. Smith knows. I have left
her now in a little house of her ol, thanks
to Miss Chapel; and now, sir, I want to
emigrate, to go to Australia, to seek for
Mr. Henry Smith. I can work out there,
as I have worked here. The voyage will
set me up in health and strength. You see,
sir, Mrs. Apers Smith cannot go herself.
She is wasting' her life with sadness overdoing
her duty by Mr. Smith, and he will
never part with her now he has got her.'

George Apers's looks expressed unbounded
surprise and blank disapproval of
Adam's suggestion ; but he was not prepared

to commit himself to definite speech
at once, and Adam went on, eager to forestall
the objections he divined :

 This is what I Avant to ask you, sir :
will you arrange it all with your sister, and
tell her all that I have not dared to say?
Perhaps you may think I'm too forward in
naming the subject at all ; but she will not
think so: she has shared her grief with my
mother, and we only respect her all the
more. Get me all the particulars necessary
to my plan, sir, if you will be so
good, and set me in my way to start upon
the earliest day that it is possible for me
to go.'

Adam had hit the mark when he said
that the Vicar probably thought him too
forward; but still, until he had consulted
with his sister, George was not prepared to
take the responsibility of refusing to entertain
the request. He merely remarked
somewhat coldly:

VOL. III. 51

It is a wild scheme, Adam, but a grateful
tliou2:lit.'

No, sir, not so wild as perhaps it strikes

you at first sio;ht. I have thought it allover.

There are openings everywhere for

strong and willing lads. My strength will

have come back in full before I land. I

have been reading up all I can find about

the country with this thought in my mind;

though I could not see my way until Miss

Chapel helped me to it by taking my first

task here on herself, and I have thought

that you would help me with your advice.

There are facts in the story with which I

am not sufficiently acquainted. There is

some help in money at the outset which I

must borrow, to repay as soon as I earn

the means. I've got up the localities, and

wherever I go I shall be on the look-out,

and if ever I get any clue I shall follow it

up. I shall make inquiries everywhere, and

I may have to stay for years ; but so long

as I succeed at last I shall not count them
up. I had rather die out there doing mj
best for Mrs. Smith. It may seem to you
a liberty when I propose it here, but out
there it will not be so. I shall work pretty
much as Mr. Smith's own son worked; and
even you, sir, will not think it strange that
a colonist should undertake that for your
sister, which from a village lad would hurt
your feelings.'

This covert reference to his pride put
George Apers on his mettle.

And how about your own ambition,
Adam ?' he asked coldly ; but the next
instant repented the insinuation, for Adam's
answer was an earnest, nay, even a tearful
entreaty.

Prove it, sir ; I am ready to declare
that if you are only kind enough to take
me back, so soon as I return, I will thankfully
come back here and work as your
gardener. I only desire to prove that Mr.

512

Henry Smith is still alive, or to establish
the fact of his death ; and I shall have a
better chance of succeeding in this, and of
making my way, than either a lady or a
poor frail old man.'

I cannot tell in the least how all this
may strike my sister, Adam. You must
speak to her yourself; but of this I am
sure, that if you are to be permitted to
undertake such an enterprise with this one
sole object in view, both Mr. Smith and she
will feel that it must be at their expense,
and not at the cost of your own enfeebled
strength.'

That, sir, is a point which I entreat you
not to raise,' said Adam firmly, ' for my
father's objections to my being employed
as the agent of Mr. Smith could not be
overcome; and I myself feel sure, from some
words of Mrs. Smith's own, that she will
understand and will accept my offer.'

'And I3ray, how do you propose to

arrange matters, as it is, with your father?
You're not going to tell me that he has
given his consent to your going out to
Australia to bring back Mr. Smith's son,
Mrs. Apers Smith's husband!'

Sir said Adam, with a look of poignant
distress mingled with deep embarrassment,
pray don't ask me that question ; my father
is a very strange man. It is quite impossible
for any human being to calculate
beforehand how a thing may strike him.
I have left him but now. He knows of my
project. I would rather say no more.'

Stand aside, boy ! Let me speak for
myself! Why, I've been here all along.
Didn't you hear me as I followed you in
the dark, all the way up from the village ?'

The voice was James Daily's, and it was
startling in its rugged intensity. The man
thrust the slender figure of the lad aside,
and with rough and unshaven face, hat on
head, and unchanged workman's clothing.

stepped from the shadow of the passage
into the lighted room. His whole attitude
and manner was that of a drunkard in
extreme excitement ; but James Daily was
drunk only with the hope of revenge.

Let him go, sir ; send the lad along,'
he vociferated hoarsely. ' Aye, let him goto
fetch my enemy back to me. It'll be the
best day's work a parson ever did. And
then Henry Smith and me will fight it out.
We'll fight it out, man to man, blow for
blow, in the old way, and we'll see who's
to be master o' Sodden Fen!'

George Apers had risen to his feet at the
first shock of the man's aspect ; now he
raised a hand in the endeavour to make
himself master of the situation. In vain.
Swaying himself backwards and forwards in
an agitation so extreme as to deprive him
of the full command of his limbs, James
Daily continued :

Send the lad along, I say ; what do you

keep him here for, planting apples and
fooling over learning? What right ha' you
got to withhold him when he says he'll
emigrate, and I'm his father, and I say he
shall? Ain't the world free for us as well
as for you? You let him go, I say  he
can work his own way out  or I'll make
you repent it among you!'

Father !' pleaded Adam, when the angry
man paused, wiped the sweat from his brow,
then thrust his hat down again over his
eyes.

Mr. Daily,' said George, ' let me speak, I
entreat you.'

Nay, I'll none o' your speaking. Let
you speak ! Who's hindering your speaking?
You've got your own pulpit o' Sundays
: and you may speak now, for the
matter of that, for I'm going, and Adam
can hear ye ; but it's me as he's got to
mind, and so I'd have him remember. Bring
him back, Adam, there's a good lad  there's

my fine son I Track him out, Adam ; don't
you let him escape you. Follow him up,
boy, as if you were a bloodhound ; stick
you to his traces. Why, you're a man at
last  a man  and yer father's son!' he
ejaculated, standing before the wretched
lad, who had shrunk into a corner bv the
door of the room, and laying a trembling
hand upon his arm. So saying. Daily staggered
back into the darkness, muttering ashe
went words of triumph and of vengeance,
and the silence of dismay fell upon
the two that he left behind him.

You see, sir, how he is,' said Adam at
last. ' It seems as if he'd got a notion that
festers in his brain. He grows into himself,
as you may say, more and more ; and no
words of mine or mother's can touch him
when he thinks that way.'

Surely this amounts to insanity,' said
George. ' Have neither sour mother nor
grandmother any fears on that score?'

I think not, sir ; it's not as if lie were
a gentleman and could afford to give his
fancies way. In our condition of life the
daily labour for the weekly wage keeps a
sober man straight. Father never touches
a drop of drink, and he works so hard to
pay his way. Even if I were to return at
the end of the time with Mr. Smith's son,
I should have no fears for him from poor
father's threats.'

So you're going,' said Adam's grandmother,
when she heard the news the next
day, ' to the other end of the earth to hunt
for your father's enemy? I'd not have
expected it from you.'

Nay, grandmother ; I'm going to bring
back Mrs. Smith's husband. She's been such
a friend to me and us all, and my only wish
is to serve her.'

By crossing the seas to give a good
woman a bad master, when ye might let
well lost alone, and yer friend might be

mistress o' Sodden Farm and as good asa
wider without the woe

But that's just the worst of it, granny :
she has the woe without being a widow.
And I'm not afraid of Mrs. Smith; if her
husband was to come back tomorrow,
she'd be just as true to us all, even if he
denied her the power to express her opinion
in deeds.'

That you know nothing about. As well
count on the way the hop-vine'll grow,
when you find it trailing, and stake it. A
woman's will is a green Avithe, but a man's
is a rope of wire. Look at yer father and
mother for that, and be advised, and stop
where ye are.'

It is impossible, granny ; I've promised.'

Yes, Adam had not been mistaken in the
confidence that Jessie would understand and
would accept his devotion. The moment
had arrived in which she had feared to find
him mistrusting the issue of any conflict

between lier principles and her affections,
and he had chosen that precise point at
which to give her this signal proof of his
confidence and trust. And so strong was
this confidence that it made him, between
whose family and that of Mr. Smith long-enmity
had reigned, expatiate himself to
further the very claims which had always
been held to be at variance with those of
his own people.

Three weeks later Adam, furnished by
George Apers with all that was necessary
for his immediate enterprise, was tossing
upon the high seas ; and three months later
he had landed in the colony. He had
not been many months in the new country
before he was as much at home in a
canvas tent upon the hillside or in the
plain as he had ever been in his father's
cottage in the English Fen-lands. Indeed,
under the conditions of his present mode
of life he was far better off for space and

air than he had ever been in his native
village.

Wandering over a beautiful country, in
the finest climate in the world, his health
speedily returned ; his long spare frame
filled out, and he looked a picture of robust
vigour. He worked harder ' than he had
ever worked in England, but the spring-tide
of full-fed energies carried him insensibly
over difficulties  smoothed before him the
roughest road, lightened the heaviest
burden, and quickly rendered him once
more indifferent to the assaults of wind
and weather. The introductions which he
had brought nth him from Mr. Smith to
various agencies in the townships speedily
convinced him that nothing was to be
hoped for from inquiries through the ordinary
channels. As soon as he entered
upon this species of investigation, it struck
him that undutiful sons and runaway
husbands must form one of the commonest

ingredients of colonial society. Later on,
when he had himself realized the difficulty
of writing home, he wondered less ; but at
first, fresh from the associations and affections
of his youth in the old country, the
missing-friend problem supplied him with
matter for surprise and for serious consideration.
But as the solution of social
questions was not to be the object of his
life in the country, but the finding of
Henry Smith, and as in a nomad existence
lay, he conceived, his best chance of
success, he almost immediately engaged
himself in the service of a surveyor, nth
whose party he would explore widely
extended ranges of back-country, and
would constantly be shifting his ground,
passing, as fast as one job was accomplished,
to another fifty or a hundred miles
off. The work of a pioneer had been
Henry Smith's own calling, and in following
him as nearly as might be in his

selection of occupation, Adam thought himself
most likely some clay to discover traces
of his actual footsteps. With sportsmen,
navvies, miners, stockmen, and explorers
did Adam enter into conversation, always
with the same end in view. The simpler
conditions of a newer civilization, untrammeled
as yet by complex distinctions
of caste, permitted ready intercourse upon
a friendly footing ; but in trader's 'villa,
shepherd's hut, or miner's shanty, Adam
was equally unsuccessful in obtaining any
tidings of the man he was in search of

Still, as month after month went by,
whenever the party with which he was
working were near any station where the
mail-man might be passing, Adam did not
fail to send home to Slumsby letters filled
with the same cheerful accounts of his
present mode of life, and breathing the
same sanguine spirit of hopefulness for the
future. These letters, eagerly welcomed

as the greatest event of life in the Daily s'
cottage, were carefully put ujDon the shelf
until Mrs. Smith passed by between the
farm and the Vicarage, and were then read
aloud by the lady, for whom, indeed, most
of their contents had been specially intended
rather than for the illiterate mother or
grandmother actually addressed. This mark
of consideration and respect shown by
Adam for the parent whom he knew to be
incapable of reading a word that he wrote,
was infinitely more pleasing to Mrs. Smith
than if he had ventured to make his efforts
in her service an excuse for sending; his
letters direct to herself. It was a little
point, perhaps ; but then it is in little
points that great souls show themselves so
great. At these readings the children
would gather round, listening open-eared to
the grandmother's shrewd comments, and
wondering at the mother's tears ; but
James Daily never was present. Having

in his youth, as has been seen, rent the
veil of ignorance which for upwards of two
hundred years had shrouded from his
ancestors the mystery of written words, it
would have seemed only natural that he
should have possessed himself of the contents
of his son's letters at once; but
although his ife always placed the tempting
letter in his way, he never cared to
touch it.

Has he found him yet ?' was the one
question invariably put, when on coming
home to supper he saw another letter on
the shelf. ' No ? then tell me when he
has, that's all.' After which Susan Daily
knew that she might add that letter to all
her other treasures in the bottom of the case
of the eight-day clock. As time went on
and the letters became more and more
difficult for her to understand, she only
grew to value them more. The very
change proved to her that she was the

mother of a clever and independent son  a
boy no longer, but a man who knew more
things, and had seen more of the world
already than his own parents, or than any
of his companions had ever done ; and yet
who did not forget the old cottage at home,
but who  making allowance for distance of
space and for lapse of time  yet contrived
to intersperse here and there words of
tender reminiscence and of faithful allusion
to the past. All this filled Susan Daily's
soul with that honest pride which is the
best reward of village mothers.

VOL. III. 52

/py

xml

- niy'  

CHAPTER Viii.

SHE WAS EIGHT.

'C'

EAR JESSIE,

Crowsby and I were married
this morning. He isn't anything
very particular, but he is quite good enough
for me, and I am now nearly rich enough for
him. I cared about him when I Alas poor,
and he loves me now that I am rich. Weare
not coming home to the Ferry for ages,
because we are going to re-build the house.
It wasn't any good telling you of this beforehand
; you would only have imagined that
I was going to run away again. Xo, my

dear Jessie, I have had my last run ;
Crowsby intends to take the next himself
as soon as he is tired of me. I wish
that I could send you and George a large
slice  not of my cake  oh no, for I
didn't have one ; but of my happiness, there
would be enough for four.'

From this letter, received about two
months after her departure from Slumsby,
Jessie learnt without surprise that Aurea
had justified her unspoken predictions, and
that this time, in spite of the absence of
the white dress, the bridal wreath, and all
the other adventitious circumstances which
had influenced her so strongly upon a
former occasion, Aurea Chapel had actually
fulfilled her eno-aoement. After the receipt
of this letter followed a long period
of silence, during which the Slumsby
villagers saw nothing of their Squire and
of his wife ; during which Mr. Apers still

522

went in and out of the Vicarage, and Mrs.
Smith still tended her father-in-law's old
age at the farm. Such pauses, pregnant
with the events which are to follow, are
common in the experience of all. But for
George and for Jessie alike one name only
seemed to promise the breaking of the
silence which held them like a spell : for
George that name was Aurea's ; for Jessie,
Adam's. When Lady "Weyland came home
to the Ferry, then the tenour of his days
would be decided ; when Adam Daily came
back from Australia, then she should know
her fate. Meanwhile both waited, and the
end came to both simultaneously, without
previous show of change.

One dewy summer morning Grandmother
Daily's floor was darkened by a shadow
which fell across her feet, whilst a clear
ringing voice, without more ado of
greeting, sent these words in at the open
door :

Well, Mrs. Daily, have you got an
errand for me to ran ?'

'Ah, Lady Weyland, Lady Weyland!
and is it true you've really come down
to the Ferry ? AVhen I heard it I set the
door back on its hinges, just as I do when
the sun's shining in ; and now you've broken
upon me through the mist, for all the world
as welcome.'

I hope you've had your money every
week, Mrs. Daily; with my shade of hair,
you know, folks never have a memory !'

Yours is too good a one, my lady,' said
the old woman, chuckling; and Susan Daily,
who happened to be present, stepped forward
to explain :

Not in service, mother meant ; in other
walks of life of course 'tis different'

Well, have you had it, any way ?'

Always ; as regular as the week begins ;
every Monday since you've been away, and
missed you every one.'

That is more, I hope, than anyone else has
done,' returned Aurea. ' Well, Mrs. James
Daily, is that your youngest child ? Dear
me, it's very much handsomer than mine !'

Is it really, now ?' said Susan, gratified.

Why, yes, to be sure it is. Mine are
the ugliest little things 3'ou ever saw.
They've both got red hair  grizzly red
curls, not bright like their mother's  and
they screw up their funny little noses and
take a comic view of every situation. iN'ow
that is a sensible, solid creature, with
thoroughly satisfactory feelings, and no
nonsense about her ; the sort of child that
sits very light upon her mother's heart,
but very heavy on her arm. Why, I
can tell without touching her that she's
twice the weight of mine. I'll send them
both down to see you soon ; but don't be
surprised if they look at you entirely in
the light of a joke. They'll probably laugh
in your faces.'

I wouldn't trouble myself about their
manners, ma'am,' observed Susan, ' if I was
you ; they'll outgrow them fast enough.'

Heaven forbid !' said Aurea aside.

Why, my !Mary was always laughing till
she turned of five years, and she has
never laughed since.'

Why don't you tickle her ?' said Aurea
seriously. ' There's notliino like tickling
and sugar-plums for bringing up children
upon.'

'Well, really now!' said Susan Daily;
 I have brought up thirteen, but I never
heard of such a thing before ] whilst
Grandmother Daily suggested that this
state of things resulted from 'their mother's
shade of hair, which did you good to look
at, and cheered you up like sunshine in
summer.'

'Where's Mrs. Apers Smith now?' Aurea
asked. ' What, still at the farm ?'

Yes ; they say the old gentleman clings

to her so that she wouldn't leave him
even to go with her brother for a holiday:
so he has gone off alone. It's the first
time since you were here, ma'am, that Mr.
Alders has taken a change.'

Aurea knew that ; indeed, this was why
she had selected this particular time for
coming.

Alas there no chance of Mr. Smith dying,
and leaving his daughter-in-law free ?'

None, by what the women had heard.
It was true that he had not been down
to the bottom of the Fifty-acre for the last
three years. Indeed, he never stirred from
his room, and Grandmother Daily understood
that any shock might be fatal ; but
under Mrs. Smith's care he seemed likely
to last for years.

'Well, I must send my little monkeys
to see him: the sight of them will shock
him enough, I should say. It would me,
I know, three years ago.'

Dear me!' said Susan Daily, as the lady-left.
'What a pity, now, a mother not
fancying her own children !'

Lor, Susan,' said the grandmother,  you
don't know my lady. Why, that's all her
way. Those children will be a couple of
sunbeams. Now you see if they ain't. She
cheapens them out of vanity. You can see
what a lot she thinks of them by the deal
she says.'

Whereon Susan Daily said no more,
having a great veneration for her husband's
mother's wisdom, wherein she speedily got
out of her depth.

This, the first visit which Sir Crowsby
and Aurea had together paid to the village
since their marriage, had for its object the
direction of the rebuilding of the ancient
Manor House, now nearly completed.
During the progress of reconstruction, Sir
Crowsby had indeed paid flying visits sto
the place \ but Aurea herself had never

appeared, and the rest of the family could
not have been accommodated. Now, as
they sauntered round on a complacent tour
of inspection, Sir Crowsby casually remarked
:

 But, I say, you know, you did say,
Aurea, that the days might build in my
old roofs noah. You told me so yourself

Of course I did,' said the lady ; ' and I
meant it too, until I found that I preferred
you to the days. But let us decide upon
these plans quickly, and then have done
with the subject. I want to get down to
the farm to see Jessie.'

I thought you had been there already.'

On the contrary, I stopped at Grandmother
Daily's cottage. Where's her unpleasant
son now? Is he working here
still?'

Certainly, my lady,' returned her husband,
smiling. ' Your wishes on that point
have been observed. Mr. James Daily has

had three years' constant employment and
tln*ee years' excellent pay  so the foreman
assures me \ and his appearance is all the
worse, I should say ; and as for his manners,
why, judge for yourself There he stands,
and he'll not lift his hat if I hft mine to him
as he sees us go by.'

Sir Crowsby's observation was correct.
The amelioration in his outer circumstances
had produced no corresponding amelioration
in James Daily's moral condition. Nay,
this misanthropy seemed to increase as the
grinding pressure of utter poverty was
removed. Bob had long; ao-o succeeded to
Adam's jDlace at the Yicarage; Xoah had
gone to the factory, where the prestige of
Adam's name and the tradition of Adam's
prowess proved his best protection ; the
grandmother had taken two of the little
ones under her wing. There was altogether
more money coming in, and more space to
live in, in the tiler's cottage, than had ever

been the case before; but, without the
necessity for anxiously seeking the work
which alone preserved him from utter
penury, the unfortunate man's thoughts
were left the freer to fasten themselves
continually upon his wrongs and his
revenge. Deeper and deeper fell the night
of gloom which shrouded the man's disappointed
spirit. As year by year went by,
bringing no prospect of change at the farm,
no tidings of Henry Smith from Australia,
the tiler sank lower and lower into depths
of morbid melancholy. Savagely brooding
over his hopes defeated and his revenge
deferred, his mood came to be recognised by
the neighbours as one that was dangerous.
He was looked upon as a man whose path it
was not safe to cross. At his work he was
shunned by his mates as a ' nasty chap to
have dealings with ;' and that James Daily's
mood meant mischief to himself or others
grew into a common foreboding. Within

the walls of his own cottage his entrance
was a signal for the immediate dispersal of
the children, whilst by the timid service of
hand and e3'e their mother strove to propitiate
the savage harshness of her master.
Neither wife nor children dared to address
him now, save in pursuance of any order
given by him; and even the grandmother
ceased to adopt the tone of outspoken
authority by which she had influenced
him for so many years. All quailed
before him ; and when the women and
children who belong to a man learn to
cringe around him, the fellow speedily
becomes a tyrant and a brute.

Not even at the farm, where the patient
noble-hearted wife and weary old father
waited with the sickening hope of years
deferred, would any stranger, looking on,
have said that tidings of the missing heir to
Sodden Farm were as eagerly desired as in
the thatcher's cottage.

Sitting: over his supper, James Daily's
eyes passed from the travel-stained envelope
over the fireplace, which told that his son
had written again, to his wife's anxious
face, with looks which seemed to tear, with
savage, famished hung-er, the news that he
sought to learn from her trembling lips.
Xo, no news.' Always the same answer.
Then his head, which had been raised for
an instant, sank once more in sullen apathy
upon his breast ; his whole appearance once
more evidenced the surly indifference fi'om
which the sight of a letter from Adam alone
momentarily roused him.

Xo news '  always the same message for
the cottage and for the farm, where alike it
brought the bitterness of disappointment
for such strangely different reasons. ' Xo
news ' for the worn-out and despairing
father! Mr. Smith was old, and despair
came to him more readily than to his
courageous daughter-in-law, who was young

in all save in the depth and range of feeling
which the years had taught her. She had
yet a lifetime before her, which she might
still hope to devote to the son when her
work for the father was accomplished ; but
ideas which form the mainsprings of existence
are surrendered one by one as age
creeps on. Hopes which, while a man is
young, display a marvellous vitality, penetrating;
like lio;ht and air through all the
fast closed Windows of the soul, perish at
length with roots that bleed in every
quivering fibre of the heart. The one
consolation which remained to Mr. Smith
lay in the society of his daughter-in-law.
His notion of the robust and stirring
woman, pictured in his days of health and
strength as the ideal daughter - in - law,
vanished with his active merest in the
management of farm or dairy. He now
held and openly expressed the opinion
which many a man has shared when

falling a victim to any of the evil chances
of life, that a woman cannot be too much a
lady to be a nurse.

It is not to be supposed that, in the close
intimacy of the long days thus spent
together, Jessie concealed from her father-in-law
her views concerning the property of
the Fen. Her least action had come to
have a rightness in the old man's eyes
which secured his indiscriminate approbation
; and that she should do what she
willed with him and his was the most
earnest desire he frequently expressed.

In his gratitude for the love which
soothed the suffering of his declining years,
Mr. Smith was at special pains to provide
against the invitation, by any technical
flaw, of the will which secured her in full
possession of his estate, on the death or
failure to reappear of her husband. Many
times he laid this document before her,
fully explaining its provisions and the

absolute powers with which it invested her;
and she as often insisted to him that she
accepted the trust solely with a view to
restoring the land to the people of Slumsby
in whatever manner reason and prudence
might best dictate when the time should
come, since she held their claims to have
been secured by Diggory Daily's original
grant. Mr. Smith heard her attentively,
whilst declining the subject as a matter for
discussion, adhering none the less to his
intentions as expressed by the will. She
should do what she thought right with the
land; he did not share her convictions, but
it would no longer concern him. The one
great failure of his life left no room for the
bitterness of personal disappointment. He
had too well known the torment of a conscience
ill at ease, to seek to impose upon
another, in token of gratitude, a trust
fettered with restrictions which would destroy
her peace. He loved her, he desired
VOL. III. 53

to do that which would make her most
happy in mind and freest in conscience.
She who had done so much for him, and
had suffered so long for his son, should
suffer no more from any action of his. If
within a given time Henry Smith did not
appear, or if his death were proved in the
meanwhile, Jessie should do what she
liked with the eight hundred acres of Sodden
Fen. The house and garden and all his
funded savings he especially reserved for
her omni use.

It was singularly well timed, that on the
day which Jessie had been dreading when
she must communicate to her brother, upon
his return from his holiday, the fact of the
Wayland' arrival at the Ferry, George
should reappear at the farm, with a
countenance more radiant than in days of
old, to forestall his sister's information by
the news that  that other ' had been found
during his absence, and that just as Jessie

had once predicted, there was now no other
in the world for him. Aurea had divined
rightly in supposing that she had given
her former lover time to get over all but
the sentimental portion of his former disappointment.
This time, looking at the
lines in his face drawn by that sorrow, but
relaxed by this joy, Jessie did not tell her
brother that this choice would be no different
from any other, only that he would think
it so. ' She ' was, it appeared, a bishop's
daughter : Jessie learnt that he had met her
in his mother's drawing-room, that her hair
was not of burnished gold, and that he
meant to bring her home very shortly to
the Vicarage; and then she told him of the
Wayland' reappearance at the Ferry. He
would go and call that very afternoon. He
did so, and he spent a charming hour.
Aurea thoroughly understood her former
lover, and divined the state of things at a
glance. Could it be possible, George asked

532

himself, feeling so thoroughly at home with
this lively lady who chattered with such
unforced vivacity whilst showing him the
improvements in the house and grounds,
that he and she had not met since their
litter parting  that parting when they
had both separated in tears, after having
perused together a chapter, nay, a volume,
beside which the story of the bishop's
daughter, in other ears, might sound a trifle
tame ! Where so little appeared, could so
much have been ? George looked at her
and marvelled. Ah, she was very wise:
gay little chatterton as she seemed. She had
capacities ignored by many a cleverer
woman. George now began to wonder
somewhat at his former blindness, to realize
that he had never really understood her
before ; nevertheless to be a little thankful,
after a sober fashion, for the denial which
had procured him his present satisfaction.
Thus do men grow more often unfaithful to

their earlier selves than to their earlier
friends. And Aurea saw it all, read it in
his eyes, as women read  whilst handing
them a cup of tea  the things men think so
safely hidden there.

As a result, she was brimming over with
secret, mirthful laughter. The day had
come, as she had prophesied, when he
would know that she was right. Ah, it had
come years ago for her, and she had never
had cause to doubt it since. She was so
happy herself, that before he left her the
contagion of her sympathetic joy had
reached, him, sweeping away the slender
barrier of reserve which circumstances had
interposed between them, and, like the kindhearted
little matron that she was, ere he
departed she had drawn from him the
whole history of the bishop's daughter.
There was not much to tell, it was true, but
her unaffected interest made it more. This
was the happiest day of his life to George.

As he looked at it, here was a downright,
conscious piece of good grown out of evil,
of joy bought by pain, in place of the unknown
and therefore unvalued happiness,
which, taken as a natural right, brings no
gratitude, and is heightened by no sense
of contrast. He was scarcely aware, perhaps,
how much he owed this vivid heightening
of sensation to Aurea Weyland's quickening
influence. She had removed the story
of his later love from the region of dull
prose, by one touch of her poetic instinct.
Something that had been lacking hitherto,
her interest had supplied; and George began
to think that with Aurea for a friend, and
the bishop's daughter for a wife, life would
be a more perfect thing than he had
hitherto held it possible.

Aurea Weyland was an artist's daughter,
and hers too was an artist's soul, finding
its expression in its own life  there and
there only. Life to be fully lived, whether in

joy or woe, must be thus doubly tasted.
In order to have truly lived or truly loved,
it is necessary not merely to be a sentient
being, but also to possess that rarer faculty
of dramatizing the life that is lived, and the
love that is given or inspired. A man
must know how to be at will spectator
and actor in the part that he plays, if he
would rise to the dignity possible in the
conception of this part. With this power,
the commonest part may be made instinct
with keenest sensation, and replete with
emotional experience ; without it, no mannor
woman yet ever got as much out of
life as an old wife's tale could put into it.

A NIGHT WATCH.

Mother, you must tell lily, I
f M cannot and I dare notes
== Susan Daily spoke, wringing
her toil-worn hands fresh from the washtub.
The tones were those of helpless
entreaty.

He'll be here directly,' she said, looking
out of the door, and observing that the
shadows were falling on the village roadway,
whilst far away across the Fen Mr. Smith's
horses and cattle had become dim outlines,
scarcely discernible beside the thin thread

of mist that marked the course of the river.
He'll be in directly for his supper, and I
know no more how to meet him than I
knew how to meet poor old father the
first time that Daily entered our cottage.
Father turned me out in the lane because I'
took up with James, and Daily's as likely as
not to do the same one of these days, and I
shall end no better than I began. You
must tell him, granny, for he'll see it in my
face the moment he crosses the floor,' she
cried, rocking herself backwards and forwards
in the chair wherein she had soothed
so many wailing infants. ' And I thought
so much of him when I was young,' she
went on ; ' but there, a woman never knows
when she marries how it'll be in the end,
any more than when she buy a clock she
can reckon how it'll go.'

My son is no drunkard,' said Grandmother
Daily. ' And if you're too timid to
touch your clock to set it right when it

goes wrong, how can you ask it to tell you
the time?'

" Timid," yes ; and you d be timid if,
instead of two-ands twenty years o' widowhood
in the House, you'd been two-and-twenty
years the wife o' such a hard man as
your own son. " Timid," yes ; and well I
may be. Where have I got to turn to?
Who is there to take my part when his
own mother sides against me ?'

And would you have them take it, then,
to whet their tongues on him?' asked the
old woman shortly.

Nay ; but I wish he'd kick me for a
change. It wouldn't hurt so much by half.
I don't pity them as carries their wounds
on the outside.'

And what's to prove to you as their
bruises are only skin-deep ? " Because
you ain't a frog, has frogs not got their
feelings?" as I say to the children when
they string 'em up in rows. You mayas

well dry your eyes, Susan, and makeup
your mind once for all as sorrow's
like the workhouse broth, served out to all
alike, in bowls o' different patterns. Come,
now, pull herself together. Here he
comes.'

Susan dried her eyes in her apron, and
hastening to the cupboard, fetched out
thence a loaf and a big lump of bacon,
which James Daily attacked in moody
silence, without raising his head or speaking
to either of the women. Presently, however,
his attention was aroused by the
unusual presence and manner of his old
mother. At that hour she commonly went
to her bed in her own cottage : but on this
occasion she deliberately seated herself in
his wife's chair by the fire, spreading her
hands to the blaze. Involuntarily his eyes
sought the clue to her conduct on the
mantelpiece over her head. No ; there was
no letter there.

But there's news, man,' she said, answering
his unexpressed thought.

Where ?' he gasped, with intense excitement,
painfully suppressed.

At the farm

'What?' he cried, laying down his knife
and rising to his feet. The old woman did
likewise, and stood confronting him. Susan
Daily instinctively made for the back-door,
then clung for support to the bed's head.
Naturally, the man turned upon his wife.

Can't you speak, woman ?  did I marry
a simpleton? I ask you, what's the news?'

James,' said the old woman, ' listen tome
; and remember I dandled you once in
my arms, and held you the first time yer
feet touched the floor. You were always
a masterful child, but I did my duty in
bending' your will, and would have broken
it too, if only that poor body  your father
had been half the man that I was a
woman. Your neighbours may fear you,

and your wife may shake ; but I've yet to
learn to tremble to speak to the child that I
nursed on my knee. Xow, attend ! your
son Adam's come home.'

Beneath the determined gaze of the old
woman's black eyes, the man stood sullenly
silent, like a chidden but unconquered child
who, subdued for the moment, doggedly
awaits the next opportunity to reassert its
will.

When ?' was the only question that he
asked in reply to the expected statement.

Two hours ago.'

Every impatient feature of the man's
agitated countenance was working now
with unaccustomed excitement ; the next
question was gasped out, rather than
articulated.

Alone ? has he come alone ?'

No.'

Then let me go ! my day has come at
last. Stand out o' my way, woman!

Mother or wife shall not hinder me now ;
mother or wife, I'll dash you to the ground
if you come between me and my enemy!
My revenge has come at last. I've waited
for it a lifetime ; a lifetime that the Lord
men swear by knows. The life of a dog 
the life of a slave !'

His voice sounded in tones of fury
through the cottage. The scared children,
afraid to enter, peeped in at the back
window. Their mother sank upon her
knees, crouching in the corner by the bed ;
but Grandmother Daily had that sort of
force which is sure to rise at demand. Her
son's temperament was in fact her own ;
but the sound ' stuff of which nature had
made her, had in the transmission been
poisoned by some unwholesome leaven.
Without a symptom of fear, she deliberately
placed her back to the door.

For shame, James Daily, to forget
yourself that way ! Take yer own evil

course if you will, over yer old mother's
body, and be the brute that ye sound ; but
yell not meet the man that ye're burning
to fight with, for he's in the grip of a
stronger foe that'll not let go his hold for
prince nor thatcher, lord nor lady, sow,
go ; force your ways into the farm and
assault Henry Smith if you dare. It'll
be a worthy thing to do, to fight a dying
man, to clutch him by the throat with
the death-rattle already sounding in yer
ears !'

She stood aside, holding wide the opened
door ; 'the evening breeze rustled in,
striking deadly cold upon the man's damp
forehead. He fell back aghast. His face
grew ashy-pale.

'Isn't true,' he groaned.

It's as true as I stand here, and your
poor wife kneels there where fear of you
has crushed her.'

 Where's my son ? where's Adam ?' he

asked, making no further attempt to leave
the house.

My grandson said the old woman
proudly, ' is where his duty keeps him  by
the side o' the dying imbecile that he's
brought home, and that none but he can
manage. He looked in half an hour ago
to kiss his mother there, and to desire his
duty to you, which if he seemed to fail in
he said it grieved him much ; but he
before you to believe that his heart was
true to do the best he knew.'

The colour returned to the thatcher's
face ; fierce light shone in his angry eyes.

Coward, sneak, traitor ! down at the
farm, debasing himself and dishonouring
his name by becoming the contemptible
body servant of the vile son of a thief !'

Daily !' cried Susan, pulling herself up
from her despairing position on the floor,
approaching her husband with hands
outstretched, 'your own son, and such a

fine young man ; the best and bravest that
ever man or woman had ! You'd scarcely
know him again ; but any father might be
proud to own him  so tall and straight and
strong, filled out and groT\Ti quite beautiful
to see : stoops his head as he enters the
door, and then throws it back again and
looks you full in the face, with a smile
which would go to your heart if you'd only
give it a chance. Why, Bob's a good-looking
fellow enough, and works as steady
as you do ; and Noah's a kind-hearted lad
that's never done nothing amiss, and keeps
himself wonderful clean for his trade. But
Adam, father, you give him a chance. Just
wait till you've seen him, that's all. Why,
mother there can bear witness if any lord
in the land has a finer nature than him,
nor carries it writ on a handsomer face.'

Oh, anything that looks good, from an
apple to a man, \\\. fetch a woman.
That's the only truth I ever learnt fiom a

VOL. III. 54

parson. But deeds are what I demand ;
and why didn't lie write and say he was

coming

r

Because lie couldn't retorted Grandmother
Daily  * because he found that poor
witless creature with hardly a breath left in
his body to last him to cross the seas ; and
he brought him off there and then, and
only sent word to the wife when he'd got
him alive on English ground. They got
the letter last night at the farm, and she
sent round to acquaint us this morning.'

Then you've known it all day ! You
deceived me.'

And you ought to be ashamed to accuse
your mother of such a thing, when I'm
here now on purpose to tell you, shaking
in the draught of the door when I might
have been snugly tucked up in my bed,
with the tea that I saved from my supper
and poured into a bottle, warming my feet,
all ready to drink in the night. And

hasn't your poor wife been sang it as fast
as you let her ? And if you'd come home
in your dinner hour you might ha' known
it almost as soon as we did ourselves.'

It was not cold that Grandmother Daily
was suffering from, but the effect of the
scene she had just gone through on her
nerves. But the true cause being too
complex for her apprehension, she wrongly
accounted for her discomfort.

For the moment there seemed to be no
further reason for active alarm. The fierce
heat of the passion which burnt in the
man's bosom had expended itself for the
time. James Daily walked towards the
door ; there he paused and spoke ;

If that man, Henry Smith, gets upon
his legs again, you'll give my son Adam my
positive orders to bring him to me at the
gate of the farm. I'll not set foot on the
Fen till Daily's the name that is known as
the master's. I've sworn that. But you'll

542

tell my son Adam  you, wife, and you,
mother  that if he fails me in this, he
shall have my malediction. I'll curse him
worse than I'll curse the son of a thief he
has chosen to serve.'

The man that you name. James Daily,
will not pass the night,' said the grandmother,
with scorn. ' Your curses may
ruin your own soul, but they'll not injure
your innocent son by so much as a hair of
his head.'

Whether James Daily heard the last
remark or not was doubtful, for he had
already left the cottage and had closed the
door.

Don't leave me, mother. You mustn't
go home,' Susan Daily entreated. ' I shall
die of terror if I'm left alone, and there are
all the children outside that must come in
now to their beds. You can get in alongside
o' me. He'll not come in before daylight
when he goes off like that.'

 Dear me, Susan, what an affliction it is
for a woman to have so poor a spirit ! I
feel a trifle cold myself, but not to say
a bit the worse. Where will he be
now?'

On the roof in an hour's time, keeping
watch till dawn. It's a mercy that he'll
step no nearer the farm. Astride his own
thatch, he can't do no one no harm. They
sajT- " dreams are fool's warnings," and my
poor head is likely to make 'em silver than
most; but I had a dream, three days gone
by, that a stranger stepped up the garden-path
and plucked a rose from the tree that
our Adam planted. But when I felt vexed
at his taking the liberty, and went out in
the porch, there I saw it was Adam himself,
smiling, just as he met us to-day ; and
he says, " Mother, the rose-tree will bloom
till it's washed with water from Diggory's
Dyke, and then it will droop and die." '

Dreams are foolish talking, and there

ain't no meaning in tliem/ said the grandmother
; ' though, to be sure, there was an
old lady in the House as knew more when
her eyes was shut than others did when
they was awake. But it's a sign of a poor
\i, Them as is so wise when they are
asleep are always the foolishness when they
are awake,'

Well, to my thinking,' said Susan Daily,
it might ha' meant that the land and
water of Sodden Fen would bring mischief
to us.'

Susan Daily was right about her husband
spending the greater part of the night
upon the thatch. She was not right about
his cominfif in before dawn. For the first
time in his life, James Daily sjDent the whole
niofht abroad  now turnings and returning
in the lane before the house, now mounting
his post of observation, where, like a sentry
upon his self-imposed duty, he could survey
the whole of the land, greed for the possession

of which was festering like a sore in his
soul. To-night there was more to excite
attention than usual in the aspect of the
farm. At ten o'clock the doctor's carriage
drove by from Cutthorpe, following the
village doctor's gig. Lights shone in the
upper windows, where ordinarily all was
dark; and as the cottage was but just outside
the gates of the farm, Daily could even
discern the shadows of the watchers within
the sick man's chamber passing before the
unsheltered windows.

Presently the front-door opened, and a
tall man issued forth, unfastened the gate,
and passed with hurried footsteps into the
lane. Instinctively the wretched father
drew himself back into the shadow of the
chimney against Which he leant, recognising
instantly, in the powerful stalwart frame,
the son with whom he had parted as a lad
three or four years ago. With his long
stride Adam quickly passed the cottage-gate.

It was on that very gate that he had
flung himself when, in his first impulsive
assertion of boyish loyalty, he had protected
his friend Mrs. Smith from his father's
anger.

The remembrance swept over him now
as he hurried by on his way to the Vicarage
to summon Mr. Apers to his sister's assistance
; but full of this sad errand, and of the
troublous scenes through which he was
actually passing, his gaze had not sufficient
concentration to allow of his perceiving his
father in his eccentric position. To that
father the same memory, dictated by the
same association, suggested a very different
line of reflection.

What chance should I have now, bent
down and aged before my time with my work
and my wrongs, in any struggle with that
powerful young man ? Why, even as a lad
he set himself against me and sided with my
foes.'

By the time that Adam returned, accompanied
by George Aoers, the wretched onlooker
had descended into the shadow of
the porch, not caring to risk the double
chances of detection ; but as soon as the two
were safely out of sight, he climbed again to
his post of observation, and there remained
nth brief intervals until the reddening of
the eastern sky warned him that the light
of a new day was breaking over the earth.
But the only sign of a stir at the farm was
the departure of the Cutthorpe physician,
whom Daily once more descended to avoid.
The blinds were not drawn up in the chambers,
the shutters were not removed from
the lower windows, nor were there any of
the usual evidences of awakening' life on the
premises. It might be merely accidental, or
it might be that the struggle was over, and
that once more, and this time for ever, the
master of Sodden Farm had lost his only
son.

James Daily dared not wait to learn.
His mates would be coming along on their
way to their work ; the village was getting
up already. For the last time he flung
himself down from the thatch, and, entering
the cottage, hao-oard and worn with his
night's vigil, ordered the women to get him
his breakfast, ate it in unbroken silence,
picked up his tools, and went ofi* to his
work.

James Daily was still engaged upon
some outbuildings down at the Deity. The
men who were employed with him were
already on the ground, but they were not at
work. Gathered in groups around one
speaker, some subject of unusual interest
appeared to be holding their attention. On
Daily's appearance they fell apart and eyed
him and each other significantly. After
his own sullen fashion, he took no heed of
them, laid aside his coat and prepared to
begin his job -, but he felt irritated by

some strange meaning: in their behaviour,
none the less.

Tell him,' said one, to the man who had
been engrossing; the attention of the rest
when the thatcher arrived.

Not I,' replied he; ' I'd as soon tell the
carrion crows where the corpses lie.'

But one of the younger fellows who was
present called out in derision, at the tiler's
haooard face :

Shall we see you first mourner, Mr.
Daily, with a crape scarf and hatband,
black kid gloves and inky tie?'

He is dead then,' gasped Daily, dropping
his tools.

'Have not you heard?' said a grey-haired
man.

Those that say nothing, hear nothing
put in a younger fellow.

Then  ' Don't tell him all at once ;'
 Break it to him gently ;' ' He is such a
friend of the family, the shock will be too

much for him ;' ' Lend him your handkerchiefs
;' ' Fetch a drink of water,'
resounded on all sides. But the mason
who had first likened Daily to a carrion
crow, stepping forth, imposed silence upon
the group.

Be silent, you young fools of fellows,
with your ill-timed jokes, like pebbles
rattling on a jane. James Daily, Farmer
Smith's gone, and so is his son Henry. Both
of them lying side by side, at last, as he'd
have had it. My brother, that's waggoner
down at the farm, brought the news at
break of day. Farmer Smith was a goodman
and a good master, and there's more
will have reason to grieve for his loss than
will ever find cause to say " Thank you " to
you. It'll be a comfort to his mother that,
by what 1 can hear, your son Adam has
come home from the West a better-disposed
man than his father towards them as have
never done him no harm.'

James Daily made no direct reply to these
unfriendly observations.

Both he murmured several times to
himself, as though he were dreaming. Then
abandoning his work, he collected his tools,
and, without a word of explanation or
excuse, turned back towards his own
cottage. Such a thing he had never been
known to do before in all the years of his
hard-working; life. His retreat; form was
followed by the jeers of all the younger
men and by the unsympathetic silence of
the elder.

Both,' he audibly repeated, all the way
home, as though he needed the sound of
the word to convey the sense to his stunned
apprehension.

Daily's unprecedented reappearance at
his cottage at such an unusual hour produced
both consternation and surprise. He
found there not only his mother and ife,
but also his son Adam. His entrance was

the signal for a sudden silence; then Adam,
eagerly stepping forward, offered his hand
with a gesture of open-hearted, affectionate
welcome. His father refused to take it.

Tell me first,' he cried, in a voice broken
by passion, ' if it is the hand of a turn-coat
and a traitor, of a traitor to our name
and our cause, the cause that has been our
family's for upwards of two hundred years.
Rioht is rioiit, and I'll not touch the hand
that has smoothed our enemy's pillow and
closed our enemy's eyes, even though Henry
Smith's servant may be the man that once
Alas my son.'

Speak to him, Adam. Tell him what
you were telling to us,' his mother
pleaded.

She felt braver now that she was
supported by the presence of such a goodly
son. Adam, shocked at his father's bitter
words and at the change in his mother's
appearance, hesitated how to answer.

How can I tell the tale of sorrow I
was telling you, mother, to be heard without
pity and without remorse ! it is too sacred
and too sad a thing.'

Nay, but try him, Adam,' insisted the
grandmother, shrewdly observant of the
marked effect of the son's voice and manner
upon the miserable father. ' Speak on ;
death heals many a breach, and wipes out
many a score. Once coffined, our worst
enemies lie with our dead past.'

Then Adam resumed, in a tone and
manner like, and yet so unlike, that which
had been his when he went away, in its full
expression of power and experience.

Will you hear the story, father ? I was
telling it when you came in ; but you must
respect the names of the dead and the grief
of the living, or I shall cease to speak.'

Daily acquiesced by a sullen gesture in
the necessary self-control. There was a
well-balanced self-reliant force about this

unknown son of his wliicli influenced him
unconsciously. The same force and the same
power indeed, by its rare combination of a
tender sympathy for the weak with a resolute
determination to exact from himself
and to encourage in others the highest
standard of conduct possible to each, had
galvanized into temporary action the broken
springs of energy in poor Henry Smith.
Wrecked in mind and worn out in body,
the unhappy man had clung to this brave
true nature as to his last chance of safety ;
and so now the thatcher, after his first
miserable outburst, sat down quietly,
fascinated by the glance with which Adam
sought to learn whether self-mastery were
yet possible to his father, and, if it were so,
to impress upon him the necessity of its
present exercise. Under the influence of
that look, James Daily's tortured spirit
subsided into greater quietude than it had
known for years. Something very like

peace stole unawares into the sick heart of
the man as he Hastened to the sound, scarcely
comprehending the sense, conveyed to his
ears by the modulated intonations of that
sympathetic voice. If the countenance is
the index of the mind, no less is the voice
the index of the soul; and Adam had that
rare gift, commonly undeveloped in men of
his class, a voice which worthily expressed
the emotions of a noble nature.

Briefly passing over his own share in
the matter for his own sake and for his
father's, Adam told, in pathetically simple
language, how Henry Smith was half unconscious
and almost dying when he found
him at length, after long years of fruitless
search, so that there was barely hope that
he would live to reach his native land ;
how, taking advantage of the next mail
steamer, they had reached the farm buta
few hours later than the letter which
he had sent announcing their coming.

VOL. III. 55

This letter had agitated Mr. Smith to such

o

a degree that his daughter had feared that
it might be followed by immediate fatal
consequences. But Mr. Smith could not
die until he knew whether the steamer had
brought him back a still living son, or
only the tidings of a funeral at sea. The
thought of seeing his son kept the poor
old father alive another night and day,
and gave him strength, when the dying
man was being carried up the stairs at
the farmhouse, to put forth a feeble hand
to direct the bearers who, headed by
Adam Daily himself, bore the helpless
load. Beside it walked the yet sadder
wife, laying a gentle hand beneath the
head whose thin grey hairs contrasted
painfully with the crisp dark masses
wherein her lingers had so often strayed
in bygone years. It was nine years only
since they had parted  nine years out of
the fullest period of his life  and yet the

man had come back to lier such a wreck
as this. Obscure impulses, the result of
which he was unable to foresee, and the
force of which he grew powerless to control,
made him throw up place after place, until
he sank at length into the state of physical
incapacity and of abject penury wherein
Adam had at length found him ; from
which all efforts had been powerless ultimately
to arouse him. When they laid
him upon his father's bed in the once
familiar room, he recognised neither faces
nor forms around him : responsive in any
degree, seemingly, only to Adam's voice,
as to the one that had controlled the last
efforts of his expiring vitality. For Adam
to have left him then would have been to
have doomed him to immediate extinction.
The only hope of any comforting sign of
recognition for father or wife lay in the
ease which might be secured to his last
moments by the presence of the man to

00  1

whose care lie had grown used, and whose
influence over him was markedly beneficial.


There was nothing further to be done or
hoped for; medical aid was of no avail.
His ife sat beside him on the bed ; his
whither knelt upon the floor with his face
buried in the same pillow. Adam supported
him in his arms through the hours
of that terrible night which James Daily
counted, as one who counts the death-throbs
of pulsation, from his dismal post
of observation under the darkened sky ;
but just as the first streak of gold, which
the unsuspected watcher had noticed, illumined
the eastern horizon, the dying man
had opened his eyes with the first faint
gleam of intelligence in their gaze. The
rooms and walls and hanofino-s in that
old-fashioned house were all unchanged
since Henry Smith had left it twenty-seven
years before ; each surrounding object was

an aid to the struggling memory; a look
of questioning wonder stole over the wasted
features, then doubt, then surprise, then
joy dashed with fear, as the light of certainty
rose like the sun upon his countenance.
Father, wife, and friend watched
the conflict in speechless suspense. As
yet his uncertain gaze had not rested upon
Jessie, and she drew herself slightly back,
fearful lest too early an appeal to memory
might snap the slender thread of continuity
by which his reawakening consciousness
was held. His thoughts had clearly travelled
no farther than the associations of
that room suggested ; and the patient wife
must wait a few moments longer  moments
longer than whole years. He must be a
boy at home again in his father's house
before he could be grown man, lover or
husband to her, or the father of her child.
But would the expiring flame of life
endure till its departing glow rested upon

lier face ? Would not the hand of Death
quench it first, restoring to Mr. Smith a
son, but leaving her without a husband ?
As yet, the dying man had not spoken ;
but the whole reawakening of memory
and readjustment of association might be
read in this face, and was so read with
painfully responsive eagerness by the
kneeling father. As yet, their eyes had
not met ; but now, yearning for the
moment of recognition which he saw had
come, ]mr. Smith could wait no looser 
could no longer defer the supreme instant.
Bending over his dying son,
holding him eye to eye by the magic of
the paternal voice, the old man cried
to the wavering consciousness in the once
familiar tones, so well-known, yet so long-forgotten
:

Henrys ! Henry ! my son !'

The prostrate figure raised itself without
the support of Adam's arms. That voice,

that face, that venerable head, far less
changed than his own, he knew it all
now; yes, but knew no further than the
terrible event which had been the point
of departure for his youth. Annihilated
by that remembrance, memory travelled
no farther. A horror of great darkness
quenched the light that had momentarily
lit up his features. The wild eyes fixed
with a look of agonized despair upon the
old man's face, but sought for no other
once-loved features, then closed, whilst
the bitter cry, * Father ! the gun, the gun !'
rang in the ears of the heart-broken woman,
telling her how far his memory had travelled
over that past life of his, and also where it
had stopped.

Adam laid a hand upon his heart, but
Henry Smith was gone  a repentant and
forgiven son in the embrace of a recovered
father ; but for the forsaken wife there was
no word, no sign. For her, he still had

died on the morning that he left her in ill-judged
despair, in the full flush of manly
strength and pride. For her, her actual
widowhood must be counted still fi'om
the day that he forsook her many years
before; softened and sanctified only by
loving realization on her part, and by the
possession of a grave over which to weep
tears that the commonest mio;ht share and
understand. She found comfort, too, in
recognising in the particular form of brain
disease of which he died, the indisputably
predisposing cause of those moral aberrations
which had been little less than the
ruin of his father's life and hers.

In the faithful love of such a woman
lay the truest vindication of poor Henry
Smith's sad memory; the enduring proof
of that which at his best he once had
been, and having been misht be ao-ain,
if cast \x\) by the waves of the dark
sea of death, washed and refreshed, he

were permitted new chances in another
world.

At his son's expiring cry of recognition
Mr. Smith had fallen forward on the bed,
his lips touching the lips of his son, in one
sublime effort of reconciliation ; and so
death had found and united them both in
one last loving kiss. For a time all
respected his supposed grief, no one laid a
hand upon the venerable form ; but as
moment after moment passed and still the
father lay silent and motionless as the son,
Jessie gently spoke to him. He had no
voice with which to answer her. His last
words had been given to his long-lost son,
with whom he was now united in death.
After the bitter separation and the errors
of a lifetime, mr. Smith was spared the
pain of any other parting. Having found
again the son whom he had lost so long in
this world, he took his hand and crossed
with him the threshold of that other, in

which he at least devoutly believed, thereto
spell together their first lesson, which
surely could be no other than a prolongation
of their last lesson in this, namely, a
lesson of love.

And who,' asked James Daily, when he
had sat quietly through such a brief outline
of this sad story as his son Adam thought
fit to give, ' who is now the owner, say
you, of Sodden Fen ?'

Mrs. Apers Smith, undoubtedly,' said
Adam.

Then whilst the tender-hearted women,
the mother and wife, Avere shedding tears
over sorrows with which all might well
sympathize, James Daily got up and
went silently out of the cottage. He was
absolutely unmoved by the simple pathos
of his son's narration, which indeed he had
not understood, having heard the sound
but not the sense of the words that Adam
had spoken, and being perfectly indifferent

to all but the bare facts of the case ; but
Adam's voice had exercised over his
tortured spirit that calming influence which
of old the harp of David was said to have
exercised over Saul's.

QUITE A GENTLEMAN.

H ! Crowsby, do you know I've
had such a fright this morning
!' said Lady Weyland to
her husband, as they met at the luncheon-table,
at the Manor House, one day about
three months after the events last recorded.
I went down to the farm to see Jessie
Apers  I do wish she'd drop the " Smith'
but nothing would persuade her. Well,
she'd gone to the churchyard to carry some
flowers to the grave, I believe ; but that I
didn't know, so I hunted for her all over

the house. Really it would be quite
bearable to live there now that it's all
Jessie's own. You can't think what a
change there is ; the Cupid, and the flycatcher,
and the beaded parrot have all
become tender memories since that dreadful
time when I wasted six precious VN'eeks
of my life in their company. Like '* Mariana
in the moaned oTano-e,"

" From the dark Fen the oxen's low came to her without
hope of change."

I was always saying that over and over to
myself in those dismal days.'

May one venture to inquire who was
the particular '" he " you were sighing for
at that touching period ?' asked her husband,
smiling. ' Was it George Apers, or
did it happen to be me ?'

Why, neither of you, of course, anemone
than I believe it was any particular
he" that Mariana was siodiino; for ; that
was just the dulness of it, that there wasn't

any "lie" at all: that ''he," any "he,"
never came. But Jessie was so good tome
in those days. She really is a very
charming woman, you know, Crowsby, and
would be more so but for that terrible turn
for self-sacrifice which the best women get,
and which makes them marry impossible
men, and attempt all manner of impossible
things which are sure to punish
others as well as themselves in the end.
That kind of woman marries from pity,
because she mistrusts passion ; so she
chooses a cripple, or a very ugly man, ora
poor thing of some sort. That's how the
worst sort of man is apt to get the best
sort of wife, and that's why you've got
such an indifferent one. Xow if you had
only had a beautiful soul in a poor sort of
body, Jessie might have married you ; as it
is, it's quite the other way.*

Sir Crowsby bowed ironic thanks, and
his wife continued :

Although you may not believe it, I
nearly made a mistake of that kind myself
once ; that's how I know so much about it.
I was so awfully angry with you at one
time, and I sympathized so with George
Apers in the loss of myself, that if he'd
only asked me again at the right moment
I should have said '* Yes," out of pity ;
but I saved myself and him, and isn't he
thankful to me now !'

You'll have to discontinue these interesting'
confessions, mv lady, with the
bishop's daughter coming to her new home
at once.'

Oh dear yes, Crowsby ; and I'll ask her
how she likes her husband, just as if I didn't
know anything about him. I wonder
if Jessie will receive them in her widow's
cap. I should say a quarter of a year was
quite long enough to have worn it if she
must put it on at all ; but then, to be sure,
it does suit her uncommonly well. But

that brings me to my fright, which you
haven't had the manners to ask me anything
about. I told you I couldn't find
Jessie when I went to call there this
morning ; but I did find her cap in a corner
of the room : so I put it on, and oh, my
dear Crowsby, though you are so much older
than I am, you really must, please, contrive
to live as Ions;, for it made me look a
perfect fright! Well, just when I was
standing before the drawing-room mirror
with this thing on my head, somebody
came to the door, and there I saw a great
tall, handsome fellow smiling at my image
in the glass. My dear, it was Adam Daily,
once the broken-ribbed boy. He came to
look for sirs. Smith, and he'd got a queer,
legal-looking body with him in the diningroom,
and the whole table was covered with
papers, deeds, and what not. The two
were sitting there working away together.
The legal body had a shape like a shrivelled

roll of 2climent, an intellect which
could find expression only in a well-reasoned
argument, and a soul which I am
sure was contained in a syllogism. That's
not mine.'

Xo, I recognise it perfectly. Vell, and
to what is this preamble the prelude ?'

Why, husband, to Adam Daily. I've
positively fallen in love with him. I wish
he'd save my life over again. If he'd been
then what he is now, I'd have married him
out of gratitude.'

Hullo !'

Yes, I would ; you haven't seen him,
Crowsby.'

Pardon me, my lady ; I walked next
him at ]\lr. Smith's funeral.'

 Oh, at the funeral ; but then at funerals
nobody can be original, any more than they
can at weddings. It's as impossible to
come out in your true colours when you're
smothered in black crape as it is when

VOL. III. 56

you're swathed in white satin. But have
you heard him talk? He has got an educated
manner, and he speaks like a cultivated
creature  understands all one's allusions,
and makes himself so pleasant, yet
not a bit too forward. Moreover, he's got
a sensitive thrill in his voice that touches
your feelings, and I do like having my
feelings stirred up, just as the children like
being; tickled.'

In short, the tiler's son has turned into
a perfect gentleman  is that it?' said Sir
Crowsby, laughing.

 That is just what he is,' said Aurea,
with a little childish frown she had when
she found a difficulty in accounting for her
position. ' Not the same sort of gentleman
that you are, of course.'

But of a superior order, perhaps ?'

I don't know which kind is best,' she
hesitated, still frowning. ' Your manners,
of course, are perfect, my lord and master ;

but then you did warn Mr. Smith against
a certain Lady once when you had scarcely
been introduced to her, and you did say
that he had been '' aniino; for stickleback,

DO '

and had caught a salmon," or some other
such horrible slang ; and Mr. Smith didn't
like it when he heard it, I can assure you.'

You punished me for it long ago,' said
Sir Crowsby, with a ruehil face.

By marrying you, do you mean ? Well,
Adam Daily would never talk like that. I'll
tell you what sort of gentleman Adam Daily
is, Mure continued. ' He's a man who would
never call a young lady by her Christian
name, or possibly even by her initials, when
talking of her behind her back, at bachelors'
dinners, or where not. He's that sort of
gentleman ; and a very good sort it is, too,
whether it thatches on farms or sits in the
House.'

Well, but what did this grand gentleman
say to you in the mow's cap ?'

562

Why, nothing personal, of course. He
only said that he had come to look for Mrs.
Apers Smith  that they had some business
to transact together in the dining-room,
and then he talked about other things.
Crowsby, I am convinced that Jessie is
o;oino; to do something: extraordinary about
that land, and that Adam Daily knows it.
You may depend upon it that she is going
to give it away  to throw it open to all
comers, and to put bathing sheds in the
river, swings for the children in the fields
by the dyke, to keep pigs and poultry in
Diggory's Mill, and co-operative cows down
in the Fifty acre. You may depend upon
it everything modernly Quixotic will be setup
in our midst, and iVdam Daily will be
made the manager of the whole  that's the
only good thing about it.'

There's no good thing about it,' said Sir
Crowsby irritably. ' I have lost a worthy
friend in Mr. Smith  have changed an excellent

Conservative farmer for a Radical
female, about whom m' only comfort is
that she hasn't got a vote. Mr. Smith is
an incalculable loss to me in many ways.'

Crowsby ! why, it's such a comfort those
two poor Mr. Smiths are both dead ! I do
think it was so nice of them both to die
together. That's what you and I must dodo
let us!'

'- With all my heart, Aurea, if you'll let
me begin.'

However hurt Jessie might be to hear
it, you know it's simply true that it must
be very much nicer for her to be there alone
at the farm, with a house that she can make
quite comfortable, and plenty of money to
please herself, instead of having a farmer
for a father-in-law, and his poor drunken
son for a husband.'

 I advise you not to let her hear you say
that, Aurea.'

Well, really, Crowsby, don't you suppose

she'll marry again? I hate second marriages
as a rule, but Henry Smith really
must have been so very nasty, and she really
is so very nice, that I think she ought to
have a second chance of happiness.'

If she is of your mind, she can take
your hero, Adam Daily. I understand he
has been manaoino; the farm for her for the
last three months  ever since my poor old
friend died; and there is not more difference
between their ages than there is between
yours and mine, otherwise expressed.'

Now, Crowsby, please remember,' said
his wife vehemently, you must never say
that again  never! Jessie would mind it
infinitely: much more than what I\"e just
said about her father-in-law and husband
dying both together. That's not a bit the
sort of affection Jessie has for Adam Daily ;
I know her well enough to know that. I
am not sure that I can make you understand
what sort of feeling it is. It's a sort of

sentiment men don't entertain  it's too good
for them. Here and there some old saint,
perhaps, has so loved his disciples, or a
poet has loved his poem, or an artist his
picture or his statue, as Jessie xlpers loves
Adam Daily. He's the child of her spirit,
I suppose  I don't know how to express it
differently. I don't understand that sort of
thing myself, and I don't sympathize with
it. I j)i'efer '' material, to mystic bonds,"
as I once heard sou say of yourself, Crowsby,
and I'd infinitely rather  a million times over
rather  have my little red-haired monkeys
than any children of my imagination or my
soul ; but I can see what it is to Jessie
none the less, and it would be cruel to rob
her of her greatest comfort.'

I've no wish to rob her of any of her
comforts. But really, when a woman has
made one unaccountable marriage, it's reasonable
[to suppose she may be ready to
make a second.'

That's so like a man. Now, that is just
what it is not reasonable to suppose. A
woman who has once wedded "an idea"
will be especially careful to wed a man the
next time; just as a man who has once
espoused '' a cause," if there is such a disinterested
masculine being, will be doubly
certain to marry his schoolgirl cousin the
moment he's set free.'

I didn't know you were such an experienced
little philosopher,' said her husband,
rising from the table.

Yes, Crowsby, isn't it odd ? I really
am, as poor dear papa used to say, so very
much wiser than I look.'

Lady Weyland was right about her
friend's decision with regard to the property
pertaining to Sodden Farm ; she was
wrong in one startling and all-important
particular, which even her lively and inquisitive
curiosity could not have been
expected to surmise. It was true that the

preparations which had struck her in the
farmhouse dining-room bore reference to
the disposal of the Fen ; but to have surmised
Jessie's intentions, she must also
have surmised a conversation which was
taking place in the drawing-room at the
farm whilst she and her husband were
discussing the matter over their luncheon-table
at the Ferry.

Adam Daily was standing in an embrasure
of the window, but his intelligent
countenance owed less to the light Which
fell full upon it than to the clearer light
of intelligence which shone in his bright
true eyes, as he regarded his former instructress.
Jessie, sitting in a low chair
facing him, was in her widow's dress ; but
there was a look of rest after long tossing,
of quietude and certainty after long doubt,
which gave to her air and manner an added
charm for an added grief, just as she had
exchanged the softened sorrow of a repentant

grave for the nameless anguish of an
unknown woe.

Jessie Smith was young still  young
enough and unselfish enough to find in the
years to come compensation for the loss of
personal hopes in the vivid interests and
keen sympathies which she attracted round
her in the world she lived in; strong
enough to replace the starvation of baffled
instinct by the satisfaction of noble enthusiasms;
intelligent enough to take an impartial
outlook upon life, and to find consolation
for the failure of personal aims in identifying
herself with the progress of those leading-ideas
of her time which govern the advance
of the social order. She might fail, she
might die ; her own life might prove a
shipwreck so utter, as to leave no raft
afloat of the goodly vessel on which she
had set sail so hopefully in the morning.
She might see no fulfilment of personal
aims, and but an initiatory accomplishment

even of those wider ends on which she
had anchored her wider hopes; but success
on this side in the end was certain. It
was coming in a future which she might
never see ; but to have had a share in the
accomplishment would be sufficient for
her.

Well, Adam she presently said, looking
up into the young man's beaming face with
a smile, ' have you mastered all the legal
difficulties, and are you prepared with a full
and complete scheme for the transfer of the
eight hundred acres of Sodden Fen to the
inhabitants of the Manor of Slumsby?'

I have received a great deal of instruction,
madam, from the learned lips of our
professional friend as to 'the natural and
proper exercise of the right created by
Diggory Daily's grant," as to " the claim
of the tenants or inhabitants of the Manor
of Slumsby to use the ground " for purposes
of pleasure and profit. I have also

been very attentive to long disquisitions as
to the proof of right supplied by continuous
ancient usaofe. I have trembled lest in the
Common Pleas Division and in the Court of
Appeal the decision might be against them
if their claim could only stand on a
grant," a " title by prescription not being
available for a fluctuating body having no
corporate identity," such as the inhabitants
in this case ; but again I have rejoiced to
believe that in this instance their claim need
not even be proved, since legal proof is
given by " continuous ancient usage." But
why go into all this at all, madam? The
land is your own. Give it them. It
would be an action worthy of you.'

Xo, Adam; it ought to come from you
it must come from you. It was by the
noble heart of your ancestor that the grant
was first imagined; and what a Daily gave,
a Daily must restore.'

That would be very fine,' said Adam,

throwing lack his head. * The very sound
of the words carries me out of myself. But
I should be in the position of a child who
gives away that which is not his own.'

 But it shall be your own  absolute'
your own. What else have I made all these
arrangements for 1 What else have I secured
the attendance of this legal gentleman for?
You are of age. There are the documents
here upon this table, which only await our
signatures.'

Why should you give me this great
happiness, Mrs. Smith ?' the young man
asked with moistening eyes ; ' why should
you bestow upon me a privilege which you
might so rightly keep yourself ?'

If you want another reason than that I
have already given, Adam, I must remind
you of the years you have spent in doing
me the highest service that any human being
could have undertaken; but no such personal
motive is needed.'

It has been the dream of my Hfe !
exclaimed Adam  ' my boyish vision ever
since I heard you speak of my ancestor
that first day in the school ; but, like other
visions, it seemed too beautiful to come
true. I cannot believe it even now: say it
over again, please; and he turned and looked
out of the window, over the Fen, to hide
his emotion.

Jessie, to calm him, replied quietly:

 What would you have me say ? It is
all very simple and business-like. By a
deed of gift, I make over to you the copyright
of Sodden Fen, to your unrestricted
use or disposal. These legal forms once
completed, you are absolute master of
Sodden Fen, to hold or dispose of, give or
bequeath, as you choose. I claim no
declaration of your intentions.'

You know my intentions.'

 Let us suppose for a moment that I
do not know them. You are absolutely

free ; my gift is unfettered by conditions.'


Why insist upon that, when I know
that you mean to give me the greatest joy
that the earth holds for me, the fulfilment
of my most glorious dreams ?'

I give you the power to do that which
I should delight to do myself, because I
hold you, and not myself, to be the proper
person to have the privilege

I accept ! I accept !' cried Adam,
turning round eagerly. ' Say no more,
dear lady! Let me call your lawyer in; let
us see these documents. I thank you. Ko
more words are possible between us. I
know not how to wait; my whole life now
seems but to have been waiting for this
instant.'

Nevertheless, you must stop a moment
longer, Adam. I must have you consider
your own future prospects. When all this
is done, what are you going to live upon ?

You will lose your work here. You gave
up a promising and-well-jDaid post in
Australia to bring my poor wanderer
home. I shall have no further need of your
services, since I have deducted your salary
from the profits of the land. I shall
have this house and garden, and besides
my own private income, my father-in-law's
very considerable savings, the fruits of his
long and lonely years ; my sacrifice is easy.
But the land brings in large yearly profits;
you must consider what you mean to do
about these. The question may be more
complicated than you see.'

Assuredly I must consider it ; but it
would be a poor thing indeed, to give the
uncultivated Fen and to reserve the grassland,
to give the water and to grasp the
osiers that grow in it. Xo, no; depend
upon it, where there are only one set of
interests to serve, short work can be made
even of lawyer's documents ; it's when a

man is playing double that the game is
complicated. You will see it will all be
straightforward enough, madam. We will
have cricket-grounds and allotments, free
schools and a library, club-rooms for the
men, warehouses and drying-grounds for
the women ; we will have a committee of
management chosen by the villagers themselves
 they may put me on it if they choose
and depend upon it, as fast as the money
comes in we shall keep it employed. Why,
we shall be the richest, and we ought to bethe
happiest, village community in the
land!'

And you, what shall you do ?'

Work, of course,' replied Adam; ' work
with my own two hands for my living, and
stay here and see how things prosper.'

Dear Adam,' said Jessie, smiling in
sympathetic admiration at the unbounded
enthusiasm which it cost her much to discover
that she could not equally share, * I

VOL. III. 57

doubt if such dreams have ever been fully
realized, although they have been entertained
in the brains of philanthropists and philosophers
who had nothing of their own but
their thoughts to give, and probably would
not have given it if they had had it.'

Possibly not, if they had not hands as
well as heads,' said Adam laughingly,
stretching forth his strong brave arms.

No,' thought Jessie, as he turned towards
the table and began eagerly fingering
the documents upon it; ' it takes a Avhole
complete man for such a complete sacrifice,
that's just it.' But she had another
question to put to him, a question which
she knew would dash even his triumphant
joy with doubt, and so she had withheld it
hitherto : * But what about your father
Adam ?'

Adam dropped the paper that he held;
his whole countenance changed in an
instant.

 My father ! Ah ! for the moment I had
forgotten, in my great joy : and yet I have
been thinking of little else night and day
of late. Since you have asked me, I must
tell you that my grandmother says I seem
to have some influence over him, just from
my youth and strength perhaps. She
thinks that in time he might come to depend
upon me. Hitherto, that has been my
chief object in remaining here, to devote
myself to the alleviation of his misery and
of my mother's anxieties. But I cannot
let the cloud which hangs over his life
cover mine also, and with mine all the other
lives of these people, which, by your kind
help, might be brightened. If I am to
stretch out a helping hand to him under
his load of depression, my own must be
free from the fetters that bind him.'

You intend to take your own course,
then, in the matter of the Fen ?'

Undoubtedly. My resolution with 



gard to the Fen is unalterably fixed. You
hand it over to me ; I hand it on to the
people, in obedience to my sense of right.
This one thing he must accept, in fulfilment
of a claim higher than this own ; for he, in
fact, has none. After that, no sacrifice on my
part shall be wanting to prove my love and
duty to him. I should be thankful, indeed,
if I could help to raise him out of the depths
of depression to some fresh height of feeling.
My mother, too, has lost all her simple
serenity since I went away, and has become
a poor frightened creature.'

Alas, Adam ! what will he care for the
rest ?'

But Adam's eyes were blinded by the
bright light of hope, and he replied :

I have never lost heart in all my life,
and life has been so hard on him. Out of
this beautiful gift of yours, madam, I cannot
help believing that some pleasure must
surely come to him as well as to others in

the end. In time may lie not come to
rejoice in the gift, even though sharing
the land with others, which alone can be his
portion in it ?'

Jessie smiled, but shook her head sadly.

You have probably heard, Mrs. Smith,
how long ago he took a solemn oath never
to set foot upon the Fen until it was restored
to his family. In order to save him the
pain and misery of a conflict of will with
myself in the matter, will it not be better
that this arrangement of ours should not be
mentioned until all my preparations are
complete  in short, until the thing is
actually done and the ground ready to be
thrown open to the people ? It will be
easier for him to accept the inevitable ; to
acquiesce in it beforehand would be impossible
to him. The day that the land is
thrown open to all, I should like his feet to
be the first to cross Diggory's Dyke and to
take possession of the Fen.'

I fully agree with you said Jessie ;
 but it is a dark cloud on an otherwise
bright horizon.'

Yet even whilst she spoke, something of
his own hopefulness began to influence her.
There was in the young man's soul chords
of power which reassured her, and communicated
to her insensibly the brave
fearlessness by which he was inspired ; for
the great charm of Adam's rare, true nature
lay in the mixture of tenderness and self-reliance
which formed the basis of his
character.

Now, when can all this paper-work be
done ?' he said, changing the subject with
evident purpose.  Shall we  the day
of your brother's return from his wedding-tour
for the ceremony, such as it may be,
of throwing open the land to the people ?
It will be a marked day in the place. Most
of the villagers will be taking a holiday,
preparing a reception for your brother and

his bride ; and there will be a sort of fitness
in the selection of that day, as associating
the happiness of your own family with the
joyful event of the .llage/

It's a good thought, Adam, pleasantly
expressed.'

It will be the most joyful day of my
life,' said Adam fervently ; ' and for it I
shall be indebted to you. my first, best
friend.'

Even whilst he spoke, the rays of the
setting sun, which, lingering in a golden
glory on the edge of the Fen, had hitherto
lit up his expressive countenance, were
suddenly obscured, and left him surrounded
by shadow as dark as that which
had long enwrapt her, and Jessie shivered
with sudden cold.

We shall have done our work together,'
she said, rising, in a voice tremulous with
rushed tears ; and holding out both
hands to him, he grasped them with the

tender, chivalrous respect which distinguished
him in all his intercourse with her.

Once a peasant boy, trailing his thatcher's
hook in the dust, confused by thoughts
which he could not beat out, he stood
before her now a man of talent and of
action, conspicuous above others by his
force and power, true of heart and firm of
purpose ; and seeing the beauty of his
countenance expressive of inner moral
rectitude and of dominance of intellect, she
was dumb before the yet greater beauty of
his soul.

*" So long," ' he said, quoting in his thrilling
voice,' ' as our civilization is essentially
one of property, of fences, of exclusiveness,
it will be mocked by delusions ; our riches
will leave us sick; there will be bitterness
in our laughter, and our wine will burn our
mouth. Only that good profits us which we
can taste with all doors open, and which
serves all men." '

Hand-inland, they met and worshipped
for an instant in the temple of one grand
idea ; then parted, as though they 21'ted
not.

A GARDEN OF PLEASURE.

THIN mist was driving across
the Fen, whilst above, dark masses
of purple cloud bespoke the
approach of heavy rain. Patches of water
standing in the hollows told of recent
showers, whilst on the rising ground, which
stood prominently out beside the poplars,
the cattle were crowded for shelter. Across
the level landscape, the eye was dazzled by
sheets of golden charlock in full blossom,
diversified by the hues of many a sweeter
flower. In the distance might be seen the

tower of Cutthorpe Church, the shining red-tiled
chimneys of the factory, and the gabled
roofs of the houses ; whilst the monotony
of the foreground was broken by the picturesque
outline of Diggory's Mill, with the
coloured patches of blue and red still visible
in the guiding-wheel. Flowering water-weeds,
the purple and yellow loosestrife,
and the dark brown heads of the rushes,
showed the damp spots in the Fen ; but
large tracts which had been covered with
sedge when Adam Daily went to Australia,
were now warm, breezy cornfields, stretching
away to the tranquil river, the water of
which, defiled by the outflow from Cut-thorpe
factory and stirred by the passage of
barges, was far less transparent than that of
the lily-fringed dyke which skirted the edge
of the Fen nearest to Slumsby village.
Sodden Fen, ujoon this autumn morning,
might well be taken for a garden of fragrance
and repose  of solitude also, for no

sound might be heard save the voices of
the thrushes and blackbirds announcing the
approach, of rain.

One man, and one only, was visible,
standing on the extreme verge of the Fen
by the margin of Diggory's Dyke. He had
been labouring alone, and now he was resting
with his hand on the axe which his
powerful arm had been wielding from the
break of early dawn. At length the gates
which had shut in the Fen were down. He
had determined to borrow no help for his
task, but to accomplish it all by himself,
and the strength of an Australian fencer i'aA/mc
never was put to more congenial service.
His work ended, he stood erect, intoxicating'
his lungs with draughts of revivifying air.
Each inspiration seemed to fill him with
new life, each expiration to relieve his heart
of some burden it had carried until his work
was accomplished. His task was ended
now, and he was waiting  ah, for what?

Just for that slouching figure, with trembling
gait, which, crossing the bridge from
the village, pauses an instant on the verge
of the farm-lands with hand upraised, as
though to register or renounce some vow
inaudibly spoken. Throwing down the axe,
Adam advanced with hands outstretched to
meet his father.

Come on, father ; let yours be, as
it should, the first step to enter the
Fen.'

James Daily was struggling with some
frightful excitement. His lips moved convulsively,
but no sound escaped them ;
every portion of his lean fi\ame shook with
suppressed agitation.

Is it true ?' he cried at last, in a hoarse,
loud voice. ' Is it true what I heard at
my work just now  tell me before I set
foot on the Fen  that it's ours, ours at
length; that that woman has made you
the master ? Speak, say ! Speak louder,

for I cannot hear your voice. There's a
sound in my ears like the rolling of thunder,
nearer than any thunder I ever heard. Say,
boy, does she love you well enough for that ?
Xo doubt you're fit for any woman's choice,
and you would make her a better mate
than her first drunken master ; but you're
deep, you're deep  you've kept your secret.
You're cleverer than your father. Why
didn't ye trust me, lad ? you might ha'
trusted your own father.'

A deep flush of righteous indignation
burnt in Adam's cheek, even through the
dye of wind and weather. He staggered
as though he had received his father's
doubled fist in the eyes ; whatever he had
expected, it had not been this  this hideous
mockery of misconception. For a moment
he was silent, then with a tremendous effort
at self-control, he replied :

It is true that you are welcome on the
Fen, father ; but little else is true that you

j>

may have heard, and nothing probably
that you can guess. The rest is grossly
false; is an insult to the noblest woman
that ever breathed.'

James Daily heard nothing but that the
ground was freely his to enter. He stumbled
forward blindly, weighted by a heavy gun
which he carried ; the same gun, indeed,
which when last borne over those lands had
been in the hands of poor Henry Smith.
How came he into possession of that gun?
That was what Adam wondered ; the
answer was easy enough. Bob Daily, who
as a boy had appropriated the old housekeeper's
drying-poles, as a man had been
unable to recollect Mr. Apers's rights of
actual property in the fowling-piece which
he, Bob, had furtively cleaned for so many
years, and had freely shot with during his
master's absence. This mornings, meanings
to take it out for the last time before Mr
Apers's return, he had carelessly deposited

it, loaded, in his father's cottage ; there
James Daily had found it, and, impelled by
some obscure motive, had snatched it upon
learning the wildly improbable story of
Adam's succession to the Fen. It might
be that he regarded it as a symbol of
ownership, flattering himself that now at
last he would walk as a master, carrying
his gun over the acres of the Sodden estate ;
or that in his distracted brain some sense
of danger, of attack or defence, associated
itself with his first entry upon ground so
long tenanted by those whom he had considered
as his bitterest enemies.

That Sodden Fen was actually Adam's,
that for some strangely incomprehensible
reason, to be grossly misconstrued in order
to be comprehended, Mrs. Apers Smith
had transferred her rights to the young
man  that was what James Daily had understood
: With the result that he stumbled
with headlong speed to the Dyke, ready

almost to prostrate himself at Adam's feet,
distraught with a wild fierce triumph,
drunk with a blind and jealous joy. It
was his at last ; his oath cancelled ; all
his rights vindicated ; all his thoughts,
his life, his nature, in one instant shaken
and confounded. It was as though the
ground had opened beneath his feet that
autumn morning, and in the shock of the
earthquake all his past had been swallowed
up. Who and where and what he was,
what he said, he knew no more than a
man might know who, falling from some
giddy height, lights standing on his feet,
alive, indeed, and with all his bones unbroken,
but neither himself nor any other,
living neither in the world which he once
knew, nor in that in which he now so
unaccountably finds himself One notion,
and one only, as yet his confused brain
had mastered. The land was his son's,
and therefore his. The property was re-vol.
III. 58

stored to the Dailyss. A Dailyss's name was
that of the master. To burn the reality
into his disordered brain, he strove to
shoulder the gun in a masterful fashion,
and to measure his stride across the eight
hundred acres ; but at the first step he
stumbled over a gate, lifted off its hinges
and laid flat on the watery ground. He
nearly fell, but recovered himself, and gazed
in mute inquiry at Adam. With a calm
voice, but with a tremendous effort, his
heart beating against his ribs, Adam spoke :

Yes, father ; the gates are down. Weare
going to share the Fen with our neighbours.
Listen to me, and try to understand.
We should be thieves and robbers if
we kept this land to ourselves ; it is not ours
to keep. Our ancestor made it a grant
to the village ; it is my duty to restore it.'

James Daily did not understand ; the
words did not reach his intelligence but
they arrested his footsteps.

Speak louder !' he cried; 'the storm is
ringing in my ears ;' and as he spoke the
wind, suddenly rising, swept the Fen and
bowed the poplars over their heads.

Father, the gates are all down,' Adam
repeated, covering the bewildered man with
his steady glance ; ' we are going to share
the land with our neighbours.'

Whose is it ? Is it yours ?' James
Daily demanded, in a voice so strangely
changed that Adam started.

It was mine, but is now common
to all.'

You're going to let the neighbours into
keep the holiday? good, good. Fetch
them all; let them all come and learn who's
the master! Go and call them all. I'd
have them all here. Where's that mason
that spoke of "a carrion crow"? let him
come and face James Daily now, on his
own land, on his ovn ground. Eight, right,
my boy ! let's have them all !'

582

But even in his words of triumph there
was an anxious and uncertain note of
dread.

Stay, it belongs to them all by right,
to enter as freely as they choose

What have you done ? Say it once
more, and say it plainly; I can hear you
now.'

As he spoke, James Daily rested the
gun and stood facing his son. Then in
clear vibrating tones, wherein a great pity
and swelling tenderness tempered the ring of
power, Adam Daily replied -just so clear
and trumpet-tongued had been the voice of
his ancestor when men said of him that
he could send his words farther across a
reed-bed in a howling storm than another
man in a windless noon ' :

I have restored to the inhabitants of the
Manor of Slumsb} the land which Diggory
Daily bequeathed to them upon his dying
day, when they laid him low in this same

earth, in the walls of this same Dyke by
which we stand

You have done that ?'
I have.'

Is it done past undoing ?'
Adam bowed his head, bare now, for he
had flung his hat upon the ground, as men
bare the head in presence of the sanctities
of life.

You mean to stick to it ?'
I do.'

James Daily raised and levelled the gun
full in the steadfast eyes that fronted his;
but in the old muzzle-loading flint-lock
there was an appreciable pause before the
spark caught the priming in the pan, a pause
too brief for briefest action, long enough for
the death-throes of a hope unquenched till
then. As Adam Daily fell, the shot passed
through his body.

By that pause of mortal anguish, waiting
for his doom from the hands of the father

whom he yearned to save, Adam Daily's
heart was broken ; no need of any deadlier
wound than the wound of love which
reached him ere he died, sinking from
sight beneath the flowers which strewed
the surface of Diggory's Dyke.

An hour later, men, women and children
hastened to the spot, attracted by the reports
which were current in the village, that
Adam was taking possession of the Fen,
and that the gates were down. Foremost
among them came Susan Daily and the old
grandmother, each with a child on her arm.
Jessie Smith was down at the Vicarage,
preparing for her brother's arrival, and
knew nothing of all this. In place of the
gates which lay at his feet, James Daily
was guarding the Fen, pacing up and down
like a sentry, his gun loaded and levelled
at all comers in defence of the land believed
by him now to be his. The women and
children, scared by Daily's threatening attitude,

fled in terror, all save his old mother,
who, wringing her hands, summoned the
fathers and brothers to her assistance. The
wretched man, whom they mastered and
disarmed, was then and ever after a hopeless
maniac. They asked him of his son;
he gave them no answer, but the answer
was not far to seek. The hat which he had
thrown down and the axe which he had
wrought with still lay by the margin of the
Dyke. Lifting their dripping burden
tenderly, they bore it back to the unhappy
mother's cottage, up the narrow garden -
path, past the rose-trees which he had
planted. And as they crossed the threshold
the wedding-bells rang out a joyful welcome
home.

So died Adam Daily; but not before his
work was done, and the gift which his
ancestor had willed had been duly ratified
by him. In earnest recognition of the
deed, grateful hands laid his goodly form

beneath the chancel floor in Cutthorpe
Church, in the grave which had received the
bones of his ancestor; but when they sought
to carve a fresh inscription on the ancient
cross, no fitter one occurred to that best
friend who wept beside the stone, than the
old words which he had wetted with his
tears so many years before :

Hie expiravit pro populo mortuus. '

Only, mindful of his own saying as a
boy, she bade them cut in plainest English
below the former inscription :

Here lies one who died for the people,'

Latin for the ancient martyr, English for
the modern hero. So that in days to come,
on holidays in Slumsby, when at Christmas-tide
or on harvest-homes the villagers, forsaking
their recreations or their profitable
labours on the land, eight hundred goodly
acres, which he had made their own, yet
turn their steps in grateful commemoration

to St. Stephen's Church, every child
that lays its tribute of leaves, or corn, or
flowers upon the tomb, may read and tell
of him who, like his ancestor, died to
purchase for the thankful folk, the noble
gift of Sodden Fen.

I call your people's ground ''Aceldama," '
the Bishop's daughter said, standing in the
farmhouse window, and looking out across
the Fen.

Nay, but,' her husband answered, ' if by
the blood shed there that field was cursed,
with the life given here this has been doubly
blessed.'

And where added her sister-in-law, ' in
all the land will you find a higher consecration
? How mil you teach men to recognise
the sanctities of daily life, so long as by
screening off the sacred you create the
profane? Where is the noble idea in Art,
in Trade, in Science, or Philanthropy, which

has become established fact yet, without its
innocent victims and its willing martyrs?'

This is that noble army whose praise
unceasingly resounds in the truth of their
sad deaths and sadder lives. Martyrs of
the desk and of the engine, martyrs of the
trowel and of the sword, martyrs of the
home and of the affections, no less than
those crowned heroes, the victims of the faggot
and the stake. This is that noble army
which unceasingly praises the Lord, in no
little Holy of its own creation wherein it
seeks to confine one ray of the Eternal
light for its own illumination, but whose
Temple is the Universe, and whose voice
sweeping down the ages is eternal as the
voice of the wind.

tip: pend.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD AND LONDON.

a., V. it Co.

THE

TEMPLE BAR MAGAZINE.

Who does not welcome " Temple Bar." 'john Bull.

PRICE ONE Shilling.

Its uni tibi

VOL 00.

ioiLdim laaznie Ir Tutu and Country ledeis. rL

NO. 000 LIt!

i-ONDON :

 RICHARD Bentley &. SON, New 80RHNGT0N ST.,W. fc

Publishers IN CROIRAPY TO HER Majesty THE QUEEN.

" Temple Bar " is sparkling and brilliant. It might command a constituency
by its fiction alone, but it takes so much care of its more solid matter that, if there
were no stories at all, there is enough to interest the rdidr. 'english Independent.

A Magazine for the Million.'  Standard.

RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON.
